Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


mmi 


HARVARD  LAW  SCHOOL 
LIBRARY 


V 


I 


THE   RECORDS   OF   THE   FEDERAL 
CONVENTION   OF    1787 


Volume  III 


THE   RECORDS 


OF  THE 


FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  1787 


EDITED  BY 

MAX    FARRAND 

PROFESSOR  OF  HISTORY  IN  TALE  UNIVERSITY 


Volume  III 


*• 


NEW    haven:    YALE    UNIVERSITY    PRESS  i 

LONDON:    HENRY    FROWDE 
OXFORD    UNIVERSITY    PRESS  '  f  '-^ 


/ 


/ 


MCMXI  ^       ^  -i 


i 


s 


I 


'  1 


Copyright,  iQn,  by 
Yale  Uinv«»iiTT  Pmm 


OCT  13  1917 


Tki  Plimpton  Pnss  Norwood  Mmss.  U.S^. 


APPENDIX  A 

SUPPLEMENTARY  RECORDS  OF   PROCEEDINGS   IN 

CONVENTION 


Copyright,  iQH,  h 
Yale  Umivbmitt  Puss 


OCT  1  3  1917 


Ttu  Plimpum  Pms  Norwood  Mmss.  V^^. 


APPENDIX  A 

SUPPLEMENTARY  RECORDS  OF   PROCEEDINGS   IN 

CONVENTION 


(CONTENTS 


I 
II 

III 

IV 

V 

VI 

Wla 

VII 

VIII 

IX 

X 

XI 

XII 

XIII 

Xllla 

XIV 

XV 

XVI 

XVII 

XVIII 

XIX 

XlXa 

XX 

XXI 

XXII 

XXIII 

XXIV 

XXV 

XXVI 

XXVII 

XXVIII 

XXIX 

XXX 

XXXI 


Resolution  of  Congress,  February  21,  1787. 
Governor  to  Naval  Officers  of  North  Carolina, 

March  i. 
Otto  to  Montmorin,  April  10, 
Caswell  to  Martin,  April  11, 
Resolution  of  Congress,  April  23, 
Jackson  to  Washington,  April  24, 
IngersoU  to  Johnson,  April  28, 
Several  Gentlemen  of  Rhode  Island  to  Chairman 

of  Convention,  May  11, 
Washington's  Diary,  May  14-15, 
Madison  to  Jefferson,  May  15, 
Washington's  Diary,  May  16-17, 
Franklin  to  Price,  May  18, 
Franklin  to  Jordan,  May  18, 
Washington's  Diary,  May  18-19, 
Pennsylvania  Journal,  May  19, 
Washington  to  Lee,  May  20, 
Mason  to  his  Son,  May  20, 
Mason  to  Lee,  May  21, 
Read  to  Dickinson,  May  21, 
Washington's  Diary,  May  21-24, 
Grayson  to  Madison,  May  24, 
King  to  Wadsworth,  May  24, 
Washington's  Diary,  May  25, 
Madison  to  Pendleton,  May  27, 
Madison  to  his  Father,  May  27, 
Mason  to  his  Son,  May  27, 
Randolph  to  Randolph,  May  27, 
Washington's  Diary,  May  28, 
Blount  to  Caswell,  May  28, 
Grayson  to  Monroe,  May  29, 
Knox  to  Washington,  May  29, 
Davie  to  Iredell,  May  30, 
Washington  to  Jefferson,  May  30, 
Washington's  Diary,  May  30-June  i, 

3 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


XXXII 

XXXIII 

XXXIV 

XXXV 

XXXVa 

XXXVI 

XXXVII 

XXXVIII 

XXXVIIIa 

XXXIX 

XL 

XLI 

XLII 

XLIII 

XLIV 

XLV 

XLVI 

XLVII 

XLVIII 

XLIX 

L 

LI 

LII 

LIII 

Ulla 

LIV 

LV 

LVI 

LVII 

LVIII 

LIX 

LX 

LXI 

LXII 

LXIII 

LXIV 

LXV 

LXVtf 

LXVI 

LXVII 

LXVIII 

LXIX 


Mason  to  his  Son,  June  i,  1787. 

Washington's  Diary,  June  2, 

Rush  to  Price,  June  2, 

Wadsworth  to  King,  June  3, 

Washington's  Diary,  June  4, 

Washington  to  La  Fayette,  June  6, 

Madison  to  Jefferson,  June  6, 

Randolph  to  Randolph,  June  6| 

Madison  to  Short,  June  6, 

Brearley  to  Dayton,  June  9, 

Carrington  to  Jefferson,  June  9, 

Otto  to  Montmorin,  June  10, 

Gerry  to  Monroe,  June  11, 

Spaight  to  Caswell,  June  12, 

North  Carolina  Delegates  to  Caswell,  June  14, 

Vamum  to  Washington,  June  18, 

Dane  to  King,  June  19, 

Randolph  to  Randolph,  June  21, 

Morris  to  his  Sons,  June  25, 

Johnson  to  his  Son,  June  27, 

Mason  to  Randolph,  June  30, 

Washington  to  Stuart,  July  i, 

Governor  to  North  Carolina  Delegates,  July  i, 

Bond  to  Carmarthen,  July  2, 

Washington's  Diary,  July  2, 

Hamilton  to  Washington,  July  3, 

Spaight  to  Iredell,  July  3, 

Dane  to  King,  July  5, 

Williamson  to  Iredell,  July  8, 

Randolph's    Suggestion   for   Conciliating  Small 

States,  July  10, 
Washington  to  Hamilton,  July  10, 
Blount  to  Caswell,  July  10, 
Randolph  to  Randolph,  July  12, 
Manasseh  Cutler:  Journal,  July  13, 

Wythe  to ,  July  16, 

Davie  to  Iredell,  July  17, 
Madison  to  Jefferson,  July  18, 
Pennsylvania  Packet,  July  19, 
Williamson  to  Iredell,  July  22, 
Franklin  to  Jones,  July  22, 
Jay  to  Washington,  July  25, 
Otto  to  Montmorin,  July  25, 


APPENDIX  A,  CONTENTS 


LXX 
LXXI 

LXXII 

LXXIII 

LXXIV 

LXXV 

LXXVI 

LXXVIa 

LXXVII 

LXXVIII 

LXXIX 

LXXX 

LXXXI 

LXXXII 

LXXXIII 

LXXXIIItf 

LXXXIV 

LXXXV 

LXXXVI 

LXXXVII 

LXXXVIII 

LXXXIX 

XC 

XCI 

XCII 

XCIII 

XCIV 

XClVa 

XCV 

XCVI 

XCVII 

XCVIII 

XCIX 

c 

CI 
CII 

cm 

CIV 

cv 

CVI 

evil 

CVIII 


Caswell  to  Spaight,  July  26,  1787. 

Hamilton  to  Auldjo,  July  26, 

Martin  to  Caswell,  July  27, 

Washington's  Diary,  July  27, 

Monroe  to  Jefferson,  July  27, 

Madison  to  his  Father,  July  28, 

Gilman  to  Gilman,  July  31, 

Butler  to  Butler,  August  i, 

McClurg  to  Madison,  August  5, 

Washington's  Diary,  August  6, 

Davie  to  Iredell,  August  6, 

North  Carolina  Delegates  to  Governor,  August  7, 

Spaight  to  Iredell,  August  12, 

Madison  to  his  Father,  August  12, 

Gerry  to  Warren,  August  13, 

Pennsylvania  Herald,  August  15, 

Washington  to  LaFayette,  August  15, 

Washington  to  Knox,  August  19, 

Hamilton  to  King,  August  20, 

Williamson  to  Caswell,  August  20, 

Blount  to  Caswell,  August  20, 

Martin  to  Caswell,  August  20, 

Brearley  to  Paterson,  August  21, 

McClurg  to  Madison,  August  22, 

Pennsylvania  Journal,  August  22, 

Randolph  to  Lieutenant  Governor  of  Virginia, 

August  22, 
Davie  to  Caswell,  August  23, 
Pennsylvania  Packet,  August  23, 
Stiles's  Diary,  August  27, 
Hamilton  to  King,  August  28, 
Gorham  to  Strong,  August  29, 
Jefferson  to  Adams,  August  30, 
Washington  to  Jay,  September  2, 
Randolph  to  Randolph,  September  2, 
Madison  to  his  Father,  September  4, 
Collins  to  St.  Clair,  September  4, 
Madison  to  Jefferson,  September  6, 
Phillips  to  the  Convention,  September  7, 
Dayton  to  Dayton,  September  9, 
Jones  to  Madison,  September  13, 
Sydney  to  Lord  Dorchester,  September  14, 
Dickinson  to  Read,  September  15, 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


^ 


CIX 

ex 

CXI 

CXIa 

CXII 

CXIII 

CXIV 

CXV 

CXVI 

CXVII 

CXVIII 

CXIX 

cxx 

CXXI 

CXXII 

CXXIII 

CXXIV 

cxxv 

CXXVI 

CXXVIa 

CXXVII 

CXXVIII 

CXXIX 

cxxx 

CXXXI 

CXXXII 
CXXXIII 
CXXXIV 

cxxxv 

cxxxvi 

cxxxvii 

CXXXVIItf 

CXXXVIII 

CXXXIX 

CXL 

CXLI 

CXLII 

CXLIII 

CXLIV 


Washington's  Diary,  September  15,  1787. 
Washington's  Diary,  September  17, 
Jackson  to  Washington,  September  17, 
Pennsylvania  Herald,  September  18, 
Gilman  to  Sullivan,  September  18, 
Gilman  to  Gilman,  September  18, 
Randolph  to  Randolph,  September  18, 
North  Carolina  Delegates  to  Governor,  Septem- 
ber 18, 
McHenry:  Anecdotes. 
Anecdote:  Morris  and  Washington. 
Pierce:  Anecdote. 

Pierce:  Character  Sketches  of  Delegates. 
Franklin  to  Mrs.  Mecom,  September  20, 
Madison  to  Pendleton,  September  20, 
Carrington  to  Madison,  September  23, 
Sherman  and  Ellsworth  to  Governor  of  Con- 
necticut, September  26, 
Pierce  to  Tucker,  September  28, 
Wilson:    Address  to  Citizens    of  Philadelphia, 

October  6, 
Mason  to  Washington,  October  7, 
Butler  to  Butler,  October  8, 
Washington  to  Humphreys,  October  10, 
Letter  to  Jefferson,  October  11, 
Pinckney:  Observations  on  Plan  of  Government. 
Madison  to  Washington,  October  14, 
Randolph  to  Speaker  of  the  Virginia  House  of 

Delegates,  October  16, 
Washington  to  Stuart,  October  17, 
Gerry  to  Massachusetts  Legislature,  October  18, 
Madison  to  Washington,  October  18, 
Washington  to  Madison,  October  22, 
Franklin  to  Grand,  October  22, 
Madison  to  Jefferson,  October  24, 
Madison  to  Short,  October  24, 
Madison  to  Pendleton,  October  28, 
Ellsworth:  A  Landholder.     (November  5,) 
Washington  to  Mrs.  Graham,  November  16, 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  November  23, 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  November  24, 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  November  26, 
Ellsworth:  The  Landholder.     (November  26,) 


r 


CXLV 

CXLVI 

CXLVIa 

CXLVIi 

CXLVII 

CXLVIII 

CXLIX 

CL 

CLI 

CLII 

CLIII 

CLIV 

CLV 

CLVI 

CLVII 

CLVIII 

CLIX 

CLX 

CLXI 

CLXII 

CLXIII 

CLXIV 

CLXV 

CLXVI 

CLXVII 

CLXVIII 

CLXIX 

CLXX 

CLXXI 

CLXXII 
CLXXIII 

CLXXIV 

CLXXV 

CLXXVI 

CLXXVII 

CLXXVIII 

CLXXIX 
CLXXX 


APPENDIX  A,    CONTENTS  7 

Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  November  28, 1787. 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  November  28, 
McHenry  before  Maryland  House  of  Delegates,  Novem- 
ber 29, 
Martin  before  Maryland  House  of  Delegates,  Novem- 
ber 29, 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  November  30, 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  December  3, 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  December  4, 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  December  7, 
Ellsworth:  The  Landholder.     (December  10,) 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  December  11, 
Wilson  in  Pennsylvania  Convention,  December  11, 
Ellsworth:  The  Landholder.     (December  17,) 
Madison  to  Washington,  December  20, 
Stiles's  Diary,  December  21, 
Ellsworth:  The  Landholder.     December  24, 
Martin's  Genuine  Information,  December  28, 
Otto  to  Montmorin.     Character  Sketches. 
Williamson:    On  New  Plan  of  Government,  1788. 
Hamilton:  The  Federalist,  No.  XXXHL  (January  3,) 
Gerry:   Reply  to  A  Landholder,  L     (January  5,) 
Ellsworth  in  Connecticut  Convention,  January  7, 
Washington  to  Randolph,  January  8, 
R.  Morris  to  a  Friend,  January, 

Madison:  The  Federalist, No.  XXXVU.   (January  11,) 
Yates  and  Lansing  to  Governor  of  New  York. 
Strong  in  Massachusetts  Convention,  January  15, 
Strong  in  Massachusetts  Convention,  January  16, 
Debate  in  South  Carolina  Legislature,  January  16, 
C.  C.  Pinckney  in  South  Carolina  House  of  Representa- 
tives, January  17, 
King  in  Massachusetts  Convention,  January  17, 
C.  C.  Pinckney  in  South  Carolina  House  of  Represen- 
tatives, January  18, 
Madison:  The  Federalist,  No.  XL.    (January  18,) 
Martinis  Defense  of  Gerry.    January  18, 
Strong  in  Massachusetts  Convention,  January  18, 
Proceedings  in  Massachusetts  Convention,  January  19, 
King  and  Strong  in  Massachusetts  Convention,  Janu- 
ary 19, 
Belknap  to  Hazard,  January  20, 
Lincoln  to  Washington,  January  20, 


8 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


CLXXXI 

CLXXXII 

CLXXXIII 

CLXXXIV 

CLXXXV 

CLXXXVI 

CLXXXVII 

CLXXXVIII 

CLXXXIX 

CXC 

CXCI 

CXCII 

CXCIII 

CXCIV 

cxcv 

CXCVI 

CXCVII 

CXCVIII 

CXCIX 

cc 

CCa 
CCI 

ecu 

CCIII 
CCIV 

ccv 

CCVI 

CCVII 

CCVIII 

CCIX 

CCX 

CCXI 

CCXII 

CCXIII 

CCXIV 

CCXV 

CCXVI 

CCXVII 

CCXVIII 


Gerry  to  Vice  President  of  Massachusetts  G)n- 

vention,  January  21,  1788. 
King    in    Massachusetts    Convention,   January 

King  in  Massachusetts  Convention,  January  24, 
King  in  Massachusetts  Convention,  January  28, 
L.  Martin  to  Deye,  January  29, 
Washington  to  La  Fayette,  February  7, 
Franklin  to  Le  Veillard,  February  17, 
Madison:  The  Federalist,  No.  LXII. 
Ellsworth:  The  Landholder,  X.     (February  29,) 
Martin's  Reply  to  The  Landholder,  March  3, 
Martin's  Reply  to  The  Landholder,  March  14, 
Martin's  Reply  to  The  Landholder,  March  19, 
Martin's  Letter  to   the  Citizens  of  Maryland, 

March  25, 
Nicholas  to  Madison,  April  5, 
Franklin  to  Editor  of  Federal  Gazette,  April  8, 
Madison  to  Randolph,  April  10, 
Franklin  to  LeVeiUard,  April  22, 
Washington  to  La  Fayette,  April  28, 
Gerry:  Reply  to  a  Landholder,  II,  April  30, 
Pinckney:    Letter  in   State   Gazette  of  South 

Carolina,  May  2, 
Butler  to  Butler,  May  5, 
Dickinson:  Letters  of  Fabius,  May, 
Mason  to  Jefferson,  May  26, 
Carroll  to  Madison,  May  28, 
Williamson  to  Madison,  June  2, 


Randolph 
Randolph 
Randolph 
Randolph 


in  Virginia  Convention,  June  4, 
in  Virginia  Convention,  June  6, 
in  Virginia  Convention,  June  7, 
in  Virginia  Convention,  June  10, 
Madison  in  Virginia  Convention,  June  12, 
Debate  in  Virginia  Convention,  June  14, 
Daniel  Carroll:  Notes  and  Correspondence. 
Debate  in  Virginia  Convention,  June  17, 
Madison  in  Virginia  Convention,  June  18, 
Debate  in  Virginia  Convention,  June  19, 
Madison  in  Virginia  Convention,  June  20, 
Hamilton  in  New  York  Convention,  June  20, 
Debate  in  Virginia  Convention,  June  21, 
Debate  in  New  York  Convention,  June  23, 


APPENDIX  A,   CONTENTS 


CCXDC 

CCXX 

CCXXI 

CCXXII 

CCXXIII 

CCXXIV 

ccxxv 

CCXXVI 

CCXXVII 

CCXXVIII 

CCXXIX 

ccxxx 

CCXXXI 

CCXXXII 

CCXXXIII 

CCXXXIV 

ccxxxv 

CCXXXVI 

CCXXXVII 

CCXXXVIII 

CCXXXIX 

CCXL 

CCXLI 

CCXLII 

CCXLIII 

CCXLIV 

CCXLV 

CCXLVI 

CCXLVII 

CCXLVIII 

CCXLIX 

CCL 

CCLI 

CCLII 

CCLIII 

CCLIV 

CCLV 

CCLVI 

CCLVII 

CCLVIII 
CCLIX 


Debate  in  New  York  G>nvention,  June  24,  1788. 
Randolph  in  Virginia  Convention,  June  25, 
Debate  in  New  York  Convention,  June  28, 
Smith  in  New  York  Convention,  July  4, 
Cutting  to  Jefferson,  July  11, 
Washington  to  Newenham,  July  20, 
Debate  in  North  Carolina  Convention,  July  24, 
Davie  in  North  Carolina  Convention,  July  25, 
Debate  in  North  Carolina  Convention,  July  26, 
Debate  in  North  Carolina  Convention,  July  28, 
Davie  in  North  Carolina  Convention,  July  29, 
Spaight  in  North  Carolina  Convention,  July  30, 
Lansing  and  Yates  to  Smith,  October  3, 
Madison  to  Mazzei,  October  8, 
Dorchester  to  Sydney,  October  14, 
Franklin  to  LaRochefoucauld,  October  22, 
Madison  to  Turberville,  November  2, 
Sherman:  Citizen  of  New  Haven,  December  4, 
Pinckney  to  King,  January  26,  1789. 
Pinckney  to  Madison,  March  28, 
Madison  in  House  of  Representatives,  May  13, 
Madison  in  House  of  Representatives,  May  15, 
Debate  in  House  of  Representatives,  May  19, 
Debate  in  House  of  Representatives,  June  8, 
Sherman  in  House  of  Representatives,  June  18, 
Baldwin  in  House  of  Representatives,  June  19, 
Sherman  to  Adams,  July  20, 
Sherman  in  House  of  Representatives,  August  14, 
Madison  to  Randolph,  August  21, 
Sherman  in  House  of  Representatives,  August  21, 
Washington  and  Jefferson:  Anecdote. 
Sherman  in  House  of  Representatives  February 

3,  I79<^- 
Baldwin  in  House  of  Representatives,  February  12, 

Gerry  in  House  of  Representatives,  February  25, 

Coxe  to  Madison,  March  31, 

Madison  in  House  of  Representatives,  April  22, 

Sherman  in  House  of  Representatives,  May  3, 

Sherman  in  House  of  Representatives,  May  25, 

Madison  in  House  of  Representatives,  February 

2, 1 791. 

Gerry  in  House  of  Representatives,  February  7, 

Jefferson:  On  the  National  Bank,  February  15, 


lO 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


CCLX 

CCLXI 

CCLXII 
CCLXIII 
CCLXIV 

CCLXV 

CCLXVI 

CCLXVII 

CCLXVIII 

CCLXIX 

CCLXX 

CCLXXI 

CCLXXII 

CCLXXIII 

CCLXXIV 

CCLXXV 

CCLXXVI 

CCLXXVII 

CCLXXVIII 

CCLXXIX 
CCLXXX 

CCLXXXI 
CCLXXXII 

CCLXXXIII 

CCLXXXIV 

CCLXXXV 

CCLXXXVI 

CCLXXXVII 

CCLXXXVIII 

CCLXXXIX 


Hamilton:  On  the  National  Bank,  February  23, 

1791. 
Baldwin  in  House  of  Representatives,  November 

10, 
Gerry  in  House  of  Representatives,  November  21, 
Dayton  in  House  of  Representatives,  December  22, 
Williamson  in  House  of  Representatives,  January 

24, 1792, 
Williamson  in  House  of  Representatives,  February 

3. 
Madison  in  House  of  Representatives,  February 

6, 

Jefferson:  Anas,  April  9, 

Hamilton  to  Carrington,  May  26, 

Mason's  Account  of  Certain  Proceedings  in  Con- 
vention, September  30, 

Hamilton:  Reply  to  Anonymous  Charges. 

Anonymous  Letter  to  Hamilton,  August  30,  1793. 

Baldwin  in  House  of  Representatives,  March  14, 
1796. 

Secretary  of  State  received  Convention  Papers 
from  Washington,  March  19, 

Washington:  Message  to  House  of  Representa- 
tives, March  30, 

Madison  to  Jefferson,  April  4, 

Madison  in  House  of  Representatives,  April  6, 

Findley  in  House  of  Representatives,  January 
23,  1798. 

Baldwin:  Incident  in  House  of  Representatives, 
March  11, 

Pinckney  in  House  of  Representatives,  May  10, 

Debate  in  House  of  Representatives,  June 
16-20, 

Gallatin  in  House  of  Representatives,  June  19, 

Baldwin  in  House  of  Representatives,  January 
II,  1799. 

Baldwin  in  House  of  Representatives,  January  15, 

Madison  to  Jefferson,  February  8, 

Morris:   Oration  upon  Washington, 

Debate  in  United  States  Senate,  January  23, 1800. 

Pinckney  in  United  States  Senate,  March  5, 

Pinckney  in  United  States  Senate,  March  28, 

Morris  in  United  States  Senate,  January  8,  1802. 


APPENDIX  A,   CONTENTS 


II 


ccxc 

CCXCI 

CCXCII 
CCXCIII 
CCXCIV 

ccxcv 

CCXCVI 

CCXCVII 

CCXCVIII 

CCXCIX 

ccc 

CCCI 

CCCII 

CCCIII 

CCCIV 

cccv 

CCCVI 

CCCVII 

CCCVIII 

CCCIX 

cccx 

CCCXI 

CCCXII 

CCCXIII 

CCCXIV 

cccxv 

CCCXVI 

CCCXVII 

CCCXVIII 

CCCXIX 

cccxx 

CCCXXI 

CCCXXII 

CCCXXIII 

CCCXXIV 

cccxxv 

CCCXXVI 

CCCXXVII 

CCCXXVIII 

CCCXXIX 

cccxxx 

CCCXXXI 


Morris  in  United  States  Senate,  January  14, 1802. 
Morris  to  President  of  New  York  Senate,  Decem- 
ber 25, 
Hamilton's  Proposals  in  Federal  Convention. 
Wood  to  Bancroft,  March  6,  1880  (1802). 
Pickering  to  Hamilton,  April  5,  1803. 
Hamilton  to  Pickering,  September  16, 
Pickering  to  Hamilton,  October  18, 
Dayton  in  United  States  Senate,  October  24, 
King  to  Pickering,  November  4, 
Butler  in  United  States  Senate,  November  23, 
Dayton  in  United  States  Senate,  November  24, 
Morris  to  Livingston,  November  25, 
Dayton  in  United  States  Senate,  November  29, 
Debate  in  United  States  Senate,  December  2, 
Morris  to  Livingston,  December  4, 
Morris  to  Morris,  December  10, 
Impeachment  of  Chase,  February  23-25,  1804. 
Dayton  in  United  States  Senate,  March  19, 
Madison  to  Webster,  October  12, 

Governor  Lewis  to , 

Genet:  Letter  to  Electors,  1808. 

Madison  to  Jefferson,  July  17,  1810. 

Eppes  to  Madison,  November  i, 

Morris  to  Walsh,  February  5,  181 1. 

Morris  to  Pickering,  December  22,  1814. 

Morris  to  Kent,  January  12,  181 5. 

Jefferson  to  Adams,  August  10, 

Morris  to  Wells,  February  24, 

King  in  United  States  Senate,  March  20,  1816. 

William  Few:  Autobiography. 

Madison  to  Adams,  December  23,  1817. 

Madison  to  Monroe,  December  27, 

King  in  United  States  Senate,  January  12,  1818. 

Resolution  of  Congress,  March  27, 

Madison  to  Adams,  November  2, 

Adams:  Memoirs,  November  19, 

Pinckney  to  Adams,  December  30, 

King  in  United  States  Senate,  March,  1819. 

Adams:  Memoirs,  May  13-June  2, 

Madison  to  Adams,  June  7, 

Madison  to  Adams,  June  27, 

Madison  to  Roane,  September  2, 


12 


RECORDS   OF  THE   FEDERAL   CONVENTION 


CCCXXXII 

CCCXXXIII 
CCCXXXIV 

cccxxxv 

CCCXXXVI 

CCCXXXVII 
CCCXXXVIII 

CCCXXXIX 

CCCXL 

CCCXLI 

CCCXLII 

CCCXLIII 

CCCXLIV 

CCCXLV 

CCCXLVI 

CCCXLVII 

CCCXLVIII 

CCCXLIX 

CCCL 

CCCLI 

CCCLII 

CCCLIII 

CCCLIV 

CCCLV 

CCCLVI 

CCCLVII 

CCCLVIII 

CCCLIX 

CCCLX 

CCCLXI 

CCCLXII 

CCCLXIII 

CCCLXIV 

CCCLXV 

CCCLXVI 

CCCLXVII 

CCCLXVIII 

CCCLXIX 

CCCLXX 

CCCLXXI 

CCCLXXII 


Madison  to  Walsh,  November  27,  18 19. 
Madison  to  Walsh,  January  ii,  1820. 
Lowrie  in  United  States  Senate,  January  20, 
Madison  to  Monroe,  February  10, 
Pinckney  in  House  of  Representatives,  February 

Madison  to  Adams,  June  13, 

Pinckney  in  House  of  Representatives,  February 

Madison  to  Gales,  August  26, 

Madison  to  Ritchie,  September  15, 

Madison  to  Jackson,  December  27, 

Madison:  Note  to  Speech  on  Right  of  Suffrage. 

Madison:  General  Remarks  on  Convention. 

Adams:  Memoirs,  January  9-1 1,  1823, 

Madison  to  Hay,  August  23, 

King  to  King,  September  29, 

Madison  to  Jefferson,  January  14,  1824. 

King  in  United  States  Senate,  March  18, 

King  to  King,  March  23, 

Madison  to  Livingston,  April  17, 

Madison  to  Lee,  June  25, 

Madison  to  Lee,  January  14,  1825. 

Cobb  in  United  States  Senate,  February  23, 

Benton  on  King's  Retiring  from  Senate. 

Steele:  Anecdote  of  Convention,  September, 

Madison  to  Stevenson,  March  25,  1826. 

Madison  to  Cooper,  December  26, 

Madison  to  Smith,  February.  2,  1827. 

Madison  to  Everett,  June  3,  1827. 

Pickering  to  Jackson,  September  2, 

Madison  to  Mason,  December  29, 

Pitkin:  On  Signing  the  Constitution,  1828. 

Madison  to  Van  Buren,  May  13, 

Madison  to  Cabell,  September  18, 

Madison  to  Cabell,  February  2,  1829. 

Madison  to  Cabell,  February  13, 

Sparks:  Journal,  April  19-May  4,  1830. 

Adams:  Memoirs,  May  4, 

Sparks  to  Madison,  May  5, 

Madison  to  Hurlbert,  May, 

Madison  to  Hillhouse,  May, 

Madison  to  Stevenson,  November  27, 


APPENDIX  A«   I 


13 


CCCLXXIII 

CCCLXXIV 

CCCLXXV 

CCCLXXVI 

CCCLXXVII 

CCCLXXVIII 

CCCLXXIX 

CCCLXXX 

CCCLXXXI 

CCCLXXXII 

CCCLXXXIII 

CCCLXXXIV 

CCCLXXXV 

CCCLXXXVI 

CCCLXXXVII 

CCCLXXXVIII 

CCCLXXXIX 

CCCXC 

CCCXCI 

CCCXCII 

CCCXCIII 

CCCXCIV 

cccxcv 

CCCXCVI 

CCCXCVII 

CCCXCVIII 

CCCXCIX 

cccc 

CCCCI 


Madison  to  Teft,  December  3,  1830. 
Madison  to  Chapman,  January  6,  1831. 
Madison  to  IngersoU,  February  2, 
Madison  to  Sedgewick,  February  12, 
Madison  to  Robertson,  March  27, 
Sparks  to  Madison,  March  30, 
Madison  to  Sparks,  April  8, 
Madison  to  Paulding,  April, 
Madison  to  Paulding,  April, 
Madison  to  Paulding,  June  6, 
Madison  to  Sparks,  June  27, 
Madison  to  Paulding,  June  27, 
Madison  on  Pinckney  Plan. 
Sparks  to  Madison,  November  14, 
Madison  to  Sparks,  November  25, 
Madison  to  Trist,  December, 
Madison  to  Austin,  February  6,  1832. 
Madison  to  Davis, 
Madison  to  Rives,  October  21,  1833. 
Madison  to  Tyler, 

Madison  to  Grimke,  January  6,  1834. 
Madison  to  Cogswell,  March  10, 
Trist:  Memoranda,  September  27, 
Madison  to  Coles,  October  15, 
Madison  to  Duer,  June  15,  1835. 
Madison  on  Nullification,  1835-6. 
Madison  to  Wood,  February  27, 

Madison  to ^  March, 

Madison:  Preface  to  Debates. 


CCCCII 

cccaii 


Supplement 

Johnson's  Diary,  June  i-September  18,  1787. 
Dickinson:  Extract  from  letter. 


I.    Resolution  of  Congress.^ 

1787,  February  21. 
Whereas  there  is  provision  in  the  Articles  of  Confederation  & 
perpetual  Union  for  making  alterations  therein  by  the  Assent  of  a 
Congress  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  legislatures  of  the  several 
States;  And  whereas  experience  hath  evinced  that  there  are  defects 
in  the  present  Confederation,  as  a  mean  to  remedy  which  several 


>  Docununtary  History  of  thi  ConstUtUian,  TV,  78. 


14       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  the  States  and  particularly  the  State  of  New  York  by  express 
instructions  to  their  delegates  in  Congress  have  suggested  a  conven- 
tion for  the  purposes  expressed  in  the  following  resolution  and  such 
Convention  appearing  to  be  the  most  probable  mean  of  establishing 
in  these  states  a  firm  national  government 

Resolved  that  in  the  opinion  of  Congress  it  is  expedient  that  on 
the  second  Monday  in  May  next  a  Convention  of  delegates  who  shall 
have  been  appointed  by  the  several  states  be  held  at  Philadelphia 
for  the  sole  and  express  purpose  of  revising  the  Articles  of  Confedera- 
tion and  reporting  to  Congress  and  the  several  legislatures  such 
alterations  and  provisions  therein  as  shall  when  agreed  to  in  Congress 
and  confirmed  by  the  states  render  the  federal  constitution  adequate 
to  the  exigencies  of  Government  &  the  preservation  of  the  Union 


II.   The  Governor  of  North  Carolina  [Richard  Caswell]  to  the 
Naval  Officers  of  the  Ports  of  that  State.^ 

[Circular]. 

Kinston,  ist  March,  1787. 
Sir: 

I  find  it  absolutely  necessary  for  the  advantage  of  the  State 
to  require  that  you  do  without  delay  furnish  me  with  an  attested 
Accot.  in  your  official  capacity  as  Naval  Officer  of  Port  Brunswick 
of  each  &  very  article  exported  from  your  port  in  the  years  1785  & 
1786.  I  mean  the  amot.  of  each  article,  each  year,  of  the  growth 
and  manufacture  of  this  State,  and  if  possible  the  no.  and  class  of 
vessels  that  is  ships,  sloops,  schooners,  &c.,  with  the  nation  to  which 
each  certain  no.  belongs. 

Indeed  three  Copies  will  be  necessary,  one  to  be  laid  before  Con- 
gress, one  before  the  Convention  of  Deputies  proposed  to  be  held 
at  Philadelphia  the  first  of  May  next,  and  one  to  lodge  with  the 
Executive  for  the  information  of  the  General  Assembly.  Pray  do 
not  fail  in  furnishing  me  as  speedily  as  possible  otherwise  it  will  be 
too  late  to  transmit  the  Copy  to  the  Convention.  Any  expence 
attending  this  measure  must  be  charged  to  the  public. 

(Governor  Caswell  to  John  Walker,  James  Coor,  Wm.  Brown, 
M.  Payne  and  Jno.  Humphries.) 


^  North  Carolina  StaUlUcords,XK,  631. 


APPENDIX  A,    III  IS 

III.   Mr.  Otto,  charge  d'affaires  de  France,  au  Secretaire 
d'Etat  des  Affaires  Etrangeres,  coiite  de  Montmorin.^ 

No.  85. 

A  New  York,  Ic  10  avril,  1787. 
Monseigneur, 
Delegues  de  la  L'insuffisance  de  la  confederation  actuelle 
pluspart  des  Etats  et  la  necessite  absolue  de  la  refondre  entierement 
nommes  pour  con-  sont  si  bien  senties,  que  la  plupart  des  Etats  ont 
venir  d'un  nou-  nomme  sans  delai  des  delegues  charges  de  s'assem- 
veau  systeme  de  bier  a  Philadelphie  pour  convenir  d'un  nouveau 
gouvemement.  systeme  de  gouvemement  moins  defectueuz  et 
Le  Congres  n'est  moins  precaire  que  celui  qui  eziste  dans  ce  moment 
qu'un  phantome  ci,  ou  plutot  qu  devroit  exister.  Le  Congres 
de  souverainete.  n'est  reellement  qu'un  phantome  de  souverainete 
Resolution  ci-  destitue  de  pou voirs, d'energie  et  de  consideration, 
jointe  du  Congres  et  I'edifice  qu'il  doit  supporter  tombe  en  mine, 
pour  suggerer  Cette  assemblee,  craignant  de  perdre  le  peu 
I'idee  d'une  nou-  d'eclat  qui  lui  reste,  a  du  moins  voulu  avoir 
velle  Convention  I'air  de  suggerer  I'idee  d'un  nouvelle  Convention 
generate.  generale;    c'est  dans  ce  but  qu'elle  a  publle  la 

Le  Rhode-Island  resolution  ci  jointe.'  Le  Rhodeisland  est  jus- 
est  le  seul  Etat  qui  qu'ici  le  seul  Etat  qui  ait  positivement  refuse 
ait  refuse  d'en-  d'envoyer  des  delegues  a  Philadelphie;  cette 
voyer  a  Philadel-  conduite,  jointe  a  plusieurs  autres  mesures  egale- 
phie  des  delegues  ment  malhonetes  et  imprudentes  Font  rendu 
pour  cet  objet.  completement  meprisable  en  Amerique.  Les 
Cet  Etat  est  papiers  publics  sont  remplis  de  sarcasmes  contre 
meprise  en  Ame-  cette  petite  Republique,  et  malhereusement  elle 
rique.  parait  meriter  tout  le  mal  qu'on  en  dit. 

Membres  les  plus  Si  tous  les  delegues  nommes  pour  cette  Con- 
distingues  qui  vention  de  Philadelphie  y  assistent,  on  n'aura 
doivent  composer  jamais  vu,  meme  en  Europe,  une  assemblee  plus 
cette  assemblee  a  respectable  par  les  talens,  les  connoissances,  le 
Philadelphie  pour  desinteressement  et  le  patriotisme  de  ceuz  qui  la 
regler  la  nouvelle  composeront.  Le  gal.  Washington,  le  Dr.  Frank- 
Convention  gene-  lin  et  un  grand  nombre  d'autres  personnages  dis- 
rale,  qui  est  tingues,  quoique  moins  connus  en  Europe,  y  sont 
devenue  d'une  appelles.    On  ne  sauroit  douter  que  les  interets 

'  French  Archives:  Ministiti  des  Affaitts  Etranghis  Archives.  Eutts-Unis  Cor- 
Tispondance.    Vol.  32,  pp.  237  ff. 

'  Resolution  du  Congres  du  11  fevrier  1787.  Mtee  volume,  fo  i39ro.  Traduc- 
tion francaise. 


l6      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

neceBsite  indis-  de  la  confederation  n'y  soient  plu8  eolidement 
pensable.  discutes  qu'iU  ne  I'ont  jamais  ete.    Une  triste 

experience  de  plusieurs  annees  ne  prouve  que 
trop  qu'il  est  impossible  que  les  choses  restent 
sur  le  pied  actuel.  Pendant  la  guerre,  le  Congres 
empruntait,  pour  ainsi  dire,  sa  force  des  armees 
angloises,  qui  infestoient  les  Etats  de  toutes 
parts;  le  papier  monnoye  qu'il  pouvoit  creer  a 
rinfini,  les  subsides  de  la  France,  Tenthousiasme 
et  le  patriotisme  des  individus,  les  confiscations, 
des  troupes  nombreuses  lui  donnoient  une  impor- 
tance qui  s'est  evanouie  au  moment  de  la  paix. 
II  s'agit  done  d'adopter  un  nouveau  plan  de  con- 
federation, de  donner  au  Congres  des  pouvoirs 
coercitifs,  des  impots  considerables,  une  armee, 
le  droit  de  regler  ezclusivement  le  commerce  de 
tous  les  Etats.  Mais  cette  nouvelle  assemblee 
n'a  elle-meme  que  le  pouvoir  de  proposer.  Les 
Etats  voudront-ils  se  laisser  depouiller  d'une 
partie  de  leur  souverainete?  Voudront-ils  con- 
sentir  a  n'etre  plus  que  des  provinces  d'un  grand 
Empire?  La  majorite  des  Etats  pourra-t-elle 
faire  la  loi  a  ceuz  qui  ne  voudront  pas  sacrifier 
leur  independance  actuelle?  Cest  ce  dont  on  a 
lieu  de  douter;  mais  je  dois  m'attacher,  Mon- 
seigneur,  a  vous  presenter  des  faits  et  non  des 
conjectures. 

Je  ne  puis  cependant  m'empecher  de  vous 
observer  que,  quoique  cette  nouvelle  Convention 
soit  I'unique  moyen  de  reunir  les  membres  epars 
de  la  Confederation,  les  Americains  les  plus 
instruits  sont  bien  loin  de  le  regarder  comme 
suffisant.  U  regne  dans  la  formation  de  ces 
Etats  un  vice  radical  qui  s'opposera  toujours  a 
une  union  parfaite,  c'est  que  les  Etats  n'ont  re- 
ellement  aucun  interet  pressant  d'etre  sous  un 
seul  chef.  Leur  politique,  qui  se  borne  a  leurs 
speculations  com[m]erciales,  leur  inspire  meme 
reciproquement  de  I'aversion  et  de  la  jalousie, 
passions  qui  se  trouvoient  absorbees  pendant  la 
guerre  par  I'enthousaiasme  de  la  liberte  et  de 
I'independance,  mais  qui  com[m]encent  i,  repren- 
dre   toute   leur  force.    Ces   republicains   n'ont 


APPENDIX  A,   IV  17 

plus  de  Philippe  a  leura  porteSi  et,  comme  iU 
ont  Becoue  le  joug  de  rAngleterre  pour  ne  pas 
payer  des  taxes,  ils  portent  avec  impatience 
celui  d'un  Congres,  qui  ne  peut  que  les  charger 
d'impots  sans  leur  offrir  aucune  protection  contre 
des  ennemis  qui  n'existent  plus.  La  confedera- 
tion n'est  reellement  soutenue  que  par  le  parti 
aristocratique  et  ce  parti  s'affoiblit  tous  les  jours* 
Les  Cincinnati  et  tous  les  creanders  publics  se 
trouvent  dans  cette  dasse,  mais  a  mesure  qu'ils 
sont  mines  par  les  intrigues  du  pard  oppose  ou 
par  I'epuisement  du  tresor  continental,  ils  devien- 
nent  plebeiens  pour  obtenir  des  places  de  con- 
fiance  ou  du  moins  pour  avoir  de  quoi  vivre, 
d'autres  vont  porter  dans  les  districts  occiden- 
tauz  leur  Industrie  et  les  foibles  debris  de  leur 
fortune;  un  petit  nombre  d'entre  euz  passe  en 
Angleterre. 

Je  suis  avec  un  profond  respect,  Monseigneur, 
votre  tres  humble  et  tres  obeissant  serviteur, 
Otto. 

TV.    Richard  Caswell  to  Alexander  Martin.^ 

April  II,  1787. 
Mr.  Speight  thinks  the  allowance  not  sufficient  as  'tis  probable 
the  Convention  may  sit  longer  than  we  at  first  apprehended  &  as 
we  are  to  acc't  he  thinks  with  me,  that  'tis  best  to  draw  one  months 
further  allowance,'  least  we  should  be  stinted  as  he  was  at  Congress 
&  obliged  to  run  in  debt.  I  have  therefore  enclosed  you  a  Warrant 
for  one  months  further  allowance  &  as  I  presume  you  will  not  set 
out  as  soon  as  you  mentioned  you  may  have  time  to  collect  it. 


V.   Resolution  of  Congress.' 

Monday  April  23.  1787 
On  motion  of  Mr  Carrington  seconded  by  Mr  Johnson  Resolved 
That  the  priviledge  of  sending  &  receiving  letters  and  packets  free 
of  postage  be  extended  to  the  members  of  the  Convention  to  be  held 
in  Philadelphia  on  the  second  Monday  in  May  next  in  the  same 
manner  as  is  allowed  to  the  members  of  Congress.  ~ 

1  North  Carolina  SuUe  Records,  Vol.  XX,  pp.  666-7. 

*  Allowance  for  three  months  had  been  previously  granted. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution  IV,  III. 


l8       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

VI.    William  Jackson  to  George  Washington.^ 

W.  Jackson  to  His  Excellency  General  Washington  Mount-Vemon 
Flattered  by  the  opinions  of  some  of  my  friends,  who  have  ex- 
pressed a  wish  that  I  would  offer  myself  a  Candidate  for  the  Office 
of  Secretary  to  the  foederal  Covention  —  I  presume  to  communicate 
to  you  my  intention  —  and  to  request  (so  far  as  you  shall  deem  it 
consonant  with  the  more  important  interests  of  the  Public)  your 
influence  in  procuring  me  the  honor  of  that  appointment. 

To  say  more  on  this  subject  would  be  to  offend  against  that 
generous  friendship,  which  I  am  persuaded,  if  held  compatible  with 
the  service  of  our  Country,  will  prompt  an  active  goodness  in  my 
favor. 

[Endorsed:]   From  W.  Jackson  Esqr  reed.  24th.  Aprl  1787 


Via.   Ja&ed  Ingersoll  to  William  Samuel  Johnson.* 

Philadelphia,  April  28th.  1787 
Major  Jackson  this  moment  called  on  me  and  expressed  his 
willingness  to  serve  the  proposed  Convention  in  the  Character  of 
Secretary  and  requested  I  would  do  him  the  favor  to  write  you  a 
line  upon  the  Subject  as  it  is  the  expectation  as  well  as  wish  of  people 
here  that  you  may  be  among  the  Delegates  from  Connecticut. 

I  comply  with  the  Desire  of  Major  Jackson  as  I  find  a  strange 
Idea  is  prevalent  that  a  prior  application  of  some  sort  forms  a 
preferable  Title  and  least  some  other  person  [shojuld  be  able  to 
anticipate  him.    .  .  . 

P.  S.  In  my  haste  I  forgot  to  mention  that  some  of  your  brethren 
in  Congress,  Col.  Lee  in  particular  can  give  you  full  information 
as  to  the  Character  of  Major  Jackson. 


VII.    Several  Gentlemen  of  Rhode  Island  to  the  Chairman 

OF  THE  General  Convention.' 

Gentlemen  Providence  May  1 1.  1787. 

Since  the  Legislature  of  this  State  have  finally  declined  sending 
Delegates  to  Meet  you  in  Convention  for  the  purposes  mentioned 
in  the  Resolve  of  Congress  of  the  2ist  February  1787.     the  Mer- 

^  DocuvKntary  History  of  ifu  Constitution  IV,  1 21-122. 

'  Papers  of  W.  S.  Johnson,  Connecticut  Historical  Society.  Furnished  to  the 
editor  through  the  courtesy  of  Mr.  Edmund  C.  Burnett  of  the  Department  of 
Historical  Research  of  the  Carnegie  Institution  of  Washington. 

'  Documentary  History  of  thi  Constitution,  I,  275-276.  See  also  XLV  and  CII 
below. 


APPENDIX  A,   VII 


19 


chants  Tradesmen  and  others  of  this  place,  deeply  affected  with  the 
evils  of  the  present  unhappy  times,  have  thought  proper  to  Com- 
municate in  writing  their  approbation  of  your  Meeting,  And  their 
regret  that  it  will  fall  short  of  a  Compleat  Representation  of  the 
Federal  Union. 

The  failure  of  this  State  was  Owing  to  the  Nonconcurrence  of  the 
Upper  House  of  Assembly  with  a  Vote  passed  in  the  Lower  House, 
for  appointing  Delegates  to  attend  the  said  Convention,  at  thier 
Session  holden  at  Newport  on  the  first  Wednesday  of  the  present 

Month. 

It  is  the  general  Opinion  here  and  we  believe  of  the  well  informed 
throughout  this  State,  that  full  power  for  the  Regulation  of  the 
Commerce  of  the  United  States,  both  Foreign  &  Domestick  ought 
to  be  vested  in  the  National  Council. 

And  that  Effectual  Arrangements  should  also  be  made  for  giv- 
ing Operation  to  the  present  powers  of  Congress  in  thier  Requisitions 
upon  the  States  for  National  purposes. 

As  the  Object  of  this  Letter  is  chiefly  to  prevent  any  impressions 
unfavorable  to  the  Commercial  Interest  of  this  State,  from  taking 
place  in  our  Sister  States  from  the  Circumstance  of  our  being  unrepre- 
sented in  the  present  National  Convention,  we  shall  not  presume 
to  enter  into  any  detail  of  the  objects  we  hope  your  deliberations 
will  embrace  and  provide  for  being  convinced  they  will  be  such  as 
have  a  tendency  to  strengthen  the  Union,  promote  Commerce, 
increase  the  power  &  Establish  the  Credit  of  the  United  States. 

The  result  of  your  deliberations  tending  to  these  desireable  pur- 
poses we  still  hope  may  finally  be  Approved  and  Adopted  by  this 
State,  for  which  we  pledge  our  Influence  and  best  exertions. 

In  behalf  of  the  Merchants,  Tradesmen  &c 

We  have  the  Honour  to  be  with  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect 

Your  most  Obedient  & 

Most  Humble  Servant's 


John  Brown 
Thos  Lloyd  Halsey 
Jos.  Nightingale 
Levi  Hall 
Philip  Allen 
Paul  Allen 


Jabez  Bowen 
Nichos  Brown 
John  Jenckes, 
Welcome  Arnold 
William  Russell 
Jeremiah  Olmy, 
William  Barton 


comtee 


The  Honble  the  Chairman  of  the  General  Convention 

Philadelphia 

[Endorsed:]  No  5.      Letter  from    several    Gentlemen    of   Rhode 


20       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Island   addressed  to  the  honorable  the  Chairman  of  the  General 
Convention  signed  in  behalf  of  the  Merchants,  Tradesmen  &ca 

dated  Providence  May  ii.  1787. 
read  on  Monday  May  28.  1787.  —  Ordered  to  lye  on  the  table  for 
farther  consideration  

VIII.  George  Washington:  Diary.* 

Monday  J  [May]  14.  —  This  being  the  day  appointed  for  the 
meeting  of  the  Convention  such  members  of  it  as  were  in  town 
assembled  at  the  State  House,  where  it  was  found  that  two  States 
only  were  represented,  viz.,  Virginia  and  Pennsylvania.  Agreed 
to  meet  again  to-morrow  at  1 1  o'clock.    .  .   . 

Tuesday^  15.  —  Repaired  to  the  State  Ho.  at  the  hour  appointed 
No  more  States  represented,  tho  there  were  members  (but  not 
sufficient  to  form  a  quorum)  from  two  or  three  others,  viz..  No. 
Carolina  and  Delaware,  as  also  Jersey.  Govr  Randolph,  of  Vir- 
ginia, came  in  to-day.  

IX.  James  Madison  to  Thomas  Jefferson.* 

Philada.  May  15th.  1787 
Monday  last  was  the  day  for  the  meeting  of  the  Convention. 
The  number  as  yet  assembled  is  but  small.  Among  the  few  is  Gen! 
Washington  who  arrived  on  Sunday  evening  amidst  the  acclamations 
of  the  people,  as  well  as  more  sober  marks  of  the  affection  and  ven- 
eration which  continues  to  be  felt  for  his  character.  The  Governor 
Messrs.  Wythe  &  Blair,  and  Doer.  McQurg  are  also  here.  Col. 
Mason  is  to  be  here  in  a  day  or  two.  There  is  a  prospect  of  a  pretty 
full  meeting  on  the  whole,  though  there  is  less  punctuality  in  the 
outset  than  was  to  be  wished.  Of  this  the  late  bad  weather  has  been 
the  principal  cause.  I  mention  these  circumstances  because  it  is 
possible,  this  may  reach  you  before  you  hear  from  me  through  any 
other  channel,  and  I  add  no  others  because  it  is  merely  possible. 


X.    George  Washington:  Diary.^ 

Wednesday^  [May]  16.  —  Only  two  States  represented.  Agreed 
to  meet  at  —  o'clock.  Doctr  McClurg,  of  Virginia,  came  in.  Dined 
at  Doctr  Franklin's.    .  .  . 

Thursday f  17.  —  Mr.  [Charles]  Pinkney,  of  So.  Carolina,  coming 
in  from  New  York,  and  Mr.  Rutledge  being  here  before,  formed  a 
representation  from  that  State.     Colonel  Mason   getting  in   this 

^  Pennsylvania  Magazine  of  History  and  Biography ,  XI,  297. 
*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitiuion,  IV,  165. 


APPENDIX  A,   XI  21 

evening  from  Virginia,  completed  the  whole  number  of  this  State 
in  the  delegation.  

XI.  Benjamin  Franklin  to  Richard  Price.^ 

Philada,  May  i8,  1787. 
We  have  now  meeting  here  a  Convention  of  the  principal  people 
in  the  several  States,  for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  federal  Con- 
stitution, and  proposing  such  amendments  as  shall  be  thoroughly 
necessary.  It  is  a  most  important  business,  and  I  hope  will  be 
attended  with  success.        

XII.  Benjamin  Franklin  to  Thomas  Jordan.* 

Philadelphia,  May  18,  1787. 
I  received  your  very  kind  letter  of  February  27th,  together 
with  the  cask  of  porter  you  have  been  so  good  as  to  send  me.  We 
have  here  at  present  what  the  French  call  une  assemblie  des  notables 
a  convention  composed  of  some  of  the  principal  people  from  the 
several  States  of  our  confederation.  They  did  me  the  honor  of 
dining  with  me  last  Wednesday,'  when  the  cask  was  broached,  and 
its  contents  met  with  the  most  cordial  reception  and  universal  appro- 
bation. In  short,  the  company  agreed  unanimously,  that  it  was  the 
best  porter  they  had  ever  tasted. 


XIII.   George  Washington:  Diart.^ 

Friday y  [MayJ  18.  —  The  State  of  New  York  was  represented. 


•  •  • 


Saturday f  19.  —  No  more  States  represented.    Agreed  to  meet 
at  I  o'clock  on  Monday.      

Xllla.    Pennsylvania  Journal  and  Weekly  Advertiser.* 

Saturday,  May  19,  1787. 
A  return  of  the  Delegates  appointed  to  the  Foederal  Convention:  — 
The  names  of  those  who  have  already  arrived  in  this  City,  are  printed 
in  Italic. 


» Sm)rth,  Writings  of  Benjamin  Franklin,  IX,  585-586. 

*  Sm3rth,  Writings  of  Benjamin  Franklin,  IX,  582. 

'  Jameson  (Studies,  93)  cites  another  letter  of  Franklin's  to  his  sister,  to  the  effect 
that  his  new  dining-room  would  enable  him  to  have  a  dinner-party  of  only  twenty- 
four,  which  would  be  about  the  number  of  delegates  in  attendance  on  the  i6th. 

*  Pennsyhania  Magazine  of  History  and  Biography,  XI,  297. 

'  The  same  item  (with  slight  differences  in  spelling  and  omitting  John  Neilson 
of  New  Jersey)  is  given  in  the  Pennsyhania  Herald  and  General  Advertiser  of 
May  19. 


22       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

New  Hampshire.  John  Langdon,  John  Sparhawk,  Pierce  Long. 

Massachusetts.   Francis  Dana,  Elbridge  Gerry,   Nathan  Gorham, 

Rufus  King,  Caleb  Strong. 

Connecticut.  Their  legislature  were  to  meet  in  the  beginning  of 

this  month,  at  which  time  it  is  supposed  their  delegates  would  be 

appointed. 

Rhode  Island.     Has  not  made  any  appointment  as  yet. 

New  York.  Robert  Yates^  Alexander  Hamilton^  John  Lansing, 

New  Jersey.  David  Brearly,  William   Churchill   Houston,  William 

Patterson,  John  Neilson. 

Pennsylvania.  Benjamin  Franklin^   Thomas  Mifflin^  Robert  Morris^ 

Thomas  FitzimmonSy  George  Clymer^  Jared  Ingersoly  James  Wilson^ 

Gouverneur  Morris. 

Delaware.  John  Dickinson,  George  Reedy  Gunning  Bedford,  Richard 

Basset,  Jacob  Broome, 

Maryland.  Robert  Hanson  Harrison,  Charles  Carroll,  of  Carrolton, 

James  McHenry. 

Virginia.  George  Washingtony  Peyton  Randolphy  John  Blair,  James 

Maddisony  George  Mason,  George  Wythey  Richard  Henry  Lee. 

North    Carolina.    Alexander  Martin,  Willis  Jones,  Richard  Dobbs 

Spaighty  William  Richardson  Davie,  William  Blunt. 

South  Carolina.  John  RutledgCy  Charles  Caterworth  Pinckney,  Henry 

Laurens,  Charles  Pinckneyy  Pierce  Butler. 

Georgia.  William  FeWy  Abraham  Baldwin,  George  Walton,  William 

Pierce,  William  Houston,  Nathaniel  Pendelton. 


XIV.  George  Washington  to  Arthur  Lee.* 

Philadelphia,  May  20th,  1787. 
My  rheumatic  complaint  having  very  much  abated  ...  I  have 
yielded  to  what  appeared  to  be  the  wishes  of  many  of  my  friends,  and 
am  now  here  as  a  delegate  to  the  convention.  Not  more  than  four 
states  were  represented  yesterday.  If  any  have  come  in  since,  it  is 
unknown  to  me.  These  delays  greatly  impede  public  measures,  and 
serve  to  sour  the  temper  of  the  punctual  members,  who  do  not  like  to 
idle  away  their  time.  

XV.  George  Mason  to  George  Mason,  Jr.* 

Philadelphia,  May  20th,  1787. 
Upon  our  arrival  here  on  Thursday  evening,  seventeenth  May, 
I  found  only  the  States  of  Virginia  and  Pennsylvania  fully  repre- 

*  R.  H.  Lee,  Lije  of  Arthur  Lee^  II,  173. 

"  K.  M.  Rowland,  Life  of  George  Mason^  II,  100-102. 


APPENDIX  A,   XV  23 

sen  ted;  and  there  are  at  this  time  only  five  —  New  York,  the  two 
Carolinas,  and  the  two  before  mentioned.  All  the  States,  Rhode 
Island  excepted,  have  made  their  appointments;  but  the  members 
drop  in  slowly;  some  of  the  deputies  from  the  Eastern  States  are 
here,  but  none  of  them  have  yet  a  sufficient  representation,  and  it 
will  probably  be  several  days  before  the  Convention  will  be  author- 
ized to  proceed  to  business.  The  expectations  and  hopes  of  all  the 
Union  centre  in  this  Convention.  God  grant  that  we  may  be  able 
to  concert  effectual  means  of  preserving  our  country  from  the  evils 
which  threaten  us. 

The  Virginia  deputies  (who  are  all  here)  meet  and  confer  together 
two  or  three  hours  every  day,  in  order  to  form  a  proper  correspond- 
ence of  sentiments;  and  for  form's  sake,  to  see  what  new  deputies 
are  arrived,  and  to  grow  into  some  acquaintance  with  each  other, 
we  regularly  meet  every  day  at  three  o'clock.  These  and  some 
occasional  conversations  with  the  deputies  of  different  States,  and 
with  some  of  the  general  ofilicers  of  the  late  army  (who  are  here 
upon  a  general  meeting  of  the  Cincinnati),  are  the  only  opportunities 
I  have  hitherto  had  of  forming  any  opinion  upon  the  great  subject 
of  our  mission,  and,  consequently,  a  very  imperfect  and  indecisive 
one.  Yet,  upon  the  great  principles  of  it,  I  have  reason  to  hope  there 
will  be  greater  unanimity  and  less  opposition,  except  from  the  little 
States,  than  was  at  first  apprehended.  The  most  prevalent  idea 
in  the  principal  States  seems  to  be  a  total  alteration  of  the  present 
federal  system,  and  substituting  a  great  national  council  or  parlia- 
ment, consisting  of  two  branches  of  the  legislature,  founded  upon 
the  principles  of  equal  proportionate  representation,  with  full  legis- 
lative powers  upon  all  the  subjects  of  the  Union;  and  an  executive: 
and  to  make  the  several  State  legislatures  subordinate  to  the  national, 
by  giving  the  latter  the  power  of  a  negative  upon  all  such  laws  as 
they  shall  judge  contrary  to  the  interest  of  the  federal  Union.  It 
is  easy  to  foresee  that  there  will  be  much  difficulty  in  organizing 
a  government  upon  this  great  scale,  and  at  the  same  time  reserving 
to  the  State  legislatures  a  sufficient  portion  of  power  for  promoting 
and  securing  the  prosperity  and  happiness  of  their  respective  citizens; 
yet  with  a  proper  degree  of  coolness,  liberality  and  candor  (very 
rare  commodities  by  the  bye),  I  doubt  not  but  it  may  be  effected. 
There  are  among  a  variety  some  very  eccentric  opinions  upon  this 
great  subject;  and  what  is  a  very  extraordinary  phenomenon,  we 
are  likely  to  find  the  republicans,  on  this  occasion,  issue  from  the 
Southern  and  Middle  States,  and  the  anti-republicans  from  the 
Eastern;  however  extraordinary  this  may  at  first  seem,  it  may,  I 
think  be  accounted  for  from  a  very  common  and  natural  impulse 


24      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  the  human  mind.  Men  disappointed  in  expectations  too  hastily 
and  sanguinely  formed,  tired  and  disgusted  with  the  unexpected  evils 
they  have  experienced,  and  anxious  to  remove  them  as  far  as  possi- 
ble, are  very  apt  to  run  into  the  opposite  extreme;  and  the  people 
of  the  Eastern  States,  setting  out  with  more  republican  principles, 
have  consequently  been  more  disappointed  than  we  have  been. 

We  found  travelling  very  expensive  —  from  eight  to  nine  dollars 
per  day.  In  this  city  the  living  is  cheap.  We  are  at  the  old  Indian 
Queen  in  Fourth  Street,  where  we  are  very  well  accommodated, 
have  a  good  room  to  ourselves,  and  are  charged  only  twenty-five 
Pennsylvania  currency  per  day,  including  our  servants  and  horses, 
exclusive  of  club  in  liquors  and  extra  charges;  so  that  I  hope  I  shall 
be  able  to  defray  my  expenses  with  my  public  allowance,  and  more 
than  that  I  do  not  wish.       

XVI.  George  Mason  to  Arthur  Lee.^ 

Philadelphia,  May  21,  1787. 

I  arrived  in  this  city  on  Thursday  evening  last,  but  found  so 
few  of  the  deputies  here  from  the  several  States  that  I  am  unable 
to  form  any  certain  opinion  on  the  subject  of  our  mission.  The 
most  prevalent  idea  I  think  at  present  is  a  total  change  of  the  federal 
system,  and  instituting  a  great  national  council  or  parliament  upon 
the  principles  of  equal,  proportionate  representation,  consisting  of 
two  branches  of  the  legislature  invested  with  full  legislative  powers 
upon  the  objects  of  the  Union;  and  to  make  the  State  legislatures 
subordinate  to  the  national  by  giving  to  the  latter  a  negative  upon 
all  such  laws  as  they  judge  contrary  to  the  principles  and  interest 
of  the  Union;  to  establish  also  a  national  executive,  and  a  judiciary 
system  with  cognizance  of  all  such  matters  as  depend  upon  the 
law  of  nations,  and  such  other  objects  as  the  local  courts  of  justice 
may  be  inadequate  to.  .  .  . 

I  have  received  your  favor  by  Major  Jackson;  nothing  that 
I  have  heard  has  yet  been  mentioned  upon  this  subject  among  the 
deputies  now  here;  though  I  understand  there  are  several  candi- 
dates, which  I  am  surprised  at,  as  the  office  will  be  of  so  short  dura- 
tion, and  merely  honorary,  or  possibly  introductory  to  something 
more  substantial.  

XVII.  George  Read  to  John  Dickinson.* 

Philadelphia,  May  21st,  1787. 
It  was  rather  unlucky  that  you  had  not  given  me  a  hint  of  your 

*  Rowland,  Life  of  George  Masons  II,  ioa-103. 

'  W.  T.  Read,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  George  Read^  pp.  443-444. 


APPENDIX  A,   XVII  25 

wish  to  be  in  a  lodging-house  at  an  earlier  day.  Mrs.  House's,^ 
where  I  am»  is  very  crowded,  and  the  room  I  am  presently  in  so  small 
as  not  to  admit  of  a  second  bed.  That  which  I  had  heretofore, 
on  my  return  from  New  York,  was  asked  for  Governor  Randolph, 
it  being  then  expected  he  would  have  brought  his  lady  with  him, 
which  he  did  not,  but  she  is  expected  to  follow  some  time  hence. 

I  have  not  seen  Mr.  Bassett,  being  from  my  lodgings  when  he 
called  last  evening.  He  stopt  at  the  Indian  Queen,  where  Mr.  Mason, 
of  Virginia,  stays,  the  last  of  their  seven  deputies  who  came  in.  We 
have  now  a  quorum  from  six  States,  to  wit:  South  and  North  Caro- 
lina, Virginia,  Delaware,  Pennsylvania,  and  New  York,  and  sin- 
gle deputies  from  three  others,  —  Geoigia,  New  Jersey,  and 
Massachusetts,  —  whose  additional  ones  are  hourly  expected,  and 
also  the  Connecticut  deputies,  who  have  been  appointed,  within 
the  last  ten  days,  by  the  Legislature  there.  We  have  no  particular 
accounts  from  New  Hampshire,  other  than  that  the  delegates  to 
Congress  were  appointed  deputies  to  this  convention.  Maryland 
you  may  probably  have  heard  more  certain  accounts  of  than  we  who 
are  here.    Rhode  Island  hath  made  no  appointment  as  yet. 

The  gentlemen  who  came  here  early,  particularly  Virginia,  that 
had  a  quorum  on  the  first  day,  express  much  uneasiness  at  the  back- 
wardness of  individuals  in  giving  attendance.  It  is  meant  to  organ- 
ize the  body  as  soon  as  seven  States'  quorums  attend.  I  wish  you 
were  here. 

I  am  in  possession  of  a  copied  draft  of  a  Federal  system  intended 
to  be  proposed,  if  something  nearly  similar  shall  not  precede  it. 
Some  of  its  principal  features  are  taken  from  the  New  York  system 
of  government.  A  house  of  delegates  and  senate  for  a  general  legis- 
lature, as  to  the  great  business  of  the  Union.  The  first  of  them 
to  be  chosen  by  the  Legislature  of  each  State,  in  proportion  to  its 
number  of  white  inhabitants,  and  three-fifths  of  all  others,  fixing 
a  number  for  sending  each  representative.  The  second,  to  wit, 
the  senate,  to  be  elected  by  the  delegates  so  returned,  either  from 
themselves  or  the  people  at  large,  in  four  great  districts,  into  which 
the  United  States  are  to  be  divided  for  the  purpose  of  forming  this 
senate  from,  which,  when  so  formed,  is  to  be  divided  into  four  classes 
for  the  purpose  of  an  annual  rotation  of  a  fourth  of  the  members. 
A  president  having  only  executive  powers  for  seven  years.  By  this 
plan  our  State  may  have  a  representation  in  the  House  of  Delegates 
of  one  member  in  eighty.  I  suspect  it  to  be  of  importance  to 
the  small  States  that  their  deputies  should  keep  a  strict  watch 

>  On  Market  Street. 


26       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

upon  the  movements  and  propositions  from  the  larger  States,  who 
will  probably  combine  to  swallow  up  the  smaller  ones  by  addition, 
division,  or  impoverishment;  and,  if  you  have  any  wish  to  assist 
in  guarding  against  such  attempts,  you  will  be  speedy  in  your  attend- 
ance.   

XVIII.    George  Washington:  Diary.* 

Monday  J  [May]  21.  —  Delaware  State  was  represented.     .  .  . 
Tuesday^  22.  —  North  Carolina  represented.     .  .  . 
Wednesday^  23.  —  No  more  States  represented.     .  .  . 
Tkursdayy  24.  —  No  more  States  represented. 


XIX.    William  Grayson  to  James  Madison.* 

24th.  May  1787. 
Entre  nous.  I  believe  the  Eastern  people  have  taken  ground 
they  will  not  depart  from  respecting  the  Convention.  —  One  legis- 
lature  composed  of  a  lower-house  tri  ennially  elected  and  an  Execu- 
tive &  Senate  for  a  good  number  of  years.  —  I  shall  see  Gerry  & 
Johnson,  as  they  pass  &  may  perhaps  give  you  a  hint. 


XlXa.   RuFus  King  to  Jeremiah  Wadsworth.' 

Philadelphia  24  May  87 
New  York,  Delaware,  Pennsylvania  Virginia  North  and  South 
Carolina,  are  represented  by  a  Quorum  or  the  whole  of  their  Dele- 
gates—  New  Jersey  will  probably  be  represented  Tomorrow. 
Should  this  be  the  Case  the  Convention  will  be  able  to  appoint 
their  President  and  Secretary.  General  Washington  will  be  placed 
in  the  Chair,  and  Temple  Franklin  or  Majr.  Jackson  will  be  Secre- 
tary— Georgia  and  Maryland  will  be  represented  in  three  or  four 
Days —  I  am  mortified  that  I  alone  am  from  New  England  —  the 
Backwardness  may  prove  unfortunate  —  Pray  hurry  on  your  Dele- 
gates —  some  personal  Sacrifices  perhaps  may  stand  in  the  way  of 
their  immediate  attendance  —  But  they  ought  not  to  yield  to  such 
Considerations  —  Believe  me  it  may  prove  most  unfortunate  if 
they  do  not  attend  within  a  few  days  — 


^  Pennsyhania  Magazine  of  History  and  Biography,  XI,  298. 

'  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitutiony  TV,  167. 

'Jeremiah  Wadsworth  Papers,  Connecticut  Historical  Society.  Furnished 
to  the  editor  through  the  courtesy  of  Mr.  Edmund  C.  Burnett  of  the  Department 
of  Historical  Research  of  the  Carnegie  Institution  of  Washington. 


APPENDIX  A,   XX  27 

XX.  George  Washington:  Diart.^ 

Friday  J  [MayJ  25. — Another  delegate  comes  in  from  the  State 
of  New  Jersey.  Made  a  quorum.  And  seven  States  being  now 
represented  the  body  was  organized  and  I  was  called  to  the  Chair 
by  a  unanimous  vote.  Major  Jackson  was  appointed  Secretary  and 
a  Q>m'ee.  consisting  of  Mr.  Wythe,  Mr.  Hamilton  and  Mr.  Ch. 
Pinkney  chosen  to  prepare  rules  and  regulations  by  which  the  con- 
vention should  be  governed.  To  give  time  for  this  it  adjourned  till 
Monday,  10  o'clock.  

XXI.  James  Madison  to  Edmund  Pendleton.* 

Philada.  May  27.  1787. 
I  have  put  off  from  day  to  day  writing  to  my  friends  from  this 
place  in  hopes  of  being  able  to  say  something  of  the  Convention. 
Contrary  to  every  previous  calculation  the  bare  quorum  of  seven 
States  was  not  made  up  till  the  day  before  yesterday.  The  States 
composing  it  are  N.  York,  N.  Jersey,  Pena.  Delaware,  Virga.  N.  Caro- 
lina &  S.  Carolina.  Individual  members  are  here  from  Massts.  Mary- 
land &  Georgia;  and  our  intelligence  promises  a  compleat  addition  of 
the  first  and  last,  as  also  of  Connecticut  by  tomorrow  General  Wash- 
ington was  called  to  the  chair  by  a  unanimous  voice,  and  has  accepted 
it.  The  Secretary  is  a  Major  Jackson.  This  is  all  that  has  yet 
been  done  except  the  appointment  of  a  Committe  for  preparing 
the  rules  by  which  the  Convention  is  to  be  governed  in  their  pro- 
ceedings. A  few  days  will  now  furnish  some  data  for  calculating 
the  probable  result  of  the  meeting.  In  general  the  members  seem  to 
accord  in  viewing  our  situation  as  peculiarly  critical  and  in  being 
averse  to  temporising  expedients.  I  wish  they  may  as  readily  agree 
when  particulars  are  brought  forward.  Congress  are  reduced  to 
five  or  six  States,  and  are  not  likely  to  do  any  thing  during  the  term 
of  the  Convention.  

XXII.  James  Madison  to  his  Father.' 

Philada.  May  27th.  1787. 
We  have  been  here  for  some  time  suffering  a  daily  disappoint- 
ment from  the  failure  of  the  deputies  to  assemble  for  the  Conven- 
tion. Seven  States  were  not  made  up  till  the  day  before  yesterday. 
Our  intelligence  from  N.  York  promises  an  addition  of  three  more 
by   tomorrow.    General   Washington   was   unanimously  called   to 

^  Pennsylvania  Magazine  of  Histofy  and  Biography^  XI,  298. 
•  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  169. 
'Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  168. 


28       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  Chair  &  has  accepted  it.  It  is  impossible  as  yet  to  form  a  judg- 
ment of  the  result  of  this  experiment.  Every  reflecting  man  becomes 
daily  more  alarmed  at  our  situation. 


XXIII.   George  Mason  to  George  Mason,  Jr.^ 

Philadelphia,  May  27,  1787. 

It  is  impossible  to  judge  how  long  we  shall  be  detained  here, 
but  from  present  appearances  I  fear  until  July,  if  not  later.  I  begin 
to  grow  heartily  tired  of  the  etiquette  and  nonsense  so  fashionable 
in  this  city.  It  would  take  me  some  months  to  make  myself  master 
of  them,  and  that  it  should  require  months  to  learn  what  is  not  worth 
remembering  as  many  minutes,  is  to  me  so  discouraging  a  circum- 
stance as  determines  me  to  give  myself  no  manner  of  trouble  about 
them.     .  .  . 

We  had  yesterday,  for  the  first  time,  a  representation  of  seven 
States  —  New  York,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  Vir- 
ginia, and  the  two  Carolinas,  and  it  is  expected  that  the  deputies 
from  Massachusetts,  G)nnecticut,  and  Georgia  will  be  here  by  Mon- 
day or  Tuesday.  The  State  of  Rhode  Island  has  refused  to  appoint 
deputies,  and  although  New  Hampshire  has  appointed  it  is  thought 
we  shall  be  deprived  of  their  representation  by  no  provision  having 
been  made  for  defraying  their  expenses.  The  State  of  Delaware 
has  tied  up  the  hands  of  her  deputies  by  an  express  direction  to 
retain  the  principle  in  the  present  Confederation  of  each  State  hav- 
ing the  same  vote;  no  other  State,  so  far  as  we  have  yet  seen,  hath 
restrained  its  deputies  on  any  subject. 

Nothing  was  done  yesterday  but  unanimously  appointing 
General  Washington  President;  Major  Jackson  (by  a  majority  of 
five  States  to  two)  Secretary;  reading  the  credentials  from  the 
different  States  on  the  floor,  and  appointing  a  committee  to  draw  up 
and  report  the  rules  of  proceeding.  It  is  expected  our  doors  will  be 
shut,  and  communications  upon  the  business  of  the  Convention  be 
forbidden  during  its  sitting.  This  I  think  myself  a  proper  precaut- 
ion to  prevent  mistakes  and  misrepresentation  until  the  business 
shall  have  been  completed,  when  the  whole  may  have  a  very 
different  complexion  from  that  in  which  the  several  crude  and 
indigested  parts  might  in  their  first  shape  appear  if  submitted  to 
the  public  eye. 

*  Rowland,  Life  of  George  Masons  II,  103-4. 


APPENDIX  A,   XXIV  29 

XXIV.  Edmund  Randolph  to  Beverley  Randolph.^ 

Philadelphia,  May  27,  1787. 
Seven  States  met  on  friday,  appointed  a  committee  to  prepare 
rules,  and  adjourned  'till  Monday.  In  four  or  five  days  we  shall 
probably  have  every  State  represented,  except  Rhode  Island,  which 
has  peremptorily  refused  to  appoint  deputies,  and  new  Hampshire, 
of  which  we  can  hear  nothing  certain  but  her  friendly  temper  towards 
the  Union.  I  aught,  however,  to  add,  that  a  respectable  minority 
in  R.  Island  are  solicitous  that  their  State  should  participate  in  the 
Convention.  

XXV.  George  Washington:  Diary.* 

Monday^  [May]  28.  —  Met  in  Convention  at  10  o'clock.  Two 
States  more,  viz.:  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut  being  represented, 
made  nine  more  on  the  floor;  proceeded  to  the  establishment  of  rules 
for  the  government  of  the  Convention  and  adjourned  about  2  o'clock. 

Tuesday y  29.  —  The  same  number  of  States  met  in  the  Conven- 
tion as  yesterday.  

XXVI.  William  Blount  to  Governor  Caswell.* 

New  York,  May  28th,  1787. 
Soon  after  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Spaight  at  Philadelphia  he  informed 
me  by  letter  that  he  had  brought  with  him  a  Commission  for  me  to 
attend  the  Convention  at  the  place  and  Stead  of  your  Excellency. 
I  had  been  for  some  time  before,  and  at  this  time,  too  indisposed 
to  undertake  a  journey  so  far  as  Philadelphia;  at  present  I  am  much 
on  the  Recovery  and  shall  leave  this  in  a  few  days  to  attend  the 
duties  of  that  appointment.  On  the  24th  Inst.,  only  Six  States 
had  appeared,  among  which  North  Carolina  included  and  had  four 
Members  present;  on  the  25th  there  were  Seven  and  at  that  period 
the  Delegates  from  Massachusetts  had  passed  through  this  City. 
North  Carolina  being  so  strongly  represented  and  no  Convention 
being  formed  until  this  day  (if  to-day)  my  absence  as  yet  have  been 
certainly  of  no  moment,  indeed  I  have  not  the  Vanity  to  suppose 
my  presence  and  assistance  will  be  of  much  avail  in  so  arduous  a 
Business  as  the  Amending  the  Confederation.  For  some  days  past 
not  more  than  five  States  have  appeared  on  the  Floor  of  Congress 
Chamber,  it  is  Generally  believed  that  there  will  not  appear  a  Suffi- 
cient Number  to  form  a  Congress  until  the  Convention  rises. 

*  Firginia  CaUndar  of  StaU  Papers,  TV,  291. 

'  Pennjybania  Magaxine  of  History  and  Biography,  XI,  299. 

*  North  Carolina  StaU  Records,  XX,  706-7. 


30       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

XXVII.   William  Grayson  to  James  Monroe.^ 

N  York  May  29th.  1787. 

The  draught  made  from  Congress  of  members  for  the  Conven- 
tion has  made  them  very  thin  &  no  business  of  course  is  going  on 
here:  I  do  not  believe  that  this  will  be  the  case  untill  that  body 
shall  be  dissolved,  which  I  hardly  think  will  be  the  case  these  three 
months.  What  will  be  the  result  of  their  meeting  I  cannot  with  any 
certainty  determine,  but  I  hardly  think  much  good  can  come  of  it: 
the  people  of  America  don't  appear  to  me  to  be  ripe  for  any  great 
innovations  &  it  seems  they  are  ultimately  to  ratify  or  reject:  the 
weight  of  Genl.  Washington  as  you  justly  observe  is  very  great  in 
America,  but  I  hardly  think  it  is  sufficient  to  induce  the  people  to 
pay  money  or  part  with  power. 

The  delegates  from  the  Eastwd.  are  for  a  very  strong  govern- 
ment, &  wish  to  prostrate  all  ye.  state  legislature,  &  form  a  general 
system  out  of  ye.  whole;  but  I  don't  learn  that  the  people  are  with 
them,  on  ye.  contrary  in  Massachuzets  they  think  that  government 
too  strong  &  are  about  rebelling  again,  for  the  purpose  of  making 
it  more  democratical:  In  Connecticut  they  have  rejected  the 
requisition  for  ye.  present  year  decidedly,  &  no  Man  there  would 
be  elected  to  the  office  of  a  constable  if  he  was  to  declare  that  he  meant 
to  pay  a  copper  towards  the  domestic  debt:  —  R.  Island  has  refused 
to  send  members  —  the  cry  there  is  for  a  good  government  after 
they  have  paid  their  debts  in  depreciated  paper:  —  first  demolish 
the  Philistines  /  i,  e,  their  Creditors/  &  then  for  propriety. 

N  Hamshire  has  not  paid  a  shilling,  since  peace,  &  does  not  ever 
mean  to  pay  one  to  all  eternity:  —  if  it  was  attempted  to  tax  the 
people  for  ye  domestic  debt  500  Shays  would  arise  in  a  fortnight.  — 
In  N.  York  they  pay  well  because  they  can  do  it  by  plundering  N 
Jersey  &  Connecticut.  —  Jersey  will  go  great  lengths  from  motives 
of  revenge  and  Interest:  Pensylvany  will  join  provided  you  let 
the  sessions  of  the  Executive  of  America  be  fixed  in  Philada.  &  give 
her  other  advantages  in  trade  to  compensate  for  the  loss  of  State 
power.  I  shall  make  no  observations  on  the  southern  States,  but 
I  think  they  will  be/  perhaps  from  different  motives/  as  little  dis- 
posed to  part  with  efficient  power  as  any  in  the  Union. 


XXVIII.   Henry  Knox  to  General  Washington.* 

New- York  29  May  1787 
As  you  will  have  states  sufficient  to  proceed  to  business,  we  hope 

*  Docununtary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  170-171. 
'  Docununtary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  171. 


APPENDIX  A,   XXIX  3 1 

to  hear  by  the  post  of  this  day  that  you  are  completely  organized, 
Mr  Peirce,  &  Mr  Houston  from  Georgia  set  off  from  this  place  for 
Philadelphia  yesterday.  Mr  Sherman  &  Doctor  Johnson  will  be 
in  Philadelphia  in  the  course  of  the  week.  I  have  not  heard  any 
thing  from  New  Hampshire,  but  I  am  persuaded,  from  circum- 
stances, that  the  delegates  from  that  state  will  be  with  you  by  the 
loth  of  June.  I  am  indeed  happy  that  the  convention  will  be  so 
full,  as  to  feel  a  confidence  that  they  represent  the  great  majority 
of  the  people  of  the  United  States. 


XXIX.   W.  R.  Davie  to  James  Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia,  May  30th,  1787. 

After  a  very  fatiguing  and  rapid  journey  I  arrived  here  on  the 
22d.  The  gentlemen  of  the  Convention  had  been  waiting  from  day 
to  day  for  the  presence  of  seven  States;  on  the  25th  the  members 
from  Jersey  attended,  and  Gen.  Washington  was  chosen  President. 
Yesterday  nine  States  were  represented,  and  the  great  business  of 
the  meeting  was  brought  forward  by  Virginia,  with  whom  the  propo- 
sition for  a  Convention  had  originated. 

As  no  progress  can  yet  be  expected  in  a  business  so  weighty, 
and,  at  the  same  time,  so  complicated,  you  will  not  look  for  any 
news  now  from  this  quarter. 


XXX.   George  Washington  to  Thoicas  Jefferson.* 

Philadelphia  30th  May  1787. 

But,  having  since  been  appointed  by  my  native  State  to  attend 
the  national  convention,  and  having  been  pressed  to  a  compliance 
in  a  manner,  which  it  hardly  becomes  me  to  describe,  I  have,  in  a 
measure,  been  obliged  to  sacrifice  my  own  sentiments,  and  to  be 
present  in  Philadelphia.    .  .  . 

The  business  of  this  convention  is  as  yet  too  much  in  embryo 
to  form  any  opinion  of  the  conclusion.  Much  is  expected  from  it 
by  some;  not  much  by  others;  and  nothing  by  a  few.  That  some- 
thing is  necessary,  none  will  deny;  for  the  situation  of  the  gen- 
eral government,  if  it  can  be  called  a  government,  is  shaken  to  its 
foundation,  and  liable  to  be  overturned  by  every  blast.  In  a  word, 
it  is  at  an  end;  and,  unless  a  remedy  is  soon  applied,  anarchy  and 
confusion  will  inevitably  ensue. 

^  McRee,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Janus  Iredell^  II,    161. 
•  W.  C.  Ford,  Writings  of  George  WashingUm,  XI,  158-159. 


32      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

XXXI.   George  Washington:  Diary.^ 

Wednesday^  [May]  30.  —  Convention  as  yesterday.    .  .  . 

Thursday f  31.  —  Convention  representation  increased  by  com- 
ing in  of  the  State  of  Georgia,  occasioned  by  the  arrival  of  Maj. 
Pierce  and  Mr.  Houston.    .  .  . 

Friday y  June  i.  —  Convention  as  yesterday. 


XXXII.*  George  Mason  to  George  Mason,  jr.* 

Philadelphia,  June  ist,  1787. 

The  idea  I  formerly  mentioned  to  you,  before  the  Convention 
met,  of  a  great  national  council,  consisting  of  two  branches  of  the 
legislature,  a  judiciary  and  an  executive,  upon  the  principle  of  fair 
representation  in  the. legislature,  with  powers  adapted  to  the  great 
objects  of  the  Union,  and  consequently  a  control  in  these  instances, 
on  the  State  legislatures,  is  still  the  prevalent  one.  Virginia  has  had 
the  honor  of  presenting  the  outlines  of  the  plan,  upon  which  the 
convention  is  proceeding;  but  so  slowly  that  it  is  impossible  to 
judge  when  the  business  will  be  finished,  most  probably  not  before 
August — fesiina  lente  may  very  well  be  called  our  motto.  When 
I  first  came  here,  judging  from  casual  conversations  with  gentle- 
men from  the  different  States,  I  was  very  apprehensive  that  soured 
and  disgusted  with  the  unexpected  evils  we  had  experienced  from 
the  democratic  principles  of  our  governments,  we  should  be  apt  to 
run  into  the  opposite  extreme  and  in  endeavoring  to  steer  too  far 
from  Scylla,  we  might  be  drawn  into  the  vortex  of  Charybdis,  of 
which  I  still  think  there  is  some  danger,  though  I  have  the  pleasure 
to  find  in  the  convention,  many  men  of  fine  republican  principles. 
America  has  certainly,  upon  this  occasion,  drawn  forth  her  first  char- 
acters; there  are  upon  this  Convention  many  gentlemen  of  the  most 
respectable  abilities,  and  so  far  as  I  can  discover,  of  the  purest  inten- 
tions. The  eyes  of  the  United  States  are  turned  upon  this  assembly, 
and  their  expectations  raised  to  a  very  anxious  degree. 

May  God  grant,  we  may  be  able  to  gratify  them,  by  establish- 
ing a  wise  and  just  government.  For  my  own  part,  I  never  before 
felt  myself  in  such  a  situation;  and  declare  I  would  not,  upon  pecuni- 
ary motives,  serve  in  this  convention  for  a  thousand  pounds  per 
day.  The  revolt  from  Great  Britain  and  the  formations  of  our  new 
governments   at  that  time,  were  nothing  compared  to  the  great 

^  Pennsybanui  Magatine  of  History  and  Biography^  XI,  299-300. 
*  For  Diary  of  William  Samuel  Johnsoa,  June  i-  September  18,  tee  Supplement 
to  Appendix  A,  CCCCII.  ^ 

'  Rowland,  Life  of  George  Mason^  II,  129-130. 


APPENDIX  A,  XXXIII  33 

business  now  before  us;  there  was  then  a  certain  degree  of  enthu- 
siasm,  which  inspired  and  supported  the  mind;  but  to  view,  through 
the  calm,  sedate  medium  of  reason  the  influence  which  the  establish- 
ment now  proposed  may  have  upon  the  happiness  or  misery  of 
millions  yet  unborn,  is  an  object  of  such  magnitude,  as  absorbs, 
and  in  a  manner  suspends  the  operations  of  the  human  understand- 
ing.   .  .  . 

All  communications  of  the  proceedings  are  forbidden  during  the 
sitting  of  the  Convention;  this  I  think  was  a  necessary  precaution 
to  prevent  misrepresentations  or  mistakes;  there  being  a  material 
difference  between  the  appearance  of  a  subject  in  its  first  crude  and 
undigested  shape,  and  after  it  shall  have  been  properly  matured  and 
arranged.  

XXXIII.   George  Washington:  Diary.^ 

Saturdayy  [June]  2.  —  Major  Jenifer,  coming  in  with  powers 
from  the  State  of  Maryland  authorizing  one  member  to  represent 
it,  added  another  State,  now  eleven,  to  the  convention. 


XXXIV.   Benjamin  Rush  to  Richard  Price.* 

Philadelphia,  June  2nd,  1787. 
Dr  Franklin  exhibits  daily  a  spectacle  of  transcendent  benevo- 
lence by  attending  the  Convention  punctually,  and  even  taking  part 
in  its  business  and  deliberations.  He  says  ^St  is  the  most  august 
and  respectable  Assembly  he  ever  was  in  in  his  life,  and  adds,  that 
he  thinks  they  will  soon  finish  their  business,  as  there  are  no  preju- 
dices to  oppose,  nor  errors  to  refute  in  any  of  the  body."  Mr.  Dick- 
inson (who  is  one  of  them)  informs  me  that  they  are  all  united  in 
their  objects,  and  he  expects  they  will  be  equally  united  in  the  means 
of  attaining  them.  Mr.  Adams's  book  has  diffused  such  excellent 
principles  among  us,  that  there  is  little  doubt  of  our  adopting  a 
vigorous  and  compounded  federal  legislature.  Our  illustrious  mini- 
ster in  this  gift  to  his  country  has  done  us  more  service  than  if  he 
had  obtained  alliances  for  us  with  all  the  nations  of  Europe. 


XXXV,   Jeremiah  Wadsworth  to  Rufus  King.' 

Hartford,  June  3,  1787. 
Yours  of  the  24th  ulto.  came  to  hand  after  our  delegates  had 
set  out.     I  am  satisfied  with  the  appointment  —  except  Sherman, 

*  Pennsyhania  Magazine  of  History  and  Biography,  XI,  300. 

*  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  Proceedings,  Second  Series,  XVII,  367. 
'  C.  R.  Ring,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King,  I,  221. 


34       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

who,  I  am  told,  is  disposed  to  patch  up  the  old  scheme  of  Govern- 
ment. This  was  not  my  opinion  of  him,  when  we  chose  him:  he 
is  as  cunning  as  the  Devil,  and  if  you  attack  him,  you  ought  to  know 
him  well;  he  is  not  easily  managed,  but  if  he  suspects  you  are  trying 
to  take  him  in,  you  may  as  well  catch  an  Eel  by  the  tail. 


XXXVa.   George  Washington:  Diary.* 

Monday f  [June]  4.  —  Convention  as  on  Saturday. 


XXXVI.  George  Washington  to  La  Fayette.* 

Philadelphia,  June  6th  1787. 

It  was,  when  I  came  here,  and  still  is,  my  intention,  to  write  you 
a  long  letter  from  this  place  before  I  leave  it,  but  the  hour  is  not  yet 
come  when  I  can  do  it  to  my  own  Satisfaction  or  for  your  informa- 
tion. I  therefore  shall  wait  till  the  result  of  the  present  meeting  is 
more  matured,  and  till  the  members  who  constitute  it  are  at  liberty 
to  communicate  the  proceedings  more  freely  before  I  attempt  it. 

You  will  I  dare  say,  be  surprized  my  dear  Marquis  to  receive 
a  letter  from  me  at  this  place,  —  you  will  probably,  be  more  so, 
when  you  hear  that  I  am  again  brought,  contrary  to  my  public 
declaration,  and  intention,  on  a  public  theatre  —  such  is  the  viscis- 
situde  of  human  affairs,  and  such  the  frailty  of  human  nature  that 
no  man  I  conceive  can  well  answer  for  the  resolutions  he  enters  into. 

The  pressure  of  the  public  voice  was  so  loud,  I  could  not  resist 
the  call  to  a  convention  of  the  States  which  is  to  determine  whether 
we  are  to  have  a  Government  of  respectability  under  which  life  — 
liberty,  and  property  will  be  secured  to  us,  or  are  to  submit  to  one 
which  may  be  the  result  of  chance  or  the  moment,  springing  per- 
haps from  anarchy  and  Confusion,  and  dictated  perhaps  by  some 
aspiring  demagogue  who  will  not  consult  the  interest  of  his  Country 
so  much  as  his  own  ambitious  views.  What  my  be  the  result  of 
the  present  deliberations  is  more  than  I  am  able,  at  present,  if  I 
was  at  liberty,  to  inform  you,  &  therefore  I  will  make  this  letter 
short,  with  the  assurance  of  being  more  particular  when  I  can  be 
more  satisfactory  —  

XXXVII.  James  Madison  to  Thomas  Jefferson.* 

Philada.  June  6th.  1787. 
The  day  fixed  for  the  meeting  of  the  Convention  was  the  14th. 

'  Pennjyhania  Magaiine  of  History  and  Biography ,  XI,  300. 

'  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  184. 

'  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  181-183. 


APPENDIX  A,   XXXVII  35 

ult:  on  the  25th.  and  not  before  seven  States  were  assembled.  Gen- 
eral Washington  was  placed  una  voce  in  the  chair.  The  Secretary- 
ship was  given  to  Major  Jackson.  The  members  present  are  from 
Massachusetts  Mr.  Gerry,  Mr.  Gorum,  Mr.  King,  Mr.  Strong. 
From  Connecticut  Mr.  Sherman  Doct.  S.  Johnson,  Mr.  Elseworth. 
From  N.  York  Judge  Yates,  Mr.  Lansing,  Col.  Hamilton.  N. 
Jersey,  Govemour  Livingston,  Judge  Brearly,  Mr.  Patterson,  At- 
torney Genl.  (Mr.  Houston  &  Mr.  Qarke  are  absent  members.) 
From  Pennsylvania  Doctr.  Franklyn,  Mr.  Morris,  Mr.  Wilson,  Mr. 
Fitzimmons,  Mr.  G.  Qymer.  Genl.  Mifflin,  Mr.  Govemeur  Morris, 
Mr.  Ingersoll.  From  Delaware  Mr.  Jno.  Dickenson,  Mr.  Reed, 
Mr.  Bedford,  Mr  Broom,  Mr.  Bassett.  From  Maryland  Majr. 
Jenifer  only.  Mr.  McHenry,  Mr.  Danl.  Carrol,  Mr.  Jno.  Mercer, 
Mr.  Luther  Martin  are  absent  members.  The  three  last  have 
supplied  the  resignations  of  Mr.  Stone,  Mr.  Carrol  of  Carolton,  and 
Mr.  T.  Johnson  as  I  have  understood  the  case.  From  Virginia 
Genl.  Washington,  Governor  Randolph,  Mr.  Blair,  Col.  Mason, 
Doer.  McQurg,  J  Madison.  —  Mr.  Wythe  left  us  yesterday,  being 
called  home  by  the  serious  declension  of  his  lady's  health.  From 
N.  Carolina,  Col.  Martin  late  Governor,  Doer.  Williamson,  Mr. 
Spaight,  Col.  Davy.  —  Col.  Blount  is  another  member  but  is  de- 
tained by  indisposition  at  N.  York.  From  S.  Carolina  Mr.  John 
Rutlidge,  Genefal  Pinkney,  Mr.  Charles  Pinkney,  Majr.  Pierce 
Butler.  Mr.  Laurens  is  in  the  Commission  from  that  State,  but 
will  be  kept  away  by  the  want  of  health.  From  Georgia  Col.  Few, 
Majr.  Pierce,  formerly  of  Williamshg.  &  aid  to  Genl.  Greene,  Mr. 
Houston.  —  Mr.  Baldwin  will  be  added  to  them  in  a  few  days. 
Walton  and  Pendleton  are  also  in  the  deputation.  —  N.  Hamshire 
has  appointed  Deputies  but  they  are  not  expected;  the  State  treas- 
ury being  empty  it  is  said,  and  a  substitution  of  private  resorces 
being  inconvenient  or  impracticable.  I  mention  this  circumstance 
to  take  off  the  appearance  of  backwardness,  which  that  State  is  not 
in  the  least  chargeable  with,  if  we  are  rightly  informed  of  her  dis- 
position. Rhode  Island  has  not  yet  acceded  to  the  measure  As 
their  Legislature  meet  very  frequently,  and  can  at  any  time  be  got 
together  in  a  week,  it  is  possible  that  caprice  if  no  other  motive  may 
yet  produce  a  unanimity  of  the  States  in  this  experiment. 

In  furnishing  you  with  this  list  of  names,  I  have  exhausted  all 
the  means  which  I  can  make  use  of  for  gratifying  your  curiosity.  It 
was  thought  expedient  in  order  to  secure  unbiassed  discussion  within 
doors,  and  to  prevent  misconceptions  8c  misconstructions  without, 
to  establish  some  rules  of  caution  which  will  for  no  short  time  restrain 
even  a  confidential  communication  of  our  proceedings.    The  names 


36       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  the  members  will  satisfy  you  that  the  States  have  heen  serious 
in  this  business.  The  attendance  of  Genl,  Washington  is  a  proof 
of  the  light  in  which  he  regards  it.  The  whole  Community  is  big 
with  expectation.  And  there  can  be  no  doubt  but  that  the  result 
will  in  some  way  or  other  have  a  powerful  effect  on  our  destiny. 


XXXVIII.    Edmund  Randolph  to  Beverley  Randolph.^ 

Philadelphia,  June  6,  1787. 
The  prospect  of  a  very  long  sojournment  here  has  determined 
me  to  bring  up  my  family.  They  will  want  about  thirty  pounds 
for  the  expense  of  travelling.  The  Executive  will  therefore  oblige 
me  by  directing  a  warrant  in  my  favor,  to  be  delivered  to  Mrs.  R. 
for  that  amount.    My  account  stands  thus: 

1787.  Dr.  With  the  Comm'lth. 

May  2d  —  To  cash  received     £100.00.* 

57»I2. 

£  42.  8.  now  in  my  hands. 
1787. Cr. 

June  6  —  By  attending  from  the  6th  of  May  to  this  day  (both  in- 
clusive), 32  days,  at  6  dols.  per  day,  which  amount  to 
192  d's,  and  are  equal  to    £57.i2s. 

Twenty-three  or  four  days  more  will  overrun  this  sum,  and  will 
have  elapsed  before  my  family  can  arrive,  so  that  I  trust  there 
will  be  no  difficulty  in  the  advance, 

Mr.  Wythe  has  left  5o£  of  his  money  to  be  distributed  among 
such  of  his  colleagues  as  should  require  it.  ...  We  have  every 
reason  to  expect  harmony  in  the  convention,  altho'  the  currents  of 
opinion  are  various.  But  no  man  can  yet  divine  in  what  form  our 
efforts  against  the  American  crises  will  appear  to  the  public  eye. 
It  will  not  be  settled  in  its  principles  for  perhaps  some  weeks  hence. 


XXXVIIIa.   James  Madison  to  William  Short.* 

Philada.  June  6th.  1787 
The  Convention  has  been  formed  about  12  days.     It  contains 
in  several  instances  the  most  respectable  characters  in  the  U.  S. 

*  Calendar  of  Virginia  StaU  Papers,  IV,  293-294. 

'  "  A  hundred  pounds  was  voted  for  each  of  the  Virginia  delegates,  and  a  vessel 
ordered  to  convey  those  residing  at  Williamsburg,  —  Blair  and  Wythe."  (M.  D. 
Cbnway,  Omitted  Chapters  of  History,  64.) 

*  William  Short  MSS.,  Library  of  Congress. 


APPENDIX  A,   XXXIX  37 

and  in  general  may  be  said  to  be  the  best  contribution  of  talents 
the  States  could  make  for  the  occasion.  What  the  result  of  the 
experiment  may  be  is  among  the  arcana  of  futurity.  Our  affairs 
are  considered  on  all  hands  as  at  a  most  serious  crisis.  No  hope 
is  entertained  from  the  existing  Confederacy.  And  the  eyes  and 
hopes  of  all  are  turned  towards  this  new  assembly.  The  result 
therefore  whatever  it  may  be  must  have  a  material  influence  on  our 
destiny,  and,  on  that  of  the  cause  of  republican  liberty.  The  per- 
sonal characters  of  the  members  promise  much.  The  spirit  which 
they  bring  with  them  seems  in  general  equally  promising.  But 
the  labor  is  great  indeed;  whether  we  consider  the  real  or  imaginary 
difficulties  within  doors  or  without  doors. 


XXXIX.   David  Brearley  to  Jonathan  Dayton.* 

Philadelphia,  9th  June  1787. 
We  have  been  in  a  Committee  of  the  Whole  for  some  time,  and 
have  under  consideration  a  number  of  very  important  propositions, 
none  of  which,  however,  have  as  yet  been  reported.  My  colleagues, 
as  well  as  myself,  are  very  desirous  that  you  should  join  us  immedi- 
ately.   The  importance  of  the  business  really  demands  it. 


XL.   Edward  Carrington  to  Thomas  Jefferson.* 

New  York  June  9,  1787 
The  proposed  scheme  of  a  convention  has  taken  more  general 
effect,  and  promises  more  solid  advantages  than  was  at  first  hoped 
for.  all  the  States  have  elected  representatives  except  Rhode  Island, 
whose  apostasy  from  every  moral,  as  well  as  political,  obligation, 
has  placed  her  perfectly  without  the  views  of  her  confederates;  nor 
will  her  absence,  or  nonconcurrence,  occasion  the  least  impediment 
in  any  stage  of  the  intended  business,  on  friday  the  25th.  Ult. 
seven  States  having  assembled,  at  Philadelphia,  the  Convention 
was  formed  by  the  election  of  General  Washington  President,  and 
Major  W.  Jackson  Secretary  —  the  numbers  have  since  encreased 
to  II  States  —  N.  Hampshire  has  not  yet  arrived,  but  is  daily 
expected. 

The  Commissions  of  these  Gentlemen  go  to  a  thorough  reform 
of  our  confederation  —  some  of  the  States,  at  first,  restricted  their 
deputies  to  commercial  objects,  but  have  since  liberated  them,    the 

1  J.  F.  Jameson,  Stvdus  in  thi  History  of  the  Federal  Convention  in  the  Annual 
Report  of  the  American  Historical  Association  for  1902,  p.  98. 
*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  189-195. 


38      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

latitude  thus  given,  together  with  the  generality  of  the  Commission 
from  the  States,  have  doubtless  operated  to  bring  Genl.  Washington 
forward,  contrary  to  his  more  early  determination  —  his  conduct 
in  both  instances  indicate  a  deep  impression  upon  his  mind,  of  the 
necessity  of  some  material  change  — ... 

Men  are  brought  into  action  who  had  consigned  themselves 
to  an  eve  of  rest,  and  the  Convention,  as  a  Beacon,  is  rousing  the 
attention  of  the  Empire. 

The  prevailing  impression  as  well  in,  as  out  of,  Convention,  is, 
that  a  foederal  Government  adapted  to  the  permanent  circumstances 
of  the  Country,  without  respect  to  the  habits  of  the  day,  be  formed, 
whose  efficiency  shall  pervade  the  whole  Empire:  it  may,  and  prob- 
ably will,  at  first,  be  viewed  with  hesitation,  but,  derived  and  pat- 
ronsed  as  it  will  be,  its  influence  must  extend  into  a  general  adoption 
as  the  present  fabric  gives  way.  that  the  people  are  disposed  to 
be  governed  is  evinced  in  their  turning  out  to  support  the  shadows 
under  which  they  now  live,  and  if  a  work  of  wisdom  is  prepared  for 
them,  they  will  not  reject  it  to  commit  themselves  to  the  dubious 
issue  of  Anarchy. 

The  debates  and  proceedings  of  the  Convention  are  kept  in  pro- 
found secrecy  —  opinions  of  the  probable  result  of  their  delibera- 
tions can  only  be  formed  from  the  prevailing  impressions  of  men 
of  reflection  and  understanding  —  these  are  reducible  to  two  schemes 
—  the  first,  a  consolidation  of  the  whole  Empire  into  one  republic, 
leaving  in  the  states  nothing  more  than  subordinate  courts  for  facili- 
tating the  administration  of  the  Laws  —  the  second  an  investiture 
of  of  a  foederal  sovereignty  with  full  and  independant  authority  as 
to  the  Trade,  Revenues,  and  forces  of  the  Union,  and  the  rights 
of  peace  and  War,  together  with  a  Negative  upon  all  the  Acts  of  the 
State  legislatures,  the  first  idea,  I  apprehend,  would  be  imprac- 
ticable, and  therefore  do  not  suppose  it  can  be  adopted  —  general 
Laws  through  a  Country  embracing  so  many  climates,  productions, 
and  manners,  as  the  United  States,  would  operate  many  oppressions, 
&  a  general  legislature  would  be  found  incompetent  to  the  formation 
of  local  ones,  as  a  majority  would,  in  every  instance,  be  ignorant  of, 
and  unaffected  by  the  objects  of  legislation  —  the  essential  rights, 
as  well  as  advantages,  of  representation  would  be  lost,  and  obedi- 
ence to  the  public  decrees  could  only  be  ensured  by  the  exercise  of 
powers  different  from  those  derivable  from  a  free  constitution  — 
such  an  experiment  must  therefore  terminate  in  a  despotism,  or 
the  same  inconveniencies  we  are  now  deliberating  to  remove.  Some- 
thing like  the  second  will  probably  be  formed  —  indeed  I  am  cer- 
tain that  nothing  less  than  what  will  give  the  foederal  sovereignty  a 


APPENDIX  A,   XLI  39 

compleat  controul  over  the  State  GovernmentSy  will  be  thought 
worthy  of  discussion  —  such  a  scheme  constructed  upon  well  ad- 
justed principles  would  certainly  give  us  stability  and  importance 
as  a  nation,  and  if  the  Executive  powers  can  be  sufficiently  checked, 
must  be  eligible  —  unless  the  whole  has  a  decided  influence  over 
the  parts,  the  constant  effort  will  be  to  resume  the  delegated  powers, 
and  there  cannot  be  an  inducement  in  the  foederal  sovereignty  to 
refuse  its  assent  to  an  innocent  Act  of  a  State,  the  negative  which 
the  King  of  England  had  upon  our  Laws  was  never  found  to  be 
materially  inconvenient        

XLI.     MR.  OTTO  AU  COMTE  DE  MONTMORIN,  SECRETAIRE  d'eTAT  AUX 

AFFAIRES  ETRANGERES.^ 

No.  91. 

» >r        .  A  New  York,  le  10  juin  1787. 

Monseigneur,  ^  •*         '   ' 

Explication  Dans  ma  depeche  No.  85,  je  me  suis  borne  a 

sur   les    plans    soumettre  a  la  Cour  une  idee  generale  des  change- 

de     reforme    mens  qui  doivent  etre  faits  dans  la  Constitution 

projettes  dans    federale   par   la    Convention   de   Philadelphie.     Les 

la  Convention    plans  de  reforme  qui  m'ont  ete  communiques  depuis 

federale    de    me  mettent  en  etat  de  vous  informer  plus  ample- 

Philadelphie.    ment  des  innovations  que  les  deputes  se  proposent 

Differens    d'introduire.     Comme  il  s'agit  de  refondre  entiere- 

partis  qui  s'y    ment   la    constitution    americaine,   j'espere,    Mon- 

opposeront.    seigneur,    que    vous    excuseres  les   longueurs  qu'il 

Opinion    me  sera  impossible  d'eviter.    On  est  rarement  spec- 

que   le  mieux    tateur  d'une  operation   politique   plus   importante 

seroit    de    que  celle-ci,  et  il  est  difficile  de  renfermer  dans  peu 

maintenirla    de  pages  des  objets  qui  doivent  determiner  le  bon- 

confederation    heur,  la  puissance  et  I'energie  future  d'un  Empire 

actuelle.  naissant. 

Le  premier  vice   de  la   Constitution   actuelle, 

Monseigneur,   est  I'inegalite   de  la   representation. 

Tous  les  Etats  ont  une  voix  dans  le  Conseil  federal, 

mais  leur  population,  leur  etendue,  leurs  richesses 

different  a  Tinfini.     La  Georgie,  le  Rhodeisland,  le 

Delaware  ont  en  Congres  la  meme  importance  que 

la  Virginie,  la  Pensylvanie,  le  Massachussets,  quoi- 

que  ces  demiers  Etats  soient  au  moins  cinquante  fois 

plus  peuples  et  plus  opulens   que  les   autres.     II 

*  French  Archives:  Minisiere  des  Affaires  Etrangers,  Arckioes.  EtatsAJnis,    Cor^ 
respondance.yci.  32,  pp.  275  ff. 


46  KtCOKD^  bi?  tHfe  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

s'agit  done  de  diviser  les  Etats  en  districts,  com- 
poses d'un  certain  nombre  d'habitans  et  de  donner 
a  chaque  district  le  droit  d'envoyer  un  depute  en 
Congres.  Parce  moyen,  la  Virginie,  auroit  dn- 
quante  voix  pour  une  de  la  Georgie,  et  une  resolu- 
tion du  Congres  ezprimeroit  le  voeu  de  la  majorite 
des  habitans  et  non  de  la  majoriti  tPune  division 
fortuiu  d^Etats,  Les  deputes  de  tous  les  districts 
formeroient  done  un  corps  politique  semblable  a 
la  Chambre  des  Communes  en  Angleterre.  Les  suf- 
frages y  seroient  comptes  par  tetes  et  non  coUective- 
ment  par  Etats,  et  les  bills  concemant  les  finances 
ne  pourroient  etre  proposes  que  dans  cette  Chambre. 

Mais  les  intrigues  d'un  homme  entreprenant, 
For  d'une  puissance  etrangere,  I'eloquence  funeste 
d'un  membre  accredite  ou  peut  etre  I'avidite  d'un 
marchand  pourroient  y  former  un  parti  contraire 
au  bien  general.  Pour  eviter  cet  inconvenient,  on 
propose  une  autre  branche  legislative  qu'on  pourroit 
appeller  le  Senat  et  qui  ressembleroit  quant  a  ses 
fonctions  a  la  Chambre  haute  du  Parlement  d'Angle- 
terre.  Les  senateurs  seroient  elus  par  la  Chambre 
des  deputes  en  proportion  des  suffrages  de  chaque 
Etat.  Aucune  resolution  ne  pourroit  avoir  force  de 
loi  qu'apres  avoir  ete  approuvee  par  la  majorite  des 
deux  Chambres. 

II  seroit  cependant  encore  possible  que  le  grand 
nombre  d'affaires  fit  precipiter  des  resolutions  im- 
portantes.  Un  President  elu  pour  six  annees  et 
son  Conseil  compose  des  differens  Ministres  d'Etats 
auroient  done  le  droit  d'examiner  ces  resolutions 
avant  qu'elles  fussent  publiees  et  de  les  remettre 
de  nouveau  sous  les  yeux  des  deux  Chambres.  Dans 
ce  cas,  il  faudroit  une  majorite  de  deux  tiers  des 
representans  pour  faire  passer  une  loi. 

Mais  malgre  toutes  ces  precautions,  on  ne 
pourroit  encore  etre  sur  que  d'une  bonne  legislation^ 
dont  le  Congres,  meme  dans  sa  forme  actuelle,  s'est 
asses  bien  acquitte.  II  n'en  est  pas  de  meme  de  la 
branche  exicutivcy  puisque  cette  assemblee  n'a  eu 
jusqu'ici  que  le  droit  de  recommandety  aux  differens 
Etats  les  mesures  qui  lui  paroissoient  etre  les  plus 
avantageuses.    D'apres  les  nouveaux  plans,  le  Presi- 


APPENDIX  A,   XLI  4I 

dent  et  son  Conseil  auroient  le  droit  d'executer  par 
la  force  les  resolutions  du  Conseil  federal,  a  peu  pres 
de  la  meme  maniere  dont  I'Empereur  fait  executer 
les  decrets  de  la  diete  de  Ratisbonne,  en  faisant 
marcher  des  troupes  ou  en  ordonnant  a  plusleurs 
Etats  voisins  d'envahir  le  Gouvemment  qui  refuseroit 
de  se  soumettre  a  la  volonte  collective  des  Etats. 

Cette  demiere  partie  du  projet,  Monseigneur, 
eprouvera  les  plus  grandes  difficultes,  et,  quoique 
plusieurs  deputes,  comptent  la  faire  passer  il  m'est 
impossible  de  I'esperer.  Les  interets  des  petits 
Etats  seroient  bientot  sacrifies  auz  vues  ambitieuses 
de  leurs  voisins,  qui,  ayant  I'avantage  d'avoir  en 
Congres  une  representation  beaucoup  plus  nom- 
breuse,  seroient  toujours  surs  de  la  majorite. 

Les  reformateurs  observent  ensuite  combien  il 
est  difficile  d'obtenir  pour  une  innovation  quelconque 
le  consentement  de  treize  Etats,  ainsi  qu'il  est 
statue  par  I'ancienne  Constitution.  L'opposition 
d'un  seul  Etat  a  empeche  depuis  quatre  ans  I'estab- 
lissement  d'un  droit  de  5  pour  o|o  sur  les  importa- 
tions, droit  qui  auroit  suffi  a  tous  les  besolns  de  la 
confederation.  Cette  faculte,  presqu'  aussi  ruin- 
euse  pour  les  Etats-Unis  que  I'a  ete  le  liberum  veto 
pour  la  republique  de  Pologne,  est  entierement 
incompatible  avec  un  gouvemment  bien  ordonne. 
On  propose  en  consequence  que  desormais  le  suf- 
frage de  dix  Etats  soit  suffisant  pour  toute  altera- 
tion que  les  circonstances  pourront  rendre  necessaire 
dans  le  systeme  general,  et  que  tout  Etat  qui 
refusera  de  s'y  conformer  soit  exclu  pour  toujours 
de  la  confederation. 

Pour  mettre  fin  aux  contradictions  qui  se  trouvent 
quelquefois  entre  les  loix  des  Etats  particuliers  et 
celles  du  gouvemement  general,  on  propose  de  nom- 
mer  un  Committe  des  deux  Chambres,  chagre  d'ex- 
aminer  toutes  les  loix  des  Etats  individuels  et  de 
rejetertoutes  celles  qui  seront  contraires  aux  maximes 
et  aux  vues  du  Congres.  Les  Etats  seront  surtout 
prives  de  la  faculte  de  faire  aucun  reglement  de 
commerce  ou  de  statuer  sur  aucun  objet  relatif  au 
droit  des  gens  et  le  Congres  se  reservera  exclusive- 
ment  cette  branche  de  legislation. 


42       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Les  deux  Chambres  du  G>ngre8y  de  concert  avec 
le  Conseil  de  revision,  auroient  le  droit  exclusif  de 
determiner  le  nombre  de  troupes  et  de  vaisseauz 
necessaire  pour  soutenir  la  majeste  de  peuple  ameri- 
cain,  et,  sans  demander  le  consentement  particulier 
des  Etats,  ils  pourroient  repartir  les  taxes  et  les 
impots  de  la  maniere  qui  leur  paroitroit  la  plus 
equitable,  et,  en  cas  de  refus  d'un  Etat  particulier, 
le  Congres  pourroit  y  lever  par  ses  propres  ofiiciers 
le  double  de  son  contingent  pour  le  punir  de  son 
opposition. 

Les  deputes,  Monseigneur,  qui  m'ont  communi- 
que ces  differens  projets,  sont  determines  a  les 
soutenir  avec  vigueur  dans  I'assemblee  de  Phila- 
delphie.  Je  ne  repeterai  pas  ici  les  doutes  que  j'ai 
exprimes  ailleurs  sur  leur  succes;  mais  il  est  de  mon 
devoir  de  vous  soumettre  I'opinion  d'une  autre  classe 
d'hommes,  dont  le  parti  sera  egalement  fort  et  pent 
etre  plus  obstine  dans  Tassemblee  dont  il  s'agit. 

Ces  hommes  observent  que,  dans  la  situation 
actuelle  des  choses,  il'est  impossible  de  reunir  sous 
un  seul  Chef  tous  les  membres  se  la  confederation. 
Leurs  interets  politiques,  leurs  vues  commercials, 
leurs  habitudes  et  leurs  loix  sont  si  heterogenes,  qu'il 
n'y  a  pas  une  resolution  du  Congres  qui  puisse  etre 
egalement  utile  et  populaire  au  Sud  et  au  Nord  du 
Continent;  leur  jalousie  meme  paroit  etre  un  ob- 
stacle insurmontable.  Pendant  la  guerre,  les  Etats 
avoient  un  interet  general  de  repousser  des  ennemis 
puissants  et  cruels;  cet  interet  n'existe  plus,  pourquoi 
reparer  un  edifice  qui  n'a  plus  memede  fondemens? 
Le  commerce  devient  desormais  la  principale  base 
du  systeme  politique  de  ces  Etats.  Les  habitans 
du  Nord  sont  pecheurs  et  navigateurs,  ceux  du 
Centre  fermiers,  ceux  du  Sud  planteurs.  Leur 
legislation  doit  encourager,  ameliorer,  perfectionner 
les  differentes  branches  de  leur  Industrie.  Dire 
que  le  Congres  pourra  faire  des  reglemens  particu- 
liers  et  utiles  pour  chacune  de  ces  branches,  c'est 
dire  que  le  Congres  n'aura  point  de  passions,  que 
I'intrigue  n'aura  jamais  aucune  part  a  ses  mesures, 
que  les  interets  du  Nord  ne  seront  jamais  sacrifies 
a  ceux  du  Sud:    chose  theoriquement  impossible  et 


APPENDIX  A,   XLI  43 

reconnue  fausse  par  I'ezperience.  ''Dan8  cette 
^crise,  continuent  les  partisans  de  ce  systeme,  il 
'ne  reste  qu'un  moyen  pour  donner  a  chaque  Etat 
'toute  I'energie  dont  il  est  susceptible,  c'est  de 
'diviser  le  continent  en  plusieurs  confederations 
Mont  chacune  auroit  un  gouvemement  general  et 
Mndependant  des  autres.  Cette  division  n'est  pas 
Mifiicile;  la  nature  paroit  I'avoir  indiquee.  La 
'confederation  du  Nord  pourroit  etre  composee  du 
'New-Hampshire,  du  Massachussets,  du  Rhode- 
'  Island,  du  G>necticut,  du  Vermont  et  de  I'etat 
Me  New  York  jusqu'a  la  riviere  d'Hudson.  La 
'confederation  du  Centre  contiendroit  tout  le  pays 
'situe  entre  cette  riviere  et  le  Potowmac,  et  celle 
^du  Sud  seroit  composee  de  la  Virginie,  des  deux 
'Carolines  et  de  la  Georgie.  Les  productions,  les 
'interets,  les  loiz,  meme  les  moeurs  des  habitans  se 
'trouveroient  ainsi  classes  suivant  leurs  differentes 
'nuances,  et  les  trois  Gouvemmens  se  fortiffieroient 
'en  raison  de  leur  arrondissement  et  de  Tidentite 
'de  leurs  vues  politiques.  Qu'on  ne  dise  point 
'qu'une  de  ces  divisions  tomberoit  facilement  sous 
'le  joug  d'une  nation  etrangere;  n'a-t-on  pas  vu 
'souvent  en  Europe  plusieurs  puissances  reunies 
'contre  une  autre  puissance  qui  menagoit  de  les 
'envahir?  Des  traites  d'alliance  entre  les  differens 
'Etats  serviroient  d'un  lien  commun  et  produiroient 
'le  meme  effet  q'une  confederation  generale." 

Les  Cincinnati,  c'est  a  dire  les  officiers  de  I'an- 
cienne  armee  americaine,  sont  interesses  a  I'estab- 
lissement  d'un  Gouvemement  solide,  puisqu'ils 
sont  tons  creanciers  du  public,  mais,  considerant 
la  foiblesse  du  Conseil  national  et  I'impossibilite 
d'etre  payes  par  la  presente  administration,  ils  pro- 
posent  de  jeter  tons  les  Etats  dans  une  seule  masse 
et  de  mettre  a  leur  tete  le  gal.  Washington  avec 
toutes  les  prerogatives  et  les  pouvoirs  d'une  tete 
couronnee.  lis  menacent  meme  de  faire  eux  memes 
cette  revolution  les  armes  a  la  main,  aussitot  qu'ils 
seront  convainous  de  I'inutilite  de  la  Convention 
actuelle.  Ce  Projet  est  trop  eztravaguant  pour 
meriter  la  moindre  discussion.  La  Societe  des 
Cincinnati,  qui  s'est  formee  sans  aucune  sanction 


44 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


publique,  s'avise  aujourd'hui  dc  regler  la  consti- 
tution politique,  sans  y  avoir  ete  authorisee  par  les 
peuples;  mais  elle  est  trop  foible  et  trop  impopulaire 
pour  faire  aucune  impression. 

Un  quatrieme  parti,  et  pent  etre  celui  qui  trom- 
phera  de  tous  les  autres,  propose  de  laisser  les  choses 
sur  le  pied  actuel.  L'Etat  de  Rhode-Island,  le 
gouvemeur  et  les  principaux  chefs  de  I'administra- 
tion  de  New  York,  M.  John  Adams  et  un  grand 
nombre  d'individus  dans  les  differens  Etats  sont 
de  ce  parti.  "Nous  ne  trouvons  pas,  disent-ils, 
"que  la  situation  des  Etats-Unis  soit  si  malheureuse 
"qu'on  veut  nous  le  faire  accroire.  Nos  villes  et 
"notre  population  s'augmentent  joumellement,  nos 
"vastes  territoires  se  defrichent,  notre  commerce 
"et  notre  Industrie  s'etendent  prodigieusement;  si 
"quelques  districts  manquent  d'or  et  d'argent,  nous 
'Meurs  donnons  du  papier  qui  leur  en  tient  lieu;  si 
"nous  ne  sommes  pas  respecte  en  Europe,  nous  ne 
"le  serons  pas  da  vantage  apres  avoir  sacrifie  a  un 
"corps  souverain  une  partie  de  notre  liberte.  Nos 
"creanciers  etrangers  seront  payes  quand  nous  en 
"aurons  les  moyens  et  jusques  la  ils  ne  peuvent  nous 
"faire  aucun  mal.  Pourquoi  changer  un  systeme 
"politique  qui  a  fait  prosperer  les  Etats,  et  qui  n'a 
"d'autre  inconvenient  que  celui  de  differer  le  paye- 
"ment  de  nos  dettes?  Un  Gouvemement  plus 
"absolu  nous  ezposeroit  au  despotisme*  d'une  as- 
"semblee  aristocratique  ou  au  caprice,  d'un  seul 
"homme,  car  comment  s'imaginer  que  des  membres 
"du  Congres,  pouvant  disposer  librement  d'une 
"armee,  d'une  flotte,  d'un  tresor  grossi  par  les  con- 
"tributions  de  tous  les  Etats,  veuillent  rentrer  au 
"bout  d'un  an  dans  la  classe  ordinaire  des  citoyens, 
"  echanger  et  I'administration  publique  contre  celle 
"  d'une  ferme.  II  importe  a  notre  liberte  que  le 
"Congres  ne  soit  qu'un  simple  corps  diplomatique, 
"et  non  une  assemblee  souveraine  et  absoluc." 

Parmi  cette  grande  variete  de  projets,  il  sera 
bien  difficile  pour  I'assemblee  de  Philadelphie 
d'adopter  un  plan  qui  puisse  convenir  a  tous  les 
partis  et  a  tous  les  Etats.  S'il  m'etoit  permis, 
Monseigneur,  d'avoir  une  opinion,  je  me  rangerois 


APPENDIX  A,   XLII  45 

du  cote  de  ceux  qui  proposcnt  de  ne  rien  changer  a 
la  confederation  actuelle,  non  que  je  pense  qu'elle 
rendra  plutot  justice  auz  creanciers  etrangers  ou 
domestiques,  ni  qu'elle  donnera  plus  d'edat  auz 
Etats-Unis,  ni  meme  qu'elle  conservera  plus  long- 
temps  I'union  et  la  bonne  intelligence  entre  ses 
membres,  mais  parce  qu'elle  convient  mieuz  que 
tout  autre  systeme  politique  a  I'esprit  des  peuples. 
Les  hommes  riches,  les  negocians,  les  officiers  pub- 
lics, les  Cincinnati  sont  tons  portes  pour  un  gouveme- 
ment  plus  absolu,  mais  leur  nombre  est  bien  petit 
quand  on  le  compare  a  toute  la  masse  des  citoyens. 

Quoi  qu'il  en  soit,  la  Convention  generale  vient 
de  commencer  ses  seances  apres  avoir  elu  unanime- 
ment  le  gal.  Washington  pour  President.  Cette 
nomination  donnera  certainement  plus  d'eclat  a 
tout  ce  qui  emanera  de  cette  assemblee  importante 
et  respectable.  On  espere  que  ses  resolutions  por- 
teront  le  sceau  de  la  sagesse,  de  la  moderation,  de 
la  prevoyance,  qui  forment  les  principauz  traits 
dans  le  caractere  du  general. 

Je  laisse,  Monseigneur,  a  des  personnes  plus 
habiles  que  moi  le  soin  de  demeler  quelle  espece  de 
gouvemement  conviendroit  le  plus  a  nos  interets 
en  Amerique,  et  je  me  borne  a  leur  foumir  des 
materiauz. 

Je  suis  avec  un  profund  respect,  Monseigneur, 
votre  tres  humble  et  tres  obeissant  serviteur, 

Otto. 

XLII.    Elbridge  Gerry  to  James  Monroe.^ 

Philadelphia  nth  June  1787 
The  Convention  is  proceeding  in  their  arduous  undertaking  with 
eleven  States:  under  an  Injunction  of  Secrecy  on  their  Members  — 
New  Hamshire  have  elected  Members  who  are  soon  ezpected,  the 
object  of  this  Meeting  is  very  important  in  my  Mind  —  unless  a 
System  of  Government  is  adopted  by  Compact^  Force  I  ezpect  will 
plant  the  Standard:  for  such  an  anarchy  as  now  ezists  cannot  last 
long.  Gentlemen  seem  to  be  impressed  with  the  Necessity  of  estab- 
lishing some  efficient  System,  &  I  hope  it  will  secure  Us  against 
domestic  as  well  as  foreign  Invasions  — 

^  Documtniary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  199-200. 


46       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

XLIII.    R.  D.  Spaight  to  Governor  Caswell.* 

Philadelphia,  12th  June,  1787. 

I  should  have  done  myself  the  pleasure  of  writing  to  your  Excel- 
lency oftener  than  I  have  done,  but  not  being  at  Liberty  to  Com- 
municate anything  that  passes  in  the  Convention,  I  have  nothing 
to  write  about. 

The  time  it  will  require  for  the  Convention  to  finish  the  business 
they  have  before  them  being  entirely  uncertain  the  deputies  are  of 
opinion  that  a  further  advance  of  two  months'  Salary  will  be  neces- 
sary, and  have  wrote  to  your  Excellency  on  that  Subject  by  this 
Post,  should  your  Excellency  think  proper  to  grant  us  warrants 
for  two  months'  Salary  in  addition  to  those  we  have  already  drawn.* 


XLIV.   North  Carolina  Delegates  to  Governor  Caswell.* 
„.  Philadelphia,  June  14th,  1787. 

By  the  date  of  this  you  will  observe  we  are  near  the  middle  of 
June  and  though  we  sit  from  day  to  day,  Saturdays  included,  it  is 
not  possible  for  us  to  determine  when  the  business  before  us  can  be 
finished,  a  very  large  Field  presents  to  our  view  without  a  single 
Straight  or  eligible  Road  that  has  been  trodden  by  the  feet  of  Nations. 
An  Union  of  Sovereign  States,  preserving  their  Civil  Liberties  and 
connected  together  by  such  Tyes  as  to  Preserve  permanent  &  effec- 
tive Governments  is  a  system  not  described,  it  is  a  Circumstance 
that  has  not  Occurred  in  the  History  of  men;  if  we  shall  be  so  fortu- 
nate as  to  find  this  in  descript  our  Time  will  have  been  well  spent. 
Several  Members  of  the  Convention  have  their  Wives  here  and  other 
Gentlemen  have  sent  for  theirs.  This  Seems  to  promise  a  Summer's 
Campaign.  Such  of  us  as  can  remain  here  from  the  inevitable  avo- 
cation of  private  business,  are  resolved  to  Continue  whilst  there  is 
any  Prospect  of  being  able  to  serve  the  State  &  Union.  Your  Excel- 
lency is  sufficiently  informed  that  the  Money  of  our  State  is  sub- 
ject to  Considerable  Decrements  when  reduced  to  Current  Coin, 
however  it  may  serve  as  an  Auxiliary  by  which  some  of  the  incon- 
veniencies  may  be  relieved  which  must  necessarily  attend  our  con- 
tinuance abroad  for  a  much  longer  Time  than  was  expected;  for 
this  Reason  we  submit  to  your  Consideration  the  Propriety  of  fur- 
nishing us  with  an  additional  Draught  for  two  months'  Service,  in 
case  of  our  return  at  an  earlier  period  than  at  Present  we  have  rea- 

1  North  Carolina  StaU  Records,  XX,  723. 

«  Sec  XLIV  and  LII  below. 

•  North  Carolina  StaU  Records,  XX,  723-724.     See  LII  below. 


APPENDIX  A,   XLV  47 

son  to  apprehend,  we  are  to  Account,  and  perhaps  it  would  be  more 
desirable  that  we  should  have  Occasion  to  repay  a  small  Sum  into 
the  Treasury  than  that  we  should  be  under  the  Necessity  of  Coming 
Home,  the  Public  Service  unfinished  from  the  want  of  supplies. 
We  have  the  Honour  to  be,  with  the  utmost  Consideration,  Sir, 
Your  Excellency's  most  Obedt.  and  Very  Humble  Servants, 

Alex.  Martin, 

Richard  D.   Spaight, 

W.  R.   Davie. 

Hugh  Williamson. 


XLV-   Joseph  Varnum  to  General  Washington.^ 

g.  Newport  June  i8th  1787 

The  inclosed  address,^  of  which  I  presume  your  Excellency  has 
received  a  duplicde,  was  returned  to  me  from  New  York  after  my 
arrival  in  this  State.  I  flatterd  myself  that  our  Legislature,  which 
convened  on  monday  last,  would  have  receded  from  the  resolution 
therein  refer'd  to,  and  have  complied  with  the  recommendation  of 
Congress  in  sending  deligates  to  the  federal  convention.  The  upper 
house,  or  Governor,  &  Council,  embraced  the  measure,  but  it  was 
negatived  in  the  house  of  Assembly  by  a  large  majority,  notwith- 
standing the  greatest  exertions  were  made  to  support  it. 
Being  disappointed  in  their  expectations,  the  minority  in  the  admin- 
istration and  all  worthy  citizens  of  this  State,  whose  minds  are  well 
informd  regreting  the  peculiarities  of  their  Situation  place  their 
fullest  confidence  in  the  wisdom  &  moderation  of  the  national  coun- 
cil, and  indulge  the  warmest  hopes  of  being  favorably  consider'd  in 
their  deliberations.  From  these  deliberations  they  anticipate  a 
political  System  which  must  finally  be  adopted  &  from  which  will 
result  the  Safety,  the  honour,  &  the  happiness  of  the  United  States. 

Permit  me.  Sir,  to  observe,  that  the  measures  of  our  present 
Legislature  do  not  exhibit  the  real  character  of  the  State.  They 
are  equally  reprobated,  &  abhor'd  by  Gentlemen  of  the  learned 
professions,  by  the  whole  mercantile  body,  8c  by  most  of  the 
respectable  farmers  and  mechanicks.  The  majority  of  the  admin- 
istration is  composed  of  a  licentious  number  of  men,  destitute  of 
education,  and   many  of  them.  Void  of  principle.     From  anarchy 

*  Documfniary  History  of  the  Constitution^  I,  277-279.  Although  the  letter  is 
unsigned  it  is  known  to  have  come  from  Joseph  Varnum. 

'  The  address  referred  to  was  that  of  several  gentlemen  of  Rhode  Island  pledging 
their  support  to  the  result  of  the  deliberations  of  the  Convention.  For  the  copy  of 
this  address,  see  above,  VII. 


48       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

and  confusion  they  derive  their  temporary  consequence,  and  this 
they  endeavor  to  prolong  by  debauching  the  minds  of  the  common 
people,  whose  attention  is  wholly  directed  to  the  Abolition  of  debts 
both  public  &  private.  With  these  are  associated  the  disaffected 
of  every  description,  particularly  those  who  were  unfriendly  during 
the  war.  Their  paper  money  System,  founded  in  oppression  & 
fraud,  they  are  determined  to  Support  at  every  hazard.  And  rather 
than  relinquish  their  favorite  pursuit  the  trample  upon  the  most 
sacred  obligations.  As  a  proof  of  this  they  refused  to  comply  with  a 
requisition  of  Congress  for  repealing  all  laws  repugnant  to  the  treaty 
of  peace  with  Great  Britain,  and  urged  as  their  principal  reason,  that 
it  would  be  calling  in  question  the  propriety  of  their  former  measures 
These  evils  may  be  attributed,  partly  to  the  extreme  freedom 
of  our  own  constitution,  and  partly  to  the  want  of  energy  in  the 
federal  Union:  And  it  is  greatly  to  be  apprehended  that  they  can- 
not Speedily  be  removed  but  by  uncommon  and  very  serious  exer- 
tions. It  is  fortunate  however  that  the  wealth  and  resources  of  this 
State  are  chiefly  in  possion  of  the  well  Affected,  &  that  they  are 
intirely  devoted  to  the  public  good. 
I  have  the  honor  of  being  Sir, 

with  the  greatest  Veneration  &  esteem, 
Your  excellencys  very  obedient  & 
most  humble  servant  — 
His  excellency 
Genl  Washington  [Endorsed:] 

No  6. 
Letter  to  General  Washington  dated  Newport  June  i8.  1787. 


XLVI.   Nathan  Dane  to  Rufus  King.^ 

[New  York],  June  19th. 

I  fully  agree  to  the  propriety  of  the  Convention  order  restraining 
its  members  from  communicating  its  doings,  tho'  I  feel  a  strong 
desire  and  curiosity  to  know  how  it  proceeds.  I  think  the  public 
never  ought  to  see  anything  but  the  final  report  of  the  Convention 
—  the  digested  result  only,  of  their  deliberations  and  enquiries. 

Whether  the  plans  of  the  Southern,  Eastern  or  Middle  States 
succeed,  never,  in  my  opinion,  ought  to  be  known.  A  few  reflec- 
tions on  the  subject  lead  me  to  doubt  whether  one  of  your  members, 
Mr.  P.,*  who  two  or  three  days  since  came  to  this  city,  fully  under- 

^  C.  R.  King,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King,  I,  %2$. 
*  Probably  William  Pierce  of  Georgia,  see  Appendix  B. 


APPENDIX  A,   XLVII  49 

Stood  the  true  meaning,  full  and  just  extent  of  the  order  not  to  com- 
municate &c.  

XLVII.    Edmund  Randolph  to  Beverley  Randolph.^ 

Phila.,  June  21,  1787. 
Mr.  Wythe,  before  he  left  us,  requested  that  the  Executive 
might,  if  they  thought  proper,  appoint  a  successor  to  him.  I  in- 
formed him  that  I  doubted  whether,  at  this  advanced  stage  of  the 
business,  they  would  be  so  inclined  —  especially,  too,  as  there  was 
a  hope  of  his  return;  but  that  I  would  mention  the  a£Fair  to  you. 


XLVIIL   Robert  Morris  to  his  Sons  in  Leipzig.' 

June  25,  1787. 
General  Washington  is  now  our  guest,  having  taken  up  his  abode 
at  my  house  during  the  time  he  is  to  remain  in  this  city.  He  is 
President  of  a  convention  of  Delegates  from  the  Thirteen  States  of 
America,  who  have  met  here  for  the  purpose  of  revising,  amending, 
and  altering  the  Federal  Government.  There  are  gentlemen  of 
great  abilities  employed  in  this  Convention,  many  of  whom  were 
in  the  first  Congress,  and  several  that  were  concerned  in  forming 
the  Articles  of  Confederation  now  about  to  be  altered  and  amended. 
You,  my  children,  ought  to  pray  for  a  successful  issue  to  their  labours, 
as  the  result  is  to  be  a  form  of  Government  under  which  you  are 
to  live,  and  in  the  administration  of  which  you  may  hereafter  prob- 
ably have  a  share,  provided  you  qualify  yourselves  by  application 
to  your  studies.  • 

XLIX.   William  Samuel  Johnson  to  his  Son.* 

Philadelphia,  27  June,  1787. 
I  am  here  attending  with  Mr.  Shearman  and  Mr.  Elsworth  as 
delegates,  on  the  part  of  Connecticut,  a  grand  convention  of  the 
United  States,  for  the  purpose  of  strengthening  and  consolidating 
the  union  and  proposing  a  more  efficient  mode  of  government  than 
that  contained  in  the  articles  of  confederation.  We  have  delegates 
from  eleven  states  actually  assembled,  consisting  of  many  of  the  most 
able  men  in  America,  with  General  Washington  at  our  head,  whom 
we  have  appointed  president  of  the  convention.  It  is  agreed  that 
for  the  present  our  deliberations  shall  be  kept  secret,  so  that  I  can 
only  tell  you  that  much  information  and  eloquence  has  been  displayed 

»  Virginia  CaUndar  of  StaU  Papers,  IV,  298. 

'  Pennsylvania  Magaxine  of  History  and  Biogfaphyf  II,  170. 

'  Bancroft,  History  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States^  II,  430. 


50      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

in  the  introductory  speecheSi  and  that  we  have  hitherto  preserved 
great  temperance,  candor,  and  moderation  in  debate,  and  evinced 
much  solicitude  for  the  public  weal.  Yet,  as  was  to  be  expected, 
there  is  great  diversity  of  sentiment,  which  renders  it  impossible 
to  determine  what  will  be  the  result  of  our  deliberations. 


L.   George  Mason  to  Beverley  Randolph.^ 

Philadelphia,  June  30,  1787. 

The  Convention  having  resolved  that  none  of  their  proceedings 
should  be  communicated  during  their  sitting,  puts  it  out  of  my  power 
to  give  you  any  particular  information  upon  the  subject.  Festina 
lente  seems  hitherto  to  have  been  our  maxim.  Things,  however, 
are  now  drawing  to  that  point  on  which  some  of  the  fundamental 
principles  must  be  decided,  and  two  or  three  days  will  probably 
enable  us  to  judge  —  which  is  at  present  very  doubtful  —  whether 
any  sound  and  effectual  system  can  be  established  or  not.  If  it 
cannot,  I  presume  we  shall  not  continue  here  much  longer;  if  it  can, 
we  shall  probably  be  detained  'til  September. 

I  feel  myself  disagreeably  circumstanced  in  being  the  only  mem- 
ber of  the  Assembly  in  the  Virginia  delegation,  and,  consequently, 
if  any  system  shall  be  recommended  by  the  Convention  that  the 
whole  weight  of  explanation  must  fall  upon  me;  and  if  I  should 
be  prevented  by  sickness  or  accident  from  attending  the  Assembly, 
that  it  will  be  difficult  for  the  Assembly  to  obtain  such  information 
as  may  be  necessary  upon  the  subject,  as  I  presume  that  in  the  pro- 
gress through  the  legislature  many  questions  may  be  asked  and  in- 
quiries made,  in  which  satisfactory  information,  from  time  to  time, 
can  hardly  be  given  but  by  a  member  of  the  House  in  his  place. 

We  have  just  received  information  here  that  Mr.  Wythe  has 
made  a  resignation,  and  does  not  intend  to  return.  Under  these 
circumstances  I  would  beg  leave  to  submit  it  to  the  consideration 
of  the  Executive,  whether  it  might  not  be  proper  to  fill  the  vacancy 
in  the  delegation,  occasioned  by  Mr.  Wythe's  resignation,  with  some 
member  of  the  Assembly.  Mr.  Corbin  being  here,  his  appointment, 
if  it  shall  be  judged  proper,  would  occasion  little  additional  charge  to 
the  State,  if  the  Convention  should,  unfortunately,  break  up  without 
adopting  any  substantial  system  —  that  event  will  happen,  I  think 
—  before  the  appointment  can  reach  this  place;  if  the  Convention 
continues  to  proceed  on  the  business,  with  a  prospect  of  success,  Mr. 
Corbin  is  on  the  spot;   and  I  doubt  it  may  be  difficult  to  prevail 

^  Rowland,  Life  and  Correspondince  of  George  Mason,  II,  131-132. 


APPENDIX  A,    LI  51 

on  any  member  of  the  Assembly,  now  in  Virginia,  to  come  hither 
at  this  late  stage  of  the  business. 


LI.   George  Washington  to  David  Stuart.^ 

Philadelphia  July  ist.  1787. 
Rhode  Island,  from  our  last  Accts  sill  persevere  in  that  impolitic 

—  unjust  —  and  one  might  add  without  much  impropriety  scandal- 
ous conduct,  which  seems  to  have  marked  all  her  public  Councils 
of  late;  —  Consequently,  no  Representation  is  yet  here  from  thence. 
New  Hampshire,  tho'  Delegates  have  been  appointed,  is  also  unrepre- 
sented —  various  causes  have  been  assigned  —  whether  well,  or  ill 
founded  I  shall  not  take  upon  me  to  decide  —  The  fact  however  is 
that  they  are  not  here.  Political  contests,  and  want  of  Money,  are 
amidst  the  reasons  assigned  for  the  non  attendance  of  the  members. 

As  the  rules  of  the  Convention  prevent  me  from  relating  any 
of  the  proceedings  of  it,  and  the  gazettes  contain  more  fully  than  I 
could  detail  other  occurrances  of  public  nature,  I  have  little  to  com- 
municate to  you  on  the  article  of  News.  Happy  indeed  would  it 
be  if  the  Convention  shall  be  able  to  recommend  such  a  firm  and 
permanent  Government  for  this  Union,  as  all  who  live  under  it  may 
be  secure  in  their  lives,  liberty  and  property,  and  thrice  happy  would 
it  be,  if  such  a  recommendation  should  obtain.     Every  body  wishes 

—  every  body  expects  some  thing  from  the  Convention  —  but 
what  will  be  the  final  result  of  its  deliberation,  the  book  of  fate  must 
disclose  —  Persuaded  I  am  that  the  primary  cause  of  all  our  dis- 
orders lies  in  the  different  State  Governments,  and  in  the  tenacity 
of  that  power  which  pervades  the  whole  of  their  systems.  Whilst 
independent  sovereignty  is  so  ardently  contended  for,  whilst  the 
local  views  of  each  State  and  seperate  interests  by  which  they  are 
too  much  govem'd  will  not  yield  to  a  more  enlarged  scale  of  poli- 
ticks; incompatibility  in  the  laws  of  different  States,  and  disrespect 
to  those  of  the  general  government  must  render  the  situation  of 
this  great  Country  weak,  inefficient  and  disgraceful.  It  has  already 
done  so,  —  almost  to  the  final  dessolution  of  it  —  weak  at  home  and 
disregarded  abroad  is  our  present  condition,  and  contemptible 
enough  it  is. 

Entirely  unnecessary  was  it,  to  offer  any  apology  for  the  senti- 
ments you  were  so  obliging  as  to  offer  me  —  I  have  had  no  wish 
more  ardent  (thro'  the  whole  progress  of  this  business)  than  that  of 
knowing  what  kind  of  Government  is  best  calculated  for  us  to  live 
under.     No  doubt  there  will  be  a  diversity  of  sentiment  on  this 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  223-225. 


52      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

important  subject;  and  to  inform  the  Judgment,  it  is  necessary  to 
hear  all  arguments  that  can  be  advanced.  To  please  all  is  impossible, 
and  to  attempt  it  would  be  vain;  the  only  way  therefore  is,  under 
all  the  views  in  which  it  can  be  placed  —  and  with  a  due  considera- 
tion to  circumstances  —  habits  —  &cc.  &cc.  to  form  such  a  govern- 
ment as  will  bear  the  scrutinizing  eye  of  criticism  and  trust  it  to  the 
good  sense  and  patriotism  of  the  people  to  carry  it  into  e£Fect. — 
Demagogue,  —  men  who  are  unwilling  to  lose  any  of  their  state 
consequence  —  and  interested  characters  in  each,  will  oppose  any 
general  government:  but  let  these  be  regarded  rightly,  and  Justice 
it  is  to  be  hoped  will  at  length  prevail. 


LII.   Governor  Caswell  to  the  North  Carolina  Delegates.^ 

No.  Carolina,  ist  July,  1787. 
Agreeable  to  your  request  I  have  this  day  drawn  on  the  Col* 
lectors  for  two  months'  allowance  to  each  of  the  deputies  in  service 
of  the  State  in  Convention,  in  addition  to  the  four  months'  allow- 
ance formerly  drawn  for.  Your  Task  is  arduous,  your  undertaking 
is  of  such  magnitude  as  to  require  Time  for  Deliberation  and  Con- 
sideration, and  altho'  I  know  each  Gentleman  must  sensibly  feel 
for  his  own  private  concerns  in  being  so  long  absent  from  them.  Yet 
the  future  happiness  of  the  States  so  much  depends  on  the  determina- 
tion of  the  Convention  I  am  convinced  your  wishes  to  promote  that 
happiness  to  your  Country  are  such  as  to  induce  you  to  attend  to 
the  completing  this  business  if  possible.  Any  thing  I  can  do  which 
may  tend  towards  making  your  stay  agreeable  shall  be  most  chear- 
fuUy  attended  to  &  I  shall  be  most  happy  at  all  times  in  rendering 
you  service  or  receiving  any  communications  or  advice  from  you. 
Mr.  Spaight's  and  Mr.  Williamson's  are  forwarded  to  the  Gentlemen 
by  them  directed;  Mr  Martin's  and  Mr.  Davies'  remain  with  me 
subject  to  their  order.  

LIII.    Phineas  Bond  to  Lord  Carmarthen.* 

Philadelphia  July  2nd.  1787 
The  deliberations  of  the  Convention,  my  Lord,  are  conducted 
with  vast  secrecy;  and  nothing  is  known  with  accuracy  but  that 
their  drift  is  to  endeavor  to  form  such  a  federal  constitution,  as  will 
give  energy  and  consequence  to  the  union.  Whether  this  is  to  be 
done  by  improving  the  old  governments  or  by  substituting  new 
ones  —  whether  by  continuing  a  power  in  each  State  to  regulate 

» North  Carolina  StaU  Records,  XX,  729.    See  XLIII  and  XLIV  above. 
'  Annual  Rgport  of  the  Amitican  Historical  Association  for  1896, 1,  539. 


APPENDIX  A,    Llllfl  53 

its  internal  policy,  or  to  abolish  all  separate  establishments,  and  to 
form  one  grand  federal  authority,  is  a  matter  of  consideration  which 
creates  much  doubt  and  animadversion. 

.  .  .  Even  in  this  crisis  my  Lord  when  the  sober  part  of  the 
continent  looks  up  to  the  Convention  to  prescribe  some  mode  com- 
petent to  remove  existing  evils,  there  is  not  a  complete  delegation 
of  the  States  in  Convention  —  two  of  the  thirteen  are  not  repre- 
sented. New  Hampshire  did  appoint  delegates,  but  as  no  fund  was 
provided  for  their  expenses  and  support  they  declined  attending  — 
The  Assembly  of  Rhode  I  positively  refused  to  appoint,  and  when 
the  motion  was  again  lately  agitated,  it  was  negatived  by  a  majority 
of  17  members.  

Lllla.   George  Washington:  Diary.  ^ 

Monday  J  [July]  2.  —  Dined  with  some  of  the  members  of  Con- 
vention at  Indian  Queen.     

LIV.   Alexander  Hamilton  to  George  Washington.' 

July  3d.  87 
In  my  passage  through  the  Jerseys  and  since  my  arrival  here 
I  have  taken  particular  pains  to  discover  the  public  sentiment  and 
I  am  more  and  more  convinced  that  this  is  the  critical  opportunity 
for  establishing  the  prosperity  of  this  country  on  a  solid  foundation  — 
I  have  conversed  with  men  of  information  not  only  of  this  City  but 
from  different  parts  of  the  state;  and  they  agree  that  there  has  been 
an  astonishing  revolution  for  the  better  in  the  minds  of  the  people. 
The  prevailing  apprehension  among  thinking  men  is,  that  the  Con- 
vention, from  a  fear  of  shocking  the  popular  opinion,  will  not  go 
far  enough  —  They  seem  to  be  convinced  that  a  strong  well  mounted 
government  will  better  suit  the  popular  palate  than  one  of  a  differ- 
ent complexion.  Men  in  office  are  indeed  taking  all  possible  pains 
to  give  an  unfavourable  impression  of  the  Convention;  but  the 
current  seems  to  be  running  strongly  the  other  way. 

A  plain  but  sensible  man,  in  a  conversation  I  had  with  him  yes- 
terday, expressed  himself  nearly  in  this  manner — The  people 
begin  to  be  convinced  that  their  "excellent  form  of  government" 
as  they  have  been  used  to  call  it,  will  not  answer  their  purpose; 
and  that  they  must  substitute  something  not  very  remote  from  that 
which  they  have  lately  quitted. 

These  appearances  though  they  will  not  warrant  a  conclusion 
that  the  people  are  yet  ripe  for  such  a  plan  as  I  advocate,  yet  serve 

^  Pennsyhania  Magasine  of  History  and  Biography,  XI,  302. 
*  DocumaUary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  226^27. 


54       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

to  prove  that  there  is  no  reason  to  despair  of  their  adopting  one 
equally  energetic,  if  the  Convention  should  think  proper  to  propose 
it.  They  serve  to  prove  that  we  ought  not  to  allow  too  much  weight 
to  objections  drawn  from  the  supposed  repugnancy  of  the  people 
to  an  efficient  constitution  —  I  confess  I  am  more  and  more  inclined 
to  believe  that  former  habits  of  thinking  are  regaining  their  influ- 
ence with  more  rapidity  than  is  generally  imagined. 

Not  having  compared  ideas  with  you,  Sir,  I  cannot  judge  how 
far  our  sentiments  agree;  but  as  I  persuade  myself  the  genuineness 
of  my  representations  will  receive  credit  with  you,  my  anxiety  for 
the  event  of  the  deliberations  of  the  Convention  induces  me  to  make 
this  communication  of  what  appears  to  be  the  tendency  of  the  public 
mind.  ...  I  own  to  you  Sir  that  I  am  seriously  and  deeply  dis- 
tressed at  the  aspect  of  the  Councils  which  prevailed  when  I  left 
Philadelphia  —  I  fear  that  we  shall  let  slip  the  golden  opportunity 
of  rescuing  the  American  empire  from  disunion  anarchy  and  misery 
—  No  motley  or  feeble  measure  can  answer  the  end  or  will  finally 
receive  the  public  support.  Decision  is  true  wisdom  and  will  be 
not  less  reputable  to  the  Convention  than  salutary  to  the  com- 
munity. 

I  shall  of  necessity  remain  here  ten  or  twelve  days;  if  I  have 
reason  to  believe  that  my  attendance  at  Philadelphia  will  not  be 
mere  waste  of  time,  I  shall  after  that  period  rejoin  the  Convention. 


LV.    R.  D.  Spaight  to  James  Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia,  3d  July,  1787. 
The  Convention  has  made,  as  yet,  but  little  progress  in  the 
business  they  have  met  on;  and  it  is  a  matter  of  uncertainty  when 
they  will  finish.     Secrecy  being  enjoined  I  can  make  no  communi- 
cations on  that  head.  

LVI.   Nathan  Dane  to  Rufus  King.* 

July  sth,  1787. 
I  am  very  sorry  to  hear  you  say  that  it  is  uncertain  what  will  be 
the  result  of  the  Convention,  because  I  infer  there  must  be  a  great 
diversity  of  sentiments  among  the  members.  The  Convention  must 
do  something  —  its  meeting  has  all  those  effects  which  we  and  those 
who  did  not  fully  discern  the  propriety  of  the  measure  apprehended. 
You  know  the  general  opinion  is,  that  our  Federal  Constitution  must 
be  mended;    and  if  the  Convention  do  not  agree  at  least  in  some 

*  McRee,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  James  Iredell,  II,  162 
'  C.  R.  King,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King,  I,  227-228. 


APPENDIX  A,   LVII  55 

amendments)  a  universal  despair  of  our  keeping  together,  will  take 
place.  It  seems  to  be  agreed  here  that  the  Virginia  plan  was  ad- 
mitted to  come  upon  the  floor  of  investigation  by  way  of  experiment 
and  with  a  few  yieldings  on  this  point  &  that  it  keeps  its  ground  at 
present.  The  contents  of  this  plan  was  known  to  some,  I  believe, 
before  the  Convention  met.  Perhaps  the  public  mind  will  be  pre- 
pared in  a  few  years  to  receive  this  new  system.  However  I  leave 
the  whole  to  the  wisdom  of  the  Convention. 


LVII.   Hugh  Williamson  to  James  Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia,  July  8th,  1787. 
I  think  it  more  than  likely  that  we  shall  not  leave  this  place 
before  the  middle  of  August.  The  diverse  and  almost  opposite 
interests  that  are  to  be  reconciled,  occasion  us  to  progress  very  slowly. 
I  fear  that  Davie  will  be  obliged  to  leave  us  before  our  business  is 
finished,  which  will  be  a  heavy  stroke  to  the  delegation.  We  have 
occasion  for  his  judgment,  for  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  the  great 
exertions  of  political  wisdom  in  our  late  Governor  [Martin],  while 
he  sat  at  the  helm  of  our  State,  have  so  exhausted  his  fund,  that  time 
must  be  required  to  enable  him  again  to  exert  his  abilities  to  the 
advantage  of  the  nation.      

LVIII.    Edmund  Randolph's  Suggestion  for  Conciliating  the 

Small  States.* 

communicated  by  Mr.  Randolph,  July  10.  as  an  accomodating  propo- 
sition to  small  States 

(This  &  the  following  paper  to  be  in  an  appendix) 
I.  Resolvd.  that  in  the  second  branch  each  State  have  one  vote 
in  the  following  cases, 

1.  in  granting  exclusive  rights  to  Ports. 

2.  in  subjecting  vessels  or  seamen  of  the  U.  States  to 

tonnage,  duties  or  other  impositions 

3.  in  regulating  the  navigation  of  Rivers 

4.  in  regulating  the  rights  to  be  enjoyed  by  citizens  of 

one  State  in  the  other  States. 

5.  in  questions  arising  on  the  guarantee  of  territory 

6.  in  declaring  war  or  taking  measures  for  subduing  a 

Rebellion 

7.  in  regulating  Coin 

*  McRee,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  James  Iredell,  II,  163. 

*  From  the  Madison  Papers,  XII,  60.    Printed  in  Documentary  History  of  thi 
Constitiaion,  V,  437-438. 


56       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

8.  in  establishing  &  regulating  the  post  office 

9.  in  the  admission  of  new  States  into  the  Union 

ID.  in  establishing  rules  for  the  government  of  the  Militia 

11.  in  raising  a  regular  army 

12.  in  the  appointment  of  the  Executive 

13.  in  fixing  the  seat  of  Government 

That  in  all  other  cases  the  right  of  suffrage  be  proportioned 
according  to  an  equitable  rule  of  representation. 

2.  that  for  the  determination  of  certain  important  questions  in 
the  2d  branch,  a  greater  number  of  votes  than  a  mere  majority  be 
requisite 

3.  that  the  people  of  each  State  ought  to  retain  the  perfect 
right  of  adopting  from  time  to  time  such  forms  of  republican  Govern- 
ment as  to  them  may  seem  best,  and  of  making  all  laws  not  contrary 
to  the  articles  of  Union;  subject  to  the  supremacy  of  the  General 
Government  in  those  instances  only  in  which  that  supremacy  shall 
be  expressly  declared  by  the  articles  of  the  Union. 

4.  That  altho*  every  negative  given  to  the  law  of  a  particular 
State  shall  prevent  its  operation,  any  State  may  appeal  to  the  na- 
tional Judiciary  against  a  negative;  and  that  such  negative  if  ad- 
judged to  be  contrary  to  the  power  granted  by  the  articles  of  the 
Union,  shall  be  void 

5.  that  any  individual  conceiving  himself  injured  or  oppressed 
by  the  partiality  or  injustice  of  a  law  of  any  particular  State  may 
resort  to  the  National  Judiciary,  who  may  adjudge  such  law  to  be 
void,  if  found  contrary  to  the  principles  of  equity  and  justice. 


LIX.    George  Washington  to  Alexander  Hamilton.^ 

Philadelphia  loth.  July  87. 

I  thank  you  for  your  communication  of  the  3d.  —  When  I  refer 
you  to  the  state  of  the  Councils  which  prevailed  at  the  period  you 
left  this  City  —  and  add,  that  they  are  now,  if  possible,  in  a  worse 
train  than  ever;  you  will  find  but  little  ground  on  which  the  hope 
of  a  good  establishment  can  be  formed.  —  In  a  word,  I  almost  despair 
of  seeing  a  favourable  issue  to  the  proceedings  of  the  Convention, 
and  do  therefore  repent  having  had  any  agency  in  the  business. 

The  Men  who  oppose  a  strong  &  energetic  government  are,  in 
my  opinion,  narrow  minded  politicians,  or  are  under  the  influence 
of  local  views.  —  The  apprehension  expressed  by  them  that  the 
people  will  not  accede  to  the  form  proposed  is  the  osUnsibley  not  the 
real  cause  of  the  opposition  —  but  admitting  that  the  present  senti- 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  235-236. 


APPENDIX  A,    LX  57 

ment  is  as  they  prognosticate,  the  question  ought  nevertheless  to 
be,  is  it,  or  is  it  not,  the  best  form?  —  If  the  former,  recommend  it, 
and  it  will  assuredly  obtain  mauger  opposition 

I  am  sorry  you  went  away  —  I  wish  you  were  back.  —  The 
crisis  is  equally  important  and  alarming,  and  no  opposition  under 
such  circumstances  should  discourage  exertions  till  the  signature 
is  fixed.  —  I  will  not,  at  this  time  trouble  you  with  more  than  my 
best  wishes  and  sincere  regards. 


LX.   William  Blount  to  Governor  Caswell.^ 

New  York,  July  loth,  1787 
On  the  1 8th  of  June  Mr.  Hawkins  &  myself  left  this  for  Phila- 
delphia, on  my  arrival  I  took  my  seat  in  Convention  and  he  agreed 
for  his  passage  to  Petersburg.  After  having  been  there  a  few  days, 
we  received  a  Letter  from  Charles  Thomson  informing  us  that  our 
presence  would  Complete  Seven  States  in  Congress  and  that  a  Con- 
gress was  absolutely  Necessary  for  the  great  purpose  of  the  Union. 
Whereupon  we  returned  here  on  the  4th  Instant  &  formed  a  Congress 
and  we  Considered  ourselves  bound  to  Continue  until  some  other 
State  comes  up,  of  which  we  are  in  hourly  Expectation,  and  then 
I  shall  proceed  to  the  Convention  and  he  will  return  home. 

I  conceived  it  more  for  the  benefit  and  honor  of  the  State,  in 
which  Opinion  my  Colleagues  in  the  Convention  agreed,  to  return 
with  Mr.  Hawkins  and  represent  the  State  in  Congress  than  to 
Continue  in  the  Convention  especially  as  my  Colleagues  in  that 
Body  were  Generally  unanimous  and  Competent  to  the  Purposes 
of  their  Mission.  In  this  instance  I  hope  my  Conduct  will  meet 
the  approbation  of  Your  Excellency  and  my  fellow  Citizens. 


LXI.    Edmund  Randolph  to  Beverley  Randolph,  L't-Gover- 

NOR.* 

Phila.  July  12,  1787 
The  Deputation  here  have  desired  me  to  obtain  a  further  sum 
of  money.     I   have  accordingly  drawn  for  one  hundred  pounds, 
which  the  Executive  will  oblige  us  by  paying.    .  .  . 

By  attendance  on  the  Convention,  together  with  travelling 
Expences  from  6th  of  May  inclusive,  to  19th  July  inclusive, 
being  74  days,  at  6  dollars  per  day,  which  are  equal  to  444 
dollars;  which  are  equal  to £i33-  4« 

*  North  Carolina  State  Records,  XX,  734. 

*  Virginia  Calendar  of  State  Papers,  IV,  315. 


58  RECORDS   OF  THE   FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

LXII.    Manasseh  Cutler:  Journal.  ^ 

[1787],  Friday y  July  13.  This  tavern  (Indian  Queen)  is  situated 
in  Third  Street,  between  Market  Street  and  Chestnut  Street,  and 
is  not  far  from  the  center  of  the  city.  It  is  kept  in  an  elegant  style, 
and  consists  of  a  large  pile  of  buildings,  with  many  spacious  halls, 
and  numerous  small  apartments,  appropriated  for  lodging  rooms.   .  . . 

Being  told,  while  I  was  at  tea,  that  a  number  of  the  Members 
of  the  Continental  Convention,  now  convened  in  this  city  for  the 
purpose  of  forming  a  Federal  Constitution,  lodged  in  this  house, 
and  that  two  of  them  were  from  Massachusetts,  immediately  after 
tea,  I  sent  into  their  Hall  (for  they  live  by  themselves)  to  Mr.  Strong, 
and  requested  to  speak  with  him.  We  had  never  been  personally 
acquainted,  nor  had  I  any  letter  to  him,  but  we  had  both  of  us  an 
hearsay  knowledge  of  each  other,  and  Mr.  Gerry  had  lately  men- 
tioned to  Mr.  Strong  that  he  daily  expected  me,  in  consequence 
of  a  letter  he  had  received  from  Governor  Bowdoin.  Mr.  Strong 
very  politely  introduced  me  to  Mr.  Gorham,  of  Charlestown,  Mass; 
Mr.  Madison  and  Mr.  Mason  and  his  son,  of  Virginia;  Governor 
Martin,  Hon.  Hugh  Williamson,  of  North  Carolina;  the  Hon.  John 
Rutledge  and  Mr.  Pinckney,  of  South  Carolina;  Mr.  Hamilton,  of 
New  York,  who  were  lodgers  in  the  house,  and  to  several  other 
gentlemen  who  were  spending  the  evening  with  them.  I  spent 
the  evening  with  these  gentlemen  very  agreeably. 

.  .  .  Mr.  Strong  was  up  as  early  as  myself,  and  we  took  a  walk 
to  Mr.  Gerry*s  in  Spruce  street,  where  we  breakfasted.  .  .  .  Mr. 
Gerry  has  hired  a  house,  and  lives  in  a  family  state.    .  .  . 

From  Mr.  Peak's  we  went  to  the  State  House.  This  is 
a  noble  building;  the  architecture  is  in  a  richer  and  grander  sty^e 
than  any  public  building  I  have  before  seen.  The  first  story  is  not 
an  open  walk,  as  is  usual  in  buildings  of  this  kind.  In  the  middle, 
however,  is  a  very  broad  cross-aisle,  and  the  floor  above  supported  by 
two  rows  of  pillars.  From  this  aisle  is  a  broad  opening  to  a  large 
hall,  toward  the  west  end,  which  opening  is  supported  by  arches 
and  pillars.  In  this  Hall  the  Courts  are  held,  and,  as  you  pass  the 
aisle,  you  have  a  full  view  of  the  Court.  The  Supreme  Court  was 
now  sitting.  This  bench  consists  of  only  three  judges.  Their 
robes  are  scarlet;  the  lawyers',  black.  The  Chief  Judge,  Mr.  Mc- 
Kean,  was  sitting  with  his  hat  on,  which  is  the  custom,  but  struck 
me  as  being  very  odd,  and  seemed  to  derogate  from  the  dignity  of 
a  judge.  The  hall  east  of  the  aisle  is  employed  for  public  business. 
The  chamber  over  it  is  now  occupied  by  the  Continental  Conven- 

*  Cutler,  Life,  Journals  and  Correspondence  of  Manasseh  Cnder,  I,  253-271. 


APPENDIX  A,    LXIII  59 

tion,^  which  is  now  sitting,  but  sentries  are  planted  without  and  with- 
in —  to  prevent  any  person  from  approaching  near  —  who  appear  to 
be  very  alert  in  the  performance  of  their  duty.    .  .  . 

Dr.  Franklin  lives  in  Market  Street,  between  Second  and  Third 
Streets,  but  his  house  stands  up  a  court-yard  at  some  distance  from 
the  street.  We  found  him  in  his  Garden,  sitting  upon  a  grass  plat 
under  a  very  large  Mulberry,  with  several  other  gentlemen  and  two 
or  three  ladies.  ...  I  delivered  him  my  letters.  After  he  had  read 
them,  he  took  me  again  by  the  hand,  and,  with  the  usual  compli- 
ments, introduced  me  to  the  other  gentlemen  of  the  company,  who 
were  most  of  them  members  of  the  Convention.  Here  we  entered 
into  a  free  conversation,  and  spent  our  time  most  agreeably  until 
it  was  dark.  .  .  .  The  Doctor  showed  me  a  curiosity  he  had  just 
received,  and  with  which  he  was  much  pleased.  It  was  a  snake  with 
two  heads,  preserved  in  a  large  vial.  .  .  .  The  Doctor  mentioned 
the  situation  of  this  snake,  if  it  was  traveling  among  bushes,  and 
one  head  should  choose  to  go  on  one  side  of  the  stem  of  a  bush  and 
the  other  head  should  prefer  the  other  side,  and  that  neither  of  the 
heads  would  consent  to  come  back  or  give  way  to  the  other.  He 
was  then  going  to  mention  a  humorous  matter  that  had  that  day 
taken  place  in  Convention,  in  consequence  of  his  comparing  the 
snake  to  America,  for  he  seemed  to  forget  that  everything  in  Con- 
vention was  to  be  kept  a  profound  secret;  but  the  secrecy  of 
Convention  matters  was  suggested  to  him,  which  stopped  him,  and 
deprived  me  of  the  story  he  was  going  to  tell.  .  .  .  We  took  our 
leave  at  ten,  and  I  retired  to  my  lodgings. 

The  gentlemen  who  lodged  in  the  house  were  just  sitting  down 
to  supper;  a  sumptuous  table  was  spread,  and  the  attendance  in 
the  style  of  noblemen.  After  supper,  Mr.  Strong  came  in  and 
invited  me  into  their  Hall,  where  we  sat  till  twelve. 


•  •  • 


LXni.    George  Wythe  to .* 

16  July,  1787. 
The  reason  which  moved  me,  and  the  only  one  which  could 
have  moved  me,  to  retire  from  the  convention  at  Philadelphia,  not 
only  continues,  but  i  fear  is  more  urgent  than  it  was.     The  execu- 
tive, therefore,  are  desired  to  consider  my  letter  to  govemour  Ran- 

1  "The  Convention  which  met  to  form  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  met 
up  siairSf  and  at  the  same  time  the  street  pavement  along  Qiestnut  Street  was  coverd 
with  earth  to  silence  the  rattling  of  wheels."  Watson,  Jnnab  of  Philadelphia  and 
PtHnsyhania,  (1855),  I,  402. 

*  William  Brotherhead,  Centennial  Book  of  the  Signers,  p.  Z57. 


6o       KECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

dolphy  or  this,  sir,  to  you,  as  a  resignation  of  the  office  which  i  was 
deputed  to  sustain  in  the  convention  — 


LXIV.   W.  R.  Davie  to  James  Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia,  July  17,  1787. 

The  two  great  characters  you  inquire  after  move  with  incon- 
ceivable circumspection.  This  hint  will  satisfy  you.  Their  situ- 
ations, though  dissimilar,  are  both  peculiar  and  delicate. 

I  shall  not  stay  until  the  business  is  finished.  I  am  sorry  it 
will  be  out  of  my  power.  As  soon  as  the  general  principles  are 
established  I  shall  set  out. 

LXV.   James  Madison  to  Thomas  Jefferson.* 

Philada.  July  18.  1787. 
The  Convention  continue  to  sit,  and  have  been  closely  employed 
since  the  Commencemt.  of  the  Session.  I  am  still  under  the  morti- 
fication of  being  restrained  from  disclosing  any  part  of  their  pro- 
ceedings. As  soon  as  I  am  at  liberty  I  will  endeavor  to  make  amends 
for  my  silence,  and  if  I  ever  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  shall 
be  able  to  give  you  pretty  full  gratification.  I  have  taken  lengthy 
notes  of  every  thing  that  has  yet  passed,  and  mean  to  go  on  with 
the  drudgery,  if  no  indisposition  obliges  me  to  discontinue  it.  It 
is  not  possible  to  form  any  judgment  of  the  future  duration  of  the 
Session.  I  am  led  by  sundry  circumstances  to  guess  that  the  resi- 
due of  the  work  will  not  be  very  quickly  despatched.  The  public 
mind  is  very  impatient  for  ye  event,  and  various  reports  are  cir- 
culating which  tend  to  inflame  Curosity.  I  do  not  learn  however 
that  any  discontent  is  expressed  at  the  concealment;  and  have 
little  doubt  that  the  people  will  be  as  ready  to  receive  as  we  shall 
be  able  to  propose,  a  Government  that  will  secure  their  liberties  & 
happiness.  

LXVa.   Pennsylvania  Packet  and  Daily  Advertiser. 

July  19,  1787. 
So  great  is  the  unanimity,  we  hear,  that  prevails  in  the  Con- 
vention, upon  all  great  federal  subjects,  that  it  has  been  proposed 
to  call  the  room  in  which  they  assemble  —  Unanimity  Hall.' 

*  McRec,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  James  Iredell^  II,  165. 
'  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  236. 

*  This  same  item  appeared  in  several  other  newspapers  a  day  or  two  later. 


APPENDIX  A,   LXVI  6l 

LXVI.   Hugh  Williamson  to  James  Iredell.^ 

Philadelphia,  July  22(1,  1787. 
After  much  labor  the  Convention  have  nearly  agreed  on  the 
principles  and  outlines  of  a  system,  which  we  hope  may  fairly  be 
called  an  amendment  of  the  Federal  Government.  This  system  we 
expect  will,  in  three  or  four  days,  be  referred  to  a  small  committee, 
to  be  properly  dressed;  and  if  we  like  it  when  clothed  and  equipped) 
we  shall  submit  it  to  Congress;  and  advise  them  to  recommend  it 
to  the  hospitable  reception  of  the  States.  I  expect  that  some  time 
in  September  we  may  put  the  last  hand  to  this  work.  And  as  Con- 
gress can  have  nothing  to  do  with  it  but  put  the  question  —  pass 
or  not  pass,  —  I  am  in  hopes  that  the  subject  may  be  matured  in 
such  time  as  to  be  laid  before  our  Assembly  at  its  next  session.  .  .  . 
Two  delegates  from  New  Hampshire  arrived  yesterday,  so  that 
we  have  every  State  except  Rhode  Island. 


LXVII.    Benjamin  Franklin  to  John  Paul  Jones.* 

Philada.  July  22,  1787. 
Be  pleased  to  present  my  Respects  to  him,  and  acquaint  him  that 
the  Convention  goes  on  well,  and  that  there  is  hope  of  great  Good 
to  result  from  their  Counsels.  —  I  intended  to  have  wrote  to  him: 
but  three  Days  Illness  from  which  I  have  hardly  recovered  have 
prevented  me.  

LXVIII.   John  Jay  to  George  Washington.* 

New  York  25  July  1787 
Permit  me  to  hint,  whether  it  would  not  be  wise  &  seasonable 
to  provide  a  a  strong  check  to  the  admission  of  Foreigners  into  the 
administration  of  our  national  Government;  and  to  declare  expresly 
that  the  Command  in  chief  of  the  american  army  shall  not  be  given 
to,  nor  devolve  on,  any  but  a  natural  born  Citizen. 


LXIX.   Mr.  Otto  au  comte  de  Montmorin.^ 

No  96. 

A  New  York,  le  25  juiUet,  1787. 
Monseigneur, 
Particular-  Quoique  la  Convention  generale  de  Philadelphie 

*  McRee,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  James  Iredell,  II,  167. 

*  Smyth,  Writings  of  Franklin,  IX,  604-605. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  237. 

*  French    Archives:   Ministere  des    A f  aires  Etrangeres,    Jrchives,   EtatS'Unis. 
Correspondance.  Vol.  32,  pp.  325  ff. 


62       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

itessuria  ait  enjoint  a  ses  membres  le  secret  le  plus  profond 
Convention  sur  toutes  ses  deliberations,  on  a  su  que,  parmi  les 
generate  etab-  differens  plans  de  gouvemement  proposes,  celui  de 
lie  a  Philadel-  la  Virginie  a  ete  considere  comme  le  moins  imparfait 
phie  pour  des  et  qu'un  Committe  est  actuellement  charge  de 
change  men  8  I'ezaminer  en  detail  et  d'en  donner  son  opinion.  Ce 
projettes  dans  plan  se  ressent  de  la  moderation  du  gal.  Washing- 
la  Constitution,  ton  qui  est  a  la  tete  de  la  delegation,  mais  il  est 

pent  etre  encore  trop  rigoureuz  pour  des  peuples 
incapables  de  supporter  le  moindre  joug.  Apres  ce 
que  j'ai  eu  I'honneur  de  vous  mander,  Monseigneur, 
dans  ma  depeche  No.  91,  il  seroit  superflu  d'ajouter 
ici  aucune  reflexion;  j'attendrai  la  publication  des 
debats  de  la  Convention  pour  vous  en  rendre  compte. 
A  mesure  que  les  speculateurs  politiques  avan- 
cent  dans  leurs  projets,  ils  suggerent  de  nouvelles 
idees,  dont  on  ne  s'etoit  point  doute.  Les  petits 
Etats,  craignant  de  voir  etablir  une  representation 
proportionnee  a  I'entendue  et  a  la  population  de 
chaque  Etat,  reforme  qui  leur  seroit  tres  preju- 
diciable,  proposent  aujourd'hui  d'y  consentir,  pourvu 
que  tons  les  Etats  soient  divises  en  portions  egales. 
On  sent  combien  cette  clause  est  peu  proper  a  satia- 
faire  les  Etats  puissans. 

Les  Americains  ne  se  dissimulent  plus,  Mon- 
Obstacles  seigneur,  que  les  difficultes  que  le  gouvemement 
qu'on  craint  federal  a  eprouvees  depuis  la  paiz  ne  soient  prin- 
que  n'eprou-  cipalement  dues  a  I'ambition  de  quelques  individus 
vent  les  plans  qui  craignent  de  perdre  leur  influence  en  donnant 
de  la  Convent-  trop  de  pouvoirs  au  corps  qui  represente  la  confede- 
ion  de  Phila-  ration.  Le  gouvemement  et  les  principauz  mem- 
delphie  de  la  bers  de  chaque  Etat  se  trouveroient  homes  au 
part  de  ceuz  maintien  de  la  police  interieure,  tandis  que  les 
qui  ont  peur  finances  et  les  grands  interets  nationauz  seroient 
de  perdre  leur  ezclusivement  confies  au  Congres.  On  doit  done 
influence.  craindre  qu'en  addressant  auz  Etats  les  nouveauz 

plans  de  la  Convention  de  Philadelphie,  les  memes 
hommes  qui  se  sont  opposes  jusquMci  a  un  impot 
general   et   a   d'autres  reglemens  onereuz  ne    fas- 
sent  rejeter  la   reforme    qu'il   s'agit    d'introduire. 
Ezposition    Pour  remedier  a  cet  inconvenient,  les  membres  de 
que  la  Con-    la  Convention  pretendent  que  les  administrations 
vention   de    particuliers  des  Etats  nWt  pas  le  droit  de  decider 


APPENDIX  A,    LXX  63 

Philadelphie  une  question  relative  a  la  Constitution  fondamentale, 
veut  faire  auz  et  que  c'est  auz  peuples  assembles  a  donner  leurs 
peuples  assem-  voiz.  lis  esperent  qu'en  convoquant  extraordi- 
bles  du  des-  nairement  les  habitans  de  chaque  district,  en 
ordre  qui  mettant  sous  leurs  yeuz  I'incoherence  actuelle  du 
resulte  du  systeme  federal,  le  peu  de  ressources  du  Congres, 
system e  fed-  les  suites  malheureuses  de  I'anarchie,  I'epuisement 
eral  actuel.         du  tresor,  le  mepris  que  les  nations  etrangeres  ont 

pour  un  peuple  sans  chef  et  sans  vigueur,  la  dif- 
ficulte  de  faire  fleurir  le  commerce  parmi  les  regle- 
mens  discordans  de  treize  republiques  separees, 
eniin  la  necessite  d'ecarter  par  une  union  solide  et 
permanente  les  horreurs  d'une  guerre  civile  qui 
naitroit  indubitablement  de  I'etat  actuel  des  choses, 
a  moins  qu'on  ne  trouvat  sans  delai  le  moyen  d*y 
remedier,  les  peuples  ne  manqueroient  pas  de  blamer 
les  vues  ambitieuses  de  leurs  magistrats  et  de  con- 
sentir  unanimement  a  un  systeme  de  gouvemement 
plus  uniforme  et  plus  energique.  Les  taxes  et  les 
impots  qu'il  s'agit  de  faire  verser  dans  les  coffres 
du  Congres  ayant  ete  per^us  jusqu'ici  par  les  Etats 
individuels,  on  croit  que  les  peuples  ne  feront  aucune 
diiiiculte  de  les  accorder  au  gouvemement  general. 
Les  hommes  publics  qui  m'entretiennent  journelle- 
ment  de  ces  projets  connoissent  certainement  mieuz 
que  moi  les  dispositions  des  peuples,  mais  je  doute 
encore  beaucoup  de  leur  succes. 

Les  partisans  de  la  reforme,  Monseigneur,  ont 
Le  Gouver-  soin  en  attendant,  d'attaquer  publiquement  les  plus 
neur  de  New  redoutables  de  leurs  autagonistes.  Leurs  traits  sont 
York  est  I'en-  principalement  diriges  contre  le  Gouvcrncur  de  New 
nemi  le  plus  York,  I'ennemi  le  plus  actif  et  le  plus  dangereuz  de 
dangereuz  de  la  puissance  du  Congres.  Son  interet  personel  le 
la  puissance  porte  a  ne  sacrifier  aucune  de  ses  prerogatives  et  a 
du  Congres.       conserver  a  son  Etat  tous  les  droits  de  la  souverainete. 


LXX.   Governor  Caswell  to  R.  D.  Spaight.^ 

No.  Carolina,  Kinston,  July  26th,  1787. 
From  the  hint  you  threw  out  in  your  first  letter  I  am  induced 
to  think  that  the  plan  of  a  National  Parliament  and  Supreme  Execu- 
tive with  adequate  powers  to  the  Government  of  the  Union  will 

1  North  Carolina  SiaU  Rgcords^  XX,  752. 


64       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

be  more  suitable  to  our  situation  &  circumstances  than  any  other, 
but  I  should  wish  also  an  independent  Judicial  department  to  decide 
any  contest  that  may  happen  between  the  United  States  and  indi- 
vidual States  &  between  one  State  and  another;  this  however  is 
only  a  hint,  you  may  not  see  the  necessity  of  it  as  forcible  as  I  do 
and  I  presume  'tis  now  too  late  to  offer  any  reasons  for  the  estab- 
lishment, as  that  matter  I  flatter  myself  is  before  this  got  over;  all 
I  can  say  respecting  the  Convention  is  to  recommend  a  perseverence 
to  the  end,  to  the  deputies  from  this  State. 


LXXI.    Alexander  Hamilton  to  Auldjo.* 

New  York,  July  26,  1787. 

I  have  delivered  the  paper  you  committed  to  me,  as  it  stood 
altered,  to  Major  Peirce,  from  whose  conduct  I  am  to  conclude  the 
affair  between  you  is  at  an  end.  He  informs  me  that  he  is  shortly 
to  set  out  on  a  jaunt  up  the  North  River. 

As  you  intimate  a  wish  to  have  my  sentiments  in  writing  on  the 
transaction,  I  shall  with  pleasure  declare  that  the  steps  you  have 
taken  in  consequence  of  Mr.  Peirce's  challenge  have  been  altogether 
in  conformity  to  my  opinion  of  what  would  be  prudent,  proper  and 
honorable  on  your  part.  They  seem  to  have  satisfied  Mr.  Peirce's 
scruples  arising  from  what  he  apprehended  in  some  particulars  to 
have  been  your  conduct  to  him,  and  I  presume  we  are  to  hear  nothing 
further  of  the  matter.  

LXXn.    Alexander  Martin  to  Governor  Caswell.' 

Philadelphia,  July  27th,  1787. 
You  may  think  I  have  been  remiss  in  making  you  Communi- 
cations from  the  Federal  Convention,  which  you  had  a  right  to  expect 
from  my  engagements  to  you  in  my  last  Letter  from  Carolina.  But 
when  you  are  informed  that  the  Members  of  that  Body  are  under 
an  Injunction  of  Secrecy  till  their  Deliberations  are  moulded  firm 
for  the  public  Eye,  You  will  readily  I  flatter  myself,  excuse  me.  This 
Caution  was  thought  prudent,  least  unfavourable  Representations 
might  be  made  by  imprudent  printers  of  the  many  crude  matters 
&  things  daily  uttered  &  produced  in  this  Body,  which  are  unavoid- 
able, &  which  in  their  unfinished  state  might  make  an  undue  impres- 
sion on  the  too  credulous  and  unthinking  Mobility.  How  long 
before  the  business  of  Convention  will  be  finished  is  very  uncertain, 
perhaps  not  before  September,  if  then.     Believe  me  Sir,  it  is  no  small 

*  Lodge,  Works  of  Alexander  Hamilton,  (Federal  Edition)  IX,  421. 

*  North  Carolina  StaU  Records,  XX,  753. 


APPENDIX  A,    LXXIII  65 

task  to  bring  to  a  conclusion  the  great  objects  of  a  United  Govern- 
ment viewed  in  different  points  by  thirteen  Independent  Sove* 
reignties;  United  America  must  have  one  general  Interest  to  be  a 
Nation,  at  the  same  time  preserving  the  particular  Interest  of  the 
Individual  States.  However  Sir,  as  soon  as  I  am  at  Liberty  to  make 
Communications  Your  Excellency  shall  have  the  earliest  information. 


LXXIII.    George  Washington:  Diary.^ 

[July]  Friday  —  27th. 
In  Convention,  which  adjourned  this  day,  to  meet  again  on 
Monday  the  6th.  of  August  that  a  Comee.  which  had  been  appointed 
(consisting  of  5  Members)  might  have  time  to  arrange,  and  draw 
into  method  &  form  the  several  matters  which  had  been  agreed  to 
by  the  Convention,  as  a  Constitution  for  the  United  States.  — 


LXXIV.   James  Monroe  to  Thomas  Jefferson.^ 

Fred'ricksburg  —  July  27,  1787. 
I  shall  I  think  be  strongly  impressed  in  favor  of  &  inclined  to 
vote  for  whatever  they  will  recommend.  I  have  heard  from  Becly 
*tho*  not  from  himself  (who  accompanied  the  Governour  up  in  expec- 
iaiion  of  being  appointed  clerk)  they  had  agreed  giving  the  United 
States  a  negative  upon  the  laws  of  the  several  States  *  this  I  shod,  think 
proper  —  it  will  if  the  body  is  well  organized,  be  the  best  way  of 
introducing  uniformity  in  their  proceedings  that  can  be  devis'd,  of 
a  negative  kind  or  by  a  power  to  operate  indirectly  but  a  few  months 
will  give  us  the  result  be  it  what  it  may. 

•  If  it  can  be  done  consistently  with  the  constitutions  of  the  several  States  — 
indeed  it  might  be  well  to  revise  them  all  —  &  incorporate  the  foedl.  constitution  in 
each. 


LXXV.   James  Madison  to  his  Father.' 

Philada.  July  28.  1787. 

I  am  sorry  that  I  cannot  gratify  your  wish  to  be  informed  of 

the  proceedings  of  the  Convention.    An  order  of  secresy  leaves  mc 

at  liberty  merely  to  tell  you  that  nothing  definitive  is  yet  done,  that 

the  Session  will  probably  continue  for  some  time  yet,  that  an  Adjoum- 

*  Dacumentary  History  of  the  ConstttuHon,  IV,  239. 

*  Docununiary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  237-238.    The  portions  of  the  origi- 
nal MS.  in  cipher  are  here  represented  by  italics, 

'  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  239. 


66       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

ment  took  place  on  thursday  last  until  Monday  week,  and  that  a 
Committee  is  to  be  at  work  in  the  mean  time. 


LXXVI.   Nicholas  Gilman  to  Joseph  Gilman.^ 

Philadelphia,  July  31st  1787  — 

I  have  the  pleasure  to  inform  you  of  my  having  arrived  at  this 
place  on  the  2i8t  instant,  Mr  Langdon  arrived  a  few  hours  before 
and,  notwithstanding  we  are  so  late  in  the  day,  it  is  a  circumstance, 
in  this  critical  state  of  affairs,  that  seems  highly  pleasing  to  the  Con- 
vention in  general.  —  Much  has  been  done  (though  nothing  con- 
clusively) and  much  remains  to  do  —  A  great  diversity  of  sentiment 
must  be  expected  on  this  great  Occassion:  feeble  minds  are  for  feeble 
measures  &  some  for  patching  the  old  garment  with  here  &  there 
a  shred  of  new  Stuff;  while  vigorous  minds  and  warm  Constitutions 
advocate  a  high  toned  Monarchy  —  This  is  perhaps  a  necessary 
contrast  as  "all  natures  difference  keeps  all  natures  peace '*  it  is 
probable  the  conclusion  will  be  on  a  medium  between  the  two  ex- 
tremes. — 

As  secrecy  is  not  otherwise  enjoined  than  as  prudence  may  dic- 
tate to  each  individual  —  in  a  letter  to  my  brother  John,*  of  the 
28th  instant,  I  gave  him  (for  the  satisfaction  of  two  or  three  who 
will  not  make  it  public)  a  hint  respecting  the  general  principles  of 
the  plan  of  national  Government,  that  will  probably  be  handed  out 
—  which  will  not  be  submitted  to  the  Legislatures  but  after  the 
approbation  of  Congress  to  an  assembly  or  assemblies  of  Represen- 
tatives recommended  by  the  several  Legislatures,  to  be  expressly 
chosen  by  the  people  to  consider  &  decide  thereon.  — 

Great  wisdom  &  prudence  as  well  as  liberallity  of  Sentiment  & 
a  readiness  to  surrender  natural  rights  &  privileges  for  the  good  of 
the  nation  appears  in  the  southern  delegates  in  general  and  I  most 
devoutly  wish  that  the  same  spirit  may  pervade  the  whole  Country 
that  the  people  by  absurdly  endeavoring  to  retain  all  their  natural 
rights  may  not  be  involved  in  Calamitous  factions  which  would 
end  but  with  the  loss  of  all 

...  I  think  the  business  of  the  Convention  will  not  be  com- 
pleted untill  the  first  of  September  — 

» New  Hampshire  State  Papers,  XXI,  835-836. 

*  "The  letter  to  John  Taylor  Gilman  seems  not  to  be  extant.*'  Jameson,  Studies 
of  Federal  Conoentian,  p.  91 . 


APPENDIX  A,    LXXVItf  67 

LXXVIa.   Pierce  Butler  to  Weedon  Butler.* 

New  York,  August  ist,  1787. 
My  last  letter  from  Carolina  would  inform  you  of  my  intended 
visit  to  Philadelphia.  As  I  declined  the  honorary  fellow  Citizens 
offered  me  of  the  Chief  Magistracy,  I  could  not  refuse  the  last  Ap- 
pointment of  Acting  as  One  of  their  Commissioners  to  the  Conven- 
tion to  be  held  at  Philadelphia.  No  doubt  you  have  heard  of  the 
purport  of  the  meeting,  —  to  form  a  stronger  Constitution  on  strict 
Foederal  Principles,  for  the  Govemmt.  of  the  whole  —  I  hope  we 
may  succeed.  Our  Country  expect  much  of  us.  We  have  satt  every 
day  since  the  25th  of  May  till  last  Saturday,  when  we  adjourned 
for  one  week.  Having  placed  my  Family  here,  Philadelphia  not 
being  so  healthy,  I  embraced  the  opportunity  of  visiting  them.  I 
go  back  to  Philada  on  Sunday  and  shall  return  home  the  first  week 
in  November.  

LXXVII.  James  McClurg  to  James  Madison.* 

Richmond  Augt.  5.  87. 
I  am  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  communication  of  the  pro- 
ceedings of  ye  Convention,  since  I  left  them;  for  I  feel  that  anxiety 
about  ye  result,  which  it's  Importance  must  give  to  every  honest  citi- 
zen. If  I  thought  that  my  return  could  contribute  in  the  smallest 
degree  to  it's  Improvement,  nothing  should  keep  me  away.  But  as  I 
know  that  the  talents,  knowledge,  and  well-establish'd  character,  of 
our  present  delegates,  have  justly  inspired  this  country  with  ye  most 
entire  confidence  in  their  determinations;  &  that  my  vote  could  only 
operate  to  produce  a  division,  &  so  destroy  ye  vote  of  ye  State,  I  think 
that  my  attendance  now  would  certainly  be  useless,  perhaps  injurious. 


LXXVIII.   George  Washington:  Diary.' 

[August]  Monday  —  6th. 
Met,  according  to  adjournment  in  convention,  &  received  the 
Rept.  of  the  Committee —  

LXXIX.    W.  R.  Davie  to  James  Iredell.* 

Philadelphia,  August  6th,  1787 
I  shall  leave  this  place  on  Monday  next;   and,  probably,  be  in 

^  British  Museum,  Additional  MSS.,  16603.    ^py  furnished  through  the  courtesy 
of  the  Department  of  Historical  Research  of  the  Carnegie  Institution  of  Washington. 

•  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitutiofiy  IV,  244-245. 

•  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  245. 
^McRee,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  James  Iredell,  II,  168. 


68       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Halifax  by  the  time  you  receive  this,  as  the  great  outlines  are  now 
marked,  and  have  been  detailed  by  a  committee:  the  residue  of  the 
work  will  rather  be  tedious  than  difficult. 


LXXX.   North  Carolina  Delegates  to  Governor  Caswell.^ 

Philadelphia,  July  [August]  7th,  1787. 
The  Convention  having  on  the  26th  of  last  Month  finished  the 
outline  of  the  Amendments  proposed  to  the  Federal  System,  the 
business  was  of  course  Committed  for  detail  and  we  have  the  pleasure 
to  inform  your  Excellency  that  the  report  was  received  on  yester- 
day. From  the  progress,  which  has  already  taken  up  near  three 
months;  we  are  induced  to  believe  the  result  of  our  deliberations 
will  shortly  be  presented  to  the  United  States  in  Congress  and  as 
they  are  only  to  consider  whether  the  System  shall  or  shall  not  be 
recommended  to  the  States,  the  Business  cannot  Remain  long  before 
them.  It  is  certainly  to  be  desired  that  they  may  be  ready  to  pass 
upon  this  subject  before  the  end  of  the  Federal  year,  otherwise  the 
Report  of  the  Convention,  and  Consequently  of  Congress,  cannot 
meet  our  Assembly  in  Time  next  regular  adjournment,  and  we  have 
experienced  the  difficulty  of  calling  them  together  at  another  time. 
We  think  it  will  therefore  be  of  importance  that  the  States  in  Gen- 
eral, and  that  our  State  in  particular  be  represented  in  Congress 
during  the  Months  of  September  &  October  and  submit  to  the  Con- 
sideration of  your  Excellency  whether  it  would  not  be  proper  to 
expedite  the  attendance  of  those  Gentlemen  whose  duty  it  may  be 
to  serve  in  Congress  at  this  time. 


LXXXI.    R.  D.  Spaight  to  James  Iredell.' 

Philadelphia,  August  12th,  1787. 

The  Convention  having  agreed  upon  the  outlines  of  a  plan  of 
government  for  the  United  States,  referred  it  to  a  small  committee 
to  detail:  that  committee  have  reported,  and  the  plan  is  now  under 
consideration.  I  am  in  hopes  we  shall  be  able  to  get  through  it  by 
the  1st  or  15th  of  September. 

It  is  not  probable  that  the  United  States  will  in  future  be  so 
ideal  as  to  risk  their  happiness  upon  the  unanimity  of  the  whole; 
and  thereby  put  it  in  the  power  of  one  or  two  States  to  defeat  the 
most  salutary  propositions,  and  prevent  the  Union  from  rising  out 
of  that  contemptible  situation  to  which  it  is  at  present  reduced. 

1  North  Carolina  StaU  Records^  XX,  733. 

*McRee:  Life  and  Correspondence  of  James  Iredell^  11,  168. 


APPENDIX  A,    LXXXII  69 

LXXXII.    James  Madison  to  his  Father.^ 

Philada.  Augst.  12.  1787. 
The  Convention  reassembled  at  the  time  my  last  mentioned 
that  they  had  adjourned  to.  It  is  not  possible  yet  to  determine 
the  period  to  which  the  Session  will  be  spun  out.  It  must  be  some 
weeks  from  this  date  at  least,  and  possibly  may  be  computed  by 
months.  Eleven  States  are  on  the  ground,  and  have  generally  been 
so  since  the  second  or  third  week  of  the  Session.  Rhode  Island  is 
one  of  the  absent  States.  She  has  never  yet  appointed  deputies. 
N.  H.  till  of  late  was  the  other.  That  State  is  now  represented. 
But  just  before  the  arrival  of  her  deputies,  those  of  N.  York  left  us. 


LXXXIII.   Elbridge  Gerry  to  General  Warren.' 

Philadelphia,  Aug.  13,  1787. 
It  is  out  of  my  power  in  return  for  the  information  you  have 
given  me  to  inform  you  of  our  proceedings  in  convention,  but  I 
think  they  will  be  complete  in  a  month  or  six  weeks,  perhaps  sooner. 
Whenever  they  shall  be  matured  I  sincerely  hope  they  will  be  such 
as  you  and  I  can  approve,  and  then  they  will  not  be  engrafted  with 
principles  of  mutability,  corruption  or  despotism,  principles  which 
some,  you  and  I  know,  would  not  dislike  to  find  in  our  national 
constitution.  

LXXXIIItf.   Pennsylvania  Herald  and  General  Advertiser. 

Wednesday,  August  15,  1787. 

The  debates  of  the  fcederal  convention  continued  until  five 

o'clock  on  Monday  evening;  when,  it  is  said,  a  decision  took  place 

upon  the  most  important  question  that  has  been  agitated  since  the 

meeting  of  this  assembly.        

LXXXIV.   George  Washington  to  La  Fayette.' 

Philadelphia  August  15th.  1787 
Altho*  the  business  of  the  Fcederal  Convention  is  not  yet  closM, 
nor  I,  thereby,  enabled  to  give  you  an  account  of  its  proceedings; 
yet,  the  opportunity  afforded  by  Commodore  Paul  Jones'  Return 
to  France  is  too  favourable  for  me  to  omit  informing  you,  that  the 
present  expectation  of  the  members  is,  that  it  will  end  about  the 
first  of  next  month;  when,  or  as  soon  after  as  it  shall  be  in  my  power, 
I  will  communicate  the  result  of  our  long  deliberation  to  you. 

1  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  247*248. 

•  Austin,  Life  of  Elbridge  Gerry,  II,  36. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  253. 


70      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

LXXXV.   George  Washington  to  Henry  Knox.* 

Philadelphia.  August  19  1787 
By  slow^  I  wish  I  could  add,  and  sure  movements,  the  business 
of  the  Convention  progresses  but  to  say  when  it  will  end,  or  what 
will  be  the  result,  is  more  than  I  dare  venture  to  do  and  therefore 
shall  hazard  no  opinion  thereon.  If  some  thing  good  does  not 
proceed  from  the  Cession  the  defects  cannot  with  propriety  be  charged 
to  the  hurry  with  which  the  business  has  been  conducted,  notwith- 
standing which  many  things  may  be  forgot  —  some  of  them  not  well 
digested  —  and  others  from  the  contrariety  of  sentiments  with 
which  such  a  body  is  pervaded  become  a  mere  nihility  yet  I  wish 
a  disposition  may  be  found  in  Congress,  the  several  State  Legisla- 
tures—  and  the  community  at  large  to  adopt  the  Government 
which  may  be  agreed  on  in  Convention  because  I  am  fully  persuaded 
it  is  the  best  that  can  be  obtained  at  the  present  moment  under  such 
diversity  of  ideas  as  prevail. 


LXXXVI.    Alexander  Hamilton  to  Rufus  King.' 

New  York,  Aug.  20.,  1787. 

Since  my  arrival  here,  I  have  written  to  my  colleagues,  inform- 
ing them,  that  if  either  of  them  would  come  down,  I  would  accom- 
pany him  to  Philadelphia.  So  much  for  the  sake  of  propriety  and 
public  opinion. 

In  the  mean  time  if  any  material  alteration  should  happen  to 
be  made  in  the  plan  now  before  the  Convention,  I  will  be  obliged 
to  you  for  a  communication  of  it.  I  will  also  be  obliged  to  you  to 
let  me  know  when  your  conclusion  is  at  hand;  for  I  would  choose 
to  be  present  at  that  time.     

LXXXVn.    Hugh  Williamson  to  Governor  Caswell.' 

Philadelphia,  20th  August,  1787 
On  Monday  last  Col.  Davie  set  out  from  this  place.  I  regret 
his  departure  very  much  as  his  conduct  here  has  induced  me  to 
think  highly  of  his  abilities  and  political  principles.  On  Monday 
next  Col.  Martin  also  proposes  to  leave  us  when  we  shall  be  reduced 
to  a  mere  representation;  of  the  five  Gentlemen  who  were  appointed 
by  the  Assembly  only  one  will  remain.  I  wish  you  in  the  meanwhile 
to  believe  that  Col.  Blount  &  myself  are  determined  to  persevere 
while  there  are  Six  other  States  on  the  Floor  or  until  the  business 

*  Docununtary  History  of  the  Consiiiuiionf  IV,  254-255. 

'  C.  R.  King,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King,  I,  258. 

*  North  Carolina  State  Records,  XX,  765-766. 


APPENDIX  A,    LXXXVIII  7 1 

18  finished,  tho'  it  should  last  for  months,  we  have  two  reasons  for 
this  resolution,  either  of  which  will  be  conclusive.  We  owe  this 
duty  to  the  State  whose  interest  seems  to  be  deeply  concerned,  and 
we  owe  it  to  the  feelings  of  your  Excellency,  for  we  would  not  have 
it  alleged  that  Gentlemen  whom  you  had  been  pleased  to  honor  with 
the  Public  trust  had  failed  in  a  single  Iota  of  their  duty  to  the  Public. 
We  shall  on  some  future  occasion  be  at  liberty  to  explain  to  your 
Excellency  how  difficult  a  part  has  fallen  to  the  share  of  our  State 
in  the  course  of  this  business  and  I  flatter  myself  greatly  if  we  have 
not  sustained  it  with  a  Principle  &  firmness  that  will  entitle  us  to 
what  we  will  never  ask  for,  the  thanks  of  the  public.  It  will  be 
sufficient  for  us  if  we  have  the  satisfaction  of  believing  that  we  have 
contributed  to  the  happiness  of  Millions. 


LXXXVIII.   William  Blount  to  Governor  Caswell.* 

Philadelphia,  Monday,  August  20th,  1787. 

In  a  letter  from  New  York  I  informed  your  Excellency  of  my 
reasons  for  leaving  the  Convention  and  returning  to  that  place  with 
Mr.  Hawkins  to  represent  this  State  in  Congress.  On  Monday  the 
6th  Inst,  the  Committee  of  detail  made  their  Report  to  the  Conven- 
tion and  on  the  Morning  of  Tuesday  the  7th  Hawkins  and  myself 
returned  here  and  I  again  took  my  seat  in  Convention;  so  that  tho' 
I  was  not  present  all  the  time  the  Convention  were  debating  and 
fixing  the  principles  of  the  Government  I  have  been  and  mean  to 
continue  to  be  present  while  the  detail  is  under  Consideration,  that 
is  until  the  Business  of  the  Convention  is  Completed.  From  10  to 
4  CyQock  are  the  invariable  hours  of  Session  and  as  much  Una- 
nimity as  can  be  expected  prevails,  yet  I  believe  the  business  will 
not  be  completed  in  less  than  a  month  from  this  Time;  Mr.  Davie 
left  us  on  this  day  week,  his  business  at  the  approaching  Superior 
Court  called  him  so  pressingly  that  he  could  not  stay  any  longer. 
If  he  could  have  complyed  with  his  own  inclination,  or  those  of  the 
Delegation  of  the  State  he  would  have  remained  during  the  Session. 

Mr.  Martin  informs  us  that  on  Monday  next  we  must  also 
submit  to  his  leaving  us.     I  wish  it  could  be  other  ways  .  .  . 

Your  Excellency  is  not  now  to  be  informed  that  I  am  not  at 
liberty  to  explain  the  particulars  of  the  mode  of  Government  that 
the  Convention  have  in  Contemplation,  but  I  will  venture  to  assure 
you  that  it  will  be  such  a  form  of  Government  as  I  believe  will  be 
readily  adopted  by  the  several  States  because  I  believe  it  will  be 
such  as  will  be  their  respective  interest  to  adopt. 

>  North  Carolina  StaU  Ricords,  XX,  764-5. 


72       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

LXXXIX.    Alexander  Martin  to  Governor  Caswell.^ 

Philadelphia,  August  20th,  1787. 

I  have  been  honored  with  your  Excellency's  Letter  of  the  26th 
Ulto.  in  which  you  are  pleased  to  suggest  you  have  been  disappointed 
in  receiving  particular  information  respecting  the  Convention;  In 
my  last  I  wrote  your  Excellency  the  Reasons  which  I  flatter  myself 
you  have  received  and  approved  of,  why  Communications  could  not 
be  made  until  the  Business  before  this  Body  be  Completed  and  pre- 
pared for  the  public  Eye,  much  time  has  been  employed  in  drawing 
the  outlines  of  the  Subjects  of  their  Deliberations  in  which  as  much 
unanimity  has  prevailed  as  could  be  well  expected  from  so  many 
Sentiments  Arising  in  twelve  Independent  Sovereign  Bodies;  Rhode 
Island  not  having  deigned  to  keep  company  with  her  Sister  States 
on  this  Occasion.  The  Convention  after  having  agreed  on  some 
great  principles  in  the  Government  of  the  Union  Adjourned  for  a 
few  days,  having  appointed  a  Committee  composed  of  the  following 
Gentlemen,  to  wit:  Mr.  Rutledge  of  South  Carolina,  Mr.  Ran- 
dolph of  Virginia,  Mr.  Elsworth  of  Connecticut,  Mr.  Wilson  of 
Pennsylvania,  and  Mr.  Gorham  of  Massachusetts,  to  detail  or 
render  more  explicit  the  chief  subjects  of  their  Discussion;  on  the 
Report  of  these  Gentlemen  the  Convention  again  met,  and  are  now 
employed  taking  up  the  same  Paragraph  by  paragraph,  and  so  slow 
is  the  progress  that  I  am  doubtful  the  Business  will  not  be  fully 
reduced  to  System  and  finished  before  the  middle  of  September 
next,  if  then. 

It  is  the  wish  of  the  Members  of  Convention  that  the  States 
be  fully  represented  in  Congress  at  the  time  they  will  be  presented 
with  the  Conventional  Transactions,  of  which  should  Congress  give 
their  approbation  the  same  may  be  transmitted  to  the  Legislatures 
of  the  several  States  at  their  next  meeting,  that  the  sense  of  the  Union 
be  obtained  as  soon  as  possible  thereupon.  Colo.  Ashe  is  alone  at  Con- 
gress, Colo.  Burton  was  expected  before  this,  but  is  not  yet  arrived; 
Col.  Blount  has  been  with  us  from  Congress  for  some  days  past,  as 
Col.  Davie  was  under  the  Necessity  to  return  Home;  Mr.  Hawkins 
is  also  returned.  I  am  also  obliged  to  be  at  Salisbury  Superior 
Court  in  Sept.  next,  and  propose  to  sett  off  the  first  of  that  month 
on  my  return.  The  State  will  still  be  represented  fully  in  Convention 
by  my  Honourable  friends  Messrs.  Spaight,  Blount  &  Williamson. 
My  absence  may  I  think  be  the  moce  easily  dispenced  with  when  I 
have  the  pleasure  to  inform  your  Excellency  the  Deputation  from 
the  State  of  North  Carolina  have  generally  been  unanimous  on  all 

1  North  Carolina  State  Records^  XX,  763-4. 


APPENDIX  A,   XC  73 

great  questions,  and  I  flatter  myself  will  continue  so  until  the  Objects 
of  their  mission  be  finished.  Tho'  I  have  not  told  your  Excellency 
aflirmatively  what  the  Convention  have  done,  I  can  tell  you  nega- 
tively what  they  have  not  done.  They  are  not  about  to  create  a 
King  as  hath  been  represented  unfavourably  in  some  of  the  eastern 
States,  so  that  you  are  not  to  expect  the  Bishop  Oznaburg  or  any 
prince  or  great  man  of  the  World  to  rule  in  this  Country.*  The 
Public  Curiosity  will  no  doubt  be  gratified  at  the  next  Assembly, 
perhaps  before.  

XC.    David  Brearley  to  William  Paterson.* 

Philadelphia  21  Aug.  1787. 
I  was  in  hopes  after  the  Committee  had  reported,  that  we  should 
have  been  able  to  have  published  by  the  first  of  September,  at  pres- 
ent I  hav^  no  prospect  of  our  getting  through  before  the  latter  end 
of  that  month.  Every  article  is  again  argued  over,  with  as  much 
earnestness  and  obstinacy  as  before  it  was  committed.  We  have 
lately  made  a  rule  to  meet  at  ten  and  sit  'til  four,  which  is  punctually 
complied  with.  Cannot  you  come  down  and  assist  us,  —  we  have 
many  reasons  for  desiring  this;  our  duty,  in  the  manner  we  now 
sit,  is  quite  too  hard  for  three,  but  a  much  stronger  reason  is,  that 
we  actually  stand  in  need  of  your  abilities. 


XCI.    James  McClurg  to  James  Madison.' 

Richmond  Augt.  22.  87. 

I  have  so  much  pleasure  from  your  communications,  that  I 
shall  be  careful  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  them,  with  a  view  to 
secure  their  continuance. 

I  have  still  some  hope  that  I  shall  hear  from  you  of  ye  reinstate- 
ment of  ye  Negative  —  as  it  is  certainly  ye  only  mean  by  which  the 
several  Legislatures  can  be  restrain'd  from  disturbing  ye  order  &  har- 
mony of  ye  whole,  &  ye  Governmt.  rendered  properly  national^  &  one. 
I  should  suppose  yt  some  of  its  former  opponents  must  by  this  time 
have  seen  ye  necessity  of  advocating  it,  if  they  wish  to  support  their 
own  principles.  

XCII.    Extract  From  The  Pennsylvania  Journal.* 

[August  22,  1787.] 
We  are  informed,  that  many  letters  have  been  written  to  the 

»  See  XCII  below. 

'  Jameson,  Studies  in  thi  History  of  the  Federal  Conoentum^  in  the  Annual  Report 
0/  the  American  Historical  Association  for  1902,  p.  99. 
*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  264. 


74       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

members  of  the  foederal  convention  from  different  quarters,  respect- 
ing the  reports  idly  circulating,  that  it  is  intended  to  establish  a 
monarchical  government,  to  send  for  the  bishop  of  Osnaburgh,  &c.y 
&c.  —  to  which  it  has  been  uniformly  answered,  tho'  we  cannot, 
affirmatively,  tell  you  what  we  are  doing,  we  can,  negatively,  tell 
you  what  we  are  not  doing  —  we  never  once  thought  of  a  king.^ 


XCIII.    Edmund  Randolph  to  the  Lieutenant  Governor  of 

Virginia.' 

Philadelphia  August  22  1787. 

I  requested  Dr.  Mclurg  to  inform  your  honorable  board,  that 
at  the  completion  of  our  business  we  should  be  called  upon  for  sev- 
eral expences,  incurred  during  our  session;  the  principal  of  which 
would  be  an  allowance  to  the  secretary,  and  two  door-keepers,  and 
the  charge  of  printing  and  stationary.  Perhaps  this  circumstance 
may  have  escaped  that  gentleman's  memory;  and  as  it  is  a  matter 
of  some  consequence  to  us,  I  beg  leave  to  mention  it  now,  and  to 
ask  the  sense  of  the  executive,  whether  it  can  be  placed  among  the 
contingent  charges  of  government,  or  must  be  paid  by  ourselves. 
When  I  informed  you,  that  the  balance  in  my  hands  would  probably 
be  absorbed  before  my  return,  or  something  to  this  effect,  I  had  in 
contemplation  not  my  own  wages  only,  but  this  debt  also.  You 
will  therefore  be  pleased,  sir,  to  give  me  the  earliest  answer,  which 
may  be  in  your  power.  Should  it  not  be  expedient  to  allow  these 
expences,  I  shall  have  a  small  balance  still  in  my  hands,  which  I 
will  pay  into  the  treasury  immediately  on  my  return  —  ... 

N.  B.  I  failed  in  my  attempt  to  take  up  my  draught  for  the 
100  L,  as  it  had  been  sent  to  Virginia,  contrary  to  the  information 
I  first  received.  So  that  what  I  have  said  above  goes  upon  the  sup- 
position of  that  sum  having  been  debited  to  me. 


XCIV.    W.  R.  Davie  to  Governor  Caswell.' 

Halifax,  August  23rd.  1787. 

I  left  Philadelphia  on  the  13th  Ulto.,  before  which  date  we  had 

informed  you  of  the  progress  of  the  business;   it  was  not  supposed 

the  Convention  would  rise  before  the  first  of  September,  and  all 

the  other  Gentlemen  were  attending  and  agreed  to  stay,  and  as  the 

^Compare  phraseology  with  that  at  the  close  of  LXXXIX  above,  and  see 
CVII  below. 

'  Virginia  State  Library,  Executive  Papers.  Copy  furnished  by  the  Department 
of  Historical  Research  of  the  Carnegie  Institution. 

*  North  Carolina  StaU  Records,  XX,  766. 


APPENDIX  A,  xciva  75 

general  principles  were  already  fixed  and  Considering  the  State  and 
Nature  of  my  business,  I  felt  myself  fully  at  liberty  to  return,  espe- 
cially as  No.  Carolina  was  so  fully  and  respectably  represented. 


XCIVtf.    Pennsylvania  Packet  and  Daily  Advertiser. 

Thursday,  August  23,  1787. 
The  punctuality  with  which  the  members  of  the  Convention 
assemble  every  day  at  a  certain  hour,  and  the  long  time  they  spend 
in  the  deliberations  of  each  day  (sometimes  7  hours)  are  proofs, 
among  other  things  how  much  they  are  entitled  to  the  universal 
confidence  of  the  people  of  America.  Such  a  body  of  enlightened 
and  honest  men  perhaps  never  before  met  for  political  purposes  in 
any  country  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 


XCV.    Ezra  Stiles:  Dlary.^ 

[August]  27.  Judge  Elsworth  a  Member  of  the  foederal  Conven- 
tion just  returned  fr.  Philada  visited  me,  &  tells  me  the  Convent, 
will  not  rise  under  three  Weeks. 


XCVI.   Alexander  Hamilton  to  Rufus  King.* 

New  York,  Aug.  28,  1787. 

I  wrote  to  you  some  days  since  to  request  you  to  inform  me  when 
there  was  a  prospect  of  your  finishing,  as  I  intended  to  be  with  you, 
for  certain  reasons,  before  the  conclusion. 

It  is  whispered  here  that  some  late  changes  in  your  scheme 
have  taken  place  which  give  it  a  higher  tone.     Is  this  the  case? 

I  leave  town  today  to  attend  a  circuit  in  a  neighboring  County, 
from  which  I  shall  return  the  last  of  the  week;  and  shall  be  glad  to 
find  a  line  from  you  explanatory  of  the  period  of  the  probable  termi- 
nation of  your  business.  

XCVII.   Nathaniel  Gorham  to  Caleb  Strong.' 

Philadelphia  Augt  29 
I  reed  your  favour  from  N  York  and  was  pleased  to  find  that 
you  had  got  on  so  well.    .  .  .  We  have  now  under  consideration  the 
18th  Article  which  is  that  the  United  States  shall  guarantee,  &c.  &c.* 

>  Literary  Diary  of  Eva  Stilfs,  III,  279. 

■  C.  R.  KLing,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King,  I,  258. 

*  Jameson,  Studies  in  the  History  of  the  Federal  Convention  in  the  Annual  Report 
of  the  American  Historical  Association  for  1902,  p.  100. 

*  Taken  up  and  pasaed  on  August  30.  On  August  29,  Article  XVII  was  under 
consideration  and  was  continued  on  August  3a 


76       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

I  am  in  hopes  we  shall  be  done  in  about  20  days.    There  are 
several  things  referred  which  will  take  some  time. 


XCYIII.    Thomas  Jefferson  to  John  Adams.^ 

Paris  Aug.  30.  1787. 
I  have  news  from  America  as  late  as  July  19.  nothing  had  then 
transpired  from  the  Federal  convention.  I  am  sorry  they  began 
their  deliberations  by  so  abominable  a  precedent  as  that  of  tying 
up  the  tongues  of  their  members,  nothing  can  justify  this  example 
but  the  innocence  of  their  intentions,  &  ignorance  of  the  value  of 
public  discussions.  I  have  no  doubt  that  all  their  other  measures 
will  be  good  &  wise,  it  is  really  an  assembly  of  demigods.  Genl. 
Washington  was  of  opinion  they  should  not  separate  till  October. 


XCDC    George  Washington  to  John  Jay.* 

Philadelphia  Sept.  2d  1787 
I  regret  not  having  had  it  In  my  power  to  visit  New  York  during 
the  adjournment  of  the  Convention,  last  Month.  —  not  foreseeing 
with  any  precission  the  period  at  which  it  was  likely  to  take  place 
or  the  length  of  it,  I  had  put  my  carriage  in  the  hands  of  a  work- 
man to  be  repaired  and  had  not  the  means  of  mooving  during  the 
recess  but  with,  or  the  curtisy  of,  others. 

I  thank  you  for  the  hints  contained  in  your  letter 


C.    Edmund  Randolph  to  Beverley  Randolph.' 

Phila.,  Sept.  2,  1787. 
I  expect  to  leave  this  place  on  Saturday,  Seven  night. 


CI.   James  Madison  to  his  Father.^ 

Philada.  Sepr.  4.  1787. 
The  Convention  has  not  yet  broken  up  but  its  Session  will  prob- 
ably continue  but  a  short  time  longer.     Its  proceedings  are  still 
under  the  injunction  of  secresy.    ...  As  soon  as  the  tie  of  secresy 
shall  be  dissolved  I  will  forward  the  proceedings  of  the  Convention. 


CII.   John  Collins  to  Arthur  St.  Clair,  President  of  Congress.^ 

Newport  Septem  ye  4th:  1787 
I  have  not  as  yet  lost  all  hopes  of  getting  a  Representation  to 

^  Documentaty  History  of  the  ConstitiUiotif  IV,  266. 

*  DocumefUary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV»  269. 

*  Firginia  Calendar  of  State  Papers,  IV,  338. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  ConstitutioHj  IV,  aTa 


APPENDIX  A,  cm  .  77 

the  General  Convention  timely,  that  their  Report  may  be  made  in 
the  name  of  the  thirteen  United  States,  the  idea  of  a  Report  from 
twelve  States  onely  appears  eztreem  disagreeable,  I  shall  spare  no 
pains  to  prevent  it 

CIII.    James  Madison  to  Thomas  Jefferson.^ 

Philada.  Sepr.  6.  1787. 

As  the  Convention  will  shortly  rise  I  should  feel  little  scruple 
in  disclosing  what  will  be  public  here,  before  it  could  reach  you,  were 
it  practicable  for  me  to  guard  by  Cypher  against  an  intermediate 
discovery.  But  I  am  deprived  of  this  resource  by  the  shortness  of 
the  interval  between  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  June  20,  and  the 
date  of  this.  This  is  the  first  day  which  has  been  free  from  Com- 
mittee service,  both  before  &  after  the  hours  of  the  House,  and  the 
last  that  is  allowed  me  by  the  time  advertised  for  the  sailing  of  the 
packet. 

The  Convention  consists  now  as  it  has  generally  done  of  Eleven 
States.  There  has  been  no  intermission  of  its  Sessions  since  a  house 
was  formed;  except  an  interval  of  about  ten  days  allowed  a  Com- 
mittee appointed  to  detail  the  general  propositions  agreed  on  in 
the  House.  The  term  of  its  dissolution  cannot  be  more  than  one 
or  two  weeks  distant.  A  Govemmt.  will  probably  be  submitted 
to  the  people  of  the  States^  consisting  of  a  president^  cloathed  with 
Executive  power;  a  Senate  chosen  by  the  Legislatures^  and  another 
House  chosen  by  the  people  of  the  States,  jointly  possessing  the  legis^ 
lative  power;  and  a  regular  judiciary  establishment.  The  mode  of 
constituting  the  Executive  is  among  the  few  points  not  yet  finally 
settled.  The  Senate  will  consist  of  two  members  from  each  State^ 
and  appointed  sexennially.  The  other,  of  members  appointed  bien^ 
nially  by  the  people  of  the  States^  in  proportion  to  their  number. 
The  Legislative  power  will  extend  to  taxation^  trade^  and  sundry  other 
general  matters.  The  powers  of  Congress  will  be  distributed^  accord- 
ing to  their  nature,  among  the  several  departments.  The  States  will 
be  restricted  from  paper  money  and  in  a  few  other  instances.  These 
are  the  outlines.  The  extent  of  them  may  perhaps  surprize  you.  I 
hazard  an  opinion  nevertheless  that  the  plan,  should  it  be  adopted, 
will  neither  effectually  answer  its  national  object,  not  prevent  the 
local  mischiefs  which  everywhere  excite  disgusts  agst.  the  State  Gov- 
ernments. The  grounds  of  this  opinion  will  be  the  subject  of  a  future 
letter.  .  .  . 

Nothing  can  exceed  the  universal  anxiety  for  the  event  of  the 

*  Documeniary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  273-276;  Hunt,  Writings  oj 
Madison^  IV,  389-391*     Italicised  words  were  in  cipher  in  the  original. 


78       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

meeting  here.  Reports  and  conjectures  abound  concerning  the 
nature  of  the  plan  which  is  to  be  proposed.  The  public  however  is 
certainly  in  the  dark  with  regard  to  it.  The  Convention  is  equally 
in  the  dark  as  to  the  reception  wch.  may  be  given  to  it  on  its  pub- 
lication. All  the  prepossessions  are  on  the  right  side,  but  it  may 
well  be  expected  that  certain  characters  will  wage  war  against  any 
reform  whatever.  My  own  idea  is  that  the  public  mind  will  now 
or  in  a  very  little  time  receive  anything  that  promises  stability  to 
the  public  Councils  &  security  to  private  rights,  and  that  no  regard 
ought  to  be  had  to  local  prejudices  or  temporary  considerations.  If  the 
present  moment  be  lost,  it  is  hard  to  say  what  may  be  our  fate.  . . . 
Mr.  Wythe  has  never  returned  to  us.  His  lady  whose  illness 
carried  him  away,  died  some  time  after  he  got  home. 


CIV.   Jonas  Philups  to  the  President  and  Members  of  the 

Convention.* 
Sires 

With  leave  and  submission  I  address  myself  To  those  in  whome 
there  is  wisdom  understanding  and  knowledge,  they  are  the  hon- 
ourable personages  appointed  and  Made  overseers  of  a  part  of  the 
terrestrial  globe  of  the  Earth,  Namely  the  13  united  states  of  america 
in  Convention  Assembled,  the  Lord  preserve  them  amen  — 

I  the  subscriber  being  one  of  the  people  called  Jews  of  the  City 
of  Philadelphia,  a  people  scattered  and  despersed  among  all  nations 
do  behold  with  Concern  that  among  the  laws  in  the  Constitution 
of  Pennsylvania  their  is  a  Clause  Sect.  10  to  viz  —  I  do  believe  in 
one  God  the  Creature  and  governour  of  the  universe  the  Rewarder 
of  the  good  and  the  punisher  of  the  wicked  —  and  I  do  acknowledge 
the  scriptures  of  the  old  and  New  testement  to  be  given  by  a  devine 
inspiration  —  to  swear  and  believe  that  the  new  testement  was  given 
by  devine  inspiration  is  absolutly  against  the  Religious  principle 
of  a  Jew.  and  is  against  his  Conscience  to  take  any  such  oath  —  By 
the  above  law  a  Jew  is  deprived  of  holding  any  publick  office  or  place 
of  Goverment  which  is  a  Contridectory  to  the  bill  of  Right  Sect 
2.  viz 

That  all  men  have  a  natural  and  unalienable  Right  To  worship 
almighty  God  according  to  the  dectates  of  their  own  Conscience 
and  understanding,  and  that  no  man  aught  or  of  Right  can  be  Com- 
pelled to  attend  any  Relegious  Worship  or  Erect  or  support  any 
place  of  worship  or  Maintain  any  minister  contrary  to  or  against 
his  own  free  will  and  Consent  nor  Can  any  man  who  acknowledges 

^  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  I,  281-283. 


APPENDIX   A,    CIV  79 

the  being  of  a  God  be  Justly  deprived  or  abridged  of  any  Civil  Right 
as  a  Citizen  on  account  of  his  Religious  sentiments  or  peculiar  mode 
of  Religious  Worship,  and  that  no  authority  Can  or  aught  to  be  vested 
in  or  assumed  by  any  power  what  ever  that  shall  in  any  Case  inter- 
fere or  in  any  manner  Controul  the  Right  of  Conscience  in  the  free 
Exercise  of  Religious  Worship  — 

It  is  well  known  among  all  the  Citizens  of  the  13  united  States 
that  the  Jews  have  been  true  and  faithful  whigs,  and  during  the  late 
Contest  with  England  they  have  been  foremost  in  aiding  and  assist- 
ing the  States  with  their  lifes  and  fortunes,  they  have  supported  the 
Cause,  have  bravely  faught  and  bleed  for  liberty  which  they  Can 
not  Enjoy  — 

Therefore  if  the  honourable  Convention  shall  in  ther  Wisdom  think 
fit  and  alter  the  said  oath  and  leave  out  the  words  to  viz  —  and  I 
do  acknoweledge  the  scripture  of  the  new  testement  to  be  given 
by  devine  inspiration  then  the  Israeletes  will  think  them  self  happy 
to  live  under  a  goverment  where  all  Relegious  societys  are  on  an 
Eaquel  footing  —  I  solecet  this  favour  for  my  self  my  Childreen  and 
posterity  and  for  the  benefit  of  all  the  Isrealetes  through  the  13 
united  States  of  america 

My  prayers  is  unto  the  Lord.  May  the  people  of  this  States 
Rise  up  as  a  great  and  young  lion.  May  they  prevail  against  their 
Enemies,  May  the  degrees  of  honour  of  his  Excellencey  the  president 
of  the  Convention  George  Washington,  be  Extollet  and  Raise  up. 
May  Every  one  speak  of  his  glorious  Exploits.  May  God  prolong 
his  days  among  us  in  this  land  of  Liberty  —  May  he  lead  the  armies 
against  his  Enemys  as  he  has  done  hereuntofore —  May  God 
Extend  peace  unto  the  united  States  —  May  they  get  up  to  the  high- 
est Prosperetys  —  May  God  Extend  peace  to  them  and  their  seed 
after  them  so  long  as  the  Sun  and  moon  Endureth  —  and  may  the 
almighty  God  of  our  father  Abraham  Isaac  and  Jacob  endue  this 
Noble  Assembly  with  wisdom  Judgement  and  unamity  in  their 
Councells,  and  may  they  have  the  Satisfaction  to  see  that  their 
present  toil  and  labour  for  the  wellfair  of  the  united  States  may  be 
approved  of.  Through  all  the  world  and  perticular  by  the  united 
States  of  america  is  the  ardent  prayer  of  Sires   * 

Your  Most  devoted  obed  Servant 

Jonas  Phillips 
Philadelphia  24th  EUul  5547  or  Scpr  7th  1787 

[Addressed:]  To  His  Excellency  the  president  and  the  Honourable 
Members  of  the  Convention  assembled 

Present 


80      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

[Endorsed:]  No  8. 

Letter  from  Jonas  Phillips  a  Jew,  dated  Sept.  7.  1787. 
to  the  President  &  Members  of  the  Convention 


CV,   Jonathan  Dayfon  to  Elias  Dayton.* 

Philadelphia,  Sept.  9,  1787. 
We  have  happily  so  far  finished  our  business,  as  to  be  employed 
in  giving  it  its  last  polish  and  preparing  it  for  the  public  inspection. 
This,  I  conclude,  may  be  done  in  three  or  four  days,  at  which  time 
the  public  curiosity  and  our  desire  of  returning  to  our  respective 
homes,  will  equally  be  gratified. 


CVL   Joseph  Jones  to  James  Madison.* 

13  September,  1787. 
The  continuance  of  your  session  and  some  stories  I  have  heard 
since  my  return  and  on  my  visit  to  Alexandria,  make  me  appre- 
hensive there  is  not  that  unanimity  in  your  councils  I  hoped  for 
and  had  been  taught  to  believe.  From  whence  it  originated  I  know 
not,  but  it  is  whispered  here,  there  is  great  disagreement  among  the 
gentlemen  of  our  delegation,  that  the  general  and  yourself  on  a  very 
important  question  were  together,  Mr.  M  —  n  alone  and  singular 
in  his  opinion  and  the  other  two  gentlemen  holding  different  senti- 
ments. I  asked  what  was  the  question  in  dispute,  and  was  answered 
that  it  respected  either  the  defect  in  constituting  the  G^nvention 
as  not  proceeding  immediately  from  the  people,  or  the  referring  the 
proceedings  of  the  body  to  the  people  for  ultimate  decision  and  con- 
firmation. My  informant  also  assured  me  the  fact  might  be  relied 
on  as  it  came,  as  he  expressed  it,  from  the  fountain  head.  I  took 
the  liberty  to  express  my  disbelief  of  the  fact  and  that  from  the 
circumstances  related  it  was  very  improbable  and  unworthy  atten- 
tion. I  mention  this  matter  for  want  of  something  else  to  write  to 
you,  and  more  especially  as  it  respects  our  delegation  in  particular. 


CVII.    Sydney  to  Lord  Dorchester.' 

Whitehall,  14  Sept.,  1787. 
The  report  of  an  intention  on  the  part  of  America  to  apply  for 
a  sovereign  of  the  house  of  Hanover^  has  been  circulated  here;  and 

^  Jameson,  Studies  in  the  History  of  the  Federal  Conveniion  in  Annual  Report  of  the 
American  Historical  Association^  for  1902,  p.  100. 

*  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  Proceedings^  lA  Series,  XVII,  474-475. 

*  Bancroft,  History  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Uniud  States,  II,  441. 

*  See  XCII  above. 


APPENDIX  A,   CVin  8 1 

should  an  application  of  that  nature  be  made,  it  will  require  a  very 
nice  consideration  in  what  manner  so  important  a  subject  should 
be  treated.  But  whatever  ideas  may  have  been  formed  upon  it, 
it  will  upon  all  accounts  be  advisable  that  any  influence  which  your 
lordship  may  possess  should  be  exerted  to  discourage  the  strengthen- 
ing their  alliance  with  the  house  of  Bourbon,  which  must  naturally 
follow  were  a  sovereign  to  be  chosen  from  any  branch  of  that  family. 


CVIII.    John  Dickinson  to  George  Read.^ 

Mr.  Dickinson  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  Read,  and  re- 
quests that  if  the  constitution,  formed  by  the  convention,  is  to  be 
signed  by  the  members  of  that  body,  Mr.  Read  will  be  so  good  as 
to  subscribe  Mr.  Dickinson's  name  —  his  indisposition  and  some 
particular  circumstances  requiring  him  to  return  home.* 
September  15  th,  1787.  

CDC    George  Washington:  Diary.' 

[September],  Saturday  15th. 
concluded  the  business  of  G>nvention,  all  to  signing  the  proceedings; 
to  e£Fect  which  the  House  sat  till  6  o'clock;  and  adjourned  'till 
Monday  that  the  G>nstitution  which  it  was  proposed  to  offer  to  the 
People  might  be  engrossed  —  and  a  number  of  printed  copies  struck 
off.—  

ex.   George  Washington:  Diary.^ 

[September]  Monday  —  17th. 
Met  in  Convention  when  the  Constitution  received  the  unanimous 
assent  of  11  States  and  Colo.  Hamilton's  from  New  York  (the  only 
delegate  from  thence  in  Convention)  and  was  subscribed  to  by  every 
Member  present  except  Govr.  Randolph  and  Colo.  Mason  from  Vir- 
ginia —  &  Mr.  Gerry  from  Massachusetts.  The  business  being  thus 
closed,  the  Members  adjourned  to  the  City  Tavern,  dined  together 
and  took  a  cordial  leave  of  each  other.  —  after  which  I  returned  to 
my  lodgings  —  did  some  business  with,  and  received  the  papers  from 
the  secretary  of  the  Convention,  and  retired  to  meditate  on  the  mo- 
mentous wk.  which  had  been  executed,  after  not  less  than  five,  for  a 
large  part  of  the  time  six,  and  sometimes  7  hours  sitting  every  day, 
Sundays  &  the  ten  days  adjournment  to  give  a  Commee.  oppor- 
tunity &  time  to  arrange  the  business  for  more  than  four  months.  — 

^  W.  T.  Read,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  George  Read,  456-457. 
'  Dickinson's  signature  to  the  Constitution  is  in  Read's  handwriting. 
'  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  277. 
*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  281. 


82       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CXI.    William  Jackson  to  General  Washington.* 

Monday  evening 
Major  Jackson   presents   his   most  respectful   compliments   to 

General  Washington.    .  .  . 

Major  Jackson,  after  burning  all  the  loose  scraps  of  paper  which 

belong  to  the  Convention,  will  this  evening  wait  upon  the  General 

with  the  Journals  and  other  papers  which  their  vote  directs  to  be 

delivered  to  His  Excellency 

[Endorsed:]  From  Majr  Wm.  Jackson  17th  Sep.  1787. 


CXIa.   Pennsylvania  Herald  and  General  Advertiser. 

September  18,  1787. 
Yesterday  afternoon,  about  four  o'clock  the  foederal  conven- 
tion .  .  .  broke  up.  

CXn.    Nicholas  Gilman  to  President  Sullivan.* 

Philadelphia  September  i8th  1787 
I  have  the  pleasure  to  inform  your  Excellency  that  the  impor- 
tant business  of  the  Convention  is  closed.  —  their  Secretary  set 
off  this  morning  to  present  the  Honorable  the  Congress  with  a  report 
of  their  proceedings  and  the  Convention  adjourned  without  day. 

CXni.   Nicholas  Gilman  to  Joseph  Gilman.' 

Philadelphia,  September  18,  1787. 
The  important  business  of  the  Convention  being  closed,  the 
Secretary  set  off  this  morning  to  present  Congress  with  a  report  of 
their  proceedings,  which  I  hope  will  come  before  the  States  in  the 
manner  directed,  but  as  some  time  must  necessarily  elapse  before 
that  can  take  place,  I  do  myself  the  pleasure  to  transmit  the  en- 
closed papers  for  your  private  satisfaction  forbearing  all  comments 
on  the  plan  but  that  it  is  the  best  that  could  meet  the  unanimous 
concurrence  of  the  States  in  Convention;  it  was  done  by  bargain 
and  Compromise,  yet  notwithstanding  its  imperfections,  on  the 
adoption  of  it  depends  (in  my  feeble  judgment)  whether  we  shall 
become  a  respectable  nation,  or  a  people  torn  to  pieces  by  intestine 
commotions,  and  rendered  contemptible  for  ages. 

^  Docununtary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  281. 

•  New  Hampshire  State  Papers,  XXI,  836. 

*  Hunt,  Fragments  of  Revolutionary  History  (Brooklyn,  1892),  p.  ijd. 


APPENDIX  A,   CXIV  83 

CXTV.    Edmund  Randolph  to  Beverley  Randolph.^ 

Phila.,  Sept.  18,  1787. 
I  do  myself  the  honor  of  forwarding  to  the  executive  a  copy  of 
the  national  constitution.  Altho'  the  names  of  Colo.  Mason  and 
myself  are  not  subscribed,  it  is  not,  therefore,  to  be  concluded  that 
we  are  opposed  to  its  adoption.  Our  reasons  for  not  subscribing 
will  be  better  explained  at  large,  and  on  a  personal  interview,  than 
by  letter.  

CXV.    North  Carolina  Delegates  to  Governor  Caswell.* 

Philadelphia,  September  i8th,  1787. 
In  the  course  of  four  Months  severe  and  painful  application 
and  anxiety,  the  Convention  have  prepared  a  plan  of  Government 
for  the  United  States  of  America  which  we  hope  will  obviate  the 
defects  of  the  present  Federal  Union  and  procure  the  enlarged  pur- 
poses which  it  was  intended  to  effect.  Enclosed  we  have  the  honor 
to  send  you  a  Copy,  and  when  you  are  pleased  to  lay  this  plan  before 
the  General  Assembly  we  entreat  that  you  will  do  us  the  justice  to 
assure  that  honorable  Body  that  no  exertions  have  been  wanting 
on  our  part  to  guard  and  promote  the  particular  interest  of  North 
Carolina.  You  will  observe  that  the  representation  in  the  second 
Branch  of  the  National  Legislature  is  to  be  according  to  numbers, 
that  is  to  say,  According  to  the  whole  number  of  white  Inhabitants 
added  to  three-fifths  of  the  blacks;  you  will  also  observe  that  dur- 
ing the  first  three  years  North  Carolina  is  to  have  five  Members  in 
the  House  of  Representatives,  which  is  just  one-thirteenth  part  of 
the  whole  number  in  that  house  and  our  Annual  Quota  of  the  Na- 
tional debt  has  not  hitherto  been  fixed  quite  so  high.  Doubtless 
we  have  reasons  to  believe  that  the  Citizens  of  North  Carolina  are 
more  than  a  thirteenth  part  of  the  whole  number  in  the  Union,  but 
the  State  has  never  enabled  its  Delegates  in  Congress  to  prove  this 
Opinion  and  hitherto  they  had  not  been  Zealous  to  magnify  the 
number  of  their  Constituents  because  their  Quota  of  the  National 
Debt  must  have  been  Augmented  accordingly.  We  had  many 
things  to  hope  from  a  National  Government  and  the  chief  thing  we 
had  to  fear  from  such  a  Government  was  the  Risque  of  unequal  or 
heavy  Taxation,  but  we  hope  you  will  believe  as  we  do  that  the 
Southern  States  in  general  and  North  Carolina  in  particular  are 
well  secured  on  that  head  by  the  proposed  system.  It  is  provided 
in  the  9th  Section  of  Article  the  first  that  no  Capitation  or  other 

^  Firginia  CaUndar  of  StaU  Papers^  IV,  343. 
*  North  Carolina  StaU  Ricords^  XX,  777-779. 


84      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

direct  Tax  shall  be  laid  except  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  Inhabi- 
tants, in  which  number  five  blacks  are  only  G>unted  as  three.  If 
a  land  tax  is  laid  we  are  to  pay  the  same  rate,  for  Example:  fifty 
Citizens  of  North  Carolina  can  be  taxed  no  more  for  all  their  Lands 
than  fifty  Citizens  in  one  of  the  Eastern  States.  This  must  be 
greatly  in  our  favour  for  as  most  of  their  Farms  are  small  &  many 
of  them  live  in  Towns  we  certainly  have,  one  with  another,  land  of 
twice  the  value  that  they  Possess.  When  it  is  also  considered  that 
five  Negroes  are  only  to  be  charged  the  Same  Poll  Tax  as  three 
whites  the  advantage  must  be  considerably  increased  under  the  pro- 
posed Form  of  Government.  The  Southern  States  have  also  a  much 
better  Security  for  the  Return  of  Slaves  who  might  endeavour  to 
Escape  than  they  had  under  the  original  Confederation.  It  is 
expected  a  considerable  Share  of  the  National  Taxes  will  be  collected 
by  Impost,  Duties  and  Excises,  but  you  will  find  it  provided  in  the 
8th  Section  of  Article  the  first  that  all  duties.  Impost  and  excises 
shall  be  uniform  throughout  the  United  States.  While  we'  were 
taking  so  much  care  to  guard  ourselves  against  being  over  reached 
and  to  form  rules  of  Taxation  that  might  operate  in  our  favour,  it 
is  not  to  be  supposed  that  our  Northern  Brethren  were  Inattentive 
to  their  particular  Interest.  A  navigation  Act  or  the  power  to  regu- 
late Commerce  in  the  Hands  of  the  National  Government  by  which 
American  Ships  and  Seamen  may  be  fully  employed  is  the  desirable 
weight  that  is  throvm  into  the  Northern  Scale.  This  is  what  the 
Southern  States  have  given  in  Exchange  for  the  advantages  we 
Mentioned  above;  but  we  beg  leave  to  observe  in  the  course  of  this 
Interchange  North  Carolina  does  not  appear  to  us  to  have  given 
up  anything  for  we  are  doubtless  the  most  independent  of  the  South- 
em  States;  we  are  able  to  carry  our  own  produce  and  if  the  Spirit 
of  Navigation  and  Ship  building  is  cherished  in  our  State  we  shall 
soon  be  able  to  carry  for  our  Neighbors.  We  have  taken  the  liberty 
to  mention  the  General  pecuniary  Considerations  which  are  involved 
in  this  plan  of  Government,  there  are  other  Considerations  of  great 
Magnitude  involved  in  the  system,  but  we  cannot  exercise  your 
patience  with  a  further  detail,  but  submit  it  with  the  utmost  defer- 
ence, and  have  the  Honor  to  be. 

Your  Excellency's  Most  Obedient  Humble  Servts, 

Wm.   Blount, 
Rich'd  D.  Spaight, 
Hugh  Williamson. 


APPENDIX  A,   CXVI  85 

CXVI.    James  McHenry:    Anecdotes.^ 

18  — 
A  lady  asked  Dr.  Franklin  Well  Doctor  what  have  we  got  a 
republic  or  a  monarchy  —  A  republic  replied  the  Doctor  if  you  can 
keep  it.* 

*  The  lady  here  aluded  to  was  Mn.  Powel  of  Philada. 

Mr.  Martin  said  one  day  in  company  with  Mr  Jenifer  speaking 
of  the  system  before  Convention  — 

I'll  be  hanged  if  ever  the  people  of  Maryland  agree  to  It.  I 
advise  you  said  Mr  Jenifer  to  stay  in  Philadelphia  lest  you  should 
be  hanged. 

CXVII.    Anecdote.* 

When  the  Convention  to  form  a  Constitution  was  sitting  in 
Philadelphia  in  1787,  of  which  General  Washington  was  president, 
he  had  stated  evenings  to  receive  the  calls  of  his  friends.  At  an 
interview  between  Hamilton,  the  Morrises,  and  others,  the  former 
remarked  that  Washington  was  reserved  and  aristocratic  even  to 
his  intimate  friends,  and  allowed  no  one  to  be  familiar  with  him. 
Gouvemeur  Morris  said  that  was  a  mere  fancy,  and  he  could  be  as 
familiar  with  Washington  as  with  any  of  his  other  friends.  Hamil- 
ton replied,  "If  you  will,  at  the  next  reception  evenings,  gently  slap 
him  on  the  shoulder  and  say,  'My  dear  General,  how  happy  I  am 
to  see  you  look  so  well!'  a  supper  and  wine  shall  be  provided  for  you 
and  a  dozen  of  your  friends."  The  challenge  was  accepted.  On 
the  evening  appointed,  a  large  number  attended;  and  at  an  early 
hour  Gouverneur  Morris  entered,  bowed,  shook  hands,  laid  his  left 
hand  on  Washington's  shoulder,  and  said,  "My  dear  General,  I 
am  very  happy  to  see  you  look  so  well!"  Washington  withdrew 
his  hand,  stepped  suddenly  back,  fixed  his  eye  on  Morris  for  several 
minutes  with  an  angry  frown,  until  the  latter  retreated  abashed, 
and  sought  refuge  in  the  crowd.  The  company  looked  on  in  sil- 
ence. At  the  supper,  which  was  provided  by  Hamilton,  Morris 
said,  "  I  have  won  the  bet,  but  paid  dearly  for  it,  and  nothing  could 
induce  me  to  repeat  it.* 

^  Amnican  Historical  R^view^  XI,  618.    The  date  of  this  is  uncertain. 

*This  anecdote  is  taken  from  James  Parton,  Life  of  Thomas  Jefferson^  (1874), 
p.  369. 

*  This  is  doubtless  the  same  story  told  in  another  form  by  W.  T.  Read  in  his  Lift 
and  Correspondence  of  George  Read(  1870,  p.  441  note): 

"But  it  appears  from  the  following  anecdote,  communicated  to  me  by  Mrs.  Susan 


86       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CXVIII.    William  Pierce:  Anecdote.^ 

When  the  Convention  first  opened  at  Philadelphia,  there  were  a 
number  of  propositions  brought  forward  as  great  leading  principles 
for  the  new  Government  to  be  established  for  the  United  States.  A 
copy  of  these  propositions  was  given  to  each  Member  with  the  injunc- 
tion to  keep  everything  a  profound  secret.  One  morning,  by  acci- 
dent, one  of  the  Members  dropt  his  copy  of  the  propositions,  which 
being  luckily  picked  up  by  General  Mifflin  was  presented  to  General 
Washington,  our  President,  who  put  it  in  his  pocket.  After  the 
debates  of  the  Day  were  over,  and  the  question  for  adjournment 
was  called  for,  the  General  arose  from  his  seat,  and  previous  to  his 
putting  the  question  addressed  the  G>nvention  in  the  following 
manner,  — 
Gentlemen 

^'I  am  sorry  to  find  that  some  one  Member  of  this  Body,  has 
been  so  neglectful  of  the  secrets  of  the  Convention  as  to  drop  in 
the  State  House  a  copy  of  their  proceedings,  which  by  accident  was 
picked  up  and  delivered  to  me  this  Morning.  I  must  entreat  Gentle- 
men to  be  more  careful,  least  our  transactions  get  into  the  News 
Papers,  and  disturb  the  public  repose  by  premature  speculations. 
I  know  not  whose  Paper  it  is,  but  there  it  is  (throwing  it  down  on 
the  table),  let  him  who  owns  it  take  it."  At  the  same  time  he  bowed, 
picked  up  his  Hat,  and  quitted  the  room  with  a  dignity  so  severe 

Eckard,  of  Philadelphia,  daughter  of  Colonel  James  Read,  that  Mr.  Morris  was  once 
frightened,  embarrassed,  and  sensible  of  inferiority  in  the  presence  of  a  fellow-mortal: 

"Gouvemeur  Morris,  a  very  handsome,  bold,  and  —  I  have  heard  the  ladies  say 
—  very  impudent  man.  His  talents  and  services  are  part  of  American  history.  He 
wore  a  wooden  leg.  He  was  not  related  to  the  great  financier,  who  was  said  to  be  a 
natural  child.  The  office  of  Mr.  [Robert]  Morris  was  only  divided  from  papa's  by  a 
small  entry,  and  was  constantly  visited  by  Mr.  Gouvemeur  Morris,  and  papa's  also. 
One  day  the  latter  entered,  and  papa  was  so  struck  by  his  crest-fallen  appearance  that 
he  asked,  *Are  you  not  well?*  He  replied,  *I  am  not,  —  the  devil  got  poesession  of  me 
last  night.'  'I  have  often  cautioned  you  against  him,'  said  papa,  playfully,  'but  what 
has  happened  to  disturb  you?'  'I  was  at  the  President's  last  night;  several  members 
of  the  Cabinet  were  there.  The  then  absorbing  question,  (*I  forget,'  Mrs.  E.  writes, 
'what  it  was')  'was  brought  up.  The  President  was  standing  with  his  arms  behind 
him,  —  his  usual  position,  —  his  back  to  the  fire,  listening.  Hamilton  made  a  speech 
I  did  not  like.  I  started  up  and  spoke,  stamping,  as  I  walked  up  and  down,  with  my 
wooden  leg;  and,  as  I  was  certain  I  had  the  best  of  the  argument,  as  I  finished  I  stalked 
up  to  the  President,  slapped  him  on  the  back,  and  said,  'Ain't  I  right,  general?'  The 
President  did  not  speak,  but  the  majesty  of  the  American  people  was  before  me.  Oh, 
his  look!  How  I  wished  the  floor  would  open  and  I  could  descend  to  the  cellar!  You 
know  me,'  continued  Mr.  Morris,  'and  you  know  my  eye  would  never  quail  before  any 
other  mortal.'" 

^  American  Historical  Rjevieto^  HI,  324-325,  It  is  impossible  to  assign  any  date 
to  the  relation  of  this  anecdote. 


APPENDIX  A,   CXIX  87 

that  every  Person  seemed  alarmed;  for  my  part  I  was  extremely 
so,  for  putting  my  hand  in  my  pocket  I  missed  my  copy  of  the  same 
Paper,  but  advancing  up  to  the  Table  my  fears  soon  dissipated; 
I  found  it  to  be  the  hand  writing  of  another  Person.  When  I  went 
to  my  lodgings  at  the  Indian  Queen,  I  found  my  copy  in  a  coat  pocket 
which  I  had  pulled  ofiF  that  Morning.  It  is  something  remarkable 
that  no  Person  ever  owned  the  Paper. 


CXIX.    William  Pierce:  Character  Sketches  of  Delegates 

TO  THE  Federal  Convention.^ 

From  New  Hampshire. 

Jno.  Langdon  Esqr.  and  Nichs.  Gilman  Esquire. 

Mr.  Langdon  is  a  Man  of  considerable  fortune,  possesses  a  liberal 
mind,  and  a  good  plain  understanding.  —  about  40  years  old. 

Mr.  Gilman  is  modest,  genteel,  and  sensible.    There  is  nothing 
brilliant  or  striking  in  his  character,  but  there  is  something  respect- 
able and  worthy  in  the  Man.  —  about  30  years  of  age. 
From  Massachusetts. 

Rufus  King,  Natl.  Gorham,  Gerry  and  Jno.  [Caleb]  Strong 
Esquires. 

Mr.  King  is  a  Man  much  distinguished  for  his  eloquence  and 
great  parliamentary  talents.  He  was  educated  in  Massachusetts, 
and  is  said  to  have  good  classical  as  well  as  legal  knowledge.  He 
has  served  for  three  years  in  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  with 
great  and  deserved  applause,  and  is  at  this  time  high  in  the  con- 
fidence and  approbation  of  his  Country-men.  This  Gentleman  is 
about  thirty  three  years  of  age,  about  five  feet  ten  Inches  high, 
well  formed,  an  handsome  face,  with  a  strong  expfessive  Eye,  and 
a  sweet  high  toned  voice.  In  his  public  speaking  there  is  something 
peculiarly  strong  and  rich  in  his  expression,  clear,  and  convincing 
in  his  arguments,  rapid  and  irresistible  at  times  in  his  eloquence 
but  he  is  not  always  equal.  His  action  is  natural,  swimming,  and 
graceful,  but  there  is  a  rudeness  of  manner  sometimes  accompany- 
ing it.  But  take  him  tout  en  sembUy  he  may  with  propriety  be  ranked 
among  the  Luminaries  of  the  present  Age. 

Mr.  Gorham  is  a  Merchant  in  Boston,  high  in  reputation,  and 
much  in  the  esteem  of  his  Country-men.  He  is  a  Man  of  very  good 
sense,  but  not  much  improved  in  his  education.  He  is  eloquent 
and  easy  in  public  debate,  but  has  nothing  fashionable  or  elegant 

^  American  Historical  Review^  III,  325-334.  It  is  impossible  to  assign  any  exact 
date  to  the  writing  of  these  sketches.  A  comparison  of  this  with  the  characterizatioBS 
reported  to  the  French  government  (see  CLIX  below)  is  interesting. 


88       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

in  his  style;  —  all  he  aims  at  is  to  convince,  and  where  he  fails  it 
never  is  from  his  auditory  not  understanding  him,  for  no  Man  is 
more  perspicuous  and  full.  He  has  been  President  of  Congress, 
and  three  years  a  Member  of  that  Body.  Mr.  Gorham  is  about  46 
years  of  age,  rather  lusty,  and  has  an  agreable  and  pleasing  manner. 

Mr.  Gerry's  character  is  marked  for  integrity  and  perseverance. 
He  is  a  hesitating  and  laborious  speaker;  —  possesses  a  great  degree 
of  confidence  and  goes  extensively  into  all  subjects  that  he  speaks 
on,  without  respect  to  elegance  or  flower  of  diction.  He  is  connected 
and  sometimes  clear  in  his  arguments,  conceives  well,  and  cherishes 
as  his  first  virtue,  a  love  for  his  Country.  Mr.  Gerry  is  very  much 
of  a  Gentleman  in  his  principles  and  manners;  —  he  has  been  engaged 
in  the  mercantile  line  and  is  a  Man  of  property.  He  is  about  37 
years  of  age. 

Mr.  Strong  is  a  Lawyer  of  some  eminence,  —  he  has  received  a 
liberal  education,  and  has  good  connections  to  recommend  him. 
As  a  Speaker  he  is  feeble,  and  without  confidence.  This  Gentn.  is 
about  thirty  five  years  of  age,  and  greatly  in  the  esteem  of  his  Col- 
leagues. 

From  Connecticut. 
Saml.  Johnson,  Roger  Sherman,  and  W.  [Oliver]  Elsworth 
Esquires. 

Dr.  Johnson  is  a  character  much  celebrated  for  his  legal  knowl- 
edge; he  is  said  to  be  one  of  the  first  classics  in  America,  and  cer- 
tainly possesses  a  very  strong  and  enlightened  understanding. 

As  an  Orator  in  my  opinion,  there  is  nothing  in  him  that  warrants 
the  high  reputation  which  he  has  for  public  speaking.  There  is 
something  in  the  tone  of  his  voice  not  pleasing  to  the  Ear,  —  but 
he  is  eloquent  and  clear,  —  always  abounding  with  information  and 
instruction.  He  was  once  employed  as  an  Agent  for  the  State  of 
Connecticut  to  state  her  claims  to  certain  landed  territory  before 
the  British  House  of  Commons;  this  Office  he  discharged  with  so 
much  dignity,  and  made  such  an  ingenious  display  of  his  powers, 
that  he  laid  the  foundation  of  a  reputation  which  will  probably 
last  much  longer  than  his  own  life.  Dr.  Johnson  is  about  sixty 
years  of  age,  possesses  the  manners  of  a  Gentleman,  and  engages  the 
Hearts  of  Men  by  the  sweetness  of  his  temper,  and  that  affectionate 
style  of  address  with  which  he  accosts  his  acquaintance. 

Mr.  Sherman  exhibits  the  oddest  shaped  character  I  ever  remem- 
ber to  have  met  with.  He  is  awkward,  un-meaning,  and  unaccount- 
ably strange  in  his  manner.  But  in  his  train  of  thinking  there  is 
something  regular,  deep  and  comprehensive;  yet  the  oddity  of  his 
address,  the  vulgarisms  that  accompany  his  public  speaking,  and 


APPENDIX  A,   CXIX  89 

that  strange  New  England  cant  which  runs  through  his  public  as 
well  as  his  private  speaking  make  everything  that  is  connected  with 
him  grotesque  and  laughable;  —  and  yet  he  deserves  infinite  praise, 
—  no  Man  has  a  better  Heart  or  a  clearer  Head.  If  he  cannot 
embellish  he  can  furnish  thoughts  that  are  wise  and  useful.  He  is 
an  able  politician,  and  extremely  artful  in  accomplishing  any  par- 
ticular object; —  it  is  remarked  that  he  seldom  fails.  I  am  told 
he  sits  on  the  Bench  in  Connecticut,  and  is  very  correct  in  the  dis- 
charge of  his  Judicial  functions.  In  the  early  part  of  his  life  he  was 
a  Shoe-maker;  —  but  despising  the  lowness  of  his  condition,  he 
turned  Almanack  maker,  and  so  progressed  upwards  to  a  Judge. 
He  has  been  several  years  a  Member  of  Congress,  and  discharged 
the  duties  of  his  Office  with  honor  and  credit  to  himself,  and  advant- 
age to  the  State  he  represented.     He  is  about  60. 

Mr.  Elsworth  is  a  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  in  Connecticut; — 
he  is  a  Gentleman  of  a  clear,  deep,  and  copious  understanding; 
eloquent,  and  connected  in  public  debate;  and  always  attentive  to 
his  duty.  He  is  very  happy  in  a  reply,  and  choice  in  selecting  such 
parts  of  his  adversary's  arguments  as  he  finds  make  the  strongest 
impressions,  —  in  order  to  take  off  the  force  of  them,  so  as  to  admit 
the  power  of  his  own.  Mr.  Elsworth  is  about  37  years  of  age,  a  Man 
much  respected  for  his  integrity,  and  venerated  for  his  abilities. 

From  New  York. 
Alexander  Hamilton,  [Robert]  Yates,  and  W.  [John]  Lansing 
Esquires. 

Colo.  Hamilton  is  deservedly  celebrated  for  his  talents.  He  is 
a  practitioner  of  the  Law,  and  reputed  to  be  a  finished  Scholar.  To 
a  clear  and  strong  judgment  he  unites  the  ornaments  of  fancy,  and 
whilst  he  is  able,  convincing,  and  engaging  in  his  eloquence  the  Heart 
and  Head  sympathize  in  approving  him.  Yet  there  is  something 
too  feeble  in  his  voice  to  be  equal  to  the  strains  of  oratory;  —  it  is 
my  opinion  that  he  is  rather  a  convincing  Speaker,  that  [than]  a 
blazing  Orator.  Colo.  Hamilton  requires  time  to  think,  —  he 
enquires  into  every  part  of  his  subject  with  the  searchings  of  phy- 
losophy,  and  when  he  comes  forward  he  comes  highly  charged  with 
interesting  matter,  there  is  no  skimming  over  the  surface  of  a  subject 
with  him,  he  must  sink  to  the  bottom  to  see  what  foundation  it  rests 
on.  —  His  language  is  not  always  equal,  sometimes  didactic  like 
Bolingbroke's  at  others  light  and  tripping  like  Stem's.  His  eloquence 
is  not  so  defusive  as  to  trifle  with  the  senses,  but  he  rambles  just 
enough  to  strike  and  keep  up  the  attention.  He  is  about  33  years 
old,  of  small  stature,  and  lean.  His  manners  are  tinctured  with  stiff- 
ness, and  sometimes  with  a  degree  of  vanity  that  is  highly  disagreeable. 


90       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Mr.  Yates  is  said  to  be  an  able  Judge.  He  is  a  Man  of  great 
legal  abilities,  but  not  distinguished  as  an  Orator.  Some  of  his 
Enemies  say  he  is  an  anti-federal  Man,  but  I  discovered  no  such 
disposition  in  him.  He  is  about  45  years  old,  and  enjoys  a  great 
share  of  health. 

Mr.  Lansing  is  a  practicing  Attorney  at  Albany,  and  Mayor 
of  that  Corporation.  He  has  a  hisitation  in  his  speech,  that  will 
prevent  his  being  an  Orator  of  any  eminence;  —  his  legal  knowl- 
edge I  am  told  is  not  extensive,  nor  his  education  a  good  one.  He 
is  however  a  Man  of  good  sense,  plain  in  his  manners,  and  sincere 
in  his  friendships.     He  is  about  32  years  of  age. 

From  New  Jersey. 
Wm.  Livingston,  David  Brearly,  Wm.  Patterson,  and  Jonn. 
Dayton,  Esquires. 

Governor  Livingston  is  confessedly  a  Man  of  the  first  rate  talents, 
but  he  appears  to  me  rather  to  indulge  a  sportiveness  of  wit,  than 
a  strength  of  thinking.  He  is  however  equal  to  anything,  from  the 
extensiveness  of  his  education  and  genius.  His  writings  teem  with 
satyr  and  a  neatness  of  style.  But  he  is  no  Orator,  and  seems  little 
acquainted  with  the  guiles  of  policy.  He  is  about  60  years  old,  and 
remarkably  healthy. 

Mr.  Brearly  is  a  man  of  good,  rather  than  of  brilliant  parts. 
He  is  a  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  New  Jersey,  and  is  very  much 
in  the  esteem  of  the  people.  As  an  Orator  he  has  little  to  boast  of, 
but  as  a  Man  he  has  every  virtue  to  recommend  him.  Mr.  Brearly 
is  about  40  years  of  age. 

M.  Patterson  is  one  of  those  kind  of  Men  whose  powers  break 
in  upon  you,  and  create  wonder  and  astonishment.  He  is  a  Man 
of  great  modesty,  with  looks  that  bespeak  talents  of  no  great  extent, 
—  but  he  is  a  Classic,  a  Lawyer,  and  an  Orator;  —  and  of  a  dispo- 
sition so  favorable  to  his  advancement  that  every  one  seemed  ready 
to  exalt  him  with  their  praises.  He  is  very  happy  in  the  choice  of 
time  and  manner  of  engaging  in  a  debate,  and  never  speaks  but  when 
he  understands  his  subject  well.  This  Gentleman  is  about  34  ys. 
of  age,  of  a  very  low  stature. 

Capt.  Dayton  is  a  young  Gentleman  of  talents,  with  ambition 
to  exert  them.  He  possesses  a  good  education  and  some  reading; 
he  speaks  well,  and  seems  desirous  of  improving  himself  in  Oratory. 
There  is  an  impetuosity  in  his  temper  that  is  injurious  to  him;  but 
there  is  an  honest  rectitude  about  him  that  makes  him  a  valuable 
Member  of  Society,  and  secures  to  him  the  esteem  of  all  good  Men. 
He  is  about  30  years  old,  served  with  me  as  a  Brother  Aid  to  Gen- 
eral Sullivan  in  the  Western  expedition  of  '79. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXIX  9 1 

From  Pennsylvania. 

Benja.  Franklin,  Thos.  Mifflin,  Robt.  Morris,  Geo.  Qymer, 
Thomas  Fitzsimons,  Jared  Ingersol,  James  Wilson,  Governeur 
Morris. 

Dr.  Franklin  is  well  known  to  be  the  greatest  phylosopher  of 
the  present  age;  —  all  the  operations  of  nature  he  seems  to  under- 
stand,- the  very  heavens  obey  him,  and  the  Clouds  yield  up  their 
Lightning  to  be  imprisoned  in  his  rod.  But  what  claim  he  has  to 
the  politician,  posterity  must  determine.  It  is  certain  that  he  does 
not  shine  much  in  public  Council,  —  he  is  no  Speaker,  nor  does  he 
seem  to  let  politics  engage  his  attention.  He  is,  however,  a  most 
extraordinary  Man,  and  tells  a  story  in  a  style  more  engaging  than 
anything  I  ever  heard.  Let  his  Biographer  finish  his  character. 
He  is  82  years  old,  and  possesses  an  activity  of  mind  equal  to  a  youth 
of  25  years  of  age. 

General  Mifflin  is  well  known  for  the  activity  of  his  mind,  and 
the  brilliancy  of  his  parts.  He  is  well  informed  and  a  graceful 
Speaker.  The  General  is  about  40  years  of  age,  and  a  very  hand- 
some man. 

Robert  Morris  is  a  merchant  of  great  eminence  and  wealth; 
an  able  Financier,  and  a  worthy  Patriot.  He  has  an  understanding 
equal  to  any  public  object,  and  possesses  an  energy  of  mind  that 
few  Men  can  boast  of.  Although  he  is  not  learned,  yet  he  is  as  great 
as  those  who  are.  I  am  told  that  when  he  speaks  in  the  Assembly 
of  Pennsylvania,  that  he  bears  down  all  before  him.  What  could 
have  been  his  reason  for  not  Speaking  in  the  Convention  I  know 
not,  —  but  he  never  once  spoke  on  any  point.  This  Gentleman  is 
about  50  years  old. 

Mr.  Clymer  is  a  Lawyer  of  some  abilities;  —  he  is  a  respectable 
Man,  and  much  esteemed.    Mr.  Clymer  is  about  40  years  old. 

Mr.  Fitzsimons  is  a  Merchant  of  considerable  talents,  and  speaks 
very  well  I  am  told,  in  the  Legislature  of  Pennsylvania.  He  is 
about  40  years  old. 

Mr.  Ingersol  is  a  very  able  Attorney,  and  possesses  a  clear  legal 
understanding.  He  is  well  educated  in  the  Classic's,  and  is  a  Man 
of  very  extensive  reading.  Mr.  Ingersol  speaks  well,  and  compre- 
hends his  subject  fully.  There  is  a  modesty  in  his  character  that 
keeps  him  back.     He  is  about  36  years  old. 

Mr.  Wilson  ranks  among  the  foremost  in  legal  and  political 
knowledge.  He  has  joined  to  a  fine  genius  all  that  can  set  him  off 
and  show  him  to  advantage.  He  is  well  acquainted  with  Man,  and 
understands  all  the  passions  that  influence  him.  Government 
seems  to  have  been  his  peculiar  Study,  all  the  political  institutions 


92       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  the  World  he  knows  in  detail,  and  can  trace  the  causes  and  effects 
of  every  revolution  from  the  earliest  stages  of  the  Greecian  common- 
wealth down  to  the  present  time.  No  man  is  more  clear,  copious, 
and  comprehensive  than  Mr.  Wilson,  yet  he  is  no  great  Orator.  He 
draws  the  attention  not  by  the  charm  of  his  eloquence,  but  by  the 
force  of  his  reasoning.     He  is  about  45  years  old. 

Mr.  Governeur  Morris  is  one  of  those  Genius's  in  whom  every 
species  of  talents  combine  to  render  him  conspicuous  and  flourish- 
ing in  public  debate:  —  He  winds  through  all  the  mazes  of  rhetoric, 
and  throws  around  him  such  a  glare  that  he  charms,  captivates,  and 
leads  away  the  senses  of  all  who  hear  him.  With  an  infinite  streach 
of  fancy  he  brings  to  view  things  when  he  is  engaged  in  deep  argu- 
mentation, that  render  all  the  labor  of  reasoning  easy  and  pleasing. 
But  with  all  these  powers  he  is  fickle  and  inconstant,  —  never  pur- 
suing one  train  of  thinking,  —  nor  ever  regular.  He  has  gone  through 
a  very  extensive  course  of  reading,  and  is  acquainted  with  all  the 
sciences.  No  Man  has  more  wit,  —  nor  can  any  one  engage  the 
attention  more  than  Mr.  Morris.  He  was  bred  to  the  Law,  but 
I  am  told  he  disliked  the  profession,  and  turned  merchant.  He  is 
engaged  in  some  great  mercantile  matters  with  his  namesake  Mr. 
Robt.  Morris.  This  Gentleman  is  about  38  years  old,  he  has  been 
unfortunate  in  losing  one  of  his  Legs,  and  getting  all  the  flesh  taken 
off  his  right  arm  by  a  scald,  when  a  youth. 

From  Delaware. 

John  Dickinson,  Gunning  Bedford,  Geo:  Richd.  Bassett,  and 
Jacob  Broom  Esquires. 

Mr.  Dickinson  has  been  famed  through  all  America,  for  his 
Farmers  Letters;  he  is  a  Scholar,  and  said  to  be  a  Man  of  very  exten- 
sive information.  When  I  saw  him  in  the  Convention  I  was  induced 
to  pay  the  greatest  attention  to  him  whenever  he  spoke.  I  had 
often  heard  that  he  was  a  great  Orator,  but  I  found  him  an  indiffer- 
ent Speaker.  With  an  affected  air  of  wisdom  he  labors  to  produce 
a  trifle,  —  his  language  is  irregular  and  incorrect,  —  his  flourishes 
(for  he  sometimes  attempts  them),  are  like  expiring  flames,  they  just 
shew  themselves  and  go  out;  —  no  traces  of  them  are  left  on  the 
mind  to  chear  or  animate  it.  He  is,  however,  a  good  writer  and 
will  ever  be  considered  one  of  the  most  important  characters  in  the 
United  States.    He  is  about  55  years  old,  and  was  bred  a  Quaker. 

Mr.  Bedford  was  educated  for  the  Bar,  and  in  his  profession  I 
am  told,  has  merit.  He  is  a  bold  and  nervous  Speaker,  and  has  a 
very  commanding  and  striking  manner;  —  but  he  is  warm  and 
impetuous  in  his  temper,  and  precipitate  in  his  judgment.  Mr. 
Bedford  is  about  32  years  old,  and  very  corpulant. 


APPENDIX  A,   CXIX  93 

Mr.  Read  is  a  Lawyer  and  a  Judge;  —  his  legal  abilities  are 
said  to  be  very  great,  but  his  powers  of  Oratory  are  fatiguing  and 
tiresome  to  the  last  degree;  —  his  voice  is  feeble,  and  his  articula* 
tion  so  bad  that  few  can  have  patience  to  attend  to  him.  He  is 
a  very  good  Man,  and  bears  an  amiable  character  with  those  who 
know  him.  Mr.  Read  is  about  50,  of  a  low  stature,  and  a  weak 
constitution. 

Mr.  Bassett  is  a  religious  enthusiast,  lately  turned  Methodist, 
and  serves  his  Gauntry  because  it  is  the  will  of  the  people  that  he 
should  do  so.  He  is  a  Man  of  plain  sense,  and  has  modesty  enough 
to  hold  his  Tongue.  He  is  a  Gentlemanly  Man,  and  is  in  high  esti- 
mation among  the  Methodists.  Mr.  Bassett  is  about  36  years 
old. 

Mr.  Broom  is  a  plain  good  Man,  with  some  abilities,  but  nothing 
to  render  him  conspicuous.  He  is  silent  in  public,  but  chearful  and 
conversable  in  private.     He  is  about  35  years  old. 

From  Maryland. 
Luther  Martin,  Jas.  McHenry,  Daniel  of  St.  Thomas  Jenifer, 
and  Daniel  Carrol  Esquires. 

Mr.  Martin  was  educated  for  the  Bar,  and  is  Attorney  general 
for  the  State  of  Maryland.  This  Gentleman  possesses  a  good  deal 
of  information,  but  he  has  a  very  bad  delivery,  and  so  extremely 
prolix,  that  he  never  speaks  without  tiring  the  patience  of  all  who 
hear  him.    He  is  about  34  years  of  age. 

Mr.  McHenry  was  bred  a  physician,  but  he  afterwards  turned 
Soldier  and  acted  as  Aid  to  Genl.  Washington  and  the  Marquis  de 
la  Fayette.  He  is  a  Man  of  specious  talents,  with  nothing  of  genious 
to  improve  them.  As  a  politician  there  is  nothing  remarkable  in 
him,  nor  has  he  any  of  the  graces  of  the  Orator.  He  is  however,  a 
very  respectable  young  Gentleman,  and  deserves  the  honor  which 
his  G>untry  has  bestowed  on  him.  Mr.  Mc.  Henry  is  about  32  years 
of  age. 

Mr.  Jenifer  is  a  Gentleman  of  fortune  in  Maryland;  —  he  is 
always  in  good  humour,  and  never  fails  to  make  his  company  pleased 
with  him.  He  sits  silent  in  the  Senate,  and  seems  to  be  conscious 
that  he  is  no  politician.  From  his  long  continuance  in  single  life, 
no  doubt  but  he  has  made  the  vow  of  celibacy.  He  speaks 
warmly  of  the  Ladies  notwithstanding.  Mr.  Jenifer  is  about  55 
years  of  Age,  and  once  served  as  an  Aid  de  Camp  to  Major 
Genl.  Lee. 

Mr.  Carrol  is  a  Man  of  large  fortune,  and  influence  in  his  State. 
He  possesses  plain  good  sense,  and  is  in  the  full  confidence  of  his 
Countrymen.    This  Gentleman  is  about       years  of  age. 


94       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

From  Virginia. 
Genl.  Geo:  Washington,  Geo:  Wythe,  Geo:  Mason,  Jas.  Mad- 
dison  junr.  Jno.  Blair,  Edmd.  Randolph,  and  James  Mc.Lurg. 

Genl.  Washington  is  well  known  as  the  Commander  in  chief  of 
the  late  American  Army.  Having  conducted  these  states  to  inde- 
pendence and  peace,  he  now  appears  to  assist  in  framing  a  Govern- 
ment to  make  the  People  happy.  Like  Gustavus  Vasa,  he  may  be 
said  to  be  the  deliverer  of  his  Country; — like  Peter  the  great  he 
appears  as  the  politician  and  the  States-man;  and  like  Cincinnatus 
he  returned  to  his  farm  perfectly  contented  with  being  only  a  plain 
Citizen,  after  enjoying  the  highest  honor  of  the  Confederacy,  —  and 
now  only  seeks  for  the  approbation  of  his  Country-men  by  being 
virtuous  and  useful.  The  General  was  conducted  to  the  Chair  as 
President  of  the  Convention  by  the  unanimous  voice  of  its  Members. 
He  is  in  the  52d.  year  of  his  age. 

Mr.  Wythe  is  the  famous  Professor  of  Law  at  the  University 
of  William  and  Mary.  He  is  confessedly  one  of  the  most  learned 
legal  Characters  of  the  present  age.  From  his  close  attention  to 
the  study  of  general  learning  he  has  acquired  a  compleat  knowl- 
edge of  the  dead  languages  and  all  the  sciences.  He  is  remarked 
for  his  examplary  life,  and  universally  esteemed  for  his  good  prin- 
ciples. No  Man  it  is  said  understands  the  history  of  Government 
better  than  Mr.  Wythe,  —  nor  any  one  who  understands  the  fluc- 
tuating condition  to  which  all  societies  are  liable  better  than  he  does, 
yet  from  his  too  favorable  opinion  of  Men,  he  is  no  great  politician. 
He  is  a  neat  and  pleasing  Speaker,  and  a  most  correct  and  able 
Writer.     Mr.  Wythe  is  about  55  years  of  age. 

Mr.  Mason  is  a  Gentleman  of  remarkable  strong  powers,  and 
possesses  a  clear  and  copious  understanding.  He  is  able  and  con- 
vincing in  debate,  steady  and  firm  in  his  principles,  and  undoubtedly 
one  of  the  best  politicians  in  America.  Mr.  Mason  is  about  60 
years  old,  with  a  fine  strong  constitution. 

Mr.  Maddison  is  a  character  who  has  long  been  in  public  life; 
and  what  is  very  remarkable  every  Person  seems  to  acknowledge 
his  greatness.  He  blends  together  the  profound  politician,  with 
the  Scholar.  In  the  management  of  every  great  question  he  evi- 
dently took  the  lead  in  the  Convention,  and  tho'  he  cannot  be  called 
an  Orator,  he  is  a  most  agreable,  eloquent,  and  convincing  Speaker. 
From  a  spirit  of  industry  and  application  which  he  possesses  in  a  most 
eminent  degree,  he  always  comes  forward  the  best  informed  Man 
of  any  point  in  debate.  The  affairs  of  the  United  States,  he  perhaps, 
has  the  most  correct  knowledge  of,  of  any  Man  in  the  Union.  He 
has  been  twice  a  Member  of  Congress,  and  was  always  thought  one 


APPENDIX  A,    CXIX  95 

of  the  ablest  Members  that  ever  sat  in  that  Council.  Mr.  Maddison 
is  about  37  years  of  age,  a  Gentleman  of  great  modesty,  —  with  a 
remarkable  sweet  temper.  He  is  easy  and  unreserved  among  his 
acquaintance,  and  has  a  most  agreable  style  of  conversation. 

Mr.  Blair  is  one  of  the  most  respectable  Men  in  Virginia,  both 
on  account  of  his  Family  as  well  as  fortune.  He  is  one  of  the  Judges 
of  the  Supreme  Court  in  Virginia,  and  acknowledged  to  have  a  very 
extensive  knowledge  of  the  Laws.  Mr.  Blair  is  however,  no  Orator, 
but  his  good  sense,  and  most  excellent  principles,  compensate  for 
other  deficiencies.     He  is  about  50  years  of  age. 

Mr.  Randolph  is  Governor  of  Virginia,  —  a  young  Gentleman 
in  whom  unite  all  the  accomplishments  of  the  Scholar,  and  the 
States-man.  He  came  forward  with  the  postulata,  or  first  principles, 
on  which  the  Convention  acted,  and  he  supported  them  with  a  force 
of  eloquence  and  reasoning  that  did  him  great  honor.  He  has  a 
most  harmonious  voice,  a  fine  person  and  striking  manners.  Mr. 
Randolph  is  about  32  years  of  age. 

Mr.  Mc.Lurg  is  a  learned  physician,  but  having  never  appeared 
before  in  public  life  his  character  as  a  politician  is  not  sufficiently 
known.  He  attempted  once  or  twice  to  speak,  but  with  no  great 
success.  It  is  certain  that  he  has  a  foundation  of  learning,  on  which, 
if  he  pleases,  he  may  erect  a  character  of  high  renown.  The  Doctor 
is  about  38  years  of  age,  a  Gentleman  of  great  respectability,  and 
of  a  fair  and  unblemished  character. 

North  Carolina. 

Wm.  Blount,  Richd.  Dobbs  Spaight,  Hugh  Williamson,  Wm. 
Davey,  and  Jno.  [Alexander]  Martin  Esquires. 

Mr.  Blount  is  a  character  strongly  marked  for  integrity  and 
honor.  He  has  been  twice  a  Member  of  Congress,  and  in  that 
office  discharged  his  duty  with  ability  and  faithfulness.  He  is  no 
Speaker,  nor  does  he  possess  any  of  those  talents  that  make  Men 
shine;  —  he  is  plain,  honest,  and  sincere.  Mr.  Blount  is  about  36 
years  of  age. 

Mr.  Spaight  is  a  worthy  Man,  of  some  abilities,  and  fortune. 
Without  possessing  a  Genius  to  render  him  brilliant,  he  is  able  to 
discharge  any  public  trust  that  his  Country  may  repose  in  him.  He 
is  about  31  years  of  age. 

Mr.  Williamson  is  a  Gentleman  of  education  and  talents.  He  en- 
ters freely  into  public  debate  from  his  close  attention  to  most  sub- 
jects, but  he  is  no  Orator.  There  is  a  great  degree  of  good  humour 
and  pleasantry  in  his  character;  and  in  his  manners  there  is  a  strong 
trait  of  the  Gentleman.     He  is  about  48  years  of  age. 

Mr?  Davey  is  s^  Lawyer  of  some  eminence  in  bis  State.     He  is 


96       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

said  to  have  a  good  classical  education,  and  is  a  Gentleman  of  con- 
siderable literary  talents.  He  was  silent  in  the  Convention,  but 
his  opinion  was  always  respected.  Mr.  Davey  is  about  30  years 
of  age. 

Mr.  Martin  was  lately  Governor  of  North  Carolina,  which  office 
he  filled  with  credit.  He  is  a  Man  of  sense,  and  undoubtedly  is 
a  good  politician,  but  he  is  not  formed  to  shine  in  public  debate, 
being  no  Speaker.  Mr.  Martin  was  once  a  Colonel  in  the  Ameri- 
can Army,  but  proved  unfit  for  the  field.  He  is  about  40  years  of  age. 
South  Carolina. 

Jno.  Rutledge,  Chs.  Cotesworth  Pinckney,  Charles  Pinckney, 
and  Pierce  Butler  Esquires. 

Mr.  Rutledge  is  one  of  those  characters  who  was  highly  mounted 
at  the  commencement  of  the  late  revolution;  —  his  reputation  in  the 
first  Congress  gave  him  a  distinguished  rank  among  the  American 
Worthies.  He  was  bred  to  the  Law,  and  now  acts  as  one  of  the  Chan- 
cellors of  South  Carolina.  This  Gentleman  is  much  famed  in  his 
own  State  as  an  Orator,  but  in  my  opinion  he  is  too  rapid  in  his 
public  speaking  to  be  denominated  an  agreeable  Orator.  He  is 
undoubtedly  a  man  of  abilities,  and  a  Gentleman  of  distinction  and 
fortune.  Mr.  Rutledge  was  once  Governor  of  South  Carolina.  He 
is  about  48  years  of  age. 

Mr.  Chs.  Cotesworth  Pinckney  is  a  Gentleman  of  Family  and 
fortune  in  his  own  State.  He  has  received  the  advantage  of  a  liberal 
education,  and  possesses  a  very  extensive  degree  of  legal  knowledge. 
When  warm  in  a  debate  he  sometimes  speaks  well,  —  but  he  is  gen- 
erally considered  an  indifferent  Orator.  Mr.  Pinckney  was  an 
Officer  of  high  rank  in  the  American  army,  and  served  with  great 
reputation  through  the  War.     He  is  now  about  40  years  of  age. 

Mr.  Charles  Pinckney  is  a  young  Gentleman  of  the  most  promis- 
ing talents.  He  is,  altho'  only  24  ys.  of  age,  in  possession  of  a  very 
great  variety  of  knowledge.  Government,  Law,  History  and  Phy- 
losophy  are  his  favorite  studies,  but  he  is  intimately  acquainted  with 
every  species  of  polite  learning,  and  has  a  spirit  of  application  and 
industry  beyond  most  Men.  He  speaks  with  great  neatness  and 
perspicuity,  and  treats  every  subject  as  fully,  without  running  into 
prolixity,  as  it  requires.  He  has  been  a  Member  of  Congress,  and 
served  in  that  Body  with  ability  and  eclat.^ 

Mr.  Butler  is  a  character  much  respected  for  the  many  excellent 

^  "In  reference  to  this  part  of  his  life,  Mr.  Pinckney  frequently  spoke  of  the  deep 
diffidence  and  solemnity  which  he  felt,  being  the  youngest  member  of  the  body,  when- 
ever he  addressed  the  Federal  Convention.'*  (J.  B.  O'Neall,  Biographical  Skftchfj  of 
Uie  Bench  and  Bar  of  South  Carolina^  Charleston,  1859,  II,  140.) 


APPENDIX  A,    CXIX  97 

virtues  which  he  possesses.  But  as  a  politician  or  an  Orator,  he  hat 
no  pretentions  to  either.  He  is  a  Gentleman  of  fortune,  and  takes 
rank  among  the  first  in  South  Carolina.  He  has  been  appointed 
to  Congress,  and  is  now  a  Member  of  the  Legislature  of  South  Caro- 
lina.    Mr.  Butler  is  about  40  years  of  age;  an  Irishman  by  birth. 

For  Georgia. 
Wm.  Few,  Abraham  Baldwin,  Wm.  Pierce,  and  Wm.  Houstoun 
Esqrs. 

Mr.  Few  possesses  a  strong  natural  Genius,  and  from  appli- 
cation has  acquired  some  knowledge  of  legal  matters;  —  he  practices 
at  the  bar  of  Georgia,  and  speaks  tolerably  well  in  the  Legislature. 
He  has  been  twice  a  Member  of  Congress,  and  served  in  that  capacity 
with  fidelity  to  his  State,  and  honor  to  himself.  Mr.  Few  is  about 
35  years  of  age. 

Mr.  Baldwin  is  a  Gentleman  of  superior  abilities,  and  joins  in 
a  public  debate  with  great  art  and  eloquence.  Having  laid  the  foun- 
dation of  a  compleat  classical  education  at  Harvard  College,  he 
pursues  every  other  study  with  ease.  He  is  well  acquainted  with 
Books  and  Characters,  and  has  an  accomodating  turn  of  mind, 
which  enables  him  to  gain  the  confidence  of  Men,  and  to  understand 
them.  He  is  a  practising  Attorney  in  Georgia,  and  has  been  twice 
a  Member  of  Congress.    Mr.  Baldwin  is  about  38  years  of  age. 

Mr.  Houstoun  is  an  Attorney  at  Law,  and  has  been  Member  of 
Congress  for  the  State  of  Georgia.  He  is  a  Gentleman  of  Family, 
and  was  educated  in  England.  As  to  his  legal  or  political  knowledge 
he  has  very  little  to  boast  of.  Nature  seems  to  have  done  more  for 
his  corporeal  than  mental  powers.  His  Person  is  striking,  but  his 
mind  very  little  improved  with  useful  or  elegant  knowledge.  He  has 
none  of  the  talents  requisite  for  the  Orator,  but  in  public  debate  is 
confused  and  irregular.  Mr.  Houstoun  is  about  30  years  of  age  of 
an  amiable  and  sweet  temper,  and  of  good  and  honorable  principles. 

My  own  character  I  shall  not  attempt  to  draw,  but  leave  those 
who  may  choose  to  speculate  on  it,  to  consider  it  in  any  light  that 
their  fancy  or  imagination  may  depict.  I  am  conscious  of  having 
discharged  my  duty  as  a  Soldier  through  the  course  of  the  late 
revolution  with  honor  and  propriety;  and  my  services  in  Congress 
and  the  Convention  were  bestowed  with  the  best  intention  towards 
the  interest  of  Georgia,  and  towards  the  general  welfare  of  the  Con- 
federacy. I  possess  ambition,  and  it  was  that,  and  the  flattering 
opinion  which  some  of  my  Friends  had  of  me,  that  gave  me  a  seat 
in  the  wisest  Council  in  the  World,  and  furnished  me  with  an  oppor- 
tunity of  giving  these  short  Sketches  of  the  Characters  who  com- 
posed it. 


98       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CXX.    Benjamin  Franklin  To  Mrs.  Jane  Mecom.^ 

Philada.  Sept.  20.  1787 
The  Convention  finish'd  the  17th  Instant.  I  attended  the 
Business  of  it  5  Hours  in  every  Day  from  the  Beginning;  which 
is  something  more  than  four  Months.  You  may  judge  from  thence 
that  my  Health  continues;  some  tell  me  I  look  better,  and  they 
suppose  the  daily  Exercise  of  going  &  returning  from  the  State- 
house  has  done  me  good.  —  You  will  see  the  Constitution  we  have 
propos'd  in  the  Papers.  The  Forming  of  it  so  as  to  accommodate 
all  the  different  Interests  and  Views  was  a  difficult  Task:  and  per- 
haps after  all  it  may  not  be  received  with  the  same  Unanimity  in 
the  different  States  that  the  Convention  have  given  the  Example 
of  in  delivering  it  out  for  their  Consideration.  We  have  however 
done  our  best  and  it  must  take  its  chance. 


CXXI.    James  Madison  to  Edmund  Pendleton.* 

Philada.,  Sepr.  20  1787 
The  privilege  of  franking  having  ceased  with  the  Convention, 
I  have  waited  for  this  opportunity  of  inclosing  you  a  copy  of  the 
proposed  Constitution  for  the  U.  States.  I  forbear  to  make  any 
observations  on  it;  either  on  the  side  of  its  merits  or  its  faults.  The 
best  Judges  of  both  will  be  those  who  can  combine  with  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  collective  &  permanent  interest  of  America,  a  freedom 
from  the  bias  resulting  from  a  participation  in  the  work.  If  the 
plan  proposed  be  worthy  of  adoption,  the  degree  of  unanimity 
attained  in  the  Convention  is  a  circumstance  as  fortunate,  as  the 
very  respectable  dissent  on  the  part  of  Virginia  is  a  subject  of  regret. 
The  double  object  of  blending  a  proper  stability  &  energy  in  the 
Government  with  the  essential  characters  of  the  republican  Form, 
and  of  tracing  a  proper  line  of  demarkation  between  the  national 
and  State  authorities,  was  necessarily  found  to  be  as  difficult  as  it 
was  desireable,  and  to  admit  of  an  infinite  diversity  concerning  the 
means  among  those  who  were  unanimously  agreed  concerning  the 
end.  

CXXII.    Edward  Carrington  to  James  Madison.' 

New  York  Sept.  23.  1787 
The  Gentlemen  who  have  arrived  from  the  Convention  inform  us 
that  you  are  on  the  way  to  join  us  —  least,  however,  you  may,  under 

^  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  291. 
■  Documentary  History  0}  ike  Constitution,  IV,  291-292. 
*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  293. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXIII  99 

a  supposition  that  the  state  of  the  delegation  is  such  as  to  admit 
of  your  absence,  indulge  yourself  in  leisurely  movements,  after  the 
fatiguing  time  you  have  had,  I  take  this  precaution  to  apprise  you 
that  the  same  schism  which  unfortunately  happened  in  our  State 
in  Philadelphia,  threatens  us  here  also  —  one  of  our  Colleagues  Mr. 
R.  H.  Lee  is  forming  propositions  for  essential  alterations  in  the 
Constitution,  which  will,  in  eflFect,  be  to  oppose  it. — ^Another,  Mr. 
Grayson,  dislikes  it,  and  is,  at  best  for  giving  it  only  a  silent  passage 
to  the  States.  Mr.  H.  Lee  joins  me  in  opinion  that  it  ought  to  be 
warmly  recommended  to  ensure  its  adoption.  —  a  lukewarmness  in 
Congress  will  be  made  a  ground  of  opposition  by  the  unfriendly 
in  the  States  —  those  who  have  hitherto  wished  to  bring  the  conduct 
of  Congress  into  contempt,  will  in  this  case  be  ready  to  declare  it 
truly  respectable.  

CXXIIL    Sherman  and  Ellsworth  to  the  Governor  of  Con- 
necticut.* 
o.  New  London,  Sept.  26. 

We  have  the  honour  to  transmit  to  your  excellency  a  printed  copy 
of  the  constitution  formed  by  the  federal  convention,  to  be  laid 
before  the  legislature  of  the  state. 

The  general  principles,  which  governed  the  convention  in  their 
deliberations  on  the  subject,  are  stated  in  their  address  to  congress. 

We  think  it  may  be  of  use  to  make  some  further  observations  on 
particular  parts  of  the  constitution. 

The  congress  is  differently  organized:  yet  the  whole  number  of 
members,  and  this  state's  proportion  of  suffrage,  remain  the  same 
as  before. 

The  equal  representation  of  the  states  in  the  senate,  and  the 
voice  of  that  branch  in  the  appointment  to  offices,  will  secure  the 
rights  of  the  lesser,  as  well  as  of  the  greater  states. 

Some  additional  powers  are  vested  in  congress,  which  was  a 
principal  object  that  the  states  had  in  view  in  appointing  the  con- 
vention. Those  powers  extend  only  to  matters  respecting  the  com- 
mon interests  of  the  union,  and  are  specially  defined,  so  that  the 
particular  states  retain  their  sovereignty  in  all  other  matters. 

The  objects,  for  which  congress  may  apply  monies,  are  the 
same  mentioned  in  the  eighth  article  of  the  confederation,  viz.  for 
the  common  defence  and  general  welfare,  and  for  payment  of  the 
debts  incurred  for  those  purposes.  It  is  probable  that  the  prin- 
cipal branch  of  revenue  will  be  duties  on  imports;    what  may  be 

^  Carey's  American  Museum^  II,  434-435. 


lOO     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

necessary  to  be  raised  by  direct  taxation  is  to  be  apportioned  on 
the  several  states,  according  to  the  numbers  of  their  inhabitants, 
and  although  congress  may  raise  the  money  by  their  own  authority, 
if  necessary,  yet  that  authority  need  not  be  exercised,  if  each  state 
will  furnish  its  quota. 

The  restraint  on  the  legislatures  of  the  several  states  respecting 
emitting  bills  of  credit,  making  any  thing  but  money  a  tender  in 
payment  of  debts,  or  impairing  the  obligation  of  contracts  by  ex 
post  facto  laws,  was  thought  necessary  as  a  security  to  commerce, 
in  which  the  interest  of  foreigners,  as  well  as  of  the  citizens  of  differ- 
ent states,  may  be  affected. 

The  convention  endeavoured  to  provide  for  the  energy  of  govern- 
ment on  the  one  hand,  and  suitable  checks  on  the  other  hand,  to 
secure  the  rights  of  the  particular  states,  and  the  liberties  and  prop- 
erties of  the  citizens.  We  wish  it  may  meet  the  approbation  of  the 
several  states,  and  be  a  mean  of  securing  their  rights,  and  lengthen- 
ing out  their  tranquility. 

With  great  respect,  we  are. 

Sir,  your  excellency's 

Obedient  humble  servants, 

Roger  Sherman 

„.  „  TT     -•  ^  Oliver  Elsworth, 

His  excellency  gov.  Huntmgton.  ' 


CXXIV.   William  Pierce  to  St.  George  Tucker.* 

New  York,  Sept.  28,  1787. 

You  ask  me  for  such  information  as  I  can,  with  propriety,  give 
you,  respecting  the  proceedings  of  the  Convention:  In  my  letter 
from  Philadelphia,  in  July  last,  I  informed  you  that  everything 
was  covered  with  the  veil  of  secrecy.  It  is  now  taken  off,  and  the 
great  work  is  presented  to  the  public  for  their  consideratidn.  I 
enclose  you  a  copy  of  it,  with  the  letter  which  accompanies  the 
Constitution. 

You  will  probably  be  surprised  at  not  finding  my  name  affixed 
to  it,  and  will,  no  doubt,  be  desirous  of  having  a  reason  for  it.  Know 
then,  Sir,  that  I  was  absent  in  New  York  on  a  piece  of  business  so 
necessary  that  it  became  unavoidable.  I  approve  of  its  principles, 
and  would  have  signed  it  with  all  my  heart,  had  I  been  present. 
To  say,  however,  that  I  consider  it  as  perfect,  would  be  to  make  an 
acknowledgement  immediately  opposed  to  my  judgment.  Perhaps 
it  is  the  only  one  that  will  suit  our  present  situation.    The  wisdom 

^  Amifiean  Historical  Review,  III.  313-314. 


APPENDIX  A,   CXXV  lOI 

of  the  Convention  was  equal  to  something  greater;  but  a  variety 
of  local  circumstances,  the  inequality  of  states,  and  the  dissonant 
interests  of  the  different  parts  of  the  Union,  made  it  impossible  to 
give  it  any  other  shape  or  form. 


CXXV.   James  Wilson:  Address  to  a  Meeting  of  the  Citizens 

OF  Philadelphia  on  October  6,  1787.^ 

Another  objection  that  has  been  fabricated  against  the  new  con- 
stitution, is  expressed  in  this  disingenuous  form  —  "  the  trial  by 
jury  is  abolished  in  civil  cases."  I  must  be  excused,  my  fellow  citi- 
zens, if,  upon  this  point,  I  take  advantage  of  my  professional  experi- 
ence, to  detect  the  futility  of  the  assertion.  Let  it  be  remembered, 
then,  that  the  business  of  the  foederal  constitution  was  not  local, 
but  general  —  not  limited  to  the  views  and  establishments  of  a 
single  state,  but  co-extensive  with  the  continent,  and  comprehend- 
ing the  views  and  establishments  of  thirteen  independent  sovereign- 
ties. When,  therefore,  this  subject  was  in  discussion,  we  were 
involved  in  difficulties,  which  pressed  on  all  sides,  and  no  precedent 
could  be  discovered  to  direct  our  course.  The  cases  open  to  a  jury, 
differed  in  the  different  states;  it  was  therefore  impracticable,  on 
that  ground,  to  have  made  a  general  rule.  The  want  of  uniformity 
would  have  rendered  any  reference  to  the  practice  of  the  states  idle 
and  useless:  and  it  could  not,  with  any  propriety,  be  said,  that  ''the 
trial  by  jury  shall  be  as  heretofore:"  since  there  has  never  existed 
any  foederal  system  of  jurisprudence,  to  which  the  declaration  could 
relate.  Besides,  it  is  not  in  all  cases  that  the  trial  by  jury  is  adopted 
in  civil  questions:  for  causes  depending  in  courts  of  admiralty,  such 
as  relate  to  maritime  captures,  and  such  as  are  agitated  in  the  courts 
of  equity,  do  not  require  the  intervention  of  that  tribunal.  How, 
then,  was  the  line  of  discrimination  to  be  drawn?  The  convention 
found  the  task  too  difficult  for  them;  and  they  left  the  business  as 
it  stands  —  in  the  fullest  confidence,  that  no  danger  could  possibly 
ensue,  since  the  proceedings  of  the  supreme  court  are  to  be  regulated 
by  the  congress,  which  is  a  faithful  representation  of  the  people: 
and  the  oppression  of  government  is  effectually  barred,  by  declaring 
that  in  all  criminal  cases,  the  trial  by  jury  shall  be  preserved. 

.  .  .  Perhaps  there  never  was  a  charge  made  with  less  reason, 
than  that  which  predicts  the  institution  of  a  baneful  aristocracy  in 
the  foederal  senate.  This  body  branches  into  two  characters,  the 
one  legislative,  and  the  other  executive.  In  its  legislative  character, 
it  can  effect  no  purpose  without  the  co-operation  of  the  house  of 

*  P.  L.  Ford,  PamphUu  on  the  ConstUiUion,  157-159. 


I02      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

representatives:  and  in  its  executive  character,  it  can  accomplish 
no  object,  without  the  concurrence  of  the  president.  Thus  fettered, 
I  do  not  know  any  act  which  the  senate  can  of  itself  perform:  and 
such  dependence  necessarily  precludes  every  idea  of  influence  and 
superiority.  But  I  will  confess,  that  in  the  organization  of  this 
body,  a  compromise  between  contending  interests  is  discernible: 
and  when  we  reflect  how  various  are  the  laws,  commerce,  habits, 
population,  and  extent  of  the  confederated  states,  this  evidence 
of  mutual  concession  and  accommodation  ought  rather  to  command 
a  generous  applause,  than  to  excite  jealousy  and  reproach.  For  my 
part,  my  admiration  can  only  be  equalled  by  my  astonishment,  in 
beholding  so  perfect  a  system  formed  from  such  heterogenous  ma- 
terials.   

CXXVI.    George  Mason  to  George  Washington.* 

Gunston-Hall  Octor.  7th.  1787. 
I  take  the  Liberty  to  enclose  you  my  Objections  to  the  new 
Constitution  of  Government;  which  a  little  Moderation  &  Temper, 
in  the  latter  End  of  the  Convention,  might  have  removed.  I  am 
however  most  decidedly  of  Opinion,  that  it  ought  to  be  submitted 
to  a  Convention  chosen  by  the  People,  for  that  special  Purpose; 
and  shou'd  any  Attempt  be  made  to  prevent  the  calling  such  a  Con- 
vention here,  such  a  Measure  shall  have  every  Opposition  in  my 
Power  to  give  it.  You  will  readily  observe,  that  my  Objections 
are  not  numerous  (the  greater  Part  of  the  inclosed  paper  containing 
Reasonings  upon  the  probable  Effects  of  the  exceptionable  Parts) 
tho'  in  my  mind,  some  of  them  are  capital  ones.' 


CXXVIa.    Pierce  Butler  to  Weedon  Butler.* 

New  York,  October  8th,  1787. 
After  four  months  close  Confinement,  We  closed  on  the  17th 
of  last  month  the  business  Committed  to  Us.  If  it  meets  with  the 
approbation  of  the  States,  I  shall  feel  myself  fully  recompensed  for 
my  share  of  the  trouble,  and  a  Summer's  Confinement  which  in- 
jured my  health  much.  .  .  .  We,  in  many  instances  took  the  Con- 
stitution of  Britain,  when  in  its  purity,  for  a  model,  and  surely  We 
cou'd  not  have  a  better.     We  tried  to  avoid  what  appeared  to  Us 

^Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  315. 

*  The  enclosure  consisted  of  Mason's  well  known  objections  to  the  Constitution. 
The  paper  is  practically  identical  with  that  printed  in  the  Records  of  September  15. 

'  British  Museum,  Additional  MSS.,  16603.  Copy  furnished  through  the 
courtesy  of  the  Department  of  Historical  Research  of  the  Carnegie  Institution  of 
Washington. 


APPENDIX   A,    CXXVII  IO3 

the  weak  parts  of  Antient  as  well  as  Modem  Republicks.  How 
well  We  have  succeeded  is  left  for  You  and  other  Letterd  Men  to 
determine.  It  is  somewhat  singular  yet  so  the  fact  is,  that  I  have 
never  met  with  any  Dutch  man  who  understood  the  Constitution 
of  his  own  Country.  It  is  certainly  a  very  complex  unwieldy  piece 
of  business.  I  have  read  different  Histories  of  it  with  attention, 
and  to  this  hour  I  have  but  a  very  inadequate  idea  of  it.  Pray 
give  me  your  opinion  freely  of  the  One  I  had  some  small  hand  in 
frameing,  after  you  have  read  it.  In  passing  judgment  on  it  you 
must  call  to  mind  that  we  had  Clashing  Interests  to  reconcile  — 
some  strong  prejudices  to  encounter,  for  the  same  spirit  that  brought 
settlers  to  a  certain  Quarter  of  this  Country  is  still  alive  in  it.  View 
the  system  then  as  resulting  from  a  spirit  of  Accomodation  to  dif- 
ferent Interests,  and  not  the  most  perfect  one  that  the  Deputies 
couM  devise  for  a  Country  better  adapted  for  the  reception  of  it 
than  America  is  at  this  day,  or  perhaps  ever  will  be.  It  is  a  great 
Extent  of  Territory  to  be  under  One  free  Government;  the  manners 
and  modes  of  thinking  of  the  Inhabitants,  differing  nearly  as  much 
as  in  different  Nations  of  Europe.  If  we  can  secure  tranquillity  at 
Home,  and  respect  from  abroad,  they  will  be  great  points  gain'd. 
We  have,  as  you  will  see,  taken  a  portion  of  power  from  the  Indi- 
vidual States,  to  form  a  General  Government  for  the  whole  to  pre- 
serve the  Union.  The  General  Government  to  Consist  of  two 
Branches  of  Legislature  and  an  Executive  to  be  vested  in  One  per- 
son for  four  years,  but  elligible  again  —  the  first  Branch  of  the 
Legislature  to  be  elected  by  the  People  of  the  different  States,  agree- 
able to  a  ratio  of  numbers  and  wealth,  to  serve  for  two  years.  The 
Second  to  Consist  of  two  members  from  each  State,  to  be  appointed 
by  the  Legislature  of  the  States  to  serve  for  six  years.  One  third 
to  go  out  every  two  years,  but  to  be  Elligible  again  if  their  State 
thinks  proper  to  appoint  them.  A  Judiciary  to  be  Supreme  in  all 
matters  relating  to  the  General  Government,  and  Appellate  in  State 
Controversies.  The  powers  of  the  General  Government  are  so 
defined  as  not  to  destroy  the  Sovereignty  of  the  Individual  States. 
These  are  the  outlines,  if  I  was  to  be  more  minute  I  shou'd  tire  your 
patience.  

CXXVII.    George  Washington  to  David  Humphreys.* 

Mount  Vernon  October  loth.  1787. 
The  Constitution  that  is  submitted,  is  not  free  from  imperfec- 
tions. —  but  there  are  as  few  radical  defects  in  it  as  could  well  be 

^  Documfntary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  320. 


I04      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

expected^  considering  the  heterogenious  mass  of  which  the  Conven- 
tion was  composed  and  the  diversity  of  interests  that  are  to  be 
attended  to,-  As  a  Constitutional  door  is  opened  for  future  amend- 
ments and  alterations,  I  think  it  would  be  wise  in  the  People  to  accept 
what  is  offered  to  them  and  I  wish  it  may  be  by  as  great  a  majority  of 
them  as  it  was  by  that  of  the  Convention;  but  this  is  hardly  to  be  ex- 
pected because  the  importance  and  sinister  views  of  too  many  char- 
acters, will  be  affected  by  the  change.  Much  will  depend  however 
upon  literary  abilities,  and  the  recommendation  of  it  by  good  pens 
should  be  openly^  I  mean  publickly  afforded  in  the  Gazetees.  Go  mat- 
ters however  as  they  may,  I  shall  have  the  consolation  to  reflect  that 
no  objects  but  the  public  good  —  and  that  peace  and  harmony  which 
I  wished  to  see  prevail  in  the  Convention,  obtruded  even  for  a  moment 
in  my  bosom  during  the  whole  Session  long  as  it  was  — 


CXXVIII.    Letter  to  Jefferson  [?].^ 

Philadelphia  ii.  Oct.  1787. 

I  have  given  two  or  three  papers  which  contain  the  substance 
of  what  has  passed  here  respecting  the  federal  convention,  the 
connecting  thread  is  all  I  shall  send,  except  a  few  minutes  of  the 
proceedings  of  the  convention. 

After  four  months  session  the  house  broke  up.  the  represented 
states,  eleven  &  a  half,  having  unanimously  agreed  to  the  act  handed 
to  you,  there  were  only  three  dissenting  voices;  one  from  New  England, 
a  man  of  sense,  but  a  Grumbletonian.  he  was  of  service  by  objecting 
to  every  thing  he  did  not  propose,  it  was  of  course  more  canvassed, 
&  some  errors  corrected,  the  other  two  are  from  Virginia:  but  Ran- 
dolph wishes  it  well,  &  it  is  thought  would  have  signed  it,  but  he 
wanted  to  be  on  a  footing  with  a  popular  rival  —  both  these  men  sink 
in  the  general  opinion,  no  wonder  they  were  opposed  to  a  Washing- 
ton &  Madison.  Dr.  Franklin  has  gained  much  credit  within  doors 
for  his  conduct,  &  was  the  person  who  proposed  the  general  signa- 
ture, he  had  prepared  his  address  in  writing,  the  exertion  of  speak- 
ing being  too  great,  they  allowed  another  to  read  it.  the  day  previous 
he  sent  for  the  Pennsylvania  delegates;  &  it  was  reported  that  he  did 
it  to  acquaint  them  of  his  disapprobation  of  certain  points,  &  the 
impossibility  of  agreeing  to  them,  his  views  were  different,  he 
wanted  to  allay  every  possible  scruple,  &  make  their  votes  unani- 
mous,   some  of  the  sentiments  of  the  address  were  as  follows. 


^A  copy  of  this  document  in  Jefferson's  handwriting  is  among  the  Jefferson 
Papers  in  the  Library  of  Congress.  It  is  printed  here  from  DocumenUtry  History  of 
the  Constitution,  IV,  ^i^-^ij. 


APPENDIX  A,   CXXVIII  I05 

*We  have  been  long  together,  every  possible  objection  has  been 
combated,  with  so  many  different  &  contending  interests  it  is 
impossible  that  any  one  can  obtain  every  object  of  their  wishes. 
we  have  met  to  make  mutual  sacrifices  for  the  general  good,  and  we 
have  at  last  come  fully  to  understand  each  other,  &  settle  the  terms, 
delay  is  as  unnecessary  as  the  adoption  is  important.  I  confess 
it  does  not  fully  accord  with  my  sentiments,  but  I  have  lived  long 
enough  to  have  often  experienced  that  we  ought  not  to  rely  too 
much  on  our  own  judgments.  I  have  often  found  I  was  mistaken 
in  my  most  favorite  ideas.  I  have  upon  the  present  occasion  given 
up,  upon  mature  reflection,  many  points  which,  at  the  beginning, 
I  thought  myself  immoveably  &  decidedly  in  favor  of.  this  renders 
me  less  tenacious  of  the  remainder,  there  is  a  possibility  of  my 
being  mistaken,  the  general  principle  which  has  presided  over  our 
deliberations  now  guides  my  sentiments.  I  repeat,  I  do  materially 
object  to  certain  points,  8c  have  already  stated  my  objections  — 
but  I  do  declare  that  these  objections  shall  never  escape  me  without 
doors;  as,  upon  the  whole,  I  esteem  the  constitution  to  be  the  best 
possible,  that  could  have  been  formed  under  present  circumstances; 
&  that  it  ought  to  go  abroad  with  one  united  signature,  &  receive 
every  support  8c  countenance  from  us.  I  trust  none  will  refuse  to 
sign  it.  if  they  do,  they  will  put  me  in  mind  of  the  French  girl 
who  was  always  quarelling  &  finding  fault  with  every  one  around 
her,  &  told  her  sister  that  she  thought  it  very  extraordinary,  but 
that  really  she  had  never  found  a  person  who  was  always  in  the  right 
but  herself.'    .  •  • 

The  attempt  is  novel  in  history;  and  I  can  inform  you  of  a  more 
novel  one;  that  I  am  assured  by  the  gentlemen  who  served,  that 
scarcely  a  personality,  or  offensive  expression  escaped  during  the 
whole  session,  the  whole  was  conducted  with  a  liberality  &  candor 
which  does  them  the  highest  honor.  I  may  pronounce  that  it  will 
be  adopted.  General  Washington  lives;  &  as  he  will  be  appointed 
President,  jealousy  on  this  head  vanishes,  the  plan  once  adopted, 
difficulties  will  lessen.  9.  states  can  alter  easier  than  13  agree, 
with  respect  to  Rhode  island,  my  opinion  is  that  she  will  join  speedily, 
she  has  paid  almost  all  her  debts  by  a  sponge,  &  has  more  to  gain 
by  the  adoption  than  any  other  state,  it  will  enable  us  to  gain 
friends,  &  to  oppose  with  force  the  machinations  of  our  enemies. 


Io6      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 
CXXIX. 

OBSERVATIONS 

ON      THE 

PLAN    OF    GOVERNMENT 

SUBMITTED    TO    THE 

FEDERAL    CONVENTION, 

In  PHILADELPHIA,  on  the  28th  of  May,  1787. 

By  Mr.  CHARLES  PINCKNEY, 

Delegate  from  the  State  of  South-Carolina. 

Delivered  at  different  Times  in  the  course  of  their  Discussions. 

NEW- YORK:  —  Printed  by  FRANCIS  CHILDS.^ 


Mr,  President^ 

It  is,  perhaps,  unnecessary  to  state  to  the  House  the  reasons 
which  have  given  rise  to  this  Convention.  The  critical  and  embar- 
rassed situation  of  our  public  affairs  is,  no  doubt,  strongly  impressed 
upon  every  mind.  I  well  know,  it  is  an  undertaking  of  much  deli- 
cacy, to  examine  into  the  cause  of  public  disorders,  but  having  been 
for  a  considerable  time  concerned  in  the  administration  of  the  Fed- 
eral System,  and  an  evidence  of  its  weakness,  I  trust  the  indulgence 
of  the  House  will  excuse  me,  while  I  endeavor  to  state  with  con- 
ciseness, as  well  the  motives  which  induced  the  measure,  as  what 
ought,  in  my  opinion,  to  be  the  conduct  of  the  convention. 

There  is  no  one,  I  believe,  who  doubts  there  is  something  par- 
ticularly alarming  in  the  present  conjuncture.  There  is  hardly  a 
man,  in,  or  out  of  office,  who  holds  any  other  language.  Our  gov- 
ernment is  despised  —  our  laws  are  robbed  of  their  respected  terrors 
—  their  inaction  is  a  subject  of  ridicule  —  and  their  exertion,  of 
abhorrence  and  opposition  —  rank  and  office  have  lost  their  rever- 


*A  reprint  of  the  title-page.  The  text  of  the  entire  pamphlet  is  corrected  from 
the  copy  of  the  original  edition  in  the  Library  of  the  New  York  Historical  Society. 

From  a  letter  of  Madison  (see  CXXX  below)  it  is  evident  that  the  pamphlet 
must  have  been  printed  before  October  14.  (It  was  also  reprinted  in  the  Staie  Gazetu 
of  South  Carolina,  October  29— November  29,  1787,  —  see  Jameson,  Studus^  p.  1 16, 
note.)  The  greater  part  of  the  document  probably  represents  a  speech  prepared  in 
advance  by  Pinckney  to  be  delivered  at  the  time  of  presenting  his  plan  of  govern- 
ment (See  Professor  McLaughlin's  explanation  of  the  identity  of  this  speech  in  the 
American  Historical  Review,  IX,  735— -740.  The  lateness  of  the  hour  on  May  29 
doubtless  prevented  this,  but  portions  of  the  speech  may  have  been  used  later  in  the 
debates  of  the  Convention.  This  would  account  for  the  unusual  wording  of  the 
title-page. 

As  modifications  may  have  been  made  in  the  original  draft,  it  hM  seemed  advis' 
able  to  print  it  here,  rather  than  with  the  Records  of  May  29, 

^et  fuither,  Appendix  D. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXIX  IO7 

ence  and  effect  —  our  foreign  politics  are  as  much  deranged,  as  our 
domestic  economy  —  our  friends  are  slackened  in  their  affection, 
—  and  our  citizens  loosened  from  their  obedience.  We  know  neither 
how  to  yield  or  how  to  enforce  —  hardly  anything  abroad  or  at 
home  is  sound  and  entire  —  disconnection  and  confusion  in  offices, 
in  States  and  in  parties,  prevail  throughout  every  part  of  the  Union. 
These  are  facts,  universally  admitted  and  lamented. 

This  state  of  things  is  the  more  extraordinary,  because  it  imme- 
diately follows  the  close  of  a  war,  when  we  conceived  our  political 
happiness  was  to  commence;  and  because  the  parties  which  divided 
and  were  opposed  to  our  systems,  are  known,  to  be  in  a  great  measure, 
dissolved.  No  external  calamity  has  visited  us  —  we  labor  under 
no  taxation  that  is  new  or  oppressive,  nor  are  we  engaged  in  a  war 
with  foreigners,  or  in  disputes  with  ourselves.  To  what  then,  are 
we  to  attribute  our  embarrassments  as  a  nation?  The  answer  is 
an  obvious  one.  —  To  the  weakness  and  impropriety  of  a  govern- 
ment, founded  in  mistaken  principles  —  incapable  of  combining 
the  various  interests  it  is  intended  to  unite  and  support  —  and  desti- 
tute of  that  force  and  energy,  without  which,  no  government  can 
exist. 

At  the  time  I  pronounce  in  the  most  decided  terms,  this  opinion 
of  our  Confederation,  permit  me  to  remark,  that  considering  the 
circumstances  under  which  it  was  formed  —  in  the  midst  of  a  dan- 
gerous and  doubtful  war,  and  by  men,  totally  inexperienced  in  the 
operations  of  a  system  so  new  and  extensive,  its  defects  are  easily 
to  be  excused.  We  have  only  to  lament  the  necessity  which  obliged 
us  to  form  it  at  that  time,  and  wish  that  its  completion  had  been 
postponed  to  a  period  better  suited  to  deliberation.  I  confess  my- 
self in  sentiment  with  those,  who  were  of  opinion,  that  we  should 
have  avoided  it  if  possible,  during  the  war.  That  it  ought  to  have 
been  formed  by  a  Convention  of  the  States,  expressly  delegated  for 
that  purpose,  and  ratified  by  the  authority  of  the  people.  This 
indispensible  power  it  wants;  and  is,  therefore,  without  the  validity 
a  federal  Constitution  ought  certainly  to  have  had.  In  most  of 
the  States  it  has  nothing  more,  strictly  speaking,  than  a  legislative 
authority,  and  might  therefore  to  be  said,  in  some  measure,  to  be 
under  the  control  of  the  State  legislatures. 

Independent  of  this  primary  defect,  of  not  having  been  formed 
in  a  manner  that  would  have  given  it  an  authority  paramount  to 
the  Constitutions  and  laws  of  the  several  States,  and  rendered  it 
impossible  for  them  to  have  interfered  with  its  objects  or  operations, 
the  first  principles  are  destructive,  and  contrary  to  those  maxims 
of  government  which  have  been  received,  and  approved  for  ages. 


I08      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

In  a  govemmenty  where  the  liberties  of  the  people  are  to  be 
preserved)  and  the  laws  well  administered,  the  executive,  legislative 
and  judicial,  should  ever  be  separate  and  distinct,  and  consist  of 
parts,  mutually  forming  a  check  upon  each  other.    The  Confedera- 
tion seems  to  have  lost  sight  of  this  wise  distribution  of  the  powers 
of  government,  and  to  have  concentred  the  whole  in  a  single  un- 
operative  body,  where  none  of  them  can  be  used  with  advantage 
or  effect.    The  inequality  of  the  principle  of  Representation,  where 
the  largest  and  most  inconsiderable  States  have  an  equal  vote  in 
the  affairs  of  the  Union;  the  want  of  commercial  powers;  of  a  com- 
pelling clause  to  oblige  a  due  and  punctual  obedience  to  the  Con- 
federation;   a  provision  for  the  admission  of  new  States;  for  an 
alteration  of  the  system,  by  a  less  than  unanimous  vote;  of  a  general 
guarantee,  and  in  short  of  numerous  other  reforms  and  establish- 
ments, convince  me,  that  upon  the  present  occasion,  it  would  be 
politic  in  the  Convention  to  determine  that  they  will  consider  the 
subject  de  novo.    That  they  will  pay  no  farther  attention  to  the 
Confederation,  than  to  consider  it  as  good  materials,  and  view  them- 
selves as  at  liberty  to  form  and  recommend  such  a  plan,  as  from  their 
knowledge  of  the  temper  of  the  people,  and  the  resources  of  the 
States,  will  be  most  likely  to  render  our  government  firm  and  united. 
This  appears  to  me,  far  more  proper  than  to  attempt  the  repair  of 
a  system,  not  only  radically  defective  in  principle,  but  which,  if  it 
was  possible  to  give  it  operation,  would  prove  absurd  and  oppres- 
sive.   You  must  not  hesitate  to  adopt  proper  measures,  under  an 
apprehension  the  States  may  reject  them.     From  your  deliberations 
much  is  expected;  the  eyes,  as  well  as  hopes  of  your  constituents 
are  turned  upon  the  Convention;  let  their  expectations  be  gratified. 
Be  assured,   that,   however  unfashionable  for  the  moment,  your 
sentiments  may  be,  yet,  if  your  system  is  accomodated  to  the  situa- 
tion of  the  Union,  and  founded  in  wise  and  liberal  principles,  it  will, 
in  time,  be  consented  to.    An  energetic  government  is  our  policy, 
and  it  will  at  last  be  discovered,  and  prevail. 

Presuming  that  the  question  will  be  taken  up  de  novo,  I  do  not 
conceive  it  necessary  to  go  into  a  minute  detail  of  the  defects  of  the 
present  Confederation,  but  request  permission,  to  submit,  with 
deference  to  the  House,  the  Draft  of  a  Government  which  I  have 
formed  for  the  Union.  The  defects  of  the  present  will  appear  in 
the  course  of  the  examination  I  shall  give  each  article  that  either 
materially  varies  or  is  new.  I  well  know  the  Science  of  Government 
is  at  once  a  delicate  and  difficult  one,  and  none  more  so  than  that 
of  Republics.  I  confess  my  situation  or  experience  have  not  been 
such,  as  to  enable  me,  to  form  the  clearest  and  justest  opinions. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXIX  IO9 

The  sentiments  I  shall  offer,  are  the  result  of  not  so  much  reflection 
as  I  could  have  wished.  The  Plan  will  admit  of  important  amend- 
ments. I  do  not  mean  at  once  to  offer  it  for  the  consideration  of 
the  House,  but  have  taken  the  liberty  of  mentioning  it,  because  it 
was  my  duty  to  do  so. 

The  first  important  alteration  is,  that  of  the  principle  of  Repre- 
sentation, and  the  distribution  of  the  different  Powers  of  Govern- 
ment. In  the  federal  Councils,  each  State  ought  to  have  a  weight 
in  proportion  to  its  importance;  and  no  State  is  justly  entitled  to 
a  greater.  A  Representation  is  the  sign  of  the  reality.  Upon  this 
principle,  however  abused,  the  parliament  of  Great  Britain  is  formed, 
and  it  has  been  universally  adopted  by  the  States  in  the  formation 
of  their  Legislatures.  It  would  be  impolitic  in  us,  to  deem  that 
unjust,  which  is  a  certain  and  beneficial  truth.  The  abuse  of  this 
equality,  has  been  censured  as  one  of  the  most  dangerous  corrup- 
tions of  the  English  Constitution;  and  I  hope  we  shall  not  incau- 
tiously contract  a  disease  that  has  been  consuming  them.  Nothing, 
but  necessity,  could  have  induced  Congress  to  ratify  a  Confedera- 
tion upon  other  principles.  It  certainly  was  the  opinion  of  the  first 
Congress,  in  1774,  to  acquire  materials  for  forming  an  estimate  of 
the  comparative  importance  of  each  State;  for,  in  the  commence- 
ment of  that  session,  they  gave  as  a  reason,  for  allowing  each  colony 
a  vote,  that  it  was  not  in  their  power,  at  that  time,  to  procure  evi- 
dence for  determining  their  importance.  This  idea,  of  a  just  Repre- 
sentation, seems  to  have  been  conformable  to  the  opinions  of  the 
best  writers  on  the  subject,  that,  in  a  confederated  system,  the 
members  ought  to  contribute  according  to  their  abilities,  and  have 
a  vote  in  proportion  to  their  importance.  But  if  each  must  have  a 
vote,  it  can  be  defended  upon  no  other  ground,  than  that  of  each 
contributing  an  equal  share  of  the  public  burdens:  either  would  be 
a  perfect  system.  The  present  must  ever  continue  irreconcileable 
to  justice.  Montesquieu,  who  had  very  maturely  considered  the 
nature  of  a  confederated  Government,  gives  the  preference  to  the 
Lycian,  which  was  formed  upon  this  model.  The  assigning  to  each 
State  its  due  importance  in  the  federal  Councils,  at  once  removes 
three  of  the  most  glaring  defects  and  inconveniences  of  the  present 
Confederation.  The  first  is,  the  inequality  of  Representation:  the 
second  is,  the  alteration  of  the  mode  of  doing  business  in  Congress; 
that  is,  voting  individually,  and  not  by  States:  the  third  is,  that  it 
would  be  the  means  of  inducing  the  States  to  keep  up  their  dele- 
gations by  punctual  and  respectable  appointments.  The  dilatory 
and  unpleasant  mode  of  voting  by  States,  must  have  been  experi- 
enced by  all  who  were  members  of  Congress.     Seven  are  necessary 


no      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

for  any  question,  except  adjourning,  and  nine  for  those  of  importance. 
It  seldom  happens  that  more  than  nine  or  ten  States  are  represented. 
Hence  it  is  generally  in  the  power  of  a  State,  or  of  an  individual,  to 
impede  the  operations  of  that  body.  It  has  frequently  happened, 
and  indeed,  lately,  there  have  rarely  been  together,  upon  the  floor, 
a  sufficient  number  of  States  to  transact  any  but  the  most  trifling 
business.  When  the  different  branches  of  Government  are  properly 
distributed,  so  as  to  make  each  operate  upon  the  other  as  a  check, 
the  apportioning  the  Representation  according  to  the  weight  of  the 
members,  will  enable  us  to  remove  these  difficulties,  by  making  a 
majority  of  the  Houses,  when  constituted,  capable  of  deciding  in 
all,  except  a  few  cases,  where  a  larger  number  may  be  thought  neces- 
sary. The  division  of  the  legislative  will  be  found  essential,  because, 
in  a  government  where  so  many  important  powers  are  intended  to 
be  placed,  much  deliberation  is  requisite.  No  possibility  of  pre- 
cipitately adopting  improper  measures  ought  to  be  admitted,  and 
such  checks  should  be  imposed,  as  we  find,  from  experience,  have 
been  useful  in  other  governments.  In  the  Parliament  of  Great 
Britain,  as  well  as  in  most,  and  the  best  instituted  legislatures  in 
the  States,  we  find,  not  only  two  Branches,  but  in  some,  a  Council 
of  Revision,  consisting  of  their  executive,  and  principal  officers  of 
government.  This,  I  consider  as  an  improvement  in  legislation, 
and  have  therefore  incorporated  it  as  a  part  of  the  system.  It  adds 
to  that  due  deliberation,  without  which,  no  act  should  be  adopted; 
and,  if  in  the  affairs  of  a  State  government,  these  restraints  have 
proved  beneficial,  how  much  more  necessary  may  we  suppose  them, 
in  the  management  of  concerns,  so  extensive  and  important? 

The  Senate,  I  propose  to  have  elected  by  the  House  of  Dele- 
gates, upon  proportionable  principles,  in  the  manner  I  have  stated, 
which,  though  rotative,  will  give  that  body  a  sufficient  degree  of 
stability  and  independence.  The  districts,  into  which  the  Union 
are  to  be  divided,  will  be  so  apportioned,  as  to  give  to  each  its  due 
weight,  and  the  Senate,  calculated  in  this,  as  it  ought  to  be  in  every 
Government,  to  represent  the  wealth  of  the  Nation.  No  mode  can 
be  devised,  more  likely  to  secure  their  independence,  of,  either  the 
people,  or  the  House  of  Delegates,  or  to  prevent  their  being  obliged 
to  accomodate  their  conduct  to  the  influence  or  caprice  of  either. 
The  people,  in  the  first  instance,  will  not  have  any  interference  in 
their  appointment,  and  each  class  being  elected  for  four  years;  the 
House  of  Delegates,  which  nominate,  must,  from  the  nature  of  their 
institution,  be  changed,  before  the  times  of  the  Senators  have  ex- 
pired. 

The  executive  should  be  appointed  septennially,  but  his  eligi- 


APPENDIX  A,   CXXIX  III 

bility  ought  not  to  be  limited:  He  is  not  a  branch  of  the  legislature, 
farther,  than  as  a  part  of  the  Council  of  Revision,  and  the  suffering 
him  to  continue  eligible,  will,  not  only  be  the  means  of  ensuring  his 
good  behavior,  but  serve  to  render  the  office  more  respectable.  I 
shall  have  no  objection  to  elect  him  for  a  longer  term,  if  septennial 
appointments  are  supposed  too  frequent  or  unnecessary.  It  is 
true,  that  in  our  Government,  he  cannot  be  cloathed  with  those 
executive  authorities,  the  Chief  Magistrate  of  a  Government  often 
possesses;  because  they  are  vested  in  the  Legislature,  and  cannot 
be  used  or  delegated  by  them  in  any,  but  the  specified  mode.  Under 
the  New  System,  it  will  be  found  essentially  necessary  to  have  the 
Executive  distinct.  His  duties,  will  be,  to  attend  to  the  executicfn 
of  the  acts  of  Congress,  by  the  several  States;  to  correspond  with 
them  upon  the  subject;  to  prepare  and  digest,  in  concert  with  the 
great  departments,  such  business  as  will  come  before  the  Legisla- 
tive, at  their  stated  sessions:  to  acquire,  from  time  to  time,  as  perfect 
a  knowledge  of  the  situation  of  the  Union,  as  he  possibly  can,  and 
to  be  charged  with  all  the  business  of  the  Home  Department.  He 
will  be  empowered,  whenever  he  conceives  it  necessary,  to  inspect 
the  Departments  of  Foreign  Affairs,  of  War,  of  Treasury,  and  when 
instituted,  of  the  Admiralty.  This  inspection  into  the  conduct  of 
the  Departments  will  operate  as  a  check  upon  those  Officers,  keep 
them  attentive  to  their  duty,  and  may  be  the  means  in  time  not 
only  of  preventing  and  correcting  errors,  but  of  detecting  and  pun- 
ishing mal-practices.  He  will  have  a  right  to  consider  the  prin- 
cipals of  these  Departments  as  his  Council,  and  to  acquire  their 
advice  and  assistance,  whenever  the  duties  of  his  Office  shall  render 
it  necessary.  By  this  means  our  Government  will  possess  what 
it  has  always  wanted,  but  never  yet  had,  a  Cabinet  Council.  An 
institution  essential  in  all  Governments,  whose  situation  or  connec- 
tions oblige  them  to  have  an  intercourse  with  other  powers.  He 
will  be  the  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Land  and  Naval  Forces  of 
the  United  States ;  have  a  right  to  convene  and  prorogue  the  Legis- 
lature upon  special  occasions,  when  they  cannot  agree,  as  to  the 
time  of  their  adjournment;  and  appoint  all  Officers,  except  Judges 
and  Foreign  Ministers.  Independent  of  the  policy  of  having  a 
distinct  Executive,  it  will  be  found  that  one,  on  these  principles 
will  not  create  a  new  expense:  The  establishment  of  the  President 
of  Congres's  Household  will  nearly  be  sufficient;  and  the  necessity 
which  exists  at  present,  and  which  must  every  day  increase,  of 
appointing  a  Secretary  for  the  Home  Department,  will  then  cease. 
He  will  remain  always  removable  by  impeachment,  and  it  will  rest 
with  the  Legislature,  to  fix  his  salary  upon  permanent  principles, 


112  RECORDS   OF  THE   FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

The  mode  of  doing  business  in  the  Federal  Legislature,  when 
thus  newly  organized,  will  be  the  Parliamentary  one,  adopted  by 
the  State  Legislatures.  In  a  Council  so  important,  as  I  trust  the 
Federal  Legislature  will  be,  too  much  attention  cannot  be  paid  to 
their  proceedings.  It  is  astonishing,  that,  in  a  body,  constituted  as 
the  present  Congress,  so  few  inaccuracies  are  to  be  seen  in  their 
proceedings;  for  certainly,  no  Assembly  can  be  so  much  exposed 
to  them,  as  that,  wherein  a  resolution  may  be  introduced,  and  passed 
at  once.  It  is  a  precipitancy  which  few  situations  can  justify,  in 
deliberative  bodies,  and  which  the  proposed  alteration  will  effectually 
prevent. 

The  4th  article,  respecting  the  extending  the  rights  of  the  Citi* 
zens  of  each  State,  throughout  the  United  States;  the  delivery  of 
fugitives  from  justice,  upon  demand,  and  the  giving  full  faith  and 
credit  to  the  records  and  proceedings  of  each,  is  formed  exactly  upon 
the  principles  of  the  4th  article  of  the  present  Confederation,  except 
with  this  difference,  that  the  demand  of  the  Executive  of  a  State, 
for  any  fugitive,  criminal  offender,  shall  be  complied  with.  It  is 
now  confined  to  treason,  felony,  or  other  high  misdemeanor;  but, 
as  there  is  no  good  reason  for  confining  it  to  those  crimes,  no  dis- 
tinction ought  to  exist,  and  a  State  should  always  be  at  liberty  to 
demand  a  fugitive  from  its  justice,  let  his  crime  be  what  it  may. 

The  5th  article,  declaring,  that  individual  States,  shall  not 
exercise  certain  powers,  is  also  founded  on  the  same  principles  as  the 
6th  of  the  Confederation. 

The  next,  is  an  important  alteration  of  the  Federal  System,  and 
is  intended  to  give  the  United  States  in  Congress,  not  only  a  revision 
of  the  Legislative  acts  of  each  State,  but  a  negative  upon  all  such 
as  shall  appear  to  them  improper. 

I  apprehend  the  true  intention  of  the  States  in  uniting,  is  to  have 
a  firm  national  Government,  capable  of  effectually  executing  its 
acts,  and  dispensing  its  benefits  and  protection.  In  it  alone  can  be 
vested  those  powers  and  prerogatives  which  more  particularly  dis- 
tinguish a  sovereign  State.  The  members  which  compose  the  su- 
perintending Government  are  to  be  considered  merely  as  parts  of 
a  great  whole,  and  only  suffered  to  retain  the  powers  necessary  to 
the  administration  of  their  State  Systems.  The  idea  which  has 
been  so  long  and  falsely  entertained  of  each  being  a  sovereign  State, 
must  be  given  up;  for  it  is  absurd  to  suppose  there  can  be  more  than 
one  sovereignty  within  a  Government.  The  States  should  retain 
nothing  more  than  that  mere  local  legislation,  which,  as  districts  of 
a  general  Government,  they  can  exercise  more  to  the  benefit  of  their 
particular  inhabitants,  than  if  it  was  vested  in  the  Supreme  Council; 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXIX  II3 

but  In  every  foreign  concem,  as  well  as  those  internal  regulations, 
which  respecting  the  whole  ought  to  be  uniform  and  national,  the 
States  must  not  be  suffered  to  interfere.  No  act  of  the  Federal 
Government  in  pursuance  of  its  constitutional  powers  ought  by  any 
means  to  be  within  the  control  of  the  State  Legislatures;  if  it  is, 
experience .  warrants  me  in  asserting,  they  will  assuredly  interfere 
and  defeat  its  operation.  That  these  acts  ought  not  therefore  to 
be  within  their  power  must  be  readily  admitted;  and  if  so,  what 
other  remedy  can  be  devised  than  the  one  I  have  mentioned?  As 
to  specifying  that  only  their  acts  upon  particular  points  should  be 
subject  to  revision,  you  will  find  it  difficult  to  draw  the  line  with  so 
much  precision  and  exactness  as  to  prevent  their  discovering  some 
mode  of  counteracting  a  measure  that  is  disagreeable  to  them.  It 
may  be  said,  that  the  power  of  revision  here  asked,  is  so  serious  a 
diminution  of  the  State's  importance,  that  they  will  reluctantly 
grant  it.  —  This,  however  true,  does  not  lessen  its  necessity,  and 
the  more  the  subject  is  examined,  the  more  clearly  will  it  appear. 
It  is  agreed  that  a  reform  of  our  Government  is  indispensable,  and 
that  a  stronger  Federal  System  must  be  adopted;  but  it  will  ever 
be  found,  that  let  your  System  upon  paper  be  as  complete,  and 
guarded  as  you  can  make  it,  yet  still  if  the  State  Assemblies  are 
suffered  to  legislate  without  restriction  or  revision,  your  Govern- 
ment will  remain  weak,  disjointed,  and  inefilicient.  Review  the 
ordinances  and  resolutions  of  Congress  for  the  last  five  or  six  years, 
such  I  mean  as  they  had  a  constitutional  right  to  adopt,  and  you 
will  scarcely  find  one  of  any  consequence  that  has  not,  in  some 
measure,  been  violated  or  neglected.  Examine  more  particularly 
your  treaties  with  foreign  powers;  those  solemn  national  compacts, 
whose  stipulations  each  member  of  the  Union  was  bound  to  comply 
with.  Is  there  a  treaty  which  some  of  the  States  have  not  infringed  ? 
Can  any  other  conduct  be  expected  from  so  many  different  Legis- 
latures being  suffered  to  deliberate  upon  national  measures?  Cer- 
tainly not.  Their  regulations  must  ever  interfere  with  each  other, 
and  perpetually  disgrace  and  distract  the  Federal  Councils.  I  must 
confess,  I  view  the  power  of  revision  and  of  a  negative  as  the  corner 
stone  of  any  reform  we  can  attempt,  and  that  its  exercise  by  Congress 
will  be  as  safe  as  it  is  useful.  In  a  Government  constituted  as  this 
is,  there  can  be  no  abuse  of  it.  —  The  proceedings  of  the  States  which 
merely  respect  their  local  concerns,  will  always  be  passed  as  matters 
of  form,  and  objections  only  arise  where  they  shall  endeavor  to 
contravene  the  Federal  Authority.  Under  the  British  Government, 
notwithstanding  we  early  and  warmly  resisted  their  other  attacks, 
no  objection  was  ever  made  to  the  negative  of  the  King.    As  a 


114      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

part  of  his  Government  it  was  considered  proper.  Are  we  now  less 
a  part  of  the  Federal  Government  than  we  were  then  of  the  British? 
Shall  we  place  less  confidence  in  men  appointed  by  ourselves,  and 
subject  to  our  recall,  than  we  did  in  their  executive?  I  hope  not. 
Whatever  views  we  may  have  of  the  importance  or  retained  sover- 
eignty of  the  States,  be  assured  they  are  visionary  and  .unfounded, 
and  that  their  true  interests  consist  in  concentring  as  much  as  pos- 
sible, the  force  and  resources  of  the  Union  in  one  superintending 
Government,  where  alone  they  can  be  exercised  with  eflfect.  In 
granting  to  the  Federal  Government  certain  exclusive  national 
powers,  you  invest  all  their  incidental  rights.  The  term  exclusive 
involves  every  right  or  authority  necessary  to  their  execution.  This 
revision  and  negative  of  the  laws  is  nothing  more  than  giving  a 
farther  security  to  these  rights.  It  is  only  authorizing  Congress  to 
protect  the  powers  you  delegate,  and  prevent  any  interference  or 
opposition  on  the  part  of  the  States.  It  is  not  intended  to  deprive 
them  of  the  power  of  making  such  laws  as  shall  be  confined  to  the 
proper  objects  of  State  legislation,  but  it  is  to  prevent  their  annexing 
to  laws  of  this  kind,  provisions  which  may  in  their  nature  interfere 
with  the  regulations  of  the  Federal  Authority.  It  will  sometimes 
happen  that  a  general  regulation  which  is  beneficial  to  the  Con- 
federacy, may  be  considered  oppressive  or  injurious  by  a  particu- 
lar State.  In  a  mixed  Government,  composed  of  so  many  various 
interests,  it  will  be  impossible  to  frame  general  systems,  operating 
equally  upon  all  its  members.  The  common  benefit  must  be 
the  criterion,  and  each  State  must,  in  its  turn,  be  obliged  to  yield 
some  of  its  advantages.  If  it  was  possible,  compleatly  to  draw  the 
distinguishing  line,  so  as  to  reserve  to  the  States,  the  Legislative 
rights  they  ought  to  retain,  and  prevent  their  exceeding  them,  I 
should  not  object,  but  it  will  be  found  exceedingly  difficult;  for  as 
I  have  already  observed,  leave  them  only  a  right  to  pass  an  act, 
without  revision  or  controul,  and  they  will  certainly  abuse  it.  The 
only  mode  that  I  can  think  of,  for  qualifying  it,  is  to  vest  a  power 
somewhere,  in  each  State,  capable  of  giving  their  acts  a  limited 
operation,  until  the  sense  of  Congress  can  be  known.  To  those 
who  have  not  sufficiently  examined  the  nature  of  our  Federal  Sys- 
tem, and  the  causes  of  its  present  weakness  and  disorders,  this  curb 
upon  the  State  Legislatures  may  perhaps  appear  an  improper  at- 
tempt to  acquire  a  dangerous  and  unnecessary  power.  I  am  afraid 
the  greater  part  of  our  Citizens  are  of  this  class,  and  that  there  are 
too  few  among  them,  either  acquainted  with  the  nature  of  their 
own  Republic,  or  with  those  of  the  same  tendency,  which  have 
preceded  it.    Though  our  present  disorders  must  be  attributed  in 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXIX  II5 

the  first  instance,  to  the  weakness  and  inefiicacy  of  our  Government, 
it  must  still  be  confessed,  they  have  been  precipitated  by  the  refrac- 
tory and  inattentive  conduct  of  the  States;  most  of  which,  have 
neglected  altogether,  the  performance  of  their  Federal  Duties,  and 
whenever  their  State-policy,  or  interests  prompted,  used  their  re- 
tained Sovereignty,  to  the  injury  and  disgrace  of  the  Federal  Head. 
Nor  can  any  other  conduct  be  expected,  while  they  are  suffered  to 
consider  themselves  as  distinct  Sovereignties,  or  in  any  other  light, 
than  as  parts  of  a  common  Government.  The  United  States,  can 
have  no  danger  so  much  to  dread,  as  that  of  disunion;  nor  has  the 
Federal  Government,  when  properly  formed,  anything  to  fear,  but 
from  the  licentiousness  of  its  members.  We  have  no  hereditary 
monarchy  or  nobles,  with  all  their  train  of  influence  or  corruption, 
to  contend  with;  nor  is  it  possible  to  form  a  Federal  Aristocracy. 
Parties  may,  for  a  time  prevail  in  the  States,  but  the  establishment 
of  an  aristocratic  influence  in  the  Councils  of  the  Union,  is  remote 
and  doubtful.  It  is  the  anarchy,  if  we  may  use  the  term,  or  rather 
worse  than  anarchy  of  a  pure  democracy,  which  I  fear.  Where 
the  laws  lose  their  respect,  and  the  Magistrates  their  authority; 
where  no  permanent  security  is  given  to  the  property  and  privileges 
of  the  Citizens;  and  no  measures  pursued,  but  such  as  suit  the 
temporary  interest  and  convenience  of  the  prevailing  parties,  I 
cannot  figure  to  myself  a  Government  more  truly  degrading;  and 
yet  such  has  been  the  fate  of  all  the  antient,  and  probably  will 
be,  of  all  the  modem  Republics.  The  progress  has  been  regular, 
from  order  to  licentiousness;  from  licentiousness  to  anarchy,  and 
from  thence  to  despotism.  If  we  review  the  ancient  Confederacies 
of  Greece,  we  shall  find  that  each  of  them  in  their  turn,  became  a 
prey  to  the  turbulence  of  their  members;  who,  refusing  to  obey  the 
Federal  Head,  and  upon  all  occasions  insulting,  and  opposing  its 
authority,  afforded  an  opportunity  to  foreign  powers,  to  interfere 
and  subvert  them.  There  is  not  an  example  in  history,  of  a  Con- 
federacy's being  enslaved  or  ruined  by  the  invasions  of  the  supreme 
authority,  nor  is  it  scarcely  possible,  for  depending  for  support  and 
maintenance  upon  the  members,  it  will  always  be  in  their  power  to 
check  and  prevent  injuring  them.  The  Helvetic  and  Belgic  Con- 
federacies, which,  if  we  except  the  Gryson  league,  are  the  only 
Governments  that  can  be  called  Republics  in  Europe,  have  the  same 
vices  with  the  ancients.  The  too  great  and  dangerous  influence  of 
the  parts  —  an  influence,  that  will  sooner  or  later  subject  them  to 
the  same  fate.  In  short,  from  their  example,  and  from  our  own 
experience,  there  can  be  no  truth  more  evident  than  this,  that,  unless 
our  Government  is  consolidated,  as  far  as  is  practicable,  by  retrench- 


Il6     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

ing  the  State  authorities,  and  concentering  as  much  force  and  vigor 
in  the  Union,  as  are  adequate  to  its  exigencies,  we  shall  soon  be  a 
divided,  and  consequently  an  unhappy  people.  I  shall  ever  con- 
sider the  revision  and  negative  of  the  State  laws,  as  one  great  and 
leading  step  to  this  reform,  and  have  therefore  conceived  it  proper, 
to  bring  it  into  view. 

The  next  article,  proposes  to  invest  a  number  of  exclusive  rights, 
delegated  by  the  present  Confederation;  with  this  alteration,  that 
it  is  intended  to  give  the  unqualified  power  of  raising  troops,  either 
in  time  of  peace  or  war,  in  any  manner  the  Union  may  direct.  It 
does  not  confine  them  to  raise  troops  by  quotas,  on  particular  States, 
or  to  give  them  the  right  of  appointing  Regimental  Ofificers,  but 
enables  Congress  to  raise  troops  as  they  shall  think  proper,  and  to 
appoint  all  the  officers.  It  also  contains  a  provision  for  empower- 
ing Congress  to  levy  taxes  upon  the  States,  agreeable  to  the  rule 
now  in  use,  an  enumeration  of  the  white  inhabitants,  and  three- 
fifths  of  other  descriptions. 

The  7th  article  invests  the  United  States,  with  the  complete 
power  of  regulating  the  trade  of  the  Union,  and  levying  such  imposts 
and  duties  upon  the  same,  for  the  use  of  the  United  States,  as  shall, 
in  the  opinion  of  Congress,  be  necessary  and  expedient.  So  much 
has  been  said  upon  the  subjects  of  regulating  trade,  and  levying  an 
impost,  and  the  States  have  so  generally  adopted  them,  that  I  think 
it  unnecessary  to  remark  upon  this  article.  The  intention,  is  to 
invest  the  United  States  with  the  power  of  rendering  our  maritime 
regulations  uniform  and  efficient,  and  to  enable  them  to  raise  a 
revenue,  for  Federal  purposes,  uncontrolable  by  the  States.  I 
thought  it  improper  to  fix  the  per  centage  of  the  impost,  because  it 
is  to  be  presumed  their  prudence  will  never  suffer  them  to  impose 
such  duties,  as  a  fair  trade  will  not  bear,  or  such  as  may  promote 
smuggling.  But  as  far  as  our  commerce,  will  bear,  or  is  capable  of 
yielding  a  revenue,  without  depressing  it,  I  am  of  opinion,  they 
should  have  a  right  to  direct.  The  surrendering  to  the  Federal 
Government,  the  complete  management  of  our  commerce,  and  of 
the  revenues  arising  from  it,  will  serve  to  remove  that  annual  de- 
pendence on  the  States,  which  has  already  so  much  deceived,  and 
will,  should  no  more  effectual  means  be  devised,  in  the  end,  fatally 
disappoint  us.  This  article,  will,  I  think,  be  generally  agreed  to 
by  the  States.  The  measure  of  regulating  trade,  is  nearly  assented 
to  by  all,  and  the  only  objections  to  the  impost,  being  from  New 
York,  and  entirely  of  a  constitutional  nature,  must  be  removed  by 
the  powers  being  incorporated  with,  and  becoming  a  part  of  the  Fed- 
eral System. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXIX  II7 

The  8th  article  only  varies  so  far  from  the  present,  as  in  the  article 
of  the  Post  Office,  to  give  the  Federal  Government  a  power,  not 
only  to  exact  as  much  postage,  as  will  bear  the  expense  of  the  Office, 
but  also,  for  the  purpose  of  raising  a  revenue.  Congress  had  this 
in  contemplation,  some  time  since,  and  there  can  be  no  objection, 
as  it  is  presumed,  in  the  course  of  a  few  years,  the  Post  Office, 
will  be  capable  of  yielding  a  considerable  sum  to  the  Public  Treasury. 

The  9th  article  respecting  the  appointment  of  Federal  Courts, 
for  deciding  territorial  controversies  between  different  States,  is  the 
same  with  that  in  the  Confederation;  but  this  may  with  propriety 
be  left  to  the  Supreme  Judicial. 

The  loth  article  gives  Congress  a  right  to  institute  all  such  offices 
as  are  necessary  for  managing  the  concerns  of  the  Union;  of  erecting 
a  Federal  Judicial  Court,  for  the  purposes  therein  specified;  and  of 
appointing  Courts  of  Admiralty  for  the  trial  of  maritime  causes 
in  the  States  respectively.  The  institution  of  a  Federal  Judicial 
upon  the  principles  mentioned  in  this  article,  has  been  long  wanting. 
At  present  there  is  no  Tribunal  in  the  Union  capable  of  taking  cog- 
nizance of  their  officers  who  shall  misbehave  in  any  of  their  depart- 
ments, or  in  their  ministerial  capacities  out  of  the  limits  of  the  United 
States;  for  this,  as  well  as  the  trial  of  questions  arising  on  the  law 
of  nations,  the  construction  of  treaties,  or  any  of  the  regulations  of 
Congress  in  pursuance  of  their  powers,  or  wherein  they  may  be  a  party, 
there  ought  certainly  to  be  a  Judicial,  acting  under  the  authority 
of  the  Confederacy;  for  securing  whose  independence  and  integrity 
some  adequate  provision  must  be  made,  not  subject  to  the  controul 
of  the  Legislature.  As  the  power  of  deciding  finally  in  cases  of 
Appeal  and  all  Maritime  Regulations  are  to  be  vested  in  the  United 
States,  the  Courts  of  Admiralty  in  the  several  States,  which  are  to 
be  governed  altogether  by  their  Regulations,  and  the  Civil  Law, 
ought  also  to  be  appointed  by  them;  it  will  serve  as  well  to  secure 
the  uprightness  of  the  Judges,  as  to  preserve  an  uniformity  of  pro- 
ceeding in  Maritime  Cases,  throughout  the  Union. 

The  exclusive  right  of  coining  Money  —  regulating  its  alloy, 
and  determining  in  what  species  of  money  the  common  Treasury 
shall  be  supplied,  is  essential  to  assuring  the  Federal  Funds.  If 
you  allow  the  States  to  coin  Money,  or  emit  Bills  of  Credit,  they 
will  force  you  to  take  them  in  payment  for  Federal  Taxes  and  Duties, 
for  the  certain  consequence  of  either  introducing  base  Coin,  or 
depreciated  Paper,  is  the  banishing  Specie  out  of  circulation;  and 
though  Congress  may  determine,  that  nothing  but  Specie  shall  be 
received  in  payment  of  Federal  Taxes  or  Duties,  yet,  while  the 
States  retain  the  rights  they  at  present  possess,  they  will  always 


Il8      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

have  it  in  their  power,  if  not  totally  to  defeat,  yet  very  much  to  retard 
and  confuse  the  collection  of  Federal  Revenues.  The  payments  of 
the  respective  States  into  the  Treasury,  either  in  Taxes  or  Imposts, 
ought  to  be  regular  and  uniform  in  proportion  to  their  abilities;  — 
no  State  should  be  allowed  to  contribute  in  a  different  manner  from 
the  others,  but  all  alike  in  actual  Money.  There  can  be  no  other 
mode  of  ascertaining  this,  than  to  give  to  the  United  States  the 
exclusive  right  of  coining,  and  determining  in  what  manner  the  Fed- 
eral Taxes  shall  be  paid. 

In  all  those  important  questions  where  the  present  Confedera- 
tion has  made  the  assent  of  Nine  States  necessary,  I  have  made  the 
assent^of  Two-Thirds  of  both  Houses,  when  assembled  in  Congress, 
and  added  to  the  number,  the  Regulation  of  Trade,  and  Acts  for 
levying  an  Impost  and  raising  a  Revenue:  —  These  restraints  have 
ever  appeared  to  me  proper;  and  in  determining  questions  whereon 
the  political  happiness  and  perhaps  existence  of  the  Union  may  de- 
pend, I  think  it  unwise  ever  to  leave  the  decision  to  a  mere  majority; 
no  Acts  of  this  kind  should  pass,  unless  Two-Thirds  of  both  Houses 
are  of  opinion  they  are  beneficial,  it  may  then  be  presumed  the 
measure  is  right;  but  when  merely  a  majority  determines,  it  will  be 
doubtful,  and  in  questions  of  this  magnitude  where  their  propriety 
is  doubtful,  it  will  in  general  be  safest  not  to  adopt  them. 

The  exclusive  right  of  establishing  regulations  for  the  Govern- 
ment of  the  Militia  of  the  United  States,  ought  certainly  to  be 
ve8[t]ed  in  the  Federal  Councils.  As  standing  Armies  are  contrary 
to  the  Constitutions  of  most  of  the  States,  and  the  nature  of  our 
Government,  the  only  immediate  aid  and  support  that  we  can  look 
up  to,  in  case  of  necessity,  is  the  Militia.  As  the  several  States 
form  one  Government,  united  for  their  common  benefit  and  security, 
they  are  to  be  considered  as  a  Nation  —  their  Militia  therefore, 
should  be  as  far  as  possible  national  —  an  uniformity  in  Discipline 
and  Regulations  should  pervade  the  whole,  otherwise,  when  the 
Militia  of  several  States  are  required  to  act  together,  it  will  be  diffi- 
cult to  combine  their  operations  from  the  confusion  a  difference 
of  Discipline  and  Military  Habits  will  produce.  Independent  of 
our  being  obliged  to  rely  on  the  Militia  as  a  security  against  Foreign 
Invasions  or  Domestic  Convulsions,  they  are  in  fact  the  only  ade- 
quate force  the  Union  possess,  if  any  should  be  requisite  to  coerce 
a  refractory  or  negligent  Member,  and  to  carry  the  Ordinances 
and  Decrees  of  Congress  into  execution.  This,  as  well  as  the  cases 
I  have  alluded  to,  will  sometimes  make  it  proper  to  order  the  Militia 
of  one  State  into  another.  At  present  the  United  States  possess  no 
power  of  directing  the  Militia,  and  must  depend  upon  the  States 


APPENDIX  A,   CXXIX  II9 

to  carry  their  Recommendations  upon  this  subject  into  execution 
—  while  this  dependence  exists,  like  all  their  other  reliances  upon 
the  States  for  measures  they  are  not  obliged  to  adopt,  the  Federal 
views  and  designs  must  ever  be  delayed  and  disappointed.  To 
place  therefore  a  necessary  and  Constitutional  power  of  defence  and 
coercion  in  the  hands  of  the  Federal  authority,  and  to  render  our 
Militia  uniform  and  national,  I  am  decidedly  in  opinion  they  should 
have  the  exclusive  right  of  establishing  regulations  for  their  Govern- 
ment and  Discipline,  which  the  States  should  be  bound  to  comply 
with,  as  well  as  with  their  Requisitions  for  any  number  of  Militia, 
whose  march  into  another  State,  the  Public  safety  or  benefit  should 
require. 

In  every  Confederacy  of  States,  formed  for  their  general  benefit 
and  security,  there  ought  to  be  a  power  to  oblige  the  parties  to  fur- 
nish their  respective  quotas  without  the  possibility  of  neglect  or 
evasion;  —  there  is  no  such  clause  in  the  present  Confederation, 
and  it  is  therefore  without  this  indispensable  security.  Experience 
justifies  me  in  asserting  that  we  may  detail  as  minutely  as  we  can, 
the  duties  of  the  States,  but  unless  they  are  assured  that  these  duties 
will  be  required  and  enforced,  the  details  will  be  regarded  as  nuga- 
tory. No  Government  has  more  severely  felt  the  want  of  a  coercive 
Power  than  the  United  States;  for  want  of  it  the  principles  of  the 
Confederation  have  been  neglected  with  impunity  in  the  hour  of 
the  most  pressing  necessity,  and  at  the  imminent  hazard  of  its  exis- 
tence: Nor  are  we  to  expect  they  will  be  more  attentive  in  future. 
Unless  there  is  a  compelling  principle  in  the  Confederacy,  there  must 
be  an  injustice  in  its  tendency;  It  will  expose  an  unequal  proportion 
of  the  strength  and  resources  of  some  of  the  States,  to  the  hazard 
of  war  in  defence  of  the  rest  —  the  first  principles  of  Justice  direct 
that  this  danger  should  be  provided  against  —  many  of  the  States 
have  certainly  shewn  a  disposition  to  evade  a  performance  of  their 
Federal  Duties,  and  throw  the  burden  of  Government  upon  their 
neighbors.  It  is  against  this  shameful  evasion  in  the  delinquent, 
this  forced  assumption  in  the  more  attentive,  I  wish  to  provide,  and 
they  ought  to  be  guarded  against  by  every  means  in  our  power. 
Unless  this  power  of  coercion  is  infused,  and  exercised  when  neces- 
sary, the  States  will  most  assuredly  neglect  their  duties.  The  con- 
sequence is  either  a  dissolution  of  the  Union,  or  an  unreasonable 
sacrifice  by  those  who  are  disposed  to  support  and  maintain  it. 

The  article  impowering  the  United  States  to  admit  new  States 
into  the  Confederacy  is  become  indispensable,  from  the  separation 
of  certain  districts  from  the  original  States,  and  the  increasing  popula- 
tion and  consequence  of  the  Western  Territory.     I  have  also  added 


I20      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

an  article  authorizing  the  United  States,  upon  petition  from  the 
majority  of  the  citizens  of  any  State,  or  Convention  authorized  for 
that  purpose,  and  of  the  Legislature  of  the  State  to  which  they  wish 
to  be  annexed,  or  of  the  States  among  which  they  are  willing  to  be 
divided,  to  consent  to  such  junction  or  division,  on  the  terms  men- 
tioned in  the  article.  —  The  inequality  of  the  Federal  Members, 
and  the  number  of  small  States,  is  one  of  the  greatest  defects  of  our 
Union.  It  is  to  be  hoped  this  inconvenience  will,  in  time,  correct 
itself;  and,  that  the  smaller  States,  being  fatigued  with  the  expence 
of  their  State  Systems,  and  mortified  at  their  want  of  importance, 
will  be  inclined  to  participate  in  the  benefits  of  the  larger,  by  being 
annexed  to  and  becoming  a  part  of  their  Governments.  I  am  in- 
formed sentiments  of  this  kind  already  prevail;  and,  in  order  to 
encourage  propositions  so  generally  beneficial,  a  power  should  be 
vested  in  the  Union,  to  accede  to  them  whenever  they  are  made. 

The  Federal  Government  should  also  possess  the  exclusive 
right  of  declaring  on  what  terms  the  privileges  of  citizenship  and 
naturalization  should  be  extended  to  foreigners.  At  present  the 
citizens  of  one  State,  are  entitled  to  the  privileges  of  citizens  in  every 
State.  Hence  it  follows,  that  a  foreigner,  as  soon  as  he  is  admitted 
to  the  rights  of  citizenship  in  one,  becomes  entitled  to  them  in  all. 
The  States  differed  widely  in  their  regulations  on  this  subject.  I 
have  known  it  already  productive  of  inconveniences,  and  think  they 
must  increase.  The  younger  States  will  hold  out  every  temptation 
to  foreigners,  by  making  the  admission  to  office  less  difficult  in  their 
Governments,  than  the  older.  —  I  believe  in  some  States,  the  resi- 
dence which  will  enable  a  foreigner  to  hold  any  office,  will  not  in 
others  intitle  him  to  a  vote.  To  render  this  power  generally  useful 
it  must  be  placed  in  the  Union,  where  alone  it  can  be  equally  exer- 
cised. 

The  1 6th  article  proposes  to  declare,  that  if  it  should  hereafter 
appear  necessary  to  the  United  States  to  recommend  the  Grant  of 
any  additional  Powers,  that  the  assent  of  a  given  number  of  the  States 
shall  be  sufficient  to  invest  them  and  bind  the  Union  as  fully  as  if 
they  had  been  confirmed  by  the  Legislatures  of  all  the  States.  The 
principles  of  this,  and  the  article  which  provides  for  the  future  alter- 
ation of  the  Constitution  by  its  being  first  agreed  to  in  Congress, 
and  ratified  by  a  certain  proportion  of  the  Legislatures,  are  precisely 
the  same;  they  both  go  to  destroy  that  unanimity  which  upon  these 
occasions  the  present  System  has  unfortunately  made  necessary  — 
the  propriety  of  this  alteration  has  been  so  frequently  suggested, 
that  I  shall  only  observe  that  it  is  to  this  unanimous  consent,  the 
depressed  situation  of  the  Union  is  undoubtedly  owing.     Had  the 


\ 

( 


APP  ENDIX  A,    CXXIX  121 

measures  recommended  ^oy  Congress  and  assented  to,  some  of  them 
by  eleven  and  othersi  'by  twelve  of  the  States,  been  carried  into  exe- 
cution, how  different  would  have  been  the  complexion  of  Public 
Affairs?  To  this  weak,  this  absurd  part  of  the  Government,  may  all 
our  distresses  be  fairly  attributed. 

If  the  States  were  equal  in  size  and  importance,  a  majority  of 
the  Legislatures  might  be  sufficient  for  the  grant  of  any  new  Powers; 
but  disproportioned  as  they  are  and  must  continue  for  a  time; 
a  larger  number  may  now  in  prudence  be  required  —  but  I  trust 
no  Government  will  ever  again  be  adopted  in  this  Country,  whose 
Alteration  cannot  be  effected  but  by  the  assent  of  all  its  Members. 
The  hazardous  situation  the  United  Netherlands  are  frequently 
placed  in  on  this  account,  as  well  as  our  own  mortifying  experience, 
are  sufficient  to  warn  us  from  a  danger  which  has  already  nearly 
proved  fatal.  It  is  difficult  to  form  a  Government  so  perfect  as  to 
render  alterations  unnecessary;  we  must  expect  and  provide  for 
them:  —  But  difficult  as  the  forming  a  perfect  Government  would 
be,  it  is  scarcely  more  so,  than  to  induce  Thirteen  separate  Legis- 
latures, to  think  and  act  alike  upon  one  subject  —  the  alterations  that 
nine  think  necessary,  ought  not  to  be  impeded  by  four  —  a  minority 
so  inconsiderable  should  be  obliged  to  yield.  Upon  this  principle 
the  present  articles  are  formed,  and  are  in  my  judgment  so  obviously 
proper,  that  I  think  it  unnecessary  to  remark  farther  upon  them. 

There  is  also  in  the  Articles,  a  provision  respecting  the  attendance 
of  the  Members  of  both  Houses;  it  is  proposed  that  they  shall  be 
the  judges  of  their  own  Rules  and  Proceedings,  nominate  their  own 
Officers,  and  be  obliged,  after  accepting  their  appointments,  to  attend 
the  stated  Meetings  of  the  Legislature;  the  penalties  under  which 
their  attendance  is  required,  are  such  as  to  insure  it,  as  we  are  to 
suppose  no  man  would  willingly  expose  himself  to  the  ignominy  of 
a  disqualification:  Some  effectual  mode  must  be  adopted  to  compel 
an  attendance,  as  the  proceedings  of  the  Government  must  depend 
upon  its  formation  —  the  inconveniencies  arising  from  the  want 
of  a  sufficient  representation  have  been  frequently  and  severely  felt 
in  Congress.  The  most  important  questions  have  on  this  account 
been  delayed,  and  I  believe  I  may  venture  to  assert,  that  for  six 
months  in  the  year  they  have  not  lately  had  such  a  representation 
as  will  enable  them  to  proceed  on  business  of  consequence.  Punc- 
tuality is  essential  in  a  Government  so  extensive;  and  where  a  part 
of  the  Members  come  from  considerable  distances,  and  of  course 
have  no  immediate  calls  to  divert  their  attention  from  the  Public 
business,  those  who  are  in  the  vicinity  should  not  be  suffered  to 
disappoint  them;    if  the  power  of  compelling  their  attendance  is 


122      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

necessary,  it  must  be  incorporated  as  a  part  of  the  Constitution 
which  the  United  States  will  be  bound  to  execute;  at  present  it  is 
contended  that  no  such  authority  exists;  that  the  Members  of  Con- 
gress are  only  responsible  to  the  State  they  represent,  and  to  this 
may  be  attributed  that  shameful  remissness  in  forming  the  Federal 
Council,  which  has  been  so  derogating  and  injurious  to  the  Union. 
The  Article  I  have  inserted  is  intended  to  produce  a  reform,  and  I 
do  not  at  present  discover  a  mode  in  which  the  attendance  of  the 
Members  can  be  more  effectually  enforced. 

The  next  Article  ^  provides  for  the  privilege  of  the  Writ  of 
Habeas  Corpus  —  the  Trial  by  Jury  in  all  cases.  Criminal  as  well 
as  Civil  —  the  Freedom  of  the  Press,  and  the  prevention  of  Religious 
Tests,  as  qualifications  to  Offices  of  Trust  or  Emolument:  The 
three  first  essential  in  Free  Governments;  the  last,  a  provision  the 
world  will  expect  from  you,  in  the  establishment  of  a  System  founded 
on  Republican  Principles,  and  in  an  age  so  liberal  and  enlightened 
as  the  present. 

There  is  also  an  authority  to  the  National  Legislature,  perman- 
ently to  fix  the  seat  of  the  general  Government,  to  secure  to  Authors 
the  exclusive  right  to  their  Performances  and  Discoveries,  and  to 
establish  a  Federal  University. 

There  are  other  Articles,  but  of  subordinate  consideration.  In 
opening  the  subject,  the  limits  of  my  present  observations  would 
only  permit  me  to  touch  the  outlines;  in  these  I  have  endeavored 
to  unite  and  apply  as  far  as  the  nature  of  our  Union  would  permit, 
the  excellencies  of  such  of  the  State  Constitutions  as  have  been 
most  approved.  The  first  object  with  the  Convention  must  be  to 
determine  on  principles  —  the  most  leading  of  these  are,  the  just 
proportion  of  representation,  and  the  arrangement  and  distribution 
of  the  Powers  of  Government.  In  order  to  bring  a  system  founded 
on  these  principles,  to  the  view  of  the  Convention,  I  have  sketched 
the  one  which  has  just  been  read  —  I  now  submit  it  with  deference 
to  their  Consideration,  and  wish,  if  it  does  not  appear  altogether 
objectionable,  that  it  may  be  referred  to  the  examination  of  a  Com- 
mittee. 

There  have  been  frequent  but  unsuccessful  attempts  by  Congress 
to  obtain  from  the  States  the  grant  of  additional  powers,  and  such 
is  the  dangerous  situation  in  which  their  negligence  and  inattention 
have  placed  the  Federal  concerns,  that  nothing  less  than  a  Conven- 
tion of  the  States  could  probably  prevent  a  dissolution  of  the  Union. 

^  This  paragraph  hardly  seems  in  keeping  with  the  rest  of  the  document,  and  it 
may  well  be  a  later  insertion.  These  ideas  were  suggested  by  Pinckney  in  the  Conven- 
tion on  August  20,  see  Records  of  that  date. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXX  1 23 

Whether  we  shall  be  so  fortunate  as  to  concur  in  measures  calcu- 
lated to  remove  these  difficulties,  and  render  our  Government  firm 
and  energetic,  remains  to  be  proved.  A  change  in  our  political 
System  is  inevitable;  the  States  have  wisely  foreseen  this,  and  pro- 
vided a  remedy.  Congress  have  sanctioned  it.  The  consequences 
may  be  serious,  should  the  Convention  dissolve  without  coming 
to  some  determination.  —  I  dread  even  to  think  of  the  event  of  a 
convulsion,  and  how  much  the  ineffectual  assemblage  of  this  body 
may  tend  to  produce  it.  Our  citizens  would  then  suppose  that  no 
reasonable  hope  remained  of  quietly  removing  the  public  embar- 
rassment, or  of  providing  by  a  well-formed  Government,  for  the 
protection  and  happiness  of  the  People.  They  might  possibly 
turn  their  attention  to  effecting  that  by  force,  which  had  been  in 
vain  constitutionally  attempted. 

I  ought  again  to  apologize  for  presuming  to  intrude  my  senti- 
ments upon  a  subject  of  such  difficulty  and  importance.  It  is  one 
that  I  have  for  a  considerable  time  attended  to.  I  am  doubtful 
whether  the  Convention  will  at  first  be  inclined  to  proceed  as  far 
as  I  have  intended;  but  this  I  think  may  be  safely  asserted,  that 
upon  a  clear  and  comprehensive  view  of  the  relative  situation  of 
the  Union,  and  its  Members,  we  shall  be  convinced  of  the  policy 
of  concentering  in  the  Federal  Head,  a  compleate  supremacy  in  the 
affairs  of  Government;  leaving  only  to  the  States,  such  powers  as 
may  be  necessary  for  the  management  of  their  internal  concerns. 


CXXX.   James  Madison  to  George  Washington.^ 

New  York,  Octr.  14.  1787. 
I  add  ...  a  pamphlet  which  Mr.  Pinkney  has  submitted  to 
the  public,^  or  rather  as  he  professes,  to  the  perusal  of  his  friends  ;* 


CXXXI.    Edmund  Randolph  to  the  Speaker  of  the  Virginia 

House  of  Delegates.^ 

Richmond,  Oct.  10.  1787. 
The  constitution  which  I  enclosed  to  the  general  assembly  in 
a  late  official  letter,  appears  without  my  signature.  This  circum- 
stance, although  trivial  in  its  own  nature,  has  been  rendered  rather 
important  to  myself  at  least  by  being  misunderstood  by  some,  and 
misrepresented  by  others.  —  As  I  disdain  to  conceal  the  reasons 


*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  329. 
»  Sec  CXXIX  above 

*  For  Washington's  comment  in  reply,  see  CXXXV  below. 

*  P.  L.  Ford,  PamphUts  on  the  Constitution,  261-276. 


124      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

for  withholding  my  subscription,  I  have  always  been,  still  am,  and 
ever  shall  be,  ready  to  proclaim  them  to  the  world.  To  the  legis- 
lature, therefore,  by  whom  I  was  deputed  to  the  federal  convention, 
I  beg  leave  now  to  address  them;  affecting  no  indifference  to  public 
opinion,  but  resolved  not  to  court  it  by  an  unmanly  sacrifice  of  my 
own  judgment. 

As  this  explanation  will  involve  a  summary,  but  general  review 
of  our  federal  situation,  you  will  pardon  me,  I  trust,  although  I 
should  transgress  the  usual  bounds  of  a  letter. 

Before  my  departure  for  the  convention,  I  believed,  that  the 
confederation  was  not  so  eminently  defective,  as  it  had  been  sup- 
posed. But  after  I  had  entered  into  a  free  communication  with 
those  who  were  best  informed  of  the  condition  and  interest  of  each 
State;  after  I  had  compared  the  intelligence  derived  from  them 
with  the  properties  which  ought  to  characterize  the  government 
of  our  union,  I  became  persuaded,  that  the  confederation  was  desti- 
tute of  every  energy,  which  a  constitution  of  the  United  States  ought 
to  possess.      .  .  . 

I  come,  therefore,  to  the  last,  and  perhaps  only  refuge  in  our 
difficulties,  a  consolidation  of  the  union,  as  far  as  circumstances  will 
permit.  To  fulfil  this  desirable  object,  the  constitution  was  framed 
by  the  federal  convention.  A  quorum  of  eleven  States,  and  the 
only  member  from  a  twelfth  have  subscribed  it;  Mr.  Mason,  of 
Virginia,  Mr.  Gerry,  of  Massachusetts,  and  myself  having  refused 
to  subscribe. 

Why  I  refused,  will,  I  hope,  be  solved  to  the  satisfaction  of  those 
who  know  me,  by  saying,  that  a  sense  of  duty  commanded  me  thus 
to  act.  It  commanded  me,  sir,  for  believe  me,  that  no  event  of  my 
life  ever  occupied  more  of  my  reflection.  To  subscribe,  seemed 
to  offer  no  inconsiderable  gratification,  since  it  would  have  pre- 
sented me  to  the  world  as  a  fellow  laborer  with  the  learned  and 
zealous  statesmen  of  America. 

But  it  was  far  more  interesting  to  my  feelings,  that  I  was  about 
to  differ  from  three  of  my  colleagues,  one  of  whom  is,  to  the  honor 
of  the  country  which  he  has  saved,  embosomed  in  their  affections, 
and  can  receive  no  praise  from  the  highest  lustre  of  language;  the 
other  two  of  whom  have  been  long  enrolled  among  the  wisest  and 
best  lovers  of  the  commonwealth;  and  the  unshaken  and  intimate 
friendship  of  all  of  whom  I  have  ever  prized,  and  still  do  prize,  as 
among  the  happiest  of  all  acquisitions. — I  was  no  stranger  to  the 
reigning  partiality  for  the  members  who  composed  the  convention, 
and  had  not  the  smallest  doubt,  that  from  this  cause,  and  from  the 
ardor  of  a  reform  of  government,  the  first  applauses  at  least  would 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXXI  1 25 

be  loud  and  profuse.  I  suspected,  too,  that  there  was  something 
in  the  human  breast  which  for  a  time  would  be  apt  to  construe  a 
temperateness  in  politics,  into  an  enmity  to  the  union.  Nay,  I 
plainly  foresaw,  that  in  the  dissensions  of  parties,  a  middle  line 
would  probably  be  interpreted  into  a  want  of  enterprise  and  decision. 
—  But  these  considerations,  how  seducing  soever,  were  feeble  oppon- 
ents to  the  suggestions  of  my  conscience.  I  was  sent  to  exercise 
my  judgment,  and  to  exercise  it  was  my  fixed  determination;  being 
instructed  by  even  an  imperfect  acquaintance  with  mankind,  that 
self-approbation  is  the  only  true  reward  which  a  political  career  can 
bestow,  and  that  popularity  would  have  been  but  another  name  for 
perfidy,  if  to  secure  it,  I  had  given  up  the  freedom  of  thinking  for 
myself. 

It  would  have  been  a  peculiar  pleasure  to  me  to  have  ascertained 
before  I  left  Virginia,  the  temper  and  genius  of  my  fellow  citizens, 
considered  relatively  to  a  government,  so  substantially  differing 
from  the  confederation  as  that  which  is  now  submitted.  But  this 
was,  for  many  obvious  reasons,  impossible;  and  I  was  thereby  de- 
prived of  what  I  thought  the  necessary  guides. 

I  saw,  however,  that  the  confederation  was  tottering  from  its 
own  weakness,  and  that  the  sitting  of  a  convention  was  a  signal 
of  its  total  insufficiency.  I  was  therefore  ready  to  assent  to  a  scheme 
of  government,  which  was  proposed,  and  which  went  beyond  the 
limits  of  the  confederation,  believing,  that  without  being  too  exten- 
sive it  would  have  preserved  our  tranquility,  until  that  temper  and 
that  genius  should  be  collected. 

But  when  the  plan  which  is  now  before  the  general  assembly, 
was  on  its  passage  through  the  convention,  I  moved,  that  the  State 
conventions  should  be  at  liberty  to  amend,  and  that  a  second  gen- 
eral convention  should  be  holden,  to  discuss  the  amendments,  which 
should  be  suggested  by  them.  This  motion  was  in  some  measure 
justified  by  the  manner  in  which  the  confederation  was  forwarded 
originally,  by  congress  to  the  State  legislatures,  in  many  of  which 
amendments  were  proposed,  and  those  amendments  were  afterwards 
examined  in  congress.  Such  a  motion  was  doubly  expedient  here, 
as  the  delegation  of  so  much  power  was  sought  for.  But  it  was 
negatived.  I  then  expressed  my  unwillingness  to  sign.  My  rea- 
sons were  the  following: 

I.  It  is  said  in  the  resolutions  which  accompany  the  consti- 
tution, that  it  is  to  be  submitted  to  a  convention  of  delegates  chosen 
in  each  State  by  the  people  thereof,  for  their  assent  and  ratification. 
The  meaning  of  these  terms  is  allowed  universally  to  be,  that  the 
convention  must  either  adopt  the  constitution  in  the  whole,  or  reject 


126     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

it  in  the  whole,  and  is  positively  forbidden  to  amend.  If  therefore, 
I  had  signed,  I  should  have  felt  myself  bound  to  be  silent  as  to 
amendments,  and  to  endeavor  to  support  the  constitution  without 
the  correction  of  a  letter.  With  this  consequence  before  my  eyes, 
and  with  a  determination  to  attempt  an  amendment,  I  was  taught 
by  a  regard  for  consistency  not  to  sign. 

2.  My  opinion  always  was,  and  still  is,  that  every  citizen  of 
America,  let  the  crisis  be  what  it  may,  ought  to  have  a  full  oppor- 
tunity to  propose,  through  his  representatives,  any  amendment 
which  in  his  apprehension,  tends  to  the  public  welfare.  By  signing, 
I  should  have  contradicted  this  sentiment. 

3.  A  constitution  ought  to  have  the  hearts  of  the  people  on  its 
side.  But  if  at  a  future  day  it  should  be  burdensome  after  having 
been  adopted  in  the  whole,  and  they  should  insinuate  that  it  was 
in  some  measure  forced  upon  them,  by  being  confined  to  the  single 
alternative  of  taking  or  rejecting  it  altogether,  under  my  impressions, 
and  with  my  opinions,  I  should  not  be  able  to  justify  myself  had  I 
signed. 

4.  I  was  always  satisfied,  as  I  have  now  experienced,  that  this 
great  subject  would  be  placed  in  new  lights  and  attitudes  by  the 
criticism  of  the  world,  and  that  no  man  can  assure  himself  how  a 
constitution  will  work  for  a  course  of  years,  until  at  least  he  shall 
have  heard  the  observations  of  the  people  at  large.  I  also  fear 
more  from  inaccuracies  in  a  constitution,  than  from  gross  errors  in 
any  other  composition;  because  our  dearest  interests  are  to  be 
regulated  by  it;  and  power,  if  loosely  given,  especially  where  it 
will  be  interpreted  with  great  latitude,  may  bring  sorrow  in  its 
execution.  Had  I  signed  with  these  ideas,  I  should  have  virtually 
shut  my  ears  against  the  information  which  I  ardently  desired. 

5.  I  was  afraid  that  if  the  constitution  was  to  be  submitted  to 
the  people,  to  be  wholly  adopted  or  wholly  rejected  by  them,  they 
would  not  only  reject  it,  but  bid  a  lasting  farewell  to  the  union.  This 
formidable  event  I  wished  to  avert,  by  keeping  myself  free  to  pro- 
pose amendments,  and  thus,  if  possible,  to  remove  the  obstacles  to 
an  effectual  government.  But  it  will  be  asked,  whether  all  these 
arguments,  were  not  be  well  weighed  in  convention.  They  were, 
sir,  with  great  candor.  Nay,  when  I  called  to  mind  the  respecta- 
bility of  those,  with  whom  I  was  associated,  I  almost  lost  confi- 
dence in  these  principles.  On  other  occasions,  I  should  cheerfully 
have  yielded  to  a  majority;  on  this  the  fate  of  thousands  yet  un- 
born, enjoined  me  not  to  yield  until  I  was  convinced. 

Again,  may  I  be  asked,  why  the  mode  pointed  out  in  the  con- 
stitution for  its  amendment,  may  not  be  a  sufiicient  security  against 


APPENDIX  A,   CXXXI  127 

its  imperfections,  without  now  arresting  it  in  its  progress?  My 
answers  are — i.  That  it  is  better  to  amend,  while  we  have  the 
constitution  in  our  power,  while  the  passions  of  designing  men  are 
not  yet  enlisted,  and  while  a  bare  majority  of  the  States  may  amend 
than  to  wait  for  the  uncertain  assent  of  three  fourths  of  the  States. 
2.  That  a  bad  feature  in  government,  becomes  more  and  more  fixed 
every  day.  3.  That  frequent  changes  of  a  constitution,  even  if  prac- 
ticable, ought  not  to  be  wished,  but  avoided  as  much  as  possible. 
And  4.  That  in  the  present  case,  it  may  be  questionable,  whether, 
after  the  particular  advantages  of  its  operation  shall  be  discerned, 
three  fourths  of  the  States  can  be  induced  to  amend.     .  .  . 

I  should  now  conclude  this  letter,  which  is  already  too  long, 
were  it  not  incumbent  on  me,  from  having  contended  for  amendments, 
to  set  forth  the  particulars,  which!  conceive  to  require  correction. 
I  undertake  this  with  reluctance:  because  it  is  remote  from  my  in- 
tentions to  catch  the  prejudices  or  prepossessions  of  any  man  But 
as  I  mean  only  to  manifest  that  I  have  not  been  actuated  by  caprice, 
and  now  to  explain  every  objection  at  full  length  would  be  an  im- 
mense labour,  I  shall  content  myself  with  enumerating  certain 
heads,  in  which  the  constitution  is  most  repugnant  to  my  wishes. 

The  two  first  points  are  the  equality  of  suffrage  in  the  senate, 
and  the  submission  of  commerce  to  a  mere  majority  in  the  legis- 
lature, with  no  other  check  than  the  revision  of  the  president.  I 
conjecture  that  neither  of  these  things  can  be  corrected;  and  par- 
ticularly the  former,  without  which  we  must  have  risen  perhaps 
in  disorder. 

But  I  am  sanguine  in  hoping  that  in  every  other  justly  obnoxious 
cause,  Virginia  will  be  seconded  by  a  majority  of  the  States.  I  hope 
that  she  will  be  seconded,  i.  In  causing  all  ambiguities  of  expres- 
sion to  be  precisely  explained.  2.  In  rendering  the  president  in- 
eligible after  a  given  number  of  years.  3.  In  taking  from  him  the 
power  of  nominating  to  the  judiciary  offices,  or  of  filling  up  vacancies 
which  may  there  happen  during  the  recess  of  the  senate,  by  grant- 
ing commissions  which  shall  expire  at  the  end  of  their  next  sessions. 
4.  In  taking  from  him  the  power  of  pardoning  for  treason  at  least 
before  conviction.  5.  In  drawing  a  line-  between  the  powers  of 
congress  and  individual  States;  and  in  defining  the  former,  so  as  to 
leave  no  clashing  of  jurisdictions  nor  dangerous  disputes;  and  to 
prevent  the  one  from  being  swallowed  up  by  the  other,  under  cover 
of  general  words,  and  implication.  6.  In  abridging  the  power  of 
the  senate  to  make  treaties  supreme  laws  of  the  land.  7.  In  inca- 
pacitating the  congress  to  determine  their  own  salaries.  And  8. 
In  limiting  and  defining  the  judicial  power. 


128      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CXXXII.    George  Washington  to  Doctor  Stuart.* 

Mount  Vernon  October  17th.  1787 
As  the  enclosed  advertiser  contains  a  speech  of  Mr.  Wilson's* 
(as  able,  candid  and  honest  a  member  as  in  Convention)  which  will 
place  the  most  of  —  M.  —  objections  in  their  true  point  of  light,  I 
send  it  to  you  —  the  republication  will  (if  you  can  get  it  done)  be 
Serviceable  at  this  Juncture.  His  ipso  facto  objection  does  not,  I 
believe  require  any  answer,  every  mind  must  recoil  at  the  idea  — 
and  with  respect  to  the  navigation  act.  I  am  mistaken  if  any  men, 
bodies  of  men  or  Countries,  will  enter  into  any  compact  or  treaty, 
if  one  of  the  three  is  to  have  a  negative  controul  over  the  other  two, 
but  granting  that  it  is  an  evil  it  will  infallibly  work  its  own  cure.  — 
there  must  be  reciprocity  or  no  Union,  which  of  the  two  is  prefer- 
able, will  not  become  a  question  in  the  mind  of  any  true  patriot. 


CXXXIII.    Elbridge    Gerry    to    President   of    Senate  and 
Speaker  of  House  of  Representatives  of  Massachusetts.* 

^      ,  New  York,  Oct.  18,  1787. 

Gentlemen,  ^    /   / 

I  have  the  honour  to  inclose,  pursuant  to  my  commission,  the  con- 
stitution proposed  by  the  federal  convention. 

To  this  system  I  gave  my  dissent,  and  shall  submit  my  objec- 
tions to  the  honourable  legislature. 

It  was  painful  for  me,  on  a  subject  of  such  national  importance, 
to  differ  from  the  respectable  members  who  signed  the  constitu- 
tion: But  conceiving  as  I  did,  that  the  liberties  of  America  were 
not  secured  by  the  system,  it  was  my  duty  to  oppose  it. 

My  principal  objections  to  the  plan,  are,  that  there  is  no  adequate 
provision  for  a  representation  of  the  people  —  that  they  have  no 
security  for  the  right  of  election  —  that  some  of  the  powers  of  the 
legislature  are  ambiguous,  and  others  indefinite  and  dangerous  — 
that  the  executive  is  blended  with,  and  will  have  an  undue  influence 
over,  the  legislature  —  that  the  judicial  department  will  be  oppres- 
sive—  that  treaties  of  the  highest  importance  may  be  formed  by 
the  president  with  the  advice  of  two-thirds  of  a  quorum  of  the  senate 
—  and  that  the  system  is  without  the  security  of  a  bill  of  rights. 
These  are  objections  which  are  not  local,  but  apply  equally  to  all 
the  states. 

As  the  convention  was  called  for  "the  sole  and  express  purpose 

^  DocumerUary  History  of  the  Constitutiotty  IV,  333. 
■  For  extracts  from  this  speech,  see  CXXV  above. 
'  Carey's  American  Museum,  II,  435-436. 


APPENDIX  A,   CXXXIV  1 29 

of  revising  the  articles  of  confederation,  and  reporting  to  congress, 
and  the  several  legislatures,  such  alterations  and  provisions  as  shall 
render  the  federal  constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  govem« 
ment,  and  the  preservation  of  the  union,"  I  did  not  conceive  that 
these  powers  extend  to  the  formation  of  the  plan  proposed:  but  the 
convention  being  of  a  different  opinion,  I  acquiesced  in  it,  being 
fully  convinced  that  to  preserve  the  union,  an  efficient  government 
was  indispensably  necessary;  and  that  it  would  be  difficult  to  make 
proper  amendments  to  the  articles  of  confederation. 

The  constitution  proposed  has  few  if  any  federal  features;  but 
is  rather  a  system  of  national  government.  Nevertheless,  in  many 
respects,  I  think  it  has  great  merit,  and,  by  proper  amendments, 
may  be  adapted  to  the  ^^  exigencies  of  government,  and  preservation 
of  liberty."  *  

CXXXIV.   James  Madison  to  George  Washington.' 

N.  York  Octr.  18.  1787. 
I  have  been  this  day  honoured  with  your  favor  of  the  loth. 
instant,  under  the  same  cover  with  which  is  a  copy  of  Col.  Mason's 
objections  to  the  Work  of  the  Convention.  As  he  persists  in  the 
temper  which  produced  his  dissent  it  is  no  small  satisfaction  to  find 
him  reduced  to  such  distress  for  a  proper  gloss  on  it;  for  no  other 
consideration  surely  could  have  led  him  to  dwell  on  an  objection 
which  he  acknowledged  to  have  been  in  some  degree  removed  by 
the  Convention  themselves  —  on  the  paltry  right  of  the  Senate 
to  propose  alterations  in  money  bills  —  on  the  appointment  of  the 
vice  President  —  president  of  the  Senate  instead  of  making  the 
President  of  the  Senate  the  vice  president,  which  seemed  to  be  the 
alternative  —  and  on  the  possibility j  that  the  Congress  may  mis- 
construe their  powers  &  betray  their  trust  so  far  as  to  grant  monopo- 
lies in  trade  &c.  If  I  do  not  forget  too  some  of  his  other  reasons 
were  either  not  at  all  or  very  faintly  urged  at  the  time  when  alone 
they  ought  to  have  been  urged;  such  as  the  power  of  the  Senate 
in  the  case  of  treaties,  &  of  impeachments;  and  their  duration  in 
office.  With  respect  to  the  latter  point  I  recollect  well  that  he 
more  than  once  disclaimed  opposition  to  it.  My  memory  fails  me 
also  if  he  did  not  acquiesce  in  if  not  vote  for,  the  term  allowed  for 
the  further  importation  of  slaves;  and  the  prohibition  of  duties  on 
exports  by  the  States.  What  he  means  by  the  dangerous  tendency 
of  the  Judiciary  I  am  at  some  loss  to  comprehend.    It  never  was 

*  A  reply  to  Gerry's  "Objections"  will  be  found  in  C.  R.  King,  Life  and  Carre' 
spondence  of  Rufus  King,  I,  303-306.    An  extract  is  printed  in  CLXXXIII  below. 
^Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  334-33^. 


I30     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

intended,  nor  can  it  be  supposed  that  in  ordinary  cases  the  inferior 
tribunals  will  not  have  final  jurisdiction  in  order  to  prevent  the  evils 
of  which  he  complains.  The  great  mass  of  suits  in  every  State  lie 
between  Citizen  &  Citizen,  and  relate  to  matters  not  of  federal 
cognizance.  Notwithstanding  the  stress  laid  on  the  necessity  of  a 
Council  to  the  President  I  strongly  suspect,  tho  I  was  a  friend  to 
the  thing,  that  if  such  an  one  as  Col.  Mason  proposed,  had  been  estab- 
lished, and  the  power  of  the  Senate  in  appointments  to  offices  trans- 
ferred to  it,  that  as  great  a  clamour  would  have  been  heard  from  some 
quarters  which  in  general  eccho  his  Objections.  What  can  he  mean 
by  saying  that  the  Common  law  is  not  secured  by  the  new  Constitu- 
tion, though  it  has  been  adopted  by  the  State  Constitutions.  The 
Common  law  is  nothing  more  than  the  unwritten  law,  and  is  left 
by  all  the  Constitutions  equally  liable  to  legislative  alterations.  I 
am  not  sure  that  any  notice  is  particularly  taken  of  it  in  the  Con- 
stitutions of  the  States.  If  there  is,  nothing  more  is  provided  than 
a  general  declaration  that  it  shall  continue  along  with  other  branches 
of  law  to  be  in  force  till  legally  changed.  The  Constitution  of  Virga. 
drawn  up  by  Col  Mason  himself,  is  absolutely  silent  on  the  subject. 
An  ordinance  passed  during  the  same  Session,  declared  the  Common 
law  as  heretofore  &  all  Statutes  of  prior  date  to  the  4  of  James  I. 
to  be  still  the  law  of  the  land,  merely  to  obviate  pretexts  that  the 
separation  from  G.  Britain  threw  us  into  a  State  of  nature,  and  abol- 
ished all  civil  rights  and  obligations.  Since  the  Revolution  every 
State  has  made  great  inroads  &  with  great  propriety  in  many  in- 
stances on  this  monarchical  code.  The  "revisal  of  the  laws"  by  a 
Committe  of  wch.  Col.  Mason  was  a  member,  though  not  an  acting 
one,  abounds  with  such  innovations.  The  abolition  of  the  right  of 
primogeniture^  which  I  am  sure  Col.  Mason  does  not  disapprove, 
falls  under  this  head.  What  could  the  Convention  have  done?  If 
they  had  in  general  terms  declared  the  Common  law  to  be  in  force, 
they  would  have  broken  in  upon  the  legal  Code  of  every  State  in 
the  most  material  points:  they  wd.  have  done  more,  they  would 
have  brought  over  from  G.  B.  a  thousand  heterogeneous  &  antirepub- 
Hcan  doctrines,  and  even  the  ecclesiastical  Hierarchy  itself y  for  that  is 
a  part  of  the  Common  law.  If  they  had  undertaken  a  discrimination, 
they  must  have  formed  a  digest  of  laws,  instead  of  a  Constitution. 
This  objection  surely  was  not  brought  forward  in  the  Convention, 
or  it  wd.  have  been  placed  in  such  a  light  that  a  repetition  of  it 
out  of  doors  would  scarcely  have  been  hazarded.  Were  it  allowed 
the  weight  which  Col.  M.  may  suppose  it  deserves,  it  would  remain 
to  be  decided  whether  it  be  candid  to  arraign  the  Convention  for 
omissions  which  were  never  suggested  to  them  —  or  prudent    to 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXXV  I3I 

vindicate  the  dissent  by  reasons  which  either  were  not  previously 
thought  ofy  or  must  have  been  wilfully  concealed  —  But  I  am  running 
into  a  comment  as  prolix,  as  it  is  out  of  place. 


CXXXV-    George  Washington  to  James  Madison.^ 

Mount  Vernon,  22  October,  1787. 
Mr.  C.  Pinckney  is  unwilling,  (I  perceive  by  the  enclosures  con- 
tained in  your  favor  of  the  13th,)  to  lose  any  fame  that  can  be  ac- 
quired by  the  publication  of  his  sentiments. 


CXXXVI.    Benjamin  Franklin  to  Mr  Grand.* 

Philada.  Oct.  22  —  87. 
I  send  you  enclos'd  the  propos'd  new  Federal  Constitution  for 
these  States.  I  was  engag'd  4  Months  of  the  last  Summer  in  the 
Convention  that  formed  it.  It  is  now  sent  by  Congress  to  the  several 
States  for  their  Confirmation.  If  it  succeeds,  I  do  not  see  why  you 
might  not  in  Europe  carry  the  Project  of  good  Henry  the  4th  into 
Execution,  by  forming  a  Federal  Union  and  One  Grand  Republick 
of  all  its  different  States  &  Kingdoms;  by  means  of  a  like  Conven- 
tion; for  we  had  many  Interests  to  reconcile. 


CXXXVII.   James  Madison  to  Thomas  Jefferson.* 

New  York,  Octr  24,  1787- 
You  will  herewith  receive  the  result  of  the  Convention,  which 
continued  its  session  till  the  17th  of  September.     I  take  the  liberty 
of  making  some  observations  on  the  subject,  which  will  help  to  make 
up  a  letter,  if  they  should  answer  no  other  purpose. 

It  appeared  to  be  the  sincere  and  unanimous  wish  of  the  Con- 
vention to  cherish  and  preserve  the  Union  of  the  States.  No  propo- 
sition was  made,  no  suggestion  was  thrown  out,  in  favor  of  a  parti- 
tion of  the  Empire  into  two  or  more  Confederacies. 

It  was  generally  agreed  that  the  objects  of  the  Union  could  not 
be  secured  by  any  system  founded  on  the  principle  of  a  confederation 
of  Sovereign  States.  A  voluntary  observance  of  the  federal  law  by 
all  the  members  could  never  be  hoped  for.  A  compulsive  one  could 
evidently  never  be  reduced  to  practice,  and  if  it  could,  involved 
equal  calamities  to  the  innocent  &  the  guilty,  the  necessity  of  a  mili- 
tary force  both  obnoxious  &  dangerous,  and  in  general  a  scene 

» W.  C.  Ford,  Writings  of  George  Washington,  XI,  174-175. 
'  Documeniaty  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  341-342. 
•  Hunt,  Writings  of  James  Madison,  V,  17-35. 


■IIMI 


132      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

resembling  much  more  a  civil  war  than  the  administration  of  a 
regular  Government. 

Hence  was  embraced  the  alternative  of  a  Government  which 
instead  of  operating,  on  the  States,  should  operate  without  their 
intervention  on  the  individuals  composing  them;  and  hence  the 
change  in  the  principle  and  proportion  of  representation. 

This  ground-work  being  laid,  the  great  objects  which  presented 
themselves  were  i.  to  unite  a  proper  energy  in  the  Executive,  and 
a  proper  stability  in  the  Legislative  departments,  with  the  essential 
characters  of  Republican  Government.  2.  to  draw  a  line  of  demarka- 
tion  which  would  give  to  the  General  Government  every  power 
requisite  for  general  purposes,  and  leave  to  the  States  every  power 
which  might  be  most  beneficially  administered  by  them.  3.  to 
provide  for  the  different  interests  of  different  parts  of  the  Union. 
4.  to  adjust  the  clashing  pretensions  of  the  large  and  small  States. 
Each  of  these  objects  was  pregnant  with  difficulties.  The  whole 
of  them  together  formed  a  task  more  difficult  than  can  be  well  con- 
ceived by  those  who  were  not  concerned  in  the  execution  of  it.  Add- 
ing  to  these  considerations  the  natural  diversity  of  human  opinions 
on  all  new  and  complicated  subjects,  it  is  impossible  to  consider 
the  degree  of  concord  which  ultimately  prevailed  as  less  than  a 
miracle. 

The  first  of  these  objects,  as  respects  the  Executive,  was  pecul- 
iarly embarrassing.  On  the  question  whether  it  should  consist  of 
a  single  person,  or  a  plurality  of  co-ordinate  members,  on  the  mode 
of  appointment,  on  the  duration  in  office,  on  the  degree  of  power, 
on  the  re-eligibility,  tedious  and  reiterated  discussions  took  place. 
The  plurality  of  co-ordinate  members  had  finally  but  few  advocates. 
Govemour  Randolph  was  at  the  head  of  them.  The  modes  of  ap- 
pointment proposed  were  various,  as  by  the  people  at  large  —  by 
electors  chosen  by  the  people  —  by  the  Executives  of  the  States  — 
by  the  Congress,  some  preferring  a  joint  ballot  of  the  two  Houses  — 
some  a  separate  concurrent  ballot,  allowing  to  each  a  negative  on 
the  other  house  —  some,  a  nomination  of  several  candidates  by  one 
House,  out  of  whom  a  choice  should  be  made  by  the  other.  Several 
other  modifications  were  started.  The  expedient  at  length  adopted 
seemed  to  give  pretty  general  satisfaction  to  the  members.  As  to 
the  duration  in  office,  a  few  would  have  preferred  a  tenure  during 
good  behaviour  —  a  considerable  number  would  have  done  so  in 
case  an  easy  &  effectual  removal  by  impeachment  could  be  settled. 
It  was  much  agitated  whether  a  long  term,  seven  years  for  example, 
with  a  subsequent  &  perpetual  ineligibility,  or  a  short  term  with  a 
capacity  to  be  re-elected,  should  be  fixed.     In  favor  of  the  first 


APPENDIX  A,   CXXXVII  I33 

opinion  were  urged  the  danger  of  a  gradual  degeneracy  of  re-elections 
from  time  to  time,  into  first  a  life  and  then  a  hereditary  tenure,  and 
the  favorable  effect  of  an  incapacity  to  be  reappointed  on  the  inde- 
pendent exercise  of  the  Executive  authority.  On  the  other  side  it 
was  contended  that  the  prospect  of  necessary  degradation  would 
discourage  the  most  dignified  characters  from  aspiring  to  the  office, 
would  take  away  the  principal  motive  to  ye  faithful  discharge  of 
its  duties  —  the  hope  of  being  rewarded  with  a  reappointment  would 
stimulate  ambition  to  violent  efforts  for  holding  over  the  Consti- 
tutional term  —  and  instead  of  producing  an  independent  adminis- 
tration, and  a  firmer  defence  of  the  constitutional  rights  of  the 
department,  would  render  the  officer  more  indifferent  to  the  impor- 
tance of  a  place  which  he  would  soon  be  obliged  to  quit  forever, 
and  more  ready  to  yield  to  the  encroachmts.  of  the  Legislature  of 
which  he  might  again  be  a  member.  The  questions  concerning  the 
degree  of  power  turned  chiefly  on  the  appointment  to  offices,  and 
the  controul  on  the  Legislature.  An  absolute  appointment  to  all 
offices  —  to  some  ofiSces  —  to  no  offices,  formed  the  scale  of  opinions 
on  the  first  point.  On  the  second,  some  contended  for  an  absolute 
negative,  as  the  only  possible  mean  of  reducing  to  practice  the 
theory  of  a  free  Government  which  forbids  a  mixture  of  the  Legis- 
lative &  Executive  powers.  Others  would  be  content  with  a  re- 
visionary  power,  to  be  overruled  by  three  fourths  of  both  Houses. 
It  was  warmly  urged  that  the  judiciary  department  should  be  asso- 
ciated in  the  revision.  The  idea  of  some  was  that  a  separate  revi- 
sion should  be  given  to  the  two  departments  —  that  if  either  objected 
two  thirds,  if  both,  three  fourths,  should  be  necessary  to  overrule. 

In  forming  the  Senate,  the  great  anchor  of  the  Government  the 
questions,  as  they  came  within  the  first  object,  turned  mostly  on 
the  mode  of  appointment,  and  the  duration  of  it.  The  different 
modes  proposed  were  i.  by  the  House  of  Representatives.  2.  by 
the  Executive.  3.  by  electors  chosen  by  the  people  for  the  pur- 
pose. 4.  by  the  State  Legislatures.  —  On  the  point  of  duration, 
the  propositions  descended  from  good  behavior  to  four  years,  through 
the  intermediate  terms  of  nine,  seven,  six,  &  five  years.  The  elec- 
tion of  the  other  branch  was  first  determined  to  be  triennial,  and 
afterwards  reduced  to  biennial. 

The  second  object,  the  due  partition  of  power  between  the  Gen- 
eral &  local  Governments,  was  perhaps  of  all,  the  most  nice  and 
difficult.  A  few  contended  for  an  entire  abolition  of  the  States; 
Some  for  indefinite  power  of  Legislation  in  the  Congress,  with  a 
negative  on  the  laws  of  the  States;  some  for  such  a  power  without 
a  negative;    some  for  a  limited  power  of   legislation,  with  such  a 


134      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

negative;  the  majority  finally  for  a  limited  power  without  the 
negative.  The  question  with  regard  to  the  negative  under- 
went repeated  discussions,  and  was  finally  rejected  by  a  bare  ma- 
jority. As  I  formerly  intimated  to  you  my  opinion  in  favor 
of  this  ingredient,  I  will  take  this  occasion  of  explaining  myself  on 
the  subject.  Such  a  check  on  the  States  appears  to  me  necessary. 
I.  to  prevent  encroachments  on  the  General  authority.  2.  to  pre- 
vent instability  and  injustice  in  the  legislation  of  the  States. 

...  In  the  American  Constitution  the  general  authority  will  be 
derived  entirely  from  the  subordinate  authorities.  The  Senate  will 
represent  the  States  in  their  political  capacity;  the  other  House 
will  represent  the  people  of  the  States  in  their  individual  capacy. 
The  former  will  be  accountable  to  their  constituents  at  moderate, 
the  latter  at  short  periods.  The  President  also  derives  his  appoint- 
ment from  the  States,  and  is  periodically  accountable  to  them.  This 
dependence  of  the  General  on  the  local  authorities,  seems  e£Fectually 
to  guard  the  latter  against  any  dangerous  encroachments  of  the 
former;  whilst  the  latter,  within  their  respective  limits,  will  be 
continually  sensible  of  the  abridgement  of  their  power,  and  be  stimu- 
lated by 'ambition  to  resume  the  surrendered  portion  of  it.  We  find 
the  representatives  of  Counties  and  Corporations  in  the  Legisla- 
tures of  the  States,  much  more  disposed  to  sacrifice  the  aggregate 
interest,  and  even  authority,  to  the  local  views  of  their  constituents, 
than  the  latter  to  the  former.  I  mean  not  by  these  remarks  to  in- 
sinuate that  an  esprit  de  corps  will  not  exist  in  the  National  Govern- 
ment or  that  opportunities  may  not  occur  of  extending  its  jurisdiction 
in  some  points.  I  mean  only  that  the  danger  of  encroachments 
is  much  greater  from  the  other  side,  and  that  the  impossibil- 
ity of  dividing  powers  of  legislation,  in  such  a  manner,  as  to  be 
free  from  different  constructions  by  different  interests,  or  even  from 
ambiguity  in  the  judgment  of  the  impartial,  requires  some  such 
expedient  as  I  contend  for.  ...  It  may  be  said  that  the  Judicial 
authority,  under  our  new  system  will  keep  the  States  within  their 
proper  limits,  and  supply  the  place  of  a  negative  on  their  laws.  The 
answer  is,  that  it  is  more  convenient  to  prevent  the  passage  of  a 
law  than  to  declare  it  void  after  it  is  passed;  that  this  will  be  par- 
ticularly the  case,  where  the  law  aggrieves  individuals,  who  may 
be  unable  to  support  an  appeal  agst.  a  State  to  the  supreme  Judiciary; 
that  a  State  which  would  violate  the  Legislative  rights  of  die  Union, 
would  not  be  very  ready  to  obey  a  Judicial  decree  in  support  of  them, 
and  that  a  recurrence  to  force,  which,  in  the  event  of  disobedience 
would  be  necessary,  is  an  evil  which  the  new  Constitution  meant  to 
exclude  as  far  as  possible. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXXVII  I35 

2.  A  constitutional  negative  on  the  laws  of  the  States  seems 
equally  necessary  to  secure  individuals  agst.  encroachments  on  their 
rights.    •  .  • 

Begging  pardon  for  this  immoderate  digression  I  return  to  the 
third  object  above  mentioned,  the  adjustments  of  the  different 
interests  of  different  parts  of  the  Continent.  Some  contended  for 
an  unlimited  power  over  trade  including  exports  as  well  as  imports, 
and  over  slaves  as  well  as  other  imports;  some  for  such  a  power, 
provided  the  concurrence  of  two  thirds  of  both  Houses  were  required; 
Some  for  such  a  qualification  of  the  power,  with  an  exemption  of 
exports  and  slaves,  others  for  an  exemption  of  exports  only.  The 
result  is  seen  in  the  Constitution.  S.  Carolina  &  Georgia  were 
inflexible  on  the  point  of  the  slaves. 

The  remaining  object  created  more  embarrassment,  and  a  greater 
alarm  for  the  issue  of  the  Convention  than  all  the  rest  put  together. 
The  little  States  insisted  on  retaining  their  equality  in  both  branches, 
unless  a  compleat  abolition  of  the  State  Governments  should  take 
place;  and  made  an  equality  in  the  Senate  a  sine  qua  non.  The 
large  States  on  the  other  hand  urged  that  as  the  new  Government 
was  to  be  drawn  principally  from  the  people  immediately  and  was 
to  operate  directly  on  them,  not  on  the  States;  and  consequently 
as  the  States  wd.  lose  that  importance  which  is  now  proportioned 
to  the  importance  of  their  voluntary  compliances  with  the  requisi- 
tions of  Congress,  it  was  necessary  that  the  representation  in  both 
Houses  should  be  in  proportion  to  their  size.  It  ended  in  the  compro- 
mise which  you  will  see,  but  very  much  to  the  dissatisfaction  of  sev- 
eral members  from  the  large  States. 

It  will  not  escape  you  that  three  names  only  from  Virginia  are 
subscribed  to  the  Act.  Mr.  Wythe  did  not  return  after  the  death 
of  his  lady.  Doer.  M*Qurg  left  the  Convention  some  time  before 
the  adjournment.  The  Govemour  and  Col.  Mason  refused  to  be 
parties  to  it.  Mr.  Gerry  was  the  only  other  member  who  refused. 
The  objections  of  the  Govr.  turn  principally  on  the  latitude  of  the 
general  powers,  and  on  the  connection  established  between  the 
President  and  the  Senate.  He  wished  that  the  plan  should  be  pro- 
posed to  the  States  with  liberty  to  them  to  suggest  alterations  which 
should  all  be  referred  to  another  general  Convention,  to  be  incor- 
porated into  the  plan  as  far  as  might  be  judged  expedient.  He  was 
not  inveterate  in  his  opposition,  and  grounded  his  refusal  to  sub- 
scribe pretty  much  on  his  unwillingness  to  commit  himself,  so  as 
not  to  be  at  liberty  to  be  governed  by  further  lights  on  the  subject. 
Col.  Mason  left  Philada.  in  an  exceeding  ill  humour  indeed.  A 
number  of  little  circumstances  arising  in  part  from  the  impatience 


136      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

which  prevailed  towards  the  close  of  the  business,  conspired  to  whet 
his  acrimony.  He  returned  to  Virginia  with  a  fixed  disposition  to 
prevent  the  adoption  of  the  plan  if  possible.  He  considers  the 
want  of  a  Bill  of  Rights  as  a  fatal  objection.  His  other  objections 
are  to  the  substitution  of  the  Senate  in  place  of  an  Executive  Council 
&  to  the  powers  vested  in  that  body  —  to  the  powers  of  the  Judiciary 
—  to  the  vice  President  being  made  President  of  the  Senate  —  to 
the  smallest  of  the  number  of  Representatives  —  to  the  restriction 
on  the  States  with  regard  to  ex  post  facto  laws  —  and  most  of  all 
probably  to  the  power  of  regulating  trade,  by  a  majority  only  of 
each  House.  He  has  some  other  lesser  objections.  Being  now 
under  the  necessity  of  justifying  his  refusal  to  sign,  he  will  of  course 
muster  every  possible  one.  His  conduct  has  given  great  umbrage 
to  the  County  of  Fairfax,  and  particularly  to  the  Town  of  Alexan- 
dria. He  is  already  instructed  to  promote  in  the  Assembly  the 
calling  of  a  Convention,  and  will  probably  be  either  not  deputed 
to  the  Convention,  or  be  tied  up  by  express  instructions.  He  did 
not  object  in  general  to  the  powers  vested  in  the  National  Govern- 
ment, so  much  as  to  the  modification.  In  some  respects  he  admitted 
that  some  further  powers  would  have  improved  the  system.  He 
acknowledged  in  particular  that  a  negative  on  the  State  laws,  and 
the  appointment  of  the  State  Executive  ought  to  be  ingredients; 
but  supposed  that  the  public  mind  would  not  now  bear  them,  and 
that  experience  would  hereafter  produce  these  amendments. 


CXXXVHfl.    James  Madison  to  William  Short.^ 

New  York  Octr.  24.  1787 
The  paper  which  I  enclose  for  Mr.  Jefferson  will  shew  you  the 
result  of  the  Convention.  The  nature  of  the  subject,  the  diversity 
of  human  opinion,  and  the  collision  of  local  interests,  and  of  the  pre- 
tensions of  the  large  &  small  States,  will  not  only  account  for  the 
length  of  time  consumed  in  the  work,  but  for  the  irregularities  which 
will  be  discovered  in  its  structure  and  form. 


CXXXVni.    James  Madison  to  Edmund  Pendleton.* 

New  York  Octr.  28.  1787. 

I  have  reed,  and  acknowledge  with  great  pleasure  your  favor 

of  the  8th.  inst:    The  remarks  which  you  make  on  the  Act  of  the 

Convention  appear  to  me  to  be  in  general  extremely  well  founded. 

Your  criticism  on  the  clause  exempting  vessels  bound  to  or  from  a 

^  William  Short  MSS.,  Librtry  of  Congress. 

*  Docufiuntary  History  of  thi  ConstituHon,  IV,  352-353. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXXXIX  1 37 

Sute  from  being  obliged  to  enter  &c.  in  another  is  particularly  so. 
This  provision  was  dictated  by  the  jealousy  of  some  particular  States, 
and  was  inserted  pretty  late  in  the  Session.  The  object  of  it  was 
what  you  conjecture.    The  expression  is  certainly  not  accurate. 


CXXXIX.    A  Landholder  [Oliver  Ellsworth],  I.^ 

It  proves  the  honesty  and  patriotism  of  the  gentlemen  who 
composed  the  general  Convention,  that  they  chose  to  submit  their 
system  to  the  people  rather  than  the  legislatures,  whose  decisions 
are  often  influenced  by  men  in  the  higher  departments  of  government, 
who  have  provided  well  for  themselves  and  dread  any  change  least 
they  should  be  injured  by  its  operation.  I  would  not  wish  to  exclude 
from  a  State  Convention  those  gentlemen  who  compose  the  higher 
branches  of  the  assemblies  in  the  several  states,  but  choose  to  see 
them  stand  on  an  even  floor  with  their  brethren,  where  the  artifice 
of  a  small  number  cannot  negative  a  vast  majority  of  the  people. 

This  danger  was  foreseen  by  the  Federal  Convention,  and  they 
have  wisely  avoided  it  by  appealing  directly  to  the  people. 


CXL.    George  Washington  to  Mrs.  Macauly  Graham.' 

Mount  Vernon  Novber.  i6th  1787 
You  will  undoubtedly,  before  you  receive  this,  have  an  oppor- 
tunity of  seeing  the  Plan  of  Government  proposed  by  the  Conven- 
tion for  the  United  States.  You  will  very  readily  conceive.  Madam, 
the  difliculties  which  the  Convention  had  to  struggle  against.  The 
various  and  opposit  interests  which  were  to  be  conciliated  —  the 
local  prejudices  which  were  to  be  subdued,  the  diversity  of  opinions 
and  sentiments  which  were  to  be  reconciled;  and  in  fine,  the  sacri- 
fices which  were  necessary  to  be  made  on  all  sides  for  the  General 
welfare,  combined  o  make  it  a  work  of  so  intricate  and  diflicult 
a  nature  that  I  think  it  is  much  to  be  wondered  at  that  any  thing 
could  have  been  produced  with  such  unanimity  as  the  Constitution 
proposed.  

CXLI.    James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.* 

November  23,  1787. 
Mr.  Wilson  then  moved  that  the  time  of  meeting  and  adjourn- 
ing should  be  fixed,  observing  that  with  respect  to  the  time  of  ad- 

*  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  ike  Constitution,  139-140.    First  printed  in  the  Connecticut 
Courant  of  November  5,  1787. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  379. 

'  McMaster  and  Stone,  Pennsylvania  and  the  Federal  Constitution,  216. 


138      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

journment,  it  had  been  found  necessary  in  the  Federal  Convention 
to  make  a  rule  that  at  4  o'clock  they  should  break  up,  even  if  a  mem- 
ber was  in  the  middle  of  his  speech. 


CXLIL   James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.* 

November  24,  1787. 

To  frame  a  government  for  a  single  city  or  State,  is  a  business 
both  in  its  importance  and  facility,  widely  different  from  the  task 
entrusted  to  the  Federal  Convention,  whose  prospects  were  extended 
not  only  to  thirteen  independent  and  sovereign  States,  some  of 
which  in  territorial  jurisdiction,  population,  and  resource,  equal 
the  most  respectable  nations  of  Europe,  but  likewise  to  innumerable 
States  yet  unformed,  and  to  myriads  of  citizens  who  in  future  ages 
shall  inhabit  the  vast  uncultivated  regions  of  the  continent.  The 
duties  of  that  body  therefore,  were  not  limited  to  local  or  partial 
considerations,  but  to  the  formation  of  a  plan  commensurate  with 
a  great  and  valuable  portion  of  the  globe. 

I  confess,  Sir,  that  the  magnitude  of  the  object  before  us,  filled 
our  minds  with  awe  and  apprehension.  .  .  .  But  the  magnitude  of 
the  object  was  equalled  by  the  difficulty  of  accomplishing  it,  when 
we  considered  the  uncommon  dexterity  and  address  that  were  neces- 
sary to  combat  and  reconcile  the  jarring  interests  that  seemed 
naturally  to  prevail,  in  a  country  which,  presenting  a  coast  of  1500 
miles  to  the  Atlantic,  is  composed  of  13  distinct  and  independent 
States,  varying  essentially  in  their  situation  and  dimensions,  and 
in  the  number  and  habits  of  their  citizens  —  their  interests  too,  in 
some  respects  really  different,  and  in  many  apparently  so;  but 
whether  really  or  apparently,  such  is  the  constitution  of  the  human 
mind,  they  make  the  same  impression,  and  are  prosecuted  with  equal 
vigor  and  perseverance.  Can  it  then  be  a  subject  for  surprise  that 
with  the  sensations  indispensably  excited  by  so  comprehensive  and 
so  arduous  an  undertaking,  we  should  for  a  moment  yield  to  de- 
spondency, and  at  length,  influenced  by  the  spirit  of  conciliation, 
resort  to  mutual  concession,  as  the  only  means  to  obtain  the  great 
end  for  which  we  were  convened?  Is  it  a  matter  of  surprise  that 
where  the  springs  of  dissension  were  so  numerous,  and  so  powerful, 
some  force  was  requisite  to  impel  them  to  take,  in  a  collected  state, 
a  direction  different  from  that  which  separately  they  would  have 
pursued  ? 

There  was  another  reason,  that  in  this  respect,  increased  the 
difficulties  of  the  Federal  Convention  —  the  different  tempers  and 

*■  McMaster  tnd  Stone,  Pennsylnania  and  ike  Fedifd  Constitution^  219-231. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXLII  1 39 

dispositions  of  the  people  for  whom  they  acted.  But,  however 
widely  they  may  differ  upon  other  topics,  they  cordially  agree  in 
that  keen  and  elevated  sense  of  freedom  and  independence,  which 
has  been  manifested  in  their  united  and  successful  opposition  to 
one  of  the  most  powerful  kingdoms  of  the  world.  Still  it  was  appre- 
hended by  some,  that  their  abhorrence  of  constraint,  would  be  the 
source  of  objection  and  opposition;  but  I  confess  that  my  opinion, 
formed  upon  a  knowledge  of  the  good  sense,  as  well  as  the  high  spirit 
of  my  constituents,  made  me  confident  that  they  would  esteem  that 
government  to  be  the  best,  which  was  best  calculated  eventually 
to  establish  and  secure  the  dignity  and  happiness  of  their  country. 
Upon  this  ground,  I  have  occasionally  supposed  that  my  consti- 
tuents have  asked  the  reason  of  my  assent  to  the  several  propo- 
sitions contained  in  the  plan  before  us.  My  answer,  though  concise, 
is  a  candid  and  I  think  a  satisfactory  one  —  because  I  thought  them 
right;  and  thinking  them  right,  it  would  be  a  poor  compliment 
indeed  to  presume  they  could  be  disagreeable  to  my  constituents. 
.  .  .  The  extent  of  country  for  which  the  New  Constitution  was 
required,  produced  another  difficulty  in  the  business  of  the  Federal 
Convention.  It  is  the  opinion  of  some  celebrated  writers,  that  to  a 
small  territory  the  democratical,  to  a  middling  territory  (as  Montes- 
quieu has  termed  it)  the  monarchical,  and  to  an  extensive  territory 
the  despotic  form  of  gove  nment,  is  best  adapted.  Regarding  then, 
the  wide  and  almost  unbounded  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States, 
at  first  view  the  hand  of  despotism  seemed  necessary  to  control, 
connect  and  protect  it;  and  hence  the  chief  embarrassment  arose. 
For  we  knew  that,  although  our  constituents  would  cheerfully  sub- 
mit to  the  legislative  restraints  of  a  free  government,  they  would 
spurn  at  every  attempt  to  shackle  them  with  despotic  power. 

In  this  dilemma,  a  Federal  Republic  naturally  presented  itself 
to  our  observation,  as  a  species  of  government  which  secured  all 
the  internal  advantages  of  a  republic,  at  the  same  time  that  it  main- 
tained the  external  dignity  and  force  of  a  monarchy.    .  .  . 

But  while  a  federal  republic  removed  one  difiliculty,  it  introduced 
another,  since  there  existed  not  any  precedent  to  assist  our  delibera- 
tions; for,  though  there  are  many  single  governments,  both  ancient 
and  modem,  the  history  and  principles  of  which  are  faithfully 
preserved  and  well  understood,  a  perfect  confederation  of  independ- 
ent states  is  a  system  hitherto  unknown.        '^ 

•  .  .  Another,  and  perhaps  the  most  important  obstacle  to  the 
proceedings  of  the  Federal  Convention,  arose  in  drawing  the  line 
between  the  national  and  the  individual  governments  of  the,  states. 

On  this  point  a  general  principle  readily  occurred,  that  whatever 


140     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

object  was  confined  in  its  nature  and  operation  to  a  particular  State 
ought  to  be  subject  to  the  separate  government  of  the  States;  but 
whatever  in  its  nature  and  operation  extended  beyond  a  particular 
State,  ought  to  be  comprehended  within  the  federal  jurisdiction. 
The  great  difficulty,  therefore,  was  the  application  of  this  general 
principle,  for  it  was  found  impracticable  to  enumerate  and  dis- 
tinguish the  various  objects  to  which  it  extended;  and  as  the  mathe- 
matics only  are  capable  of  demonstration,  it  ought  not  to  be  thought 
extraordinary  that  the  convention  could  not  develop  a  subject 
involved  in  such  endless  perplexity.    .  .  . 

These  difficulties,  Mr.  President,  which  embarrassed  the  Federal 
Convention,  are  not  represented  to  enhance  the  merit  of  surmounting 
them,  but  with  a  more  important  view,  to  show  how  unreasonable  it 
is  to  expect  that  the  plan  of  government  should  correspond  with  the 
wishes  of  all  the  States,  of  all  the  Citizens  of  any  one  State,  or  of 
all  the  citizens  of  the  united  continent.  I  remember  well.  Sir,  the 
effect  of  those  surrounding  difficulties  in  the  late  Convention.  At 
one  time  the  great  and  interesting  work  seemed  to  be  at  a  stand, 
at  another  it  proceeded  with  energy  and  rapidity,  and  when  at 
last  it  was  accomplished,  many  respectable  members  beheld  it  with 
wonder  and  admiration.  But  having  pointed  out  the  obstacles 
which  they  had  to  encounter,  I  shall  now  beg  leave  to  direct  your 
attention  to  the  end  which  the  Convention  proposed.    .  .  . 

At  this  period,  America  has  it  in  her  power  to  adopt  either  of 
the  following  modes  of  government:  She  may  dissolve  the  indi- 
vidual sovereignty  of  the  States,  and  become  one  consolidated 
empire;  she  may  be  divided  into  thirteen  separate,  independent 
and  unconnected  commonwealths;  she  may  be  erected  into  two  or 
more  confederacies;  or,  lastly,  she  may  become  one  comprehensive 
Federal  Republic.    .  .  . 

Of  these  three  species  of  government,  however,  I  must  observe, 
that  they  obtained  no  advocates  in  the  Federal  Convention,  nor  can 
I  presume  that  they  will  find  advocates  here,  or  in  any  of  our  sister 
States.  The  general  sentiment  in  that  body,  and,  I  believe,  the 
general  sentiment  of  the  citizens  of  America,  is  expressed  in  the 
motto  which  some  of  them  have  chosen,  unite  or  die;  and  while 
we  consider  the  extent  of  the  country,  so  intersected  and  almost 
surrounded  with  navigable  rivers,  so  separated  and  detached  from 
the  rest  of  the  world,  it  is  natural  to  presume  that  Providence  has 
designed  us  for  an  united  people,  under  one  great  political  compact. 
If  this  is  a  just  and  reasonable  conclusion,  supported  by  the  wishes 
of  the  people,  the  Convention  did  right  in  proposing  a  single  con- 
federated Republic.     But  in  proposing  it  they  were  necessary  led, 


APPENDIX  A,    CXLII  I4I 

not  only  to  consider  the  situation,  circumstances,  and  interests  of 
one,  two,  or  three  States,  but  of  the  collective  body;  and  as  it  is 
essential  to  society,  that  the  welfare  of  the  whole  should  be  preferred 
to  the  accomodation  of  a  part,  they  followed  the  same  rule  in  pro- 
moting the  national  advantages  of  the  Union,  in  preference  to  the 
separate  advantages  of  the  States.  A  principle  of  candor,  as  well 
as  duty,  led  to  this  conduct;  for,  as  I  have  said  before,  no  govern- 
ment, either  single  or  confederated,  can  exist,  unless  private  and 
individual  rights  are  subservient  to  the  public  and  general  happiness 
of  the  nation.  It  was  not  alone  the  State  of  Pennsylvania,  however 
important  she  may  be  as  a  constituent  part  of  the  union,  that  could 
influence  the  deliberations  of  a  convention  formed  by  a  delegation 
from  all  the  United  States  to  devise  a  government  adequate  to  their 
common  exigencies  and  impartial  in  its  influence  and  operation. 
In  the  spirit  of  union,  inculcated  by  the  nature  of  their  commission, 
they  framed  the  constitution  before  us,  and  in  the  same  spirit  they 
submit  it  to  the  candid  consideration  of  their  constituents.     .  .  • 

These  observations  have  been  made,  Mr.  President,  in  order  to 
preface  a  representation  of  the  state  of  the  Union,  as  it  appeared  to 
the  late  convention.  We  all  know,  and  we  have  all  felt,  that  the 
present  system  of  confederation  is  inadequate  to  the  government 
and  the  exigencies  of  the  United  States.  .  .  . 
Has  America  lost  her  magnanimity  or  perseverance?  No!  Has  she 
been  subdued  by  any  high-handed  invasion  of  her  liberties?  Still 
I  answer  no;  for  dangers  of  that  kind  were  no  sooner  seen  than  they 
were  repelled.  But  the  evil  has  stolen  in  from  a  quarter  little  sus- 
pected, and  the  rock  of  freedom,  which  stood  firm  against  the  attacks 
of  a  foreign  foe,  has  been  sapped  and  undermined  by  the  licentious- 
ness of  our  own  citizens.  Private  calamity  and  public  anarchy 
have  prevailed;  and  even  the  blessing  of  independency  has  been 
scarcely  felt  or  understood  by  a  people  who  have  dearly  achieved 
it.     ... 

The  commencement  of  peace  was  likewise  the  commencement 
of  our  distress  and  disgrace.  Devoid  of  power,  we  could  neither 
prevent  the  excessive  importations  which  lately  deluged  the  country, 
nor  even  raise  from  that  excess  a  contribution  to  the  public  revenue; 
devoid  of  importance,  we  were  unable  to  command  a  sale  for  our 
commodities  in  a  foreign  market;  devoid  of  credit,  our  public  securi- 
ties were  melting  in  the  hands  of  their  deluded  owners,  like  snow 
before  the  sun;  devoid  of  dignity,  we  were  inadequate  to  perform 
treaties  on  our  own  part,  or  to  compel  a  performance  on  the  part 
of  a  contracting  nation.  In  short.  Sir,  the  tedious  tale  disgusts  me, 
and  I  fondly  hope  it  is  unnecessary  to  proceed.    The  years  of  languor 


142     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

are  over.  We  have  seen  dishonor  and  destruction,  it  is  true,  but 
we  have  at  length  penetrated  the  cause,  and  are  now  anxious  to  ob- 
tain the  cure.  The  cause  need  not  be  specified  by  a  recapitulation 
of  facts;  every  act  of  Congress,  and  the  proceedings  of  every  State, 
are  replete  with  proofs  in  that  respect,  and  all  point  to  the  weakness 
and  imbecility  of  the  existing  confederation;  while  the  loud  and 
concurrent  voice  of  the  people  proclaims  an  efficient  national  govern- 
ment to  be  the  only  cure.  Under  these  impressions,  and  with  these 
views,  the  late  convention  were  appointed  and  met;  the  end  which 
they  proposed  to  accomplish  being  to  frame  one  national  and  efficient 
government,  in  which  the  exercise  of  beneficence,  correcting  the 
jarring  interests  of  every  part,  should  pervade  the  whole,  and  by 
which  the  peace,  freedom,  and  happiness  of  the  United  States  should 
be  permanently  ensured.  The  principles  and  means  that  were 
adopted  by  the  convention  to  obtain  that  end  are  now  before  us, 
and  will  become  the  great  object  of  our  discussion. 

•  .  .  That  the  supreme  power,  therefore,  should  be  vested  in 
the  people,  is  in  my  judgment  the  great  panacea  of  human  politics. 
It  is  a  power  paramount  to  every  constitution,  inalienable  in  its 
nature,  and  indefinite  in  its  extent.  For  I  insist,  if  there  are  errors 
in  government,  the  people  have  the  right  not  only  to  correct  and 
amend  them,  but  likewise  totally  to  change  and  reject  its  form; 
and  under  the  operation  of  that  right,  the  citizens  of  the  United 
States  can  never  be  wretched  beyond  retrieve,  unless  they  are  want- 
ing to  themselves. 

Then  let  us  examine,  Mr.  President,  the  three  species  of  simple 
government,  which  as  I  have  already  mentioned,  are  the  monarchical, 
aristocratical  and  democratical.    •  •  . 

To  obtain  all  the  advantages,  and  to  avoid  all  the  inconveniences 
of  these  governments,  was  the  leading  object  of  the  late  convention. 
Having  therefore  considered  the  formation  and  principles  of  other 
systems,  it  is  natural  to  enquire,  of  what  description  is  the  constitu- 
tion before  us?  In  its  principles.  Sir,  it  is  purely  democratical; 
varying  indeed,  in  its  form,  in  order  to  admit  all  the  advantages, 
and  to  exclude  all  the  disadvantages  which  are  incidental  to  the 
known  and  established  constitutions  of  government.  But  when 
we  take  an  extensive  and  accurate  view  of  the  streams  of  power 
that  appear  through  this  great  and  comprehensive  plan,  when  we 
contemplate  the  variety  of  their  directions,  the  force  and  dignity 
of  their  currents,  when  we  behold  them  intersecting,  embracing, 
and  surrounding  the  vast  possessions  and  interests  of  the  continent, 
and  when  we  see  them  distributing  on  all  hands  beauty,  energy 
and  riches,  still,  however  numerous  and  wide  their  courses,  however 


APPENDIX  A,    CXLIII  1 43 

diversified  and  remote  the  blessings  they  diffuse,  we  shall  be  able 
to  trace  them  all  to  one  great  and  noble  source,  the  people. 


CXLIII.   James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.^ 

November  26,  1787. 
It  was  observed  in  the  convention,  that  the  Federal  convention 
had  exceeded  the  powers  given  to  them  by  the  several  legislatures; 
but  Mr.  Wilson  observed,  that  however  foreign  the  question  was  to 
the  present  business,  he  would  place  it  in  its  proper  light.  The 
Federal  convention  did  not  act  at  all  upon  the  powers  given  to  them 
by  the  States,  but  they  proceeded  upon  original  principles,  and 
having  framed  a  constitution  which  they  thought  would  promote 
the  happiness  of  their  country,  they  have  submitted  it  to  their 
consideration,  who  may  either  adopt  or  reject  it,  as  they  please. 


CXLIV.    The  Landholder  [Oliver  Ellsworth],  IV.* 

By  the  proposed  constitution  the  new  Congress  will  consist 
of  nearly  one  hundred  men;  when  our  population  is  equal  to  Great 
Britain  of  three  hundred  men,  and  when  equal  to  France  of  nine 
hundred.  Plenty  of  Lawgivers!  why  any  gentlemen  should  wish 
for  more  is  not  conceivable. 

.  .  .  Convention  foreseeing  this  danger,  have  so  worded  the 
article,  that  if  the  people  should  at  any  future  time  judge  necessary, 
they  may  diminish  the  representation. 


CXLV.   James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.' 

November  28,  1787. 

Mr.  President,  we  are  repeatedly  called  upon  to  give  some  reason 
why  a  bill  of  rights  has  not  been  annexed  to  the  proposed  plan  .  .  . 
But  the  truth  is.  Sir,  that  this  circumstance,  which  has  since  occa- 
sioned so  much  clamor  and  debate,  never  struck  the  mind  of  any 
member  in  the  late  convention  till,  I  believe,  within  three  days 
of  the  dissolution  of  that  body,  and  even  then  of  so  little  account 
was  the  idea  that  it  passed  off  in  a  short  conversation,  without 
introducing  a  formal  debate  or  assuming  the  shape  of  a  motion.    .  .  • 

.  .  .  Thus,  Sir,  it  appears  from  the  example  of  other  states,  as 
well  as  from  principle,  that  a  bill  of  rights  is  neither  an  essential 
nor  a  necessary  instrument  in  framing  a  system  of  government, 

^  McMaster  and  Stone,  Pennsylvania  and  the  Federal  ConstitiUion,  p.  235. 
*P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  Constitution^  p.  152,  from  the  Connecticut  Courani,  of 
November  26, 1787. 

'  McMaster  and  Stone,  Pennsyhania  and  the  Federal  Constitution^  pp.  252-254. 


144      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

since  liberty  may  exist  and  be  as  well  secured  without  it.  But  it 
was  not  only  unnecessary,  but  on  this  occasion  it  was  found  imprac* 
ticable  —  for  who  will  be  bold  enough  to  undertake  to  enumerate 
all  the  rights  of  the  people?  —  and  when  the  attempt  to  enumerate 
them  is  made,  it  must  be  remembered  that  if  the  enumeration  is 
not  complete,  everything  not  expressly  mentioned  will  be  presumed 
to  be  purposely  omitted.        

CXLVI.    James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.* 

November  28,  1787. 
The  truth  is,  Sir,  that  the  framers  of  this  system  were  particu- 
larly anxious,  and  their  work  demonstrates  their  anxiety,  to  pre- 
serve the  state  governments  unimpaired  —  it  was  their  favorite 
object;  and,  perhaps,  however  proper  it  might  be  in  itself,  it  is 
more  difficult  to  defend  the  plan  on  account  of  the  excessive  caution 
used  in  that  respect  than  from  any  other  objection  that  has  been 
offered  here  or  elsewhere.  ...  I  trust  it  is  unnecessary  to  dwell 
longer  upon  this  subject;  for,  when  gentlemen  assert  that  it  was 
the  intention  of  the  federal  convention  to  destroy  the  sovereignty 
of  the  states,  they  must  conceive  themselves  better  qualified  to 
judge  of  the  intention  of  that  body  than  its  own  members,  of  whom 
not  one,  I  believe,  entertained  so  improper  an  idea. 


CXLVIa.   James  McHenry   before  the  Maryland  House  of 

Delegates.' 

Maryland  Novr.  29th  1787  — 
The  Delegates  to  the  late  Convention  being  call'd  before  the  House 
of  Representatives  to  explain  the  Principles,  upon  which  the  pro- 
posed Constitution  for  the  United  States  of  America  were  formed 

Mr.  McHenry  addressed  the  House  in  the  followg.  terms 
Mr.  Speaker, 

Convention  having  deposited  their  proceedings  with  their  Worthy 
President,  and  by  a  Resolve  prohibited  any  copy  to  be  taken,  under 
the  Idea  that  nothing  but  the  Constitution  thus  framed  and  sub- 

^  McMaster  and  Stone,  Pennsylvania  and  the  Federal  Constitution,  p.  265. 

'  This  document  and  the  one  following  (CXLVIA),  in  the  possession  of  the  Library 
of  G>ngress»  were  among  the  manuscripts  of  John  Leeds  Bozman.  Mr.  Bernard  C. 
Steiner  of  the  Enoch  Pratt  Free  Library,  Baltimore,  identifies  them  as  a  part  of  the 
legislative  records  of  Maryland  and  as  in  the  handwriting  of  one  of  the  clerks  of  the 
legislature.      (Maryland  Historical  Magazine,  December,  1909.) 

The  documents  having  become  accessible  since  the  manuscript  of  the  present 
work  was  completed,  the  editor  has  been  unable  to  give  as  complete  a  series  of  cioes- 
referencea  to  them  as  their  importance  would  warrant. 


APPENDIX  A,   CXLVItf  I45 

mitted  to  the  Public  could  come  under  their  consideration,  I  regret 
that  at  this  distant  period,  I  am  unable  from  Memory  to  give  this 
Honorable  House  so  full  and  accurate  information  as  might  pos- 
sibly be  expected  on  so  important  and  interesting  a  Subject.  I 
Collated  however  from  my  Notes  as  soon  as  the  Pleasure  of  this 
House  was  made  known  to  me  such  of  the  proceedings  as  pass'd 
under  my  observation  from  an  anxious  desire  I  have  to  give  this 
Honorable  Body  the  information  they  require  — 

It  must  be  within  the  Knowledge  of  this  House  Mr  Speaker 
that  the  plan  of  a  Convention  originated  in  Virginia  —  accordingly 
when  it  met  at  Philadelphia  the  objects  of  the  meeting  were  first 
brought  forward  in  an  address  from  an  Honorable  Member  of  that 
State.  He  premised  that  our  present  Constitution  had  not  and  on 
further  experiance  would  be  found  that  it  could  not  fulfill  the  objects 
of  the  Confederation. 

1st.  It  has  no  sufficient  provision  for  internal  defence  nor  against 
foreign  invasion,  if  a  State  offends  it  cannot  punish;  nor  if  the  rights 
of  Embassadors  or  foreign  Nations  be  invaded  have  the  Judges  of 
the  respective  States  competent  Jurisdiction  to  redress  them.  In 
short  the  Journals  of  Congress  are  nothing  more  than  a  History  of 
expedients,  without  any  regular  or  fixed  system,  and  without  power 
to  give  them  efficacy  or  carry  them  into  Execution  — 

2nd.  It  does  not  secure  the  separate  States  from  Sedition 
among  themselves  nor  from  encroachments  against  each  other  — 

3rd.  It  is  incapable  of  producing  certain  blessings  the  Objects 
of  all  good  governments.  Justice,  Domestic  Tranquillity,  Common 
Defence  Security  to  Liberty  and  general  Welfare  —  Congress  have 
no  powers  by  imposts  to  discharge  their  internal  engagements  or 
to  sustain  their  Credit  with  Foreigners  —  they  have  no  powers  to 
restrain  the  Emission  of  Bills  of  Credit  issued  to  the  destruction  of 
foreign  Commerce  —  the  perversion  of  National  Justice  and  viola- 
tion of  private  Contracts  —  they  have  no  power  to  promote  inland 
Navigation,  encourage  Agriculture  or  Manufactures 

4th.  They  have  no  means  to  defend  themselves  against  the 
most  direct  encroachments  —  in  every  Congress  there  is  a  party 
opposed  to  Federal  Measures  —  In  every  state  even  there  is  a  party 
opposed  to  efficient  Government,  the  wisest  regulations  may  there- 
fore thwarted  and  evaded:  the  Legislature  be  treated  with  insult 
and  derision  and  there  is  no  power,  no  force  to  carry  their  Laws 
into  execution,  or  to  punish  the  Offenders  who  oppose  them. 

5th.  The  Confederation  is  inferior  to  the  State  Constitutions 
and  cannot  therefore  have  that  controul  over  them  which  it  neces- 
sarily requires  —  the  State  Governments  were  first  formed  and  the 


146      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

federal  Government  derived  out  of  them  wherefore  the  Law8  of 
the  respective  States  are  paramount  and  cannot  be  controuled  by 
the  Acts  of  Congress  — 

He  then  descanted  with  Energy  on  our  respective  situations 
from  New  Hampshire  to  Georgia,  on  the  Situation  of  our  joint 
National  Affairs  at  Home  and  abroad  and  drew  the  Conclusion  that 
all  were  on  the  brink  of  ruin  and  disolution  —  That  once  dissolve 
the  tie  by  which  we  are  united  and  alone  preserved  and  the  prediction 
of  our  Enemies  would  be  compleat  in  the  bloodshed  in  contending 
and  opposite  interests  —  That  perhaps  this  was  the  last,  the  only 
opportunity  we  should  ever  have  to  avoid  or  remedy  those  impend- 
ing evils  —  The  Eyes  of  all  actuated  by  hopes  or  fears  were  fixed 
upon  the  proceedings  of  this  Convention  and  if  the  present  meeting 
founded  in  a  Spirit  of  Benevolence  and  General  Good,  did  not  cor- 
rect, or  reform  our  present  Situation,  it  would  end  most  assuredly 
in  the  Shame  and  ruin  of  ourselves  and  the  Tryumph  of  others  — 
He  therefore  moved  that  it  be  "Resolved  the  Articles  of  the  Con- 
federation ought  to  be  corrected  and  enlarged,  and  for  that  purpose 
submitted  certain  resolves  to  the  further  Consideration  of  the  Con- 
vention —  Convention  being  thus  in  possession  of  these  propo- 
sitions on  the  thirtieth  of  May  Resolved  to  go  into  a  consideration 
of  them  when  the  Honorable  Gentleman  who  first  brought  them 
forward  moved  to  withdraw  the  two  first  Resolutions,  and  to  sub- 
stitute the  following  in  lieu  of  them  —  ist.  That  the  Union  of  the 
States  ought  to  be  founded  on  the  basis  of  Common  Defence,  secur- 
ity to  Liberty,  and  General  Welfare.  2d.  That  to  this  end  the  right 
of  Suffrage  ought  to  be  in  proportion  to  the  value  of  the  Property 
contributing  to  the  expence  of  General  Government  or  to  the  free 
Inhabitants  that  compose  such  Government.  3rd.  That  a  National 
Government  ought  to  be  formed  with  Legislative  and  Judicial 
powers.  —  At  this  period,  Mr.  Speaker  I  was  suddenly  call'd  from 
Philadelphia  by  an  account  that  one  of  my  nearest  and  Dearest 
Relations  was  at  the  point  of  Death,  and  did  not  return  till  the  4th 
of  August  —  Convention  had  formed  a  Committee  of  Detail  in  my 
absence  which  on  the  sixth  of  August  brought  in  their  report,  that 
had  for  its  Basis  the  propositions  handed  from  Virginia,  and  with 
some  amendments  is  the  Constitution  now  submitted  to  the  People — ^ 
S:  2  To  this  Section  it  was  objected  that  if  the  qualifications  of  the 
Electors  were  the  same  as  in  the  State  Governments,  it  would  involve 
in  the  Federal  System  all  the  Disorders  of  a  Democracy;   and  it 

^  The  third  page  of  the  MS.  ends  at  this  point,  and  the  next  page  begins  abrupdy 
with  a  discussion  of  article  I,  Section  2,  of  the  completed  G>nstitution. 


APPENDIX  A,   CXLVIa  I47 

was  therefore  contended,  that  none  but  Freeholders,  permanently 
interested  in  the  Government  ought  to  have  a  right  of  Suffrage  — 
the  Venerable  Franklin  opposed  to  this  the  natural  rights  of  Man  — 
their  rights  to  an  immediate  voice  in  the  general  Assemblage  of  the 
whole  Nation,  or  to  a  right  of  Suffrage  &  Representation  and  he 
instanced  from  general  History  and  particular  events  the  indifference 
of  those,  to  the  prosperity  and  Welfare  of  the  State  who  were  de- 
prived of  it.  Residence  was  likewise  thought  essential  to  interest 
the  Human  heart  sufficiently  by  those  ties  and  affections  it  neces- 
sarily  creates  to  the  general  prosperity  —  at  first  the  Report  of  the 
Committee  had  extended  it  to  three  Years  only,  but  on  better  con- 
sideration it  was  altered  to  Seven;  And  the  Period  of  Twenty  five 
Years  deemed  a  necessary  Age  to  mature  the  Judgement  and  form 
the  mind  by  habits  of  reflection  and  experience.  —  Little  was  said 
on  this  subject  it  passed  without  any  considerable  opposition  and 
therefore  I  was  not  at  the  pains  to  note  any  other  particulars  respect- 
ing it 

That  the  Representatives  should  be  appointed  according  to  Num- 
bers occasioned  a  very  long,  interesting  and  serious  Debate.  The 
Larger  States  warmly  contended  for  this  Regulation  and  were  seri- 
ously opposed  by  the  lesser  —  by  the  latter  it  was  contended  it 
threw  too  much  power  into  the  hands  of  the  former,  and  it  was 
answered  by  the  former  that  Representation  ought  to  be  according 
to  property,  or  numbers,  and  in  either  case  they  had  a  right  to  such 
influence  as  their  Situation  gave  them,  on  the  contrary  if  each  State 
had  an  equal  voice,  It  would  unreasonably  throw  the  whole  power 
in  the  lesser  States  —  In  the  end  a  compromise  took  place  by  giving 
an  equal  Voice  to  each  State  in  the  Senate  which  'till  then  the  larger 
States  had  contended  ought  to  be  formed  like  the  other  branch  by 
a  Representation  according  to  numbers ' — 

S:  3d.  The  Gassing  the  Senate  so  as  to  produce  the  proposed 
change  was  established  by  Convention  on  the  principle  that  a  Ro- 
tation of  power  is  essential  to  Liberty.  No  qualification  of  property 
was  adopted,  that  merit  alone  might  advance  unclogged  by  such 
restriction.  It  did  not  pass  however  unattempted;  but  the  pro- 
posed rate  of  property  by  the  South,  was  thought  much  too  high 
by  the  East,  as  that  by  the  East  on  the  Contrary  was  deemed  too 
low  by  the  South. — 

The  Committee  of  Detail  by  their  report  had  at  first  given  to 
the  Senate  the  choice  of  their  own  President  but  to  avoid  Cabal 


^  McHeary  was  absent  from  the  Convention  at  the  time  of  this  debate  and  com- 
promise, so  that  this  statement  is  not  based  upon  his  own  observation. 


148      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

and  undue  influence,  it  was  thought  better  to  alter  it.  And  the 
power  of  trying  impeachments  was  lodged  with  this  Body  as  more 
likely  to  be  governed  by  cool  and  candid  investigation,  than  by  those 
heats  that  too  often  inflame  and  influence  more  populous  Assemblys. 

S  4.  It  was  thought  expedient  to  vest  the  Congress  with  the  powers 
contained  in  this  Section,  which  particular  exigencies  might  require 
them  to  exercise,  and  which  the  immediate  representatives  of  the 
People  can  never  be  supposed  capable  of  wantonly  abusing  to  the 
prejudice  of  their  Constituents  —  Convention  had  in  Contemplation 
the  possible  events  of  Insurrection,  Invasion,  and  even  to  provide 
against  any  disposition  that  might  occur  hereafter  in  any  partic- 
ular State  to  thwart  the  measures  of  the  General  Government  on 
the  other  hand  by  an  Assembly  once  a  Year  Security  is  Annually 
given  to  the  People  against  encroachments  of  the  Governments 
on  their  Liberty. 

S  5.  Respects  only  the  particular  privileges  and  Regulations  of 
each  branch  of  the  Legislature. 

S  6.  That  the  attendance  of  Members  in  the  General  Legislature 
at  a  great  distance  from  their  respective  abodes  might  not  be  ob- 
structed and  in  some  instances  prevented  either  by  design  or  other- 
wise in  withholding  any  Compensation  for  their  Services,  Conven- 
tion thought  it  most  adviseable  to  pay  them  out  of  the  General 
Treasury,  otherwise  a  representation  might  some  times  fail  when 
the  Public  Exigence  might  require  that  attendance  —  Whether 
any  Members  of  the  Legislature  should  be  Capable  of  holding  any 
Office  during  the  time  for  which  he  was  Elected  created  much  divi- 
sion in  Sentiment  in  Convention;  but  to  avoid  as  much  as  possible 
every  motive  for  Corruption,  was  at  length  Settled  in  the  form  it 
now  bears  by  a  very  large  Majority. 

S:  7.  Much  was  also  said  on  the  Priviledge  that  the  immediate 
Representatives  of  the  People  had  in  originating  all  Bills  to  create 
a  Revenue:  It  was  opposed  by  others  on  the  Principle  that,  in  a 
Government  of  this  Nature  flowing  from  the  People  without  any 
Hereditary  rights  existing  in  either  Branch  of  the  Legislature,  the 
public  Good  might  require,  and  the  Senate  ought  to  possess  powers 
coexistive  in  this  particular  with  the  House  of  Representatives. 
The  Larger  States  hoped  for  an  advantage  by  confirming  this  privi- 
ledge to  that  Branch  where  their  numbers  predominated,  and  it 
ended  in  a  compromise  by  which  the  Lesser  States  obtained  a  power 
of  amendment  in  the  Senate  —  The  Negative  given  to  the  President 
underwent  an  amendment,  and  was  finally  restored  to  its  present 
form,  in  the  hope  that  a  Revision  of  the  Subject  and  the  objections 
offered  against  it  might  contribute  in  some  instances  to  perfect 


APPENDIX  A,    CXLVIa  I49 

those  regulations  that  inattention  or  other  motives  had  at  first  ren- 
dered imperfect  — 

S  8.  The  power  given  to  Congress  to  lay  taxes  contains  nothing 
more  than  is  comprehended  in  the  Spirit  of  the  eigth  article  of  the 
Confederation.  To  prevent  any  Combination  of  States,  Duties,  Im- 
posts and  Excises  shall  be  equal  in  all,  and  if  such  a  Duty  is  laid  on 
foreign  Tonage  as  to  give  an  advantage  in  the  first  instance  to  the 
Eastern  States,  it  will  operate  as  a  bounty  to  our  own  Shipbuilders. 
If  an  oppressive  Act  should  be  obtained  to  the  prejudice  of  the 
Southern  States,  it  will  always  be  subject  to  be  regulated  by  a  Ma- 
jority, and  would  be  repealed  as  soon  as  felt.  That  at  most  it  could 
prevail  no  longer  than  'till  that  Jealousy  should  be  awakened  which 
must  have  Slept  when  it  passed,  and  which  could  never  prevail  but 
under  a  supposed  Combination  of  the  President  and  the  two  Houses 
of  the  Legislature. 

S.  9.  Convention  were  anxious  to  procure  a  perpetual  decree 
against  the  Importation  of  Slaves;  but  the  Southern  States  could 
not  be  brought  to  consent  to  it  —  All  that  could  possibly  be  oI>- 
tained  was  a  temporary  regulation  which  the  Congress  may  vary 
hereafter. 

Public  Safety  may  require  a  supension  of  the  Ha:  Corpus  in 
cases  of  necessity:  when  those  cases  do  not  exist,  the  virtuous  Citi- 
zen will  ever  be  protected  in  his  opposition  to  power,  'till  corruption 
shall  have  obliterated  every  sense  of  Honor  &  Virtue  from  a  Brave 
and  free  People.  Convention  have  also  provided  against  any  direct 
or  Capitation  Tax  but  according  to  an  equal  proportion  among  the 
respective  States:  This  was  thought  a  necessary  precaution  though 
it  was  the  idea  of  every  one  that  government  would  seldom  have 
recourse  to  direct  Taxation,  and  that  the  objects  of  Commerce 
would  be  more  than  Sufficient  to  answer  the  common  exigencies  of 
State  and  should  further  supplies  be  necessary,  the  power  of  Congress 
would  not  be  exercised  while  the  respective  States  would  raise  those 
supplies  in  any  other  manner  more  suitable  to  their  own  inclinations 
—  That  no  Duties  shall  be  laid  on  Exports  or  Tonage,  on  Vessells 
bound  from  one  State  to  another  is  the  effect  of  that  attention  to 
general  Equality  that  governed  the  deliberations  of  Convention. 
Hence  unproductive  States  cannot  draw  a  revenue  from  productive 
States  into  the  Public  Treasury,  nor  unproductive  States  be  ham- 
pered in  their  Manufactures  to  the  emolument  of  others.  When 
the  Public  Money  is  lodged  in  its  Treasury  there  can  be  no  regula- 
tion more  consistant  with  the  Spirit  of  Economy  and  free  Govern- 
ment that  it  shall  only  be  drawn  forth  under  appropriation  by  Law 
and  this  part  of  the  proposed  Constitution  could  meet  with  no  oppo- 


150     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

sition  as  the  People  who  give  their  Money  ought  to  know  in  what 
manner  it  is  expended. 

That  no  Titles  of  Nobility  shall  be  granted  by  the  United  States 
will  preserve  it  is  hoped,  the  present  Union  from  the  Evils  of  Aris- 
tocracy. 

S:  10.  It  was  contended  by  many  that  the  State  sought  to  be 
permitted  to  Emit  Bills  of  Credit  where  their  local  Circumstances 
might  require  it  without  prejudice  to  the  obligations  arising  from 
private  Contracts;  but  this  was  overruled  by  a  vast  Majority  as 
the  best  Security  that  could  be  given  for  the  Public  faith  at  home 
and  the  extension  of  Commerce  with  Foreigners. 

Article  the  2nd. 

S:  1st.  The  Election  of  the  President  according  to  the  Report  of 
the  Committee  of  Detail  was  intended  to  have  been  by  ballot  of 
both  Houses;  to  hold  his  appointment  for  Seven  Years,  and  not  be 
Capable  to  be  reelected;  but  this  mode  gave  an  undue  infiuance  to 
the  large  States,  and  paved  the  way  to  faction  and  Corruption  — 
all  are  guarded  against  by  the  present  method,  as  the  most  exalted 
Characters  can  only  be  Known  throughout  the  whole  Union  —  His 
power  when  elected  is  check'd  by  the  Consent  of  the  Senate  to  the 
appointment  of  Officers,  and  without  endangering  Liberty  by  the 
junction  of  the  Executive  and  Legislative  in  this  instance. 

Article  the  3rd. 

S:  1st.  The  judicial  power  of  the  United  States  underwent  a  full 
investigation  —  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  Detail  the  observations  that 
were  delivered  on  that  Subject  —  The  right  of  tryal  by  Jury  was 
left  open  and  undefined  from  the  difficulty  attending  any  limitation 
to  so  valuable  a  priviledge,  and  from  the  persuasion  that  Congress 
might  hereafter  make  provision  more  suitable  to  each  respective  State 

—  To  suppose  that  mode  of  Tryal  intended  to  be  abolished  would  be 
to  Suppose  the  Representatives  in  Convention  to  act  Contrary  to 
the  Will  of  their  Constituents,  and  Contrary  to  their  own  Interest. 

Thus  Mr.  Speaker  I  have  endeavour'd  to  give  this  Honorable 
House  the  best  information  in  my  power  on  this  important  Subject 

—  Many  parts  of  this  proposed  Constitution  were  warmly  opposed, 
other  parts  it  was  found  impossible  to  reconcile  to  the  Qashing 
Interest  of  diflFerent  States  —  I  myself  could  not  approve  of  it 
throughout,  but  I  saw  no  prospect  of  getting  a  better  —  the  whole 
however  is  the  result  of  that  spirit  of  Amity  which  directed  the  wishes 
of  all  for  the  general  good,  and  where  those  Sentiments  govern  it 
will  meet  I  trust,  with  a  Kind  and  Cordial  reception. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXLVli  I5I 

CXLVU.    Luther  Martin   before  the  Maryland  House  of 

Representatives.^ 

- ,    „      ,  Maryland  Novr.  29th.  1787.  — 

Mr.  Speaker. 

When  I  join'd  the  Convention  I  found  that  Mr.  Randolph  had 
laid  before  that  Body  certain  propositions  for  their  consideration, 
and  that  Convention  had  entered  into  many  Resolutions,  respecting 
their  manner  of  conducting  the  Business  one  of  which  was  that 
seven  States  might  proceed  to  Business,  and  therefore  four  States 
composing  a  Majority  of  seven,  might  eventually  give  the  Law  to 
the  whole  Union.  Different  instructions  were  given  to  Members 
of  different  States  —  The  Delegates  from  Delaware  were  instructed 
not  to  infringe  their  Local  Constitution  —  others  were  prohibited 
their  assent  to  any  duty  in  Commerce:  Convention  enjoined  all 
to  secrecy;  so  that  we  had  no  opportunity  of  gaining  information 
by  a  Correspondence  with  others;  and  what  was  still  more  incon- 
venient extracts  from  their  Journals  were  prohibited  even  for  our 
own  information  —  It  must  be  remembered  that  in  forming  the 
Confederacy  the  State  of  Virginia  proposed,  and  obstinately  con- 
tended (tho  unsupported  by  any  other)  for  representation  according 
to  Numbers:  and  the  second  resolve  now  brought  forward  by  an 
Honourable  Member  from  that  State  was  formed  in  the  same  spirit 
that  characteriz'd  its  representatives  in  their  endeavours  to  increase 
its  powers  and  influence  in  the  Federal  Government.  These  Views 
in  the  larger  States,  did  not  escape  the  observation  of  the  lesser  and 
meetings  in  private  were  formed  to  counteract  them:  the  subject 
however  was  discussM  with  coolness  in  Convention,  and  hopes  were 
formed  that  interest  might  in  some  points  be  brought  to  Yield  to 
reason,  or  if  not,  that  at  all  events  the  lesser  States  were  not  pre- 
cluded from  introducing  a  different  System;  and  particular  Gentle- 
men were  industriously  employed  in  forming  such  a  System  at 
those  periods  in  which  Convention  were  not  sitting. 

At  length  the  Committee  of  Detail  brought  forward  their  Resolu- 
tions which  gave  to  the  larger  States  the  same  inequality  in  the  Senate 
that  they  now  are  proposed  to  have  in  the  House  of  Representatives 
—  Virginia,  Pennsylvania  and  Massachusetts  would  have  one  half  — 
all  the  Officers  and  even  the  President  were  to  be  chosen  by  the  Legis- 
lative: so  that  these  three  States  might  have  usurped  the  whole 
power.  The  President  would  always  have  been  from  one  of  the 
laiger  States  and  so  chosen  to  have  an  absolute  negative,  not  only 
on  the  Laws  of  Congress  but  also  on  the  Laws  of  each  respective 

^  See  CXX.VI<i,  note  i.  This  document  represents  an  earlier  stage  of  Martin's 
Genuine  Information  (CLVIII). 


152      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

State  in  the  Union.  Should  the  representation  from  the  other 
States  be  compleat,  and  by  a  Miracle  ten  States  be  so  united  as 
upon  any  occasion  to  procure  a  Majority;  yet  the  President  by  his 
Negative  might  defeat  the  best  intentions  for  the  public  good.  Such 
Government  would  be  a  Government  by  a  Junto  and  bind  hand  and 
foot  all  the  other  States  in  the  Union  On  this  occasion  the  House 
will  please  to  remember  that  Mr.  Bo  was  in  the  Chair,  and  Gen- 
eral Washington  and  the  Venerable  Franklin  on  the  floor,  and  led 
by  State  influence,  neither  of  them  objected  to  this  System,  but  on 
the  Ojntrary  it  seemed  to  meet  their  warm  and  cordial  approbation. 
—  I  revere  those  worthy  Personages  as  much  as  any  man  can  do, 
but  I  could  not  compliment  them  by  a  Sacrafice  of  the  trust  reposed 
in  me  by  this  State  by  acquiescing  in  their  opinion.  Then  it  was 
Mr.  Speaker  that  those  persons  who  were  labouring  for  the  general 
good,  brought  forward  a  different  System  —  The  absence  of  Mr. 
McHenry  unhappily  left  Maryland  with  only  two  representatives, 
and  they  differed:  New  Hampshire  Delegates  were  also  absent. 
Mr.  Patterson  from  Jersey  introduced  this  new  System,  by  which 
it  was  proposed,  that  the  Laws  of  the  Confederacy  should  be  the 
Laws  of  each  State,  and  therefore  the  State  Judiciaries  to  have 
Cognizance  in  the  first  instance  and  the  Federal  Courts  to  have  an 
Apelant  Jurisdiction  only  — 

The  first  measure  that  took  place  on  the  Jersey  System  was  to 
pass  a  vote  not  to  receive  it  —  Three  parties  now  appeared  in  Con- 
vention; one  were  for  abolishing  all  the  State  Governments;  an- 
other for  such  a  Government  as  would  give  an  influence  to  particular 
States  —  and  a  third  party  were  truly  Federal,  and  acting  for  gen- 
eral Equallity  —  They  were  for  considering,  reforming  and  amending 
the  Federal  Government,  from  time  to  time  as  experience  might 
point  out  its  imperfections,  'till  it  could  be  made  competent  to  every 
exigence  of  State,  and  afford  at  the  same  time  ample  security  to 
Liberty  and  general  Welfare.  But  this  scheme  was  so  opposite  to 
the  views  of  the  other  two,  that  the  Monarchical  party  finding  little 
chance  of  succeeding  in  their  wishes  joined  the  others  and  by  that 
measure  plainly  shewed  they  were  endeavouring  to  form  such  a 
Government  as  from  its  inequality  must  bring  in  time  their  System 
forward,  or  at  least  much  nearer  in  practice  than  it  could  otherwise 
be  obtained  — 

When  the  principles  of  opposition  were  thus  formed  and  brought 
forward  by  the  2d.  S:  respecting  the  manner  of  representation,  it 
was  urged  by  a  Member  of  Pennsylvania,  that  nothing  but  necessity 
had  induced  the  larger  States  to  give  up  in  forming  the  Confed- 
eracy,  the   Equality  of   Representation   according   to   numbers  — 


APPENDIX   A,    CXLVli  1 53 

That  all  goveraments  flowed  from  the  People  and  that  their  happi- 
ness being  the  end  of  governments  they  ought  to  have  an  equal 
Representation.  On  the  contrary  it  was  urged  by  the  unhappy 
Advocates  of  the  Jersey  System  that  all  people  were  equally  Free, 
and  had  an  equal  Voice  if  they  could  meet  in  a  general  Assembly 
of  the  whole.  But  because  one  Man  was  stronger  it  afforded  no  rea- 
son why  he  might  injure  another,  nor  because  ten  leagued  together, 
they  should  have  the  power  to  injure  five;  this  would  destroy  all 
equallity.  That  each  State  when  formed,  was  in  a  State  of  Nature 
as  to  others,  and  had  the  same  rights  as  Individuals  in  a  State  of 
Nature  —  If  the  State  Government  had  equal  Authority,  it  was  the 
same  as  if  Individuals  were  present,  because  the  State  Governments 
originated  and  flowed  from  the  Individuals  that  compose  the  State, 
and  the  Liberty  of  each  State  was  what  each  Citizen  enjoyed  in 
his  own  State  and  no  inconvenience  had  yet  been  experienced  from 
the  inequality  of  representation  in  the  present  Federal  Government. 
Taxation  and  representation  go  hand  and  hand,  on  the  principle 
alone  that,  none  should  be  taxed  who  are  not  represented;  But  as 
to  the  Quantum,  those  who  possess  the  property  pay  only  in  pro- 
portion to  the  protection  they  receive  —  The  History  of  all  Nations 
and  sense  of  Mankind  shew,  that  in  all  former  Confederacies  every 
State  had  an  equal  voice.  Moral  History  points  out  the  necessity 
that  each  State  should  vote  equally  —  In  the  Cantons  of  Switzer- 
land those  of  Bene  &  Lucerne  have  more  Territory  than  all  the  others, 
yet  each  State  has  an  equal  voice  in  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Congress  in  forming  the  Confederacy  adopted  this  rule  on  the  prin- 
ciple of  Natural  right  —  Virginia  then  objected.  This  Federal 
Government  was  submitted  to  the  consideration  of  the  Legislatures 
of  the  respective  States  and  all  of  them  proposed  some  amendments; 
but  not  one  that  this  part  should  be  altered.  Hence  we  are  in  pos- 
session of  the  General  Voice  of  America  on  this  subject.  When 
bafiled  by  reason  the  larger  States  possitively  refused  to  yield  — 
the  lesser  refused  to  confederate,  and  called  on  their  opponents  to 
declare  that  security  they  could  give  to  abide  by  any  plan  or  form 
of  Government  that  could  now  be  devised.  The  same  reasons  that 
now  exist  to  abolish  the  old,  might  be  urged  hereafter  to  overthrow 
the  New  Government,  and  as  the  methods  of  reform  prescribed  by 
the  former  were  now  utterly  disregarded,  as  little  ceremony  might 
be  used  in  discarding  the  latter  —  It  was  further  objected  that  the 
large  States  would  be  continually  increasing  in  numbers,  and  con- 
sequently their  influence  in  the  National  Assembly  would  increase 
also:  That  their  extensive  Territories  were  guaranteed  and  we  might 
be  drawn  out  to  defend  the  enormous  extent  of  those  States,  and 


154      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

encrease  and  establish  that  power  intended  in  time  to  enslave  our- 
selves —  Threats  were  thrown  out  to  compel  the  lesser  States  to 
confederate  —  They  were  told  this  would  be  the  last  opportunity 
that  might  offer  to  prevent  a  Dissolution  of  the  Union,  that  once 
dissolve  that  Band  which  held  us  together  and  the  lesser  States 
had  no  security  for  their  existence,  even  for  a  moment  —  The  lesser 
States  threatened  in  their  turn  they  they  would  not  lay  under  the 
imputation  of  refusing  to  confederate  on  equitable  conditions;  they 
threatened  to  publish  their  own  offers  and  the  demands  of  others, 
and  to  appeal  to  the  World  in  Vindication  of  their  Conduct. 

At  this  period  there  were  eleven  States  represented  in  Conven- 
tion on  the  question  respecting  the  manner  of  appointing  Delegates 
to  the  House  of  Representatives  —  Massachusetts,  Pensylvania, 
Virginia,  North  Carolina,  South  Carolina  and  Georgia  adopted  it 
as  now  handed  to  the  consideration  of  the  People.  —  Georgia  now 
insignificant,  with  an  immense  Territory,  looked  forward  to  future 
power  and  Aggrandizement,  Connecticut,  New  York,  Jersey,  and 
Delaware  were  against  the  Measure  and  Maryland  was  unfortunately 
divided  —  On  the  same  question  respecting  the  Senate,  perceiving 
the  lesser  States  would  break  up  Convention  altogether,  if  the  influ- 
ence of  that  branch  was  likewise  carried  against  them,  the  Dele- 
gates of  Georgia  differed  in  sentiment  not  on  principle  but  on  expedi- 
ency, and  fearing  to  lose  every  thing  if  they  persisted,  they  did  not 
therefore  vote  being  divided.  Massachusetts,  Pensylvania,  Vir- 
ginia, North  Carolina,  and  South  Carolina  were  in  the  affirmative, 
and  New  York,  Connecticut,  Jersey,  Delaware  &  Maryland  were 
in  the  Negative.  Every  thing  was  now  at  a  stand  and  little  hopes 
of  agreement,  the  Delegates  of  New  York  had  left  us  determined  not 
to  return,  and  to  hazard  every  possible  evil,  rather  than  to  Yield 
in  that  particular;  when  it  was  proposed  that  a  conciliating  Commit- 
tee should  be  formed  of  one  member  from  each  State  —  Some  Mem- 
bers possitively  refused  to  lend  their  names  to  this  measure  others 
compromised,  and  agreed  that  if  the  point  was  relinquished  by  the 
larger  States  as  to  the  Senate  —  they  would  sign  the  proposed  Con- 
stitution and  did  so,  not  because  they  approved  it  but  because  they 
thought  something  ought  to  be  done  for  the  Public  —  Neither  Gen- 
eral Washington  nor  Franklin  shewed  any  disposition  to  relinquish 
the  superiority  of  influence  in  the  Senate.  I  now  proposed  Con- 
vention should  adjourn  for  consideration  of  the  subject,  and  re- 
quested leave  to  take  a  Copy  of  their  proceedings,  but  it  was  denied, 
and  the  Avenue  thus  shut  to  information  and  reflection  — 


APPENDIX  A,    CXLVli  155 

Article  ist. 

S:  I8t.  A  Government  consisting  of  two  Branches  advocated  by 
some  was  opposed  by  others  —  That  a  perfect  Government  neces- 
sarily requiring  a  Check  over  them  did  not  require  it  over  States  and 
History  could  furnish  no  instance  of  such  a  second  branch  in  Federal 
Govemmts  —  The  seperate  States  are  competent  to  the  Govern- 
ment of  Individuals  and  a  Government  of  States  ought  to  be  Federal^ 
and  which  the  object  of  calling  Convention,  and  not  to  establish 
a  National  Government.  It  begins  We  the  People  —  And  the  powers 
are  made  to  flow  from  them  in  the  first  instance.  That  in  Federal 
Governments  an  equal  voice  in  each  State  is  essential,  as  being  all 
in  a  State  of  Nature  with  respect  to  each  other.  Whereas  the  only 
figure  in  this  Constitution  that  has  any  resemblance  to  a  federal  one, 
is  the  equality  of  Senate  —  but  the  4th  Section  gives  the  power  to 
Congress  to  strike  out,  at  least  to  render  Nugatory  this,  the  most 
valuable  part  of  it.  It  cannot  be  supposed  that  any  State  would 
refuse  to  send  Representatives,  when  they  would  be  bound  whether 
they  sent  Deputies  or  not,  and  if  it  was  intended  to  relate  to  the 
cases  of  Insurrection  or  Invasion,  why  not  by  express  words  confine 
the  power  to  these  objects? 

S:  6.  By  this  Article  the  Senators  when  elected  are  made  independant 
of  the  State  they  represent.  They  are  to  serve  Six  Years,  to  pay 
themselves  out  of  the  General  Treasury,  and  are  not  paid  by  the 
State,  nor  can  be  recalled  for  any  misconduct  or  sacrafice  of  the  Inter- 
est of  their  State  that  they  make  before  the  expiration  of  that  period. 
They  are  not  only  Legislative,  but  make  a  part  of  the  Executive, 
which  all  wise  Governments  have  thought  it  essential  to  keep  seper- 
ated.  They  are  the  National  Council;  and  none  can  leave  their 
private  concerns  and  their  Homes  for  such  a  period  and  consent 
to  such  a  service,  but  those  who  place  their  future  views  on  the 
emoluments  flowing  from  the  General  Government  —  Tho'  a  Senator 
cannot  be  appointed  to  an  office  created  by  himself,  He  may  to  any 
that  has  been  antecedently  established;  and  by  removing  Old  Officers, 
to  new  Offices,  their  places  may  be  occupied  by  themselves  and  thus 
the  Door  opened  to  evade  and  infringe  the  Constitution.  When 
America  was  under  the  British  Dominion  every  matter  was  conducted 
within  a  narrow  Circle  in  the  Provincial  Government,  greatly  to 
the  ease  and  convenience  of  the  People.  The  Habits  thus  acquired 
are  opposed  to  extensive  Governments,  and  the  extent  of  this,  as  a 
National  one,  cannot  possibly  be  ever  carried  into  effect  — 
Sf  2.  Slaves  ought  never  to  be  considered  in  Representation,  because 
they  are  Property.    They  afford  a  rule  as  such  in  Taxation;   but 


156     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

are  Citizens  intrusted  in  the  General  Government,  no  more  than 
Cattle,  Horses,  Mules  or  Asses;  and  a  Gentleman  in  Debate  very 
pertinently  observed  that  he  would  as  soon  enter  into  Compacts, 
with  the  Asses  Mules,  or  Horses  of  the  Ancient  Dominion  as  with 
their  Slaves  —  When  there  is  power  to  raise  a  revenue  by  direct 
Taxation,  each  State  ought  to  pay  an  equal  Ratio;  Whereas  by  taxing 
Commerce  some  States  would  pay  greatly  more  than  others. 
S:  7.  It  was  contended  that  the  Senate  derived  their  powers  from 
the  People  and  therefore  ought  to  have  equal  priviledges  to  the 
Representation  That  it  would  remove  all  ground  for  contest  about 
originating  Money  Bills,  what  Bills  were  so  or  not,  and  how  far 
amendments  might  be  made,  but  nothing  more  could  be  obtained  from 
the  power  of  the  larger  States  on  that  subject  than  what  appears  in  the 
proposed  Constitution.  In  Great  Britain  the  King  having  Heredi- 
tary rights,  and  being  one  of  the  three  Estates  that  compose  the 
Legislature  has  obtained  a  Voice  in  the  passage  of  all  Acts  that  bear 
the  title  of  laws.  But  the  Executive  here  have  no  distinct  rights, 
nor  is  their  President  likely  to  have  more  understanding  than  the 
two  Branches  of  the  Legislature.  Additional  weight  is  thus  un- 
necessarily given  to  the  large  States  who  voting  by  numbers  will 
cohere  to  each  other,  or  at  least  amon^  themselves,  and  thus  easily 
carry,  or  defeat  any  measure  that  requires X^ajority  of  two  thirds. 
$:  8:  By  the  word  Duties  in  this  Section  is  meant  Stamp  Duties. 
This  power  may  be  exercised  to  any  extent,  but  it  has  likewise  this 
dangerous  tendency  it  may  give  the  Congress  power  by  establishing 
duties  on  all  Contracts  to  decide  on  cases  of  that  nature,  and  ulti- 
mately draw  the  dicision  of  the  Federal  Courts,  which  will  have 
sufficient  occupation  by  the  other  powers  given  in  this  Section. 
They  are  extensive  enough  to  open  a  sluice  to  draw  the  very  blood 
from  your  Veins.  They  may  lay  direct  Taxes  by  assessment,  Poll 
Tax,  Stamps,  Duties  on  Commerce,  and  excise  everything  else  — 
all  this  to  be  collected  under  the  direction  of  their  own  Officers, 
and  not  even  provided  that  they  shall  be  Inhabitants  of  the  respec- 
tive States  whey  they  are  to  act,  and  for  which  many  reasons  will 
not  be  the  case:  and  should  any  Individual  dare  to  dispute  the  con- 
duct of  an  Excise  Man,  ransacking  his  Cellars  he  may  be  hoisted 
into  the  Federal  Court  from  Georgia  to  vindicate  his  just  rights, 
or  to  be  punished  for  his  impertinence.  In  vain  was  it  urged  that 
the  State  Courts  ought  to  be  competent  to  the  decision  of  such 
cases:  The  advocates  of  this  System  thought  State  Judges  would 
be  under  State  influence  and  therefore  not  sufficiently  independant. 
But  this  is  not  all,  they  would  either  trust  your  Juries  for  altbo 
matters  of  Fact  are  triable  by  Juries  in  the  Inferior  Courts  the  Judges 


APPENDIX  A,    CXLVli  157 

of  the  Supreme  Court  on  appeal  are  to  decide  on  Law  and  fact  both. 
In  this  Manner  Mr.  Speaker  our  rights  are  to  be  tried  in  all  disputes 
between  the  Citizens  of  one  State  and  another,  between  the  Citizens 
and  Foreigners,  and  between  the  Citizens  and  these  Revenue  Officers 
of  the  General  Government.  As  to  other  cases  the  Constitution 
is  silent,  and  it  is  very  doubtful  if  we  are  to  have  the  priviledge 
of  Tryal  by  Jury  at  all,  where  the  cause  originates  in  the  Su- 
preme Court.  Should  the  power  of  these  Judiciaries  be  incompetent 
to  carry  this  extensive  plan  into  execution,  other,  and  more  certain 
Engines  of  power  are  supplied  by  the  standing  Army  —  unlimited 
as  to  number  or  its  duration,  in  addition  to  this  Government  has  the 
entire  Command  of  the  Militia,  and  may  call  the  whole  Militia  of 
any  State  into  Action,  a  power,  which  it  was  vainly  urged  ought 
never  to  exceed  a  certain  proportion.  By  organizing  the  Militia 
Congress  have  taken  the  whole  power  from  the  State  Governments; 
and  by  neglecting  to  do  it  and  encreasing  the  Standing  Army,  their 
power  will  increase  by  those  very  means  that  will  be  adopted  and 
urged  as  an  ease  to  the  People. 

Nothing  could  add  to  the  mischevious  tendency  of  this  system 
more  than  the  power  that  is  given  to  suspend  the  Act  of  Ha:  Corpus 
—  Those  who  could  not  approve  of  it  urged  that  the  power  over 
the  Ha:  Corpus  ought  not  to  be  under  the  influence  of  the  General 
Government.  It  would  give  them  a  power  over  Citizens  of  par- 
ticular States  who  should  oppose  their  encroachments,  and  the 
inferior  Jurisdictions  of  the  respective  States  were  fully  competent 
to  Judge  on  this  important  priviledge;  but  the  Allmighty  power 
of  deciding  by  a  call  for  the  question,  silenced  all  opposition  to  the 
measure  as  it  too  frequently  did  to  many  others. 
S:  9.  By  this  Article  Congress  will  obtain  unlimitted  power  over  all 
the  Ports  in  the  Union  and  consequently  acquire  an  influence  that 
may  be  prejudicial  to  general  Liberty.  It  was  sufficient  for  all  the 
purposes  of  General  Government  that  Congress  might  lay  what 
Duties  they  thought  proper,  and  those  who  did  not  approve  the 
extended  power  here  given,  contended  that  the  Establishment  of 
the  Particular  ports  ought  to  remain  with  the  Government  of  the 
respective  States;  for  if  Maryland  for  instance  should  have  occasion 
to  oppose  the  Encroachments  of  the  General  Government  —  Con- 
gress might  direct  that  all  Vessels  coming  into  this  Bay,  to  enter 
and  clear  at  Norfolk,  and  thereby  become  as  formidable  to  this 
State  by  an  exercise  of  this  power,  as  they  could  be  by  the  Military 
arrangements  or  Civil  Judiciaries.  That  the  same  reason  would 
not  apply  in  prohibiting  the  respective  States  from  laying  a  Duty 
on  Exports,  as  applied  to  that  regulation  being  exercised  by  Congress: 


rsS  KECURDS*  OF  THE  FEDERAn  CONVENTION 

in  the  latter  case  a  revenue  would  be  drawn  from  the  productive 

States  to  the  General  Treasury,  to  t[?]  ease  of  the  unproductive, 

but  particular  States  might  be  desirous  by  this  method  to  contribute 

to  the  support  of  their  Local  Government  or  for  the  Encouragement 

of  their  Manufactures. 

Article  2nd. 

S:  1st.  A  Variety  of  opinion  prevailed  on  this  Article.  Mr.  Hamil- 
ton of  New  York  wanted  the  President  to  be  appointed  by  the  Sen- 
ate, others  by  both  Branches,  others  by  the  People  at  large  —  others 
that  the  States  as  States  ought  to  have  an  equal  voice  —  The  larger 
States  wanted  the  appointment  according  to  numbers  —  those  who 
were  for  a  one  Genl.  Government,  and  no  State  Governments,  were 
for  a  choice  by  the  People  at  large,  and  the  very  persons  who  would 
not  trust  the  Legislature  to  vote  by  States  in  the  Choice,  from  a 
fear  of  Corruption,  yet  contended  nevertheless  for  a  Standing  Army, 
and  before  this  point  was  finally  adjusted  I  had  left  the  Conven- 
tion. 

As  to  the  Vice  President,  the  larger  States  have  a  manifest 
influence  and  will  always  have  him  of  their  choice.  The  power 
given  to  these  persons  over  the  Army,  and  Navy,  is  in  truth  formid- 
able, but  the  power  of  Pardon  is  still  more  dangerous,  as  in  all  acts 
of  Treason,  the  very  offence  on  which  the  prosecution  would  possibly 
arise,  would  most  likely  be  in  favour  of  the  Presidents  own  power.  — 

Some  would  gladly  have  given  the  appointment  of  Ambassadors 
and  Judges  to  the  Senate,  some  were  for  vesting  this  power  in  the 
Legislature  by  joint  ballot^  as  being  most  likely  to  know  the  Merrit 
of  Individuals  over  this  extended  empire.  But  as  the  President 
is  to  nominate,  the  person  chosen  must  be  ultimately  his  choice  and 
he  will  thus  have  an  army  of  civil  officers  as  well  as  Military  —  If 
he  is  guilty  of  misconduct  and  impeached  for  it  by  the  first  branch 
of  the  Legislature  he  must  be  tried  in  the  second,  and  if  he  keeps 
an  interest  in  the  large  States,  he  will  always  escape  punishment  — 
The  impeachment  can  rarely  come  from  the  Second  branch,  who 
are  his  Council  and  will  be  under  his  influence. 
S:  3rd.  It  was  highly  reasonable  that  Treason  against  the  United 
States  should  be  defined;  resistence  in  some  cases  is  necessary  and 
a  Man  might  be  a  Traitor  to  the  General  Government  in  obeying 
the  Laws  of  his  own  State,  a  Clause  was  therefore  proposed  that 
wherever  any  State  entered  into  Contest  with  the  General  Govemmt. 
that  during  such  Civil  War,  the  general  Law  of  Nations,  as  between 
Independant  States  should  be  the  governing  rule  between  them; 
and  that  no  Citizen  in  such  case  of  the  said  State  should  be  deemed 
guilty  of  Treason,  for  acting  against  the  General  Government,  in 


APPENDIX  A,    CXLVII  1 59 

Conformity  to  the  Laws  of  the  State  of  which  he  was  a  member: 

but  this  was  rejected. 

Article  6th. 

The  ratification  of  this  Constitution  is  so  repugnent  to  the  Terms 
on  which  we  are  all  bound  to  amend  and  alter  the  former,  that  it 
became  a  matter  of  surprise  to  many  that  the  proposition  could 
meet  with  any  countanance  or  support.  Our  present  Constitution 
expressly  directs  that  all  the  States  must  agree  before  it  can  be 
dissolved;  but  on  the  other  hand  it  was  contended  that  a  Majority 
ought  to  govern  —  That  a  dissolution  of  the  Federal  Government 
did  not  dissolve  the  State  Constitutions  which  were  paramount  the 
Confederacy.  That  the  Federal  Government  being  formed  out 
of  the  State  Governments  the  People  at  large  have  no  power  to  inter- 
fere in  the  Federal  Constitution  Nor  has  the  State  or  Federal  Govern- 
ment any  power  to  confirm  a  new  Institution.  That  this  Government 
if  ratified  and  Established  will  be  immediately  from  the  People^ 
paramount  the  Federal  Constitution  and  operate  as  a  dissolution  of  it. 
Thus  Mr.  Speaker,  I  have  given  to  this  Honorable  House  such 
information,  as  my  situation  enabled  me  to  do,  on  the  Subject  of 
this  proposed  Constitution.  If  I  have  spoke  with  freedom,  I  have 
done  no  more  than  I  did  in  Convention.  I  have  been  under  no 
influence  from  the  expectation  of  ever  enjoying  any  Office  under  it, 
and  would  gladly  yield  what  little  I  have  saved  by  Industry,  and  the 
Emoluments  of  my  profession  to  have  been  able  to  present  it  to 
the  Public  ^  in  [a]  diflFerent  form.  I  freely  [own,  that  it  did  not] 
meet    my    approbation,    and    [  ]    this    House    will    do 

[  ]  believe  that  [I  have  conducted  myself  ] 

freeman  and  a  faithful  servant  of  the  [  ] 

to  the  best  of  my  Judgement  for  the  Gen  [  J 


CXLVII.    James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.* 

November  30,  1787. 

Mr.  Wilson.  It  is  objected  that  the  number  of  members  in  the 
House  of  Representatives  is  too  small.  This  is  a  subject  somewhat 
embarrassing,  and  the  convention  who  framed  the  article  felt  the 
enbarrassment.    .  .  . 

The  convention  endeavored  to  steer  a  middle  course,  and  when 
we  consider  the  scale  on  which  they  formed  their  calculation,  there 
are  strong  reasons  why  the  representation  should  not  have  been 
larger.     On  the  ratio  that  they  have  fixed,  of  one  for  every  thirty 

*  A  part  of  the  MS.  is  torn  off.    Words  in  brackets  are  partly  legible. 

'  McMaster  and  Stone,  Pennsylvania  and  the  Federal  ConsMution,  287-289. 


l6o      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

thousand,  and  according  to  the  generally  received  opinion  of  the 
increase  of  population  throughout  the  United  States,  the  present 
number  of  their  inhabitants  will  be  doubled  in  twenty-five  years, 
and  according  to  that  progressive  proportion,  and  the  rado  of  one 
member  for  thirty  thousand  inhabitants,  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives will,  within  a  single  century,  consist  of  more  than  six  hundred 
members.  Permit  me  to  add  a  further  observation  on  the  numbers 
—  that  a  large  number  is  not  so  necessary  in  this  case  as  in  the  cases 
of  state  legislatures.  In  them  there  ought  to  be  a  representation 
sufficient  to  declare  the  situation  of  every  county,  town  and  dis- 
trict, and  if  of  every  individual,  so  much  the  better,  because  their 
legislative  powers  extend  to  the  particular  interest  and  convenience 
of  each;  but  in  the  general  government  its  objects  are  enumerated, 
and  are  not  confined  in  their  causes  or  operations  to  a  county,  or 
even  to  a  single  state.  No  one  power  is  of  such  a  nature  as  to  require 
the  minute  knowledge  of  situations  and  circumstances  necessary 
in  state  governments  possessed  of  general  legislative  authority. 
These  were  the  reasons.  Sir,  that  I  believe  had  influence  on  the  con- 
vention to  agree  to  the  number  of  thirty  thousand;  and  when  the 
inconveniences  and  conveniences  on  both  sides  are  compared,  it 
would  be  difficult  to  say  what  would  be  a  number  more  unexcep- 
tionable.   

CXLVIIL   James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.^ 

December  3,  1787. 
Much  fault  has  been  found  with  the  mode  of  expression  used  ; 

in  the  first  clause  of  the  ninth  section  of  the  first  article.  I  believe 
I  can  assign  a  reason  why  that  mode  of  expression  was  used,  and  why 
the  term  slave  was  not  directly  admitted  in  this  constitution: — 
.  .  .  These  were  the  very  expressions  used  in  1783,  and  the  fate 
of  this  recommendation  was  similar  to  all  their  [Congress]  other 
resolutions.  It  was  not  carried  into  effect,  but  it  was  adopted  by 
no  fewer  than  eleven  out  of  thirteen  States;  ...  It  was  natural. 
Sir,  for  the  late  convention  to  adopt  the  mode  after  it  had  been  agreed 
to  by  eleven  states,  and  to  use  the  expression  which  they  found  had 
been  received  as  unexceptionable  before.  With  respect  to  the 
clause  restricting  Congress  from  prohibiting  the  migration  or  impor- 
tation of  such  persons  as  any  of  the  States  now  existing  shall  think 
proper  to  admit,  prior  to  the  year  1808,  the  honorable  gentleman 
says  that  this  clause  is  not  only  dark,  but  intended  to  grant  to  Con- 
gress, for  that  time,  the  power  to  admit  the  importation  of  slaves. 

^McMastcr  and  Stone,  Pennsylvania  and  the  Federal  Constitution^  311-311, 


APPENDIX  A,   CXLIX  l6l 

No  such  thing  was  intended;  but  I  will  tell  you  what  was  done, 
and  it  gives  me  high  pleasure  that  so  much  was  done.  Under  the 
present  confederation,  the  States  may  admit  the  importation  of 
slaves  as  long  as  they  please;  but  by  this  article,  after  the  year  1808, 
the  Congress  will  have  power  to  prohibit  such  importation,  notwith- 
standing the  disposition  of  any  State  to  the  contrary.  I  consider 
this  as  laying  the  foundation  for  banishing  slavery  out  of  this  coun- 
try; and  though  the  period  is  more  distant  than  I  could  wish,  yet 
it  will  produce  the  same  kind,  gradual  change  which  was  pursued 
in  Pennsylvania.^  It  is  with  much  satisfaction  I  view  this  power 
in  the  general  government,  whereby  they  may  lay  an  interdiction 
on  this  reproachful  trade.  But  an  immediate  advantage  is  also 
obtained,  for  a  tax  or  duty  may  be  imposed  on  such  importation 
not  exceeding  ten  dollars  for  each  person;  and  this,  Sir,  operates 
as  a  partial  prohibition.  It  was  all  that  could  be  obtained.  I  am 
sorry  it  was  no  more;  but  from  this  I  think  there  is  reason  to  hope 
that  yet  a  few  years,  and  it  will  be  prohibited  altogether.  And  in 
the  meantime,  the  new  States  which  are  to  be  formed  will  be  under 
the  control  of  Congress  in  this  particular,  and  slaves  will  never 
be  introduced  amongst  them.  The  gentleman  says  that  it  is  un- 
fortunate in  another  point  of  view:  it  means  to  prohibit  the  intro- 
duction of  white  people  from  Europe,  as  this  tax  may  deter  them  from 
coming  amongst  us.  A  little  impartiality  and  attention  will  dis- 
cover the  care  that  the  convention  took  in  selecting  their  language. 
The  words  are,  the  migration  or  importation  of  such  persons,  etc., 
shall  not  be  prohibited  by  Congress  prior  to  the  year  1808,  but  a  tax 
or  duty  may  be  imposed  on  such  importation.  It  is  observable 
here  that  the  term  migration  is  dropped  when  a  tax  or  duty  is 
mentioned,  so  that  Congress  have  power  to  impose  the  tax  only  on 
those  imported.  

CXLIX.    James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.* 

December  4,  1787. 
A  good  deal  has  already  been  said,  concerning  a  bill  of  rights; 
I  have  stated,  according  to  the  best  of  my  recollection,  all  that 
passed  in  convention  relating  to  that  business.  Since  that  time,  I 
have  spoken  with  a  gentleman,  who  has  not  only  his  memory,  but 
full  notes,  that  he  had  taken  in  that  body;  and  he  assures  me,  that 
upon  this  subject  no  direct  motion  was  ever  made  at  all;  and  cer- 
tainly, before  we  heard  this  so  violently  supported  out  of  doors, 
some  pains  ought  to  have  been  taken  to  have  tried  its  fate  within; 

»  See  CCCXXVII  note  below. 

'  McMaster  and  Stone,  Pennsylvania  and  the  Federal  Constitution,  313-338. 


l62      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

but  the  truth  is,  a  bill  of  rights  would,  as  I  have  mentioned  already, 
have  been  not  only  unnecessary,  but  improper.     .  .  . 

.  .  .  Enumerate  all  the  rights  of  men!  I  am  sure,  Sir,  that  no 
gentleman  in  the  late  convention  would  have  attempted  such  a 
thing.    .  •  . 

I  say,  Sir,  that  it  was  the  design  of  this  system,  to  take  some 
power  from  the  State  government,  and  to  place  it  in  the  general 
government.  It  was  also  the  design,  that  the  people  should  be  ad- 
mitted to  the  exercise  of  some  powers  which  they  did  not  exercise 
under  the  present  confederation.  It  was  thought  proper  that  the 
citizens,  as  well  as  the  States,  should  be  represented;  .  .  . 

...  I  am  not  a  blind  admirer  of  this  system.  Some  of  the  powers 
of  the  senators  are  not  with  me  the  favorite  parts  of  it,  but  as  they 
stand  connected  with  other  parts,  there  is  still  security  against  the 
efforts  of  that  body:  it  was  with  great  difficulty  that  security  was 
obtained,  and  I  may  risk  the  conjecture,  that  if  it  is  not  now  accepted, 
it  never  will  be  obtained  again  from  the  same  States.  Though  the 
senate  was  not  a  favorite  of  mine,  as  to  some  of  its  powers,  yet  it 
was  a  favorite  with  a  majority  in  the  Union,  and  we  must  submit 
to  that  majority,  or  we  must  break  up  the  Union.  It  is  but  fair 
to  repeat  those  reasons,  that  weighed  with  the  convention;  perhaps 
I  shall  not  be  able  to  do  them  justice,  but  yet  I  will  attempt  to  show, 
why  additional  powers  were  given  to  the  senate,  rather  than  to  the 
house  of  representatives.  These  additional  powers,  I  believe,  are, 
that  of  trying  impeachments,  that  of  concurring  with  the  President 
in  making  treaties,  and  that  of  concurring  in  the  appointment  of 
officers.  These  are  the  powers  that  are  stated  as  improper.  It 
is  fortunate,  that  in  the  exercise  of  every  one  of  them,  the  Senate 
stands  controlled;  if  it  is  that  monster  which  it  said  to  be,  it  can 
only  show  its  teeth,  it  is  unable  to  bite  or  devour.  With  regard 
to  impeachments,  the  senate  can  try  none  but  such  as  will  be  brought 
before  them  by  the  house  of  representatives. 

The  senate  can  make  no  treaties;  they  can  approve  of  none 
unless  the  President  of  the  United  States  lay  it  before  them.  With 
regard  to  the  appointment  of  officers,  the  President  must  nominate 
before  they  can  vote.  So  that  if  the  powers  of  either  branch  are 
perverted,  it  must  be  with  the  approbation  of  some  one  of  the  other 
branches  of  government:  thus  checked  on  one  side,  they  can  do  no 
one  act  of  themselves. 

.  .  •  Sir,  I  confess  I  wish  the  powers  of  the  senate  were  not 
as  they  are.  I  think  it  would  have  been  better  if  those  powers 
had  been  distributed  in  other  parts  of  the  system.     .  .  . 


APPENDIX  A,   CL  163 

CL.   James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.' 

December  7,  1787 

...  I  shall  beg  leave  to  premise  one  remark,  that  the  convention, 
when  they  formed  this  system,  did  not  expect  they  were  to  deliver 
themselves,  their  relations  and  their  posterity,  into  the  hands  of 
such  men  as  are  described  by  the  honorable  gentlemen  in  oppo- 
sition. They  did  not  suppose  that  the  legislature,  under  this  con- 
stitution, would  be  an  association  of  demons.  They  thought  that 
a  proper  attention  would  be  given  by  the  citizens  of  the  United 
States,  at  the  general  election,  for  members  to  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives; they  also  believed  that  the  particular  states  would  nomi- 
nate as  good  men  as  they  have  heretofore  done,  to  represent  them 
in  the  Senate.    .  .  . 

The  Convention  thought  further  (for  on  this  very  subject,  there 
will  appear  caution,  instead  of  imprudence,  in  their  transactions) 
they  considered,  that  if  suspicions  are  to  be  entertained,  they  are 
to  be  entertained  with  regard  to  the  objects  in  which  government 
have  separate  interests  and  separate  views  from  the  interests  and 
views  of  the  people.  To  say  that  officers  of  government  will  oppress, 
when  nothing  can  be  got  by  oppression,  is  making  an  inference, 
bad  as  human  nature  is,  that  cannot  be  allowed.    .  .  . 

Whenever  the  general  government  can  be  a  party  against  a 
citizen,  the  trial  is  guarded  and  secured  in  the  constitution  itself, 
and  therefore  it  is  not  in  its  power  to  oppress  the  citizen.  In  the 
case  of  treason,  for  example,  though  the  prosecution  is  on  the  part 
of  the  United  States,  yet  the  Congress  can  neither  define  nor  try 
the  crime.  If  we  have  recourse  to  the  history  of  the  different  gov- 
ernments that  have  hitherto  subsisted,  we  shall  find  that  a  very 
great  part  of  their  tyranny  over  the  people  has  arisen  from  the  exten- 
sion of  the  definition  of  treason.    .  .  . 

.  .  .  Sensible  of  this,  the  Convention  has  guarded  the  people 
against  it,  by  a  particular  and  accurate  definition  of  treason. 

It  is  very  true  that  trial  by  jury  is  not  mentioned  in  civil  cases; 
but  I  take  it,  that  it  is  very  improper  to  infer  from  hence,  that  it 
was  not  meant  to  exist  under  this  government.  Where  the  people 
are  represented  —  where  the  interest  of  government  cannot  be  sepa- 
rate from  that  of  the  people,  (and  this  is  the  case  in  trial  between 
citizen  and  citizen)  the  power  of  making  regulations  with  respect 
to  the  mode  of  trial,  may  certainly  be  placed  in  the  legislature;  for 
I  apprehend  that  the  legislature  will  not  do  wrong  in  an  instance 
from  which  they  can  derive  no  advantage.    These  were  not  all  the 

^  McMaster  and  Stone,  Pennsyhania  and  the  Federal  Constitutiony  351-353. 


164      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

reasons  that  influenced  the  convention  to  leave  it  to  the  future 
Congress  to  make  regulations  on  this  head. 

By  the  constitution  of  the  different  States,  it  will  be  found  that 
no  particular  mode  of  trial  by  jury  could  be  discovered  that  would 
suit  them  all.  The  manner  of  summoning  jurors,  their  qualifications, 
of  whom  they  should  consist,  and  the  course  of  their  proceedings, 
are  all  different,  in  the  different  States;  and  I  presume  it  will  be 
allowed  a  good  general  principle,  that  in  carrying  into  effect  the 
laws  of  the  general  government  by  the  judicial  department,  it  will 
be  proper  to  make  the  regulations  as  agreeable  to  the  habits  and 
wishes  of  the  particular  States  as  possible;  and  it  is  easily  discovered 
that  it  would  have  been  impracticable,  by  any  general  regulation, 
to  have  given  satisfaction  to  all.  We  must  have  thwarted  the  cus- 
tom of  eleven  or  twelve  to  have  accommodated  any  one.  Why  do 
this,  when  there  was  no  danger  to  be  apprehended  from  the  omission.^ 
We  could  not  go  into  a  particular  detail  of  the  manner  that  would 
have  suited  each  State. 

Time,  reflection,  and  experience,  will  be  necessary  to  suggest 
and  mature  the  proper  regulations  on  this  subject;  time  and  experi- 
ence were  not  possessed  by  the  convention;  they  left  it  therefore 
to  be  particularly  organized  by  the  legislature  —  the  representatives 
of  the  United  States  —  from  time  to  time,  as  should  be  most  eligible 
and  proper.  

CLI.   The  Landholder  [Oliver  Ellsworth],  VI.^ 

Just  at  the  close  of  the  Convention,  whose  proceedings  in  general 
were  zealously  supported  by  Mr.  Mason,  he  moved  for  a  clause  that 
no  navigation  act  should  ever  be  passed  but  with  the  consent  of 
two-thirds  of  both  branches;  urging  that  a  navigation  act  might 
otherwise  be  passed  excluding  foreign  bottoms  from  carrying  Ameri- 
can produce  to  market,  and  throw  a  monopoly  of  the  carrying  busi- 
ness into  the  hands  of  the  eastern  states  who  attend  to  navigation, 
and  that  such  an  exclusion  of  foreigners  would  raise  the  freight  of 
the  produce  of  the  southern  states,  and  for  these  reasons  Mr.  Mason 
would  have  it  in  the  power  of  the  southern  states  to  prevent  any 
navigation  act.  This  clause,  as  unequal  and  partial  in  the  extreme 
to  the  southern  states,  was  rejected;  because  it  ought  to  be  left 
on  the  same  footing  with  other  national  concerns,  and  because  no 
state  would  have  a  right  to  complain  of  a  navigation  act  which  should 
leave  the  carrying  business  equally  open  to  them  all.  Those  who 
preferred  cultivating  their  lands  would  do  so;    those  who  chose  to 

^  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  the  Constitution,  i6i~i66.    First  printed  in  the  Connecticut 
Couranty  December  10,  1787. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLII  1 65 

navigate  and  become  carriers  would  do  that.  The  loss  of  this  ques- 
tion determined  Mr.  Mason  against  the  signing  the  doings  of  the 
convention,  and  is  undoubtedly  among  his  reasons  as  drawn  for  the 
southern  states;  but  for  the  eastern  states  this  reason  would  not 
do.^  .    .    . 

There  is  to  be  no  ex  post  facto  laws.  This  was  moved  by  Mr. 
Gerry  and  supported  by  Mr.  Mason,  and  is  exceptional  only  as  being 
unnecessary;  for  it  ought  not  to  be  presumed  that  government  will 
be  so  tyrannical,  and  opposed  to  the  sense  of  all  modem  civilians, 
as  to  pass  such  laws:   if  they  should,  they  would  be  void. 

The  general  Legislature  is  restrained  from  prohibiting  the  further 
importation  of  slaves  for  twenty  odd  years.  .  .  .  His  objections  arc 
.  .  .  that  such  importations  render  the  United  States  weaker,  more 
vulnerable,  and  less  capable  of  defence.  To  this  I  readily  agree, 
and  all  good  men  wish  the  entire  abolition  of  slavery,  as  soon  as  it 
can  take  place  with  safety  to  the  public,  and  for  the  lasting  good 
of  the  present  wretched  race  of  slaves.  The  only  possible  step 
that  could  be  taken  towards  it  by  the  convention  was  to  fix  a  period 
after  which  they  should  not  be  imported.    .  .  . 

To  make  the  objections  the  more  plausible,  they  are  called  The 
objections  of  the  Hon.  George  Mason^  etc.  —  They  may  possibly  be 
his,  but  be  assured  they  were  not  those  made  in  convention,  and 
being  directly  against  what  he  there  supported  in  one  instance  ought 
to  caution  you  against  giving  any  credit  to  the  rest;  his  violent 
opposition  to  the  powers  given  congress  to  regulate  trade,  was  an 
open  decided  preference  of  all  the  world  to  you.    .  .  • 

It  may  be  asked  how  I  came  by  my  information  respecting  Col. 
Mason's  conduct  in  convention,  as  the  doors  were  shut?  To  this 
I  answer,  no  delegate  of  the  late  convention  will  contradict  my  asser- 
tions, as  I  have  repeatedly  heard  them  made  by  others  in  presence 
of  several  of  them,  who  could  not  deny  their  truth. 


CLII.   James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.* 

December  11,  1787. 

The  singular  unanimity  that  has  attended  the  whole  progress  of 

their  business  will  in  the  minds  of  those  considerate  men,  who  have 

not  had  opportunity  to  examine  the  general  and  particular  interest 

of  their  country,  prove  to  their  satisfaction  that  it  is  an  excellent 

*  According  to  Mr.  P.  L.  Ford:  "The  paragraph  containing  Mason's  objection 
to  the  mere  majority  power  of  Congress  to  regulate  commerce,  was  included  in  all  the 
southern  papers,  but  omitted  in  copies  furnished  to  the  papers  north  of  Maryland." 
See  also  CLV  below. 

*  McMaster  and  Stone,  Pennsylvania  and  the  Federal  ConstitiUion,  383-399. 


l66      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

constitution,  and  worthy  to  be  adopted,  ordained  and  established, 
by  the  people  of  the  United  States. 

.  .  •  We  were  told  some  days  ago,  by  the  honorable  gentleman 
from  Westmoreland  (Mr.  Findley,)  when  speaking  of  this  system  and 
its  objects,  that  the  convention,  no  doubt,  thought  they  were  form- 
ing a  compact  or  contract  of  the  greatest  importance.  Sir,  I  confess 
I  was  much  surprised  at  so  late  a  stage  of  the  debate  to  hear  such 
principles  maintained.  It  was  matter  of  surprise  to  see  the  great 
leading  principle  of  this  system  still  so  very  much  misunderstood. 
"The  convention,  no  doubt,  thought  they  were  forming  *a  contract!'" 
I  cannot  answer  for  what  every  member  thought;  but  I  believe  it 
cannot  be  said  that  they  thought  they  were  making  a  contract, 
because  I  cannot  discover  the  least  trace  of  a  compact  in  that  sys- 
tem.^ There  can  be  no  compact  unless  there  are  more  parties  than 
one.  It  is  a  new  doctrine  that  one  can  make  a  compact  with  him- 
self. "The  convention  were  forming  compacts!"  With  whom?  I 
know  no  bargains  that  were  made  there.  I  am  unable  to  conceive 
who  the  parties  could  be.  The  State  governments  make  a  bargain 
with  one  another;  that  is  the  doctrine  that  is  endeavored  to  be 
established  by  gentlemen  in  opposition;  their  State  sovereignties 
wish  to  be  represented!  But  far  other  were  the  ideas  of  this  conven- 
tion, and  far  other  are  those  conveyed  in  the  system  itself. 

...  I  do  not  think,  that  in  the  powers  of  the  Senate,  the  distinc- 
tion is  marked  with  so  much  accuracy  as  I  wished,  and  still  wish;  .  .  . 

...  Neither  the  President  nor  the  Senate  solely,  can  complete 
a  treaty;  they  are  checks  upon  each  other,  and  are  so  balanced  as 
to  produce  security  to  the  people. 

I  might  suggest  other  reasons,  to  add  weight  to  what  has  al- 
ready been  offered,  but  I  believe  it  is  not  necessary;  yet  let  me,  how- 
ever, add  one  thing,  the  Senate  is  a  favorite  with  many  of  the  States, 
and  it  was  with  difficulty  that  these  checks  could  be  procured;  it 
was  one  of  the  last  exertions  of  conciliation,  in  the  late  convention, 
that  obtained  them. 

.  .  .  The  manner  of  appointing  the  President  of  the  United  States, 
I  find,  is  not  objected  to,  therefore  I  shall  say  little  on  that  point. 
But  I  think  it  well  worth  while  to  state  to  this  house,  how  little  the 
difficulties,  even  in  the  most  difficult  part  of  this  system,  appear  to 
have  been  noticed  by  the  honorable  gentlemen  in  opposition.  The 
Convention,  Sir,  were  perplexed  with  no  part  of  this  plan  so  much 
as  with  the  mode  of  choosing  the  President  of  the  United  States. 


*  Yet  \^l8on  had  said  on  November  24  (see  CXLII  above),  "Providence  has  de- 
signed us  for  an  united  people,  under  one  great  political  compact." 


APPENDIX  A,    CLIII  1 67 

For  my  own  part,  I  think  the  most  unexceptionable  mode,  next 
after  the  one  prescribed  in  this  Constitution,  would  be  that  prac- 
tised by  the  eastern  States,  and  the  State  of  New  York;  yet  if  gentle- 
men object,  that  an  eighth  part  of  our  country  forms  a  district  too 
large  for  elections,  how  much  more  would  they  object,  if  it  was 
extended  to  the  whole  Union!  On  this  subject,  it  was  the  opinion 
of  a  great  majority  in  Convention,  that  the  thing  was  impracticable; 
other  embarrassments  presented  themselves. 

Was  the  president  to  be  appointed  by  the  legislature?  Was  he 
to  continue  a  certain  time  in  office,  and  afterwards  was  he  to  become 
ineligible? 

...  To  avoid  the  inconveniences  already  enumerated,  and 
many  others  that  might  be  suggested,  the  mode  before  us  was 
adopted.  

CLIII.   James  Wilson  in  the  Pennsylvania  Convention.* 

December  11,  1787.  (afternoon). 

We  have  been  told,  Sir,  by  the  honorable  member  from  Fayette 
(Mr.  Smilie,)  "that  the  trial  by  jury  was  intended  to  be  given  up, 
and  the  civil  law  was  intended  to  be  introduced  into  its  place,  in  civil 
cases." 

Before  a  sentiment  of  this  kind  was  hazarded,  I  think.  Sir,  the 
gentleman  ought  to  be  prepared  with  better  proofs  in  its  support, 
than  any  he  has  yet  attempted  to  produce.  It  is  a  charge,  Sir,  not 
only  unwarrantable,  but  cruel;  the  idea  of  such  a  thing,  I  believe, 
never  entered  into  the  mind  of  a  single  member  of  that  convention; 
and  I  believe  further,  that  they  never  suspected  there  would  be 
found  within  the  United  States,  a  single  person  that  was  capable 
of  making  such  a  charge.    .  .  . 

Let  us  apply  these  observations  to  the  objects  of  the  judicial 
department,  under  this  constitution.  I  think  it  has  been  shewn 
already,  that  they  all  extend  beyond  the  bounds  of  any  particular 
State;  but  further,  a  great  number  of  the  civil  causes  there  enumer- 
ated, depend  either  upon  the  law  of  nations,  or  the  marine  law,  that 
is,  the  general  law  of  mercantile  countries.  Now,  Sir,  in  such  cases, 
I  presume  it  will  not  be  pretended  that  this  mode  of  decision  ought 
to  be  adopted;  for  the  law  with  regard  to  them  is  the  same  here  as 
in  every  other  country,  and  ought  to  be  administered  in  the  same 
manner.  There  are  instances  in  which  I  think  it  highly  probable, 
that  the  trial  by  jury  will  be  found  proper;  and  if  it  is  highly  prob- 
able that  it  will  be  found  proper,  is  it  not  equally  probable  that  it 


^  McMaster  and  Stone,  Pennsykania  and  the  Federal  Constitution^  pp.  403-405. 


l68      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

will  be  adopted?  There  may  be  causes  depending  between  citizens 
of  different  States,  and  as  trial  by  jury  is  known  and  regarded  in 
all  the  States,  they  will  certainly  prefer  that  mode  of  trial  before 
any  other.  The  Congress  will  have  the  power  of  making  proper 
regulations  on  this  subject,  but  it  was  impossible  for  the  convention 
to  have  gone  minutely  into  it;  but  if  they  could,  it  must  have  been 
very  improper,  because  alterations,  as  I  observed  before,  might  have 
been  necessary;  and  whatever  the  convention  might  have  done 
would  have  continued  unaltered,  unless  by  an  alteration  of  the 
Constitution.  Besides,  there  was  another  difficulty  with  regard  to 
this  subject.  In  some  of  the  States  they  have  courts  of  chancery 
and  other  appellate  jurisdictions,  and  those  States  are  as  attached 
to  that  mode  of  distributing  justice,  as  those  that  have  none  are  to 
theirs.  

CLIV.    The  Landholder  [Oliver  Ellsworth],  VII.* 

I  have  often  admired  the  spirit  of  candour,  liberality,  and  justice, 
with  which  the  Convention  began  and  completed  the  important  object 
of  their  mission.  .  .  .  

CLV.    James  Madison  to  George  Washington.* 

New  York  Deer.  20.  1787. 
Tricks  of  this  sort  are  not  uncommon  with  the  Enemies  of  the 
new  Constitution.  Col.  Mason's  objections  were  as  I  am  told  pub- 
lished in  Boston  mutilated  of  that  which  pointed  at  the  regulation 
of  Commerce.'  Doer  Franklins  concluding  speech  which  you  will 
meet  with  in  one  of  the  papers  herewith  inclosed,  is  both  mutilated 
&  adulterated  so  as  to  change  both  the  form  &  the  spirit  of  it. 


CLVI.    Ezra  Stiles:  Diary.* 

[December]  21.  [1787].  Mr.  Baldwin  was  one  of  the  Continental 
Convention  at  Philada  last  Summer.  He  gave  me  an  Acct  of  the 
whole  Progress  in  Convention.  It  appeared  that  they  were  pretty 
unanimous  in  the  followg  Ideas,  viz.  I.  In  a  firm  foederal  Govern- 
ment. 2.  That  this  shd  be  very  popular  or  stand  on  the  People 
at  large.  3.  That  their  Object  shd  comprehend  all  Things  of  com- 
mon foederal  Concern  &  wc  individual  States  could  not  determine 
or  enforce.     4.  That  the  Jurisdictions  &  Govt  of  each  State  shd  be 

*  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  the  Constitution,  167;  first  printed  in  the  Connecticut 
Courant,  December  17,  1787. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  416-417. 

*  See  CLI  and  note  2  above. 

*  Liierary  Diary  of  Eva  StiUs,  III,  293-295. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVI  169 

left  intire  &  preserved  as  inviolate  as  possible  consistent  with  the 
coercive  Subordina  for  preservg  the  Union  with  Firmness.  5.  That 
the  present  foederal  Govt  was  inadequate  to  this  End.  6.  That  a 
certain  Portion  or  Deg.  of  Dominion  as  to  Laws  and  Revenue^  as 
well  as  to  Treaties  with  foreign  Nations,  War  &  Armies,  was  necessy 
to  be  ceded  by  individual  States  to  the  Authory  of  the  National 
Council.  7.  That  the  National  Council  shd  consist  of  two  Branches 
viz,  a  Senate,  Si  Representatives.  That  the  last  shd  be  a  local 
Representa  apportioned  to  the  Property  &  Number  of  Inhabitants, 
as  far  as  practicable.  That  this  shd  be  the  governg  Idea.  And  yet 
that  the  Distinction  of  States  shd  be  preserved  in  the  House  of  Repre- 
senta as  well  as  in  the  Senate.  8.  That  the  Senate  stand  on  the 
Election  &  Distinction  of  States  as  at  present  in  Congress,  and  tho' 
like  the  Representa  be  in  some  measure  proportioned  to  the  No  of 
Inhab.  yet  that  besides  this  the  Vote  in  Senate  shd  be  by  States, 
tho'  in  the  House  of  Representa  the  Vote  shd  be  by  Plurality  of 
Members  present  indeed  but  not  by  States  as  States.  Hereby  two 
things  are  secured,  one,  that  the  People  at  large  shall  be  efficaciously 
represented,  the  other  that  the  States  as  separate  States  be  as  also 
efficaciously  represented.  9.  That  these  two  Branches  combined 
into  one  Republican  Body  be  the  supreme  Legislature  &  become 
vested  with  the  Sovereignty  of  the  Confederacy;  &  have  powers 
of  Govt  &  Revenue  adequate  to  these  Ends.  10.  As  to  a  President, 
it  appeared  to  the  Opin.  of  Convention,  that  he  shd  be  a  Character 
respectable  by  the  Nations  as  well  as  by  the  foederal  Empire.  To 
this  End  that  as  much  Power  shd  be  given  him  as  could  be  consistently 
with  guardg  against  all  possibility  of  his  ascending  in  a  Tract  of 
years  or  Ages  to  Despotism  &  absolute  Monarchy:  —  of  which  all 
were  cautious.  Nor  did  it  appear  that  any  Members  in  Conven- 
tion had  the  least  Idea  of  insidiously  layg  the  Founda  of  a  future 
Monarchy  like  the  European  or  Asiatic  Monarchies  either  antient 
or  modem.  But  were  unanimously  guarded  &  firm  against  every 
Thing  of  this  ultimate  Tendency.  Accordinly  they  meant  to  give 
considerable  Weight  as  Supreme  Executive,  but  fixt  him  dependent 
on  the  States  at  large,  and  at  all  times  impeachable.  10.  They 
vested  Congress  thus  modified  with  the  Power  of  an  adequate  Rev- 
enue, by  Customs  on  Trade,  Excise  and  direct  Taxation  by  Authory 
of  Congress;  as  well  as  with  the  Army,  Navy  &  makg  War  &  Peace. 
These  were  delicate  Things,  on  which  all  felt  soUicitous  &  yet  all 
were  unanimously  convinced  that  they  were  necessary.  11.  They 
were  unanimous  also  in  the  Expedy  &  Necessy  of  a  supreme  judiciary 
Tribunal  of  universal  Jurisdiction  —  in  Controversies  of  a  legal 
Nature  between  States  —  Revenue  —  &  appellate  Causes  between 


170      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

subjects  of  foreign  or  difiFerent  States.  12.  The  Power  of  appoint- 
ing Judges  &  Officers  of  the  supreme  Judiciary  to  be  in  the  Senate. 

These  &  other  general  8c  commandg  Ideas  the  Members  found 
themselves  almost  unanimous  in.  The  Representa  would  feel  for 
the  Interests  of  their  respective  local  Representations:  and  the 
Senate  must  feel,  not  for  particular  local  Districts  but  a  Majority 
of  the  States  or  the  Universal  Interest. 

After  some  Discourses,  it  was  proposed  that  any  &  all  the  Members 
shd.  draught  their  Ideas.  These  were  all  bro't  in  &  examd  &  as  ap- 
proved, entered,  until  all  were  satisfied  they  had  gone  through.  Then 
they  reduced  these  to  one  Sheet  (written)  of  Articles  or  Members  of  the 
Constitution.  These  they  considered  afresh,  sometimes  in  Committee 
of  the  Whole,  &  sometimes  in  Convention,  with  subjoyned  Alterations 
&  Additions  until  August;  when  they  adjourned  a  few  Weeks  leavg  all 
to  be  digested  by  a  Committee  of  5  Messrs  Sherman,  Elsworth, 

On  the  Return  of  Adjournt  the  whole  Digest  was  printed  and 
every  Member  entered  his  Remarks,  Altera  &  Corrections.  These 
again  were  committed  to  a  Committee  of  one  Member  of  each  State 
of  wc  Mr.  Baldwin  one.  This  maturated  the  whole.  Finally  a 
Committee  of  5  viz.  Mess.  Dr  Johnson,  Govemeur  Morris.  Wilson, 

These  reduced  it  to  the  form  in  which  it  was  published. 

Messrs  Morris  8c  Wilson  had  the  chief  hand  in  the  last  Arrangt  & 
Composition.  This  was  completed  in  September.  By  this  Time 
several  Members  were  absent  party  Judge  Yates  of  Albany,  Mr. 
Wyth  of  Virginia,  Judge  Sherman  8c  Elsworth.  About  42  signed 
it.  Messrs  Mason  of  Virg.  8c  Gerry  of  Boston  8c  Gov.  Randolph 
refused.  Dr  Franklin  sd  he  did  not  entirely  approve  it  but,  tho't 
it  a  good  one,  did  not  know  but  he  shd.  hereafter  think  it  the  best, 
on  the  whole  was  ready  to  sign  it  &  wished  all  would  sign  it,  8c  wished 
all  would  sign  it,  &  that  it  shd  be  adopted  by  all  the  States. 

Dr  Franklins  Idea  that  the  American  Policy,  be  one  Branch 
only  or  Representative  Senate  of  one  Order,  proportioned  to  Number 
of  Inhab.  8c  Property  —  often  elected  — ,  with  a  President  assisted 
with  an  executive  Council:  but  this  last  have  nothg  to  do  in  Legis- 
lation 8c  Senatorial  Government.    Teste  Mr.  Baldwin. 


CLVII.    The  Landholder  [Oliver  Ellsworth],  VIII.* 

To  the  Hon.  Elbridge  Gerry,  Esquire. 
Sir, 
When  a  man  in  public  life  first  deviates  from  the  line  of  truth 

^  P.  L.  Ford,  Essay  J  on  the  Constitution,  172-175;  first  printed  in  the  Connecticut 
Courantf  December  24,  1787. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVII  I7I 

and  rectitude,  an  uncommon  degree  of  art  and  attention  becomes 
necessary  to  secure  him  from  detection  ....  his  first  leap  into  the 
region  of  treachery  and  falsehood  is  often  as  fatal  to  himself  as  it 
was  designed  to  be  to  his  country.  Whether  you  and  Mr.  Mason 
may  be  ranked  in  this  class  of  trangressors  I  pretend  not  to  deter- 
mine. Certain  it  is,  that  both  your  management  and  his  for  a  short 
time  before  and  after  the  rising  of  the  foederal  convention  impress 
us  with  a  favorable  opinion,  that  you  are  great  novices  in  the  arts 
of  dissimulation.  A  small  degree  of  forethought  would  have  taught 
you  both  a  much  more  successful  method  of  directing  the  rage  of 
resentment  which  you  caught  at  the  close  of  the  business  at  Phila- 
delphia, than  the  one  you  took.    .  .  . 

It  is  evident  that  this  mode  of  proceeding  would  have  been  well 
calculated  for  the  security  of  Mr.  Mason;  he  there  might  have 
vented  ...  his  sore  mortification  for  the  loss  of  his  favorite  motion 
respecting  the  navigation  act.    .  .  . 

You  will  doubtless  recollect  the  following  state  of  facts  —  if 
you  do  not,  every  member  of  the  convention  will  attest  them  —  that 
almost  the  whole  time  during  the  setting  of  the  convention,  and  until 
the  constitution  had  received  its  present  form,  no  man  was  more 
plausible  and  conciliating  upon  every  subject  than  Mr.  Gerry  —  he 
was  willing  to  sacrifice  every  private  feeling  and  opinion  —  to  con- 
cede every  state  interest  that  should  be  in  the  least  incompatible 
with  the  most  substantial  and  permanent  system  of  general  govern- 
ment—  that  mutual  concession  and  unanimity  were  the  whole 
burden  of  his  song;  and  although  he  originated  no  idea  himself, 
yet  there  was  nothing  in  the  system  as  it  now  stands  to  which  he 
had  the  least  objection  —  indeed,  Mr.  Gerry's  conduct  was  agree- 
ably surprising  to  all  his  acquaintance,  and  very  unlike  that  turbulent 
obstinacy  of  spirit  which  they  had  formerly  affixed  to  his  character. 
Thus  stood  Mr.  Gerry,  till,  toward  the  close  of  the  business,  he 
introduced  a  motion  respecting  the  redemption  of  the  old  Conti- 
nental Money  —  that  it  should  be  placed  upon  a  footing  with  other 
liquidated  securities  of  the  United  States.  As  Mr.  Gerry  was  sup- 
posed to  be  possessed  of  large  quantities  of  this  species  of  paper,  his 
motion  appeared  to  be  founded  in  such  barefaced  selfishness  and 
injustice,  that  it  at  once  accounted  for  all  his  former  plausibility 
and  concession,  while  the  rejection  of  it  by  the  convention  inspired 
its  author  with  the  utmost  rage  and  intemperate  opposition  to  the 
whole  system  he  had  formerly  praised.^    His  resentment  could  no 


*  For  Gerry's  reply  see  CLXII  below.    The  controversy  may  be  followed  farther 
in  CLXXV,  CLXXXIX-CXCII,  and  CXCIX. 


Hi 


172      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

more  than  embarrass  and  delay  the  completion  of  the  business  for  a 
few  days;  when  he  refused  signing  the  constitution  and  was  called  upon 
for  his  reasons.  These  reasons  were  committed  to  writing  by  one  of  his 
colleagues^  and  likewise  by  the  Secretary,  as  Mr.  Gerry  delivered  them. 
These  reasons  were  totally  different  from  those  which  he  has  published, 
neither  was  a  single  objection  which  is  contained  in  his  letter  to  the 
legislature  of  Massachusetts  ever  offered  by  him  in  convention.* 

Now  Mr.Gerry,  as  this  is  generally  known  to  be  the  state  of  facts, 
and  as  neither  the  reasons  which  you  publish  nor  those  retained  on  the 
Secretary's  files  can  be  supposed  to  have  the  least  affinity  to  truth,  or 
to  contain  the  real  motives  which  induced  you  to  withhold  your  name 
from  the  constitution,  it  appears  to  me  that  your  plan  was  not  judi- 
ciously contrived.  

CLVIII.    Luther  Martin:  Genuine  Information.' 

The  Genuine  Information,  delivered  to  the  Legislature  op 
the  State  of  Maryland,  relative  to  the  Proceedings  of 
THE  GeIyeral  Convention,  held  at  Philadelphia,  in  1787,  by 
LUTHER  MARTIN,  Esquire,  Attorney-General  of  Mary- 
land, AND  ONE  OP  THE  DELEGATES  IN  THE  SAID  CONVENTION. 

Mr.  Martin,  when  called  upon,  addressed  the  House  nearly 
as  follows: 

*  Probably  refers  to  King,  see  Records  of  September  15. 

'  Somewhat  too  sweeping  an  assertion  although  there  are  great  differences  between 
Gerry's  objections  in  Convention  on  September  15  and  those  embodied  in  his  letter  to 
the  Massachusetts  legislature.    See  Records  of  September  15,  and  CXXXIII  above. 

'Martin's  "Genuine  Information"  was  delivered  to  the  Maryland  legislature 
November  29,  1787.  It  was  first  printed  in  Dunlap's  Maryland  GaittU  and  Baltimore 
Advertiser,  December  28,  1787 — February  8, 1788.  It  was  prefaced  by  the  following 
note:  — 

•'Mr.  Hayes, 

It  was  the  wish  of  many  respectable  characters  both  in  the  House  of  Assembly, 

and  others,  that  the  information  received  from  the  Delegates  to  the  late  Convention, 

should  be  made  public  —  I  have  taken  some  pains,  to  collect  together,  the  substance 

of  the  information,  which  was  given  on  that  occasion  to  the  House  of  Delegates  by 

Mr.  Martin;  by  your  inserting  in  your  paper,  you  will  oblige.  .    _ 

A  Customer.' 

With  the  kind  assistance  of  Mr.  George  W.  McCreary,  Assistant  Secretary  and 
Librarian  of  the  Maryland  Historical  Society,  the  text  of  the  present  edition  has  been 
revised  so  as  to  correspond  to  the  document  as  it  was  first  printed. 

It  is  quite  evident  that  the  speech  delivered  was  revised  before  printing,  and  it  is 
important,  therefore,  to  compare  this  document  with  the  speech  as  reported  in  the 
legislative  proceedings  (see  above  CXLVI&). 

Because  of  the  length  of  the  document  Arabic  numerals  are  attached  to  the 
various  paragraphs  for  convenience  of  reference.  See  also  Appendix  A,  CCXXIII, 
CCCLVII,  CCCLXV,  CCCLXXVIII,  CCCXCII,  CCCXCVII. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  1 73 

[i]  Since  I  was  notified  of  the  resolve  of  this  Honorable  House, 
that  we  should  attend  this  day,  to  give  information  with  regard  to 
the  proceedings  of  the  late  convention,  my  time  has  necessarily 
been  taken  up  with  business,  and  I  have  also  been  obliged  to  make 
a  journey  to  the  Eastern  Shore.  These  circumstances  have  pre- 
vented me  from  being  as  well  prepared  as  I  could  wish,  to  give  the 
information  required.  However,  the  few  leisure  moments  I  could 
spare,  I  have  devoted  to  refreshing  my  memory,  by  looking  over  the 
papers  and  notes  in  my  possession;  and  shall,  with  pleasure,  to  the 
best  of  my  abilities,  render  an  account  of  my  conduct. 

[2]  It  was  not  in  my  power  to  attend  the  convention  immediately 
on  my  appointment.  I  took  my  seat,  I  believe,  about  the  eighth 
or  ninth  of  June.  I  found  that  Governor  Randolph,  of  Virginia, 
had  laid  before  the  convention  certain  propositions  for  their  con- 
sideration, which  have  been  read  to  this  House  by  my  honorable 
colleague,  and  I  believe  he  has  very  faithfully  detailed  the  substance 
of  the  speech  with  which  the  business  of  the  convention  was  opened; 
for,  though  I  was  not  there  at  the  time,  I  saw  notes  which  had  been 
taken  of  it. 

[3]  The  members  of  the  convention  from  the  States,  came  there 
under  different  powers,  The  greatest  number,  I  believe,  under 
powers  nearly  the  same  as  those  of  the  delegates  of  this  State.  Some 
came  to  the  convention  under  the  former  appointment,  authorising 
the  meeting  of  delegates  merely  to  regulate  trade.  Those  of  Delaware 
were  expressly  instructed  to  agree  to  no  system^  which  should  take  away 
from  the  States  that  equality  of  suffrage  secured  by  the  original  articles 
of  confederation.  Before  I  arrived,  a  number  of  rules  had  been 
adopted  to  regulate  the  proceedings  of  the  convention,  by  one  of 
which,  seven  States  might  proceed  to  business,  and  consequently 
four  States,  the  majority  of  that  number,  might  eventually  have 
agreed  upon  a  system,  which  was  to  affect  the  whole  Union.  By 
another^  the  doors  were  to  be  shuty  and  the  whole  proceedings  were  to 
be  kept  secret;  and  so  far  did  this  rule  extend,  that  we  were  thereby 
prevented  from  corresponding  with  gentlemen  in  the  different  States 
upon  the  subjects  under  our  discussion;  a  circumstance,  Sir,  which, 
I  confess,  I  greatly  regretted.  I  had  no  idea,  that  all  the  wisdom, 
integrity,  and  virtue  of  this  State,  or  of  the  others,  were  centred  in 
the  convention.  I  wished  to  have  corresponded  freely  and  confi- 
dentially with  eminent  political  characters  in  my  own  and  other 
States;  not  implicitly  to  be  dictated  to  by  them,  but  to  give  their 
sentiments  due  weight  and  consideration.  So  extremely  solicitous 
were  they,  that  their  proceedings  should  not  transpire,  that  the 
members  were  prohibited  even  from  taking  copies  of  resolutionsy  on 


174      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

which  the  convention  were  delibcratingy  or  extracts  of  any  kind  from 
the  journals^  without  formally  moving  for^  and  obtaining  permission^ 
by  a  vote  of  the  convention  for  that  purpose. 

[4]  You  have  heard^  Sir,  the  resolutions  which  were  brought 
forward  by  the  honorable  member  from  Virginia;  let  me  call  the 
attention  of  this  House  to  the  conduct  of  Virginia,  when  our  con- 
federation was  entered  into  —  That  State  then  proposed,  and  obsti- 
nately contended,  contrary  to  the  sense  of^  and  unsupported  by  the  other 
StateSy  for  an  inequality  of  suffrage  founded  on  numbers^  or  some  such 
scaUy  which  should  give  her,^  and  certain  other  States,  influence  in 
the  Union  over  the  rest.  Pursuant  to  that  spirit  which  then  char- 
acterized her^  and  uniform  in  her  conduct,  the  very  second  resolve, 
is  calculated  expressly  for  that  purpose,  to  give  her  a  representation 
proportioned  to  her  numbers^  as  if  the  want  of  that  was  the  principal 
defect  in  our  original  system,  and  this  alteration  the  great  means  of 
remedying  the  evils  we  had  experienced  under  our  present  govern- 
ment. 

[5]  The  object  of  Virginia^  and  other  large  StateSy  to  increase 
their  power  and  influence  over  the  others^  did  not  escape  observation; 
the  subject,  however,  was  discussed  with  great  coolness,  in  the  com- 
mittee of  the  whole  House  (for  the  convention  had  resolved  itself 
into  a  committee  of  the  whole,  to  deliberate  upon  the  propositions 
delivered  in  by  the  honorable  member  from  Virginia).  Hopes  were 
formed,  that  the  farther  we  proceeded  in  the  examination  of  the  reso- 
lutions, the  better  the  House  might  be  satisfied  of  the  impropriety 
of  adopting  them,  and  that  they  would  finally  be  rejected  by  a  ma- 
jority of  the  committee;  if,  on  the  contrary,  a  majority  should 
report  in  their  favor,  it  was  considered,  that  it  would  not  preclude 
the  members  from  bringing  forward  and  submitting  any  other  sys- 
tem to  the  consideration  of  the  convention;  and  accordingly,  while 
those  resolves  were  the  subject  of  discussion  in  the  committee  of 
the  whole  House,  a  number  of  the  members,  who  disapproved  them, 
were  preparing  another  system^  such  as  they  thought  more  conducive 
to  the  happiness  and  welfare  of  the  States,  The  propositions  originally 
submitted  to  the  convention  having  been  debated,  and  undergone 
a  variety  of  alterations  in  the  course  of  our  proceedings,  the  committee 
of  the  whole  House,  by  a  small  majority  agreed  to  a  report^  which  I  am 
l^^PPyj  Sir,  to  have  in  my  power  to  lay  before  you;  it  was  as  follows: 

[6]  "i.  Resolved,  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  committee,  that 
a  national  government  ought  to  be  established,  consisting  of  a  su- 
preme legislative,  judiciary,  and  executive. 


*  The  two  lines  following  were  omitted  in  the  original,  evidently  by  inadveitance. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  175 

"2.  That  the  legislative  ought  to  consist  of  two  branches. 

'^3.  That  the  members  of  the  first  branch  of  the  national  legis- 
lature ought  to  be  elected  by  the  people  of  the  several  States,  for 
the  term  of  three  years,  to  receive  fixed  stipends,  by  which  they  may 
be  compensated  for  the  devotion  of  their  time  to  public  service,  to 
be  paid  out  of  the  national  treasury,  to  be  ineligible  to  any  office 
established  by  a  particular  State,  or  under  the  authority  of  the  United 
States,  except  those  particularly  belonging  to  the  functions  of  the 
first  branch,  during  the  term  of  service,  and  under  the  national 
government,  for  the  space  of  one  year  after  its  expiration. 

''4.  That  the  members  of  the  second  branch  of  the  legislature 
ought  to  be  chosen  by  the  individual  legislatures;  to  be  of  the  age 
of  thirty  years  at  least;  to  hold  their  offices  for  a  term  sufficient  to 
insure  their  independency,  namely,  seven  years,  one  third  to  go  out 
biennially;  to  receive  fixed  stipends,  by  which  they  may  be  com- 
pensated for  the  devotion  of  their  time  to  public  service,  to  be  paid 
out  of  the  national  treasury;  to  be  ineligible  to  any  office  by  a  par- 
ticular State,  or  under  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  except 
those  peculiarly  belonging  to  the  functions  of  the  second  branch, 
during  the  term  of  service,  and  under  the  national  government,  for 
the  space  of  one  year  after  its  expiration. 

"5.  That  each  branch  ought  to  possess  the  right  of  originating 
acts. 

"6.  That  the  national  legislature  ought  to  be  empowered  to 
enjoy  the  legislative  rights  vested  in  Congress  by  the  confederation, 
and,  moreover^  to  legislate  in  all  cases  to  which  the  separate  States  are 
incompetent^  or  in  which  the  harmony  of  the  United  States  may  be 
interrupted^  by  the  exercise  of  individual  legislation;  to  negative  all 
laws  passed  by  the  severed  States^  contravening,  in  the  opinion  of 
the  legislature  of  the  United  States^  the  articles  of  union,  or  any 
treaties  subsisting  under  the  authority  of  the  Union. 

"7.  That  the  right  of  suffrage  in  the  first  branch  of  the  national 
legislature,  ought  not  to  be  according  to  the  rule  established  in  the  articles 
of  confederation^  but  according  to  some  equitable  rate  of  representa- 
tion, namely,  in  proportion  to  the  whole  number  of  white^  and  other 
free  citizens  and  inhabitants  of  every  age^  sex^  and  condition^  including 
those  bound  to  servitude  for  a  term  of  years y  and  three-fifths  of  all  other 
persons  not  comprehended  in  the  foregoing  description,  except 
Indians  not  paying  taxes  in  each  State. 

"8.  That  the  right  of  suffrage  in  the  second  branch  of  the  national 
legislature,  ought  to  be  according  to  the  rule  established  in  the  first. 

"9.  That  a  national  executive  be  instituted,  to  consist  of  a  single 
pcr9Qn,  tQ  bf  chosen  by  the  national  legislature  for  the  term  of  seven 


176      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

yearSy  with  power  to  carry  into  execution  the  national  laws,  to  appoint 
to  office  in  cases  not  otherwise  provided  for,  to  be  ineligible  a  second 
time,  and  to  be  removable  on  impeachment  and  conviction  of  mal- 
practice or  neglect  of  duty;  to  receive  a  fixed  stipend,  by  which  he 
may  be  compensated  for  the  devotion  of  his  time  to  public  service, 
to  be  paid  out  of  the  national  treasury. 

"10.  That  the  national  executive  shall  have  a  right  to  negative 
any  legislative  act  which  shall  not  afterwards  be  passed^  unless  by  two 
third  parts  of  each  branch  of  the  national  legislature. 

"11.  That  a  national  judiciary  be  established,  to  consist  of 
one  supreme  tribunal,  the  judges  of  which,  to  be  appointed  by  the 
second  branch  of  the  national  legislature,  to  hold  their  offices  during 
good  behaviour,  and  to  receive  punctually,  at  stated  times,  a  fixed 
compensation  for  their  services,  in  which  no  increase  or  diminution 
shall  be  made,  so  as  to  affect  the  persons  actually  in  ofiice  at  the 
time  of  such  increase  or  diminution. 

"i2.  That  the  national  legislature  be  empowered  to  appoint 
inferior  tribunals. 

''  13.  That  the  jurisdiction  of  the  na/tona/ judiciary  shall  extend  to 
cases  which  respect  the  collection  of  the  national  revenue;  cases  arising 
under  the  laws  of  the  United  States;  impeachments  of  any  national 
officer,  and  questions  which  involve  the  national  peace  and  ^harmony. 

''14.  Resolvedy  That  provision  ought  to  be  made  for  the  admis- 
sion of  States  lawfully  arising  within  the  limits  of  the  United  States, 
whether  from  a  voluntary  junction  of  government,  territory,  or 
otherwise,  with  the  consent  of  a  number  of  voices  in  the  national 
legislature  less  than  the  whole. 

"15.  Resolvedy  That  provision  ought  to  be  made  for  the  con- 
tinuance of  Congress,  and  their  authority  and  privileges,  until  a 
given  day  after  the  reform  of  the  articles  of  union  shall  be  adopted, 
and  for  the  completion  of  all  their  engagements. 

*^  16.  That  a  republican  constitution,  and  its  existing  laws,  ought 
to  be  guarantied  to  each  State  by  the  United  States. 

"17.  That  provision  ought  to  be  made  for  the  amendment  of 
the  articles  of  union  whensoever  it  shall  seem  necessary. 

"18.  That  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  powers, 
within  the  several  States,  ought  to  be  bound  by  oath  to  support 
the  articles  of  the  Union. 

"19.  That  the  amendments  which  shall  be  offered  to  the  con- 
federation by  this  convention,  ought,  at  a  proper  time  or  times,  after 
the  approbation  of  Congress,  to  be  submitted  to  an  assembly  or 
assemblies,  recommended  by  the  legislatures,  to  be  expressly  chosen 
by  the  people,  to  consider  and  decide  thereon. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  1 77 

[7]  These  propositions,  Sir,  were  acceded  to  by  a  majority  of  the 
members  of  the  committee;  —  a  system  by  which  the  large  States  were 
to  have  not  only  an  inequality  of  suffrage  in  the  first  branchy  but  also 
the  same  inequality  in  the  second  branchy  or  Senate.  However,  it 
was  not  designed  the  second  branch  should  consist  of  the  same 
number  as  the  first.  It  was  proposed  that  the  Senate  should  con- 
sist of  twenty-eight  members^  formed  on  the  following  scale;  Vir- 
ginia to  send  five,  Pennsylvania  and  Massachusetts  each  four.  South 
Carolina,  North  Carolina,  Maryland,  New  York,  and  Connecticut 
two  each,  and  the  States  of  New  Hampshire,  Rhode  Island,  Jersey, 
Delaware,  and  Georgia  each  of  them  one;  upon  this  plan,  the  three 
large  States,  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  and  Massachusetts,  would 
have  thirteen  senators  out  of  twenty-eighty  almost  one  half  of  the  whole 
number.  Fifteen  senators  were  to  be  a  quorum  to  proceed  to  busi- 
ness; those  three  States  would,  therefore,  have  thirteen  out  of  that 
quorum.  Having  this  inequality  in  each  branch  of  the  legislature, 
it  must  be  evident.  Sir,  that  they  would  make  what  laws  they  pleased^ 
however  injurious  or  disagreeable  to  the  other  States;  and  that  they 
would  always  prevent  the  other  States  from  making  any  lawSy  however 
necessary  and  proper y  if  not  agreeeable  to  the  views  of  those  three  States. 
They  were  not  only.  Sir,  by  this  system,  to  have  such  an  undue 
superiority  in  making  laws  and  regulations  for  the  Union,  but  to 
have  the  same  superiority  in  the  appointment  of  the  Presidenty  the 
judgeSy  and  all  other  officers  of  government.  Hence,  these  three 
States  would  in  reality  have  the  appointment  of  the  President, 
judges,  and  all  the  other  officers.  This  President  and  these  judges, 
so  appointed,  we  may  be  morally  certain  would  be  citizens  of  one 
of  those  three  States;  and  the  President,  as  appointed  by  them,  and 
a  citizen  of  one  of  them,  would  espouse  their  interests  and  their 
views,  when  they  came  in  competition  with  the  views  and  interests 
of  the  other  States.  This  President,  so  appointed  by  the  three 
large  States,  and  so  unduly  under  their  influence,  was  to  have  a 
negative  upon  every  law  that  should  be  passed,  which,  if  negatived 
by  him,  was  not  to  take  effect,  unless  assented  to  by  two  thirds  of 
each  branch  of  the  legislature,  a  provision  which  deprived  ten  States 
of  even  the  faintest  shadow  of  liberty;  for  if  they,  by  a  miraculous 
unanimity,  having  all  their  members  present,  should  outvote  the 
other  three,  and  pass  a  law  contrary  to  their  wishes,  those  three 
large  States  need  only  procure  the  President  to  negative  it,  and  there- 
by prevent  a  possibility  of  its  ever  taking  effect,  because  the  repre- 
sentatives of  those  three  States  would  amount  to  much  more  than 
one  third  (almost  one  half)  of  the  representatives  in  each  branch. 
And,  Sir,  this  government  so  organized,  with  all  this  undue  superi- 


176      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

ority  in  those  three  large  States,  was,  as  you  see,  to  have  a  power 
of  negativing  the  laws  passed  by  every  State  legislature  in  the  Union. 
Whether,  therefore,  laws  passed  by  the  legislature  of  Maryland, 
New  York,  Connecticut,  Georgia,  or  of  any  other  of  the  ten  States, 
for  the  regulation  of  their  internal  police,  should  take  efiFect  and  be 
carried  into  execution,  was  to  depend  on  the  good  pleasure  of  the 
representatives  of  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  and  Massachusetts. 

This  system  of  slavery,  which  bound  hand  and  foot  ten  States 
in  the  Union,  and  placed  them  at  the  mercy  of  the  other  three,  and 
under  the  most  abject  and  servile  subjection  to  them,  was  approved 
by  a  majority  of  the  members  of  the  convention,  and  reported  by 
the  committee. 

[8]  On  this  occasion  the  House  will  recollect,  that  the  conven- 
tion was  resolved  into  a  committee  of  the  whole;  of  this  committee 
Mr.  Gorham  was  chairman.  The  honorable  Mr.  Washington  was 
then  on  the  floor,  in  the  same  situation  with  the  other  members 
of  the  convention  at  large,  to  oppose  any  system  he  thought  injurious, 
or  to  propose  any  alterations  or  amendments  he  thought  beneficial. 
To  these  propositions,  so  reported  by  the  committee,  no  opposition 
was  given  by  that  illustrious  personage,  or  by  the  President  of  the 
State  of  Pennsylvania.  They  both  appeared  cordially  to  approve 
them,  and  to  give  them  their  hearty  concurrence;  yet  this  system 
I  am  confident,  Mr.  Speaker,  there  is  not  a  member  in  this  House 
would  advocate,  or  who  would  hesitate  one  moment  in  saying  it 
ought  to  be  rejected.  I  mention  this  circumstance,  in  compliance 
with  the  duty  I  owe  this  honorable  body,  not  with  a  view  to  lessen 
those  exalted  characters,  but  to  show  how  far  the  greatest  and  best 
of  men  may  be  led  to  adopt  very  improper  measures  through  error 
in  judgment.  State  influence,  or  by  other  causes,  and  to  show,  that 
it  is  our  duty  not  to  suffer  our  eyes  to  be  so  far  dazzled  by  the  splen- 
dor of  names,  as  to  run  blindfolded  into  what  may  be  our  destruction. 

[9]  Mr.  Speaker,  I  revere  those  illustrious  personages  as  much 
as  any  man  here.  No  man  has  a  higher  sense  of  the  important  ser- 
vices they  have  rendered  this  country.  No  member  of  the  con- 
vention went  there  more  disposed  to  pay  a  deference  to  their  opinions; 
but  I  should  little  have  deserved  the  trust  this  State  reposed  in  me, 
if  I  could  have  sacrificed  its  dearest  interests  to  my  complaisance 
for  their  sentiments. 

[10]  When,  contrary  to  our  hopes,  it  was  found,  that  a  majority 
of  the  members  of  the  convention  had  in  the  committee  agreed  to 
the  system  I  have  laid  before  you,  we  then  thought  it  necessary 
to  bring  forward  the  propositions  which  such  of  us  as  had  disapproved 
the  plan  before  had  prepared.    The  members  who  prepared  these 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  179 

resolutions  were  principally  of  the  Connecticut,  New  York,  Jersey, 
Delaware,  and  Maryland  delegations.  The  honorable  Mr.  Patter- 
son, of  the  Jerseys,  laid  them  before  the  convention;  of  these  propo- 
sitions *  I  am  in  possession  of  a  copy,  which  I  shall  beg  leave  to  read 
to  you. 

[ii]  These  propositions  were  referred  to  a  committee  of  the  whole 
House;  unfortunately  the  New  Hampshire  delegation  had  not  yet 
arrived,  and  the  sickness  of  a  relation  of  the  honorable  Mr.  McHenry 
obliged  him  still  to  be  absent;  a  circumstance,  Sir,  which  I  considered 
much  to  be  regretted,  as  Maryland  thereby  was  represented  by 
only  two  delegates,  and  they  unhappily  differed  very  widely  in  their 
sentiments. 

[12]  The  result  of  the  reference  of  these  last  propositions  to  a 
committee  was  a  speedy  and  hasty  determination  to  reject  them.  I 
doubt  not.  Sir,  to  those  who  consider  them  with  attention,  so  sudden 
a  rejection  will  appear  surprising;  but  it  may  be  proper  to  inform 
you,  that,  on  our  meeting  in  convention,  it  was  soon  found  there  were 
among  us  three  parties,  of  very  different  sentiments  and  views. 

[13]  One  party,  whose  object  and  wish  it  was  to  abolish  and 
annihilate  all  State  governments,  and  to  bring  forward  one  general 
government,  over  this  extensive  continent,  of  a  monarchical  nature, 
under  certain  restrictions  and  limitations.  Those  who  openly  avowed 
this  sentiment  were,  it  is  true,  but  few;  yet  it  is  equally  true.  Sir, 
that  there  was  a  considerable  number,  who  did  not  openly  avow  it, 
who  were  by  myself,  and  many  others  of  the  convention,  considered 
as  being  in  reality  favorers  of  that  sentiment;  and,  acting  upon  those 
principles,  covertly  endeavouring  to  carry  into  effect  what  they  well 
knew  openly  and  avowedly  could  not  be  accomplished. 

[14]  The  second  party  was  not  for  the  abolition  of  the  State 
governments,  nor  for  the  introduction  of  a  monarchical  government 
under  any  form;  but  they  wished  to  establish  such  a  system,  as 
could  give  their  own  States  undue  power  and  influence  in  the  govern- 
ment over  the  other  States. 

[15]  A  third  party  was  what  I  considered  truly  federal  and 
republican;  this  party  was  nearly  equal  in  number  with  the  other 
two,  and  was  composed  of  the  delegations  from  Connecticut,  New 
York,  New  Jersey,  Delaware,  and  in  part  from  Maryland;  also  of 
some  individuals  from  other  representations.  This  party,  Sir,  were 
for  proceeding  upon  terms  of  federal  equality;  they  were  for  taking 
our  present  federal  system  as  the  basis  of  their  proceedings,  and,  as 
far  as  experience  had  shown  us  that  there  were  defects,  to  remedy 
those  defects;  as  far  as  experience  had  shown  that  other  powers  were 

*  These  will  be  inserted  in  some  future  number  with  few  remarks  upon  them. 


l80     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

necessary  to  the  federal  government,  to  give  those  powers.  They 
considered  this  the  object  for  which  they  were  sent  by  their  States, 
and  what  their  States  expected  from  them;  they  urged,  that,  if, 
after  doing  this,  experience  should  show  that  there  still  were  defects 
in  the  system  (as  no  doubt  there  would  be),  the  same  good  sense 
that  induced  this  convention  to  be  called,  would  cause  the  States, 
when  they  found  it  necessary,  to  call  another;  and,  if  that  conven- 
tion should  act  with  the  same  moderation,  the  members  of  it  would 
proceed  to  correct  such  errors  and  defects  as  experience  should  have 
brought  to  light.  That,  by  proceeding  in  this  train,  we  should  have 
a  prospect  at  length  of  obtaining  as  perfect  a  system  of  federal 
government,  as  the  nature  of  things  would  admit.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  we,  contrary  to  the  purpose  for  which  we  were  intrusted, 
considering  ourselves  as  master-builders,  too  proud  to  amend  our 
original  government,  should  demolish  it  entirely,  and  erect  a  new 
system  of  our  own,  a  short  time  might  show  the  new  system  as  de- 
fective as  the  old,  perhaps  more  so.  Should  a  convention  be  found 
necessary  again,  if  the  members  thereof,  acting  upon  the  same  prin- 
ciples, instead  of  amending  and  correcting  its  defects,  should  demolish 
that  entirely,  and  bring  forward  a  third  system,  that  also  might  soon 
be  found  no  better  than  either  of  the  former;  and  thus  we  might 
always  remain  young  in  government,  and  always  suiFering  the  incon- 
veniences of  an  incorrect,  imperfect  system. 

[i6]  But,  Sir,  the  favorers  of  monarchy,  and  those  who  wished 
the  total  abolition  of  State  governments,  well  knowing,  that  a  govern- 
ment founded  on  truly  federal  principles^  the  basis  of  which  were 
the  thirteen  State  governments^  preserved  in  ftUl  force  and  energy ^  would 
be  destructive  of  their  views;  and  knowing  they  were  too  weak  in 
numbers  openly  to  bring  forward  their  system;  conscious  also  that 
the  people  of  America  would  reject  it  if  proposed  to  them,  —  joined 
their  interest  with  that  party,  who  wished  a  system,  giving  particular 
States  the  power  and  influence  over  the  others^  procuring  in  return 
mutual  sacrifices  from  them,  in  giving  the  government  great  and 
undefined  powers  as  to  its  legislative  and  executive;  well  knowing,  that, 
by  departing  from  a  federal  system^  they  paved  the  way  for  their 
favorite  object,  the  destruction  of  the  State  governmentSy  and  the 
introduction  of  monarchy.  And  hence,  Mr.  Speaker,  I  apprehend, 
in  a  great  measure,  arose  the  objections  of  those  honorable  members, 
Mr.  Mason  and  Mr.  Gerry.  In  every  thing  that  tended  to  give 
the  large  States  power  over  the  smaller^  the  first  of  those  gentlemen 
could  not  forget  he  belonged  to  the  Ancient  Dominion,  nor  could 
the  latter  forget,  that  he  represented  Old  Massachusetts.  That 
part  of  the  system,  which  tended  to  give  those  States  power  over 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  l8l 

the  others,  met  with  their  perfect  approbation;  but,  when  they  viewed 
it  charged  with  such  powers^  as  would  destroy  all  State  governments^ 
their  own  as  well  as  the  rest,  —  when  they  saw  a  president  so  con- 
stituted as  to  differ  from  a  monarch  scarcely  but  in  name,  and  having 
it  in  his  power  to  become  such  in  reality  when  he  pleased;  they 
being  republicans  and  federalists^  as  far  as  an  attachment  to  their 
own  States  would  permit  them,  they  warmly  and  zealously  opposed 
those  parts  of  the  system.  From  these  different  sentiments,  and 
from  this  combination  of  interest,  /  apprehend^  Sir,  proceeded  the 
fate  of  what  was  called  the  Jersey  resolutions,  and  the  report  made 
by  the  committee  of  the  whole  House. 

[17]  The  Jersey  propositions  being  thus  rejected,  the  convention 
took  up  those  reported  by  the  committee,  and  proceeded  to  debate 
them  by  paragraphs.  It  was  now  that  they,  who  disapproved 
the  report,  iOund  it  necessary  to  make  a  warm  and  decided  opposition^ 
which  took  place  upon  the  discussion  of  the  seventh  resolution, 
which  related  to  the  inequality  of  representation  in  the  first  branch. 
Those  who  advocated  this  inequality  urged,  that,  when  the  articles 
of  confederation  were  formed,  it  was  only  from  necessity  and  expediency 
that  the  States  were  admitted  each  to  have  an  equal  vote;  but  that 
our  situation  was  now  altered^  and  therefore  those  States  who  con- 
sidered it  contrary  to  their  interest,  would  no  longer  abide  by  it. 
They  said,  no  State  ought  to  wish  to  have  influence  in  government, 
except  in  proportion  to  what  it  contributes  to  it;  that,  if  it  con- 
tributes but  little,  it  ought  to  have  but  a  small  vote;  that  taxation 
and  representation  ought  always  to  go  together;  that  if  one  State 
had  sixteen  times  as  many  inhabitants  as  another^  or  was  sixteen  times 
as  wealthyy  it  ought  to  have  sixteen  times  as  many  votes;  that  an  in- 
habitant of  Pennsylvania  ought  to  have  as  much  weight  and  con- 
sequence as  an  inhabitant  of  Jersey  or  Delaware;  that  it  was  contrary 
to  the  feelings  of  the  human  mind;  what  the  large  States  would  never 
submit  to;  that  the  large  States  would  have  great  objects  in  view,  in 
which  they  would  never  permit  the  smaller  States  to  thwart  them; 
that  equality  of  suffrage  was  the  rotten  part  of  the  constitution,  and 
that  this  was  a  happy  time  to  get  clear  of  it.  In  fine,  that  it  was 
the  poison  which  contaminated  our  whole  system,  and  the  source 
of  all  the  evils  we  experienced. 

[18]  This,  Sir,  is  the  substance  of  the  arguments,  if  arguments 
they  may  be  called,  which  were  used  in  favor  of  inequality  of  suffrage. 
Those  who  advocated  the  equality  of  suffrage^  took  the  matter  up 
on  the  original  principles  of  government;  they  urged,  that  all  men, 
considered  in  a  state  of  nature,  before  any  government  is  formed, 
are  equally  free  and  independent,  no  one  having  any  right  or  author- 


1 82     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

ity  to  exercise  power  over  another,  and  this  mihout  any  regard  to 
difference  in  personal  strength^  understandings  or  wealth.  That,  when 
such  individuals  enter  into  government,  they  have  each  a  right  to 
an  eqtud  voice  in  its  first  formation,  and  afterwards  have  each  a  right 
to  an  equal  vote  in  every  matter  which  relates  to  their  government. 
That,  if  it  could  be  done  conveniently,  they  have  a  right  to  exercise 
it  in  person.  Where  it  cannot  be  done  in  person,  but  for  convenience 
representatives  are  appointed,  to  act  for  them,  every  person  has  a  right 
to  an  equal  vote  in  choosing  that  representative;  who  is  intrusted  to 
do  for  the  whole,  that  which  the  whole,  if  they  could  assemble, 
might  do  in  person,  and  in  the  transaction  of  which,  each  would 
have  an  equal  voice.  That,  if  we  were  to  admit,  because  a  man  was 
more  taise,  more  strong,  or  more  wealthy,  he  should  be  entitled  to  more 
votes  than  another,  it  would  be  inconsistent  with  the  freedom  and 
liberty  of  that  other,  and  would  reduce  him  to  slavery.  Suppose,  for 
instance,  ten  individuals  in  a  state  of  nature,  about  to  enter  into 
government,  nine  of  whom  are  equally  wise,  equally  strong,  and  equally 
wealthy,  the  tenth  is  ten  times  as  wise,  ten  times  as  strong,  or  ten  times 
as  rich;  if,  for  this  reason,  he  is  to  have  ten  votes  for  each  vote  of  either 
of  the  others,  the  nine  might  as  well  have  no  vote  at  all;  since,  though 
the  whole  nine  might  assent  to  a  measure,  yet  the  vote  of  the  tenth 
would  countervail,  and  set  aside  all  their  votes.  If  this  tenth  approved 
of  what  they  wished  to  adopt,  it  would  be  well,  but  if  he  disapproved, 
he  could  prevent  it;  and  in  the  same  manner,  he  could  carry  into 
execution  any  measure  he  wished,  contrary  to  the  opinion  of  all  the 
others,  he  having  ten  votes,  and  the  other  altogether  hut  nine.  It  is 
evident,  that,  on  these  principles,  the  nine  would  have  no  will  or  dis- 
cretion of  their  own,  but  must  be  totally  dependent  on  the  will  and 
discretion  of  the  tenth;  to  him  they  would  be  as  absolutely  slaves,  as 
any  negro  is  to  his  master.  If  he  did  not  attempt  to  carry  into  exe- 
cution any  measures  injurious  to  the  other  nine,  it  could  only  be 
said,  that  they  had  a  good  master;  they  would  not  be  the  less  slaves, 
because  they  would  be  totally  dependent  on  the  will  of  another,  and  not 
on  their  own  will.  They  might  not  feel  their  chains,  but  they  would, 
notwithstanding,  wear  them;  and  whenever  their  master  pleased, 
he  might  draw  them  so  tight  as  to  gall  them  to  the  bone.  Hence 
it  was  urged,  the  inequality  of  representation,  or  giving  to  one  man  more 
votes  than  another,  on  account  of  his  wealth,  Wc,  was  altogether 
inconsistent  with  the  principles  of  liberty,  and  in  the  same  proportion 
as  it  should  be  adopted,  in  favor  of  one  or  more,  in  that  proportion  are 
the  others  enslaved.  It  was  urged,  that  though  every  individual 
should  have  an  equal  voice  in  the  government,  yet,  even  the  superior 
wealth,  strength,  or  understanding,  would  give  great  and  undue 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  I83 

advantages  to  those  who  possessed  them.  That  wealth  attracts 
respect  and  attention;  superior  strength  would  cause  the  weaker 
and  more  feeble  to  be  cautious  how  they  offended,  and  to  put  up  with 
small  injuries  rather  than  to  engage  in  an  unequal  contest;  in  like 
manner,  superior  understanding  would  give  its  possessor  many  oppor- 
tunities of  profiting  at  the  expense  of  the  more  ignorant. 

[19]  Having  thus  established  these  principles,  with  respect  to 
the  rights  of  individuals  in  a  state  of  nature^  and  what  is  due  to  eachy 
on  entering  into  government,  (principles  established  by  every  writer 
on  liberty,)  they  proceeded  to  show,  that  States,  when  once  formed^ 
are  considered,  with  respect  to  each  other,  as  individuals  in  a  state  of 
nature;  that,  like  individuals,  each  State  is  considered  equally  free 
and  equally  independent,  the  one  having  no  right  to  exercise  authority 
over  the  other,  though  more  strong,  more  wealthy,  or  abounding  with 
more  inhabitants.  That,  when  a  number  of  States  unite  themselves 
under  a  federal  government,  the  same  principles  apply  to  them,  as  when 
a  number  of  individual  men  unite  themselves  under  a  State  govern^ 
ment.  That  every  argument  which  shows  one  man  ought  not  to  have 
more  votes  than  another,  because  he  is  wiser,  stronger,  or  wealthier, 
proves  that  one  State  ought  not  to  have  more  votes  than  another, 
because  it  is  stronger,  richer,  or  more  populous.  And,  that  by  giving 
one  State,  or  one  or  two  States,  more  votes  than  the  others,  the  others 
thereby  are  enslaved  to  such  State  or  States,  having  the  greater  number 
of  votes,  in  the  same  manner  as  in  the  case  before  put,  of  individuals, 
when  one  has  more  votes  than  the  others.  That  the  reason  why  each 
individual  man  in  forming  a  State  government  should  have  an  equal 
vote,  is  because  each  individual,  before  he  enters  into  government, 
is  equally  free  and  independent.  So  each  State,  when  States  enter  into 
a  federal  government,  are  entitled  to  an  equal  vote;  because,  before 
they  entered  into  such  federal  government,  each  State  was  equally 
free  and  equally  independent.  That  adequate  representation  of  men 
formed  into  a  State  government,  consists  in  each  man  having  an  equal 
voice,  either  personally,  or,  if  by  representatives,  that  he  should  have 
an  equal  voice  in  choosing  the  representatives.  So,  adequate  repre- 
sentation of  States  in  a  federal  government,  consists  in  each  State  hav- 
ing  an  equal  voice,  either  in  person  or  by  its  representative,  in  every 
thing  which  relates  to  the  federal  government.  That  this  adequacy 
of  representation  is  more  important  in  a  federal,  than  in  a  State  govern- 
ment, because  the  members  of  a  State  government,  the  district  of 
which  is  not  very  large,  have  generally  such  a  common  interest,  that 
laws  can  scarcely  be  made  by  one  part,  oppressive  to  the  others,  with- 
out their  suffering  in  common;  but  the  different  States,  composing 
an  extensive  federal  empire,  widely  distant  one  from  the  other,  may 


184      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

have  interests  so  totally  distinct^  that  the  one  part  might  be  greatly 
benefited  by  what  would  be  destructive  to  the  other. 

[20]  They  were  not  satisfied  by  resting  it  on  principles;  they 
also  appealed  to  history.  They  showed,  that  in  the  amphictyonic 
confederation  of  the  Grecian  cities,  each  city^  however  different  in 
wealthy  strength^  and  other  circumstances^  sent  the  same  number  of 
deputies,  and  had  each  an  equal  voice  in  every  thing  that  related  to 
the  common  concerns  of  Greece.  It  was  shown,  that  in  the  seven 
provinces  of  the  United  Netherlands,  and  the  confederated  Cantons 
of  Switzerland,  each  Canton  and  each  province  have  an  equal  vote^ 
although  there  are  as  great  distinctions  of  wealth,  strength,  popu- 
lation, and  extent  of  territory  among  those  provinces  and  those 
CantonSy  as  among  these  States.  It  was  said,  that  the  maxim,  that 
taxation  and  representation  ought  to  go  together,  was  true  so  far, 
that  no  person  ought  to  be  taxed  who  is  not  represented^  but  not  in 
the  extent  insisted  upon,  to  wit,  that  the  quantum  of  taxation  and 
representation  ought  to  be  the  same;  on  the  contrary,  the  quantum 
of  representation  depends  upon  the  quantum  ot  freedom;  and  therefore 
all,  whether  individual  States,  or  individual  men,  who  aire' equally 
free,  have  a  right  to  equal  representation.  That  to  those  who  insist, 
that  he  who  pays  the  greatest  share  of  taxes  ought  to  have  the 
greatest  number  of  votes,  it  is  a  sufficient  answer  to  say,  that  this 
rule  would  be  destructive  of  the  liberty  of  the  others,  and  would  ren- 
der them  slaves  to  the  more  rich  and  wealthy.  That  if  one  man 
pays  more  taxes  than  another,  it  is  because  he  has  more  wealth  to 
be  protected  by  government,  and  he  receives  greater  benefits  from 
the  government.  So  if  one  State  pays  more  to  the  federal  govern- 
ment, it  is  because,  as  a  State,  she  enjoys  greater  blessings  from  it; 
she  has  more  wealth  protected  by  it,  or  a  greater  number  of 
inhabitants,  whose  rights  are  secured,  and  who  share  its 
advantages. 

[21]  It  was  urged,  that,  upon  these  principles,  the  Pennsylvanian, 
or  inhabitant  of  a  large  State,  was  of  as  much  consequence  as  the 
inhabitant  of  Jersey,  Delaware,  Maryland,  or  any  other  State.  That 
his  consequence  was  to  be  decided  by  his  situation  in  his  own  State; 
that  if  he  was  there  as  free,  if  he  had  as  great  share  in  the  forming  of 
his  own  government,  and  in  the  making  and  executing  its  laws,  as 
the  inhabitants  of  those  other  States,  then  was  he  equally  important, 
and  of  equal  consequence.  Suppose  a  confederation  of  States  had 
never  been  adopted,  but  every  State  had  remained  absolutely  in 
its  independent  situation,  no  person  could,  with  propriety,  say  that 
the  citizen  of  the  large  State  was  not  as  important  as  the  citizen  of 
the  smaller;   the  confederation  of  the  States  cannot  alter  the  case. 


APPENDIX   A,    CLVIII  1 85 

It  was  said,  that  in  all  transactions  between  State  and  State^  the 
freedom,  independence,  importance,  and  consequence,  even  the 
individuality  of  each  citizen  of  the  different  States,  might  with 
propriety  be  said  to  be  swallowed  up,  or  concentrated,  in  the  inde* 
pendence,  the  freedom,  and  the  individuality  of  the  State  of  which 
they  are  citizens.  That  the  thirteen  States  are  thirteen  distinct  politi- 
cal individual  existences ^  as  to  each  other;  that  Xh^  federal  government 
is,  or  ought  to  be,  a  government  over  these  thirteen  political  individual 
existences,  which  form  the  members  of  that  government;  and  that, 
as  the  largest  State,  is  only  a  single  individual  of  this  government, 
it  ought  to  have  only  one  vote;  the  smallest  State,  also  being  one 
individual  member  of  this  government,  ought  also  to  have  one  vote. 
To  those  who  urged,  that  for  the  States  to  have  equal  suffrage 
was  contrary  to  the  feelings  of  the  human  heart,  it  was  answered, 
that  it  was  admitted  to  be  contrary  to  the  feelings  of  pride  and 
ambition,  but  those  were  feelings  which  ought  not  to  be  gratified 
at  the  expense  of  freedom. 

[22]  It  was  urged,  that  the  position,  that  great  States  would 
have  great  objects  in  view,  in  which  they  would  not  suffer  the  less 
States  to  thwart  them,  was  one  of  the  strongest  reasons  why  inequality 
of  representation  ought  not  to  be  admitted.  If  those  great  objects 
were  not  inconsistent  with  the  interest  of  the  less  States,  they  would 
readily  concur  in  them;  but  if  they  were  inconsistent  with  the  interest 
of  a  majority  of  the  States  composing  the  government,  in  that  case 
two  or  three  States  ought  not  to  have  it  *n  their  power  to  aggrandize 
themselves,  at  the  expense  of  all  the  rest.  To  those  who  alleged,  that 
equality  of  suffrage  in  our  federal  government,  was  the  poisonous 
source  from  which  all  our  misfortunes  flowed,  it  was  answered,  that 
the  allegation  was  not  founded  in  fact;  that  equality  of  suffrage  had 
never  been  complained  of  by  the  States,  as  a  defect  in  our  federal  system; 
that,  among  the  eminent  writers,  foreigners  and  others,  who  had 
treated  of  the  defects  of  our  confederation,  and  proposed  alterations, 
none  had  proposed  an  alteration  in  this  part  of  the  system;  and  members 
of  the  convention,  both  in  and  out  of  Congress,  who  advocated  the 
equality  of  suffrage,  called  upon  their  opponents,  both  in  and  out 
of  Congress,  and  challenged  them  to  produce  one  single  instance 
where  a  bad  measure  had  been  adopted,  or  a  good  measure  had  failed 
of  adoption,  in  consequence  of  the  States  having  an  equal  vote;  on 
the  contrary,  they  urged,  that  all  our  evils  flowed  from  the  want 
of  power  in  the  federal  head,  and  that,  let  the  right  of  suffrage  in  the 
States  be  altered  in  any  manner  whatever,  if  no  greater  powers  were 
given  to  the  government,  the  same  inconveniences  would  continue. 

[23]  It  was  denied  that  the  equality  of  suffrage  was  originally 


1 86     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

agreed  to  on  principles  of  necessity  or  expediency;  on  the  contrary, 
that  it  was  adopted  on  the  principles  of  the  rights  of  men  and  the 
rights  of  StateSy  which  were  then  well  known,  and  which  then  influ- 
enced our  conduct,  although  now  they  seem  to  be  forgotten.  For 
this,  the  Journals  of  Congress  were  appealed  to;  it  was  from  them 
shown,  that  when  the  committee  of  Congress  reported  to  that  body 
the  articles  of  confederation,  the  very  first  article,  which  became 
the  subject  of  discussion,  was  that  respecting  equality  of  suffrage. 
That  Virginia  proposed  divers  modes  of  suffrage,  all  on  the  principle 
of  inequality,  which  were  almost  unanimously  rejected;  that  on  the 
question  for  adopting  the  article,  it  passed,  Virginia  being  the  only 
State  which  voted  in  the  negative.  That,  after  the  articles  of  con- 
federation were  submitted  to  the  States,  by  them  to  be  ratified, 
almost  every  State  proposed  certain  amendments,  which  they  in- 
structed their  delegates  to  endeavour  to  obtain  before  ratification, 
and  that  among  all  the  amendments  proposed,  not  one  State^  not 
even  Virginia,  proposed  an  amendment  of  that  article^  securing  the 
equality  of  suffrage^  —  the  most  convincing  proof  it  was  agreed  to 
and  adopted,  not  from  necessity^  but  upon  a  full  conviction^  that, 
according  to  the  principles  of  free  governments^  the  States  had  a  right 
to  that  equality  of  suffrage. 

[24]  But,  Sir,  it  was  to  no  purpose  that  the  futility  of  their 
objections  were  shown,  when  driven  from  the  pretence^  that  the 
equality  of  suffrage  had  been  originally  agreed  to  on  principles  of 
expediency  and  necessity;  the  representatives  of  the  large  States  per- 
sisting in  a  declaration,  that  they  would  never  agree  to  admit  the 
smaller  States  to  an  equality  of  suffrage.  In  answer  to  this,  they 
were  informed,  and  informed  in  terms  the  most  strong  and  energetic 
that  could  possibly  be  used,  that  we  never  would  agree  to  a  system 
giving  them  the  undue  influence  and  superiority  they  proposed.  That 
we  would  risk  every  possible  consequence.  That  from  anarchy 
and  confusion,  order  might  arise.  That  slavery  was  the  worst  that 
could  ensue,  and  we  considered  the  system  proposed  to  be  the  most 
complete,  most  abject  system  of  slavery  that  the  wit  of  man  ever  de- 
vised, under  the  pretence  of  forming  a  government  for  free  States. 
That  we  never  would  submit  tamely  and  servilely,  to  a  present  cer- 
tain evil,  in  dread  of  a  future,  which  might  be  imaginary;  that  we 
were  sensible  the  eyes  of  our  country  and  the  world  were  upon  us. 
That  we  would  not  labor  under  the  imputation  of  being  unwilling 
to  form  a  strong  and  energetic  federal  government;  but  we  would  pub- 
lish the  system  which  we  approved,  and  also  that  which  we  opposed, 
and  leave  it  to  our  country,  and  the  world  at  large,  to  judge  between 
us,  who  best  understood  the  rights  of  free  men  and  free  States,  and  whq 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  1 87 

bfsi  advocated  them;  and  to  the  same  tribunal  we  would  submit,  who 
ought  to  be  answerable  for  all  the  consequences,  which  might  arise 
to  the  Union  from  the  convention  breaking  up,  without  proposing 
any  system  to  their  constituents.  During  this  debate  we  were 
threatened^  that  if  we  did  not  agree  to  the  system  proposed,  we  never 
should  have  an  opportunity  of  meeting  in  convention  to  deliberate  on 
another^  and  this  was  frequently  urged.  In  answery  we  called  upon 
them  to  show  what  was  to  prevent  it,  and  from  what  quarter  was  our 
danger  to  proceed;  was  it  from  sl  foreign  enemy}  Our  distance  from 
Europe,  and  the  political  situation  of  that  country,  left  us  but  little 
to  fear.  Was  there  any  ambitious  State  or  States,  who,  in  violation 
of  every  sacred  obligation,  was  preparing  to  enslave  the  other  States, 
and  raise  itself  to  consequence  on  the  ruin  of  the  others}  Or  was  there 
any  such  ambitious  individual}  We  did  not  apprehend  it  to  be  the 
case;  but  suppose  it  to  be  true,  it  rendered  it  the  more  necessary, 
that  we  should  sacredly  guard  against  a  system,  which  might  enable 
all  those  ambitious  views  to  be  carried  into  effect,  even  under  the  sanction 
of  the  constitution  and  government.  In  fine.  Sir,  all  these  threats  were 
treated  with  contempt,  and  they  were  told,  that  we  apprehended 
but  one  reason  to  prevent  the  States  meeting  again  in  convention; 
that,  when  they  discovered  the  part  this  convention  had  acted,  and 
how  much  its  members  were  abusing  the  trust  reposed  in  them,  the 
States  would  never  trust  another  convention.  At  length.  Sir,  after 
every  argument  had  been  exhausted  by  the  advocates  of  equality 
of  representation,  the  question  was  called,  when  a  majority  decided 
in  favor  of  the  inequality;  Massachusetts,  Pennsylvania,  Virginia, 
North  Carolina,  South  Carolina,  and  Georgia  voting  for  it;  Con- 
necticut, New  York,  New  Jersey,  and  Delaware  against  it;  Maryland 
divided.  It  may  be  thought  surprising.  Sir,  that  Georgia,  a  State 
now  small  and  comparatively  trifling  in  the  Union,  should  advocate 
this  system  of  unequal  representation,  giving  up  her  present  equality 
in  the  federal  government,  and  sinking  herself  almost  to  total  insig- 
nificance in  the  scale;  but.  Sir,  it  must  be  considered,  that  Georgia 
has  the  most  extensive  territory  in  the  Union,  being  larger  than  the 
whole  island  of  Great  Britain,  and  thirty  times  as  large  as  Connecticut. 
This  system  being  designed  to  preserve  to  the  States  their  whole  terri- 
tory unbroken,  and  to  prevent  the  erection  of  new  States  within  the 
territory  of  any  of  them,  Georgia  looked  forward  when,  her  popula- 
tion  being  increased  in  some  measure  proportioned  to  her  territory, 
she  should  rise  in  the  scale,  and  give  law  to  the  other  States,  and  hence 
we  found  the  delegation  of  Georgia  warmly  advocating  the  propo- 
sition of  giving  the  States  unequal  representation.  Next  day  the 
question  came  on,  with  respect  to  the  inequality  of  representation 


1 88      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

in  the  second  branch,  but  little  debate  took  place;  the  subject  had 
been  exhausted  on  the  former  question.  On  the  votes  being  taken, 
Massachusetts,  Pennsylvania,  Virginia,  North  Carolina,  and  South 
Carolina,  voted  for  the  inequality.  Connecticut,  New  York,  New 
Jersey,  Delaware,  and  Maryland  *  were  in  the  negative.  Georgia 
had  only  two  representatives  on  the  floor,  one  of  whom  (not,  I  believe, 
because  he  was  against  the  measure,  but  from  a  conviction,  that  we 
would  go  home,  and  thereby  dissolve  the  convention,  before  we  would 
give  up  the  question,)  voted  also  in  the  negative,  by  which  that 
State  was  divided.  Thus,  Sir,  on  this  great  and  important  part  of 
the  system,  the  convention  being  equally  divided,  five  States  for 
the  measure,  five  against,  and  one  divided,  there  was  a  total  stand, 
and  we  did  not  seem  very  likely  to  proceed  any  further.  At  length, 
it  was  proposed,  that  a  select  committee  should  be  balloted  for, 
composed  of  a  member  from  each  State,  which  committee  should 
endeavour  to  devise  some  mode  of  conciliation  or  compromise,  I 
had  the  honor  to  be  on  that  committee;  we  met,  and  discussed  the 
subject  of  difference;  the  one  side  insisted  on  the  inequality  of  suf- 
frage in  both  branches  J  the  other  insisted  on  the  equality  in  both; 
each  party  was  tenacious  of  their  sentiments,  when  it  was  found, 
that  nothing  could  induce  us  to  yield  to  the  inequality  in  both 
branches;  they  at  length  proposed,  by  way  of  compromise,  if  we 
would  accede  to  their  wishes  as  to  the  first  branch,  they  would  agree 
to  the  equal  representation  in  the  second  Branch.  To  this  it  was 
answered,  that  there  was  no  merit  in  the  proposal;  it  was  only  con- 
senting, after  they  had  struggled,  to  put  both  their  feet  on  our  necks y 
to  take  oru  of  them  offy  provided  we  would  consent  to  let  them  keep 
the  other  on;  when  they  knew  at  the  same  time,  that  they  could 
not  put  one  foot  on  our  necksy  unless  we  would  consent  to  it  and  that 
by  being  permitted  to  keep  on  that  one  foot,  they  should  afterwards 
be  able  to  place  the  other  foot  on  whenever  they  pleased, 

[25]  They  were  also  called  on  to  inform  us  what  security  they 
could  give  us  should  we  agree  to  this  compromise,  that  they  would 
abide  by  the  plan  of  government  formed  upon  it,  any  longer  that  it 
suited  their  interests y  or  they  found  it  expedient,  "The  States  have 
a  right  to  an  equality  of  representation.  This  is  secured  to  us  by  our 
present  articles  of  confederation;   we  are  in  possession  of  this  privi- 

*0n  this  question,  Mr.  Martin  was  the  only  delegate  for  Maryland  present, 
which  circumstance  secured  the  State  a  negative.  Immediately  after  the  question 
had  been  taken,  and  the  President  had  declared  the  votes,  Mr.  Jenifer  came  into  the 
convention,  when  Mr.  King,  from  Massachusetts,  valuing  himself  on  Mr.  Jenifer  to 
divide  the  State  of  Maryland  on  this  question,  as  he  had  on  the  former,  requested  of 
the  President  that  the  question  might  be  put  again;  however,  the  motion  was  too 
extraordinary  in  its  nature  to  meet  with  success. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  1 89 

lege  —  It  is  now  to  be  torn  from  us  —  What  security  can  you  give 
us,  that,  when  you  get  the  power  the  proposed  system  will  give  you, 
when  you  have  men  and  money^  that  you  will  not  force  from  the 
States  that  equality  of  suffrage  in  the  second  branchy  which  you  now 
deny  to  be  their  right,  and  only  give  up  from  absolute  necessity  V  Will 
you  tell  us  we  ought  to  trust  you  because  you  now  enter  into  a  solemn 
compact  with  usi  This  you  have  done  before^  and  now  treat  with 
the  utmost  contempt  —  Will  you  now  make  an  appeal  to  the  Supreme 
Being,  and  call  on  him  to  guarantee  your  observance  of  this  compact? 
The  same  you  hsLVt  formerly  done^  for  your  observance  of  the  articles 
of  confederation,  which  you  are  now  violating  in  the  most  wanton 
manner. 

[26]  "The  same  reasons,  which  you  now  urge  for  destroying  our 
present  federal  government,  may  be  urged  for  abolishing  the  system^ 
which  you  now  propose  to  adopt;  and  as  the  method  prescribed  by 
the  articles  of  confederation  is  now  totally  disregarded  by  you,  as  little 
regard  may  be  shown  by  you  to  the  rules  prescribed  for  the  amend- 
ment of  the  new  system^  whenever,  having  obtained  power  by  the 
government,  you  shall  hereafter  be  pleased  either  to  discard  it  entirely ^ 
or  so  to  alter  it  as  to  give  yourselves  all  that  superiority^  which  you 
have  now  contended  for,  and  to  obtain  which  you  have  shown  your- 
selves disposed  to  hazard  the  Union."  —  Such,  Sir,  was  the  language 
used  on  that  occasion,  and  they  were  told,  that,  as  we  could  not 
possibly  have  a  greater  tie  on  them  for  their  observance  of  the  new 
system  than  we  had  for  their  observance  of  the  articles  of  confedera- 
tion, which  had  proved  totally  insufficient^  it  would  be  wrong  and 
imprudent  to  confide  in  them,  —  It  was  further  observed,  that  the 

inequality  of  the  representation  would  be  daily  increasing. 

That  many  of  the  States,  whose  territory  was  confined  and  whose 
population  was  at  the  time  large  in  proportion  to  their  territory, 
would  probably,  twenty,  thirty,  or  forty  years  hence,  have  no  more 
representatives  than  at  the  introduction  of  the  government;  whereas, 
the  States  having  extensive  territory,  where  lands  are  to  be  pro- 
cured cheap,  would  be  daily  increasing  in  the  number  of  their  inhabi- 
tants, not  only  from  propagation,  but  from  the  emigration  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  other  States^sind  would  have  soon  double,  or  per- 
haps treble  the  number  of  representatives  that  they  are  to  have  at 
first,  and  thereby  enormously  increase  their  influence  in  the  national 
councils.  However,  the  majority  of  the  select  committee  at  length 
agreed  to  a  series  of  propositions,  by  way  of  compromise,  part  of 
which  related  to  the  representation  in  the  first  branch,  nearly  as 
the  system  is  now  published:  And  part  of  them  to  the  second  branch, 
securing,  in  that,  equal  representation,  and  reported  them  as  a  com- 


igO     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

promise,  upon  the  express  Utms^  that  they  were  wholly  to  be  adopted^ 
or  wholly  to  be  rejected:  upon  this  compromise,  a  great  number  of 
the  members  so  far  engaged  themselves,  that,  if  the  system  was 
progressed  upon  agreeable  to  the  terms  of  compromise,  they  would 
lend  it  their  names,  by  signing  it,  and  would  not  actively  oppose  it, 
if  their  States  should  appear  inclined  to  adopt  it.  —  Some,  however, 
in  which  number  was  myself,  who  joined  in  the  report,  and  agreed 
to  proceed  upon  those  principles,  and  see  what  kind  of  a  system  would 
ultimately  be  formed  upon  it,  yet  reserved  to  themselves,  in  the  most 
explicit  manner^  the  right  of  finally  giving  a  solemn  dissent  to  the 
system,  if  it  was  thought  by  them  inconsistent  with  the  freedom 
and  happiness  of  their  country.  This,  Sir,  will  account  why  the 
members  of  the  convention  so  generally  signed  their  names  to  the 
system;  not  because  they  thought  it  a  proper  one;  not  because  they 
thoroughly  approved^  or  were  unanimous  for  it;  but  because  they 
thought  it  better  than  the  system  attempted  to  be  forced  upon  them. 
This  report  of  the  select  committee  was  after  long  dissension,  adopted 
by  a  majority  of  the  convention,  and  the  system  was  proceeded  in 
accordingly.  I  believe  near  a  fortnight,  perhaps  more,  was  spent 
in  the  discussion  of  this  business,  during  which  we  were  on  the  verge 
of  dissolution,  scarce  held  together  by  the  strength  of  an  hair,  though 
the  public  papers  were  announcing  our  extreme  unanimity. 

[27]  Mr.  Speaker,  I  think  it  my  duty  to  observe,  that,  during 
this  struggle  to  prevent  the  large  States  from  having  all  power  in 
their  hands,  which  had  nearly  terminated  in  a  dissolution  of  the 
convention,  it  did  not  appear  to  me,  that  either  of  those  illustrious 
characters,  the  honorable  Mr.  fFashington  or  the  President  of  the 
State  of  Pennsylvania,  was  disposed  to  favor  the  claims  of  the  smaller 
States  J  against  the  undue  superiority  attempted  by  the  large  States; 
on  the  contrary,  the  Honorable  President  of  Pennsylvania  was  a 
member  of  the  committee  of  compromise ^  and  there  advocated  the  right 
of  the  large  States  to  an  inequality  in  both  branches^  and  only  ulti- 
mately conceded  it  in  the  second  branch  on  the  principle  of  concilia" 
tiony  when  it  was  found  no  other  terms  would  be  accepted.  This, 
Sir,  I  think  it  my  duty  to  mention,  for  the  consideration  of  those^ 
who  endeavour  to  prop  up  a  dangerous  and  defective  system  by  great 
names;  Soon  after  this  period,  the  Honorable  Mr.  Yates  and  Mr. 
Lansings  of  New  York,  left  us  —  they  had  uniformly  opposed  the 
system,  and,  I  believe^  despairing  of  getting  a  proper  one  brought 
forward,  or  of  rendering  any  real  service,  they  returned  no  more.^ 
The  propositions  reported  by  the  committee  of  the  whole  house  hav- 

» Sec  Appendix  A,  CLXXXV. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  I9I 

ing  been  fully  discussed  by  the  convention,  and,  with  many  altera* 
tions  having  been  agreed  to  by  a  majority,  a  committee  of  five,  were 
appointed  to  detail  the  system,  according  to  the  principles  contained 
in  what  had  been  agreed  to  by  that  majority  —  This  was  likely  to 
require  some  time,  and  the  convention  adjourned  for  eight  or  ten 
days.  —  Before  the  adjournment,  I  moved  for  liberty  to  be  given 
to  the  different  members  to  take  correct  copies  of  the  propositions^ 
to  which  the  convention  had  then  agreed,  in  order  that  during  the 
recess  of  the  convention,  we  might  have  an  opportunity  of  considering 
them,  and,  if  it  should  be  thought  that  any  alterations  or  amendments 
were  necessary^  that  we  might  be  prepared  against  the  convention 
met,  to  bring  them  forward  for  discussion.  But,  Sir,  the  same 
spirit^  which  caused  our  doors  to  be  shuty  our  proceedings  to  be  kept 
secret^  —  our  journals  to  be  locked  up,  —  and  every  avenue^  as  far  as 
possible^  to  be  shut  to  public  information^  prevailed  also  in  this  case; 
and  the  proposal,  so  reasonable  and  necessary ^  was  rejected  by  a  ma- 
jority of  the  convention;  thereby  precluding  even  the  members  them- 
selves from  the  necessary  means  of  information  and  deliberation  on  the 
important  business  in  which  they  were  engaged. 

[28]  It  has  been  observed,  Mr.  Speaker,  by  my  honorable  col- 
leagues, that  the  debate  respecting  the  mode  of  representation,  was 
productive  of  considerable  warmth;  this  observation  is  true.  But, 
Sir,  it  is  equally  true,  that,  if  we  could  have  tamely  and  servilely  con- 
sented to  be  bound  in  chains^  and  meanly  condescended  to  assist  in 
riveting  them  fast^  we  might  have  avoided  all  that  warmth,  and  have 
proceeded  with  as  much  calmness  and  coolness  as  any  Stoic  could 
have  wished. 

[29]  Having  thus.  Sir,  given  the  honorable  members  of  this 
house  a  short  history  of  some  interesting  parts  of  our  proceedings, 
I  shall  beg  leave  to  take  up  the  system  published  by  the  convention^ 
and  shall  request  your  indulgence,  while  I  make  some  observations 
on  different  parts  of  it,  and  give  you  such  further  information  as  may 
be  in  my  power.  (Here  Mr.  Martin  read  the  first  section  of  the  first 
article^  and  then  proceeded.)  With  respect  to  this  part  of  the  sys- 
tem, Mr.  Speaker,  there  was  a  diversity  of  sentiment;  those  who 
were  for  two  branches  in  the  legislature,  a  House  of  Representatives 
and  a  Senate,  urged  the  necessity  of  a  second  branchy  to  serve  as  a 
check  upon  the  firsts  and  used  all  those  trite  and  common-place  argu- 
ments which  may  be  proper  and  just,  when  applied  to  the  formation 
of  a  State  government^  over  individuals  variously  distinguished  in 
their  habits  and  manners,  fortune  and  rank;  where  a  body  chosen 
in  a  select  manner,  respectable  for  their  wealth  and  dignity,  may  be 
necessary,  frequently,  to  prevent  the  hasty  and  rash  measures  of  a 


192      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

representation  more  popular.  But,  on  the  other  side,  it  was  urged, 
that  none  of  those  arguments  could  with  propriety  be  applied  to 
the  formation  of  a  federal  government  over  a  number  of  independent 
States;  that  it  is  the  State  governments  which  are  to  watch  over  and 
protect  the  rights  of  the  individual^  whether  rich  or  poory  or  of  moder^ 
ate  circumstances y  and  in  which  the  democratic  and  aristocratic  influ- 
ence or  principles  are  to  be  so  blended^  modifiedy  and  checkedy  as  to 
prevent  oppression  and  injury;  that  the  federal  government  is  to 
guard  and  protect  the  States  and  their  rightSy  and  to  regulate  their 
common  concerns;  that  a  jederal  government  is  formed  by  the  States, 
as  StateSy  that  is,  in  their  sovereign  capacities,  in  the  same  manner 
as  treaties  and  alliances  are  formed;  that  sovereignties y  considered  as 
such,  cannot  be  said  to  have  jarring  interests  or  principles,  the  one 
aristocratic,  and  the  other  democratic;  but  that  the  principles  of 
a  sovereigntyy  considered  as  a  sovereignty,  are  the  samey  whether 
that  sovereignty  is  monarchical,  aristocratical,  democratical,  or 
mixed  —  That  the  history  of  mankind  doth  not  furnish  an  instance, 
from  its  earliest  period  to  the  present  time,  of  a  federal  government 
constituted  of  two  distinct  branches;  that  the  members  of  the  federal 
government,  if  appointed  by  the  SiateSy  in  their  State  capacities  that 
is,  by  their  legislatureSy  as  they  oughty  would  be  select  in  their  choiccy 
and,  coming  from  different  StateSy  having  different  interests  and  viewsy 
this  differerue  of  interests  and  views  would  always  be  a  sufficient 
check  over  the  whole.  And  it  was  shewn,  that  even  Adams,  who, 
the  reviewers  have  justly  observed,  appears  to  be  as  fond  of  checks 
and  balances  as  Lord  Chesteriield  of  the  GraceSy  even  he  declares, 
that  a  council  consisting  of  one  branch  has  always  been  found  suffi- 
cient in  a  federal  government. 

[30]  It  was  urged,  that  the  government  we  were  forming  was 
not  in  reality  a  federaly  but  a  national  government;  not  founded  on 
the  principles  of  the  preservationy  but  the  abolition  or  consolidation 
of  all  State  governments;  that  we  appeared  totally  to  have  forgot  the 
business  for  which  we  were  sent,  and  the  situation  of  the  country 
for  which  we  were  preparing  our  system — That  we  had  not  been 
sent  to  form  a  government  over  the  inhabitants  of  America,  con- 
sidered as  individuals;  that  as  individuals,  they  were  all  subject 
to  their  respective  State  governments,  which  governments  would 
still  remain,  though  the  federal  government  should  be  dissolved; 
that  the  system  of  government  we  were  entrusted  to  prepare,  was  a 
government  over  these  thirteen  States;  but  that,  in  our  proceedings, 
we  adopted  principles  which  would  be  right  and  proper,  only  on  the 
supposition  that  there  were  no  State  governments  at  ally  but  that  all 
the  inhabitants  of  this  extensive  continent  were,  in  their  individual 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  I93 

capacity^  without  government^  and  in  a  state  of  nature;  that,  accord- 
ingly, the  system  proposes  the  legislature  to  consist  of  ttvo  branches^ 
the  one  to  be  drawn  from  the  people  at  large^  immediately  in  their 
individual  capacity^  the  other  to  be  chosen  in  a  more  select  manner^ 
as  a  check  upon  the  first.  It  is,  in  its  very  introduction^  declared  to 
be  a  compact  between  the  people  of  the  United  States,  as  individuals; 
and  it  is  to  be  ratified  by  the  people  at  large,  in  their  capacity  as 
individuals;  all  which  it  was  said  would  be  quite  right  and  proper, 
if  there  were  no  State  governments^  if  all  the  people  of  this  continent 
were  in  a  state  of  nature^  and  we  were  forming  one  national  government 
for  them  as  individuals;  and  is  nearly  the  same  as  was  done  in  most 
of  the  States  when  they  formed  their  governments  over  the  people 
who  compose  them. 

[31]  Whereas  it  was  urged,  that  the  principles  on  which  z  federal 
government  over  States  ought  to  be  constructed  and  ratified^  are  the 
reverse;  that  instead  of  the  legislature  consisting  of  ttvo  branches, 
one  branch  was  sufficient,  whether  examined  by  the  dictates  of  rea^ 
son,  or  the  experience  of  ages;  that  the  representation^  instead  of 
being  drawn  from  the  people  at  large,  as  individuals^  ought  to  be 
drawn  from  the  States  as  States^  in  their  sovereign  capacity;  that,  in 
a  federal  government,  the  parties  to  the  compact  are  not  the  people^ 
as  individuals  J  but  the  States,  as  States;  and  that  it  is  by  the  States 
as  States,  in  their  sovereign  capacity,  that  the  system  of  government 
ought  to  be  ratified^  and  not  by  the  people^  as  individuals. 

[32]  It  was  further  said,  that,  in  sl  federal  government  over  States 
equally  free,  sovereign,  and  independent,  every  State  ought  to  have  an 
equal  share  in  making  the  federal  laws  or  regulations^  in  deciding  upon 
them,  and  in  carrying  them  into  execution;  neither  of  which  was  the 
case  in  this  system,  but  the  reverse;  the  StiTtes  not  having  an  equal 
voice  in  the  legislature^  nor  in  the  appointment  of  the  executive^  the 
judgeSj  and  the  other  officers  of  government.  It  was  insisted,  that, 
in  the  whole  system,  there  was  but  one  federal  feature,  —  the  appoint- 
ment of  the  senators  by  the  States  in  their  sovereign  capacity,  that 
is,  by  their  legislatures,  and  the  equality  of  suffrage  in  that  branch; 
but  it  was  said,  that  this  feature  was  only  federal  in  appearance. 

[33I  To  prove  this^  and  the  Senate  as  constituted  could  not  be  a 
security  for  the  protection  and  preservation  of  the  State  governments, 
and  that  the  senators  could  not  be  justly  considered  the  represen- 
tatives of  the  States^  as  States^  it  was  observed,  that  upon  just 
principles  of  representation^  the  representative  ought  to  speak  the 
sentiments  of  his  constituentSy  and  ought  to  vote  in  the  same  manner 
that  his  constituents  would  do,  (as  far  as  he  can  judge,)  provided 
his  constituents  were  acting  in  person,  and  had  the  same  knowledge 


194      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

and  information  with  himself;  and,  therefore,  that  the  representative 
ought  to  be  dependent  on  his  constituents^  and  answerable  to  them; 
that  the  connexion  between  the  representative  and  the  represented 
ought  to  be  as  near  and  as  close  as  possible.  According  to  these 
principles,  Mr.  Speaker,  in  this  State  it  is  provided  by  its  constitu- 
tion^ that  the  representatives  in  Congress  shall  be  chosen  annually^ 
shall  be  paid  by  the  State^  and  shall  be  subject  to  recall  even  within 
the  year;  so  cautiously  has  our  constitution  guarded  against  an  abuse 
of  the  trust  reposed  in  our  representatives  in  the  federal  government; 
whereas,  by  the  third  and  sixth  section  of  the  first  article  of  this 
new  system,  the  senators  are  to  be  chosen  for  six  years,  instead  of 
being  chosen  annually;  instead  of  being  paid  by  their  States^  who 
send  them,  they^  in  conjunction  with  the  other  branch,  are  to  pay 
themselves f  out  of  the  treasury  of  the  United  States;  and  are  not 
liable  to  be  recalled  during  the  period  for  which  they  are  chosen. 
Thus,  Sir,  for  six  years  the  senators  are  rendered  totally  and  abso- 
lutely independent  of  their  States^  of  whom  they  ought  to  be  the 
representatives y  without  any  bond  or  tie  between  them.  During 
that  timey  they  may  join  in  measures  ruinous  and  destructive  to 
their  States^  even  such  as  should  totally  annihilate  their  State  govern- 
mentSy  and  their  States  cannot  recall  them,  nor  exercise  any  control 
over  them. 

[34]  Another  consideration,  Mr.  Speaker,  it  was  thought  ought 
to  have  great  weighty  to  prove  that  the  smaller  States  cannot  depend 
on  the  Senate  for  the  preservation  of  their  rights^  either  against  large 
and  ambitious  States^  or  against  an  ambitious  and  aspiring  President. 
The  Senate,  Sir,  is  so  constituted,  that  they  are  not  only  to  compose 
one  branch  of  the  legislature,  but,  by  the  second  section  of  the  second 
article,  they  are  to  compose  a  privy  council  for  the  President;  hence, 
it  will  be  necessary,  that  they  should  be,  in  a  great  measure,  a  per- 
manent body,  constantly  residing  at  the  seat  of  government.  Seven 
years  are  esteemed  for  the  life  of  a  man;  it  can  hardly  be  supposed, 
that  a  senator,  especially  from  the  States  remote  from  the  seat  of 
empire,  will  accept  of  an  appointment  which  must  estrange  him  for 
six  years  from  his  State^  without  giving  up,  to  a  great  degree,  his 
prospects  in  his  own  State.  If  he  has  a  family,  he  will  take  his 
family  with  him  to  the  place  where  the  government  shall  be  fixed; 
that  will  become  his  home^  and  there  is  every  reason  to  expect,  that 
his  future  views  and  prospects  will  centre  in  the  favors  and  emoluments 
of  the  general  government^  or  of  the  government  of  that  State  where 
the  seat  of  empire  is  established.  In  either  case,  he  is  lost  to  his 
own  State.  If  he  places  his  future  prospects  in  the  favors  and  emolu- 
ments of  the  general  government^  he  will  become  the  dependent  and 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  I95 

creature  of  the  President^  as  the  system  enables  a  senator  to  be 
appointed  to  offices^  and,  without  the  nomination  of  the  President, 
no  appointment  can  take  place;  as  suchy  he  will  favor  the  wishes  of 
the  President,  and  concur  in  his  measures;  who,  if  he  has  no  ambi" 
tious  views  of  his  own  to  gratify,  may  be  too  favorable  to  the  ambv- 
tious  views  of  the  large  States^  who  will  have  an  undue  share  in  his 
original  appointment^  and  on  whom  he  will  be  more  dependent  after- 
wards than  on  the  States  which  are  smaller.  If  the  senator  places 
his  future  prospects  in  that  State  where  the  seat  of  empire  is  fixed, 
from  that  time  he  will  be,  in  every  question  wherein  its  particular 
interest  may  be  concerned,  the  representative  of  that  StatCy  not  of 
his  own. 

[35]  But  even  this  provision,  apparently  for  the  security  of  the 
State  governments^  inadequate  as  it  is,  is  entirely  left  at  the  mercy  of 
the  general  government;  for,  by  the  fourth  section  of  the  first  article, 
it  is  expressly  provided^  that  the  Congress  shall  have  a  power  to 
m^ke  and  alter  all  regulations  concerning  the  time  and  manner  of 
holding  elections  for  senators;  a  provision  expressly  looking  forward  to^ 
and,  /  have  no  doubt  designed  for,  the  utter  extinction  and  abolition  of  all 
State  governments;  nor  will  this,  I  believe,  be  doubted  by  any  person, 
when  I  inform  you,  that  some  of  the  warm  advocates  and  patrons 
of  the  system,  in  convention,  strenuously  opposed  the  choice  of  the 
senators  by  the  State  legislatures^  insisting^  that  the  State  governments 
ought  not  to  be  introduced  in  any  manner^  so  as  to  be  component  parts 
ofy  or  instruments  for  carrying  into  execution^  the  general  government. 
Nay,  so  far  were  the  friends  of  the  system  from  pretending  that 
they  meant  it,  or  considered  it  as  a  federal  system,  that  on  the  ques- 
tion being  proposed,  '^that  a  union  of  the  States,  merely  federal, 
ought  to  be  the  sole  object  of  the  exercise  of  the  powers  vested  in 
the  convention,"  it  was  negatived  by  a  majority  of  the  members, 
and  it  was  resolved  "that  a  national  government  ought  to  be  formed." 
Afterwards  the  word  '^  national*'  was  struck  out  by  them,  because 
they  thought  the  word  might  tend  to  alarm;  and  although,  now^ 
they  who  advocate  the  system  pretend  to  call  themselves  federalists^ 
in  convention  the  distinction  was  quite  the  reverse;  those  who 
opposed  the  system  were  there  considered  and  styled  the  federal  party y 
those  who  advocated  it,  the  antifederal, 

[36]  Viewing  it  as  a  national,  not  a  federal  government,  as  cal- 
culated and  designed  not  to  protect  and  preserve,  but  to  abolish  and 
annihilate  the  State  governments,  it  was  opposed  for  the  following 
reasons.  It  was  said,  that  this  continent  was  much  too  extensive  for 
one  national  government,  which  should  have  sufficient  power  and 
energy  to  pervade  and  hold  in  obedience  and  subjection  all  its  partSy 


196     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

consistent  with  the  enjoyment  and  preservation  of  liberty  —  that  the 
genius  and  habits  of  the  people  of  America  were  opposed  to  such 
a  government.  That  during  their  connexion  with  Great  Britain, 
they  had  been  accustomed  to  have  all  their  concerns  transacted 
within  a  narrow  circle,  their  colonial  district;  they  had  been  accus- 
tomed to  have  their  seats  of  government  near  them,  to  which  they 
might  have  access,  without  much  inconvenience,  when  their  busi- 
ness should  require  it  —  That,  at  this  time^  we  find,  if  a  county  is 
rather  large^  the  people  complain  of  the  inconvenience,  and  clamor 
for  a  division  of  their  county,  or  for  a  removal  of  the  place  where 
their  courts  are  held,  so  as  to  render  it  more  central  and  convenient. 
That  in  those  States,  the  territory  of  which  is  extensive,  as  soon  as 
the  population  increases  remote  from  the  seat  of  government,  the 
inhabitants  are  urgent  for  the  removal  of  the  seat  of  their  govern- 
ment, or  to  be  erected  into  a  new  State.  As  a  proof  of  this,  the 
inhabitants  of  the  western  parts  of  Virginia  and  North  Carolina,  of 
Vermont  and  the  province  of  Maine,  were  instances;  even  the  in- 
habitants of  the  western  parts  of  Pennsylvania,  who,  it  is  said, 
already  seriously  look  forward  to  the  time  when  they  shall  either 
be  erected  into  a  new  State,  or  have  their  seat  of  government  removed 
to  the  Susquehanna.  If  the  inhabitants  of  the  different  States 
consider  it  as  a  grievance  to  attend  a  county  courts  or  the  seat  of  their 
own  government^  when  a  little  inconvenient,  can  it  be  supposed  they 
would  ever  submit  to  have  a  national  government  established,  the 
scat  of  which  would  be  more  than  a  thousand  miles  removed  from 
some  of  them? 

[37]  It  was  insisted,  that  governments  of  a  republican  nature  are 
those  best  calculated  to  preserve  the  freedom  and  happiness  of  the 
citizen;  that  governments  of  this  kind  are  only  calculated  for  a  terri- 
tory but  small  in  its  extent;  that  the  ordy  method  by  which  an  exten- 
sive continent  like  America  could  be  connected  and  united  together, 
consistent  with  the  principles  of  freedom,  must  be  by  having  a  num^ 
ber  of  strong  and  energetic  State  governments  for  securing  and  pro- 
tecting the  rights  of  individuals  forming  those  governments,  and 
for  regulating  all  their  concerns;  and  a  strong,  energetic  federal 
government  over  those  States^  for  the  protection  and  preservation, 
and  for  regulating  the  common  concerns  of  the  State.  It  was  further 
insisted,  that,  even  if  it  was  possible  to  effect  a  total  abolition  of 
the  State  governments  at  this  time,  and  to  establish  one  general 
government  over  the  people  of  America,  it  could  not  long  subsist^ 
but  in  a  little  time  would  again  be  broken  into  a  variety  of  govern- 
ments of  a  smaller  extent,  similar,  in  some  manner,  to  the  present 
situation  of  this  continent;    the  principal  difference,  in  all  proba- 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  I97 

bility,  would  be,  that  the  governments  so  established^  being  affected 
by  some  violent  conxnUsion^  might  not  be  formed  on  principles  so 
favorable  to  liberty  as  those  of  our  present  State  governments.  That 
this  ought  to  be  an  important  consideration  to  such  of  the  States  as 
had  excellent  governments,  which  was  the  case  with  Maryland  and 
most  others,  whatever  it  might  be  to  persons  who  disapproving  of 
their  particular  State  government,  would  be  willing  to  hazard  every 
thing  to  overturn  and  destroy  it.  These  reasons.  Sir,  influenced 
me  to  vote  against  two  branches  in  the  legislature,  and  against  every 
part  of  the  system  which  was  repugnant  to  the  principles  of  a  federal 
government.^  Nor  was  there  a  single  argument  urged,  or  reason 
assigned,  which  to  my  mind  was  satisfactory,  to  prove,  that  a  good 
government  on  federal  principles  was  unattainable;  the  whole  of 
their  arguments  only  proving,  what  none  of  us  controverted,  that 
our  federal  government  as  originally  formed^  was  defective,  and 
wanted  amendment.  However,  a  majority  of  the  convention  hastily 
and  inconsiderately,  without  condescending  to  make  a  fair  trial, 
in  their  great  wisdom,  decided  that  a  kind  of  government,  which 
a  Montesquieu  and  a  Price  have  declared  the  best  calculated  of  any 
to  preserve  internal  liberty,  and  to  enjoy  external  strength  and 
security,  and  the  only  one  by  which  a  large  continent  can  be  con- 
nected and  united,  consistently  with  the  principles  of  liberty,  was 
totally  impracticable;   and  they  acted  accordingly. 

[38]  With  respect  to  that  part  of  the  second  section  of  the  first 
article,  which  relates  to  the  apportionment  of  representation  and 
direct  taxation^  there  were  considerable  objections  made  to  it,  besides 
the  great  objection  of  inequality.  It  was  urged,  that  no  principle 
could  justify  taking  slaves  into  computation  in  apportioning  the  num- 
ber of  representatives  a  State  should  have  in  the  government.  That 
it  involved  the  absurdity  of  increasing  the  power  of  a  State  in  making 
laws  for  freemen  in  proportion  as  that  State  violated  the  rights  of 
freedom.  That  it  might  be  proper  to  take  slaves  into  consideration, 
when  taxes  were  to  be  apportioned,  because  it  had  a  tendency  to 
discourage  slavery;  but  to  take  them  into  account  in  giving  repre^ 
sentation  tended  to  encourage  the  slave-trade^  and  to  make  it  the 
interest  of  the  States  to  continue  that  infamous  trajfic.  That  slaves 
could  not  be  taken  into  account  as  men  or  citizens^  because  they 
were  not  admitted  to  the  rights  of  citizens^  in  the  States  which  adopted 
or  continued  slavery.  If  they  were  to  be  taken  into  account  as 
property^  it  was  asked,  what  peculiar  circumstance  should  render 
this  property,  (of  all  others  the  most  odious  in  its  nature,)  entitled 

1  See  Appendix  A,  CCXXIII. 


198      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

to  the  high  privilege  of  conferring  consequence  and  power  in  the  govern- 
ment to  its  possessors,  rather  than  any  other  property?  and  why 
slaves  should,  as  property,  be  taken  into  account,  rather  than  horses^ 
cattUy  mules f  or  any  other  species  —  and  it  was  observed  by  an 
honorable  member  from  Massachusetts,  that  he  considered  it  as 
dishonorable  and  humiliating  to  enter  into  compact  with  the  slaves 
of  the  Southern  SiateSy  as  it  would  with  the  horses  and  mules  of  the 
Eastern,  It  was  also  objected,  that  the  numbers  of  representatives 
appointed  by  this  section,  to  be  sent  by  the  particular  States  to 
compose  the  first  legislature^  were  not  precisely  agreeable  to  the  rule 
of  representation  adopted  by  this  system,  and  that  the  numbers 
in  this  section  are  artfully  lessened  for  the  large  States,  while  the 
smaller  States  have  their  full  proportion^  in  order  to  prevent  the 
undue  influence  which  the  large  States  will  have  in  the  government 
from  being  too  apparent;  and  I  think,  Mr.  Speaker,  that  this  objec- 
tion is  well  founded.  I  have  taken  some  pains  to  obtain  information 
of  the  number  of  freemen  and  slaves  in  the  different  States,  and  I 
have  reason  to  believe,  that,  if  the  estimate  was  now  taken,  which 
is  directed,  and  one  delegate  to  be  sent  for  every  thirty  thousand 
inhabitants,  Virginia  would  have  at  least  twelve  delegates,  Massa- 
chusetts eleven^  and  Pennsylvania  ten^  instead  of  the  number  stated  in 
this  section;  whereas  the  other  States^  I  believe,  would  not  have 
more  than  the  number  there  allowed  them,  nor  would  Georgia,  most 
probably,  at  present,  send  more  than  two.  If  I  am  right,  Mr.  Speaker, 
upon  the  enumeration  being  made,  and  the  representation  being 
apportioned  according  to  the  rule  prescribed,  the  whole  number  of 
delegates  would  be  seventy-one^  thirty-six  of  which  would  be  a  quorum 
to  do  business;  the  delegates  of  Virginia,  Massachusetts,  and  Penn- 
sylvania, would  amount  to  thirty-three  of  that  quorum.  Those  three 
States  will,  therefore,  have  much  more  than  equal  power  and  influ- 
ence in  making  the  laws  and  regulations,  which  are  to  affect  this 
continent,  and  will  have  a  morcU  certainty  of  preventing  any  laws 
or  regulations  which  they  disapprove^  although  they  might  be  thought 
ever  so  necessary  by  a  great  majority  of  the  States.  It  was  further 
objected,  that  even  if  the  States  who  had  most  inhabitants  ought 
to  have  a  greater  number  of  delegates,  yet  the  number  of  delegates 
ought  not  to  be  in  exact  proportion  to  the  number  of  inhabitants^ 
because  the  influence  and  power  of  those  States  whose  delegates 
are  numerous,  will  be  greater^  when  compared  to  the  influence  and 
power  of  the  other  States,  than  the  proportion  which  the  numbers 
of  their  delegates  bear  to  each  other;  as,  for  instance,  though  Dela- 
ware has  one  delegate,  and  Virginia  but  ten^  yet  Virginia  has  more 
than  ten  times  as  much  power  and  influence  in  the  government  as 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  I99 

Delaware;  to  prove  this,  it  was  observed,  that  Virginia  would  have 
a  much  greater  chance  to  carry  any  measure,  than  any  number  of 
States  whose  delegates  were  altogether  ten,  (suppose  the  States  of 
Delaware,  Connecticut,  Rhode  Island,  and  New  Hampshire,)  since 
the  ten  delegates  from  Virginia,  in  every  thing  that  related  to  the 
interest  of  that  State,  would  act  in  unions  and  move  one  solid  and 
compact  body;  whereas,  the  delegates  of  these  four  States,  though 
collectively  equal  in  number  to  those  from  Virginia,  coming  from 
different  States,  having  different  interests,  will  be  less  likely  to  har- 
monize and  move  in  concert.  As  a  further  proof,  it  was  said,  that 
Virginia,  as  the  system  is  now  reported,  by  uniting  with  her  the 
delegates  of  four  other  States,  can  carry  a  question  against  the  sense 
and  interest  of  eight  States,  by  sixty-four  different  combinations;  the 
four  States  voting  with  Virginia  being  every  time  so  far  different,  as 
not  to  be  composed  of  the  same  four;  whereas,  the  State  of  Dela- 
ware can  only,  by  uniting  four  other  States  with  her,  carry  a  measure 
against  the  sense  of  eight  States,  by  two  different  combinations,  — 
a  mathematical  proof,  that  the  State  of  Virginia  has  thirty-two  times 
greater  chance  of  carrying  a  measure,  against  the  sense  of  eight 
States,  than  Delaware,  although  Virginia  has  only  ten  times  as  many 
delegates. 

[39]  It  was  also  shown,  that  the  idea  was  totally  fallacious, 
which  was  attempted  to  be  maintained,  that,  if  a  State  had  one 
thirteenth  part  of  the  numbers  composing  the  delegation  in  this  system, 
such  State  would  have  as  much  influence  as  under  the  articles  of 
confederation.  To  prove  the  fallacy  of  this  idea,  it  was  shown,  that, 
under  the  articles  of  confederation,  the  State  of  Maryland  had  but 
one  vote  in  thirteen,  yet  no  measure  could  be  carried  against  her 
interests  without  seven  States,  a  majority  of  the  whole,  concurring 
in  it;  whereas  in  this  system,  though  Maryland  has  six  votes,  which 
is  more  than  the  proportion  of  one  in  thirteen,  yet  five  States  may,  in 
a  variety  of  combinations,  carry  a  question  against  her  interest,  though 
seven  other  States  concur  with  her;  and  six  States,  by  a  much  greater 
number  of  combinations,  may  carry  a  measure  against  Maryland, 
united  with  six  other  States,  I  shall  here.  Sir,  just  observe,  that,  as 
the  committee  of  detail  reported  the  system,  the  delegates  from  the 
different  States  were  to  be  one  for  tv try  forty  thousand  inhabitants; 
it  was  afterwards  altered  to  one  for  every  thirty  thousand.  This 
alteration  was  made  after  I  left  the  convention,  at  the  instance  of 
whom  I  know  not;  but  it  is  evident,  that  the  alteration  is  in  favor 
of  the  States  which  have  large  and  extensive  territory,  to  increase 
their  power  and  influence  in  the  government,  and  to  the  injury  of 
the  smaller  States,  —  since  it  is  the  States  of  extensive  territory,  who 


200     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

will  most  speedily  increase  the  number  of  their  inhabitants^  as  before 
has  been  observed,  and  will,  therefore,  most  speedily  procure  an  in- 
crease to  the  number  of  their  delegates.  By  this  alteration,  Vir- 
ginia, North  Carolina,  or  Georgia,  by  obtaining  one  hundred  and 
twenty  thousand  additional  inhabitants,  will  be  entitled  to  four 
additional  delegates;  whereas,  such  State  would  only  have  been 
entitled  to  three,  il  forty  thousand  had  remained  the  number  by  which 
to  apportion  the  delegation.  As  to  that  part  of  this  section  that  re- 
lates to  direct  taxation,  there  was  also  an  objection,  for  the  following 
reasons.  It  was  said,  that  a  large  sum  of  money  was  to  be  brought 
into  the  national  treasury  by  the  duties  on  commerce,  which  would 
be  almost  wholly  paid  by  the  commercial  States;  it  would  be  unequal 
and  unjust,  that  the  sum  which  was  necessary  to  be  raised  by  direct 
taxation,  should  be  apportioned  equally  upon  all  the  States,  obliging 
the  commercial  States  to  pay  as  large  a  share  of  the  revenue  arising 
therefrom,  as  the  States  from  whom  no  revenue  had  been  drawn  by 
imposts;  since  the  wealth  and  industry  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  - 
commercial  States  will,  in  the  first  place,  be  severely  taxed  through 
their  commerce,  and  afterwards  be  equally  taxed  with  the  industry 
and  wealth  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  other  States,  who  have  paid  no 
part  of  that  revenue*,  so  that,  by  this  provision,  the  inhabitants 
of  the  commercial  States  are  in  this  system  obliged  to  bear  an  un- 
reasonable and  disproportionate  share  in  the  expenses  of  the  Union, 
and  the  payment  of  that  foreign  and  domestic  debt,  which  was 
incurred  not  more  for  the  benefit  of  the  commercial  than  of  the 
other  States. 

[40]  In  the  sixth  section  of  the  first  article,  it  is  provided,  that 
senators  and  representatives  may  be  appointed  to  any  civil  office 
under  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  except  such  as  shall  have 
been  created,  or  the  emoluments  of  which  have  been  increased,  dur- 
ing the  time  for  which  they  were  elected.  Upon  this  subject.  Sir, 
there  was  a  great  diversity  of  sentiment  among  the  members  of  the 
convention.  As  the  propositions  were  reported  by  the  committee 
of  the  whole  House,  a  senator  or  representative  could  not  be  appointed 
to  any  office  under  a  particular  State,  or  under  the  United  States, 
during  the  time  for  which  they  were  chosen,  nor  to  any  office  under 
the  United  States,  until  one  year  after  the  expiration  of  that  time. 
It  was  said,  and,  in  my  opinion  justly,  that  no  good  reason  could 
be  assigned,  why  a  senator  or  representative  should  be  incapacitated 
to  hold  an  office  in  his  own  government,  since  it  can  only  bind  him 
more  closely  to  his  State,  and  attach  him  the  more  to  its  interests, 
which,  as  its  representative,  he  is  bound  to  consult  and  sacredly 
guard,  as  far  as  is  consistent  with  the  welfare  of  the  Union;    and 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  20I 

therefore,  at  most,  would  only  add  the  additional  motive  of  gratitude 
for  discharging  his  duty;  and,  according  to  this  idea,  the  clause 
which  prevented  senators  or  delegates  from  holding  offices  in  their 
own  States,  was  rejected  by  a  considerable  majority.  But,  Sir, 
we  sacredly  endeavoured  to  preserve  all  that  part  of  the  resolution 
which  prevented  them  from  being  eligible  to  offices  under  the  United 
States;  as  we  considered  it  essentially  necessary  to  preserve  the 
integrity^  independence^  and  dignity  of  the  legislature,  and  to  secure 
its  members  from  corruption. 

[41]  I  was  in  the  number  of  those  who  were  extremely  solicitous 
to  preserve  this  part  of  the  report;  but  there  was  a  powerful  oppo- 
sition made  by  such  as  wished  the  members  of  the  legislature  to  be 
eligible  to  offices  under  the  United  States.  Three  different  times  did 
they  attempt  to  procure  an  alteration,  and  as  often  failed;  a  ma- 
jority firmly  adhering  to  the  resolution  as  reported  by  the  committee 
—  However,  an  alteration  was  at  length,  by  dint  of  perseverance, 
obtained,  even  within  the  last  twelve  days  of  the  convention;  for 
It  happened  after  I  left  Philadelphia.  As  to  the  exception,  that 
they  cannot  be  appointed  to  offices  created  by  themselves,  or  the 
emoluments  of  which  are  by  themselves  increased,  it  is  certainly  of 
little  consequence,  since  they  may  easily  evade  it  by  creating  new 
offices,  to  which  may  be  appointed  the  persons  who  fill  the  offices 
before  created,  and  thereby  vacancies  will  be  made,  which  may  be 
filled  by  the  members  who,  for  that  purpose,  have  created  the  new 
offices. 

[42]  It  is  true,  the  acceptance  of  an  office  vacates  their  seat, 
nor  can  they  be  reelected  during  their  continuance  in  office.  But 
it  was  said,  that  the  evil  would  first  take  place;  that  the  price  for 
the  office  would  be  paid  before  it  was  obtained;  that  vacating  the 
seat  of  the  person  who  was  appointed  to  office,  made  way  for  the 
admission  of  a  new  member,  who  would  come  there  as  desirous  to 
obtain  an  office  as  he  whom  he  succeeded,  and  as  ready  to  pay  the 
price  necessary  to  obtain  it;  in  fine,  that  it  would  be  only  driving 
away  the  flies  who  were  filledy  to  make  room  for  those  that  were 
hungry;  and  as  the  system  is  now  reported,  the  President  having 
the  power  to  nominate  to  all  offices^  it  must  be  evident,  that  there 
is  no  possible  security  for  the  integrity  and  independence  of  the  legis^ 
laturcj  but  that  they  are  most  unduly  placed  under  the  influence 
of  the  President,  and  exposed  to  bribery  and  corruption, 

[43]  The  seventh  section  of  this  article  was  also  the  subject  of 
contest.  It  was  thought  by  many  members  of  the  convention,  that 
it  was  very  wrong  to  confine  the  origination  of  all  revenue  bills  to 
the  House  of  Representatives,  since  the  members  of  the  Senate 


202      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

will  be  chosen  by  the  people,  as  well  as  the  members  of  the  House 
of  Delegates,  if  not  immediately^  yet  mediately^  being  chosen  by  the 
members  of  the  State  legislature,  which  members  are  elected  by  the 
people;  and  that  it  makes  no  real  difference,  whether  we  do  a  thing 
in  person^  or  by  a  deputy  or  agent  appointed  by  him  for  that  purpose. 

[44]  That  no  argument  can  be  drawn  from  the  House  of  Lords 
in  the  British  constitution,  since  they  are  neither  mediately  nor 
immediately  the  representatives  of  the  people,  but  are  one  of  the 
three  estates  composing  that  kingdom,  having  hereditary  rights  and 
privileges  distinct  from,  and  independent  ofy  the  people, 

[45]  That  it  may,  and  probably  will,  be  a  future  source  of  dis- 
pute and  controversy  between  the  two  branches,  what  are  or  are 
not  revenue  bills,  and  the  more  so  as  they  are  not  defined  in  the 
constitution;  which  controversies  may  be  difficult  to  settle,  and 
may  become  serious  in  their  consequences,  there  being  no  power 
in  the  constitution  to  decide  upon,  or  authorized,  in  cases  of  abso- 
lute necessity,  to  terminate  them  by  a  prorogation  or  dissolution 
of  either  of  the  branches;  a  remedy  provided  in  the  British  constitu- 
tion, where  the  King  has  that  power,  which  has  been  found  neces- 
sary at  times  to  be  exercised,  in  case  of  violent  dissensions  between 
the  Lords  and  Commons  on  the  subject  of  money  bills. 

[46]  That  every  regulation  of  commerce,  every  law  relative  to 
excises,  stamps,  the  post-office,  the  imposing  of  taxes  and  their 
collection,  the  creation  of  courts  and  offices;  in  fine,  every  law  for 
the  Union,  if  enforced  by  any  pecuniary  sanctions,  as  they  would 
tend  to  bring  money  into  the  continental  treasury,  might,  and  no 
doubt  would,  be  considered  a  revenue  act;  that,  consequently,  the 
Senate,  the  members  of  which  will,  it  may  be  presumed,  be  the  most 
select  in  their  choice,  and  consist  of  men  the  most  enlightened,  and 
of  the  greatest  abilities,  who,  from  the  duration  of  their  appoint- 
ment and  the  permanency  of  their  body,  will  probably  be  best  ac- 
quainted with  the  common  concerns  of  the  States,  and  with  the 
means  of  providing  for  them,  will  be  rendered  almost  useless  as  a 
part  of  the  legislature;  and  that  they  will  have  but  little  to  do  in  that 
capacity,  except  patiently  to  wait  the  proceedings  of  the  House 
of  Representatives,  and  afterwards  examine  and  approve,  or  pro- 
pose amendments. 

[47]  There  were  also  objections  to  that  part  of  this  section  which 
relates  to  the  negative  of  the  President.  There  were  some  who 
thought  no  good  reason  could  be  assigned  for  giving  the  President 
a  negative  of  any  kind.  Upon  the  principle  of  a  check  to  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  legislature,  it  was  said  to  be  unnecessary;  that  the 
two  branches  having  a  control  over  each  other's  proceedings,  and 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  2O3 

the  Senate  being  chosen  by  the  State  legislatures,  and  being  com- 
posed of  members  from  the  different  States^  there  would  always  be  a 
sufficient  guard  against  measures  being  hastily  or  rashly  adopted; 
that  the  President  was  not  likely  to  have  more  wisdom  or  integrity 
than  the  senators^  or  any  of  themy  or  to  better  know  or  consult  the  inter- 
est of  the  States,  than  any  member  of  the  Senate,  so  as  to  be  entitled 
to  a  negative  on  that  principle;  and  as  to  the  precedent  from  the 
British  constitution,  (for  we  were  eternally  troubled  with  argu- 
ments and  precedents  from  the  British  government,)  it  was  said  it 
would  not  apply.  The  King  of  Great  Britain  there  composed  one 
of  the  three  estates  of  the  kingdom;  he  was  possessed  of  rights  and 
privileges  as  such,  distinct  from  the  Lords  and  Commons;  rights 
and  privileges  which  descended  to  his  heirsy  and  were  inheritable  by 
them;  that,  for  the  preservation  of  these,  it  was  rucessary  he  should 
have  a  negative,  but  that  this  was  not  the  case  with  the  President 
of  the  United  States,  who  was  no  more  than  an  officer  of  government, 
the  sovereignty  was  not  in  Aim,  but  in  the  legislature.  And  it  was 
further  urged,  even  if  he  was  allowed  a  negative,  it  ought  not  to 
be  of  so  great  extent  as  that  given  by  the  system,  since  his  single 
voice  is  to  countervail  the  whole  of  either  branch,  and  any  number 
less  than  two  thirds  of  the  other;  however,  a  majority  of  the  conven- 
tion was  of  a  different  opinion,  and  adopted  it  as  it  now  makes  a 
part  of  the  system. 

[48]  By  the  eighth  section  of  this  article,  Q>ngress  is  to  have 
power  to  lay  and  collect  taxeSy  duties,  imposts,  and  excises.  When 
we  met  in  convention  after  our  adjournment,  to  receive  the  report 
of  the  committee  of  detail,  the  members  of  that  committee  were 
requested  to  inform  us,  what  powers  were  meant  to  be  vested  in 
Congress  by  the  word  duties  in  this  section,  since  the  word  imposts 
extended  to  duties  on  goods  imported,  and  by  another  part  of  the 
system  no  duties  on  exports  were  to  be  laid.  In  answer  to  this  in- 
quiry, we  were  informed,  that  it  was  meant  to  give  the  general 
government  the  power  of  laying  stamp  duties  on  paper,  parchment, 
and  vellum.  We  then  proposed  to  have  the  power  inserted  in  express 
words,  lest  disputes  hereafter  might  arise  on  the  subject,  and  that 
the  meaning  might  be  understood  by  all  who  were  to  be  affected 
by  it;  but  to  this  it  was  objected,  because  it  was  said,  that  the  word 
stamp  would  probably  sound  odiously  in  the  ears  of  many  of  the 
inhabitants,  and  be  a  cause  of  objection.  By  the  power  of  imposing 
stamp  duties,  the  Congress  will  have  a  right  to  declare,  that  no  wills, 
deeds,  or  other  instruments  of  writing  shall  be  good  and  valid,  without 
being  stamped;  that,  without  being  reduced  to  writing  and  being 
stamped,  no  bargain,  sale,  transfer  of  property,  or  contract  of  any 


204      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

kind  or  nature  whatsoever,  shall  be  binding;  and  also  that  no  exempli- 
fications of  recordsy  depositions^  or  probates  of  any  kind,  shall  be 
received  in  evidence,  unless  they  have  the  same  solemnity.  They 
may  likewise  oblige  all  proceedings  of  a  judicial  nature  to  be  stampedy 
to  give  them  effect.  Those  stamp  duties  may  be  imposed  to  any 
amount  they  please;  and,  under  the  pretence  of  securing  the  col- 
lection  of  these  duties,  and  to  prevent  the  laws  which  imposed  them 
from  being  evaded,  the  Congress  may  bring  the  decision  of  all  ques- 
tions relating  to  the  conveyance^  disposition^  and  rights  of  property, 
and  every  question  relating  to  contracts  between  man  and  man,  into 
the  courts  of  the  general  government  —  Their  inferior  courts  in  the 
first  instance,  and  the  superior  court  by  appeal.  By  the  power  to 
lay  and  collect  imposts,  they  may  impose  duties  on  any  or  every 
article  of  commerce  imported  into  these  States,  to  what  amount  they 
please.  By  the  power  to  lay  excises^  a  power  very  odious  in  its 
nature,  since  it  authorizes  officers  to  go  into  your  houseSj  your  kitch- 
ens, your  cellarsy  and  to  examine  into  your  private  concerns,  the 
Congress  may  impose  duties  on  every  article  of  use  or  consumption, 
—  on  the  food  that  we  eat,  on  the  liquors  we  drink,  on  the  clothes 
that  we  wear,  the  glass  which  enlightens  our  houses,  or  the  hearths 
necessary  for  our  warmth  and  comfort.  By  the  power  to  lay  and 
collect  taxes,  they  may  proceed  to  direct  taxation  on  every  individual, 
either  by  a  capitation  tax  on  their  heads,  or  an  assessment  on  their 
property.  By  this  part  of  the  section  therefore,  the  government 
has  power  to  lay  what  duties  they  please  on  goods  imported;  to  lay 
what  duties  they  please,  afterwards,  on  whatever  we  use  or  consume; 
to  impose  stamp  duties  to  what  amount  they  please,  and  in  whatever 
case  they  please;  afterwards  to  impose  on  the  people  direct  taxes,  by 
capitation  tax,  or  by  assessment,  to  what  amount  they  choose;  and 
thus  to  sluice  them  at  every  vein,  as  long  as  they  have  a  drop  of  blood, 
without  any  control,  limitation,  or  restraint;  while  all  the  officers  for 
collecting  these  taxes,  stamp  duties,  imposts,  and  excises,  are  to  be 
appointed  by  the  general  government,  under  its  directions,  not  accoun- 
table to  the  States;  nor  is  there  even  a  security,  that  they  shall  be 
citizens  of  the  respective  States  in  which  they  are  to  exercise  their 
offices.  At  the  same  time,  the  construction  of  every  law  imposing  any 
and  all  these  taxes  and  duties,  and  directing  the  collection  of  them, 
and  every  question  arising  thereon,  and  on  the  conduct  of  the  officers 
appointed  to  execute  these  laws  and  to  collect  these  taxes  and  duties, 
so  various  in  their  kinds,  are  taken  away  from  the  courts  of  justice  of 
the  different  States,  and  confined  to  the  courts  of  the  general  govern- 
ment, there  to  be  heard  and  determined  by  judges  holding  their  offices 
under  the  appointment  not  of  the  States,  but  of  the  general  government. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  20S 

[49]  Many  of  the  members,  and  myself  among  the  number, 
thought,  that  the  States  were  much  better  judges  of  the  circumstances 
of  their  citizens,  and  what  sum  of  money  could  be  collected  from  them 
by  direct  taxation^  and  of  the  manner  in  which  it  could  be  raised, 
with  the  greatest  ease  and  convenience  to  their  citizens,  than  the 
general  government  could  be;  and  that  the  general  government 
ought  not  to  have  the  power  of  laying  direct  taxes  in  any  case  but 
in  that  of  the  delinquency  of  a  State.  Agreeably  to  this  sentiment, 
I  brought  in  a  proposition,  on  which  a  vote  of  the  convention  was 
taken.  The  proposition  was  as  follows:  "And  whenever  the  legis- 
lature of  the  United  States  shall  find  it  necessary  that  revenue  should 
be  raised  by  direct  taxation^  having  apportioned  the  same  by  the 
above  rule,  requisitions  shall  be  made  of  the  respective  States  to 
pay  into  the  continental  treasury  their  respective  quotas,  taithin  a 
time  in  the  said  requisition  to  be  specified;  and  in  case  of  any  of  the 
States  failing  to  comply  with  such  requisition,  then,  and  then  on/y, 
to  have  power  to  devise  and  pass  acts  directing  the  mode  and  author- 
izing the  collection  of  the  same."  Had  this  proposition  been  acceded 
to,  the  dangerous  and  oppressive  power  in  the  general  government^ 
of  imposing  direct  taxes  on  the  inhabitants,  which  it  now  enjoys 
in  all  casesy  would  have  been  only  vested  in  it  in  case  of  the  non- 
compliance of  a  State,  as  a  punishment  for  its  delinquency^  and  would 
have  ceased  the  moment  that  the  State  complied  with  the  requisition. 
But  the  proposition  was  rejected  by  a  majority,  consistently  with 
their  aim  and  desire  of  increasing  the  power  of  the  general  government^ 
as  far  as  possible^  and  destroying  the  powers  and  influence  of  the  States, 
And,  though  there  is  a  provision,  that  all  duties,  imposts,  and  excises 
shall  be  uniform,  that  is,  to  be  laid  to  the  same  amount  on  the  same 
articles  in  each  State,  yet  this  will  not  prevent  Q>ngress  from  having 
it  in  their  power  to  cause  them  to  fall  very  unequal^  and  much  heavier 
on  some  States  than  on  others^  because  these  duties  may  be  laid  on 
articles  but  little  or  not  at  all  used  in  some  States,  and  of  absolute 
necessity  for  the  use  and  consumption  of  others;  in  which  case,  the 
first  would  pay  little  or  no  part  of  the  revenue  arising  therefrom, 
while  the  whoUj  or  nearly  the  whole  of  it,  would  be  paid  by  the  lasty 
to  wit,  the  States  which  use  and  consume  the  articles  on  which  the 
imposts  and  excises  are  laid. 

[50]  By  our  original  articles  of  confederation,  the  Congress 
have  a  power  to  borrow  money  and  emit  bills  of  credit,  on  the  credit 
of  the  United  States;  agreeably  to  which,  was  the  report  on  this 
system  as  made  by  the  committee  of  detail.  When  we  came  to  this 
part  of  the  report,  a  motion  was  made  to  strike  out  the  words  "to 
emit  bills  of  credit."     Against  the  motion  we  urged,  that  it  would 


206     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

be  improper  to  deprive  the  Q>ngres8  of  that  power;  that  it  would 
be  a  novelty  unprecedented  to  establish  a  government  which  should 
not  have  such  authority;  that  it  was  impossible  to  look  forward 
into  futurity  so  far  as  to  decide,  that  events  might  not  happen, 
that  should  render  the  exercise  of  such  a  power  absolutely  necessary; 
and  that  we  doubted,  whether,  if  a  war  should  take  place,  it  would 
be  possible  for  this  country  to  defend  itself,  without  having  recourse 
to  paper  creditj  in  which  case,  there  would  be  a  necessity  of  becoming 
a  prey  to  our  enemies ^  or  violating  the  constitution  of  our  government; 
and  that,  considering  the  administration  of  the  government  would 
be  principally  in  the  hands  of  the  wealthy,  there  could  be  little  rea- 
son to  fear  an  abtise  of  the  powers  by  an  unnecessary  or  injurious  exer- 
cise of  it.  But,  Sir,  a  majority  of  the  convention,  being  wise  beyond 
every  event,  and  being  willing  to  risk  any  political  evil,  rather 
than  admit  the  idea  of  a  paper  emission,  in  any  possible  event,  re- 
fused to  trust  this  authority  to  a  government,  to  which  they  were 
lavishing  the  must  unlimited  powers  of  taxation^  and  to  the  mercy 
of  which  they  were  willing  blindly  to  trust  the  liberty  and  property 
of  the  citizens  of  every  State  in  the  Union;  and  they  erased  that  clause 
from  the  system.  Among  other  powers  given  to  this  government 
in  the  eighth  section,  it  has  that  of  appointing  tribunals  inferior 
to  the  Supreme  Court,  To  this  power  there  was  an  opposition.  It 
was  urged,  that  there  was  no  occasion  for  inferior  courts  of  the 
general  government  to  be  appointed  in  the  different  States,  and  that 
such  ought  not  to  be  admitted  —  That  the  different  State  judiciaries 
in  the  respective  States  would  be  competent  to,  and  sufficient  for^  the 
cognizance,  in  the  first  instance^  of  all  cases  that  should  arise  under 
the  laws  of  the  general  government,  which,  being  by  this  system 
made  the  supreme  law  of  the  States,  would  be  binding  on  the  differ- 
ent State  judiciaries  —  That,  by  giving  an  appeal  to  the  Supreme 
Qjurt  of  the  United  States,  the  general  government  would  have  a 
sufficient  check  over  their  decisions,  and  security  for  the  enforcing 
of  their  laws  —  That  to  have  inferior  courts  appointed  under  the 
authority  of  Congress  in  the  different  States,  would  eventually 
absorb  and  swallow  up  the  State  judiciaries^  by  drawing  all  business 
from  them  to  the  courts  of  the  general  government,  which  the  exten- 
sive and  undefined  powers,  legislative  and  judicial,  of  which  it  is 
possessed,  would  easily  enable  it  to  do  —  That  it  would  unduly  and 
dangerously  increase  the  weight  and  influence  of  Congress  in  the 
several  States^  be  productive  of  a  prodigious  number  of  offi^ersj  and 
be  attended  with  an  enormous  additional  and  unnecessary  expense  — 
That  the  judiciaries  of  the  respective  States,  not  having  power  to 
decide  upon  the  laws  of  the  general  government,  but  the  determina- 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  207 

tion  of  those  laws  being  confined  to  the  judiciaries  appointed  under 
the  authority  of  Congress,  in  the  first  instance^  as  well  as  on  appeal^ 
there  would  be  a  necessity  for  judges  or  magistrates  of  the  general 
government,  and  those  to  a  considerable  number^  in  each  county  of 
every  State  —  That  there  would  be  a  necessity  for  courts  to  be  holden 
by  them  in  each  county,  and  that  these  courts  would  stand  in  need 
of  all  the  proper  officers,  such  as  sheriffs^  clerks^  and  others,  commis- 
sioned under  the  authority  of  the  general  government  —  In  fine, 
that  the  administration  of  justice,  as  it  will  relate  to  the  laws  of  the 
general  government,  would  require  in  each  State  all  the  magistrates, 
courts,  officers,  and  expense,  which  is  now  found  necessary  in  the 
respective  States,  for  the  administration  of  justice  as  it  relates  to 
the  laws  of  the  State  governments.  But  here,  again,  we  were  over- 
ruled by  a  majority,  who,  assuming  it  as  a  principle^  that  the  general 
government  and  the  State  Governments  (as  long  as  they  should 
exist)  would  be  at  perpetual  variance  and  enmity^  and  that  their 
interests  would  constantly  be  opposed  to  each  other,  insisted,  for 
that  reason,  that  the  State  judges^  being  citizens  of  their  respective 
States,  and  holding  their  commissions  under  them,  ought  not,  though 
acting  on  oath,  to  be  intrusted  with  the  administration  of  the  laws  of 
the  general  government. 

[51]  By  the  eighth  section  of  the  first  article,  the  Congress  have 
also  the  power  given  them  to  raise  and  support  armies^  without  any 
limitation  as  to  numbers,  and  without  any  restriction  in  time  of  peace. 
Thus,  Sir,  this  plan  of  government,  instead  of  guarding  against  a 
standing  army,  that  engine  of  arbitrary  potver,  which  has  so  often 
and  so  successfully  been  used  for  the  subversion  of  freedom,  has  in 
its  formation  given  it  an  express  and  constitutional  sanction,  and  hath 
provided  for  its  introduction;  nor  could  this  be  prevented.  I  took 
the  sense  of  the  convention  on  a  proposition,  by  which  the  Congress 
should  not  have  power,  in  time  of  peace,  to  keep  embodied  more 
than  a  certain  number  of  regular  troops  that  number  to  be  ascer- 
tained by  what  should  be  considered  a  respectable  peace  establishment. 
This  proposition  was  rejected  by  a  majority;  it  being  their  deter- 
mination, that  the  power  of  Congress  to  keep  up  a  standing  army, 
even  in  peace,  should  only  be  restrained  by  their  will  and  pleasure, 

[52]  This  section  proceeds  further  to  give  a  power  to  the  Congress 
to  provide  for  the  calling  forth  the  militia,  to  execute  the  laws  of 
the  Union,  suppress  insurrections,  and  repel  invasions.  As  to  giving 
such  a  power,  there  was  no  objection;  but  it  was  thought  by  some, 
that  this  power  ought  to  be  given  with  certain  restrictions.  It  was 
thought,  that  not  more  than  a  certain  part  of  the  militia  of  any 
one  State  ought  to  be  obliged  to  march  out  of  the  same,  or  be  employed 


208      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

out  of  the  same,  at  any  on^  timej  without  the  consent  of  the  legis- 
lature of  such  State.  This  amendment  I  endeavoured  to  obtain;  but 
it  met  with  the  same  fate  which  attended  almost  every  attempt  to 
limit  the  powers  given  to  the  general  government,  and  constitution- 
ally to  guard  against  their  abuse^  it  was  not  adopted.  As  it  now 
stands,  the  Congress  will  have  the  power,  if  they  please,  to  march 
the  whole  militia  of  Maryland  to  the  remotest  part  of  the  Union,  and 
keep  them  in  service  as  long  as  they  think  proper,  without  being 
in  any  respect  dependent  upon  the  Government  of  Maryland  for  this 

unlimited   exercise  of  power  over   its   citizens Jll  of  whom^ 

from  the  lowest  to  the  greatest^  may,  during  such  service,  be  sub- 
jected to  military  law,  and  tied  up  and  whipped  at  the  halbert^  like 
the  meanest  of  slaves, 

[53I  By  the  next  paragraph.  Congress  is  to  have  the  power  to 
provide  for  organizing^  armings  and  disciplining  the  militia^  and  for 
governing  such  part  of  them  as  may  be  employed  in  the  service  of  the 
United  States. 

[54]  For  this  extraordinary  provision,  by  which  the  militia^  the 
only  defence  and  protection  which  the  State  can  have  for  the  security 
of  their  rights  against  arbitrary  encroachments  of  the  general  govern- 
ment, is  taken  entirely  out  of  the  power  of  their  respective  States,  and 
placed  under  the  power  of  Congress,  it  was  speciously  assigned  as 
a  reason,  that  the  general  government  would  cause  the  militia  to 
be  better  regulated  and  better  disciplined  than  the  State  govern- 
ments, and  that  it  would  be  proper  for  the  whole  militia  of  the  Union 
to  have  a  uniformity  in  their  arms  and  exercise.  To  this  it  was 
answered,  that  the  reason,  however  specious,  was  not  fust;  that  it 
would  be  absurd,  the  militia  of  the  western  settlements,  who  were 
exposed  to  an  Indian  enemy,  should  either  be  confined  to  the  same 
arms  or  exercise  as  the  militia  of  the  eastern  or  middle  States;  that 
the  same  penalties  which  would  be  sufficient  to  enforce  an  obedi- 
ence to  militia  laws  in  some  States,  would  be  totally  disregarded 
in  others;  that,  leaving  the  power  to  the  several  States,  they  would 
respectively  best  know  the  situation  and  circumstances  of  their 
citizens,  and  the  regulations  that  would  be  necessary  and  suflicient 
to  effect  a  well-regulated  militia  in  each;  that  we  were  satisfied  the 
militia  had  heretofore  been  as  well  disciplined  as  if  they  had  been 
under  the  regulations  of  Congress,  and  that  the  States  would  now 
have  an  additional  motive  to  keep  their  militia  in  proper  order,  and 
fit  for  service,  as  it  would  be  the  only  chance  to  preserve  their  existence 
against  a  general  government  armed  with  powers  sufficient  to  destroy 
them. 

[55]  These  observations.  Sir,  procured  from  some  of  the  members 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  209 

■ 

an  open  avowal  of  those  reasons,  by  which  we  believed  before  that 
they  were  actuated.  They  said,  that,  as  the  States  would  be  opposed 
to  the  general  government,  and  at  enmity  with  it,  which,  as  I  have 
already  observed,  they  assumed  as  a  principle^  if  the  militia  was 
under  the  control  and  the  authority  of  the  respective  States,  it  would 
enable  them  to  thwart  and  oppose  the  general  government.  They 
said,  the  States  ought  to  be  at  the  mercy  of  the  general  government, 
and,  therefore,  that  the  militia  ought  to  be  put  under  its  power, 
and  not  suffered  to  remain  under  the  power  of  the  respective  States. 
In  answer  to  these  declarations,  it  was  urged,  that,  if  after  having 
retained  to  the  general  government  the  great  powers  already  granted, 
and  among  those,  that  of  raising  and  keeping  up  regular  troops 
without  limitations,  the  power  over  the  militia  should  be  taken  away 
from  the  StateSy  and  also  given  to  the  general  government,  it  ought 
to  be  considered  as  the  last  coup  de  grace  to  the  State  governments; 
that  it  must  be  the  most  convincing  proof,  the  advocates  of  this 
system  design  the  destruction  of  the  State  governments,  and  that  no 
professions  to  the  contrary  ought  to  be  trusted;  and  that  every  State 
in  the  Union  ought  to  reject  such  a  system  with  indignation,  since, 
if  the  general  government  should  attempt  to  oppress  and  enslave 
them,  they  could  not  have  any  possible  means  of  self-defence; 
because,  the  proposed  system  taking  away  from  the  States  the  right 
of  organizing,  arming,  and  disciplining  the  militia,  the  first  attempt 
made  by  a  State  to  put  the  militia  in  a  situation  to  counteract  the 
arbitrary  measures  of  the  general  government  would  be  construed 
into  an  act  of  rebellion  or  treason;  and  Congress  would  instantly  march 
their  troops  into  the  State.  It  was  further  observed  that,  when  a 
government  wishes  to  deprive  its  citizens  of  freedom,  and  reduce 
them  to  slavery^  it  generally  makes  use  of  a  standing  army  for  that 
purpose,  and  leaves  the  militia  in  a  situation  as  contemptible  as 
possible,  lest  they  might  oppose  its  arbitrary  designs;  that,  in  this 
system,  we  give  the  general  government  every  provision  it  could 
wish  for,  and  even  invite  it  to  subvert  the  liberties  of  the  States  and 
their  citizens;  since  we  give  it  the  right  to  increase  and  keep  up  a 
standing  army  as  numerous  as  it  would  wish,  and,  by  placing  the 
militia  under  its  power,  enable  it  to  leave  the  militia  totally  unorgan- 
izedy  undisciplinedy  and  even  to  disarm  them;  while  the  citizens y  so 
far  from  complaining  of  this  neglecty  might  even  esteem  it  a  favor 
in  the  general  government,  as  thereby  they  would  be  freed  from  the 
burden  of  militia  duties,  and  left  to  their  own  private  occupations 
or  pleasures.  However,  all  arguments,  and  every  reason  that  could 
be  urged  on  this  subject,  as  well  as  on  many  others,  were  obliged  to 
yield  to  one  that  was  unanswerable^  —  a  majority  upon  the  division. 


2IO     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

[56]  By  the  ninik  section  of  this  article,  the  importation  of  such 
persons  as  any  of  the  States  now  existing  shall  think  proper  to  admit, 
shall  not  be  prohibited  prior  to  the  year  one  thousand  eight  hundred 
and  eight;  but  a  duty  may  be  imposed  on  such  importation,  not 
exceeding  ten  dollars  for  each  person. 

[57]  The  design  of  this  clause  is  to  prevent  the  general  govern- 
ment from  prohibiting  the  importation  of  slaves;  but  the  same 
reasons  which  caused  them  to  strike  out  the  word  "national,'*  and 
not  admit  the  word  ^*  stamps ^^  influenced  them  here  to  guard  against 
the  word  **  slaves.**  They  anxiously  sought  to  avoid  the  admission 
of  expressions  which  might  be  odious  in  the  ears  of  Americans, 
although  they  were  willing  to  admit  into  their  system  those  things 
which  the  expressions  signified.  And  hence  it  is,  that  the  clause 
is  so  worded,  as  really  to  authorize  the  general  government  to  im- 
pose a  duty  of  ten  dollars  on  every  foreigner  who  comes  into  a  State 
to  become  a  citizen,  whether  he  comes  absolutely  free,  or  qualifiedly 
so,  as  a  servant;  although  this  is  contrary  to  the  design  of  the  framers, 
and  the  duty  was  only  meant  to  extend  to  the  importation  of  slaves. 

[58]  This  clause  was  the  subject  of  a  great  diversity  of  sentiment 
in  the  convention.  As  the  system  was  reported  by  the  committee 
of  detail,  the  provision  was  general,  that  such  importation  should 
not  be  prohibited,  without  confining  it  to  any  particular  period. 
This  was  rejected  by  eight  States,  —  Georgia,  South  Carolina,  and, 
I  think.  North  Carolina,  voting  for  it. 

[59]  We  were  then  told  by  the  delegates  of  the  two  first  of  those 
States,  that  their  States  would  never  agree  to  a  system^  which  put 
it  in  the  power  of  the  general  government  to  prevent  the  importation 
of  slaves,  and  that  they,  as  delegates  from  those  States,  must  with- 
hold their  assent  from  such  a  system. 

[60]  A  committee  of  one  member  from  each  State  was  chosen 
by  ballot,  to  take  this  part  of  the  system  under  their  consideration, 
and  to  endeavour  to  agree  upon  some  report,  which  should  recon- 
cile those  States.  To  this  committee  also  was  referred  the  following 
proposition,  which  had  been  reported  by  the  committee  of  detail, 
to  wit;  "No  navigation  act  shall  be  passed  without  the  assent  of 
two  thirds  of  the  members  present  in  each  House";  a  proposition 
which  the  staple  and  commercial  States  were  solicitous  to  retain^ 
lest  their  commerce  should  be  placed  too  much  under  the  power  of 
the  eastern  States;  but  which  these  last  States  were  as  anxious  to 
reject.  This  committee,  of  which  also  I  had  the  honor  to  be  a  mem- 
ber, met  and  took  under  their  .consideration  the  subjects  committed 
to  them.  I  found  the  eastern  States,  notwithstanding  their  aversion 
to  slavery f  were  very  willing  to  indulge  the  southern  States,  at  least 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  211 

with  a  temporary  liberty  to  prosecute  the  slave-tradey  provided  the 
southern  States  would,  in  their  turn,  gratify  them,  by  laying  no 
restriction  on  tuwigation  acts;  and  after  a  very  little  time  the  commit- 
tee, by  a  great  majority,  agreed  on  a  report,  by  which  the  general 
government  was  to  be  prohibited  from  preventing  the  importation 
of  slaves  for  a  limited  time,  and  the  restrictive  clause  relative  to 
navigation  acts  was  to  be  omitted. 

[6i]  This  report  was  adopted  by  a  majority  of  the  convention, 
but  not  without  considerable  opposition.  It  was  said,  that  we  had 
just  assumed  a  place  among  independent  nations,  in  consequence  of 
our  opposition  to  the  attempts  of  Great  Britain  to  enslave  us;  that 
this  opposition  was  grounded  upon  the  preservation  of  those  rights 
to  which  God  and  nature  had  entitled  kj,  not  in  particular,  but  in 
common  with  edl  the  rest  of  mankind;  that  we  had  appealed  to  the 
Supreme  Being  for  his  assistance j  as  the  God  of  freedom,  who  could 
not  but  approve  our  eiforts  to  preserve  the  rights  which  he  had  thus 
imparted  to  his  creatures;  that  now,  when  we  scarcely  had  risen 
from  our  knees,  from  supplicating  his  aid  and  protection,  in  forming 
our  government  over  a  free  people,  a  government  formed  pretendedly 
on  the  principles  of  liberty  and  for  its  preservation,  —  in  that  govern- 
ment, to  have  a  provision  not  only  putting  it  out  of  its  power  to 
restrain  and  prevent  the  slave-trade,  but  even  encouraging  that  most 
infamous  traffic,  by  giving  the  States  power  and  influence  in  the  Union, 
in  proportion  as  they  cruelly  and  wantonly  sport  with  the  rights  of  their 
fellow  creatures,  ought  to  be  considered  as  a  solemn  mockery  of,  and 
insult  to  that  God  whose  protection  we  had  then  implored,  and  could 
not  fail  to  hold  us  up  in  detestation,  and  render  us  contemptible  to  every 
true  friend  of  liberty  in  the  world.  It  was  said,  it  ought  to  be  con- 
sidered that  national  crimes  can  only  be,  and  frequently  are  punished 
in  this  world,  by  national  punishments;  and  that  the  continuance 
of  the  slave-trade,  and  thus  giving  it  a  national  sanction  and  en- 
couragement, ought  to  be  considered  as  justly  exposing  us  to  the  dis- 
pleasure and  vengeance  of  Him,  who  is  equally  Lord  of  all,  and  who 
views  with  equal  eye  the  poor  African  slave  and  his  American  master. 

[62]  It  was  urged,  that,  by  this  system,  we  were  giving  the  gen- 
eral government  full  and  absolute  power  to  regulate  commerce, 
under  which  general  power  it  would  have  a  right  to  restrain,  or  totally 
prohibit,  the  slave-trade-,  it  must,  therefore,  appear  to  the  world 
absurd  and  disgraceful  to  the  last  degree,  that  we  should  except 
from  the  exercise  of  that  power,  the  only  branch  of  commerce  which 
is  unjustifiable  in  its  nature,  and  contrary  to  the  rights  of  mankind; 
that,  on  the  contrary,  we  ought  rather  to  prohibit  expressly  in  our 
constitution,  the  further  importation  of  slaves;   and  to  authorize  the 


212      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

general  government,  from  time  to  time,  to  make  such  regulations 
as  should  be  thought  most  advantageous  for  the  gradual  abolition 
of  slavery^  and  the  emancipation  of  the  slaves  which  are  already  in 
the  States:  That  slavery  is  inconsistent  with  the  genius  of  repub- 
licanisniy  and  has  a  tendency  to  destroy  those  principles  on  which 
it  is  supported^  as  it  lessens  the  sense  of  the  equal  rights  of  mankind^ 
and  habituates  us  to  tyranny  and  oppression. 

[63]  It  was  further  urged  that,  by  this  system  of  government, 
every  State  is  to  be  protected  both  from  foreign  invasion  and  from 
domestic  insurrections;  that,  from  this  consideration,  it  was  of  the 
utmost  importance  it  should  have  a  power  to  restrain  the  importa- 
tion of  slaves;  since  in  proportion  as  the  number  of  slaves  are  in- 
creased in  any  State,  in  the  same  proportion  the  State  is  weakened^ 
and  exposed  to  foreign  invasion  or  domestic  insurrection,  and  by 
so  much  less  will  it  be  able  to  protect  itself  against  either;  and,  there- 
fore, will  by  so  much  the  more  want  aid  from,  and  be  a  burden  to 
the  Union.  It  was  further  said,  that  as,  in  this  system,  we  were 
giving  the  general  government  a  power  under  the  idea  of  national 
character,  or  national  interest,  to  regulate  even  our  weights  and 
measures,  and  have  prohibited  all  possibility  of  emitting  paper  money, 
and  passing  instalment  laws,  &c.,  it  must  appear  still  more  extraor- 
dinary, that  we  should  prohibit  the  government  from  interfering 
with  the  slave-trade,  than  which,  nothing  could  so  materially  affect 
both  our  national  honor  and  interest.  These  reasons  influenced  me, 
both  on  the  committee  and  in  convention,  most  decidedly  to  oppose 
and  vote  against  the  clause  as  it  now  makes  a  part  of  the  system. 

[64]  You  will  perceive.  Sir,  not  only  that  the  general  government 
is  prohibited  from  interfering  in  the  slave-trade  before  the  year 
eighteen  hundred  and  eight,  but  that  there  is  no  provision  in  the 
constitution  that  it  shall  afterwards  be  prohibited,  nor  any  security 
that  such  prohibition  will  ever  take  place;  and  I  think  there  is 
great  reason  to  believe,  that,  if  the  importation  of  slaves  is  permitted 
until  the  year  eighteen  hundred  and  eight,  it  will  not  be  prohibited 
afterwards.  At  this  time,  we  do  not  generally  hold  this  commerce 
in  so  great  abhorrence  as  we  have  done.  When  our  own  liberties 
were  at  stake,  we  warmly  felt  for  the  common  rights  of  men.  The 
danger  being  thought  to  be  past,  which  threatened  ourselves,  we  are 
daily  growing  more  insensible  to  those  rights.  In  those  States  which 
have  restrained  or  prohibited  the  importation  of  slaves,  it  is  only 
done  by  legislative  acts,  which  may  be  repealed.  When  those 
States  find,  that  they  must,  in  their  national  character  and  connexion, 
suffer  in  the  disgrace,  and  share  in  the  inconveniences  attendant 
upon  that  detestable  and  iniquitous  traffic,  they  may  be  desirous 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  2I3 

also  to  share  in  the  benefits  arising  from  it;  and  the  odium  attending 
it  will  be  greatly  effaced  by  the  sanction  which  is  given  to  it  in  the 
general  government. 

[65]  By  the  next  paragraph,  the  general  government  is  to  have 
a  power  of  suspending  the  habeas  corpus  acty  in  cases  of  rebellion  or 
invasion, 

[66]  As  the  State  governments  have  a  power  of  suspending  the 
habeas  corpus  act  in  those  cases,  it  was  said,  there  could  be  no 'reason 
for  giving  such  a  power  to  the  general  government;  since  whenever 
the  State  which  is  invaded,  or  in  which  an  insurrection  takes  place, 
finds  its  safety  requires  it,  it  will  make  use  of  that  power.  And  it 
was  urged,  that  if  we  gave  this  power  to  the  general  government,  it 
would  be  an  engine  of  oppression  in  its  hands;  since,  whenever  a 
State  should  oppose  its  views,  however  arbitrary  and  unconstitu- 
tional, and  refuse  submission  to  them,  the  general  government  may 
declare  it  to  be  an  act  of  rebellion^  and,  suspending  the  habeas  corpus 
act,  may  seize  upon  the  persons  of  those  advocates  of  freedom^  who 
have  had  virtue  and  resolution  enough  to  excite  the  opposition,  and 
may  imprison  them  during  its  pleasure,  in  the  remotest  part  of  the 
Union;  so  that  a  citizen  of  Georgia  might  be  bastiled  in  the  furthest 
part  of  New  Hampshire,  or  a  citizen  of  New  Hampshire  in  the  furthest 
extreme  to  the  south,  cut  off  from  their  family,  their  friends,  and  their 
every  connexion.  These  considerations  induced  me.  Sir,  to  give  my 
negative  also  to  this  clause. 

[67]  In  this  same  section,  there  is  a  provision,  that  no  preference 
should  be  given  to  the  ports  of  one  State  over  another,  and  that 
vessels  bound  to  or  from  one  State  shall  not  be  obliged  to  enter, 
clear,  or  pay  duties  in  another.  This  provision,  as  well  as  that 
which  relates  to  the  uniformity  of  impost  duties  and  excises,  was 
introduced.  Sir,  by  the  delegation  of  this  State.  Without  such  a 
provision,  it  would  have  been  in  the  power  of  the  general  government^ 
to  have  compelled  all  ships  sailing  into  or  out  of  the  Chesapeake, 
to  clear  and  enter  at  Norfolk,  or  some  port  in  Virginia;  a  regulation 
which  would  be  extremely  injurious  to  our  commerce,  but  which 
would,  if  considered  merely  as  to  the  interest  of  the  Union,  perhaps 
not  be  thought  unreasonable;  since  it  would  render  the  collection 
of  the  revenue  arising  from  commerce  more  certain  and  less  expen- 
sive. 

[68]  But,  Sir,  as  the  system  is  now  reported,  the  general  govern- 
ment have  a  power  to  establish  what  ports  they  please  in  each  State^ 
and  to  ascertain  at  what  ports  in  every  State  ships  shall  clear  and 
enter  in  such  State;  a  power  which  may  be  so  used  as  to  destroy  the 
effect  of  that  provision;  since  by  it  may  be  established  a  port  in  such 


214     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

a  place,  as  shall  be  so  inconvenunt  to  the  States,  as  to  render  it  more 
eligible  for  their  shipping  to  clear  and  enter  in  another  than  in  their 
own  States.  Suppose,  for  instance,  the  general  government  should 
determine,  that  all  ships  which  cleared  or  entered  in  Maryland, 
should  clear  and  enter  at  Georgetown,  on  the  Potomac;  it  would 
oblige  all  the  ships  which  sailed  from  or  were  bound  to  any  other 
port  of  Maryland,  to  clear  or  enter  in  some  port  in  Virginia,  To 
prevent  such  a  use  of  the  power  which  the  general  government  now 
has,  of  limiting  the  number  of  ports  in  a  State,  and  fixing  the  place  or 
places  where  they  shall  be^  we  endeavoured  to  obtain  a  provision,  that 
the  general  government  should  only,  in  the  first  instance,  have 
authority  to  ascertain  the  number  of  ports  proper  to  be  established 
in  each  State,  and  transmit  information  thereof  to  the  several  States, 
the  legislatures  of  which,  respectively,  should  have  the  power  to 
fix  the  places  where  those  ports  should  be,  according  to  their  idea 
of  what  would  be  most  advantageous  to  the  commerce  of  their  State, 
and  most  for  the  ease  and  convenience  of  their  citizens;  and  that  the 
general  government  should  not  interfere  in  the  establishment  of 
the  places^  unless  the  legislature  of  the  State  should  neglect  or  refuse 
so  to  do;  but  we  could  not  obtain  this  alteration. 

[69]  By  the  tenth  section  every  State  is  prohibited  from  emitting 
bills  of  credit.  As  it  was  reported  by  the  committee  of  detail,  the 
States  were  only  prohibited  from  emitting  them  without  the  consent 
of  Congress  \  but  the  convention  was  so  smitten  with  the  paper  money 
dready  that  they  insisted  the  prohibition  should  be  absolute.  It  was 
my  opinion.  Sir,  that  the  States  ought  not  to  be  totally  deprived  of 
the  right  to  emit  bills  of  credit^  and  that,  as  we  had  not  given  an  author- 
ity to  the  general  government  for  that  purpose,  it  was  the  more  necessary 
to  retain  it  in  the  States,  I  considered  that  this  StatCy  and  some 
others^  had  formerly  received  great  benefit  from  paper  emissions,  and 
that,  if  public  and  private  credit  should  once  more  be  restored,  such 
emissions  might  hereafter  be  equally  advantageous;  and,  further,  that 
it  is  impossible  to  foresee,  that  events  may  not  take  place,  which 
shall  render  paper  money  of  absolute  necessity  \  and  it  was  my  opin- 
ion, if  this  power  was  not  to  be  exercised  by  a  State,  without  the 
permission  of  the  general  government,  it  ought  to  be  satisfactory 
even  to  those  who  were  the  most  haunted  by  the  apprehensions 
of  paper  money.  I  therefore  thought  it  my  duty  to  vote  against 
this  part  of  the  system. 

[70]  The  same  section  also  puts  it  out  of  the  power  of  the  States 
to  make  any  thing  but  gold  and  silver  coin  a  tender  in  payment  of 
debts,  or  to  pass  any  law  impairing  the  obligation  of  contracts. 

[71]  I  considered,  Sir,  that  there  might  be  times  of  such  great 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  215 

public  cedamiiies  and  distresSy  and  of  such  extreme  scarcity  of  specie^ 
as  should  render  it  the  duty  of  a  government,  for  the  preservation 
of  even  the  most  valuable  part  of  its  citizens,  in  some  measure  to 
interfere  in  their  favor,  by  passing  laws  totally  or  partially  stopping 
the  courts  of  justice,  or  authorizing  the  debtor  to  pay  by  instalments^ 
or  by  delivering  up  his  property  to  his  creditors  at  a  reasonable  and 
honest  valuation.  The  times  have  been  such  as  to  render  regulations 
of  this  kind  necessary  in  most  or  all  of  the  States,  to  prevent  the 
wealthy  creditor  and  the  moneyed  man  from  totally  destroying  the  poory 
though  even  industrious  debtor.  Such  times  may  again  arrive.  I 
therefore  voted  against  depriving  the  States  of  this  power,  a  power 
which  I  am  decided  they  ought  to  possess,  but  which,  I  admit,  ought 
only  to  be  exercised  on  very  important  and  urgent  occasions.  I 
apprehend.  Sir,  the  principal  cause  of  complaint  among  the  people 
at  large  is,  the  public  and  private  debt  with  which  they  are  oppressed, 
and  which,  in  the  present  scarcity  of  cash,  threatens  them  with 
destruction,  unless  they  can  obtain  so  much  indulgence  in  point 
of  time,  that  by  industry  and  frugality  they  may  extricate  them- 
selves. 

[72]  This  government  proposed,  I  apprehend,  so  far  from  remov- 
ing,  will  greatly  increase  those  complaints,  since,  grasping  in  its 
all-powerful  hand  the  citizens  of  the  respective  States,  it  will,  by 
the  imposition  of  the  variety  of  taxeSy  impostSy  stamps,  excises,  and 
other  dutieSy  squeeze  from  them  the  little  money  they  may  acquire, 
the  hard  earnings  of  their  industry,  as  you  would  squeeze  the  juice 
from  an  orange,  till  not  a  drop  more  can  be  extracted,  and  then 
let  loose  upon  them  their  private  creditors y  to  whose  mercy  it  consigns 
them,  by  whom  their  property  is  to  be  seized  upon  and  soldy  in  this 
scarcity  of  specicy  at  a  sheriffs  salcy  where  nothing  but  ready  cash 
can  be  received,  for  a  tenth  part  of  its  valuCy  and  themselves  and  their 
families,  to  be  consigned  to  indigence  and  distress,  without  their 
governments  having  a  power  to  give  them  a  moments  indulgenccy  how- 
ever necessary  it  might  be,  and  however  desirous  to  grant  them  aid. 

[73]  By  this  same  section,  every  State  is  also  prohibited  from 
laying  any  imposts  or  duties  on  imports  or  exports,  without  the 
permission  of  the  general  government.  It  was  urged,  that,  as  almost 
all  sources  of  taxation  were  given  to  Congress,  it  would  be  but  rea- 
sonable to  leave  the  States  the  power  of  bringing  revenue  into  their 
treasuries,  by  laying  a  duty  on  exports  if  they  should  think  proper, 
which  might  be  so  light  as  not  to  injure  or  discourage  industry,  and 
yet  might  be  productive  of  considerable  revenue.  Also,  that  there 
might  be.  cases  in  which  it  would  be  proper,  for  the  purpose  of  en- 
couraging manufactures,  to  lay  duties  to  prohibit  the  exportation 


2l6     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  raw  materials;  and,  even  in  addition  to  the  duties  laid  by  G)ngress 
on  imports  for  the  sake  of  revenucy  to  lay  a  duty  to  discourage  the 
importation  of  particular  articles  into  a  State,  or  to  enable  the  manu- 
facturer here  to  supply  us  on  as  good  terms  as  they  could  be  obtained 
from  a  foreign  market;  However,  the  most  we  could  obtain  was, 
that  this  power  might  be  exercised  by  the  States  with,  and  only 
with  the  consent  of  Congress,  and  subject  to  its  control.  And  so 
anxious  were  they  to  seize  on  every  shilling  of  our  money,  for  the 
general  government,  that  they  insisted  even  the  little  revenue  that 
might  thus  arise,  should  not  be  appropriated  to  the  use  of  the  respec- 
tive States  where  it  was  collected,  but  should  be  paid  into  the  treas- 
ury of  the  United  States;   and  accordingly  it  is  so  determined. 

[74]  The  second  article,  relates  to  the  executive, —  his  mode 
of  election,  his  powers,  and  the  length  of  time  he  shall  continue  in 
office. 

[75]  On  these  subjects  there  was  a  great  diversity  of  sentiment. 
Many  of  the  members  were  desirous,  that  the  President  should  be 
elected  for  seven  years,  and  not  to  be  eligible  a  second  time;  others 
proposed,  that  he  should  not  be  absolutely  ineligible,  but  that  he 
should  not  be  capable  of  being  chosen  a  second  time,  until  the  expira- 
tion of  a  certain  number  of  years.  The  supporters  of  the  above 
propositions  went  upon  the  idea,  that  the  best  security  for  liberty 
was  a  limited  duration  and  a  rotation  of  office  in  the  chief  executive 
department. 

[76]  There  was  a  party  who  attempted  to  have  the  President 
appointed  during  good  behaviour,  without  any  limitation  as  to  time; 
and,  not  being  able  to  succeed  in  that  attempt,  they  then  endeavoured 
to  have  him  reeligible  without  any  restraint.  It  was  objected,  that 
the  choice  of  a  President  to  continue  in  office  during  good  behaviour, 
would  be  at  once  rendering  our  system  an  elective  monarchy;  and, 
that  if  the  President  was  to  be  reeligible  without  any  interval  of 
disqualification,  it  would  amount  nearly  to  the  same  thing;  since 
with  the  powers  that  the  President  is  to  enjoy,  and  the  interests 
and  influence  with  which  they  will  be  attended,  he  will  be  almost 
absolutely  certain  of  being  reelected,  from  time  to  time,  as  long  as 
he  lives.  As  the  propositions  were  reported  by  the  committee  of 
the  whole  House,  the  President  was  to  be  chosen  for  seven  years, 
and  not  to  be  eligible,  at  any  time  after.  In  the  same  manner  the 
proposition  was  agreed  to  in  convention,  and  so  it  was  reported  by 
the  committee  of  detail,  although  a  variety  of  attempts  were  made 
to  alter  that  part  of  the  system,  by  those  who  were  of  a  contrary 
opinion,  in  which  they  repeatedly  failed;  but.  Sir,  by  never  losing 
sight  of  their  object,  and  choosing  a  proper  time  for  their  purpose, 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  21 7 

they  succeeded  at  length  in  obtaining  the  alteration,  which  was  not 
made  until  within  the  last  twelve  days  before  the  convention  ad- 
journed. 

[77]  As  the  propositions  were  agreed  to  by  the  committee  of 
the  whole  House,  the  President  was  to  be  appointed  by  the  national 
legislature;  and  as  it  was  reported  by  the  committee  of  detail,  the 
choice  was  to  be  made  by  ballot,  in  such  a  manner  that  the  States 
should  have  an  equal  voice  in  the  appointment  of  this  officer,  as  they, 
of  right,  ought  to  have;  but  those  who  wished  as  far  as  possible  to 
establish  a  national  instead  of  a  federal  government,  made  repeated 
attempts  to  have  the  President  chosen  by  the  people  at  large.  On 
this  the  sense  of  the  convention  was  taken,  I  think,  not  less  than 
three  times  while  I  was  there,  and  as  often  rejected;  but,  within 
the  last  fortnight  of  their  session,  they  obtained  the  alteration  in  the 
manner  it  now  stands,  by  which  the  large  States  have  a  very  undue 
influence  in  the  appointment  of  the  President.  There  is  no  case 
where  the  States  will  have  an  equal  voice  in  the  appointment  of 
the  President,  except  where  two  persons  shall  have  an  equal  number 
of  votes,  and  those  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  electors,  (a 
case  very  unlikely  to  happen,)  or  where  no  person  has  a  majority 
of  the  votes.  In  these  instances  the  House  of  Representatives  are 
to  choose  by  ballot,  each  State  having  an  equal  voice;  but  they  are 
confined,  in  the  last  instance,  to  the  five  who  have  the  greatest 
number  of  votes,  which  gives  the  largest  States  a  very  unequal 
chance  of  having  the  President  chosen  under  their  nomination. 

[78]  As  to  the  Vice-President,  that  great  officer  of  government, 
who  is,  in  case  of  death,  resignation,  removal,  or  inability  of  the 
President,  to  supply  his  place,  and  be  vested  with  his  powers,  and 
who  is  officially  to  be  the  President  of  the  Senate,  there  is  no  pro- 
vision by  which  a  majority  of  the  voices  of  the  electors  are  neces- 
sary for  his  appointment;  but,  after  it  is  decided  who  is  chosen 
President,  that  person  who  has  the  next  greatest  number  of  votes 
of  the  electors,  is  declared  to  be  legally  elected  to  the  Vice-Presidency; 
so  that  by  this  system  it  is  very  possible,  and  not  improbable,  that 
he  may  be  appointed  by  the  electors  of  a  single  large  State;  and  a 
very  undue  influence  in  the  Senate  is  given  to  that  State  of  which 
the  Vice-President  is  a  citizen,  since,  in  every  question  where  the 
Senate  is  divided,  that  State  will  have  two  votes,  the  President 
having  on  those  occasions  a  casting  voice.  Every  part  of  the  sys- 
tem which  relates  to  the  Vice-President,  as  well  as  the  present  mode 
of  electing  the  President,  was  introduced  and  agreed  upon  after  I 
left  Philadelphia. 

[79]  Objections  were  made  to  that  part  of  this  article,  by  which 


21 8       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  President  is  appointed  Commander-in-chief  of  the  army  and 
navy  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the  militia  of  the  several  States, 
and  it  was  wished  to  be  so  far  restrained,  that  he  should  not  com- 
mand in  person;  but  this  could  not  be  obtained.  The  power  given 
to  the  President,  of  granting  reprieves  and  pardons,  was  also  thought 
extremely  dangerous,  and  as  such  opposed.  The  President  thereby 
has  the  power  of  pardoning  those  who  are  guilty  of  treason,  as  well 
as  of  other  offences;  it  was  said,  that  no  treason  was  so  likely  to  take 
place  as  that  in  which  the  President  himself  might  be  engaged,  — 
the  attempt  to  assume  to  himself  powers  not  given  by  the  constitu- 
tion, and  establish  himself  in  regal  authority;  in  which  attempt 
a  provision  is  made  for  him  to  secure  from  punishment  the  creatures 
of  his  ambition,  the  associates  and  abettors  of  his  treasonable  prac- 
tices, by  granting  them  pardons,  should  they  be  defeated  in  their 
attempts  to  subvert  the  Constitution. 

[80]  To  that  part  of  this  article  also,  which  gives  the  President 
a  right  to  nominate^  and,  with  the  consent  of  the  Senate,  to  appoint 
all  the  officers,  civil  and  military,  of  the  United  States,  there  was 
considerable  opposition.  It  was  said,  that  the  person  who  nomt- 
naUs  will  always  in  reality  appoint^  and  that  this  was  giving  the  Presi- 
dent a  power  and  influence,  which,  together  with  the  other  powers 
bestowed  upon  him,  would  place  him  above  all  restraint  or  control. 
In  fine,  it  was  urged,  that  the  President,  as  here  constituted,  was  a 
king,  in  every  thing  but  the  name;  that,  though  he  was  to  be  chosen 
but  for  a  limited  time,  yet  at  the  expiration  of  that  time,  if  he  is 
not  re-elected,  it  will  depend  entirely  upon  his  own  moderation 
whether  he  will  resign  that  authority  with  which  he  has  once  been 
invested;  that,  from  his  having  the  appointment  of  all  the  variety 
of  officers,  in  every  part  of  the  civil  department  for  the  Union,  who 
will  be  very  numerous,  in  them  and  their  connexions,  relations, 
friends,  and  dependents,  he  will  have  a  formidable  host,  devoted  to 
his  interest,  and  ready  to  support  his  ambitious  views.  That  the 
army  and  navy,  which  may  be  increased  without  restraint  as  to 
numbers,  the  officers  of  which,  from  the  highest  to  the  lowest,  are 
all  to  be  appointed  by  him,  and  dependent  on  his  will  and  pleasure, 
and  commanded  by  him  in  person,  will,  of  course,  be  subservient  to 
his  wishes,  and  ready  to  execute  his  commands;  in  addition  to  which, 
the  militia  also  are  entirely  subjected  to  his  orders.  That  these 
circumstances,  combined  together,  will  enable  him,  when  he  pleases, 
to  become  a  king  in  namey  as  well  as  in  substance,  and  establish 
himself  in  office  not  only  for  his  own  life,  but  even,  if  he  chooses, 
to  have  that  authority  perpetuated  to  his  family. 

[81]  It  was  further  observed,  that  the  only  appearance  of  respon- 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  2I9 

sibility  in  the  President,  which  the  system  holds  up  to  our  view,  is 
the  provision  for  impeachment;  but  that  when  we  reflect  that  he 
cannot  be  impeached  but  by  the  House  of  Delegates,  and  that  the 
members  of  this  House  are  rendered  dependent  upon,  and  unduly 
under  the  influence  of  the  President,  by  being  appointable  to  oflices 
of  which  he  has  the  sole  nomination,  so  that  without  his  favor  and 
approbation  they  cannot  obtain  them,  there  is  little  reason  to  believe, 
that  a  majority  will  ever  concur  in  impeaching  the  President,  let 
his  conduct  be  ever  so  reprehensible;  especially,  too,  as  the  final 
event  of  that  impeachment  will  depend  upon  a  different  body,  and 
the  members  of  the  House  of  Delegate  will  be  certain,  should  the 
decision  be  ultimately  in  favor  of  the  President,  to  become  thereby 
the  objects  of  his  displeasure,  and  to  bar  to  themselves  every  avenue 
to  the  emoluments  of  government. 

[82]  Should  he,  contrary  to  probability,  be  impeached,  he  is 
afterwards  to  be  tried  and  adjudged  by  the  Senate,  and,  without 
the  concurrence  of  two  thirds  of  the  members  who  shall  be  present, 
he  cannot  be  convicted.  This  Senate  being  constituted  a  privy 
council  to  the  President,  it  is  probable  many  of  its  leading  and  influ- 
ential members  may  have  advised  or  concurred  in  the  very  measures 
for  which  he  may  be  impeached;  the  members  of  the  Senate  also 
are  by  the  system,  placed  as  unduly  under  the  influence  of,  and 
dependent  upon  the  President,  as  the  members  of  the  other  branch, 
since  they  also  are  appointable  to  oflices,  and  cannot  obtain  them 
but  through  the  favor  of  the  President.  There  will  be  great,  impor- 
tant, and  valuable  oflices  under  this  government,  should  it  take 
place,  more  than  suflicient  to  enable  him  to  hold  out  the  expectation 
of  one  of  them  to  each  of  the  senators.  Under  these  circumstances, 
will  any  person  conceive  it  to  be  diflicult  for  the  President  always 
to  secure  to  himself  more  than  one  third  of  that  body?  Or,  can  it 
reasonably  be  believed,  that  a  criminal  will  be  convicted,  who  is 
constitutionally  empowered  to  bribe  his  judges,  at  the  head  of  whom 
is  to  preside  on  those  occasions  the  Chief  Justice,  which  oflicer,  in 
his  original  appointment,  must  be  nominated  by  the  President,  and 
will,  therefore,  probably,  be  appointed  not  so  much  for  his  eminence 
in  legal  knowledge  and  for  his  integrity,  as  from  favoritism  and 
influence;  since  the  President,  knowing  that  in  case  of  impeachment 
the  Chief  Justice  is  to  preside  at  his  trial,  will  naturally  wish  to  fill 
that  oflice  with  a  person  of  whose  voice  and  influence  he  shall  con- 
sider himself  secure?  These  are  reasons  to  induce  a  belief,  that  there 
will  be  but  little  probability  of  the  President  ever  being  either  im- 
peached or  convicted;  but  it  was  also  urged,  that,  vested  with  the 
powers  which  the  system  gives  him,  and  with  the  influence  attendant 


220     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Upon  those  powers,  to  him  it  would  be  of  little  consequence  whether 
he  was  impeached  or  convicted,  since  he  will  be  able  to  set  both  at 
defiance.  These  considerations  occasioned  a  part  of  the  convention 
to  give  a  negative  to  this  part  of  the  system  establishing  the  executive, 
as  it  is  now  offered  for  our  acceptance. 

[83]  By  the  third  article,  the  judicial  power  of  the  United  States 
is  vested  in  one  supreme  court,  and  in  such  inferior  courts,  as  the  Con- 
gress may  from  time  to  time  ordain  and  establish.  These  courts, 
and  these  only,  will  have  a  right  to  decide  upon  the  laws  of  the  United 
States,  and  all  questions  arising  upon  their  construction,  and  in  a 
judicial  manner  to  carry  those  laws  into  execution;  to  which  the 
courts,  both  superior  and  inferior,  of  the  respective  States,  and  * 
their  judges  and  other  magistrates,  are  rendered  incompetent.  To 
the  courts  of  the  general  government  are  also  confined  all  cases  in 
law  or  equity,  arising  under  the  proposed  constitution,  and  treaties 
made  under  the  authority  of  the  United  States;  all  cases  affecting 
ambassadors,  other  public  ministers,  and  consuls;  all  cases  of  ad- 
miralty and  maritime  jurisdiction;  all  controversies  to  which  the 
United  States  are  a  party;  all  controversies  between  two  or  more 
States;  between  a  State  and  citizens  of  another  State;  between 
citizens  of  the  same  State,  claiming  lands  under  grants  of  different 
States;  and  between  a  State,  or  the  citizens  thereof,  and  foreign 
States,  citizens,  or  subjects.  Whether  therefore,  any  laws  or  regu- 
lations of  the  Congress,  or  any  acts  of  its  President  or  other  officers^ 
are  contrary  to,  or  not  warranted  by  the  constitution,  rests  only  with 
the  judges,  who  are  appointed  by  Congress  to  determine;  by  whose 
determinations  every  State  must  be  bound.  Should  any  question 
arise  between  a  foreign  consul  and  any  of  the  citizens  of  the  United 
States,  however  remote  from  the  seat  of  empire,  it  is  to  be  heard 
before  the  judiciary  of  the  general  government,  and  in  the  first 
instance  to  be  heard  in  the  Supreme  Court,  however  inconvenient  to 
the  parties,  and  however  trifiing  the  subject  of  dispute. 

[84]  Should  the  mariners  of  an  American  or  foreign  vessel, 
while  in  any  American  port,  have  occasion  to  sue  for  their  wages, 
or  in  any  other  instance  a  controversy  belonging  to  the  admiralty 
jurisdiction  should  take  place  between  them  and  their  masters  or 
owners,  it  is  in  the  courts  of  the  general  government  the  suit  must 
be  instituted;  and  either  party  may  carry  it  by  appeal  to  its  Supreme 
Court.  The  injury  to  commerce,  and  the  oppression  to  individuals, 
which  may  thence  arise,  need  not  be  enlarged  upon.  Should  a  citi- 
zen of  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  or  any  other  of  the  United  States, 
be  indebted  to,  or  have  debts  due  from  a  citizen  of  this  State,  or 
any  other  claim  be  subsisting  on  one  side  or  the  other,  in  consequence 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  221 

of  commercial  or  other  transactions,  it  is  only  in  the  courts  of  Congress 
that  either  can  apply  for  redress.  The  case  is  the  same  should  any 
claim  subsist  between  citizens  of  this  State  and  foreigners,  merchants, 
mariners,  and  others,  whether  of  a  commercial  or  of  any  other  nature; 
they  must  be  prosecuted  in  the  same  courts;  and  though  in  the  first 
instance  they  may  be  brought  in  the  inferior,  yet  an  appeal  may  be 
made  to  the  supreme  judiciary,  even  from  the  remotest  State  in 
the  Union. 

[85]  The  inquiry  concerning,  and  trial  of,  every  offence  against, 
and  breach  of,  the  laws  of  Congress,  are  also  confined  to  its  courts; 
the  same  courts  also  have  the  sole  right  to  inquire  concerning  and 
try  every  offence,  from  the  lowest  to  the  highest,  committed  by  the 
citizens  of  any  other  State,  or  of  a  foreign  nation,  against  the  laws 
of  this  State,  within  its  territory;  and  in  all  these  cases ^  the  decision 
may  be  ultimately  brought  before  the  supreme  tribunal,  since  the 
appellate  jurisdiction  extends  to  criminal  as  well  as  to  civil  cases: 
And  in  all  those  cases  where  the  general  government  has  jurisdic- 
tion in  civil  questions,  the  proposed  constitution  not  only  makes 
no  provision  for  trial  by  jury  in  the  first  instance,  but,  by  its  appellate 
jurisdiction,  absolutely  takes  away  that  inestimable  privilege;  since 
it  expressly  declares  the  Supreme  Court  shall  have  appellate 
jurisdiction  both  as  to  law  and  fact.  Should,  therefore,  a  jury  be 
adopted  in  the  inferior  courts  it  would  only  be  a  needless  expense^ 
since,  on  an  appeal,  the  determination  of  that  jury^  even  on  questions 
of  facty  however  honest  and  upright,  is  to  be  of  no  possible  effect. 
The  Supreme  Court  is  to  take  up  all  questions  of  fact^  to  examine  the 
evidence  relative  thereto,  to  decide  upon  them  in  the  same  manner  as  if 
they  had  never  been  tried  by  a  jury;  nor  is  trial  by  jury  secured  in  crimi- 
nal cases.  It  is  true,  that,  in  the  first  instance,  in  the  inferior  court, 
the  trial  is  to  be  by  jury.  In  this,  and  in  this  only,  is  the  difference 
between  criminal  and  civil  cases.  But,  Sir,  the  appellate  jurisdiction 
extends y  as  I  have  observed,  to  cases  criminal  as  well  as  to  civil;  and, 
on  the  appeal^  the  court  is  to  decide  not  only  on  the  law,  but  on  the 
fact.  If,  therefore,  even  in  criminal  cases,  the  general  government  is 
not  satisfied  with  the  verdict  of  the  jury,  its  officer  may  remove  the 
prosecution  to  the  Supreme  Court,  and  there  the  verdict  of  the  jury 
is  to  be  of  no  effect^  but  the  judges  of  this  court  are  to  decide  upon  the 
fact  as  well  as  the  law,  the  same  as  in  civil  cases. 

[86]  Thus,  Sir,  jury  trials^  which  have  ever  been  the  boast  of 
the  English  constitution,  which  have  been  by  our  several  State 
constitutions  so  cautiously  secured  to  us,  — jury  trials ^  which  have 
so  long  been  considered  the  surest  barrier  against  arbitrary  power^ 
and  the  palladium  of  liberty^  with  the  loss  of  which  the  loss  of  our 


222     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

freedom  may  be  dated,  are  taken  away^  by  the  proposed  form  of 
government,  not  only  in  a  great  variety  of  questions  between  individual 
and  individual^  but  in  every  case^  whether  civil  or  criminal^  arising 
under  the  laws  of  the  United  States,  or  the  execution  of  those  laws. 
It  is  taken  away  in  those  very  cases,  where,  of  all  others,  it  is  most 
essential  for  our  liberty  to  have  it  sacredly  guarded  and  preserved;  in 
every  case,  whether  civil  or  criminal,  between  government  and  its 
officers  on  the  one  part,  and  the  subject  or  citizen  on  the  other.  Nor 
was  this  the  effect  of  inattention,  nor  did  it  arise  from  any  real 
difficulty  in  establishing  and  securing  jury  trials  by  the  proposed 
constitution,  if  the  convention  had  wished  so  to  do;  but  the  same 
reason  influenced  here  as  in  the  case  of  the  establishment  of  inferior 
courts;  as  they  could  not  trust  State  judges,  so  would  they  not  con- 
fide in  State  juries.  They  alleged,  that  the  general  government 
and  the  State  governments  would  always  be  at  variance;  that  the 
citizens  of  the  different  States  would  enter  into  the  views  and  inter- 
ests of  their  respective  States,  and  therefore  ought  not  to  be  trusted 
in  determining  causes  in  which  the  general  government  was  any  way 
interested,  without  giving  the  general  government  an  opportunity, 
if  it  disapproved  the  verdict  of  the  jury,  to  appeal,  and  to  have  the 
facts  examined  into  again,  and  decided  upon  by  its  own  judges,  on 
whom  it  was  thought  a  reliance  might  be  had  by  the  general  govern- 
ment, they  being  appointed  under  its  authority. 

[87]  Thus,  Sir,  in  consequence  of  this  appellate  jurisdiction,  and 
its  extension  to  facts  as  well  as  to  law,  every  arbitrary  act  of  the  gen- 
eral government,  and  every  oppression  of  all  that  variety  of  officers 
appointed  under  its  authority,  for  the  collection  of  taxes,  duties, 
impost,  excise,  and  other  purposes,  must  be  submitted  to  by  the  indi- 
vidual, or  must  be  opposed  with  little  prospect  of  success,  and  almost 
a  certain  prospect  of  ruin,  at  least  in  those  cases  where  the  middle 
and  common  class  of  citizens  are  interested;  since,  to  avoid  that 
oppression,  or  to  obtain  redress,  the  application  must  be  made  to 
one  of  the  courts  of  the  United  States.  By  good  fortune  should  this 
application  be  in  the  first  instance  attended  with  success,  and  should 
damages  be  recovered  equivalent  to  the  injury  sustained,  an  appeal 
lies  to  the  Supreme  Court;  in  which  case,  the  citizen  must  at  once 
give  up  his  cause,  or  he  must  attend  to  it  at  the  distance  of  perhaps 
more  than  a  thousand  miles  from  the  place  of  his  residence,  and  must 
take  measures  to  procure  before  that  court,  on  the  appeal,  all  the 
evidence  necessary  to  support  his  action,  which,  even  if  ultimately 
prosperous,  must  be  attended  with  a  loss  of  time,  a  neglect  of  business, 
and  an  expense  which  will  be  greater  than  the  original  grievance,  and 
to  which  men  in  moderate  circumstances  would  be  utterly  unequal. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  223 

[88]  By  the  third  section  of  this  article,  it  is  declared,  that  trea- 
son against  the  United  States  shall  consist  in  levying  war  against 
them,  or  in  adhering  to  their  enemies,  giving  them  aid  or  comfort. 

[89]  By  the  principles  of  the  American  revolution,  arbitrary 
power  may  and  ought  to  be  resisted,  even  by  arms  if  necessary.  The 
time  may  come,  when  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  a  Statey  in  order  to  pre- 
serve itself  from  the  oppression  of  the  general  government,  to  have 
recourse  to  the  sword;  in  which  case,  the  proposed  form  of  govern- 
ment declares,  that  the  State  and  every  of  its  citizens  who  act  under 
its  authority  are  guilty  of  a  direct  act  of  treason; — reducing,  by  this 
provision,  the  different  States  to  this  alternative,  that  they  must 
tamely  and  passively  yield  to  despotism^  or  their  citizens  must  oppose 
it  at  the  hazard  of  the  halter  if  unsuccessful:  and  reducing  the  citi- 
zens of  the  State  which  shall  take  arms,  to  a  situation  in  which  they 
must  be  exposed  to  punishment^  let  them  act  as  they  tvill;  since,  if 
they  obey  the  authority  of  their  State  government^  they  will  be  guilty 
of  treason  against  the  United  States;  if  they  join  the  general  govern- 
menty  they  will  be  guilty  of  treason  against  their  own  State. 

[90]  To  save  the  citizens  of  the  respective  States  from  this  dis- 
agreeable dilemma,  and  to  secure  them  from  being  punishable  as 
traitors  to  the  United  States^  when  acting  expressly  in  obedience  to 
the  authority  of  their  own  State^  I  wished  to  have  obtained,  as  an 
amendment  to  the  third  section  of  this  article,  the  following  clause: 
"Provided,  that  no  act  or  acts  done  by  one  or  more  of  the  States 
against  the  United  States,  or  by  any  citizen  of  any  one  of  the  United 
States,  under  the  authority  of  one  or  more  of  the  said  States^  shall  be 
deemed  treason^  or  punished  as  such;  but,  in  case  of  war  being  levied 
by  one  or  more  of  the  States  against  the  United  States,  the  conduct 
of  each  party  towards  the  other,  and  their  adherents  respectively, 
shall  be  regulated  by  the  laws  of  war  and  of  nations,^* 

[91]  But  this  provision  was  not  adopted,  being  too  much  opposed 
to  the  great  object  of  many  of  the  leading  members  of  the  conven- 
tion, which  was,  by  all  means  to  leave  the  States  at  the  mercy  of  the 
general  government^  since  they  could  not  succeed  in  their  immediate 
and  entire  abolition. 

[92]  By  the  third  section  of  the  fourth  article,  no  new  State 
shall  be  formed  or  erected  within  the  jurisdiction  of  any  other  State, 
without  the  consent  of  the  legislature  of  such  State. 

[93]  There  are  a  number  of  States  which  are  so  circumstanced, 
with  respect  to  themselves  and  to  the  other  States,  that  every  prin- 
ciple of  justice  and  sound  policy  require  their  dismemberment  or 
division  into  smaller  States.  Massachusetts  is  divided  into  two 
districts,  totally  separated  from  each  other  by  the  State  of  New 


224      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Hampshire,  on  the  northeast  side  of  which  lie  the  Provinces  of 
Maine  and  Sagadahock,  more  extensive  in  point  of  territory,  but 
less  populous  than  old  Massachusetts,  which  lies  on  the  other  side 
of  New  Hampshire.  No  person  can  cast  his  eye  on  the  map  of  that 
State  but  he  must  in  a  moment  admit,  that  every  argument  drawn 
from  convenience,  interest,  and  justice,  require,  that  the  Provinces 
of  Maine  and  Sagadahoc  should  be  erected  into  a  new  State,  and 
that  they  should  not  be  compelled  to  remain  connected  with  old 
Massachusetts  under  all  the  inconveniences  of  their  situation. 

[94]  The  State  of  Georgia  is  larger  in  extent  than  the  whole 
island  of  Great  Britain,  extending  from  its  sea-coast  to  the  Missis- 
sippi, a  distance  of  eight  hundred  miles  or  more;  its  breadth,  for 
the  most  part,  about  three  hundred  miles.  The  States  of  North 
Carolina  and  Virginia,  in  the  same  manner,  reach  from  the  sea- 
coast  unto  the  Mississippi. 

[95]  The  hardship,  the  inconvenience,  and  the  injustice  of  com- 
pelling the  inhabitants  of  those  States  who  may  dwell  on  the  western 
side  of  the  mountains,  and  along  the  Ohio  and  Mississippi  rivers, 
to  remain  connected  with  the  inhabitants  of  those  States  respec- 
tively, on  the  Atlantic  side  of  the  mountains,  and  subject  to  the  same 
State  governments,  would  be  such,  as  would,  in  my  opinion,  justify 
even  recourse  to  arms,  to  free  themselves  from,  and  to  shake  off, 
so  ignominious  a  yoke. 

[96]  This  representation  was  made  in  convention,  and  it  was 
further  urged,  that  the  territory  of  these  States  was  too  large,  and 
that  the  inhabitants  thereof  would  be  too  much  disconnected  for  a 
republican  government  to  extend  to  them  its  benefits^  which  is  only 
suited  to  a  small  and  compact  territory.  That  a  regard,  also,  for 
the  peace  and  safety  of  the  Union  ought  to  excite  a  desire,  that 
those  States  should  become  in  time  divided  into  separate  States, 
since,  when  their  population  should  become  proportioned  in  any 
degree  to  their  territory,  they  would,  from  their  strength  and  power, 
become  dangerous  members  of  a  federal  government.  It  was  further 
said,  that,  if  the  general  government  was  not  by  its  constitution 
to  interfere,  the  inconvenience  would  soon  remedy  itself,  for  that, 
as  the  population  increased  in  those  States,  their  legislatures  would 
be  obliged  to  consent  to  the  erection  of  n  w  States  to  avoid  the  evils 
of  a  civil  war;  but  as,  by  the  proposed  constitution,  the  general 
government  is  obliged  to  protect  each  State  against  domestic  vio- 
lence, and,  consequently,  will  be  obliged  to  assist  in  suppressing 
such  commotions  and  insurrections,  as  may  take  place  from  the 
struggle  to  have  new  States  erected,  the  general  government  ought 
to  have  a  power  to  decide  upon  the  propriety  and  necessity  of  estab- 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  225 

lishing  or  erecting  a  new  State,  even  without  the  approbation  of 
the  legislature  of  such  States,  within  whose  jurisdiction  the  new  State 
should  be  erected;  and  for  this  purpose  I  submitted  to  the  convention 
the  following  proposition:  "That,  on  the  application  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  any  district  of  territory,  within  the  limits  of  any  of  the  States, 
it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  legislature  of  the  United  States,  if  they  shall 
under  all  circumstances  think  it  reasonable,  to  erect  the  same  into 
a  new  State,  and  admit  it  into  the  Union,  without  the  consent  of  the 
State  of  which  the  said  district  may  be  a  part."  And  it  was  said, 
that  we  surely  might  trust  the  general  government  with  this  power 
with  more  propriety  than  with  many  others^  with  which  they  were 
proposed  to  be  intrusted;  and  that,  as  the  general  government  was 
bound  to  suppress  all  insurrections  and  commotions,  which  might 
arise  on  this  subject,  it  ought  to  be  in  the  power  of  the  general  gov- 
ernment to  decide  upon  it,  and  not  in  the  power  of  the  legislature 

• 

of  a  single  State,  by  obstinately  and  unreasonably  opposing  the 
erection  of  a  new  State,  to  prevent  its  taking  eflFect,  and  thereby 
extremely  to  oppress  that  part  of  its  citizens  which  live  remote  from, 
and  inconvenient  to,  the  seat  of  its  government,  and  even  to  in- 
volve the  Union  in  war  to  support  its  injustice  and  oppression. 
But,  upon  the  vote  being  taken,  Georgia,  South  Carolina,  North 
Carolina,  Virginia,  Pennsylvania,  and  Massachusetts  were  in  the 
negative.  New  Hampshire,  Connecticut,  Jersey,  Delaware,  and 
Maryland,  were  in  the  affirmative.    New  York  was  absent. 

[97]  That  it  was  inconsistent  with  the  rights  of  free  and  inde- 
pendent States,  to  have  their  territory  dismembered  without  their 
consent,  was  the  principal  argument  used  by  the  opponents  of  this 
proposition.  The  truth  of  the  objection  we  readily  admitted,  but 
at  the  same  time  insisted,  that  it  was  not  more  inconsistent  with  the 
rights  of  free  and  independent  States,  than  that  inequality  of  suffrage 
and  power  which  the  large  States  had  extorted  from  the  others;  and 
that,  if  the  smaller  StaUs  yielded  up  their  rights  in  that  instance^ 
they  were  entitled  to  demand  from  the  States  of  extensive  territory 
a  surrender  of  their  rights  in  this  instance;  and  in  a  particular  manner, 
as  it  was  equally  necessary  for  the  true  interest  and  happiness  of  the 
citizens  of  their  own  States^  as  of  the  Union.  But,  Sir,  although, 
when  the  large  States  demanded  undue  and  improper  sacrifices  to 
be  made  to  their  pride  and  ambttion,  they  treated  the  rights  of  free 
States  with  more  contempt,  than  ever  a  British  Parliament  treated 
the  rights  of  her  colonial  establishments;  yet,  when  a  reasonable 
and  necessary  sacrifice  was  asked  from  them^  they  spumed  the  idea 
with  ineffable  disdain.  They  then  perfectly  understood  the  full 
value  and  the  sacred  obligation  of  State  rights^  and  at  the  least  attempt 


226      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

to  infringe  them,  where  they  were  concerned^  they  were  tremblingly 
alive,  and  agonized  at  every  pore. 

[98]  When  we  reflect  how  obstinately  those  States  contended  for 
that  unjust  superiority  of  power  in  the  government,  which  they  have 
in  part  obtained,  and  for  the  establishment  of  this  superiority  by 
the  constitution;  when  we  reflect  that  they  appeared  willing  to 
hazard  the  existence  of  the  Union,  rather  than  not  to  succeed  in 
their  unjust  attempt;  that,  should  their  legislatures  consent  to  the 
erection  of  new  States  within  their  jurisdiction,  it  would  be  an  im- 
mediate sacrifice  of  that  power,  to  obtain  which  they  appeared 
disposed  to  sacrifice  every  other  consideration.  When  we  further 
reflect  that  they  now  have  a  motive  for  desiring  to  preserve  their 
territory  entire  and  unbroken,  which  they  never  had  before j  —  the 
gratification  of  their  ambitiony  in  possessing  and  exercising  superior 
power  over  their  sister  States^  —  and  that  this  constitution  is  to  give 
them  the  means  to  effect  this  desire,  of  which  they  were  formerly 
destitute;  the  whole  force  of  the  United  States  pledged  to  them  for  re^ 
straining  intestine  commotions,  and  preserving  to  them  the  obedience 
and  subjection  of  their  citizens,  even  in  the  extremest  part  of  their 
territory;  —  I  say.  Sir  when  we  consider  these  things,  it  would  be 
too  absurd  and  improbable  to  deserve  a  serious  answer,  should  any 
person  suggest,  that  these  States  mean  ever  to  give  their  consent  to 
the  erection  of  new  States  within  their  territory.  Some  of  them,  it 
is  true,  have  been  for  some  time  past  amusing  their  inhabitants, 
in  those  districts  that  wished  to  be  erected  into  new  States;  but, 
should  this  constitution  be  adopted,  armed  with  a  sword  and  halter 
to  compel  their  obedience  and  subjection,  they  will  no  longer  act 
with  indecision;  and  the  State  of  Maryland  may,  and  probably 
will,  be  called  upon  to  assist,  with  her  wealth  and  her  blood,  in  sub- 
duing the  inhabitants  of  Franklin,  Kentucky,  Vermont,  and  the 
provinces  of  Maine  and  Sagadahoc,  and  in  compelling  them  to  con- 
tinue in  subjection  to  the  States  which  respectively  claim  jurisdic- 
tion over  them. 

[99]  Let  it  not  be  forgotten  at  the  same  time,  that  a  great  part 
of  the  territory  of  these  large  and  extensive  States,  which  they  now 
hold  in  possession,  and  over  which  they  now  claim  and  exercise 
jurisdiction,  were  crown  lands,  unlocated  and  unsettled  when  the 
American  revolution  took  place,  —  lands  which  were  acquired  by 
the  common  blood  and  treasure,  and  which  ought  to  have  been  the 
common  stock,  and  for  the  common  benefit  of  the  Union.  Let  it  be 
remembered,  that  the  State  of  Maryland  was  so  deeply  sensible  of 
the  injustice  that  these  lands  should  be  held  by  particular  States 
for  their  own  emolument,  even  at  a  time  when  no  superiority  of 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  227 

authority  or  power  was  annexed  to  extensive  territory^  that,  in  the  midst 
of  the  late  war  and  all  the  dangers  which  threatened  us,  it  withheld, 
for  a  long  time,  its  assent  to  the  articles  of  confederation  for  that 
reason;  and,  when  it  ratified  those  articles,  it  entered  a  solemn  pro- 
test against  what  it  considered  so  flagrant  injustice.  But,  Sir,  the 
question  is  not  now^  whether  those  States  shall  hold  that  territory 
unjustly  to  themselves,  but  whether,  by  that  act  of  injustice,  they 
shall  have  superiority  of  power  and  influence  over  the  other  StaieSj  and 
have  a  constitutional  right  to  domineer  and  lord  it  over  them.  Nay, 
more,  whether  we  will  agree  to  a  form  of  governmenty  by  which  we 
pledge  to  those  States  the  whole  force  of  the  Union,  to  preserve  to  them 
their  extensive  territory  entire  and  unbroken;  and,  with  our  blood  and 
wealth,  to  assist  them,  whenever  they  please  to  demand  it,  to  preserve 
the  inhabitants  thereof  under  their  subjection,  for  the  purpose  of  increas- 
ing their  superiority  over  us,  —  of  gratifying  their  unjust  ambition, 
—  in  a  word,  for  the  purpose  of  giving  ourselves  masters,  and  of  rivet- 
ing our  chains  I 

[ico]  The  part  of  the  system  which  provides,  that  no  religious 
test  shall  ever  be  required  as  a  qualification  to  any  office  or  public 
trust  under  the  United  States,  was  adopted  by  a  great  majority  of 
the  convention,  and  without  much  debate;  however,  there  were 
some  members  so  unfashionable  as  to  think,  that  a  belief  of  the  exis- 
tence of  a  Deity,  and  of  a  state  of  future  rewards  and  punishments 
would  be  some  security  for  the  good  conduct  of  our  rulers,  and  that, 
in  a  Christian  country,  it  would  be  at  least  decent  to  hold  out  some 
distinction  between  the  professors  of  Christianity  and  downright 
infidelity  or  paganism. 

[loi]  The  seventh  article  declares,  that  the  ratification  of  nine 
States  shall  be  sufficient  for  the  establishment  of  this  constitution, 
between  the  States  ratifying  the  same. 

[102]  It  was  attempted  to  obtain  a  resolve,  that,  if  seven  States, 
whose  votes  in  the  first  branch  should  amount  to  a  majority  of  the 
representation  in  that  branch,  concurred  in  the  adoption  of  the 
system,  it  should  be  sufficient;  and  this  attempt  was  supported  on 
the  principle,  that  a  majority  ought  to  govern  the  minority;  but 
to  this  it  was  objected,  that,  although  it  was  true,  after  a  constitu- 
tion and  form  of  government  is  agreed  on,  in  every  act  done  under 
and  consistent  with  that  constitution  and  form  of  government, 
the  act  of  the  majority,  unless  otherwise  agreed  in  the  constitution, 
should  bind  the  minority,  yet  it  was  directly  the  reverse  in  originally 
forming  a  constitution,  or  dissolving  it;  that,  in  originally  forming  a 
constitution,  it  was  necessary  that  every  individual  should  agree 
to  it,  to  become  bound  thereby;  and  that,  when  once  adopted,  it 


228      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

could  not  be  dissolved  by  consent,  unless  with  the  consent  of  every 
individual  who  was  party  to  the  original  agreement;  that  in  forming 
our  original  federal  government,  every  member  of  that  government, 
that  is,  each  State,  expressly  consented  to  it;  that  it  is  a  part  of  the 
compact  made  and  entered  into,  in  the  most  solemn  manner,  that  there 
should  be  no  dissolution  or  alteration  of  that  federal  government, 
without  the  consent  of  every  State^  the  members  of,  and  parties  to, 
the  original  compact;  that,  therefore,  no  alteration  could  be  made 
by  a  consent  of  a  part  of  these  States,  or  by  the  consent  of  the  inhabit 
tants  of  a  part  of  the  States^  which  could  either  release  the  States  so 
consenting  from  the  obligation  they  are  under  to  the  other  States, 
or  which  could  in  any  manner  become  obligatory  upon  those  States 
that  should  not  ratify  such  alterations.  Satisfied  of  the  truth  of 
these  positions,  and  not  holding  ourselves  at  liberty  to  violate  the 
compact^  which  this  State  had  solemnly  entered  into  with  the  others, 
by  altering  it  in  a  different  manner  from  that  which  by  the  same 
compact  is  provided  and  stipulated,  a  number  of  the  members,  and 
among  those  the  delegation  of  this  State^  opposed  the  ratification 
of  this  system  in  any  other  mannery  than  by  the  unanimous  consent 
and  agreement  of  all  the  States, 

[103]  By  our  original  articles  of  confederation,  any  alterations 
proposed  are,  in  the  first  place,  to  be  approved  by  Congress.  Accord- 
ingly, as  the  resolutions  were  originally  adopted  by  the  convention, 
and  as  they  were  reported  by  the  committee  of  detail,  it  was  pro- 
posed that  this  system  should  be  laid  before  Congress  for  their  appro- 
bation.  But,  Sir,  the  warm  advocates  of  this  system,  fearing  it 
would  not  meet  with  the  approbation  of  Congress,  and  determined, 
even  though  Congress  and  the  respective  State  legislatures  should 
disapprove  the  same,  to  force  it  upon  them,  if  possible,  through  the 
intervention  of  the  people  at  large,  moved  to  strike  out  the  words 
"for  their  approbation,"  and  succeeded  in  their  motion;  to  which, 
it  being  directly  in  violation  of  the  mode  prescribed  by  the  articles 
of  confederation  for  the  alteration  of  our  federal  government,  a  part 
of  the  convention,  and  myself  in  the  number,  thought  it  a  duty  to 
give  a  decided  negative. 

[104]  Agreeably  to  the  articles  of  confederation,  entered  into 
in  the  most  solemn  manner,  and  for  the  observance  of  which  the  States 
pledged  themselves  to  each  other,  and  called  upon  the  Supreme 
Being  as  a  witness  and  avenger  between  them,  no  alterations  are  to 
be  made  in  those  articles,  unless,  after  they  are  approved  by  Congress, 
they  are  agreed  to  and  ratified  by  the  legislature  of  every  State;  but, 
by  the  resolve  of  the  convention,  this  constitution  is  not  to  be  rati- 
fied by  the  legislatures  of  the  respective  States,  but  is  to  be  submitted 


APPENDIX  A,   CLVIII  229 

to  conventions  chosen  by  the  people,  and,  if  ratified  by  them,  is  to 
be  binding. 

[105]  This  resolve  was  opposed,  among  others,  by  the  delega- 
tion of  Maryland.  Your  delegates  were  of  opinion,  that,  as  the 
form  of  government  proposed  was,  if  adopted,  most  essentially  to 
alUf  the  constitution  of  this  State;  and  as  our  constitution  had  pointed 
out  a  mode  by  which,  and  by  which  on/y,  alterations  were  to  be  made 
therein,  a  convention  of  the  people  could  not  be  called  to  agree  to 
and  ratify  the  said  form  of  government,  without  a  direct  violation 
of  our  constitution,  which  it  is  the  duty  of  every  individual  in  this 
State  to  protect  and  support.  In  this  opinion,  all  your  delegates 
who  were  attending  were  unanimous.  I,  Sir,  opposed  it  also  upon 
a  more  extensive  ground,  as  being  directly  contrary  to  the  mode  of 
altering  our  federal  government,  established  in  our  original  compact; 
and,  as  such,  being  a  direct  violation  of  the  mutual  faith  plighted 
by  the  States  to  each  other,  I  gave  it  my  negative. 

[106]  I  was  also  of  opinion,  that  the  States,  considered  as  States, 
in  their  political  capacity,  are  the  members  of  a  federal  government; 
that  the  States,  in  their  political  capacity,  or  as  sovereignties,  are 
entitled,  and  only  entitled  originally  to  agree  upon  the  form  of,  and 
submit  themselves  to,  a  federal  government,  and  afterwards,  by 
mutual  consent,  to  dissolve  or  alter  it;  that  every  thing  which  relates 
to  the  formation,  the  dissolution,  or  the  alteration  of  z  federal  govern- 
ment over  States  equally  free,  sovereign,  and  independent,  is  the 
peculiar  province  of  the  States^  in  their  sovereign  or  political  capacity, 
in  the  same  manner  as  what  relates  to  forming  alliances  or  treaties 
of  peace,  amity,  or  commerce;  and  that  the  people  at  large,  in  their 
individual  capacity,  have  no  more  right  to  interfere  in  the  one  case 
than  in  the  other.  That  according  to  these  principles  we  originally 
acted,  in  forming  our  confederation;  it  was  the  States,  as  States, 
by  their  representatives  in  Congress,  that  formed  the  articles  of 
confederation;  it  was  the  States,  as  States,  by  their  legislatures, 
ratified  those  articles;  and  it  was  there  established  and  provided, 
that  the  States,  as  States,  that  Is,  by  their  legislatures,  should  agree 
to  any  alterations  that  should  hereafter  be  proposed  in  the  federal 
government,  before  they  should  be  binding;  and  any  alterations 
agreed  to  in  any  other  manner,  cannot  release  the  States  from  the 
obligation  they  are  under  to  each  other,  by  virtue  of  the  original 
articles  of  confederation.  The  people  of  the  different  States  never 
made  any  objection  to  the  manner  the  articles  of  confederation  were 
formed  or  ratified,  or  to  the  mode  by  which  alterations  were  to  be 
made  in  that  government;  with  the  rights  of  their  respective  States 
they  wished  not  to  interfere.     Nor  do  I  believe  the  people,  in  their 


230      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

individual  capacity,  would  ever  have  expected  or  desired  to  have 
been  appealed  to,  on  the  present  occasion,  in  violation  of  the  rights 
of  their  respective  States,  if  the  favorers  of  the  proposed  constitu- 
tion, imagining  they  had  a  better  chance  of  forcing  it  to  be  adopted 
by  a  hasty  appeal  to  the  people  at  large,  who  could  not  be  so  good 
judges  of  the  dangerous  consequence,  had  not  insisted  upon  this 
mode.  Nor  do  these  positions  in  the  least  interfere  with  the  prin- 
ciple, that  all  power  originates  from  the  people;  because,  when  once 
the  people  have  exercised  their  power  in  establishing  and  forming 
themselves  into  a  State  governmentj  it  never  devolves  back  to  them, 
nor  have  they  a  right  to  resume  or  again  to  exercise  thai  powers  until 
such  events  take  place  as  will  amount  to  a  dissolution  of  their  State 
government.  And  it  is  an  established  principle,  that  a  dissolution 
or  alteration  of  a  federal  government  doth  not  dissolve  the  State 
governments  which  compose  it.  It  was  also  my  opinion,  that, 
upon  principles  of  sound  policy^  the  agreement  or  disagreement  to 
the  proposed  system  ought  to  have  been  by  the  State  legislatures; 
in  which  case,  let  the  event  have  been  what  it  would,  there  would 
have  been  but  little  prospect  of  the  public  peace  being  disturbed 
thereby.  Whereas,  the  attempt  to  force  down  this  system,  although 
Congress  and  the  respective  State  legislatures  should  disapprove, 
by  appealing  to  the  people,  and  to  procure  its  establishment  in  a 
manner  totally  unconstitutional,  has  a  tendency  to  set  the  State 
governments  and  their  subjects  at  variance  with  each  other,  to  lessen 
the  obligations  of  governmenty  to  weaken  the  bands  of  society ^  to  intro- 
duce anarchy  and  confusion^  and  to  light  the  torch  of  discord  and 
civil  war  throughout  this  continent.  All  these  considerations  weighed 
with  me  most  forcibly  against  giving  my  assent  to  the  mode  by  which 
it  is  resolved  this  system  is  to  be  ratified,  and  were  urged  by  me  in 
opposition  to  the  measure. 

[107]  I  have  now,  Sir,  in  discharge  of  the  duty  I  owe  to  this 
House,  given  such  information  as  hath  occurred  to  me,  which  I 
consider  most  material  for  them  to  know;  and  you  will  easily  per- 
ceive, from  this  detail,  that  a  great  portion  of  that  time,  which  ought 
to  have  been  devoted  calmly  and  impartially  to  consider  what  altera- 
tions in  our  federal  government  would  be  most  likely  to  procure 
and  preserve  the  happiness  of  the  Union,  was  employed  in  a  violent 
struggle  on  the  one  side  to  obtain  all  power  and  dominion  in  their 
own  hands,  and  on  the  other  to  prevent  it;  and  that  the  aggran^ 
dizement  of  particular  States  and  particular  individuals,  appears  to 
have  been  much  more  the  object  sought  after,  than  the  welfare  of 
our  country. 

[108]  The  interest  of  this  State,  not  confined  merely  to  itself. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLVIII  23 1 

abstracted  from  all  others,  but  considered  relatively,  as  far  as  was 
consistent  with  the  common  interest  of  the  other  States,  I  thought  it 
my  duty  to  pursue,  according  to  the  best  opinion  I  could  form  of  it. 

[109]  When  I  took  my  seat  in  the  convention,  I  found  it  attempt- 
ing to  bring  forward  a  system,  which  I  was  sure  never  had  entered 
into  the  contemplation  of  those  I  had  the  honor  to  represent,  and 
which,  upon  the  fullest  consideration,  I  considered  not  only  injurious 
to  the  interest  and  the  rights  of  this  State,  but  also  incompatible 
with  the  political  happiness  and  freedom  of  the  States  in  general. 
From  that  time  until  my  business  compelled  me  to  leave  the  con- 
vention, I  gave  it  every  possible  opposition,  in  every  stage  of  its 
progression.  I  opposed  the  system  there  with  the  same  explicit 
frankness  with  which  I  have  here  given  you  a  history  of  our  pro- 
ceedings; an  account  of  my  own  conduct,  which  in  a  particular 
manner  I  consider  you  as  having  a  right  to  know.  While  there, 
I  endeavoured  to  act  as  became  a  free  man,  and  the  delegate  of  a  free 
State.  Should  my  conduct  obtain  the  approbation  of  those  who 
appointed  me,  I  will  not  deny  it  would  afford  me  satisfaction;  but 
to  me  that  approbation  was  at  most  no  more  than  a  secondary  con- 
sideration; my  first  was  to  deserve  it.  Left  to  myself,  to  act  accord- 
ing to  the  best  of  my  discretion,  my  conduct  should  have  been  the 
same,  had  I  been  even  sure  your  censure  would  have  been  my  only 
reward;  since  I  hold  it  sacredly  my  duty  to  dash  the  cup  of  poison, 
if  possible,  from  the  hand  of  a  State,  or  an  individual,  however 
anxious  the  one  or  the  other  might  be  to  swallow  it. 

[no]  Indulge,  me  Sir,  in  a  single  observation  further.  There 
are  persons  who  endeavour  to  hold  up  the  idea,  that  this  system  is 
only  opposed  by  the  officers  of  government  —  I,  Sir,  am  in  that 
predicament.  I  have  the  honor  to  hold  an  appointment  in  this 
State.  Had  it  been  considered  any  objection,  I  presume  I  should 
not  have  been  appointed  to  the  convention.  If  it  could  have  had 
any  effect  on  my  mind,  it  would  only  be  that  of  warming  my  heart 
with  gratitude,  and  rendering  me  more  anxious  to  promote  the  true 
interest  of  that  State  which  has  conferred  on  me  the  obligation, 
and  to  heighten  my  guilt  had  I  joined  in  sacrificing  its  essential 
rights.  But,  Sir,  it  would  be  well  to  remember,  that  this  system 
is  not  calculated  to  diminish  the  number  or  the  value  of  offices;  on 
the  contrary,  if  adopted,  it  will  be  productive  of  an  enormous  increase 
in  their  number;  many  of  them  will  be  also  of  great  honor  and  emolu- 
ments. Whether,  Sir,  in  this  variety  of  appointments,  and  in  the 
scramble  for  them,  I  might  not  have  as  good  a  prospect  to  advantage 
myself  as  many  others,  is  not  for  me  to  say;  but  this.  Sir,  I  can 
say  with  truth,  that,  so  far  was  I  from  being  influenced  in  my  con- 


232      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

duct  by  interest,  or  the  consideration  of  office,  that  I  would  cheer- 
fully resign  the  appointment  I  now  hold;  I  would  bind  myself  never 
to  accept  another,  either  under  the  general  government  or  that 
of  my  own  State.  I  would  do  more,  Sir;  —  so  destructive  do  I 
consider  the  present  system  to  the  happiness  of  my  country,  I  would 
cheerfully  sacrifice  that  share  of  property  with  which  Heaven  has 
blessed  a  life  of  industry;  I  would  reduce  myself  to  indigence  and 
poverty,  and  those  who  are  dearer  to  me  than  my  own  existence 
I  would  intrust  to  the  care  and  protection  of  that  Providence,  who 
hath  so  kindly  protected  myself,  if  on  those  terms  only  I  could  pro- 
cure my  country  to  reject  those  chains  which  are  forged  for  it. 


CLIX.    LiSTE  DES  Membres  et  Officiers  du  Congres.     1788.^ 

Avec  des  nottes  sur  les  personnages  les  plus 
interessans  des  differens  Etats. 

New  Hampshire. 

Nich,  Gillman.  .  .  .  Jeune  homme  a  pretentions;  peu  aime  par 

ses  collegues;  on  Tappelle  par  derision  le  Congres.  II 
a  cependant  I'avantage  d'avoir  represente  son  Etat 
dans  la  grande  Convention  de  Philadelphie  et 
d'avoir  signe  la  nouvelle  Constitution.  Cette  cir- 
constance  prouve  qu'il  n'y  a  pas  un  grand  choiz  a 
faire  dans  cet  Etat,  on  que  du  moins  les  hommes  les 
plus  senses  et  les  plus  habiles  ne  sont  pas  asses 
riches  pour  accepter  une  place  publique.  M.  G.  a 
servi  pendant  la  guerre  comme  aide  de  camp.  .  .  . 

John  Langdon,  Un  des  hommes  les  plus  interessans  et  les  plus 

aimables  des  Etats  Unis;  ci  devant  gouverneur  du 
New  Hampshire  et  a  la  tete  d'un  parti  tres  puissant, 
qui  se  trouve  en  opposition  avec  le  Gal.  Sullivan.* 

*  Cette  opposition  n*est  que  personelle  et  ne  porte  aucunement  sur  les  sentimens 
politiques.  Ces  deux  antagonistes  sont  egalement  attaches  a  leur  patrte,  a  la  revolu- 
tion et  a  la  France,  mais  Sullivan  est  l*homme  du  peuple  et  Langdon  le  protege  des 
ggndemen,  L'un  a  pour  lui  les  gens  de  la  campagne,  Pautre  les  commer^ans.  Quel- 
que  sott  le  succes  de  leurs  intrigues,  la  chose  publique  ne  peut  jamais  y  perdre  et  les 
principes  de  gouvernement  resteront  les  memes.  Dans  la  societe,  M.  Langdon  I'em- 
porte  de  beau  coup  sur  son  adversaire.  Mais  il  faut  voir  Sullivan  au  barreau  ou  a 
la  tete  de  la  milice. 

*  French  Archives:  Aiinistrre  des  A f aires  Etrangeres.  Archioes.  Etatt-Unis. 
Cortespondance.  Supplement^  2e  Serie,  Vol.  XV,  pp.  3 14  ff.  Although  this  document 
strictly  does  not  belong  to  the  records  of  the  Federal  Convention,  it  contains  such 
interesting  characterizations  of  so  many  of  the  delegates  to  that  body,  that  it  has 
seemed  worth  while  to  print  it. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLIX 


233 


[Elbridge 
Gerry,] 


[Oliver  EUs' 
worth] 


M.  L.  a  fait  une  grande  fortune  dans  le  commerce, 
c'est  le  Rob.  Morris  de  son  Etat,  faisant  une  grande 
depense  et  s'attachant  beaucoup  de  citoyens  par 
ses  liberalites.  II  a  ete  un  des  principaux  membres 
de  la  convention  de  Philadelphie,  mais  il  n'a  siege 
en  Congres  que  peu  de  jours,  et  quoique  ses  col- 
legues  lui  ayent  offert  la  presidence,  II  n'a  pas  voulu 
y  rester,  parce  qu'il  avoit  en  vue  de  se  faire  reelire 
Gouverneur  dans  le  New  Hampshire,  et  que  ses 
affaires  de  commerce  ne  lui  permettent  pas  de  faire 
une  longue  absence.  II  est  sincerement  attache  a 
la  France  et  meme  prevenu  pour  nos  usages  et  nos 
manieres.  Pour  repandre  le  gout  de  nos  meubles, 
il  en  a  fair  venir  de  tres  beaux  de  Paris.  On  pre- 
tend qu'il  est  jaloux  de  sa  femme,  chose  asses  rare 
en  Amerique.  Plusieurs  officiers  fran9oi8  ont  vu 
avec  chagrin  que  cette  jalousie  n'etoit  gueres  fondee. 

Massachusetts. 

...  En  Congres,  il  [Nathan  Dane]  a  toujours 
fait  cause  commune  avec  M.  Gerry*,  qui  ne  nous 
aime  pas,  et  qui  s'est  principalement  oppose  a  la 
ratification  de  notre  Convention  consulaire.  II  a 
plus  de  talens  que  M.  Gerry  et  moins  de  duplicite. 

Connecticut. 

.  .  .  M.  Ellsworth,  ci  devant  membre  du  Con- 
gres, est  un  homme  absolument  de  la  meme  tour- 
nure  et  des  memes  dispositions.!     On  peut  en  dire 


*  M.  Elb.  Gerry  est  un  petit  homme,  tres  intriguant  et  rempli  de  petites  finesses, 
qui  jusqu'ici  lui  ont  asses  bien  reussi.  C'est  celui  de  tous  les  membres  du  Congres 
qui  ait  ete  le  plus  longtems  en  activite.  II  y  a  acquis  une  grande  co[n]noissance  des 
affaire  publiques,  dont  il  tire  parti  pour  se  faire  valoir  aupres  de  ses  concitoyens.  En 
1782,  il  fit  un  assez  beau  discours  dans  la  legislature  de  Boston  pour  Tengager  a  ne  pas 
permettre  la  ratification  de  la  Convention  consulaire.  II  affecte  d*aimer  beaucoup  M. 
le  Chev.  de  La  Luzerne,  mais  on  doit  se  mefier  de  toutes  ses  belles  protestations. 
Nous  avons  generalement  tres  peu  d'amis  parmi  les  hommes  puisans  du  Massachu- 
setts, notre  commerce  ne  les  interesse  pas  et  nos  pecheries  les  genent.  M.  Bowdoin, 
M.  King,  M.  Sam.  Adams  etc.  puisent  toutes  leurs  notions  politiques  dans  les  ecrits 
ou  dans  les  conversations  de  Mrs.  Jay  et  J.  Adams.  Le  peuple  en  general  aime  les 
Francois,  puisqu'il  a  vu  souvent  nos  flottes  et  qu*il  se  souvient  des  services  que  nous 
lui  avons  rendus. 

tThat  is,  of  Benjamin  Huntington,  of  whom  it  has  just  been  said:  "Cest  un 
homme  simple  dans  ses  manieres,  mais  sage  et  infiniment  raisonnable;  n'ayant  jamais 
suivi  aucun  parti  et  voulant  le  bien  sans  considerer  des  motifs  personnels.  II  nous  a 
souvent  donne  des  preuves  d'attachement  et  de  zele." 


234  RECORDS  OF  THE   FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

autant  de  M.  Sherman.  —  Les  gens  de  cet  Etat  ont, 

en  general,  un  caractere  national  qu'on  ne  trouve 

gueres  dans  les  autres  parties  de  continent.    lis  se 

raprochent  plus  de  la  simplicite   republicaine;    ils 

sont  tons  a  leur    aise    sans    connoitre   I'opulence. 

L'economie   nirale  et  Industrie  domestiques  sont 

poussees  tres  loin  dans  le  Connecticut;   le  peuple 

y  est  heureuz. 

New  York. 

AUx.  Hamilton.         .  .   .   Grand  orateur;  intrepide  dans  les  debats 

publics.  Partisan  zele  et  meme  outre  de  la  nouvelle 
Constitution  et  ennemi  declare  du  gouv.  Clinton, 
qu'il  a  eu  le  courage  d'attaquer  publiquement  dans 
les  Gazettes,  sans  aucune  provocation.  Cest  un 
de  ces  hommes  rares  qui  s'est  distingue  egalement 
aU  champ  de  bataille  et  au  barreau.  II  doit  tout 
a  ses  talens.  Une  indiscretion  I'a  brouille  avec  le 
gal.  Washington,  dont  il  etait  le  secretaire  de  con- 
fiance;  d'autres  indiscretions  I'ont  oblige  de  quitter 
le  Congres  en  1783.  II  a  un  peu  trop  de  preten- 
tions et  trop  peu  de  prudence. 

Voici  ce  que  M.  le  chev[alierj  de  L[a]  L[u- 
zerne]  dit  de  lui  en  1780:  ''M.  H[amilton],  un  des 
**  aides  de  camp  du  Gal.  Washington]  a  le  plus 
^'d'ascendant  sur  lui;  homme  d'esprit,  d'une 
^'mediocre  probite;  eloigne  des  Anglais  parce 
^'qu'etant  d'une  tres  basse  extraction  dans  une  de 
''leurs  colonies,  il  craint  de  rentrer  dans  son  ancien 
"  Etat.  Ami  particulier  de  M.  de  La  Fayette.  M. 
''Conway  pense  qu'  Hamilton  hait  les  Francois, 
''qu'il  est  absolument  corrompu  et  que  les  liaisons 
"qu'il  paroitra  avoir  avec  nous  ne  seront  jamais 
"que  trompeuses." 

M.  Hamilton  n'a  rien  fait  qui  puisse  justifier 
cette  derniere  opinion;  il  est  seulement  trop  im- 
petueux,et  a  force  devouloirtout  conduire,il  manque 
son  but.  Son  eloquence  est  souvent  hors  de  saison 
dans  les  debats  publics,  ou  I'on  prefere  la  precision 
et  la  clarte  a  une  imagination  brillante.  On  croit 
que  M.  H[amilton]  est  I'auteur  de  pamphlet  inti- 
tule le  FederalisU.  II  y  a  encore  manque  son  but. 
Cet  ouvrage  n'est  d'aucune  utilite  aux  gens  instruits, 
et  il  est  trop  savant  et  trop  long  pour  les  ignorans. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLIX 


235 


Dayton. 


II  lui  a  cependant  donne  une  grande  celebrite,  et 

Ton  a  nomme  le  Hamilton  une  petite  fregatte  que, 

dans  la  grande  procession  federate  on  a  traine  par 

les  rues  de  New  York.    Mais  ces  parades  ne  sont 

ici  comme  ailleurs  qu'une  impression  nomentanee  et 

comme  le  parti  des  Antifederalistes  est  le  plus  nom- 

breux  dans  I'Etat,  M.  Hamilton  a  plutot  perdu  que 

gagne  par  le  zele  qu'il  a  deploye  a  cette  occasion. 

Etranger  dans  cet  Etat,  oil  il  a  ete  eleve  par 

charite,  M.  Hamilton  a  trouve  moyen  d'enlever  la 

fiUe  du  Gal.  Schuyler*,  grand  proprietaire  et  tres 

influent.    Apres  s'etre  reconcilie  avec  la  famille,  il 

jouit  dans  ce  moment  ci  du  credit  de    son   beau 

pcre. 

Nfw  Jersey. 

.  •  .  Peu  connu;  n'ayant  d'autre  merite  que 
d'etre  le  fils  d'un  bon  patriote  et  du  bienfaiteur  de 
M.  d'Anteroches,  ce  qui  fait  presumer  qu'il  aime  les 
Francois. 

II  se  trouve  dans  cet  Etat  plusieurs  particuliers 
qu'il  nous  importe  de  menager,  parce  qu'ils  sont  nos 
amis,  et  qu'ils  jouissent  d'une  grande  influence. 

I.  William  Livingston^  Esq.,  Gouvemeur  depuis 
le  commencement  de  la  revolution,  tres  instruit, 
ferme,  patriote,  preferant  le  bien  public  a  sa  popu- 
larity et  ayant  souvent  expose  sa  place  pour  empecher 
la  legislature  de  passer  de  mauvaises  lois.  Quoi- 
qu'il  ne  cesse  de  fronder  le  peuple,  il  est  toujours 
reelu,  puisque  meme  ses  ennemis  conviennent  qu'il 
est  un  des  hommes  les  plus  habiles  et  les  plus  ver- 
tueux  du  continent.  II  est  pere  de  Made  Jay  et 
de  M.  Broc.  Livingston.  .  .  . 

Pennsylvania. 

Le  Dr.  Franklinj  President  actuel  de  cet  Etat, 
set  trop  bien  connu  pour  avoir  besoin  des  eloges 
que  nous  lui  devons.  II  sent,  plus  que  tout  autre 
Americain,  que,  pour  etre  vraiment  patriote,  il  faut 
etre  I'ami  de  la  France.  Malheureusement  ce  philoso- 

*  Les  enlevemens  sont  plus  co[in]muns  en  Amerique  qu'en  France,  les  parens  se 
fachent  d'abord,  ils  s'attendrissent  et  se  reconcilient  au  bout  de  quelques  mois.  Tout 
le  monde  sMnt^resse  a  ces  sortes  de  manage,  puisqu'ils  paroissent  plus  conformes  a 
la  premiere  impulsion  de  la  nature. 


[Livingston.] 


{Franklin^ 


236 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


[Miffiin.] 


[R.  Morris,] 


[G.  Morris.] 


[fFilson.] 


phe,  qui  a  su  braver  les  foudres  du  del  et  du  Parle- 
ment  d'Angleterre,  ne  luttera  plus  longtems  centre 
les  infirmites  de  I'age.  Nous  devons  regretter  que 
I'immortalite  n'appartienne  qu'a  son  nom  et  a  ses 
ecrits. 

Tho.  Mifflin.  Ci  devant  Gal.,  President  du 
Congres,  orateur  de  I'assemblee,  etc.  Ami  declare  et 
eprouve  de  la  France.  Tres  populaire  et  maniant 
avec  une  facilite  etonnante  le  monstre  a  cent  tetes 
apelle  peuple.  Bon  avocat,  bon  officier,  bon  patri* 
ote,  et  d'une  societe  agreable.  Faisant  bien  tout 
se  qu'il  entreprend,  par  ce  qu'il  tient  de  la  nature 
et  qu'il  ne  peut  que  gagner  en  se  montrant  tel 
qu'il  est. 

Rob.  Morris.  Surintendant  des  Finances  pen- 
dant la  guerre,  negociant  tres  puissant  dans  son  Etat. 
Devant  tout  a  sa  bonne  tete  et  a  son  experience,  peu 
a  Tetude.  II  s'est  un  peu  refroidi  sur  le  compte  de 
la  France  depuis  que  M.  de  Marbois  a  pris  avec  tant 
de  chaleur  le  parti  de  M.  Hotker  et  qu'on  a  des- 
approuve  son  contrat  avec  la  ferme.  II  sera  cepen- 
dant  facile  de  la  gagner  par  de  bons  procedes. 
C'est  un  homme  du  plus  grand  poids  et  dont 
I'amitie  ne  sauroit  nous  etre  indifiFerente. 

Gouv.  Morris.  Citoyen  de  I'Etat  de  New  York, 
mais  toujours  en  relation  avec  M.  Rob.  Morris  et 
ayant  represente  plusieurs  fois  la  Pennsylvanie. 
Avocat  celebre;  une  des  tetes  les  mieuz  organisees 
du  continent,  mais  sans  moeurs,  et,  si  I'on  en  croit 
ses  ennemis,  sans  principes;  infiniment  interessant 
dans  le  conversation  et  ayant  etudie  avec  un  soin 
particulier  la  partie  des  finances.  II  travaille 
constamment  avec  M.  Rob.  Morris.  On  le  craint 
encore  plus  ne  I'admire,  mais  peu  de  gens 
I'estiment. 

.  .  .  James  fFilson.  Jurisconsulte  distingue. 
C'est  lui  qui  fut  designe  par  M.  Gerard  comme 
avocat  de  la  nation  fran^oise,  place  dont  on  a 
reconnu  depuis  I'inutilite.  Homme  altier,  aristo- 
crate  intrepide,  actif,  eloquent,  profond,  dissimule, 
connu  sous  le  nom  de  James  the  Caledonian,  que  ses 
e[n]nemis  lui  ont  donne.  Ayant  derange  sa  fortune 
par  de  grandes  enterprises  que  les  affaires  publiques 


APPENDIX  A,   CLIX 


237 


[Dickinson.] 


[Martin.] 


ne  lui  permettoient  pas  de  8uivre.  Mediocrement 
attache  a  la  France. 

•  .  .  John  Dickinson.  Auteur  des  lettres  du 
fermier  de  Pensylvanie;  homme  tres  riche,  etant 
au  co[m]mencement  de  la  revolution  du  parti  anti 
anglican,  sans  cependant  favoriser  I'independance, 
contre  laquelle  il  a  meme  vote  publiquement.  II 
est  vieux,  foible  et  sans  influence.  •  •  . 

Maryland. 

.  .  .  M.  Luther  Martin.  Avocat  distingue  et 
qui  a  beaucoup  ecrti  contre  les  resolutions  de  la 
Convention  de  Philadelphie,  dont  il  a  ete  membre. 

Virginie. 

James  Madison        Instruit,  sage,  modere,  docile,  studieuz;    pent 

etre  plus  profond  que  M.  Hamilton,  mais  moins 
brillant;  ami  intime  de  M.  Jefferson  et  sincerement 
attache  a  la  France.  II  a  ete  en  Congres  fort  jeune 
et  il  paroit  s'etre  voue  particulierement  aux  affaires 
publiques.  II  pourra  etre  un  jour  gouverneur  de 
son  Etat,  si  sa  modestie  lui  permet  d'accepter  cette 
place.  II  a  refuse  en  dernier  lieu  celle  de  president 
du  Congres.  C'est  un  homme  qu'il  faut  etudier 
longtemps  pour  s'en  former  une  idee  juste. 

.  .  .  Edmund  Randolph^  gouverneur  actuel,  est 
un  des  hommes  les  plus  distingues  en  Amerique  par 
ses  talents  et  son  influence;  il  a  cependant  perdu 
une  partie  de  sa  consideration  en  s'opposant  avec 
trop  de  violence  a  la  ratification  de  la  nouvelle 
Constitution.  II  fut  membre  de  Congres  en  1780 
et  1781,  et  a  en  juger  par  toutes  les  difiicultes 
qu'eprouva  M.  le  Chev[alier]  de  la  Luzerne  en 
negociant  avec  lui  notre  conventionconsulaire,  nous 
devons  le  considerer  au  moins  comme  tres  indif- 
ferent sur  le  compte  de  la  France.  Toutes  les  objec- 
tions qui  se  trouvent  dans  le  raport  de  M.  Jay 
furent  faites  alors  par  M.  Randolph  et  le  ministre 
de  France  ne  dut  son  succes  qu'a  la  moderation  des 
autres  membres  du  Committe.  .  .  . 


[Randolph.] 


Hugh 
Williamson. 


Caroline  du  Nord. 

Medecin  et  ci-devant  Professeur  d'astronomie. 
Bizarre  a  Tezces,  aimant  a  perorer,  mais  parlant 


238      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

avec  esprit.  II  est  difficile  de  bien  connoitre  son 
caractere;  il  est  meme  possible  qu'il  n'en  ait  pas; 
mais  son  activite  lui  a  donne  depuis  quelque  temps 
beaucoup  d'influence  au  Congres.    .  .  . 

Carolina  du  Sud. 

[RutUdge.]  .  .  .  /.  Rutledge.    Gouverneur  pendant  la  guerre, 

membre  du  Congres,  de  la  Convention  et  en  general 
employe  dans  toutes  les  grandes  occasions.  L'homme 
le  plus  eloquent,  mais  le  plus  fier  et  le  plus  imperi- 
eux  des  Etats-Unis.  II  tire  parti  de  sa  grande  influ- 
ence et  de  ses  co[n]noissances  comme  Avocat  pour 
ne  pas  payer  ses  dettes,  qui  ezcedent  de  beaucoup 
sa  fortune.     Son  fils  voyage  en  France  pour  s'in- 

stniire.    ... 

Geofgie, 

Ahrak.  Baldwin.        Raisonnable  et  bien  intentionne,  mais  n'ayant 

jamais  en  I'occasion  de  sa  distinguer.  Le  Congres 
vient  de  lui  en  donner  les  moyens,  en  le  no[m]mant 
parmi  les  Commissaires  pour  regler  ses  comptes 
avec  les  Etats. 

WUliam  Few.  Sans  etre  un  grand  genie,  il  a  plus  de  connois- 

sances  que  son  nom  et  son  exterieur  ne  paroissent 
indiquer.  Quoique  jeune  encore,  il  a  ete  constam- 
ment  employe  pendant  la  guerre.  Ses  collegues  en 
ont  une  bonne  opinion  II  est  tres  timide  et  em- 
barassant  dans  la  societe,  a  moins  qu'on  ne  lui  parle 
d'affaires.      

CLX.    Hugh  Williamson:  Remarks  on  the  New  Plan  of  Gov- 
ernment.^ 

It  seems  to  be  generally  admitted,  that  the  system  of  govern- 
ment which  has  been  proposed  by  the  late  convention,  is  well  cal- 
culated to  relieve  us  from  many  of  the  grievances  under  which  we 
have  been  laboring.  If  I  might  express  my  particular  sentiments 
on  this  subject,  I  should  describe  it  as  more  free  and  more  perfect 
than  any  form  of  government  that  has  ever  been  adopted  by  any 
nation;  but  I  would  not  say  it  has  no  faults.  Imperfection  is 
inseparable  from  every  device.     Several  objections  were  made  to 

^  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  Constitution,  pp.  397-406;  first  printed  in  the  State  Gauttt 
of  North  Carolina.  No  file  of  that  paper  is  known  to  exist,  so  its  date  is  doubtful. 
It  probably  appeared  in  1788.  Mr.  Ford  printed  his  copy  from  a  clipping  preserved 
by  Williamson. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXI  239 

this  system  b^  two  or  three  very  respectable  characters  in  the  con- 
vention, which  have  been  the  subject  of  much  conversation;  .  .  . 
When  you  refer  the  proposed  system  to  the  particular  circum- 
stances of  North  Carolina,  and  consider  how  she  is  to  be  affected  by 
this  plan,  you  must  find  the  utmost  reason  to  rejoice  in  the  prospect 
of  better  times.  This  is  a  sentiment  that  I  have  ventured  with  the 
greater  confidence,  because  it  is  the  general  opinion  of  my  late- 
honourable  colleagues,  and  I  have  the  utmost  reliance  in  their  supe- 
rior abilities.  But  if  our  constituents  shall  discover  faults  where 
we  could  not  see  any — or  if  they  shall  suppose  that  a  plan  is  formed 
for  abridging  their  liberties,  when  we  imagined  that  we  had  been 
securing  both  liberty  and  property  on  a  more  stable  foundation — 
if  they  perceive  that  they  are  to  suffer  a  loss,  where  we  thought 
they  must  rise  from  a  misfortune — they  will,  at  least  do  us  the 
justice  to  charge  those  errors  to  the  head,  and  not  to  the  heart. 


CLXI.    The  Federalist,  No.  XXXIII.    [Hamilton.]^ 

But  suspicion  may  ask,  Why  then  was  it  [Art.  I,  Sect.  8, 
last  paragraph]  introduced.^  The  answer  is,  that  it  could  only  have 
been  done  for  greater  caution,  and  to  guard  against  all  cavilling 
refinements  in  those  who  might  hereafter  feel  a  disposition  to  curtail 
and  evade  the  legitimate  authorities  of  the  union.  The  convention 
probably  foresaw,  that  it  has  been  a  principal  aim  of  these  papers 
to  inculcate,  that  the  danger  which  most  threatens  our  political 
welfare  is,  that  the  state  governments  will  finally  sap  the  founda- 
tions of  the  union;  and  might  therefore  think  it  necessary,  in  so 
cardinal  a  point,  to  leave  nothing  to  construction.  Whatever  may 
have  been  the  inducement  to  it,  the  wisdom  of  the  precaution  is 
evident  from  the  cry  which  has  been  raised  against  it;  as  that  very 
cry  betrays  a  disposition  to  question  the  great  and  essential  truth 
which  it  is  manifestly  the  object  of  that  provision  to  declare. 


CLXII.    [Gerry:]  Reply  to  a  Landholder,  I.* 

Mr.  Russell: 

You  are  desired  to  inform  the  publick  from  good  authority,  that 
Mr.  Gerry  .  .  .  never  heard,  in  the  Convention,  a  motion  made, 
much  less  did  make  any,  "for  the  redemption  of  the  old  continental 

*  Hallowell's  edition,  1837;  first  printed  in  the  Daily  Adoertiser^  January  3,  1788. 

•  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  the  Constitution,  127-128;  first  printed  in  the  Massachusetts 
Centinelf  January  5,  1788.  The  article  by  "The  Landholder"  to  which  this  a  reply, 
will  be  found  above,  CLVII.  The  controversy  may  be  followed  farther  in  CLXXV, 
CXXXXIX-CXCn  and  CXCIX. 


240     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

money;"  but  that  he  proposed  the  public  debt  should  be  made 
neither  better  nor  worse  by  the  new  system,  but  stand  precisely 
on  the  same  ground  by  the  Articles  of  Confederation;  that  had  there 
been  such  a  motion,  he  was  not  interested  in  it,  as  he  did  not  then, 
neither  does  he  now,  own  the  value  of  ten  pounds  in  continental 
money;  that  he  neither  was  called  on  for  his  reasons  for  not  signing, 
but  stated  them  fully  in  the  progress  of  the  business.  His  objec- 
tions are  chiefly  contained  in  his  letter  to  the  Legislature;  that  he 
believes  his  colleagues  men  of  too  much  honour  to  assert  what  is 
not  truth;  that  his  reasons  in  the  Convention  "were  totally  differ- 
ent from  those  which  he  published,"  that  his  only  motive  for  dis- 
senting from  the  Constitution,  was  a  firm  persuasion  that  it  would 
endanger  the  liberties  of  America;  that  if  the  people  are  of  a  different 
opinion,  they  have  a  right  to  adopt;  but  he  was  not  authorized  to 
an  act,  which  appeared  to  him  was  a  surrender  of  their  liberties; 
that  a  representative  of  a  free  state,  he  was  bound  in  honour  to 
vote  according  to  his  idea  of  her  true  interest,  and  that  he  should 
do  the  same  in  similar  circumstances. 


CLXIII.    Oliver  Ellsworth  in  the  Connecticut  Convention.* 

January  7,  1788. 

Mr.  President,  this  is  a  most  important  clause  in  the  Constitu- 
tion; and  the  gentlemen  do  well  to  offer  all  the  objections  which 
they  have  against  it.  Through  the  whole  of  this  debate,  I  have 
attended  to  the  objections  which  have  been  made  against  this  clause; 
and  I  think  them  all  to  be  unfounded.  The  clause  is  general;  it 
gives  the  general  legislature  "power  to  lay  and  collect  taxes,  duties, 
imposts,  and  excises,  to  pay  the  debts  and  provide  for  the  common 
defence  and  general  welfare  of  the  United  States."  There  are  three 
obejctions  against  this  clause  —  first,  that  it  is  too  extensive,  as  it 
extends  to  all  the  objects  of  taxation;  secondly,  that  it  is  partial; 
thirdly,  that  Congress  ought  not  to  have  power  to  lay  taxes  at  all. 

.  .  .  The  second  objection  is,  that  the  impost  is  not  a  proper 
mode  of  taxation;  that  it  is  partial  to  the  Southern  States.  I  con- 
fess I  am  mortified  when  I  find  gentlemen  supposing  that  their 
delegates  in  Convention  were  inattentive  to  their  duty,  and  made 
a  sacrifice  of  the  interests  of  their  constituents.     .  .  . 

This  Const^ution  defines  the  extent  of  the  powers  of  the  general 
government./if  the  general  legislature  should  at  any  time  overleap 
their  limits,  the  judicial  department  is  a  constitutional  check.     If 

^  Jonathan  Elliot,  DebaUs  in  the  several  State  Conventions  on  the  Adoption  of  the 
Federal  Constitution,  II,  190-197. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLXIII  24I 

the  United  States  go  beyond  their  powers,  If  they  make  a  law  which 
the  Constitution  does  not  authorize,  it  is  void;  and  the  judicial 
power,  the  national  judges,  who  to  secure  their  impartiality,  are  to 
be  made  independent,  will  declare  it  to  be  void.  On  the  other  hand, 
if  the  states  go  beyond  their  limits,  if  they  make  a  law  which  is  a 
usurpation  upon  the  federal  government  the  law  is  void;  and  up- 
right, independent  judges  will  declare  it  to  be  so./  Still,  however, 
if  the  United  States  and  the  individual  states  will  quarrel,  if  they 
want  to  fight,  they  may  do  it,  and  no  frame  of  government  can  pos- 
sibly prevent  it.  It  is  sufficient  for  this  Constitution,  that,  so  far 
from  laying  them  under  a  necessity  of  contending,  it  provides  every 
reasonable  check  against  it.  But  perhaps,  at  some  time  or  other, 
there  will  be  a  contest;  the  states  may  rise  against  the  general 
government.  If  this  do  take  place,  if  all  the  states  combine,  if  all 
oppose,  the  whole  will  not  eat  up  the  members,  but  the  measure 
which  is  opposed  to  the  sense  of  the  people  will  prove  abortive.  In 
republics,  it  is  a  fundamental  principle  that  the  majority  govern 
and  that  the  minority  comply  with  the  general  voice.  How  contrary, 
then,  to  republican  principles,  how  humiliating,  is  our  present  situ- 
ation! A  single  state  can  rise  up,  and  put  a  vfio  upon  the  most 
important  public  measures.  We  have  seen  this  actually  take  place. 
A  single  state  has  controlled  the  general  voice  of  the  Union;  a  min- 
ority, a  very  small  minority,  has  governed  us.  So  far  is  this  from 
being  consistent  with  republican  principles,  that  it  is,  in  effect,  the 
worst  species  of  monarchy. 

Hence  we  see  how  necessary  for  the  Union  is  a  coercive  prin- 
ciple. No  man  pretends  the  contrary:  we  all  see  and  feel  this 
necessity.  The  only  question  is.  Shall  it  be  a  coercion  of  law,  or  a 
coercion  of  arms?  There  is  no  other  possible  alternative.  Where 
will  those  who  oppose  a  coercion  of  law  come  out?  Where  will  they 
end?  A  necessary  consequence  of  their  principles  is  a  war  of  the 
states  one  against  the  other.  I  am  for  coercion  by  law  —  that  coer- 
cion which  acts  only  upon  delinquent  individuals.  This  Consti- 
tution does  not  attempt  to  coerce  sovereign  bodies,  states,  in  their 
political  capacity.  No  coercion  is  applicable  to  such  bodies,  but 
that  of  an  armed  force.  If  we  should  attempt  to  execute  the  laws 
of  the  Union  by  sending  an  armed  force  against  a  delinquent  state, 
it  would  involve  the  good  and  bad,  the  innocent  and  guilty,  in  the 
same  calamity. 

But  this  legal  coercion  singles  out  the  guilty  individual,  and 
punishes  him  for  breaking  the  laws  of  the  Union.  All  men  will  see 
the  reasonableness  of  this;  they  will  acquiesce,  and  say.  Let  the 
guilty  suffer. 


i4i  kfiCORtoS   OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

How  have  the  morals  of  the  people  been  depraved  for  the  want 
of  an  efficient  government,  which  might  establish  justice  and  right- 
eousness! For  the  want  of  this,  iniquity  has  come  in  upon  us  like 
an  overflowing  flood.  If  we  wish  to  prevent  this  alarming  evil, 
if  we  wish  to  protect  the  good  citizen  in  his  right,  we  must  lift  up 
the  standard  of  justice;  we  must  establish  a  national  government, 
to  be  enforced  by  the  equal  decisions  of  law,  and  the  peaceable  arm 
of  the  magistrate.  

CLXIV.   George  Washington  to  Edmund  Randolph.^ 

Mount  Vernon  January  8th.  1788 
The  various  passions  and  medium  by  which  men  are  influenced 
are  concomitants  of  falibility  —  engrafted  into  our  nature  for  the 
purposes  of  unerring  wisdom;  but  had  I  entertained  a  latent  hope 
(at  the  time  you  moved  to  have  the  Constitution  submitted  to  a 
second  Convention)  that  a  more  perfect  form  would  be  agreed  to 
—  in  a  word  that  any  Constitution  would  be  adopted  under  the 
impressions  and  Instructions  of  the  members,  the  publications  which 
have  taken  place  since  would  have  eradicated  every  form  of  it.  ... 
To  my  judgment,  it  is  more  clear  than  ever,  that  an  attempt 
to  amend  the  Constitution  which  is  submitted,  would  be  productive 
of  more  heat,  &  greater  confusion  than  can  well  be  conceived.  There 
are  somethings  in  the  new  form,  I  will  readily  acknowledge,  wch. 
never  did,  and  I  am  persuaded  never  will,  obtain  my  cordial  appro- 
bation; but  I  then  did  conceive,  and  now  do  most  firmly  believe, 
that,  in  the  aggregate,  it  is  the  best  Constitution  that  can  be  obtained 
at  this  Epocha;  and  that  this,  or  a  dissolution  of  the  Union  awaits 
our  choice,  &  are  the  only  alternatives  before  us  —  Thus  believing, 
I  had  not,  nor  have  I  now  any  hesitation  in  deciding  on  which  to 
lean. 

I  pray  your  forgiveness  for  the  expression  of  these  sentiments. 
In  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  your  Letter  on  this  subject,  it  was 
hardly  to  be  avoided,  although  I  am  well  disposed  to  let  the  matter 
rest  entirely  on  its  own  merits  —  and  mens  minds  to  their  own  work- 
ings.   

CLXV.    Robert  Morris  to  a  Friend.* 

January,  1788. 
This  paper  has  been  the  subject  of  infinite  investigation,  dis- 
putation, and  declamation.    While  some  have  boasted  it  as  a  work 
from  Heaven,  others  have  given  it  a  less  righteous  origin.     I  have 

^  Docuffuntary  History  ofthi  CanstihUionf  IV,  431-432. 

*  PennsyUfania  Magazine  of  Hiztory  and  Biography,  II,  191-191. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXVI  243 

many  reasons  to  believe  that  it  is  the  work  of  plain,  honest  men, 
and  such,  I  think,  it  will  appear.  Faulty  it  must  be,  for  what  is 
perfect?  But  if  adopted,  experience  will,  I  believe,  show  that  its 
faults  are  just  the  reverse  of  what  they  are  supposed  to  be.  As 
yet  this  paper  is  but  a  dead  letter.  Pennsylvania,  Delaware,  New 
Jersey,  Connecticut,  and  Georgia  have  adopted  it.  We  wait  impa- 
tiently the  result  of  their  deliberations  in  Massachusetts.  Should 
that  State  also  adopt  it,  which  I  hope  and  believij  there  will  then  be 
little  doubt  of  a  general  acquiescence. 


CLXVI.    The  Federalist,  No.  XXXVII.  [Madison].* 

Among  the  difficulties  encountered  by  the  convention,  a  very 
important  one  must  have  lain,  in  combining  the  requisite  stability 
and  energy  in  government,  with  the  inviolable  attention  due  to 
liberty,  and  to  the  republican  form.  Without  substantially  accom- 
plishing this  part  of  their  undertaking,  they  would  have  very 
imperfectly  fulfilled  the  object  of  their  appointment,  or  the  expecta- 
tion of  the  public:  yet  that  it  could  not  be  easily  accomplished, 
will  be  denied  by  no  one  who  is  unwilling  to  betray  his  ignorance 
of  the  subject.    .  .  . 

Here,  then,  are  three  sources  of  vague  and  incorrect  definitions; 
indistinctness  of  the  object,  imperfection  of  the  organ  of  perception, 
inadequateness  of  the  vehicle  of  ideas.  Any  one  of  these  must 
produce  a  certain  degree  of  obscurity.  The  convention,  in  delineating 
the  boundary  between  the  federal  and  state  jurisdictions,  must  have 
experienced  the  full  effect  of  them  all. 

To  the  difficulties  already  mentioned,  may  be  added  the  inter- 
fering pretensions  of  the  larger  and  smaller  states.  We  cannot 
err,  in  supposing  that  the  fo  mer  would  contend  for  a  participation 
in  the  government,  fully  proportioned  to  their  superior  wealth  and 
importance;  and  that  the  latter  would  not  be  less  tenacious  of  the 
equality  at  present  enjoyed  by  them.  We  may  well  suppose,  that 
neither  side  would  entirely  y'eld  to  the  other,  and  consequently 
that  the  struggle  could  be  terminated  only  by  compromise.  It  is 
extremely  probable  also,  that  after  the  ratio  of  representation  had 
been  adjusted,  this  very  compromise  must  have  produced  a  fresh 
struggle  between  the  same  parties,  to  give  such  a  turn  to  the  organ- 
ization of  the  government,  and  to  the  distribution  of  its  powers,  as 
would  increase  the  importance  of  the  branches,  in  forming  which 
they  had  respectively  obtained  the  greatest  share  of  influence. 
There  are  features  in  the  constitution  which  warrant  each  of  these 

^  Hallowell's  edition,  1837;  first  printed  in  the  Daily  Advertiser,  January  11,  1788. 


244     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

suppositions;  and  as  far  as  either  of  them  is  well  founded,  it  shows 
that  the  convention  must  have  been  compelled  to  sacrifice  theoretic 
cal  propriety,  to  the  force  of  extraneous  considerations. 

Nor  could  it  have  been  the  large  and  small  states  only,  which 
would  marshal  themselves  in  opposition  to  each  other  on  various 
points.  Other  combinations,  resulting  from  a  difference  of  local 
position  and  policy,  must  have  created  additional  difficulties.  As 
every  state  may  be  divided  into  different  districts,  and  its  citizens 
into  different  classes,  which  give  birth  to  contending  interests  and 
local  jealousies;  so  that  different  parts  of  the  United  States  are 
distinguished  from  each  other,  by  a  variety  of  circumstances,  which 
produce  a  like  effect  on  a  larger  scale.  And  although  this  variety 
of  interests,  for  reasons  sufficiently  explained  in  a  former  paper, 
may  have  a  salutary  influence  on  the  administration  of  the  govern- 
ment when  formed;  yet  every  one  must  be  sensible  of  the  contrary 
influence,  which  must  have  been  experienced  in  the  task  of  form- 
ing it. 

Would  it  be  wonderful,  if  under  the  pressure  of  all  these  difficul- 
ties, the  convention  should  have  been  forced  into  ome  deviations 
from  that  artificial  structure  and  regular  symmetry,  which  an  ab- 
stract view  of  the  subject  might  lead  an  ingenious  theorist  to 
bestow  on  a  constitution  planned  in  his  closet,  or  in  his  imagina- 
tion? The  real  wonder  is,  that  so  many  difiUculties  should  have 
been  surmounted;  and  surmounted  with  an  unanimity  almost  as 
unprecedented,  as  it  must  have  been  unexpected.  It  is  impossible 
for  any  man  of  candour  to  reflect  on  this  circumstance,  without 
partaking  of  the  astonishment.  It  is  impossible,  for  the  man  of 
pious  reflection  not  to  perceive  in  it  a  finger  of  that  Almighty  Hand, 
which  has  been  so  frequently  and  signally  extended  to  our  relief  in 
the  critical  stages  of  the  revolution. 


CLXVIL    Robert  Yates  and  John  Lansing,  Jr.  to  the  Gover- 
nor OF  New  York.* 

Sir,  We  do  ourselves  the  honor  to  advise  your  excellency,  that 
in  pursuance  of  concurrent  resolutions  of  the  honorable  senate  and 
assembly,  we  have,  together  with  Mr.  Hamilton,  attended  the  con- 
vention, appointed  for  revising  the  articles  of  confederation,  and 
reporting  amendments  to  the  same. 

It  is  with  the  sincerest  concern  we  observe,  that,  in  the  prose- 
cution of  the  important  objects  of  our  mission,  we  have  been  reduced 

» Yates,  Secret  Proceedings  and  Debates  (Edit.  1821),  280-283.  Sec  also  CLXXXV 
below. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLXVII  24S 

to  the  disagreeable  alternative,  of  either  exceeding  the  powers  dele- 
gated to  us,  and  giving  our  assent  to  measures  which  we  conceive 
destructive  to  the  political  happiness  of  the  citizens  of  the  United 
States,  or  opposing  our  opinions  to  that  of  a  body  of  respectable 
men,  to  whom  those  citizens  had  given  the  most  unequivocal  proofs 
of  confidence. — Thus  circumstanced,  under  these  impressions,  to 
have  hesitated,  would  have  been  to  be  culpable;  we,  therefore,  gave 
the  principles  of  the  constitution,  which  has  received  the  sanction 
of  a  majority  of  the  convention,  our  decided  and  unreserved  dis- 
sent; but  we  must  candidly  confess,  that  we  should  have  been 
equally  opposed  to  any  system,  however  modified,  which  had  in 
object  the  consolidation  of  the  United  States  into  one  government. 

We  beg  leave,  briefly,  to  state  some  cogent  reasons,  which, 
among  others,  influenced  us  to  decide  against  a  consolidation  of  the 
states.    These  are  reducible  into  two  heads. 

1st.  The  limited  and  well-defined  powers  under  which  we  acted, 
and  which  could  not,  on  any  possible  construction,  embrace  an  idea 
of  such  magnitude,  as  to  assent  to  a  general  constitution,  in  sub- 
version of  that  of  the  state. 

2d.  A  conviction  of  the  impracticability  of  establishing  a  general 
government,  pervading  every  part  of  the  United  States,  and  extend- 
ing essential  benefits  to  all. 

Our  powers  were  explicit,  and  confined  to  the  sole  and  express 
purpose  of  revising  the  articles  of  confederation,  and  reporting  such 
alterations  and  provisions  therein,  as  should  render  the  federal 
constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  government,  and  the 
preservation  of  the  union. 

From  these  expressions,  we  were  led  to  believe,  that  a  system 
of  consolidated  government  could  not  in  the  remotest  degree,  have 
been  in  contemplation  of  the  legislature  of  this  state?  for  that  so 
important  a  trust,  as  the  adopting  measures  which  tended  to  deprive 
the  state  government  of  its  most  essential  rights  of  sovereignty, 
and  to  place  it  in  a  dependent  situation,  could  not  have  been  confided 
by  implication;  and  the  circumstance,  that  the  acts  of  the  conven- 
tion were  to  receive  a  state  approbation  in  the  last  resort,  forcibly 
corroborated  the  opinion,  that  our  powers  could  not  involve  the  sub- 
version of  a  constitution,  which  being  immediately  derived  from  the 
people,  could  only  be  abolished  by  their  express  consent,  and  not 
by  a  legislature,  possessing  authority  vested  in  them  for  its  presevera- 
tion.  Nor  could  we  suppose,  that  if  it  had  been  the  intention  of  the 
legislature,  to  abrogate  the  existing  confederation,  they  would,  in  such 
pointed  terms,  have  directed  the  attention  of  their  delegates  to  the 
revision  and  amendment  of  it,  in  total  exclusion  of  every  other  idea. 


246      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Reasoning  in  this  manner,  we  were  of  opinion,  that  the  leading 
feature  of  every  amendment,  ought  to  be  the  preservation  of  the 
individual  states,  in  their  uncontrouled  constitutional  rights,  and 
that  in  reserving  these,  a  mode  might  have  been  devised  of  granting 
to  the  confederacy,  the  monies  arising  from  a  general  system  of 
revenue;  the  power  of  regulating  commerce,  and  enforcing  the  observ- 
ance of  foreign  treaties,  and  other  necessary  matters  of  less  moment. 

Exclusive  of  our  objections  originating  from  the  want  of  power, 
we  entertained  an  opinion,  that  a  general  government,  however 
guarded  by  declarations  of  rights,  or  cautionary  provisions,  must 
unavoidably,  in  a  short  time,  be  productive  of  the  destruction  of 
the  civil  liberty  of  such  citizens  who  could  be  effectually  coerced 
by  it:  by  reason  of  the  extensive  territory  of  the  United  States, 
the  dispersed  situation  of  its  inhabitants,  and  the  insuperable 
difficulty  of  controuling  or  counteracting  the  views  of  a  set 
of  men  (however  unconstitutional  and  oppressive  their  acts 
might  be)  possessed  of  all  the  powers  of  government;  and  who 
from  their  remoteness  from  their  constituents  and  necessary  per- 
manency  of  office,  could  not  be  supposed  to  be  uniformly  actuated 
by  an  attention  to  their  welfare  and  happiness;  that  however  wise 
and  energetic  the  principles  of  the  general  government  might  be, 
the  extremities  of  the  United  States  could  not  be  kept  in  due  sub- 
mission and  obedience  to  its  laws,  at  the  distance  of  many  hundred 
miles  from  the  seat  of  government;  that  if  the  general  legislature 
was  composed  of  so  numerous  a  body  of  men,  as  to  represent  the 
interests  of  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  United  States,  in  the  usual 
and  true  ideas  of  representation,  the  expence  of  supporting  it  would 
become  intolerably  burdensome;  and  that  if  a  few  only  were  vested 
with  a  power  of  legislation,  the  interests  of  a  great  majority  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  United  States,  must  necessarily  be  unknown; 
or  if  known,  even  in  the  first  stages  of  the  operations  of  the 
new  government,  unattended  to. 

These  reasons  were,  in  our  opinion,  conclusive  against  any  sys- 
tem of  consolidated  government:  to  that  recommended  by  the 
convention,  we  suppose  most  of  them  very  forcibly  apply. 

It  is  not  our  intention  to  pursue  this  subject  farther,  than  merely 
to  explain  our  conduct  in  the  discharge  of  the  trust  which  the  honor- 
able the  legislature  reposed  in  us.  —  Interested,  however,  as  we  are, 
in  common  with  our  fellow  citizens,  in  the  result,  we  cannot  forbear 
to  declare,  that  we  have  the  strongest  apprehensions,  that  a  govern- 
ment so  organized,  as  that  recommended  by  the  convention,  cannot 
afford  that  security  to  equal  and  permanent  liberty,  which  we  wished 
to  make  an  invariable  object  of  our  pursuit. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXVIII  247 

We  were  not  present  at  the  completion  of  the  new  constitution; 
but  before  we  left  the  convention,  its  principles  were  so  well  estab- 
lished, as  to  convince  us,  that  no  alteration  was  to  be  expected,  to 
conform  it  to  our  ideas  of  expediency  and  safety.  A  persuasion, 
that  our  further  attendance  would  be  fruitless  and  unavailing,  ren- 
dered us  less  solicitious  to  return. 

We  have  thus  explained  our  motives  for  opposing  the  adoption 
of  the  national  constitution,  which  we  conceived  it  our  duty  to  com- 
municate to  your  excellency,  to  be  submitted  to  the  consideration 
of  the  honorable  legislature. 

We  have  the  honor  to  be,  With  the  greatest  respect,  Your  excel- 
lency's Most  obedient,  and  Very  humble  servants, 

Robert  Yates, 
John  Lansing,  Jun. 

His  Excellency  Governor  Clinton. 


CLXVIII.    GiLEB  Strong  in  the  Massachusetts  Convention.^ 

January  15,  1788. 

The  Hon.  Mr.  Strong  rose  to  reply  to  the  inquiry  of  the  Hon. 
Mr.  Adams,  why  the  alteration  of  elections  from  annual  to  biennial 
was  made,  and  to  correct  an  inaccuracy  of  the  Hon.  Mr.  Gorham, 
who,  the  day  before,  had  said  that  that  alteration  was  made  to  gratify 
South  Carolina.  He  said  he  should  then  have  arisen  to  put  his 
worthy  colleague  right;  but  his  memory  was  not  sufficiently  reten- 
tive to  enable  him  immediately  to  collect  every  circumstance.  He 
had  since  recurred  to  the  original  plan.  When  the  subject  was  at 
first  discussed  in  convention,  some  gentlemen  were  for  having  the 
term  extended  to  a  considerable  length  of  time;  others  were  opposed 
to  it,  as  it  was  contrary  to  the  ideas  and  customs  of  the  Eastern 
States;  but  a  majority  were  in  favor  of  three  years,  and  it  was,  he 
said,  urged  by  the  Southern  States,  which  are  not  so  populous  as 
the  Eastern,  that  the  expense  of  more  frequent  elections  would  be 
great.  He  concluded  by  saying  that  a  general  concession  produced 
the  term  as  it  stood  in  the  section,  although  it  was  agreeable  to  the 
practice  of  South  Carolina.    [From  *' Debates  of  Convention"] 

Caleb  Strong.  Stated  the  grounds  proceeded  on  in  Federal 
Convention;  determined  at  first  to  be  triennial;  afterwards  reduced 
to  biennial;  South  Carolina  having  at  home  biennial  elections,  and 
it  was  a  compromise.     [From  ^'Parson's  Minutes"] 

^  Debates  and  Proceedings  in  Convention  of  Massachusetts  in  1788^  Edit,  of  1856, 
pp.  103-104,  287, 


248      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CLXIX.    Caleb  Strong  in  the  Massachusetts  Convention.^ 

January  16,  1788. 
The  Hon.  Mr.  Strong  .  .  .  Gentlemen  have  said,  the  proposed 
Constitution  was  in  some  places  ambiguous.  I  wish  they  would 
point  out  the  particular  instances  of  ambiguity;  for  my  part  I  think 
the  whole  of  it  is  expressed  in  the  plain,  common  language  of  mankind. 
If  any  parts  are  not  so  explicit  as  they  could  be,  it  cannot  be  attributed 
to  any  design;  for  I  believe  a  great  majority  of  the  men  who  formed 
it  were  sincere  and  honest  men.* 


CLXX.    Debate  in  the  South  Carolina  Legislature.' 

House  of  Representatives.     In  the  Legislature, 

Wednesday,  January  16,  1788. 

Hon.  Charles  Pinckney  one  of  the  delegates  of  the  Federal 
Convention)  rose  in  his  place,  and  said  that,  although  the  principles 
and  expediency  of  the  measures  proposed  by  the  late  Convention 
will  come  more  properly  into  discussion  before  another  body,  yet, 
as  their  appointment  originated  with  them,  and  the  legislatures 
must  be  the  instrument  of  submitting  the  plan  to  the  opinion  of  the 
people,  it  became  a  duty  in  their  delegates  to  state  with  conciseness 
the  motives  which  induced  it.    ... 

Under  these  momentous  impress  ons  the  Convention  met,  when 
the  first  question  that  naturally  presented  itself  to  the  view  of  almost 
every  member,  although,  it  was  never  formally  brought  forward, 
was  the  formation  of  a  new,  or  the  amendment  of  the  existing  sys- 
tem. Whatever  might  have  been  the  opinions  of  a  few  speculative 
men,  who  either  did,  or  pretended  to,  confide  more  in  the  virtue  of 
the  people  than  prudence  warranted,  Mr.  Pinckney  said  he  would 
venture  to  assert  that  the  states  were  unanimous  in  preferring  a 
change. 

...  It  was  sufficient  to  remark  that  the  Convention  saw  and 
'  felt  the  necessity  of  establishing  a  government  upon  different  prin- 
ciples, which,  instead  of  requiring  the  intervention  of  thirteen  differ- 
ent legislatures  between  the  demand  and  the  compliance,  should 
operate  upon  the  people  in  the  first  instance. 

He  repeated,  that  the  necessity  of  having  a  government  which 
should  at  once  operate  upon  the  people,  and  not  upon  the  states, 

^  DehaUs  and  Proceedings  in  Convention  of  Massachusetts  in  jy88.  Edit,  of  1856, 
p.  122. 

«  Sec  below  CCCIV,  CCCXIV. 

*  Elliot,  DehaUs  in  State  Conventions  on  adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution^  IV, 
253-267. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLXX  249 

was  conceived  to  be  indispensable  by  every  delegation  present;  that, 
however  they  may  have  differed  with  respect  to  the  quantum  of 
power,  no  objection  was  made  to  the  system  itself.  They  considered 
it,  however,  highly  necessary  that,  in  the  establishment  of  a  con- 
stitution possessing  extensive  national  authorities,  a  proper  dis- 
tribution of  its  powers  should  be  attended  to.  Sensible  of  the  danger 
of  a  single  body,  and  that  to  such  a  council  the  states  ought  not  to 
intrust  important  rights,  they  considered  it  their  duty  to  divide  the 
legislature  into  two  branches,  and,  by  a  limited  revisionary  power, 
to  mingle,  in  some  degree,  the  executive  in  their  proceedings  —  a 
provision  that  he  was  pleased  to  find  meets  with  universal  appro- 
bation. The  degree  of  weight  which  each  state  was  to  have  in  the 
federal  council  became  a  question  of  much  agitation.  The  larger 
states  contended  that  no  government  could  long  exist  whose  prin- 
ciples were  founded  in  injustice;  that  one  of  the  most  serious  and 
unanswerable  objections  to  the  present  system  was  the  injustice 
of  its  tendency  in  allowing  each  state  an  equal  vote,  notwithstanding 
their  striking  disparity.  The  small  ones  replied,  and  perhaps  with 
reason,  that,  as  the  states  were  the  pillars  upon  which  the  general 
government  must  ever  rest,  their  state  governments  must  remain; 
that,  however  they  may  vary  in  point  of  territory  or  population,  as 
political  associations  they  were  equal;  that  upon  these  terms  they 
formally  confederated,  and  that  no  inducement  whatsoever  should 
tempt  them  to  unite  upon  others;  that,  if  they  did,  it  would  amount 
to  nothing  less  than  throwing  the  whole  government  of  the  Union 
into  the  hands  of  three  or  four  of  the  largest  states. 

After  much  anxious  discussion,  —  for,  had  the  Convention 
separated  without  determining  upon  a  plan,  it  would  have  been  on 
this  point,  —  a  compromise  was  effected,  by  which  it  was  determined 
that  the  first  branch  be  so  chosen  as  to  represent  in  due  proportion 
the  people  of  the  Union;  that  the  Senate  should  be  the  representa- 
tives of  the  states,  where  each  should  have  an  equal  weight.  Though 
he  was  at  first  opposed  to  this  compromise,  yet  he  was  far  from  think- 
ing it  an  injudicious  one.  .  .  .  The  purpose  of  establishing  different 
houses  of  legislation  was  to  introduce  the  influence  of  different 
interests  and  principles.     .  .  . 

And  the  executive,  he  said,  though  not  constructed  upon  those 
firm  and  permanent  principles  which  he  confessed  would  have  been 
pleasing  to  him,  is  still  as  much  so  as  the  present  temper  and  genius 
of  the  people  will  admit.    .  .  . 

He  had  been  opposed  to  connecting  the  executive  and  the  Senate 
in  the  discharge  of  those  duties,  because  their  union,  in  his  opinion, 
destroyed   that   responsibility  which   the   Constitution   should,   in 


2$0  RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

this  respect,  have  been  careful  to  establish;   but  he  had  no  appre- 
hensions of  an  aristocracy. 

.  .  .  Though  at  first  he  considered  some  declaration  on  the 
subject  of  trial  by  jury  in  civil  causes,  and  the  freedom  of  the  press, 
necessary,  and  still  thinks  it  would  have  been  as  well  to  have  had 
it  inserted,  yet  he  fully  acquiesced  in  the  reasoning  which  was  used 
to  show  that  the  insertion  of  them  was  not  essential.     .  .  . 

On  the  subject  of  juries,  in  civil  cases,  the  Convention  were 
anxious  to  make  some  declaration;  but  when  they  reflected  that 
all  courts  of  admiralty  and  appeals,  being  governed  in  their  propriety 
by  the  civil  law  and  the  laws  of  nations,  never  had,  or  ought  to  have, 
juries,  they  found  it  impossible  to  make  any  precise  declaration 
upon  the  subject;  they  therefore  left  it  as  it  was,  trusting  that  the 
good  sense  of  their  constituents  would  never  induce  them  to  sup- 
pose that  it  could  be  the  interest  or  intention  of  the  general  govern- 
ment to  abuse  one  of  the  most  invaluable  privileges  a  free  country 
can  boast;  in  the  loss  of  which,  themselves,  their  fortunes  and  con- 
nections, must  be  so  materially  involved,  and  to  the  deprivation  of 
which,  except  in  the  cases  alluded  to,  the  people  of  this  country 
would  never  submit.     .  .  . 

Judge  Pendleton  read  a  paragraph  in  the  Constitution,  which 
says  ''the  Senate  shall  have  the  sole  power  of  impeachment."     .  .  . 

Maj.  Pierce  Butler  (one  of  the  delegates  of  the  Federal  Con- 
vention) was  one  of  a  committee  that  drew  up  this  clause,  and  would 
endeavor  to  recollect  those  reasons  by  which  they  were  guided.  It 
was  at  first  proposed  to  vest  the  sole  power  of  making  peace  or  war 
in  the  Senate;  but  this  was  objected  to  as  inimical  to  the  genius  of 
a  republic,  by  destroying  the  necessary  balance  they  were  anxious 
to  preserve.  Some  gentlemen  were  inclined  to  give  this  power  to 
the  President;  but  it  was  objected  to,  as  throwing  into  his  hands  the 
influence  of  a  monarch,  having  an  opportunity  of  involving  his  coun- 
try in  a  war  whenever  he  wished  to  promote  her  destruction  The 
House  of  Representatives  was  then  named;  but  an  insurmountable 
objection  was  made  to  this  proposition  —  which  was,  that  nego- 
tiations always  required  the  greatest  secrecy,  which  could  not  be 
expected  in  a  large  body.  The  honorable  gentleman  then  gave  a 
clear,  concise  opinion  on  the  propriety  of  the  proposed  Constitution. 

Gen.  Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney  (one  of  the  delegates  of  the 
Federal  Convention)  observed,  that  the  honorable  judge,  from  his 
great  penetration,  had  hit  upon  one  of  those  difiicult  points  which 
for  a  long  time  occasioned  much  debate  in  the  Convention.  Indeed, 
this  subject  appeared  to  be  of  so  much  magnitude,  that  a  committee 
consisting  of  one  member  from  each  state  was  appointed  to  CQn§i<j^r 


APPENDIX  A,    CLXX  25 1 

and  report  upon  it.  His  honorable  friend  (Major  Butler)  was  on 
the  committee  for  this  state.  Some  members  were  for  vesting  the 
power  for  making  treaties  in  the  legislature;  but  the  secrecy  and 
despatch  which  are  so  frequently  necessary  in  negotiations  evinced 
the  impropriety  of  vesting  it  there.  The  same  reason  showed  the 
impropriety  of  placing  it  solely  in  the  House  of  Representatives. 
A  few  members  were  desirous  that  the  President  alone  might  pos- 
sess this  power^  and  contended  that  it  might  safely  be  lodged  with 
him,  as  he  was  to  be  responsible  for  his  conduct,  and  therefore  would 
not  dare  to  make  a  treaty  repugnant  to  the  interest  of  his  country 
and  from  his  situation  he  was  more  interested  in  making  a  good 
treaty  than  any  other  man  in  the  United  States.  This  doctrine 
General  Pinckney  said  he  could  not  acquiesce  in.  Kings,  he  admitted, 
were  in  general  more  interested  in  th  welfare  of  their  country  than 
any  other  individual  in  it,  because  the  prosperity  of  the  country 
tended  to  increase  the  lustre  of  the  crown,  and  a  king  never  could 
receive  a  sufficient  compensation  for  the  sale  of  his  kingdoms;  for 
he  could  not  enjoy  in  any  other  country  so  advantageous  a  situa- 
tion as  he  permanently  possessed  in  his  own.  Hence  kings  are  less 
liable  to  foreign  bribery  and  corruption  than  any  other  set  of  men, 
because  no  bribe  that  could  be  given  them  could  compensate  the  loss 
they  must  necessarily  sustain  for  injuring  their  dominions;  indeed, 
he  did  not  at  present  recollect  any  instance  of  a  king  who  had  re- 
ceived a  bribe  from  a  foreign  power,  except  Charles  H.,  who  sold 
Dunkirk  to  Louis  XIV.  But  the  situation  of  a  President  would 
be  very  different  from  that  of  a  king:  he  might  withdraw  himself 
from  the  United  States,  so  that  the  states  could  receive  no  advantage 
from  his  responsibility;  his  office  is  not  to  be  permanent,  but  tem- 
porary; and  he  might  receive  a  bribe  which  would  enable  him  to 
live  in  greater  splendor  in  another  country  than  his  own;  and  when 
out  of  office,  he  was  no  more  interested  in  the  prosperity  of  his  coun- 
try than  any  other  patriotic  citizen:  and  in  framing  a  treaty,  he 
might  perhaps  show  an  improper  partiality  for  the  state  to  which 
he  particularly  belonged.  The  different  propositions  made  on  this 
subject,  the  general  observed,  occasioned  much  debate.  At  last  it 
was  agreed  to  give  the  President  a  power  of  proposing  treaties,  as 
he  was  the  ostensible  head  of  the  Union,  and  to  vest  the  Senate 
(where  each  state  had  an  equal  voice)  with  the  power  of  agreeing 
or  disagreeing  to  the  terms  proposed.  This,  in  some  measure,  took 
away  their  responsibility,  but  not  totally;  for,  though  the  Senate 
were  to  be  judges  on  impeachments,  and  the  members  of  it  would 
not  probably  condemn  a  measure  they  had  agreed  to  confirm,  yet, 
as  they  were  not  a  permanent  body,  they  might  be  tried  hereafter 


252     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

by  other  senators,  and  condemned,  if  they  deserved  it.  On  the 
whole,  a  large  majority  of  the  Convention  thought  this  power  would 
be  more  safely  lodged  where  they  had  finally  vested  it,  than  any 
where  else.  It  was  a  power  that  must  necessarily  be  lodged  some- 
where: political  caution  and  republican  jealousy  rendered  it  improper 
for  us  to  vest  it  in  the  President  alone;  the  nature  of  negotiation, 
and  the  frequent  recess  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  rendered 
that  body  an  improper  depository  of  this  prerogative.  The  Presi- 
dent and  Senate  joined  were,  therefore,  after  much  deliberation, 
deemed  the  most  eligible  corps  in  whom  we  could  with  safety  vest 
the  diplomatic  authority  of  the  Union. 

.  .  .  Gen.  Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney  rose  to  obviate  some  of 
the  objections  made  by  the  honorable  gentleman  who  sat  down,  .  .  • 
If  we  should  not  be  represented  in  the  Senate,  it  would  be  our  own 
fault;  the  mode  of  voting  in  that  body  per  capita^  and  not  by  states, 
as  formerly,  would  be  a  strong  inducement  to  us  to  keep  up  a  full 
representation:  the  alteration  was  approved  by  every  one  of  the 
Convention  who  had  been  a  member  of  Congress.  He  then  men- 
tioned several  instances  of  difficulties  which  he  had  been  informed 
had  occurred  in  Congress  in  determining  questions  of  vast  importance 
to  the  Union,  on  account  of  the  members  voting  as  states,  and  not 
individually.     .  .  .  

CLXXI.    C.  C.  Pinckney:   Speech  in  South  Carouna  House 

OF  Representatives.^ 

Thursday,  January,  1788. 

.  .  .  But  now  that  the  senators  vote  individually,  and  not  by 
states,  each  state  will  be  anxious  to  keep  a  full  representation  in 
the  Senate;  and  the  Senate  has  now  power  to  compel  the  attendance 
of  its  own  members.  We  shall  thus  have  no  delay,  and  business 
will  be  conducted  in  a  fuller  representation  of  the  states  than  it 
hitherto  has  been.  All  the  members  of  the  Convention,  who  had 
served  in  Congress,  were  so  sensible  of  the  advantage  attending  this 
mode  of  voting,  that  the  measure  was  adopted  unanimously.  For 
my  own  part,  I  think  it  infinitely  preferable  to  the  old  method.    .  .  . 

•  .  .  Every  state  in  the  Union,  except  Rhode  Island,  was  so 
thoroughly  convinced  that  our  government  was  inadequate  to  our 
situation,  that  all,  except  her,  sent  members  to  the  Convention  at 
Philadelphia.  General  Pinckney  said,  it  had  been  alleged  that, 
when  there,  they  exceeded  their  powers.  He  thought  not.  They 
had  a  right,  he  apprehended,  to  propose  any  thing  which  they  imag- 

^  Elliot,  DehaUs  in  StaU  CononUiofu  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution^ 
IV,  277-286. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLXXI  253 

ined  would  strengthen  the  Union,  and  be  for  the  advantage  of  our 
country;  but  they  did  not  pretend  to  a  right  to  determine  finally 
upon  any  thing.     .  .  • 

Every  member  who  attended  the  Convention,  was,  from  the 
beginning,  sensible  of  the  necessity  of  giving  greater  powers  to  the 
federal  government.  This  was  the  very  purpose  for  which  they  were 
convened.  The  delegations  of  Jersey  and  Delaware  were,  at  first, 
averse  to  this  organization;  but  they  afterwards  acquiesced  in  it; 
and  the  conduct  of  their  delegates  has  been  so  very  agreeable  to  the 
people  of  these  states^  that  their  repsective  conventions  have  unani- 
mously adopted  the  Constitution.  As  we  have  found  it  necessary 
to  give  very  extensive  powers  to  the  federal  government  both  over 
the  persons  and  estates  of  the  citizens,  we  thought  it  right  to  draw 
one  branch  of  the  legislature  immediately  from  the  people,  and  that 
both  wealth  and  numbers  should  be  considered  in  the  representation. 
We  were  at  a  loss,  for  some  time,  for  a  rule  to  ascertain  the  propor- 
tionate wealth  of  the  states.  At  last  we  thought  that  the  produc- 
tive labor  of  the  inhabitants  was  the  best  rule  for  ascertaining  their 
wealth.  In  conformity  to  this  rule,  joined  to  a  spirit  of  concession, 
we  determined  that  representatives  should  be  apportioned  among 
the  several  states,  by  adding  to  the  whole  number  of  free  persons 
three  fifths  of  the  slaves.  We  thus  obtained  a  representation  for 
our  property;  and  I  confess  I  did  not  expect  that  we  had  conceded 
too  much  to  the  Eastern  States,  when  they  allowed  us  a  represen- 
tation for  a  species  of  property  which  they  have  not  among  them. 

The  numbers  in  the  di£Ferent  states,  according  to  the  most  accu- 
rate accounts  we  could  obtain,  were  — 

In  New  Hampshire, 102,000 

Massachusetts,   360,000 

Rhode  Island,   58,000 

Connecticut, 202,000 

New  York, 233,000 

New  Jersey, 138,000 

Pennsylvania 360,000 

Delaware,    37fOOO 

Maryland,  (including  three  fifths  of  80,000  negroes,)    218,000 

Virginia,  (including  three-fifths  of  280,000  negroes,)    420,000 

N.  Carolina,  (including  three-fifths  of  60,000  negroes,)    200,000 

S.  Carolina,  (including  three-fifths  of  80,000  negroes,)    150,000 

Georgia,  (including  three-fifths  of  20,000  negroes,)    90,000 

.  .  .  The  general  then  said  he  would  make  a  few  observations 
on  the  objections  which  the  gentleman  had  thrown  out  on  the  re- 
strictions that  might  be  laid  on  the  African  trade  after  the  year  1808. 
On  this  point  your  delegates  had  to  contend  with  the  religious  and 


254     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

political  prejudices  of  the  Eastern  and  Middle  States,  and  with  the 
interested  and  inconsistent  opinion  of  Virginia,  who  was  warmly 
opposed  to  our  importing  more  slaves.  I  am  of  the  same  opinion 
now  as  I  was  two  years  ago,  when  I  used  the  expressions  the  gentle- 
man has  quoted  —  that,  while  there  remained  one  acre  of  swamp- 
land uncleared  of  South  Carolina,  I  would  raise  my  voice  against 
restricting  the  importation  of  negroes.  I  am  as  thoroughly  con- 
vinced as  that  gentleman  is,  that  the  nature  of  our  climate,  and  the 
flat,  swampy  situation  of  our  country,  obliges  us  to  cultivate  our 
lands  with  negroes,  and  that  without  them  South  Carolina  would 
soon  be  a  desert  waste. 

You  have  so  frequently  heard  my  sentiments  on  this  subject, 
that  I  need  not  now  repeat  them.  It  was  alleged,  by  some  of  the 
members  who  opposed  an  unlimited  importation,  that  slaves  in- 
creased the  weakness  of  any  state  who  admitted  them;  that  they 
were  a  dangerous  species  of  property,  which  an  invading  enemy 
could  easily  turn  against  ourselves  and  the  neighboring  states;  and 
that,  as  we  were  allowed  a  representation  for  them  in  the  House  of 
Representatives,  our  influence  in  government  would  be  increased 
in  proportion  as  we  were  less  able  to  defend  ourselves.  ''Show 
some  period,"  said  the  members  from  the  Eastern  States,  "when  it 
may  be  in  our  power  to  put  a  stop,  if  we  please,  to  the  importation 
of  this  weakness,  and  we  will  endeavor,  for  your  convenience,  to 
restrain  the  religious  and  political  prejudices  of  our  people  on  this 
subject."  The  Middle  States  and  Virginia  made  us  no  such  propo- 
sition; they  were  for  an  immediate  and  total  prohibition.  We 
endeavored  to  obviate  the  objections  that  were  made  in  the  best 
manner  we  could,  and  assigned  reasons  for  our  insisting  on  the  impor- 
tation, which  there  is  no  occasion  to  repeat,  as  they  must  occur  to 
every  gentleman  in  the  house:  a  committee  of  the  states  was  ap- 
pointed in  order  to  accommodate  this  matter,  and,  after  a  great  deal 
of  difliculty,  it  was  settled  on  the  footing  recited  in  the  Constitution. 

By  this  settlement  we  have  secured  an  unlimited  importation 
of  negroes  for  twenty  years.  Nor  is  it  declared  that  the  importa- 
tion shall  be  then  stopped;  it  may  be  continued.  We  have  a  secur- 
ity that  the  general  government  can  never  emancipate  them,  for 
no  such  authority  is  granted;  and  it  is  admitted,  on  all  hands,  that 
the  general  government  has  no  powers  but  what  are  expressly  granted 
by  the  Constitution,  and  that  all  rights  not  expressed  were  reserved 
by  the  several  states.  We  have  obtained  a  right  to  recover  our  slaves 
in  whatever  part  of  America  they  may  take  refuge,  which  is  a  right 
we  had  not  before.  In  short,  considering  all  circumstances,  we  have 
made  the  best  terms  for  the  security  of  this  species  of  property  it 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXXII  255 

was  in  our  power  to  make.    We  would  have  made  better  if  we  could; 
but,  on  the  whole,  I  do  not  think  them  bad. 


CLXXII.    RuFus  King  in  the  Massachusetts  Convention.^ 

January  17,  1788. 

Mr.  King  said  that  gentlemen  had  made  it  a  question,  why  a 
qualification  of  property  in  a  representative  is  omitted.  .  .  .  Such 
a  qualification  was  proposed  in  Convention,  but  by  the  delegates 
of  Massachusetts,  it  was  contested  that  it  should  not  obtain.    .  .  . 

The  third  paragraph  of  the  second  section  being  read, 

Mr.  King  rose  to  explain  it.  There  has,  says  he,  been  much 
misconception  on  this  section.  It  is  a  principle  of  this  Constitu- 
tion, that  representation  and  taxation  should  go  hand  in  hand. 
This  paragraph  states  that  the  number  of  free  persons  shall  be  deter- 
mined, by  adding  to  the  whole  number  of  free  persons,  including 
those  bound  to  service  for  a  term  of  years,  and  excluding  Indians 
not  taxed,  three-fifths  of  all  other  persons.  These  persons  are  the 
slaves.  By  this  rule  is  representation  and  taxation  to  be  appor- 
tioned. And  it  was  adopted,  because  it  was  the  language  of  all 
America.  According  to  the  Confederation,  ratified  in  1781,  the 
sums  for  the  general  welfare  and  defence  should  be  apportioned 
according  to  the  surveyed  lands,  and  improvements  thereon,  in  the 
several  States.  But  it  hath  never  been  in  the  power  of  Congress  to 
follow  that  rule;  the  returns  from  the  several  States  being  so  very 
imperfect.     [From  "Debates  of  Convention."] 

Hon.  Mr.  King.  The  principle  on  which  this  paragraph  is 
founded  is,  that  taxation  and  representation  should  go  hand  in 
hand.  By  the  Confederation,  the  apportionment  is  upon  surveyed 
land,  the  buildings  and  improvements.  The  rule  could  never  be 
assessed.  A  new  rule  has  been  proposed  by  Congress,  similar  to  the 
present  rule,  which  has  been  adopted  by  eleven  States  —  all  but  New 
Hampshire  and  Rhode  Island.     [From  "Parsons's  Minutes."] 


CLXXIII.    C.  C.  Pinckney:   Speech  in  South  Carolina  House 

OF  Representatives.* 

Friday,  January  18,  1788. 
.  .  .  He  said,  that  the  time  for  which  the  President  should  hold 
his  office,  and  whether  he  should  be  reeligible,  had  been  fully  dis- 

*  Debates  and  Proceedings  in  Convention  of  Massachusetts  in  1788.     Edit.  1856, 

pp.  133-134,  299. 

*  Elliot,  Debates  in  State  Conpentions  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constiiuiion^ 
TV,  315-316. 


256     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

cussed  in  the  Q>nvention.  It  had  been  once  agreed  to  by  a  majority, 
that  he  should  hold  his  ofRce  for  the  term  of  seven  years,  but  should 
not  be  reelected  a  second  time.  But  upon  reconsidering  that  article, 
it  was  thought  that  to  cut  off  all  hopes  from  a  man  of  serving  again 
in  that  elevated  station,  might  render  him  dangerous,  or  perhaps 
indifferent  to  the  faithful  discharge  of  his  duty.  His  term  of  ser- 
vice might  expire  during  the  raging  of  war,  when  he  might,  perhaps, 
be  the  most  capable  man  in  America  to  conduct  it;  and  would  it  be 
wise  and  prudent  to  declare  in  our  Constitution  that  such  a  man 
should  not  again  direct  our  military  operations,  though  our  success 
might  be  owing  to  his  abilities?  The  mode  of  electing  the  President 
rendered  undue  influence  almost  impossible;  and  it  would  have 
been  imprudent  in  us  to  have  put  it  out  of  our  power  to  reelect  a 
man  whose  talents,  abilities,  and  integrity,  were  such  as  to  render 
him  the  object  of  the  general  choice  of  his  country.  I^ith  regard  to 
the  liberty  of  the  press,  the  discussion  of  that  matter  was  not 
forgotten  by  the  members  of  the  Convention.  It  was  fully  debated, 
and  the  impropriety  of  saying  any  thing  about  it  in  the  Constitu- 
tion clearly  evinced.  The  general  government  has  no  powers  but 
what  are  expressly  granted  to  it;  it  therefore  has  no  power  to  take 
away  the  liberty  of  the  press.  That  invaluable  blessing,  which  de- 
serves all  the  encomiums  the  gentleman  has  justly  bestowed  upon 
it,  is  secured  by  all  our  state  constitutions;  and  to  have  mentioned 
it  in  our  general  Constitution  would  perhaps  furnish  an  argument, 
hereafter,  that  the  general  government  had  a  right  to  exercise  powers 
not  expressly  delegated  to  it.  For  the  same  reason,  we  had  no  bill 
of  rights  inserted  in  our  Constitution;  for,  as  we  might  perhaps  have 
omitted  the  enumeration  of  some  of  our  rights,  it  might  hereafter 
be  said  we  had  delegated  to  the  general  government  a  power  to 
take  away  such  of  our  rights  as  we  had  not  enumerated;  but  by 
delegating  express  powers,  we  certainly  reserve  to  oursdves  every 
power  and  right  not  mentioned  in  the  ConstitutioqJ  Another 
reason  weighed  particularly,  with  the  members  from  this  state, 
against  the  insertion  of  a  bill  of  rights.  Such  bills  generally  begin 
with  declaring  that  all  men  are  by  nature  born  free.  Now,  we 
should  make  that  declaration  with  a  very  bad  grace,  when  a  large 
part  of  our  property  consists  in  men  who  are  actually  bom  slaves. 
As  to  the  clause  guarantying  to  each  state  a  republican  form  of 
government  being  inserted  near  the  end  of  the  Constitution,  the 
general  observed  that  it  was  as  binding  as  if  it  had  been  inserted 
in  the  first  article.  The  Constitution  takes  its  effect  from  the  rati- 
fication, and  every  part  of  it  is  to  be  ratified  at  the  same  time,  and 
not  one  clause  before  the  other;  but  he  thought  there  was  a  peculiar 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXXIV  257 

propriety  in  inserting  it  where  it  was,  as  it  was  necessary  to  form 
the  government  before  that  government  could  guaranty  any  thing. 


CLXXIV.   The  Federalist,  No.  XL.  [Madison.]^ 

In  one  particular,  it  is  admitted,  that  the  convention  have  de- 
parted from  the  tenor  of  their  commission.  Instead  of  reporting  a 
plan  requiring  the  confirmation  of  all  the  states^  they  have  reported 
a  plan,  which  is  to  be  confirmed,  and  may  be  carried  into  efiPect,  by 
nine  states  only.  It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  this  objection,  though 
the  most  plausible,  has  been  the  least  urged  in  the  publications 
which  have  swarmed  against  the  convention.  The  forbearance  can 
only  have  proceeded  from  an  irresistible  conviction  of  the  absurdity 
of  subjecting  the  fate  of  twelve  states  to  the  perverseness  or  corrup- 
tion of  a  thirteenth;  from  the  example  of  inflexible  opposition  given 
by  a  majority  of  one  sixtieth  of  the  people  of  America,  to  a  measure 
approved  and  called  for  by  the  voice  of  twelve  states,  comprising 
fifty-nine  sixtieths  of  the  people;  an  example  still  fresh  in  the  memory 
and  indignation  of  every  citizen  who  has  felt  for  the  wounded  honour 
and  prosperity  of  his  country.  As  this  objection,  therefore,  has  been 
in  a  manner  waved  by  those  who  have  criticised  the  powers  of  the 
convention,  I  dismiss  it  without  further  observation. 

The  third  /point  to  be  inquired  into  is,  how  far  considerations 
of  duty  arising  out  of  the  case  itself,  could  have  supplied  any  defect 
of  regular  authority. 

In  the  preceding  inquiries,  the  powers  of  the  convention  have 
been  analyzed  and  tried  with  the  same  rigour,  and  by  the  same  rules, 
as  if  they  had  been  real  and  final  powers,  for  the  establishment  of  a 
constitution  for  the  United  States.  We  have  seen,  in  what  manner 
they  have  borne  the  trial,  even  on  that  supposition.  It  is  time  now 
to  recollect,  that  the  powers  were  merely  advisory  and  recommenda- 
tory; that  they  were  so  meant  by  the  states,  and  so  understood  by 
the  convention;  and  that  the  latter  have  accordingly  planned  and 
proposed  a  constitution,  which  is  to  be  of  no  more  consequence  than 
the  paper  on  which  it  is  written,  unless  it  be  stamped  with  the  appro- 
bation of  those  to  whom  it  is  addressed.  This  reflection  places  the 
subject  in  a  point  of  view  altogether  different,  and  will  enable  us 
to  judge  with  propriety  of  the  course  taken  by  the  convention. 

Let  us  view  the  ground  on  which  the  convention  stood.  It  may 
be  collected  from  their  proceedings,  that  they  were  deeply  and  unani- 
mously impressed  with  the  crisis,  which  had  led  their  country, 
almost  with  one  voice,  to  make  so  singular  and  solemn  an  experi- 


^  Hallowell's  edition,  1837;  first  printed  in  the  New  York  Packet^  January  18, 1788. 


258     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

ment,  for  correcting  the  errors  of  a  system^  by  which  this  crisis  had 
been  produced;  that  they  were  no  less  deeply  and  unanimously  con- 
vinced, that  such  a  reform  as  they  have  proposed,  was  absolutely 
necessary  to  efiFect  the  purposes  of  their  appointment.  It  could  not 
be  unknown  to  them,  that  the  hopes  and  expectations  of  the  great 
body  of  citizens,  throughout  this  great  empire,  were  turned  with 
the  keenest  anxiety,  to  the  event  of  their  deliberations.  They  had 
every  reason  to  believe,  that  the  contrary  sentiments  agitated  the 
minds  and  bosoms  of  every  external  and  internal  foe  to  the  liberty 
and  prosperity  of  the  United  States.  They  had  seen  in  the  origin 
and  progress  of  the  experiment,  the  alacrity  with  which  the  propo^ 
sttiony  made  by  a  single  state  (Virginia)  towards  a  partial  amend- 
ment of  the  confederation  had  been  attended  to  and  promoted. 
They  had  seen  the  liberty  assumed  by  very  few  deputies,  from  a  very 
few  states,  convened  at  Annapolis,  of  recommending  a  great  and 
critical  object,  wholly  foreign  to  their  commission,  not  only  justified 
by  the  public  opinion,  but  actually  carried  into  eflFect,  by  twelve 
out  of  the  thirteen  states.  They  had  seen,  in  a  variety  of  instances, 
assumptions  by  congress,  not  only  of  recommendatory  but  of  opera- 
tive powers,  warranted  in  the  public  estimation,  by  occasions  and 
objects  infinitely  less  urgent  than  those  by  which  their  conduct  was 
to  be  governed.  They  must  have  reflected,  that  in  all  great  changes 
of  established  governments,  forms  ought  to  give  way  to  substance; 
that  a  rigid  adherence  in  such  cases  to  the  former,  would  render 
nominal  and  nugatory  the  transcendent  and  precious  right  of  the 
people  to  *' abolish  or  alter  their  governments  as  to  them  shall  seem 
most  likely  to  afiPect  their  safety  and  happiness;"*  since  it  is  impos- 
sible for  the  people  spontaneously  and  universally,  to  move  in  con- 
cert towards  their  object:  and  it  is  therefore  essential,  that  such 
changes  be  instituted  by  some  informal  and  unauthorized  propositions j 
made  by  some  patriotic  and  respectable  citizen,  or  number  of  citi- 
zens. They  must  have  recollected,  that  it  was  by  this  irregular 
and  assumed  privilege,  of  proposing  to  the  people  plans  for  their 
safety  and  happiness,  that  the  states  were  first  united  against  the 
danger  with  which  they  were  threatened  by  their  ancient  government; 
that  committees  and  congresses  were  formed  for  concentrating  their 
efforts,  and  defending  their  rights;  and  that  conventions  were  elected 
in  the  several  states^  for  establishing  the  constitutions  under  which 
they  are  now  governed.  Nor  could  it  have  been  forgotten,  that  no 
little  ill-timed  scruples,  no  zeal  for  adhering  to  ordinary  forms,  were 
anywhere  seen,  except  in  those  who  wished  to  indulge,  under  these 
masks,  their  secret  enmity  to  the  substance  contended  for.    They 

*  Declaration  of  Independence. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXXV  259 

must  have  borne  in  mind,  that  as  the  plan  to  be  framed  and  proposed, 
was  to  be  submitted  to  the  people  themselves^  the  disapprobation  of 
this  supreme  authority  would  destroy  it  forever:  its  approbation 
blot  out  all  antecedent  errors  and  irregularities.  It  might  even  have 
occurred  to  them,  that  where  a  disposition  to  cavil  prevailed,  their 
neglect  to  execute  the  degree  of  power  vested  in  them,  and  still  more 
their  recommendation  of  any  measure  whatever  not  warranted  by 
their  commission,  would  not  less  excite  animadversion,  than  a  recom- 
mendation at  once  of  a  measure  fully  commensurate  to  the  national 
exigencies.  

CLXXV.    Luther  Martin's  Defense  of  Gerry.^ 

I  beg  leave,  through  the  channel  of  your  Paper,  to  declare  to 
the  Public  that  from  the  time  I  took  my  seat  in  convention,  which 
was  early  in  June,  until  the  fourth  day  of  September,  when  I  left 
Philadelphia,  I  am  satisfied  I  was  not  ten  minutes  absent  from  con- 
vention while  sitting  (excepting  only  five  days  in  the  beginning  of 
August,  immediately  after  the  committee  of  detail  had  reported, 
during  which  but  little  business  was  done.)  That  during  my  atten- 
dance I  never  heard  Mr.  Gerry  or  any  other  member  introduce  a 
proposition  for  the  redemption  of  continental  money  according  to 
its  nominal  or  any  other  value,  nor  did  I  ever  hear  that  such  a  propo- 
sition had  been  offered  to  consideration  or  had  been  thought  of.'  I 
was  intimate  with  Mr.  Gerry,  and  never  heard  him  express,  in  private 
conversation  or  otherwise,  a  wish  for  the  redemption  of  continental 
money,  or  assign  the  want  of  such  a  provision  as  a  defect.  Nor 
did  I  ever  hear  in  Convention,  or  anywhere  else,  such  a  motive  of 
conduct  attributed  to  Mr.  Gerry.  I  also  declare  to  the  Public  that 
a  considerable  time  before  I  left  the  convention  Mr.  Gerry's  oppo- 
sition to  the  System  was  warm  and  decided;  that  in  a  particular 
manner  he  strenuously  opposed  that  provision  by  which  the  power 
and  authority  over  the  militia  is  taken  away  from  the  States  and  given 
to  the  general  government;  that  in  the  debate  he  declared  if  that 
measure  was  adopted  it  would  be  the  most  convincing  proof  that 
the  destruction  of  the  State  governments  and  the  introduction  of 
a  king  was  designed,  and  that  no  declarations  to  the  contrary  ought 
to  be  credited,  since  it  was  giving  the  states  the  last  coup  de  grace 
by  taking  from  them  the  only  means  of  self  preservation.  The 
conduct  of  the  advocates  and  framers  of  this  system  towards  the 

^  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  the  Constitution,  341-343;  first  printed  in  the  Maryland 
Journal  of  January  18,  1788. 

*  See  ClNll  above.  Gerry's  reply  is  in  CLXII,  the  controveny  is  continued  in 
CLXXXIX-CXCII  and  CXCIX. 


26o     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

thirteen  States,  in  pretending  that  it  was  designed  for  their  advantage, 
and  gradually  obtaining  power  after  power  to  the  general  govern- 
ment, which  could  not  but  end  in  their  slavery,  he  compared  to  the 
conduct  of  a  number  of  jockeys  who  had  thirteen  young  colts  to 
break;  they  begin  with  the  appearance  of  kindness,  giving  them  a 
lock  of  hay,  or  a  handful  of  oats,  and  stroaking  them  while  they  eat, 
until  being  rendered  sufficiently  gentle  they  suffer  a  halter  to  be 
put  round  their  necks;  obtaining  a  further  degree  of  their  confidence, 
the  jockeys  slip  a  curb  bridle  on  their  heads  and  the  bit  into  their 
mouths,  after  which  the  saddle  follows  of  course,  and  well  booted 
and  spurred,  with  good  whips  in  their  hands,  they  mount  and 
ride  them  at  their  pleasure,  and  although  they  may  kick  and 
flounce  a  little  at  first,  nor  being  able  to  get  rid  of  their  riders,  they 
soon  become  as  tame  and  passive  as  their  masters  could  wish  them. 
In  the  course  of  public  debate  in  the  convention  Mr.  Gerry  applied 
to  the  system  of  government,  as  then  under  discussion,  the  words 
of  Pope  with  respect  to  vice,  "that  it  was  a  monster  of  such  horrid 
mien,  as  to  be  hated  need  but  to  be  seen."  And  some  time  before 
I  left  Philadelphia,  he  in  the  same  public  manner  declared  in  con- 
vention that  he  should  consider  himself  a  traitor  to  his  country  if 
he  did  not  oppose  the  system  there,  and  also  when  he  left  the  con- 
vention. These,  sir,  are  facts  which  I  do  not  fear  being  contra- 
dicted by  any  member  of  the  convention,  and  will,  I  apprehend, 
satisfactorily  shew  that  Mr.  Gerry's  opposition  proceeded  from  a 
conviction  in  his  own  mind  that  the  government,  if  adopted,  would 
terminate  in  the  destruction  of  the  States  and  in  the  introduction 
of  a  kingly  government.       

CLXXVI.    Caleb  Strong  in  the  Massachusetts  Convention.* 

January  i8,  1788. 
Mr.  Strong.  This  mode  of  census  is  not  new.  Our  General 
Court  have  considered  it,  and  the  General  Court  have  agreed.  The 
southern  States  have  their  inconveniences;  none  but  negroes  can 
work  there;  the  buildings  are  worth  nothing.  When  the  delegates 
were  apportioned,  forty-thousand  was  the  number.  Massachusetts 
had  eight,  and  a  fraction;  New  Hampshire  two,  and  a  large  fraction. 
New  Hampshire  was  allowed  three;  Georgia  three,  &c.  Represen- 
tation is  large  enough,  because  no  private  local  interests  are  con- 
cerned. Very  soon,  as  the  country  increases,  it  will  be  larger.  He 
considered  the  increasing  expense. 

^  Debates  and  Proceedings  in  Convention  of  Massachusetts  in  lySS.    Edit.  1856^ 
p.  303. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXXVII  26 1 

CLXXVII.   Proceedings  in  the  Massachusetts  Convention.^ 

January  19,  1788. 

The  Hon.  E.  Gerry,  Esq.,  answered  the  question  proposed  to 
him  yesterday,  as  follows,  viz:  — 

Saturday  Morning,  19th  January. 

SIR:  —  I  have  no  documents  in  Boston,  and  am  uncertain 
whether  I  have  any  at  home,  to  assist  me  in  answering  the  question, 
"Why,  in  the  las  requisition  of  Congress,  the  portion  required  of 
this  State  was  thirteen  times  as  much  as  of  Georgia,  and  yet  we  have 
but  eight  representatives  in  the  general  government,  and  Georgia 
has  three?"  but  if  my  memory  serves  me,  the  reason  assigned  by 
the  committee  who  made  the  apportionment  for  giving  such  a  num- 
ber to  Georgia,  was,  that  that  State  had  of  late  greatly  increased  its 
numbers  by  migration,  and  if  not  then,  would  soon  be  entitled  to 
the  proportion  assigned  her.  I  think  it  was  also  said,  that  the  appor- 
tionment was  made,  not  by  any  fixed  principle,  but  by  a  compromise. 
These  reasons  not  being  satisfactory,  a  motion  was  made  on  the 
part  of  Massachusetts,  for  increasing  her  number  of  representatives, 
but  it  did  not  take  effect.    [From  "Journal  of  Convention."] 

Hon.  Mr.  King.  It  so  happened  that  I  was  both  of  the  Con- 
vention and  Congress  at  the  same  time,  and  if  I  recollect  right,  the 
answer  of  Mr.  Gerry  does  not  materially  vary.     .  .  . 

The  Hon.  Mr.  Strong  mentioned  the  difficulty  which  attended 
the  construction  of  the  Senate  in  the  Convention;  and  that  a  com- 
mittee, consisting  of  one  delegate  from  each  State,  was  chosen  to 
consider  the  subject,  who  reported  as  it  now  stands;  and  that  Mr. 
Gerry  was  on  the  committee,  from  Massachusetts.  [From  "Debates 
of  Convention."] 

Mr.  Gerry's  answer,  in  writing,  produced  and  filed  —  respecting 
Georgia  having  three  representatives. 

Mr.  King  will  give  the  answer,  which  he  does  at  large.  The 
estimate  by  which  the  requisitions  are  made,  was  made  in  1782; 
no  alteration  since.  Georgia  has  great  additions  and  emigration, 
and  is  now  in  an  Indian  war.  Connecticut  and  New  Hampshire 
have  paid  nothing.  If  I  was  for  it  now,  it  is  improper,  till  we  are 
more  united.     .  .  . 

Hon.  Mr.  Strong.  There  were  large  debates  on  this  subject  in 
the  Convention.    The  Convention  would  have  broke  up  if  it  had 

^  Debates  and  Proceedings  in  Contfention  of  Massachusetts  in  1788.  Edit.  1856, 
pp.  63,  144,  147,  306-307. 


262     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

not  been  agreed  to  allow  an  equal  representation  in  the  Senate.  It 
was  an  accommodation,  reported  by  a  Committee,  of  which  Mr. 
Gerry  was  one.    [From  "Parsons^s  Minutes."] 


J 


CLXXVIII.    King  and  Strong   in   the   Massachusetts   Con* 

VENTION.* 

January  19,  1788. 

Rufus  King  explained  and  enlarged  on  the  same  subject:  said 
that  no  certain  rule  ever  had  been  in  the  power  of  Congress,  there- 
fore laid  their  taxes  as  they  found  the  States  able;  the  judgment 
founded  on  conjecture;  and  the  money  paid  considered  as  so  much 
loaned  on  credit  by  each  State,  and  to  be  settled  hereafter.  The 
case  of  Georgia  was,  before  the  war,  small;  much  harrassed  by  it; 
since  rapidly  increasing;  the  number  of  representatives  no  more 
than  what  they  had,  or  would  have,  a  right  to,  considering  their 
increasing  population.     .  .  . 

Strong.  —  A  detail  of  proceedings  in  Convention  about  Senate; 
that  Gerry  was  of  the  Committee  about  proportioning  the  Senate; 
that  the  Committee  was  appointed  because  the  small  States  were 
jealous  of  the  large  ones;  and  the  Convention  was  nigh  breaking 
up  but  for  this.  

CLXXIX.    Belknap  to  Hazard.^ 

Boston,  Jan.  20.  1788. 
On  Friday  P.  M.,  an  honest  member,  who,  I  believe,  is  a  Federal- 
ist, and  I  believe  you  know  him.  Major  Fuller,  of  Newton,  desired 
to  know  why  Georgia  had  3  representatives  allowed  in  the  new  plan, 
and  Massachusetts  8,  when,  in  the  last  requisition  for  taxes,  they 
were  assessed  but  one  thirteenth  of  what  Massachusetts  was.  One 
of  the  Anti-feds,  desired  that  Mr.  G.  might  answer  this  question. 
It  was  put  to  vote,  and  passed  in  the  affirmative.  Mr.  G.  himself 
then  asked  the  President  to  reduce  the  question  to  writing,  which 
he  did,  and  gave  it  to  him.  ...  A  vote  passed,  desiring  him  to  take 
his  own  time,  and  give  his  answer  in  writing.  He  delivered  it  yes- 
terday A.M.  It  was  to  this  purpose:  That  the  mode  of  apportion- 
ing taxes  in  Congress  was  by  a  kind  of  compromise,  and  that  Georgia 
had  lately  been  increased  by  migration.  R.  K.  then  explained  the 
matter  at  large,  and  much  more  to  everybody's  satisfaction. 

^Belknap's  Notes,  printed  in  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  Proceidings, 
1855-1858,  pp.  297-^98. 

*  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  Collections^  Fifth  Series,  HI,  7-8. 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXXX  263 

CLXXX.   Benjamin  Lincoln  to  George  Washington.^ 

Boston,  Jany  20,  1788 
Having  been  detained  from  convention  for  a  number  of  day  I 
requested  one  of  my  friends  to  give  me  a  general  state  of  matters 
which  statement  I  do  myself  the  pleasure  to  inclose  .  •  , 

[Enclosure] 

.  .  •  when  a  question,  for  the  first  time,  was  proposed  to  Mr 
Gerry  viz  Why  Georgia  was  entitled  to  three  reps,  under  this  Con- 
stitution, and  Massts  but  to  eight,  when  in  former  requisitions  on 
Massts,  she  had  been  required  to  pay  thirteen  times  the  amount 
Georgia  was  assess'd  —  a  motion  was  made  by  Mr  Dana,  at  the 
request  of  Mr  G —  as  he  declared  in  Convention,  &  Mr  Gerry 
acceded  to,  that  the  question  should  be  reduced  to  writing,  8c  the 
answer  in  writing  be  laid  on  the  table  —  this  was  complied  with  on 
Saturday  morning  —  a  debate  then  ensued  on  the  first  paragraph 
in  the  3d  section  —  and  an  objection  was  raised  against  the  equality 
of  the  representation  of  the  states  in  the  senate  —  Mr  Strong  stated 
that  this  was  a  matter  of  long  debate  in  the  fed-convention  —  & 
that  a  committee  consisting  of  a  member  from  each  state  in  the  Con- 
vention was  appointed  to  consider  the  subject  —  that,  in  regard  to 
an  equality  of  representation  of  states  in  the  senate  the  committee 
agreed*  &  so  reported  to  Convention — 


CLXXXI.    Elbridge  Gerry  to  the  Vice   President   of    the 

Convention  of  Massachusetts.* 

Cambridge,  21st  January,  1788. 

After  having,  on  Saturday  morning,  stated  an  answer  to  the 
question  proposed  the  preceding  evening,  I  perceived  that  your 
honourable  body  were  considering  a  paragraph  which  respected  an 
equal  representation  of  the  States  in  the  Senate,  and  one  of  my 
honorable  colleagues  observed,  that  this  was  agreed  to  by  a  commit- 
tee consisting  of  a  member  from  each  State,  and  that  I  was  one  of 
the  number.  This  was  a  partial  narrative  of  facts,  which  I  conceived 
placed  my  conduct  in  an  unfavorable  point  of  light,  probably  with- 
out any  such  intention  on  the  part  of  my  colleague.      .  .  • 

I  shall  only  add.  Sir,  that  I  have  subjoined  a  state  of  facts, 

*  Documtniary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  451-453. 

*  Crossed  out  "unanimously". 

*  Debates  and  Proceedings  in  the  Convention  of  Massachusetts  in  i^SS,  pp.  65-71, 
note. 


264     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

founded  on  documents  relative  to  my  consent  that  the  lesser  States 
should  have  an  equal  representation  in  the  Senate.    •  •  • 

A  STATE  OF  FACTS,  REFERRED  TO  IN  THE  PRECEDING  LETTER. 

The  business  of  the  Federal  Convention  having  been  opened  by 
Governor  Randolph,  of  Virginia,  and  the  outlines  of  a  plan  of  govern- 
ment having  been  proposed  by  him>  they  were  referred  to  a  G>mmittee 
of  the  whole  house,  and  after  several  vreeks'  debate,  the  committee 
reported  general  principles  for  forming  a  Constitution,  amongst 
which  were  the  following:  — 

'7th.  That  the  right  of  suffrage  in  the  first  branch  of  the  Na- 
tional Legislature'  (by  which  was  intended  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives) '  ought  not  to  be  according  to  the  rule  established  in  the 
Articles  of  Confederation,  but  according  to  some  equitable  ratio 
of  representation,  viz.:  in  proportion  to  the  whole  number  of  white 
and  other  free  citizens  and  inhabitants,  of  every  age,  sex  and  con- 
dition, including  those  bound  to  servitude  for  a  term  of  years,  and 
three-fifths  of  all  other  persons  not  comprehended  in  the  foregoing 
description,  except  Indians,  not  paying  taxes,  in  each  State. 

*8th.  That  the  right  of  suffrage  in  the  second  branch  of  the 
National  Legislature'  (meaning  the  senate)  'ought  to  be  according 
to  the  rule  established  for  the  first.' 

In  the  Committee  of  the  Whole,  the  eighth  article  above  recited, 
for  which  I  voted,  was  carried,  if  my  memory  serves  me,  by  six 
States  against  five;  and  when  under  consideration  of  the  Conven- 
tion, it  produced  a  ferment,  and  a  separate  meeting,  as  I  was  informed, 
of  most  of  the  delegates  of  those  five  States,  the  result  of  which  was, 
a  firm  determination  on  their  part  not  to  relinquish  the  right  of 
equal  representation  in  the  Senate,  confirmed  as  it  was,  to  those 
States,  by  the  Articles  of  Confederation.  The  matter  at  length 
became  so  serious  as  to  threaten  a  dissolution  of  the  Convention, 
and  a  Committee,  consisting  of  a  member  from  each  State,  was 
appointed,  to  meet  (if  possible)  on  the  ground  of  accommodation. 
The  members  from  the  three  large  States  of  Virginia,  Pennsylvania 
and  Massachusetts,  were  Mr.  Mason,  Doctor  Franklin  and  myself, 
and  after  debating  the  subject  several  days,  during  which  time  the 
Convention  adjourned,  the  Committee  agreed  to  the  following 
Report:  — 

'That  the  subsequent  propositions  be  recommended  to  the 
Convention,  on  condition  that  both  shall  be  generally  adopted:  — 

*First,  That  in  the  first  branch  of  the  Legislature,  each  of  the 
States  now  in  the  Union  be  allowed  one  member  for  every  forty 
thousand  inhabitants,  of  the  description  reported  in  the  seventh 


APPENDIX  A,    CLXXXI  265 

resolution  of  the  Committee  of  the  whole  House  —  that  each  State 
not  containing  that  number  shall  be  allowed  one  member  —  that 
all  writs  for  raising  or  appropriating  money,  and  for  fixing  the  sal- 
aries of  the  officers  of  government  of  the  United  States,  shall  origin- 
ate in  the  first  branch  of  the  Legislature,  and  shall  not  be  altered  or 
amended  by  the  second  branch  —  and  that  no  money  shall  be  drawn 
from  the  treasury  of  the  United  States,  but  in  pursuance  of  appro- 
priations to  be  originated  by  the  first  branch. 

*  Secondly.  That  in  the  second  branch  of  the  Legislature  each 
State  shall  have  an  equal  vote.' 

The  number  of  forty  thousand  inhabitants  to  every  member 
in  the  House  of  Representatives,  was  not  a  subject  of  much  debate, 
or  an  object  insisted  on,  as  some  of  the  Committee  were  opposed  to 
it.  Accordingly,  on  the  loth  of  July,  a  motion  was  made  *to  double 
the  number  of  representatives,  being  sixty-five,'  and  it  passed  in 
the  negative. 

The  admission,  however,  of  the  smaller  States  to  an  equal  repre- 
sentation in  the  Senate,  never  would  have  been  agreed  to  by  the 
Committee,  or  by  myself,  as  a  member  of  it,  without  the  provision 
'that  air  bills  for  raising  or  appropriating  money,  and  for  fixing  the 
salaries  of  the  officers  of  government,'  should  originate  in  the  House 
of  Representatives,  and  *not  be  altered  or  amended'  by  the  Senate, 
'and  that  no  money  should  be  drawn  from  the  treasury'  'but  in 
pursuance  of  such  appropriations.' 

This  provision  was  agreed  to  by  the  Convention,  at  the  same 
time  and  by  the  same  vote,  as  that  which  allows  to  each  State  an 
equal  voice  in  the  Senate,  and  was  afterwards  referred  to  the  Com- 
mittee of  Detail,  and  reported  by  them  as  part  of  the  Constitution, 
as  will  appear  by  documents  in  my  possession.  Nevertheless,  the 
smaller  States  having  attained  their  object  of  an  equal  voice  in  the 
Senate,  a  new  provision,  now  in  the  Constitution,  was  substituted, 
whereby  the  Senate  have  a  right  to  propose  amendments  to  revenue 
bills,  and  the  provision  reported  by  the  Committee  was  effectually 
destroyed. 

It  was  conceived  by  the  Committee  to  be  highly  unreasonable 
and  unjust  that  a  small  State,  which  would  contribute  but  one 
sixty-fifth  part  of  any  tax,  should,  nevertheless,  have  an  equal  right 
with  a  large  State  which  would  contribute  eight  or  ten  sixty-fifths 
of  the  same  tax,  to  take  money  from  the  pockets  of  the  latter,  more 
especially  as  it  was  intended  that  the  powers  of  the  new  legislature 
should  extend  to  internal  taxation.  It  was  likewise  conceived,  that 
the  right  of  expending  should  be  in  proportion  to  the  ability  of  rais- 
ing money — that  the  larger  States  would  not  have  the  least  security 


266      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

for  their  property  if  they  had  not  the  due  command  of  their  own 
purses  —  that  they  would  not  have  such  command,  if  the  lesser 
States  in  either  branch  had  an  equal  right  with  the  larger  to  originate, 
or  even  to  alter,  money  bills  —  that  if  the  Senate  should  have  the 
power  of  proposing  amendments,  they  may  propose  that  a  bill, 
originated  by  the  House,  to  raise  one  thousand,  should  be  increased 
to  one  hundred  thousand  pounds  —  that  although  the  House  may 
negative  amendments  proposed  by  the  Senate,  yet  the  giving  them 
power  to  propose  amendments,  would  enable  them  to  increase  the 
grants  of  the  House,  because  the  Senate  (as  well  as  the  House) 
would  have  a  right  to  adhere  to  their  votes,  and  would  oblige  the 
House  to  consent  to  such  an  increase,  on  the  principle  of  accommo- 
dation—  that  the  lesser  States  would  thus  have  nearly  as  much 
command  of  the  property  of  the  greater,  as  they  themselves  —  that 
even  if  the  representation  in  the  Senate  had  been  according  to  num- 
bers, in  each  State,  money  bills  should  not  be  originated  or  altered 
by  that  branch,  because,  by  their  appointments,  the  members  would 
be  farther  removed  from  the  people,  would  have  a  greater  and  more 
independent  property  in  their  offices,  would  be  more  extravagant, 
and  not  being  so  easily  removed,  would  be  ever  in  favor  of  higher 
salaries  than  members  of  the  House  —  that  it  was  not  reasonable 
to  suppose  the  aristocratical  branch  would  be  as  saving  of  the  public 
money  as  the  democratical  branch:  —  but  that,  on  the  other  hand, 
should  the  Senate  have  only  the  power  of  concurrence  or  non-con* 
currence  of  such  bills,  they  would  pass  them,  although  the  grants 
should  not  equal  their  wishes,  whilst,  with  the  power  of  amendment, 
they  would  never  be  satisfied  with  the  grants  of  the  House  —  that 
the  Commons  of  Great  Britain  had  ever  strenuously  and  success- 
fully contended  for  this  important  right,  which  the  Lords  had  often, 
but  in  vain,  endeavored  to  exercise  —  that  the  preservation  of  this 
right,  the  right  of  holding  the  purse-strings,  was  essential  to  the 
preservation  of  liberty  —  and  that  to  this  right,  perhaps,  was  prin- 
cipally owing  the  liberty  that  still  remains  in  Great  Britain. 

These  are  the  facts  and  reasons  whereon  was  grounded  the 
admission  of  the  smaller  States  to  an  equal  representation  in  the 
Senate,  and  it  must  appear  that  there  is  an  essential  difference  between 
an  unqualified  admission  of  them  to  an  equal  representation  in  the 
Senate,  and  admitting  them  from  necessity,  on  the  express  condition 
provided  in  the  recited  report  of  the  Committee;  and  it  must  also 
appear,  that  had  that  provision  been  preserved  in  the  Constitution, 
and  the  Senate  precluded  from  a  right  to  alter  or  amend  money  or 
revenue  bills,  agreeably  to  the  said  report,  the  lesser  States  would 
not  have  that  undue  command  of  the  property  of  the  larger  States 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXXXII  267 

which  they  are  now  to  have  by  the  Constitution,  and  that  I  never 
consented  to  an  equal  representation  of  the  States  in  the  Senate, 
as  it  now  stands,  in  the  new  system. 


CLXXXII.   RuFus  King  in  the  Massachusetts  Convention.* 

January  21,  1788. 
Hon.  Mr.  King  rose  to  pursue  the  inquiry,  why  the  place  and 
manner  of  holding  elections  were  omitted  in  the  section  under  debate. 
It  was  to  be  observed,  he  said,  that  in  the  Constitution  of  Massa- 
chusetts, and  other  States,  the  manner  and  place  of  elections  were 
provided  for;  the  manner  was  by  ballot,  and  the  places  towns;  for, 
said  he,  we  happened  to  settle  originally  in  townships.  But  it  was 
different  in  the  southern  States.  He  would  mention  an  instance. 
In  Virginia  there  are  but  fifteen  or  twenty  towns,  and  seventy  or 
eighty  counties;  therefore  no  rule  could  be  adopted  to  apply  to  the 
whole.  If  it  was  practicable,  he  said,  it  would  be  necessary  to  have 
a  district  the  fixed  place.  But  this  is  liable  to  exceptions;  as  a  dis- 
trict that  may  now  be  fully  settled,  may  in  time  be  scarcely  inhabited; 
and  the  back  country,  now  scarcely  inhabited,  may  be  fully  settled. 
Suppose  this  State  thrown  into  eight  districts,  and  a  member  appor- 
tioned to  each:  if  the  numbers  increase,  the  representatives  and 
districts  will  be  increased.  The  matter,  therefore,  must  be  left 
subject  to  the  regulation  of  the  State  legislature,  or  the  general 
government.  Suppose  the  State  legislature,  the  circumstance  will 
be  the  same.  It  is  truly  said,  that  our  representatives  are  but  a 
part  of  the  Union,  and  that  they  may  be  subject  to  the  control  of 
the  rest;  but  our  representatives  make  a  ninth  part  of  the  whole, 
and  if  any  authority  is  vested  in  Congress  it  must  be  in  our  favor. 
But  to  the  subject:  in  Connect  cut  they  do  not  choose  by  numbers, 
but  by  corporations.  Hartford,  one  of  their  largest  towns,  sends 
no  more  delegates  than  one  of  their  smallest  corporations,  each 
town  sending  two,  except  latterly,  when  a  town  was  divided.  The 
same  rule  is  about  to  be  adopted  in  Rhode  Island.  The  inequality 
of  such  representation,  where  every  corporation  would  have  an  equal 
right  to  send  an  equal  number  of  representatives,  was  apparent. 
In  the  southern  States,  the  inequality  is  greater.  By  the  Constitu- 
tion of  South  Carolina,  the  city  of  Charleston  has  a  right  to  send 
thirty  representatives  to  the  General  Assembly,  the  whole  number 
of  which  amounts  to  two  hundred.  The  back  parts  of  Carolina 
have  increased  greatly  since  the  adoption  of  their  Constitution, 
and  have  frequently  attempted  an  alteration  of  this  unequal  mode 

^  Debates  and  Proceedings  in  Convention  of  Massachusetts  in  1788^  pp.  149-150. 


268      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  representation;  but  the  members  from  Charleston,  having  the 
balance  so  much  in  their  favor,  will  not  consent  to  an  alteration; 
and  we  see  that  the  delegates  from  Carolina  in  Congress  have  always 
been  chosen  from  the  delegates  of  that  city.  The  representatives, 
therefore,  from  that  State,  will  not  be  chosen  by  the  people,  but  will 
be  the  representatives  of  a  faction  of  that  State.  If  the  general 
government  cannot  control  in  this  case,  how  are  the  people  secure? 


CLXXXIII.   RuFus  King  in  the  Massachusetts  Convention.* 

"Some  of  the  powers  of  the  Legis.  are  ambiguous  and  others 
indefinite  and  dangerous.'*  This  clause  contains  an  imputation  so 
very  general  that  no  reply  in  detail  can  be  attempted  without  com- 
menting on  every  sentence  wh.  forms  the  Grant  of  powers  to  Con- 
gress. Most  of  the  sentences  are  transcribed  from  the  present 
Confederation,  and  we  can  only  observe  that  it  was  the  intention 
and  honest  desire  of  the  Convention  to  use  those  expressions  that 
were  most  easy  to  be  understood  and  least  equivocal  in  their  mean- 
ing; and  we  flatter  ourselves  they  have  not  been  entirely  disappointed. 
We  believe  that  the  powers  are  closely  defined,  the  expressions  as 
free  from  ambiguity  as  the  Convention  could  form  them,  and  we 
never  could  have  assented  to  the  Report,  had  we  supposed  the 
Danger  Mr.  G.  predicts.         

CLXXXIV.   RuFus  King  in  the  Massachusetts  Convention.* 

Monday,  28th.  —  Mr.  King,  in  speaking  on  the  Inspection  Laws 
(Sect.  10,  1st  Article),  said  this  was  introduced  on  account  of  the 
State  of  Virginia,  where  it  is  the  custom  to  lodge  the  tobacco  in 
public  warehouses  for  inspection  and  for  safety;  that  the  owner 
receives  a  certificate  from  the  inspecting  officer  of  the  quantity  of 
tobacco  lodged  there;  that  the  State  insures  it,  while  there  remain- 
ing, from  fire  and  other  accidents;  that  these  certificates  pass  from 
one  to  another  as  bank-bills,  and  that  the  tobacco  is  delivered  to  the 
person  who  demands  it,  on  presenting  the  certificate;  that,  on  recei- 
ving it,  he  pays  the  charge  of  inspection  and  storage,  and  a  premium 
of  insurance,  which  goes  into  the  public  treasury,  and  amounts  to  a 
duty  on  exportation.     .  .  . 

*  MS.  note  in  King's  handwriting  found  among  the  King  papers;  printed  in  C.  R. 
King,  Liff  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King,  I,  305-306.  This  MS.  is  undated, 
and  if  it  embodies  notes  of  a  speech  in  the  Massachusetts  Convention,  that  speech 
probably  was  made  on  January  24.  But  the  various  points  that  are  taken  up  are  those 
made  by  Gerry  in  his  "Objections"  to  the  Constitution.    See  CXXXIII  above. 

*  Belknap's  Notes  in  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  Proceedings,  1855-1858, 
p.  301. 


APPENDIX  A,    CLXXXV  269 

Mr.  King  stated  the  reasons  for  not  appointing  a  Council,  which 
were  that  the  small  States  would  insist  on  having  one,  at  least;  and 
that  would  make  another  body  similar  to  the  Senate.  Therefore 
it  was  thought,  if  in  some  cases  the  Senate  might  answer,  and  in 
others  the  President  might  require  the  opinion  of  the  officers  of 
State,  that,  in  this  case,  secrecy,  despatch,  and  fidelity  were  more 
to  be  expected  than  where  there  is  a  multitudinous  executive. 


CLXXXV.    Luther  Martin  to  T.  C.  Deye.* 

To  the  Hon.  Thomas  Cockey  Deye,  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Dele^ 

gates  of  Maryland. 
Sir, 

I  FLATTER  myself  the  subject  of  this  letter  will  be  a  sufficient 
apology  for  thus  publicly  addressing  it  to  you,  and  through  you  to 
the  other  members  of  the  house  of  delegates.  It  cannot  have  escaped 
your  or  their  recollection,  that  when  called  upon  as  the  servant  of 
a  free  state,  to  render  an  account  of  those  transactions  in  which  I 
had  had  a  share,  in  consequence  of  the  trust  reposed  in  me  by  that 
state,  among  other  things,  I  informed  them,  "that  some  time  in 
July,  the  honorable  Mr.  Yates  and  Mr.  Lansing  of  New-York,  left 
the  convention;  that  they  had  uniformly  opposed  the  system,  and 
that  I  believe,  despairing  of  getting  a  proper  one  brought  forward, 
or  of  rendering  any  real  service,  they  returned  no  more."  *  —  You 
cannot,  sir,  have  forgot,  for  the  incident  was  too  remarkable  not  to 
have  made  some  impression,  that  upon  my  giving  this  information, 
the  zeal  of  one  of  my  honorable  colleagues,  in  favor  of  a  system 
which  I  thought  it  my  duty  to  oppose,  impelled  him  to  interrupt  me, 
and  in  a  manner  which  I  am  confident  his  zeal  alone  prevented  him 
from  being  convinced  was  not  the  most  delicate,  to  insinuate  pretty 
strongly,  that  the  statement  which  I  had  given  of  the  conduct  of 
those  gentlemen,  and  their  motives  for  not  returning,  were  not  candid. 

Those  honorable  members  have  officially  given  information  on 
this  subject,  by  a  joint  letter  to  his  excellency  governor  Clinton  — 
it  is  published.'  Indulge  me,  sir,  in  giving  an  extract  from  it,  that 
it  may  stand  contrasted  in  the  same  page  with  the  information  I 
gave,  and  may  convict  me  of  the  want  of  candor  of  which  I  was 
charged,  if  the  charge  was  just  —  if  it  will  not  do  that,  then  let  it 
silence  my  accusers. 

"Thus  circumstanced,  under  these  impressions,  to  have  hesitated 

^  Yates,  Secfft  Proceedings  and  Debates  (Albany,  1821),  pp.  9-10;  first  printed  in 
the  Maryland  Gazette,  January  29,  1788. 

«  See  CLVIII  (27)  above.  « See  CLXVII  above. 


270     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

would  have  been  to  be  culpable;  —  we  therefore  gave  the  principles 
of  the  constitution,  which  has  received  the  sanction  of  a  majority  of 
the  convention,  our  decided  and  unreserved  dissent.  We  were  not 
present  at  the  completion  of  the  new  constitution;  but  before  we  left 
the  convention,  its  principles  were  so  well  established  as  to  convince 
us,  that  no  alteration  was  to  be  expected  to  conform  it  to  our  ideas 
of  expediency  and  safety.  A  persuasion  that  our  further  attendance 
would  be  fruitless  and  unavailing  rendered  us  less  solicitous  to  return.'' 

These,  sir,  are  their  words;  on  this  I  shall  make  no  comment;  I 
wish  not  to  wound  the  feelings  of  any  person,  I  only  wish  to  convince. 

I  have  the  honor  to  remain,  With  the  utmost  respect,  Your  very 

obedient  servant,  ,  i^>r 

^  Luther  Martin. 

Baltimore,  January  27,  1788. 


CLXXXVI.   George  Washington  to  La  Fayette.* 

Mount  Vernon  February  7th.  1788 
It  appears  to  me,  then,  little  short  of  a  miracle,  that  the  Dele- 
gates from  so  many  different  States  (which  States  you  know  are 
also  different  from  each  other  in  their  manners,  circumstances  and 
prejudices)  should  unite  in  forming  a  system  of  national  Govern- 
ment, so  little  liable  to  well  founded  objections. 

.  .  .  Had  I  but  slightly  suspected  (at  the  time  when  the  late 
G>nvention  was  in  session)  that  another  Convention  would  not  be 
likely  to  agree  upon  a  better  form  of  Government,  I  should  now  be 
confirmed  in  the  fixed  belief  that  they  would  not  be  able  to  agree  upon 
any  system  whatever.  

CLXXXVIL    Benjamin  Franklin  to  M.  Le  Veillard.' 

Philada  Feby  17th.  1788 
I  sent  you  with  my  last  a  Copy  of  the  new  Constitution  proposed 
for  the  United  States  by  the  late  General  Convention.    I  sent  one 
also  to  our  excellent  Friend  the  Duke  de  la  Rochefoucault. 

I  attended  the  Business  of  the  Convention  faithfully  for  four 
Months.     Enclos'd  you  have  the  last  speech  I  made  in  it. 


CLXXXVIIL   The  Federalist.  No.  LXIL  [Madison.]* 

2.  It  is  equally  unnecessary  to  dilate  on  the  appointment  of 
senators  by  the  state  legislatures.    Among  the  various  modes  which 

^  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  484-486. 

■  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  506. 

*  Hallowell's  edition,  1837;  from  the  Independent  Journal, 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXXXIX  27 1 

might  have  been  devised  for  constituting  this  branch  of  the  govern- 
ment, that  which  has  been  proposed  by  the  convention  is  probably 
the  most  congenial  with  the  public  opinion.  It  is  recommended  by 
the  double  advantage  of  favouring  a  select  appointment,  and  of 
giving  to  the  state  governments  such  an  agency  in  the  formation 
of  the  federal  government,  as  must  secure  the  authority  of  the  former, 
and  may  form  a  convenient  link  between  the  two  systems. 

3.  The  equality  of  representation  in  the  senate  is  another  point, 
which,  being  evidently  the  result  of  compromise  between  the  oppo- 
site pretensions  of  the  large  and  the  small  states,  does  not  call  for 
much  discussion.  

CLXXXIX.    The  Landholder  [Oliver  Ellsworth],  X.* 

To  the  Honourable  Luther  Martin,  Esq, 
Sir, 
I  have  just  met  with  your  performance  in  favour  of  the  Hon- 
ourable Mr.  Gerry,  published  in  the  Maryland  Journal  of  the  i8th 
January,  1788.*  As  the  Public  may  be  ignorant  of  the  Sacrifice 
you  have  made  of  your  resentments  on  this  occasion,  you  will  excuse 
me  for  communicating  what  your  extreme  modesty  must  have 
induced  you  to  conceal.  You,  no  doubt,  remember  that  you  and 
Mr.  Gerry  never  voted  alike  in  Convention,  except  in  the  instances 
I  shall  hereafter  enumerate.  He  uniformly  opposed  your  prin- 
ciples, and  so  far  did  you  carry  your  abhorrence  of  his  politics,  as 
to  inform  certain  members  to  be  on  their  guard  against  his  wiles, 
so  that,  he  and  Mr.  Mason  held  private  meetings,  where  plans  were 
concerted  ^'to  aggrandise,  at  the  ezpence  of  the  small  States,  Old 
Massachusetts  and  the  Ancient  Dominion."  After  having  thus 
opposed  him  and  accused  him,  to  appear  his  Champion  and  inti- 
mate acquaintance,  has  placed  you  beyond  the  reach  of  ordinary 
panegyric.  Having  done  this  justice  to  your  magnanimity,  I  can- 
not resist  drawing  the  veil  of  the  Convention  a  little  farther  aside; 
not,  I  assure  you,  with  any  intention  to  give  pain  to  your  Constitu- 
ents, but  merely  to  induce  them  to  pity  you  for  the  many  piercing 
mortifications  you  met  with  in  the  discharge  of  your  duty.  The 
day  you  took  your  seat  must  be  long  remembered  by  those  who  were 
present;  nor  will  it  be  possible  for  you  to  forget  the  astonishment 
your  behaviour  almost  instantaneously  produced.  You  had  scarcely 
time  to  read  the  propositions  which  had  been  agreed  to  after  the 

^  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  the  Constiiuiion,  pp.  182-188;  first  printed  in  the  Mary^ 
land  Journal^  February  39,  1788. 

'  For  the  origin  of  this  controversy  see  above,  CXVII,  CLXII,  and  CLXXV.  It 
is  continued  in  CXC-CXCII  and  CXCIX.  > 


272      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

fullest  investigation,  when,  without  requesting  information,  or  to 
be  let  into  the  reasons  of  the  adoption  of  what  you  might  not  approve, 
you  opened  against  them  in  a  speech  which  held  during  two  days, 
and  which  might  have  continued  two  months,  but  for  those  marks 
of  fatigue  and  disgust  you  saw  strongly  expressed  on  whichever 
side  of  the  house  you  turned  your  mortified  eyes.  There  needed  no 
other  display  to  fiz  your  character  and  the  rank  of  your  abilities, 
which  the  Convention  would  have  confirmed  by  the  most  distin- 
guished silence,  had  not  a  certain  similarity  in  genius  provoked  a 
sarcastic  reply  from  the  pleasant  Mr.  Gerry;  in  which  he  admired 
the  strength  of  your  lungs  and  your  profound  knowledge  in  the  first 
principles  of  government;  mixing  and  illustrating  his  little  remarks 
with  a  profusion  of  those  hems,  that  never  fail  to  lengthen  out  and 
enliven  his  oratory.  This  reply  (from  your  intimate  acquaintance), 
the  match  being  so  equal  and  the  contrast  so  comic,  had  the  happy 
eflect  to  put  the  house  in  good  humor,  and  leave  you  a  prey  to  the 
most  humiliating  reflections.  But  this  did  not  teach  you  to  bound 
your  future  speeches  by  the  lines  of  moderation;  for  the  very  next 
day  you  exhibited  without  a  blush  another  specimen  of  eternal  volu- 
bility. It  was  not,  however,  to  the  duration  of  your  speeches  you 
owed  the  perfection  of  your  reputation.  You,  alone,  advocated  the 
political  heresy,  that  the  people  ought  not  to  be  trusted  with  the 
election  of  representatives.  You  held  the  jargon,  that  notwith- 
standing each  state  had  an  equal  number  of  votes  in  the  Senate, 
yet  the  states  were  unequally  represented  in  the  Senate.  You 
espoused  the  tyrannic  principle,  that  where  a  State  refused  to  com- 
ply with  a  requisition  of  Congress  for  money,  that  an  army  should 
be  marched  into  its  bowels,  to  fall  indiscriminately  upon  the  prop- 
erty of  the  innocent  and  the  guilty,  instead  of  having  it  collected  as 
the  Constitution  proposed,  by  the  mild  and  equal  operation  of  laws. 
One  hour  you  sported  the  opinion  that  Congress,  afraid  of  the  militia 
resisting  their  measures,  would  neither  arm  nor  organize  them,  and 
the  next,  as  if  men  required  no  time  to  breathe  between  such  contra- 
dictions, that  they  would  harass  them  by  long  and  unnecessary 
marches,  till  they  wore  down  their  spirit  and  rendered  them  fit 
subjects  for  despotism.  You,  too,  contended  that  the  powers  and 
authorities  of  the  new  Constitution  must  destroy  the  liberties  of 
the  people;  but  that  the  same  powers  and  authorities  might  be  safely 
trusted  with  the  Old  Congress.  You  cannot  have  forgotten,  that 
by  such  ignorance  in  politics  and  contradictory  opinions,  you  ex- 
hausted the  politeness  of  the  Convention,  which  at  length  prepared 
to  slumber  when  you  rose  to  speak;  nor  can  you  have  forgotten, 
you  were  only  twice  appointed  a  member  of  a  committee,  or  that 


APPENDIX  A,   CLXXXIX  273 

these  appointments  were  merely  made  to  avoid  your  endless  gar- 
rulity,  and  if  possible,  lead  you  to  reason,  by  the  easy  road  of  familiar 
conversation.  But  lest  you  should  say  that  I  am  a  record  only  of 
the  bad,  I  shall  faithfully  recognize  whatever  occurred  to  your 
advantage.  You  originated  that  clause  in  the  Constitution  which 
enacts,  that  ''This  Constitution  and  the  laws  of  the  United  States 
which  shall  be  made  in  pursuance  thereof,  and  all  treaties  made  or 
which  shall  be  made,  under  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  shall 
be  the  supreme  law  of  the  land,  and  the  judges  in  every  State  shall 
be  bound  thereby,  anything  in  the  Constitution  or  the  law  of  any 
State  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding."  You  voted  that  an  appeal 
should  lay  to  the  Supreme  Judiciary  of  the  United  States,  for  the 
correction  of  all  errors,  both  in  law  and  fact.  You  also  agreed  to 
the  clause  that  declares  nine  States  to  be  sufficient  to  put  the  govern* 
ment  in  motion.  These  are  among  the  greater  positive  virtues  you 
exhibited  in  the  Convention;  but  it  would  be  doing  you  injustice 
were  I  to  omit  those  of  a  negative  nature.  Since  the  publication 
of  the  Constitution,  every  topic  of  vulgar  declamation  has  been 
employed  to  persuade  the  people,  that  it  will  destroy  the  trial  by 
jury,  and  is  defective  for  being  without  a  bill  of  rights.  You,  sir, 
had  more  candour  in  the  Convention  than  we  can  allow  to  those 
declaimers  out  of  it;  there  you  never  signified  by  any  motion  or 
expression  whatever,  that  it  stood  in  need  of  a  bill  of  rights,  or  in 
any  wise  endangered  the  trial  by  jury.  In  these  respects  the  Con- 
stitution met  your  entire  approbation;  for  had  you  believed  it 
defective  in  these  essentials,  you  ought  to  have  mentioned  it  in 
Convention,  or  had  you  thought  it  wanted  further  guards,  it  was 
your  indispensable  duty  to  have  proposed  them.  I  hope  to  hear 
that  the  same  candour  that  influenced  you  on  this  occasion,  has 
induced  you  to  obviate  any  improper  impressions  such  publications 
may  have  excited  in  your  constituents,  when  you  had  the  honor 
to  appear  before  the  General  Assembly.  From  such  high  instances 
of  your  approbation  (for  every  member,  like  you,  had  made  objec- 
tions to  parts  of  the  Constitution)  the  Convention  were  led  to  con- 
clude that  you  would  have  honored  it  with  your  signature,  had  you 
not  been  called  to  Maryland  upon  some  indispensable  business; 
nor  ought  it  to  be  withheld  from  you,  that  your  colleagues  informed 
many  Gentlemen  of  the  House,  that  you  told  them  you  intended 
to  return  before  its  completion.  Durst  I  proceed  beyond  these 
facts,  to  which  the  whole  Convention  can  witness,  I  would  ask  you 
why  you  changed  your  opinion  of  the  Constitution  after  leaving 
Philadelphia.  I  have  it  from  good  authority  that  you  complained 
to  an  intimate  acquaintance,  that  nothing  grieved  you  so  much  as 


274     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  apprehension  of  being  detained  in  Maryland  longer  than  you 
could  wish;  for  that  you  had  rather  lose  one  hundred  guineas,  than 
not  have  your  name  appear  to  the  Constitution.  But  as  this  cir- 
cumstance seems  to  have  been  overlooked  when  you  composed  your 
defence  of  Mr.  Gerry,  you  may  have  your  recollection  of  it  revived 
by  applying  to  Mr.  Young,  of  Spruce  street,  Philadelphia,  to  whom 
you  made  your  complaint.  But  leaving  this  curious  piece  of  human 
vanity  to  such  further  investigation  as  you  may  think  it  deserves, 
let  us  come  to  those  matters  more  particularly  between  us.  You 
have  said,  that  you  "  never  heard  Mr.  Gerry,  or  any  other  member, 
introduce  a  proposition  for  the  redemption  of  Continental  money 
according  to  its  nominal  or  any  other  value;  nor  did  you  ever  hear 
that  such  a  proposition  had  been  offered  to  the  Convention,  or  had 
been  thought  of."  That  the  Public  may  clearly  comprehend  what 
degree  of  credit  ought  to  be  given  to  this  kind  of  evidence,  they 
should  know  the  time  you  were  absent  from  the  Convention,  as  well 
as  the  time  you  attended.  If  it  should  appear  that  you  were  only 
a  few  days  absent,  when  unimportant  business  was  the  object,  they 
will  conclude  in  your  favor,  provided  they  entertain  a  good  opinion 
of  your  veracity;  on  the  other  hand,  should  it  appear  that  you  were 
absent  nearly  half  the  session,  however  your  veracity  may  be  es- 
teemed, they  must  reject  your  evidence.  As  you  have  not  stated 
this  necessary  information,  I  shall  do  it  for  you.  The  Session  of 
Convention  commenced  the  14th  of  May,  and  ended  the  17th  of 
September,  which  makes  126  days.  You  took  your  seat  the  loth 
of  June,  and  left  it  the  4th  of  September,  of  which  period  you  were 
absent  at  Baltimore  ten  days,  and  as  many  at  New  York,  so  that 
you  attended  only  66  days  out  of  126.  Now,  sir,  is  it  to  be  pre- 
sumed that  you  could  have  been  minutely  informed  of  all  that  hap- 
pened in  Convention,  and  committees  of  Convention,  during  the 
60  days  of  your  absence?  or  does  it  follow  by  any  rule  of  reasoning 
or  logic,  that  because  a  thing  did  not  happen  in  the  66  days  you  were 
present,  that  it  did  not  happen  in  the  60  days  which  you  did  not 
attend?  Is  it  anywise  likely  that  you  could  have  heard  what  passed, 
especially  during  the  last  13  days,  within  which  period  the  Land- 
holder has  fixed  the  apostacy  of  Mr.  Gerry?  or  if  it  is  likely  that  your 
particular  intimacy  with  Mr.  Gerry  would  stimulate  to  inquiries 
respecting  his  conduct,  why  is  it  that  we  do  not  see  Mr.  McHenry's 
verification  of  your  assertion,  who  was  of  the  Committee  for  con- 
sidering a  proposition  for  the  debts  of  the  union?  Your  reply  to  my 
second  charge  against  this  gentleman  may  be  soon  dismissed.  Com- 
pare his  letter  to  the  Legislature  of  his  State  with  your  defence, 
and  you  will  find  that  you  have  put  into  his  mouth  objections  differ- 


APPENDIX  A,  CLXXXIX  275 

ent  from  anything  it  contains,  so  that  if  your  representation  be  true, 
his  must  be  false.  But  there  is  another  circumstance  which  militates 
against  your  new  friend.  Though  he  was  face  to  face  with  his  col- 
leagues at  the  State  Convention  of  Massachusetts,  he  has  not  ventured 
to  call  upon  them  to  clear  him  either  of  this  charge,  or  that  respct- 
ing  the  Continental  money.  But  as  the  Public  seemed  to  require  that 
something  should  be  said  on  this  occasion,  an  anonymous  writer  denies 
that  he  made  such  a  motion,  and  endeavours  to  abate  the  force  of 
my  second  allegation,  merely  by  supposing  that  "his  colleagues  were 
men  of  too  much  honor  to  assert  that  his  reasons  in  Convention  were 
totally  different  from  those  which  he  has  published." 

But  alas,  his  colleagues  would  not  acquit  him  in  this  way,  and 
he  was  of  too  proud  a  spirit  to  ask  them  to  do  it  in  person.*  Hence 
the  charge  remains  on  its  original  grounds,  while  you,  for  want  of 
proper  concert,  have  joined  his  accusers  and  reduced  him  to  the 
humiliating  necessity  of  endeavouring  to  stifle  your  justification. 
These  points  being  dismissed,  it  remains  only  to  reconcile  the  con- 
tradictory parts  you  have  acted  on  the  great  political  stage.  You 
entered  the  convention  without  a  sufficient  knowledge  in  the  science 
of  government,  where  you  committed  a  succession  of  memorable 
blunders,  as  the  work  advanced.  Some  rays  of  light  penetrated  your 
understanding,  and  enabled  you  (as  has  been  shown)  to  assist  in 
raising  some  of  its  pillars,  when  the  desire  of  having  your  name 
enrolled  with  the  other  laborers  drew  from  you  that  remarkable 
complaint  so  expressive  of  vanity  and  conviction.  But  self-interest 
soon  gained  the  ascendant,  you  quickly  comprehended  the  delicacy 
of  your  situation,  and  this  restored  your  first  impressions  in  all  their 
original  force.  You  thought  the  Deputy  Attorney  General  of  the 
United  States  for  the  state  of  Maryland,  destined  for  a  different 
character,  and  that  inspired  you  with  the  hope  that  you  might 
derive  from  a  desperate  opposition  what  you  saw  no  prospect  of 
gaining  by  a  contrary  conduct.  But  I  will  venture  to  predict,  that 
though  you  were  to  double  your  efforts,  you  would  fail  in  your  object. 
I  leave  you  now  to  your  own  reflections,  under  a  promise,  however, 
to  give  my  name  to  the  public,  should  you  be  able  to  procure  any 
indifferent  testimony  to  contradict  a  single  fact  I  have  stated. 

*  I  will  not  say  this  writer  makes  a  distinction  between  a  thing  done  in  convention 
and  a  thing  done  in  committee.  Be  this  as  it  may,  he  confesses  more  than  Mr.  Martin; 
for  it  seems  that  Mr.  Gerry  proposed  that  "the  public  debt  should  stand  on  the  same 
ground  it  now  stands  on  by  the  articles  of  confederation."  He  might  have  subjoined 
that  Mr.  Gerry  prefaced  this  motion  by  observing  that  it  was  the  same  in  substance 
as  his  first,  in  as  much  as  it  included  his  first.  But  notwithstanding  this  motion  waa 
readily  agreed  to  without  his  explanation  being  contradicted,  yet  he  never  afterwards 
favoured  the  convention  with  a  look  of  peace,  or  a  word  of  leoondlement. 


276     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CXC.    Luther  Martin's  Reply  to  the  Landholder.^ 

Baltimore^  March  3,  1788. 
But  the  Landholder  wishes  it  to  be  supposed,  that  though  my  ver- 
acity should  not  be  doubted,  yet  my  evidence  ought  to  be  rejected, 
and  observes,  that  to  comprehend  what  credit  ought  to  be  given  to 
it,  by  which  I  suppose  he  means  its  sufficiency  if  credited,  it  ought 
to  be  known  how  long  I  was  absent  from  Convention,  as  well  as  the 
time  I  attended.  I  believe  Sir,  whoever  will  read  my  former  pub- 
lication will  in  a  moment  perceive,  that  I  there  'stated'  all  the  'in- 
formation' on  this  subject  that  was  necessary  or  material,  and  that 
I  left  no  defect  for  the  Landholder  to  supply.  I  there  mentioned 
that  'I  took  my  seat  early  in  June,  that  I  left  Philadelphia  on  the 
fourth  of  September,  and  during  that  period  was  not  absent  from 
the  convention  while  sitting,  except  only  five  days  in  the  beginning 
of  August,  immediately  after  the  G>mmittee  of  Detail  had  reported.' 
I  did  not  state  the  precise  day  of  June  when  I  took  my  seat  —  it 
was  the  ninth,  not  the  tenth  —  a  very  inconsiderable  mistake  of 
the  Landholder.  But  between  that  day  and  the  fourth  of  September 
he  says  that  I  was  absent  ten  days  at  Baltimore,  and  as  many  at 
New  York,  and  thereby  insinuates  that  an  absence  of  twenty  days 
from  the  Convention  intervened  during  that  period,  in  which  time 
Mr.  Gerry  might  have  made  and  failed  in  his  motion  concerning 
continental  money.  A  short  state  of  facts  is  all  that  is  necessary 
to  shew  the  disingenuity  of  the  Landholder,  and  that  it  is  very  pos- 
sible to  convey  a  falsehood,  or  something  very  much  like  it,  almost 
in  the  words  of  truth.  On  the  twenty-fifth  of  July  the  Convention 
adjourned,  to  meet  again  on  the  sixth  of  August.  I  embraced  that 
opportunity  to  come  to  Baltimore,  and  left  Philadelphia  on  the 
twenty-seventh;  I  returned  on  the  fourth  of  August,  and  on  the 
sixth  attended  the  Convention,  with  such  members  as  were  in  town, 
at  which  time  the  Committee  of  Detail  made  their  report,  and  many 
of  the  members  being  yet  absent,  we  adjourned  to  the  next  day.  Mr. 
Gerry  left  Philadelphia  to  go  to  New  York  the  day  before  I  left  there 
to  come  to  Baltimore;  he  had  not  returned  on  Tuesday,  the  seventh 
of  August,  when  I  set  out  for  New  York,  from  whence  I  returned 
and  took  my  seat  in  Convention  on  Monday,  the  thirteenth.  It  is 
true  that  from  the  twenty-fifth  of  July  to  the  thirteenth  of  August 
eighteen  (not  twenty)  days  had  elapsed,  but  on  one  of  those  days 
I  attended,  and  on  twelve  of  them  the  Convention  did  not  meet. 

*  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  the  Constitution,  345-351;  first  printed  in  the  Maryland 
Journal,  March  7,  1788.  For  the  origin  of  this  controversy  see  above  CLVII,  CLXI. 
CLXXV,  and  CLXXXIX.    It  U  continued  in  CXCI.  CXCII  and  CXCIX 


APPENDIX  A,   CXC  277 

I  was,  therefore,  perfecdy  correct  in  my  original  statement  that 
from  early  in  June  to  the  fourth  of  September  I  was  absent  but  five 
days  from  the  G>nvention  while  sitting,  and  in  that  statement 
omittej}  no  'necessary  information'.  It  is  also  true  that  of  those 
eighteen  days  Mr.  Gerry  was  absent  twelve  or  thirteen,  and  that 
one  of  those  days  when  he  was  not  absent  was  Sunday,  on  which 
day  the  Convention  did  not  meet.  Thus,  Sir,  by  relating  facts  as 
they  really  occurred,  we  find  the  only  time  between  early  in  June 
and  the  fourth  of  September  when  such  a  motion  could  have  been 
made  by  Mr.  Gerry  without  my  being  present  is  narrowed  down  to 
four,  or  at  most  five  days,  as  I  originally  stated  it,  although  Land- 
holder wishes  it  should  be  supposed  there  were  twenty  days  during 
that  period  when  it  might  have  taken  place  without  my  knowledge, 
to  wit,  ten  while  I  was  at  Baltimore,  and  as  many  more  while  at 
New  York.  The  Landholder  also  states  that  the  Convention  com- 
menced the  fourteenth  day  of  May,  and  that  I  did  not  take  my  seat 
till  the  tenth  day  of  June,  by  which,  if  he  means  anything,  I  pre- 
sume he  means  to  insinuate  that  within  that  portion  of  time  Mr. 
Gerry's  motion  might  have  been  made  and  rejected.  He  is  here, 
Sir,  equally  unfortunate  and  disingenuous.  Though  the  Conven- 
tion was  to  have  met  by  appointment  on  the  fourteenth  of  May,  yet 
no  material  business  was  entered  upon  till  on  or  about  the  thirtieth 
of  that  month.  It  was  on  that  day  that  the  Convention,  having 
had  certain  propositions  laid  before  them  by  the  Honourable  Gover- 
nor of  Virginia,  resolved  to  go  into  a  consideration  of  these  propo- 
sitions. In  this  fact  I  am  confident  I  am  not  mistaken,  as  I  state 
the  day  not  merely  from  my  own  recollection  but  from  minutes 
which  I  believe  to  be  very  correct,  in  my  possession,  of  the  informa- 
tion given  by  the  Honourable  Mr.  McHenry  to  the  assembly.  The 
truth  is.  Sir,  that  very  little  progress  had  been  made  by  the  Conven- 
tion before  I  arrived,  and  that  they  had  not  been  more  than  ten 
days,  or  about  that  time,  seriously  engaged  in  business.  The  first 
thing  I  did  after  I  took  my  seat  was  carefully  to  examine  the  jour- 
nals for  information  of  what  had  already  been  done  or  proposed.  I 
was  also  furnished  with  notes  of  the  debates  which  had  taken  place, 
and  can  with  truth  say  that  I  made  myself  'minutely  informed'  of 
what  had  happened  before  that  period.  In  the  same  manner,  after 
my  return  from  New  York,  I  consulted  the  journals  (for  we  were 
permitted  to  read  them,  although  we  were  not  always  permitted  to 
take  copies).  If  the  motion  attributed  to  Mr.  Gerry  had  been  made 
and  rejected,  either  before  I  first  took  my  seat  or  while  at  New  York, 
it  would  have  there  appeared,  and  that  no  such  motion  was  made 
and  rejected  during  either  of  these  periods  I  appeal  to  the  highest 


278     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

possible  authority.  I  appeal  to  those  very  journals,  which  ought 
to  have  been  published,  and  which  we  are  informed  are  placed  in 
the  possession  of  our  late  Honourable  President.  But  why,  Sir, 
should  I  appeal  to  these  journals,  or  to  any  other  authority?  Let 
the  Landholder  turn  to  his  eighth  number,  addressed  to  the  Hon- 
ourable Mr.  Gerry;  let  him  blush,  unless  incapable  of  that  sensation, 
while  he  reads  the  following  passage:  'Almost  the  whole  time  dur- 
ing the  sitting  of  the  Convention,  and  until  the  Constitution  had 
received  its  present  form,  no  man  was  more  plausible  and  conciliat- 
ing on  every  subject  than  Mr.  Gerry,'  &c.  Thus  stood  Mr.  Gerry, 
till  towards  the  close  of  the  business  he  introduced  a  motion  respect- 
ing the  redemption  of  paper  money.  The  whole  time  of  the  sitting 
of  the  Convention  was  not  almost  past.  The  Constitution  had 
not  received  its  present  form,  nor  was  the  business  drawing  towards 
a  close,  until  long  after  I  took  my  seat  in  Convention.  It  is  there- 
fore proved  by  the  Landholder  himself  that  Mr.  Gerry  did  not 
make  this  motion  at  any  time  before  the  ninth  day  of  June.  Nay 
more,  in  the  paper  now  before  me  he  acknowledges  that  in  his  eighth 
number  he  meant  (and  surely  no  one  ought  to  know  his  meaning 
better  than  himself)  to  fix  Mr.  Gerry's  apostacy  to  a  period  within 
the  last  thirteen  days.  Why  then  all  this  misrepresentation  of  my 
absence  at  Baltimore  and  New  York?  Why  the  attempt  to  induce 
a  belief  that  the  Convention  had  been  engaged  in  business  from  the 
fourteenth  of  May,  and  the  insinuation  that  it  might  have  happened 
in  those  periods?  And  why  the  charge  that  in  not  stating  those 
facts  I  had  withheld  from  the  public  information  necessary  to  its 
forming  a  right  judgment  of  the  credit  which  ought  to  be  given  to 
my  evidence.  But,  Sir,  I  am  really  at  a  loss  which  most  to  admire  — 
the  depravity  of  this  writer's  heart,  or  the  weakness  of  his  head.  Is 
it  possible  he  should  not  perceive  that  the  moment  he  fixes  the  time 
of  Mr.  Gerry's  motion  to  the  last  thirteen  days  of  the  Convention, 
he  proves  incontestably  the  falsehood  and  malice  of  his  charges 
against  that  gentleman  —  for  he  has  expressly  stated  that  this 
motion  and  the  rejection  it  received  was  the  cause,  and  the  sole 
cause,  of  his  apostacy;  that  'before,  there  was  nothing  in  the  system, 
as  it  now  stands,  to  which  he  had  any  objection,  but  that  afterwards 
he  was  inspired  with  the  utmost  rage  and  intemperate  opposition 
to  the  whole  system  he  had  formerly  praised;'  whereas  I  have  shown 
to  the  clearest  demonstration,  that  a  considerable  time  before  the 
last  thirteen  days,  Mr.  Gerry  had  given  the  most  decided  opposition 
to  the  system.  I  have  shown  this  by  recital  of  facts,  which  if  credited, 
incontestibly  prove  it  —  facts  which,  I  again  repeat,  will  never  be 
contradicted  by  any  member  of  the  Convention.     I  ground  this 


APPENDIX  A,   CXC  279 

assertion  upon  the  fullest  conviction  that  it  is  impossible  to  find  a 
single  person  in  that  number  so  wicked,  as  publicly  and  deliberately 
to  prostitute  his  name  in  support  of  falsehood,  and  at  the  same  time 
so  weak  as  to  do  this  when  he  must  be  sure  of  detection.  But  the 
Landholder  is  willing  to  have  it  supposed  that  Mr.  Gerry  might 
have  made  the  motion  in  a  'committee',  and  that  there  it  might 
have  happened  without  my  knowledge;  to  such  wretched  subter- 
fuges is  he  driven.  This  evasion,  however,  will  be  equally  unavail- 
ing. The  business  of  the  committees  were  not  of  a  secret  nnture, 
nor  were  they  conducted  in  a  secret  manner;  I  mean  as  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Convention.  I  am  satisfied  that  there  was  no  committee 
while  I  was  there,  of  whose  proceedings  I  was  not  at  least  'so  minutely 
informed',  that  an  attempt  of  so  extraordinary  a  nature  as  that 
attributed  to  Mr.  Gerry,  and  attended  with  such  an  immediate  and 
remarkable  revolution  in  his  conduct,  could  not  have  taken  place 
without  my  having  heard  something  concerning  it.  The  non- 
adoption  of  a  measure  by  a  committee  did  not  preclude  its  being 
proposed  to  the  Convention,  and  being  there  adopted.  Can  it  be 
presumed  that  a  question  in  which  Mr.  Gerry  is  represented  to  have 
been  so  deeply  interested,  and  by  the  fate  of  which  his  conduct  was 
entirely  influenced,  would  for  want  of  success  in  a  committee  have 
been  totally  relinquished  by  him,  without  a  single  eflFort  to  carry  it 
in  Convention!  If  any  other  proof  is  wanting,  I  appeal  again  to  the 
Landholder  himself.  In  his  eighth  number  he  states  that  the  motion 
was  rejected  'by  the  Convention.'  Let  it  be  remembered  also,  as 
I  have  before  observed,  in  the  paper  now  before  me,  he  declares  it 
was  his  intention  in  that  number  to  fix  Mr.  Gerry's  apostacy  to  a 
period  within  the  last  thirteen  days;  and  in  the  same  number  he 
observes  that  Mr.  Gerry's  resentment  could  only  embarrass  and 
delay  the  completion  of  the  business  for  a  few  days;  all  which  equally 
militate  against  every  idea  of  the  motion  being  made  before  he  left 
Philadelphia,  whether  in  Committee  or  in  Convention.  The  Land- 
holder hath  also  asserted,  that  I  have  'put  into  Mr.  Gerry's  mouth, 
objections  different  from  any  thing  his  lette  to  the  legislature  of 
his  State  contains,  so  that  if  my  representation  is  true,  his  must 
be  false.'  In  this  charge  he  is  just  as  well  founded  as  in  those  I 
have  already  noticed.  Mr.  Gerry  has  more  than  once  published 
to  the  world,  under  the  sanction  of  his  name,  that  he  opposed  the 
system  from  a  firm  persuasion  that  it  would  endanger  the  liberties  of 
America,  and  destroy  the  freedom  of  the  States  and  their  citizens. 
Every  word  which  I  have  stated  as  coming  from  his  mouth,  so  far 
from  being  inconsistent  with  those  declarations,  are  perfectly  cor- 
respondent  thereto  and  direct  proofs  of  their  truth.     When   the 


ZSO  RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Landholder  informed  us  that  Mr.  Gerry  was  'face  to  face  with  his 
colleagues  in  the  Convention  of  Massachusetts,'  why  did  he  not, 
unless  he  wished  to  mislead  the  public,  also  inform  us  for  what  pur- 
pose he  was  there?  that  it  was  only  to  answer  questions;  that  might  be 
proposed  to  him,  not  himself  to  ask  questions  that  he  could  not  con- 
sistently interfere  in  any  manner  in  the  debates,  and  that  he  was 
even  prohibited  an  opportunity  of  explaining  such  parts  of  his  con- 
duct as  were  censured  in  his  presence?  By  the  anonymous  publica- 
tion alluded  to  by  the  Landholder,  and  inserted  in  the  note,  Mr. 
Gerry's  colleagues  are  not  called  upon  to  acquit  him:  it  only  declares 
'that  he  believes  them  to  be  men  of  too  much  honour  to  assert  that 
his  reasons  in  Convention  were  totally  different  from  those  he  pub- 
lished; '  and  in  this  I  presume  he  was  not  disappointed  for  the 
Landholder  otherwise  would  have  published  it  with  triumph;  but 
if  Mr.  Gerry,  as  it  is  insinuated,  was  only  prevented  by  pride,  from, 
in  person,  requesting  them  to  acquit  him,  it  amounts  to  a  proof  of 
his  consciousness  that,  as  men  of  honour,  they  could  not  have  re- 
fused it,  had  he  made  the  request.  No  person  who  views  the  ab- 
surdities and  inconsistencies  of  the  Landholder,  can  I  think,  have  a 
very  respectable  opinion  of  his  understanding,  but  I  who  am  not 
much  prejudiced  in  his  favour,  could  scarcely  have  conceived  him 
so  superlatively  weak  as  to  expect  to  deceive  the  public  and  obtain 
credit  to  himself  by  asking  'if  charges  against  Mr.  Gerry  are  not 
true  why  do  not  his  colleagues  contradict  them?'  and  'why  is  it  that 
we  do  not  see  Mr.  McHenry's  verification  of  your  assertions?"  If 
these  Gentlemen  were  to  do  Mr.  Gerry  that  justice,  he  might  as  well 
inquire  'why  is  it  we  do  not  also  see  the  verification  of  A,  B,  C,  and 
D  and  so  on  to  the  last  letter  of  the  Conventional  alphabet.  When 
the  Landholder  in  his  eighth  number  addressed  himself  to  Mr.  Gerry 
he  introduces  his  charges  by  saying  'you  doubtless  will  recollect 
the  following  state  of  facts;  if  you  do  not  every  member  of  the  Con- 
vention will  attest  them.'  One  member  of  the  Convention  has  had 
firmness  sufficient  to  contradict  them  with  his  name,  although  he 
was  well  apprised  that  he  thereby  exposed  himself  as  a  mark  for  the 
arrows  of  his  political  adversaries,  and  as  to  some  of  them,  he  was 
not  unacquainted  with  what  kind  of  men  he  had  to  deal.  But  of 
all  the  members  who  composed  that  body,  not  one  has  yet  stepped 
forward  to  make  good  the  Landholder's  prediction;  nor  has  one  been 
found  to  'attest'  his  statement  of  facts.  Many  reasons  may  be 
assigned  why  the  members  of  the  Convention  should  not  think  them- 
selves under  a  moral  obligations  of  involving  themselves  in  con- 
troversy by  giving  their  names  in  vindication  of  Mr.  Gerry;  and  I 
do  not  believe  any  of  those  who  signed  the  proposed  Constitution 


APPENDIX  A,   CXCI  28 1 

would  consider  themselves  bound  to  do  this  by  any  political  obliga- 
tion: But,  Sir  I  can  hardly  suppose  that  Mr.  Gerry  is  so  perfectly 
esteemed  and  respected  by  every  person  who  had  a  seat  in  that  body, 
that  not  a  single  individual  could  possibly  be  procured  to  give  his 
sanction  to  the  Landholder's  charges,  if  it  could  be  done  with  jus- 
tice and  as  to  myself,  I  much  question  whether  it  would  be  easy  to 
convince  any  person,  who  was  present  at  our  information  to  the 
assembly,  that  every  one  of  my  honourable  colleagues,  (to  each  of 
whose  merit  I  cordially  subscribe,  though  compelled  to  differ  from 
them  in  political  sentiments)  would  be  prevented  by  motives  of 
personal  delicacy  to  myself,  from  contradicting  the  facts  I  have  stated 
relative  to  Mr.  Gerry,  if  it  could  be  done  consistent  with  truth. 


•  •  • 


CXCI.    Luther  Martin's  Reply  to  the  Landholder.^ 

Baltimore,  March  14,  1788. 
I  shall  at  this  time  beg  your  indulgence,  while  I  make  some 
observations  on  a  publication  which  the  Landholder  has  done  me 
the  honour  to  address  to  me,  in  the  Maryland  Journal  of  the  29th 
of  February  last.  In  my  controversy  with  that  writer,  on  the  sub- 
ject of  Mr.  Gerry,  I  have  already  enabled  you  to  decide,  without 
difficulty,  on  the  credit  which  ought  to  be  given  to  his  most  positive 
assertions  and  should  scarce  think  it  worth  my  time  to  notice  his 
charges  against  myself,  was  it  not  for  the  opportunity  it  affords  me 
of  stating  certain  facts  and  transactions,  of  which  you  ought  to  be 
informed,  some  of  which  were  undesignedly  omitted  by  me  when  I 
had  the  honour  of  being  called  before  the  House  of  Delegates.  No 
'extreme  modesty'  on  my  part  was  requisite  to  induce  me  to  conceal 
the  *  sacrifice  of  resentments '  against  Mr.  Gerry,  since  no  such  sacri- 
fice had  ever  been  made,  nor  had  any  such  resentments  ever  existed. 
The  principal  opposition  in  sentiment  between  Mr.  Gerry  and  my- 
self, was  on  the  subject  of  representation;  but  even  on  that  subject, 
he  was  much  more  conceding  than  his  colleagues,  two  of  whom 
obstinately  persisted  in  voting  against  the  equality  of  representation 
in  the  senate,  when  the  question  was  taken  in  Convention  upon  the 
adoption  of  the  conciliatory  propositions,  on  the  fate  of  which  de- 
pended, I  believe,  the  continuance  of  the  Convention.  In  many 
important  questions  we  perfectly  harmonized  in  opinion,  and  where 
we  differed,  it  never  was  attended  with  warmth  or  animosity,  nor 


*P.  L.  Ford.  Essays  on  the  Constitution  pp  353-359;  first  printed  in  the 
Maryland  Journal^  March  18,  1788.  For  the  origin  of  this  controversy  see  above 
CLVII,  CLXII,  CLXXV,  CLXXXIX,  CXC.  It  is  continued  in  CXCII  and  CXCIX, 
below. 


282      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

did  it  in  any  respect  interfere  with  a  friendly  intercourse  and  inter- 
change of  attention  and  civilities.  We  both  opposed  the  extra- 
ordinary powers  over  the  militia,  given  to  the  general  government. 
We  were  both  against  the  re-eligibility  of  the  president.  We  both 
concurred  in  the  attempt  to  prevent  members  of  each  branch  of  the 
legislature  from  being  appointable  to  offices,  and  in  many  other 
instances,  although  the  Landholder,  with  his  usual  regard  to  truth 
and  his  usual  imposing  effrontery,  tells  me,  that  I  Moubdess  must 
remember  Mr.  Gerry  and  myself  never  voted  alike,  except  in  the 
instances'  he  has  mentioned.  As  little  foundation  is  there  in  his 
assertion,  that  I  'cautioned  certain  members  to  be  on  their  guard 
against  his  wiles,  for  that  he  and  Mr.  Mason  held  private  meetings, 
where  the  plans  were  concerted  to  aggrandize,  at  the  expence  of  the 
small  States,  old  Massachusetts  and  the  ancient  dominion.'  I  need 
only  state  facts  to  refute  the  assertion.  Some  time  in  the  month 
of  August,  a  number  of  members  who  considered  the  system,  as 
then  under  consideration  and  likely  to  be  adopted,  extremely  excep- 
tionable, and  of  a  tendency  to  destroy  the  rights  and  liberties  of  the 
United  States,  thought  it  advisable  to  meet  together  in  the  evenings, 
in  order  to  have  a  communication  of  sentiments,  and  to  concert  a 
plan  of  conventional  opposition  to,  and  amendment  of  that  system, 
so  as,  if  possible,  to  render  it  less  dangerous.  Mr.  Gerry  was  the 
first  who  proposed  this  measure  to  me,  and  that  before  any  meeting 
had  taken  place,  and  wished  we  might  assemble  at  my  lodgings,  but 
not  having  a  room  convenient,  we  fixed  upon  another  place.  There 
Mr.  Gerry  and  Mr.  Mason  did  hold  meetings,  but  with  them  also 
met  the  Delegates  from  New  Jersey  and  Connecticut,  a  part  of  the 
Delegation  from  Delaware,  an  honorable  member  from  South  Caro- 
lina, one  other  from  Georgia,  and  myself.    These  were  the  only 

*  private  meetings'  that  ever  I  knew  or  heard  to  be  held  by  Mr. 
Gerry  and  Mr.  Mason,  meetings  at  which  I  myself  attended  until 
I  left  the  Convention,  and  of  which  the  sole  object  was  not  to  aggran- 
dize the  great  at  the  expense  of  the  small,  but  to  protect  and  pre- 
serve, if  possible,  the  existence  and  essential  rights  of  all  the  states, 
and  the  liberty  and  freedom  of  their  citizens.  Thus,  my  fellow 
citizens,  I  am  obliged,  unless  I  could  accept  the  compliment  at  an 
expence  of  truth  equal  to  the  Landholder's,  to  give  up  all  claim  to 
being  *  placed  beyond  the  reach  of  ordinary  panegyrick,'  and  to  that 

*  magnanimity '  which  he  was  so  solicitous  to  bestow  upon  me, that 
he  has  wandered  [into]  the  regions  of  falsehood  to  seek  the  occasion. 
When  we  find  such  disregard  of  truth,  even  in  the  introduction, 
while  only  on  the  threshold,  we  may  form  judgment  what  respect 
is  to  be  paid  to  the  information  he  shall  give  us  of  what  passed  in  the 


APPENDIX  A,    CXCI  283 

Convention  when  he  *  draws  aside  the  veil/  a  veil  which  was  inter- 
posed between  our  proceedings  and  the  Public,  in  my  opinion,  for 
the  most  dangerous  of  purposes,  and  which  was  never  designed  by 
the  advocates  of  the  system  to  be  drawn  aside,  or  if  it  was,  not  till 
it  should  be  too  late  for  any  beneficial  purpose,  which  as  far  as  it  is 
done,  or  pretended  to  be  done,  on  the  present  occasion,  is  only  for 
the  purpose  of  deception  and  misrepresentation.  It  was  on  Saturday 
that  I  first  took  my  seat.  I  obtained  that  day  a  copy  of  the  propo- 
sitions that  had  been  laid  before  the  Convention,  and  which  were 
then  the  subject  of  discussion  in  a  committee  of  the  whole.  The 
Secretary  was  so  polite  as,  at  my  request,  to  wait  upon  me  at  the 
State  House  the  next  day  (being  Sunday),  and  there  gave  me  an 
opportunity  of  examining  the  journals  and  making  myself  acquainted 
with  the  little  that  had  been  done  before  my  arrival.  I  was  not  a 
little  surprised  at  the  system  brought  forward,  and  was  solicitous 
to  learn  the  reasons  which  had  been  assigned  in  its  support;  for  this 
purpose  the  journals  could  be  of  no  service;  I  therefore  conversed 
on  the  subject  with  different  members  of  the  Convention,  and  was 
favoured  with  minutes  of  the  debates  which  had  taken  place  before 
my  arrival.  I  applied  to  history  for  what  lights  it  could  afford  me, 
and  I  procured  everything  the  most  valuable  I  could  find  in  Phila- 
delphia on  the  subject  of  governments  in  general,  and  on  the  Ameri- 
can revolution  and  governments  in  particular.  I  devoted  my  whole 
time  and  attention  to  the  business  in  which  we  were  engaged,  and 
made  use  of  all  the  opportunities  I  had,  and  abilities  I  possessed, 
conscientiously  to  decide  what  part  I  ought  to  adopt  in  the  discharge 
of  that  sacred  duty  I  owed  to  my  country,  in  the  exercise  of  the  trust 
you  had  reposed  in  me.  I  attended  the  Convention  many  days 
without  taking  any  share  in  the  debates,  listening  in  silence  to  the 
eloquence  of  others,  and  offering  no  other  proof  that  I  possessed  the 
powers  of  speech,  than  giving  my  yea  or  nay  when  a  question  was 
taken,  and  notwithstanding  my  propensity  to  'endless  garrulity,' 
should  have  been  extremely  happy  if  I  could  have  continued  that 
line  of  conduct,  without  making  a  sacrifice  of  your  rights  and  politi- 
cal happiness.  The  committee  of  the  whole  house  had  made  but 
small  progress,  at  the  time  I  arrived,  in  the  discussion  of  the  propo- 
sitions which  had  been  referred  to  them;  they  completed  that  dis- 
cussion, and  made  their  report.  The  propositions  of  the  minority 
were  then  brought  forward  and  rejected.  The  Convention  had 
resumed  the  report  of  the  committee,  and  had  employed  some  days 
in  its  consideration.  Thirty  days,  I  believe,  or  more,  had  elapsed 
from  my  taking  my  seat  before  in  the  language  of  the  Landholder, 
I  *  opened  in  a  speech  which  held  during  two  days/    Such,  my  fellow 


284      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

citizens,  is  the  true  state  of  the  conduct  I  pursued  when  I  took  my 
seat  in  Convention,  and  which  the  Landholder,  to  whom  falsehood 
appears  more  familiar  than  truth,  with  his  usual  affrontery,  has 
misrepresented  by  a  positive  declaration,  that  without  obtaining 
or  endeavoring  to  obtain  any  information  on  the  subject,  I  hastily 
and  insolently  obtruded  my  sentiments  on  the  Convention,  and  to 
the  astonishment  of  every  member  present,  on  the  very  day  I  took 
my  seat,  began  a  speech,  which  continued  two  days,  in  opposition 
to  those  measures  which,  on  mature  deliberation,  had  been  adopted 
by  the  Convention.     But  I  'alone  advocated  the  political  heresy, 
that  the  people  ought  not  to  be  trusted  with  the  election  of  repre- 
sentatives/     On   this   subject,  as  I  would  wish  to  be  on  every 
other,    my    fellow    citizens,    I    have    been    perfectly   explicit    in 
the   information  I  gave   to   the  House  of  Delegates,   and  which 
has  since  been  published.     In  a  state  government,  I  consider  all 
power  flowing   immediately   from   the   people   in   their  individual 
capacity,  and  that  the  people,  in  their  individual  capacity,  have,  and 
ought  to  have  the  right  of  choosing  delegates  in  a  state  legislature, 
the  business  of  which  is  to  make  laws,  regulating  their  concerns,  as 
individuals,  and  operating  upon  them  as  such;    but  in  a  federal 
government,  formed  over  free  states,  the  power  flows  from  the  people, 
and  the  right  of  choosing  delegates  belongs  to  them  only  mediately 
through  their  respective  state  governments  which  are  the  members 
composing  the  federal  government,  and  from  whom  all  its  power 
immediately  proceeds;    to  which  state  governments,  the  choice  of 
the  federal  delegates  immediately  belongs.     I  should  blush  indeed 
for  my  ignorance  of  the  first  elements  of  government,  was  I  to  enter- 
tain different  sentiments  on  the  subject;    and  if  this  is  'political 
heresy,'  I  have  no  ambition  to  be  ranked  with  those  who  are  ortho- 
dox.   ...  As  to  the  'jargon'  attributed  to  me  of  maintaining  that 
notwithstanding  each  state  had  an  equal  number  of  votes  in  the 
senate,  yet  the  states  were  unequally  represented  in  the  senate,'  the 
Landholder  has  all  the  merit  of  its  absurdity;    nor  can  I  conceive 
what  sentiment  it  is  that  I  ever  have  expressed,  to  which  he,  with 
his  usual  perversion  and  misrepresentation,  could  give  such  a  colour- 
ing.   That  I  ever  suggested  the  idea  of  letting  loose  an  army  indis- 
criminately on  the  innocent  and  guilty,  in  a  state  refusing  to  comply 
with  the  requisitions  of  Congress,  or  that  such  an  idea  ever  had 
place  in  my  mind,  is  a  falsehood  so  groundless,  so  base  and  malignant, 
that  it  could  only  have  originated  or  been  devised  by  a  heart  which 
would  dishonour  the  midnight  assassin.     My  sentiments  on  this  sub- 
ject are  well  known;   it  was  only  in  the  case  where  a  state  refused 
to  comply  with  the  requisitions  of  Congress,  that  I  was  willing  to 


APPENDIX  A,    CXCI  285 

grant  the  general  government  those  powers  which  the  proposed 
constitution  gives  it  in  every  case.*  Had  I  been  a  greater  friend  to 
a  standing  army,  and  not  quite  so  averse  to  expose  your  liberties 
to  a  soldiery,  I  do  not  believe  the  Landholder  would  have  chose  me 
for  the  object  on  whom  to  expend  his  artillery  of  falsehood. 

That  a  system  may  enable  government  wantonly  to  exercise 
power  over  the  militia,  to  call  out  an  unreasonable  number  from  any 
particular  state  without  its  permission,  and  to  march  them  upon, 
and  continue  them  in,  remote  and  improper  services;  that  the  same 
system  should  enable  the  government  totally  to  discard,  render 
useless,  and  even  disarm,  the  militia,  when  it  would  remove  them  out 
of  the  way  of  opposing  its  ambitious  views,  is  by  no  means  incon- 
sistent, and  is  really  the  case  in  the  proposed  constitution.  In  both 
these  respects  it  is,  in  my  opinion,  highly  faulty,  and  ought  to  be 
amended.  In  the  proposed  system  the  general  government  has  a 
power  not  only  without  the  consent,  but  contrary  to  the  will  of  the 
state  government,  to  call  out  the  whole  of  its  militia,  without  regard 
to  religious  scruples,  or  any  other  consideration,  and  to  continue  them 
in  service  as  long  as  it  pleases,  thereby  subjecting  the  freemen  of  a 
whole  state  to  martial  law  and  reducing  them  to  the  situation  of 
slaves.  It  has  also,  by  another  clause,  the  powers  by  which  only 
the  militia  can  be  organized  and  armed,  and  by  the  neglect  of  which 
they  may  be  rendered  utterly  useless  and  insignificant,  when  it  suits 
the  ambitious  purposes  of  government.  Nor  is  the  suggestion 
unreasonable,  even  if  it  had  been  made,  that  the  government  might 
improperly  oppress  and  harass  the  militia,  the  better  to  reconcile 
them  to  the  idea  of  regular  troops,  who  might  relieve  them  from  the 
burthen,  and  to  render  them  less  opposed  to  the  measures  it  might 
be  disposed  to  adopt  for  the  purpose  of  reducing  them  to  that  state 
of  insignificancy  and  uselessness.  When  the  Landholder  declared 
that  *I  contended  the  powers  and  authorities  of  the  new  constitu- 
tion must  destroy  the  liberties  of  the  people,'  he  for  once  stumbled 
on  the  truth,  but  even  this  he  could  not  avoid  coupling  with  an 
assertion  utterly  false.     I  never  suggested  that  *the  same  powers 

*  According  to  this  idea,  I  endeavored  to  obtain  as  an  amendment  to  the  system 
the  following  clause:  'And  whenever  the  legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  find  it 
necessary  that  revenue  shall  be  raised  by  direct  taxation,  having  apportioned  the  same 
by  the  above  rule,  requisitions  shall  be  made  of  the  respective  states  to  pay  into  the 
continental  treasury  their  respective  quotas  within  a  time  in  the  said  requisition  to  be 
specified,  and  in  case  of  any  of  the  states  failing  to  comply  with  such  requisition,  then, 
and  then  only,  to  have  power  to  devise  and  pass  acts  directing  the  mode,  and  authoriz- 
ing the  same  in  the  state  failing  therein.'  This  was  rejected,  and  that  power,  which  I 
wished  to  have  given  the  government  only  in  this  particular  instance,  is  given  to  it 
without  any  restraint  or  limitation  in  every  case. 


286     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

could  be  safely  entrusted  to  the  old  Congress;'  on  the  contrary,  I 
opposed  many  of  the  powers  as  being  of  that  nature  that,  in  my 
opinion,  they  could  not  be  entrusted  to  any  government  whatever 
consistent  with  the  freedom  of  the  states  and  their  citizens,  and 
I  earnestly  recommended,  what  I  wish  my  fellow  citizens  deeply  to 
impress  on  your  minds,  that  in  altering  or  amending  our  federal 
government  no  greater  powers  ought  to  be  given  than  experience 
has  shown  to  be  necessary,  since  it  will  be  easy  to  delegate  further 
power  when  time  shall  dictate  the  expediency  or  necessity,  but 
powers  once  bestowed  upon  a  government,  should  they  be  found 
ever  so  dangerous  or  destructive  to  freedom,  cannot  be  resumed  or 
wrested  from  government  but  by  another  revolution. 


CXCII.    Luther  Martin's  Reply  to  the  Landholder.^ 

Baltimore,  March  19,  1788. 
In  the  recognition  which  the  Landholder  professes  to  make  ^of 
what  occurred  to  my  advantage,'  he  equally  deals  in  the  arts  of 
misrepresentation,  as  while  he  was  'only  the  record  of  the  bad,'  and 
I  am  equally  obliged  from  a  regard  to  truth  to  disclaim  his  pretended 
approbation  as  his  avowed  censure.  He  declares  that  I  originated 
the  clause  which  enacts  that  'this  Constitution  and  the  laws  of  the 
United  States,  which  shall  be  made  in  pursuance  thereof,  and  all 
treaties  made,  or  which  shall  be  made,  under  the  authority  of  the 
United  States,  shall  be  the  supreme  law  of  the  land,  and  the  judges 
in  every  state  shall  be  bound  thereby,  any  thing  in  the  Constitution 
or  the  laws  of  any  state  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.'  To  place 
this  matter  in  a  proper  point  of  view,  it  will  be  necessary  to  state, 
that  as  the  propositions  were  reported  by  the  committee  of  the  whole 
house,  a  power  was  given  to  the  general  government  to  negative  the 
laws  passed  by  the  state  legislatures,  a  power  which  I  considered  as 
totally  inadmissible;  in  substitution  of  this  I  proposed  the  following 
clause,  which  you  will  find  very  materially  different  from  the  clause 
adopted  by  the  Constitution,  'that  the  legislative  acts  of  the  United 
States,  made  by  virtue  and  in  pursuance  of  the  articles  of  the  union, 
and  all  treaties  made  and  ratified  under  the  authority  of  the  United 
States,  shall  be  the  supreme  law  of  the  respective  states,  so  far  as 
those  acts  or  treaties  shall  relate  to  the  said  states  or  their  citizens, 
and  that  the  judiciaries  of  the  several  states  shall  be  bound  thereby 
in  their  decisions,  any  thing  in  the  respective  laws  of  the  individual 

*  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  the  Constitution,  360-371;  first  printed  in  the  Maryland 
Journal,  March  21, 1788.  For  the  origin  of  this  controversy  see  above  CLVII,  CLXII, 
CLXXV,  CLXXXIX-CXCI,  see  also  CXCIX, 


APPENDIX  A,   CXCII  287 

States  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding/  When  this  clause  was 
introduced,  it  was  not  established  that  inferior  continental  courts 
should  be  appointed  for  trial  of  all  questions  arising  on  treaties  and 
on  the  laws  of  the  general  government,  and  it  was  my  wish  and  hope 
that  every  question  of  that  kind  would  have  been  determined  in 
the  first  Instance  in  the  courts  of  the  respective  states;  had  this 
been  the  case,  the  propriety  and  the  necessity  that  treaties  duly 
made  and  ratified,  and  the  laws  of  the  general  government,  should 
be  binding  on  the  state  judiciaries  which  were  to  decide  upon  them, 
must  be  evident  to  every  capacity,  while  at  the  same  time,  if  such 
treaties  or  laws  were  inconsistent  with  our  constitution  and  bill  of 
rights,  the  judiciaries  of  this  state  would  be  bound  to  reject  the  first 
and  abide  by  the  last,  since  in  the  form  I  introduced  the  clause, 
notwithstanding  treaties  and  the  laws  of  the  general  government 
were  intended  to  be  superior  to  the  laws  of  our  state  government, 
where  they  should  be  opposed  to  each  other,  yet  that  they  were  not 
proposed  nor  meant  to  be  superior  to  our  constitution  and  bill  of 
rights.  It  was  afterwards  altered  and  amended  (if  it  can  be  called 
an  amendment)  to  the  form  in  which  it  stands  in  the  system  now 
published,  and  as  inferior  continental,  and  not  state  courts,  are 
originally  to  decide  on  those  questions,  it  is  now  worse  than  useless, 
for  being  so  altered  as  to  render  the  treaties  and  laws  made  under 
the  federal  government  superior  to  our  constitution,  if  the  system 
is  adopted  it  will  amount  to  a  total  and  unconditional  surrender  to 
that  government,  by  the  citizens  of  this  state,  of  every  right  and 
privilege  secured  to  them  by  our  constitution,  and  an  express  compact 
and  stipulation  with  the  general  government  that  it  may,  at  its 
discretion,  make  laws  in  direct  violation  of  those  rights.  But  on 
this  subject  I  shall  enlarge  in  a  future  number. 

That  I  'voted  an  appeal  should  lay  to  the  supreme  judiciary 
of  the  United  States,  for  the  correction  of  all  errors  both  in  law 
and  fact,'  in  rendering  judgment  is  most  true,  and  it  is  equally  true 
that  if  it  had  been  so  ordained  by  the  Constitution,  the  supreme 
judiciary  would  only  have  had  an  appellate  jurisdiction,  of  the 
same  nature  with  that  possessed  by  our  high  court  of  appeals,  and 
could  not  in  any  respect  intermeddle  with  any  fact  decided  by  a 
jury;  but  as  the  clause  now  stands,  an  appeal  being  given  in  gen- 
eral terms  from  the  inferior  courts,  both  as  to  law  and  fact,  it 
not  only  doth,  but  is  avowedly  intended,  to  give  a  power  very 
di£Ferent  from  what  our  court  of  appeals,  or  any  court  of  appeals 
in  the  United  States  or  in  England  enjoys,  a  power  of  the  most 
dangerous  and  alarming  nature,  that  of  setting  at  nought  the 
verdict  of  a  jury,  and   having  the  same  facts  which   they  had 


288      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

determined,  without  any  regard  or  respect  to  their  determination, 
examined  and  ultimately  decided  by  the  judges  themselves,  and 
that  by  judges  immediately  appointed  by  the  government.  But 
the  Landholder  also  says  that  'I  agreed  to  the  clause  that  declares 
nine  states  to  be  sufficient  to  put  the  government  in  motion.'  I 
cannot  take  to  myself  the  merit  even  of  this  without  too  great  a 
sacrifice  of  truth.  It  was  proposed  that  if  seven  states  agreed  that 
should  be  sufficient;  by  a  rule  of  Convention  in  filling  up  blanks, 
if  different  numbers  were  mentioned,  the  question  was  always  to 
be  taken  on  the  highest.  It  was  my  opinion,  that  to  agree  upon 
a  ratification  of  the  constitution  by  any  less  number  than  the 
whole  thirteen  states,  is  so  directly  repugnant  to  our  present  articles 
of  confederation,  and  the  mode  therein  prescribed  for  their  altera- 
tion, and  such  a  violation  of  the  compact  which  the  states,  in  the 
most  solemn  manner,  have  entered  into  with  each  other,  that  those 
who  could  advocate  a  contrary  proposition,  ought  never  to  be  con- 
fided in,  and  entrusted  in  public  life.  I  availed  myself  of  this  rule, 
and  had  the  question  taken  on  thirteen,  which  was  rejected.  Twelve, 
eleven,  ten  and  nine  were  proposed  in  succession ;  the  last  was  adopted 
by  a  majority  of  the  members.  I  voted  successively  for  each  of 
these  members,  to  prevent  a  less  number  being  agreed  on.  Had 
nine  not  been  adopted,  I  should  on  the  same  principle  have  voted 
for  eight.  But  so  far  was  I  from  giving  my  approbation  that  the 
assent  of  a  less  number  of  states  than  thirteen  should  be  sufficient 
to  put  the  government  in  motion,  that  I  most  explicitly  expressed 
my  sentiments  to  the  contrary,  and  always  intended,  had  I  been 
present  when  the  ultimate  vote  was  taken  on  the  constitution,  to 
have  given  it  my  decided  negative,  accompanied  with  a  solemn 
protest  against  it,  assigning  this  reason  among  others  for  my  dissent. 
Thus,  my  fellow  citizens,  that  candour  with  which  I  have  conducted 
myself  through  the  whole  of  this  business  obliges  me,  however 
reluctantly,  and  however  'mortifying  it  may  be  to  my  vanity,*  to 
disavow  all  *  those  greater  positive  virtues'  which  the  Landholder 
has  so  obligingly  attributed  to  me  in  Convention,  and  which  he  was 
so  desirous  of  conferring  upon  me  as  to  consider  the  guilt  of  mis- 
representation and  falsehood  but  a  trifling  sacrifice  for  that  purpose, 
and  to  increase  my  mortification,  you  will  find  I  am  equally  compelled 
to  yield  up  every  pretence  even  to  those  of  a  negative  nature, 
which  a  regard  to  justice  has,  as  he  says,  obliged  him  not  to  omit. 
These  consist,  as  he  tells  us,  in  giving  my  entire  approbation  to  the 
system  as  to  those  parts  which  are  said  to  endanger  a  trial  by  jury, 
and  as  to  its  want  of  a  bill  of  rights,  and  in  having  too  much  candour 
there  to  signify  that  I  thought  it  deficient  in  either  of  these  respects. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXCII  289 

But  how,  I  pray,  can  the  Landholder  be  certain  that  I  deserve  this 
encomium?  Is  it  not  possible,  as  I  so  frequently  exhausted  the 
politeness  of  the  Convention,  that  some  of  those  marks  of  fatigue 
and  disgust,  with  which  he  intimates  I  was  mortified  as  oft  as  I 
attempted  to  speak,  might  at  that  time  have  taken  place,  and  have 
been  of  such  a  nature  as  to  attract  his  attention;  or,  perhaps,  as 
the  Convention  was  prepared  to  slumber  whenever  I  rose,  the  Land- 
holder, among  others,  might  have  sunk  into  sleep,  and  at  that  very 
moment  might  have  been  feasting  his  imagination  with  the  comple- 
tion of  his  ambitious  views,  and  dreams  of  future  greatness.  But 
supposing  I  never  did  declare  in  Convention  that  I  thought  the  sys- 
tem defective  in  those  essential  points,  will  it  amount  to  a  positive 
proof  that  I  approved  the  system  in  those  respects,  or  that  I  culpably 
neglected  an  indispensable  duty?  Is  it  not  possible,  whatever  might 
have  been  my  insolence  and  assurance  when  I  first  took  my  seat,  and 
however  fond  I  might  be  at  that  time  of  obtruding  my  sentiments, 
that  the  many  rebuffs  with  which  I  met,  the  repeated  mortifications 
I  experienced,  the  marks  of  fatigue  and  disgust  with  which  my  eyes 
were  sure  to  be  assailed  wherever  I  turned  them  —  one  gaping  here, 
another  yawning  there,  a  third  slumbering  in  this  place,  and  a  fourth 
snoring  in  that  —  might  so  eflFectually  have  put  to  flight  all  my 
original  arrogance,  that,  as  we  are  apt  to  run  into  extremes,  having 
at  length  become  convinced  of  my  comparative  nothingness,  in  so 
august  an  assembly  and  one  in  which  the  science  of  government  was 
so  perfectly  understood,  I  might  sink  into  such  a  state  of  modesty 
and  diffidence  as  not  to  be  able  to  muster  up  resolution  enough  to 
break  the  seal  of  silence  and  open  my  lips  even  after  the  rays  of 
light  had  begun  to  penetrate  my  understanding,  and  in  some  measure 
to  chase  away  those  clouds  of  error  and  ignorance  in  which  it  was 
enveloped  on  my  first  arrival?  Perhaps  had  I  been  treated  with  a 
more  forbearing  indulgence  while  committing  those  memorable 
blunders,  for  a  want  of  a  sufficient  knowledge  in  the  science  of  govern- 
ment, I  might,  after  the  rays  of  light  had  illuminated  my  mind,  have 
rendered  my  country  much  more  important  services,  and  not  only 
assisted  in  raising  some  of  the  pillars,  but  have  furnished  the  edifice 
with  a  new  roof  of  my  own  construction,  rather  better  calculated 
for  the  convenience  and  security  of  those  who  might  wish  to  take 
shelter  beneath  it,  than  that  which  it  at  present  enjoys.  Or  even 
admitting  I  was  not  mortified,  as  I  certainly  ought  to  have  been, 
from  the  Landholder's  account  of  the  matter,  into  a  total  loss  of 
speech,  was  it  in  me,  who  considered  the  system,  for  a  variety  of 
reasons,  absolutely  inconsistent  with  your  political  welfare  and  hap- 
piness, a  culpable  neglect  of  duty  in  not  endeavouring,  and  that 


290      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

against  every  chance  of  success,  to  remove  one  or  two  defects,  when 
I  had  before  ineffectually  endeavoured  to  clear  it  of  the  others,  which 
therefore,  I  knew  must  remain?  But  to  be  serious,  as  to  what  re- 
lates to  the  appellate  jurisdiction  in  the  extent  given  by  the  system 
proposed,  I  am  positive  there  were  objections  made  to  it,  and  as  far 
as  my  memory  will  serve  me,  I  think  I  was  in  the  number  of  those 
who  actually  objected;  but  I  am  sure  that  the  objections  met  with 
my  approbation.  With  respect  to  a  bill  of  rights,  had  the  govern- 
ment been  formed  upon  principles  truly  federal,  as  I  wished  it, 
legislating  over  and  acting  upon  the  states  only  in  their  collective 
or  political  capacity,  and  not  on  individuals,  there  would  have  been 
no  need  of  a  bill  of  rights,  as  far  as  related  to  the  rights  of  individuals, 
but  only  as  to  the  rights  of  states.  But  the  proposed  constitution 
being  intended  and  empowered  to  act  not  only  on  states,  but  also 
immediately  on  individuals,  it  renders  a  recognition  and  a  stipula- 
tion in  favour  of  the  rights  both  of  states  and  of  men,  not  only  proper, 
but  in  my  opinion  absolutely  necessary.  I  endeavoured  to  obtain 
a  restraint  on  the  powers  of  the  general  government,  as  to  standing 
armies,  but  it  was  rejected.  It  was  my  wish  that  the  general  govern- 
ment should  not  have  the  power  of  suspending  the  privilege  of  the 
writ  of  habeas  corpus,  as  it  appears  to  me  altogether  unnecessary, 
and  that  the  power  given  to  it  may  and  will  be  used  as  a  dangerous 
engine  of  oppression,  but  I  could  not  succeed.  An  honorable  member 
from  South  Carolina  most  anxiously  sought  to  have  a  clause  inserted 
securing  the  liberty  of  the  Press,  and  repeatedly  brought  this  sub- 
ject before  the  Convention,  but  could  not  obtain  it.  I  am  almost 
positive  he  made  the  same  attempt  to  have  a  stipulation  in  favour 
of  liberty  of  conscience,  but  in  vain.  The  more  the  system  advanced 
the  more  was  I  impressed  with  the  necessity  of  not  merely  attempt- 
ing to  secure  a  few  rights,  but  of  digesting  and  forming  a  complete 
bill  of  rights,  including  those  of  states  and  of  individuals,  which 
should  be  assented  to,  and  prefixed  to  the  Constitution,  to  serve 
as  a  barrier  between  the  general  government  and  the  respective 
states  and  their  citizens;  because  the  more  the  system  advanced  the 
more  clearly  it  appeared  to  me  that  the  framers  of  it  did  not  consider 
that  either  states  or  men  had  any  rights  at  all,  or  that  they  meant 
to  secure  the  enjoyment  of  any  to  either  the  one  or  the  other;  accord- 
ingly, I  devoted  a  part  of  my  time  to  the  actually  preparing  and 
draughting  such  a  bill  of  rights,  and  had  it  in  readiness  before  I 
left  the  Convention,  to  have  laid  it  before  a  committee.  I  con- 
versed with  several  members  on  the  subject;  they  agreed  with  me 
on  the  propriety  of  the  measure,  but  at  the  same  time  expressed  their 
sentiments  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  procure  its  adoption  if 


APPENDIX  A,    CXCII  29 1 

attempted.  A  very  few  days  before  I  left  the  Convention,  I  shewed 
to  an  honorable  member  sitting  by  me  a  proposition,  which  I  then 
had  in  my  hand,  couched  in  the  following  words;  'Resolved  that  a 
committee  be  appointed  to  prepare  and  report  a  bill  of  rights,  to  be 
prefixed  to  the  proposed  Constitution,'  and  I  then  would  instantly 
have  moved  for  the  appointment  of  a  committee  for  that  purpose, 
if  he  would  have  agreed  to  second  the  motion,  to  do  which  he  hesi- 
tated, not  as  I  understand  from  any  objection  to  the  measure,  but 
from  a  conviction  in  his  own  mind  that  the  motion  would  be  in  vain. 
Thus  my  fellow  citizens,  you  see  that  so  far  from  having  no 
objections  to  the  system  on  this  account,  while  I  was  at  Convention, 
I  not  only  then  thought  a  bill  of  rights  necessary,  but  I  took  some 
pains  to  have  the  subject  brought  forward,  which  would  have  been 
done,  had  it  not  been  for  the  difficulties  I  have  stated.  At  the 
same  time  I  declare  that  when  I  drew  up  the  motion,  and  was  about 
to  have  proposed  it  to  the  Convention,  I  had  not  the  most  distant 
hope  it  would  meet  with  success.  The  rejection  of  the  clauses 
attempted  in  favour  of  particular  rights,  and  to  check  and  restrain 
the  dangerous  and  exorbitant  powers  of  the  general  government 
from  being  abused,  had  sufficiently  taught  me  what  to  expect.  And 
from  the  best  judgment  I  could  form  while  in  Convention,  I  then 
was,  and  yet  remained,  decidedly  of  the  opinion  that  ambition  and 
interest  had  so  far  blinded  the  understanding  of  some  of  the  prin- 
cipal framers  of  the  Constitution,  that  while  they  were  labouring 
to  erect  a  fabrick  by  which  they  themselves  might  be  exalted  and 
benefited,  they  were  rendered  insensible  to  the  sacrifice  of  the  free- 
dom and  happiness  of  the  states  and  their  citizens,  which  must, 
inevitably  be  the  consequence.  I  most  sacredly  believe  their  object 
is  the  total  abolition  and  destruction  of  all  state  governments,  and 
the  erection  on  their  ruins  of  one  great  and  extensive  empire,  calcu- 
lated to  aggrandize  and  elevate  its  rulers  and  chief  officers  far  above 
the  common  herd  of  mankind,  to  enrich  them  with  wealth,  and  to 
encircle  them  with  honours  and  glory,  and  which  according  to  my 
judgment  on  the  maturest  reflection,  must  inevitably  be  attended 
with  the  most  humiliating  and  abject  slavery  of  their  fellow  citizens, 
by  the  sweat  of  whose  brows,  and  by  the  toil  of  whose  bodies,  it  can 
only  be  effected.  And  so  anxious  were  its  zealous  promoters  to 
hasten  to  a  birth  this  misshapened  heterogenous  monster  of  ambition 
and  interest,  that,  for  some  time  before  the  Convention  rose,  upon 
the  least  attempt  to  alter  its  form,  or  modify  its  powers,  the  most 
fretful  impatience  was  shown,  such  as  would  not  have  done  much 
honour  to  a  State  Assembly,  had  they  been  sitting  as  long  a  time, 
and  their  treasury  empty;  while  it  was  repeatedly  urged  on  the  con- 


29^     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

trary,  but  urged  in  vain,  that  in  so  momentous  an  undertaking,  in 
forming  a  system  for  such  an  extensive  continent,  on  which  the  politi- 
cal happiness  of  so  many  millions,  even  to  the  latest  ages,  may  depend, 
no  time  could  be  too  long  —  no  thoughts  and  reflections  too  great 
—  and  that  if  by  continuing  six  months,  or  even  as  many  years,  we 
could  free  the  system  from  all  its  errors  and  defects,  it  would  be  the 
best  use  to  which  we  could  possibly  devote  our  time.  Thus  my 
fellow  citizens  am  I  under  necessity  of  resigning  again  into  the  hands 
of  the  Landholder,  all  those  virtues  both  of  a  positive  and  negative 
kind,  which  from  an  excess  of  goodness  he  bestowed  upon  me,  and 
give  him  my  full  permission  to  dispose  of  them  hereafter  in  favour 
of  some  other  person,  who  may  be  more  deserving,  and  to  whom  they 
will  be  more  acceptable:  at  the  same  time,  I  must  frankly  acknowl- 
edge, however  it  may  operate  as  a  proof  of  my  dullness  and  stupidity, 
that  the  "ignorance  in  the  science  of  government"  under  which  I 
laboured  at  first  was  not  removed  by  more  than  two  months  close 
application  under  those  august  and  enlightened  masters  of  the  science 
with  which  the  Convention  abounded,  nor  was  I  able  to  discover 
during  that  time,  either  by  my  own  researches,  or  by  any  light  bor- 
rowed from  those  luminaries,  anything  in  the  history  of  mankind  or 
in  the  sentiments  of  those  who  have  favoured  the  world  with  their 
ideas  on  government,  to  warrant  or  countenance  the  motley  mixture 
of  a  system  proposed:  a  system  which  is  an  innovation  in  govern- 
ment of  the  most  extraordinary  kind;  a  system  neither  wholly  fed- 
eral, nor  wholly  national  —  but  a  strange  hotch-potch  of  both  — 
just  so  much  federal  in  appearance  as  to  give  its  advocates  in  some 
measure,  an  opportunity  of  passing  it  as  such  upon  the  unsuspecting 
multitude,  before  they  had  time  and  opportunity  to  examine  it, 
and  yet  so  predominantly  national  as  to  put  it  in  the  power  of  its 
movers,  whenever  the  machine  shall  be  set  agoing,  to  strike  out  every 
part  that  has  the  appearance  of  being  federal,  and  to  render  it  wholly 
and  entirely  a  national  government:  And  if  the  framing  and  approv- 
ing the  Constitution  now  offered  to  our  acceptance,  is  a  proof  of 
knowledge  in  the  science  of  government,  I  not  only  admit,  but  I 
glory  in  my  ignorance;  and  if  my  rising  to  speak  had  such  a  som- 
nific influence  on  the  Convention  as  the  Landholder  represents,  I 
have  no  doubt  the  time  will  come,  should  this  system  be  adopted, 
when  my  countrymen  will  ardently  wish  I  had  never  left  the  Con- 
vention, but  remained  there  to  the  last,  daily  administering  to  my 
associates  the  salutary  opiate.  Happy,  thrice  happy,  would  it 
have  been  for  my  country,  if  the  whole  of  that  time  had  been  devoted 
to  sleep,  or  been  a  blank  in  our  lives,  rather  than  employed  in  forg- 
ing its  chains.    As  I  fully  intended  to  have  returned  to  the  Conven- 


APPENDIX  A,   CXCII  293 

tion  before  the  completion  of  its  business,  my  colleagues  very  probably 
mighty  and  were  certainly  well  warranted  to,  give  that  information 
the  Landholder  mentions;  but  whether  the  Convention  was  led  to 
conclude  that  I  ^  would  have  honoured  the  Constitution  with  my 
signature  had  not  indispensable  business  called  me  away/  may  be 
easily  determined  after  stating  a  few  facts.  The  Landholder  admits 
I  was  at  first  against  the  system  —  when  the  compromise  took  place 
on  the  subject  of  representation,  I  in  the  most  explicit  manner  de- 
clared in  Convention,  that  though  I  had  concurred  in  the  report,  so 
far  as  to  consent  to  proceed  upon  it  that  we  might  see  what  kind 
of  a  system  might  be  formed,  yet  I  disclaimed  every  idea  of  being 
bound  to  give  it  my  assent,  but  reserved  to  myself  the  full  liberty 
of  finally  giving  it  my  negative,  if  it  appeared  to  me  inconsistent 
with  the  happiness  of  my  country.  In  a  desultory  conversation 
which  long  after  took  place  in  Convention,  one  morning  before  our 
honourable  president  took  the  chair,  he  was  observing  how  unhappy 
it  would  be  should  there  be  such  a  diversity  of  sentiment  as  to  cause 
any  of  the  members  to  oppose  the  system  when  they  returned  to 
their  states;  on  that  occasion  I  replied  that  I  was  confident  no  state 
in  the  union  would  more  readily  accede  to  a  proper  system  of  govern- 
ment than  Maryland,  but  that  the  system  under  consideration  was 
of  such  a  nature,  that  I  never  could  recommend  it  for  acceptance; 
that  I  thought  the  state  never  ought  to  adopt  it,  and  expressed  my 
firm  belief  that  it  never  would. 

An  honourable  member  from  Pennsylvania  objected  against  that 
part  of  the  sixth  article  which  requires  an  oath  to  be  taken  by  the 
persons  there  mentioned,  in  support  of  the  constitution,  observing 
(as  he  justly  might  from  the  conduct  the  convention  was  then  pur- 
suing) how  little  such  oaths  were  regarded.  I  immediately  joined 
in  the  objection,  but  declared  my  reason  to  be,  that  I  thought  it 
such  a  constitution  as  no  friend  of  his  country  ought  to  bind  himself 
to  support.  And  not  more  than  two  days  before  I  left  Philadelphia, 
another  honourable  member  from  the  same  state  urged  most  strenu- 
ously that  the  Convention  ought  to  hasten  their  deliberations  to  a 
conclusion,  assigning  as  a  reason  that  the  Assembly  of  Pennsylvania 
was  just  then  about  to  meet,  and  that  it  would  be  of  the  greatest 
importance  to  bring  the  system  before  that  session  of  the  legislature,  in 
order  that  a  Convention  of  the  State  might  be  immediately  called 
to  ratify  it,  before  the  enemies  of  the  system  should  have  an  oppor- 
tunity of  making  the  people  acquainted  with  their  objections,  at  the 
same  time  declaring  that  if  the  matter  should  be  delayed  and  the 
people  have  time  to  hear  the  variety  of  objections  which  would  be 
made  to  it  by  its  opposers,  he  thought  it  doubtful  whether  that 


294     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

State  or  any  other  state  in  the  union  would  adopt  it.  As  soon  as 
the  honourable  member  took  his  seat,  I  rose  and  observed,  that 
I  was  precisely  of  the  same  opinion,  that  the  people  of  America  never 
would,  nor  did  I  think  they  ought  to,  adopt  the  system,  if  they  had 
time  to  consider  and  understand  it;  whereas  a  proneness  for  novelty 
and  change  —  a  conviction  that  some  alteration  was  necessary,  and 
a  confidence  in  the  members  who  composed  the  Convention  —  might 
possibly  procure  its  adoption,  if  brought  hastily  before  them,  but 
that  these  sentiments  induced  me  to  wish  that  a  very  different  line 
of  conduct  should  be  pursued  from  that  recommended  by  the  hon- 
ourable member.  I  wished  the  people  to  have  every  opportunity 
of  information,  as  I  thought  it  much  preferable  that  a  bad  system 
should  be  rejected  at  first,  than  hastily  adopted  and  afterwards  be 
unavailingly  repented  of.  If  these  were  instances  of  my  *'high 
approbation,"  I  gave  them  in  abundance  as  all  the  G>nvention  can 
testify,  and  continued  so  to  do  till  I  left  them.  That  I  expressed 
great  regret  at  being  obliged  to  leave  Philadelphia,  and  a  fixed  de- 
termination to  return  if  possible  before  the  Convention  rose,  is  cer- 
tain. That  I  might  declare  that  I  had  rather  lose  an  hundred  guineas 
than  not  to  be  there  at  the  close  of  the  business  is  very  probable  — 
and  it  is  possible  that  some  who  heard  me  say  this,  not  knowing  my 
reasons,  which  could  not  be  expressed  without  a  breach  of  that 
secrecy  to  which  we  were  enjoined,  might  erroneously  have  concluded 
that  my  motive  was  the  gratification  of  vanity,  in  having  my  name 
enrolled  with  those  of  a  Franklin  and  a  Washington.  As  to  the 
first,  I  cordially  join  in  the  tribute  of  praise  so  justly  paid  to  the 
enlightened  philosopher  and  statesman,  while  the  polite,  friendly 
and  affectionate  treatment  myself  and  family  received  from  that 
venerable  sage  and  the  worthy  family  in  which  he  is  embosomed, 
will  ever  endear  him  to  my  heart.  The  name  of  Washington  is  far 
above  my  praise.  I  would  to  Heaven  that  on  this  occasion  one  more 
wreath  had  been  added  to  the  number  of  those  which  are  twined 
around  his  amiable  brow  —  that  those  with  which  it  is  already 
surrounded  may  flourish  with  immortal  verdure,  nor  wither  or  fade 
till  time  shall  be  no  more,  is  my  fervent  prayer,  and  may  that  glory 
which  encircles  his  head  ever  shine  with  undiminished  rays.  To 
find  myself  under  the  necessity  of  opposing  such  illustrious  char- 
acters, whom  I  venerated  and  loved,  filled  me  with  regret;  but  view- 
ing the  system  in  the  light  I  then  did,  and  yet  do  view  it,  to  have 
hesitated  would  have  been  criminal;  complaisance  would  have  been 
guilt.  If  it  was  the  idea  of  my  state  that  whatever  a  Washington 
or  Franklin  approved,  was  to  be  blindly  adopted,  she  ought  to  have 
spared  herself  the  expence  of  sending  any  members  to  the  Conven- 


APPENDIX  A,    CXCIII  295 

tion,  or  to  have  instructed  them  implicitly  to  follow  where  they  led 
the  way.  It  was  not  to  have  my  ^name  enrolled  with  the  other 
labourers,'  that  I  wished  to  return  to  Philadelphia  —  that  sacrifice 
which  I  must  have  made  of  my  principles  by  putting  my  name  to 
the  Constitution,  could  not  have  been  effaced  by  any  derivative 
lustre  it  could  possibly  receive  from  the  bright  constellation  with 
which  it  would  have  been  surrounded.  My  object  was  in  truth 
the  very  reverse;  as  I  had  uniformly  opposed  the  system  in  its  prog- 
ress, I  wished  to  have  been  present  at  the  conclusion,  to  have  then 
given  it  my  solemn  negative,  which  I  certainly  should  have  done, 
even  had  I  stood  single  and  alone,  being  perfectly  willing  to  leave 
it  to  the  cool  and  impartial  investigation  both  of  the  present  and 
of  future  ages  to  decide  who  best  understood  the  science  of  govern- 
ment—  who  best  knew  the  rights  of  men  and  of  states,  who  best 
consulted  the  true  interest  of  America,  and  who  most  faithfully 
discharged  the  trust  reposed  in  them,  those  who  agreed  to  or  those 
who  opposed  the  new  Constitution  —  and  so  fully  have  I  made  up 
my  own  mind  on  this  subject,  that  as  long  as  the  history  of  mankind 
shall  record  the  appointment  of  the  late  Convention,  and  the  sys- 
tem which  has  been  proposed  by  them,  it  is  my  highest  ambition 
that  my  name  may  also  be  recorded  as  one  who  considered  the  system 
injurious  to  my  country,  and  as  such  opposed  it. 


CXCIII.    Luther  Martin's  Letter  to  the  Citizens  of  Mary- 
land.^ 

Baltimore,  March  25,  1788. 
Those  who  would  wish  you  to  believe  that  the  faults  in  the  sys- 
tem proposed  are  wholly  or  principally  owing  to  the  difference  of 
state  interests,  and  proceed  from  that  cause,  are  either  imposed  upon 
themselves,  or  mean  to  impose  upon  you.  The  principal  questions, 
in  which  the  state  interests  had  any  material  effect,  were  those  which 
related  to  representation,  and  the  number  in  each  branch  of  the 
legislature,  whose  concurrence  should  be  necessary  for  passing  navi- 
gation acts,  or  making  commercial  regulations.  But  what  state  is 
there  in  the  union  whose  interest  would  prompt  it  to  give  the  general 
government  the  extensive  and  unlimited  powers  it  possesses  in  the 
executive,  legislative  and  judicial  departments,  together  with  the 
powers  over  the  militia,  and  the  liberty  of  establishing  a  standing 
army  without  any  restriction?  What  state  in  the  union  considers 
it  advantageous  to  its  interest  that  the  President  should  be  re-eligible 

*  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  Constitution,  pp.  374-375;  first  printed  in  the  Maryland 
Journal,  March  28,  1788. 


296      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

—  the  members  of  both  houses  appointable  to  offices  —  the  judges 
capable  of  holding  other  offices  at  the  will  and  pleasure  of  the  govern- 
ment, and  that  there  should  be  no  real  responsibility  either  in  the 
President  or  in  the  members  of  either  branch  of  the  Legislature?  Or 
what  state  is  there  that  would  have  been  averse  to  a  bill  of  rights, 
or  that  would  have  wished  for  the  destruction  of  jury  trial  in  a  great 
variety  of  cases,  and  in  a  particular  manner  in  every  case  without 
exception  where  the  government  itself  is  interested?  These  parts 
of  the  system,  so  far  from  promoting  the  interest  of  any  state,  or 
states,  have  an  immediate  tendency  to  annihilate  all  the  state  govern- 
ments indiscriminately,  and  to  subvert  their  rights  and  the  rights 
of  their  citizens.  To  oppose  these,  and  to  procure  their  alteration, 
is  equally  the  interest  of  every  state  in  the  union.  The  introduction 
of  these  parts  of  the  system  must  not  be  attributed  to  the  jarring 
interests  of  states,  but  to  a  very  different  source,  the  pride,  the  am- 
bition and  the  interest  of  individuals. 


CXCIV.   George  Nicholas  to  James  Madison.* 

Charlottesville,  April  sth.  88. 
You  know  better  than  I  do  what  was  the  conduct  of  Mr.  Mason 
at  the  convention,  immediately  after  his  return,  he  declared,  that 
notwithstanding  his  objections  to  particular  parts  of  the  plan,  he 
would  take  it  as  it  was  rather  than  lose  it  altogether;  since  that  I 
have  reason  to  believe  his  sentiments  are  much  changed  which  I 
attribute  to  two  causes:  first  the  irritation  he  feels  from  the  hard 
things  that  have  been  said  of  him,  and  secondly  to  a  vain  opinion 
he  entertains  (which  has  industriously  been  supported  by  some 
particular  characters)  that  he  has  influence  enough  to  dictate  a 
constitution  to  Virginia,  and  through  her  to  the  rest  of  the  Union. 


CXCV.    Benjamin  Franklin  to  the   Editor  of  the  Federal 

Gazette.^ 

To  conclude,  I  beg  I  may  not  be  understood  to  infer,  that  our 
general  Convention  was  divinely  inspired  when  it  form'd  the  new 
federal  Constitution,  merely  because  that  Constitution  has  been 
unreasonably  and  vehemently  opposed;  yet  I  must  own  I  have  so 
much  Faith  in  the  general  Government  of  the  World  by  Providence, 
that  I  can  hardly  conceive  a  Transaction  of  such  momentous  Impor- 
tance to  the  Welfare  of  Millions  now  existing,  and  to  exist  in  the 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  552. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  567-571;  printed  in  the  Federal 
Gazetu,  April  8,  1788. 


APPENDIX   A,    CXCVI  297 

Posterity  of  a  great  Nation,  should  be  suffered  to  pass  without  being 
in  some  degree  influenced,  guided  and  governed  by  that  omnipotent, 
omnipresent  &  beneficent  Ruler,  in  whom  all  inferior  Spirits  live  & 
move  and  have  their  Being.  — 


CXCVI.   James  Madison  to  Edmund  Randolph.^ 

Orange  April  loth.  1788 
I  do  not  know  of  anything  in  the  new  Constitution  that  can 
change  the  obligations  of  the  public  with  regard  to  the  old  money. 
The  principle  on  which  it  is  to  be  settled,  seems  to  be  equally  in  the 
power  of  that  as  of  the  existing  one.  The  claim  of  the  Indiana  Com- 
pany cannot  I  should  suppose  be  any  more  validated  by  the  new 
System,  than  that  of  all  the  creditors  and  others  who  have  been  ag- 
grieved by  unjust  laws.  You  do  not  mention  what  part  of  the  Con- 
stitution, could  give  colour  to  such  a  doctrine.  The  condemnation 
of  retrospective  laws,  if  that  be  the  part,  does  not  appear  to  me,  to 
admit  on  any  principle  of  such  a  retrospective  construction.  As  to  the 
religious  test,  I  should  conceive  that  it  can  imply  at  most  nothing  more 
than  that  without  that  exception,  a  power  would  have  been  given  to 
impose  an  oath  involving  a  religious  test  as  a  qualification  for  office. 
The  constitution  of  necessary  offices  being  given  to  the  Congress,  the 
proper  qualifications  seem  to  be  evidently  involved.  I  think  too 
there  are  several  other  satisfactory  points  of  view  in  which  the  ex- 
ception might  be  placed.        

CXCVII.    Benjamin  Franklin  to  M.  Le  Veillard.* 

April  22.  1788. 
It  is  very  possible,  as  you  suppose,  that  all  the  Articles  of  the 
propos'd  new  Government  will  not  remain  unchanged  after  the  first 
meeting  of  the  Congress.  I  am  of  Opinion  with  You,  that  the  two 
Chambers  where  not  necessary,  and  I  disliked  some  other  Articles 
that  are  in,  and  wish'd  for  some  that  are  not  in  the  propos'd  Plan :  — 
I  nevertheless  hope  it  may  be  adopted,  though  I  shall  have  nothing 
to  do  with  the  execution  of  it,  being  determined  to  quit  all  public 
Business  with  my  present  Employment,     .  .  . 


CXCVIII.    George  Washington  to  La  Fayette.* 

Mount  Vernon  April  28th.  1788 
For  example:    there  was  not  a  member  of  the  convention,  I 

*  Hunt,  Writings  of  James  Madison,  V,  118. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  584. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  599-602. 


298      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

believe,  who  had  the  least  objection  to  what  is  contended  for  by  the 
Advocates  for  a  Bill  of  Rights  and  Tryal  by  Jury.  The  first,  where 
the  people  evidently  retained  every  thing  which  they  did  not  in 
express  terms  give  up,  was  considered  nugatory  as  you  will  find  to 
have  been  more  fully  explained  by  Mr.  Wilson  and  others: — And 
as  to  the  second,  it  was  only  the  difficulty  of  establishing  a  mode 
which  should  not  interfere  with  the  fixed  modes  of  any  of  the 
States,  that  induced  the  Convention  to  leave  it,  as  a  matter  of 
future  adjustment. 

There  are  other  points  on  which  opinions  would  be  more  likely 
to  vary.  As  for  instance,  on  the  ineligibility  of  the  same  person  for 
President,  after  he  should  have  served  a  certain  course  of  years. 
Guarded  so  effectually  as  the  proposed  Constitution  is,  in  respect 
to  the  prevention  of  bribery  and  undue  influence  in  the  choice  of 
President:  I  confess,  I  differ  widely  myself  from  Mr  Jefferson  and 
you,  as  to  the  necessity  of  expediency  of  rotation  in  that  appoint- 
ment. The  matter  was  fairly  discussed  in  the  Convention,  &  to  my 
full  convictions;  though  I  cannot  have  time  or  room  to  sum  up  the 
arguments  in  this  letter.  There  cannot,  in  my  judgment,  be  the 
least  danger  that  the  President  will  by  any  practicable  intrigue  ever 
be  able  to  continue  himself  one  moment  in  ofifice,  much  less  per- 
petuate himself  in  it  —  but  in  the  last  stage  of  corrupted  morals 
and  political  depravity:  and  even  then  there  is  as  much  danger  that 
any  other  species  of  domination  would  prevail.  Though,  when  a 
people  shall  have  become  incapable  of  governing  themselves  and  fit 
for  a  master,  it  is  of  little  consequence  from  what  quarter  he  comes. 


CXCIX.    [Gerry:]  Reply  to  a  Landholder,  II.* 

In  a  late  address  to  the  honorable  Luther  Martin,  Esquire,  the 
Landholder  has  asserted,  that  Mr.  Gerry  "uniformly  opposed  Mr. 
Martin's  principles,"  but  this  is  a  circumstance  wholly  unknown  to 
Mr.  Gerry,  until  he  was  informed  of  it  by  the  Connecticut  Land 
holder;  indeed  Mr.  Gerry  from  the  first  acquaintance  with  Mr. 
Martin,  has  "uniformly  had  a  friendship  for  him." 

This  writer  has  also  asserted,  "that  the  day  Mr.  Martin  took  his 
seat  in  convention,  without  requesting  information,  or  to  be  let  into 
the  reasons  of  the  adoption  of  what  he  might  ^ot  approve,  he  opened 
against  them  in  a  speech  which  held  during  two  days."  But  the 
facts  are,  that  Mr.  Martin  had  been  a  considerable  time  in  conven- 

*  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  the  ConstitiUion,  129-133,  where  it  is  taken  from  the  New 
York  Journal,  April  30,  1788.  For  the  origin  of  this  controversy  sec  CLVII.  It  is 
continued  in  CLXII,  CLXXV,  CLXXXIX-CXCII. 


APPENDIX  A,    CXCIX  299 

tion  before  he  spoke;  that  when  he  entered  into  the  debates  he  ap- 
peared not  to  need  "information,"  as  he  was  fully  possessed  of  the 
subject;  and  that  his  speech,  if  published,  would  do  him  great  honor. 

Another  assertion  of  this  famous  writer  is,  that  Mr.  Gerry  in 
"a  sarcastical  reply,  admired  the  strength  of  Mr.  Martin's  lungs, 
and  his  profound  knowledge  in  the  first  principles  of  government;" 
that  "this  reply"  "left  him  a  prey  to  the  most  humiliating  reflec- 
tions; but  these  did  not  teach  him  to  bound  his  future  speeches  by 
the  lines  of  moderation;  for  the  very  next  day  he  exhibited,  without 
a  blush,  another  specimen  of  eternal  volubility."  This  is  so  remote 
from  the  truth,  that  no  such  reply  was  made  by  Mr.  Gerry  to  Mr. 
Martin,  or  to  any  member  of  the  convention;  on  the  contrary,  Mr. 
Martin,  on  the  first  day  he  spoke,  about  the  time  of  adjournment, 
signified  to  the  convention  that  the  heat  of  the  season,  and  his  indis- 
position prevented  his  proceeding,  and  the  house  adjourned  without 
further  debate,  or  a  reply  to  Mr.  Martin  from  any  member  whatever. 

Again,  the  Landholder  has  asserted  that  Mr.  Martin  voted  "an 
appeal  should  lay  to  the  supreme  judiciary  of  the  United  States  for 
the  correction  of  all  errors  both  in  law  and  fact,"  and  "agreed  to 
the  clause  that  declares  nine  states  to  be  sufficient  to  put  the  govern- 
ment in  motion:"  and  in  a  note  says,  "Mr.  Gerry  agreed  with  Mr. 
Martin  on  these  questions."  Whether  there  is  any  truth  in  the  asser- 
tions as  they  relate  to  Mr.  Martin,  he  can  best  determine;  but  as 
they  respect  Mr.  Gerry,  they  reverse  the  facts;  for  he  not' only  voted 
against  the  first  proposition  (which  is  not  stated  by  the  Landholder, 
with  the  accuracy  requisite  for  a  writer  on  government)  but  con- 
tended for  jury  trials  in  civil  cases,  and  declared  his  opinion,  that 
a  federal  judiciary  with  the  powers  above  mentioned,  would  be  as 
oppressive  and  dangerous,  as  the  establishment  of  a  star-chamber, 
and  as  to  the  clause  that  "declares  nine  states  to  be  sufficient  to  put 
the  government  in  motion,"  Mr.  Gerry  was  so  much  opposed  to  it, 
as  to  vote  against  it  in  the  first  instance,  and  afterwards  to  move 
for  a  reconsideration  of  it. 

The  Landholder  having  in  a  former  publication  asserted  "that 
Mr.  Gerry  introduced  a  motion,  respecting  the  redemption  of  old 
continental  money"  and  the  public  having  been  informed  by  a  para- 
graph in  the  Massachusetts  Centinel,  No.  32,  of  vol.  8,  as  well  as 
by  the  honorable  Mr.  Martin,  that  neither  Mr.  Gerry,  or  any  other 
member,  had  introduced  such  a  proposition,  the  Landholder  now 
says  that  "out  of  126  days,  Mr.  Martin  attended  only  66,"  and  then 
enquires  "whether  it  is  to  be  presumed  that  Mr.  Martin  could  have 
been  minutely  informed,  of  all  that  happened  in  convention,  and 
committees  of  convention,  during  the  sixty  days  of  absence?"   and 


300      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

"Why  is  it  that  we  do  not  sec  Mr.  McHenry*s  verification  of  his 
assertion,  who  was  of  the  committee  for  considering  a  provision  for 
the  debts  of  the  union?"  But  if  these  enquiries  were  intended  for 
subterfuges,  unfortunately  for  the  Landholder,  they  will  not  avail 
him:  for,  had  Mr.  Martin  not  been  present  at  the  debates  on  this 
subject,  the  fact  is,  that  Mr.  Gerry  was  not  on  a  committee  with 
Mr.  McHenry,  or  with  any  other  person,  for  considering  a  provision 
for  the  debts  of  the  union,  or  any  provision  that  related  to  the  sub- 
ject of  old  continental  money;  neither  did  he  make  any  proposition, 
in  convention,  committee,  or  on  any  occasion,  to  any  member  of 
convention  or  other  person,  respecting  the  redemption  of  such  money; 
and  the  assertions  of  the  Landholder  to  the  contrary,  are  altogether 
destitute  of  the  shadow  of  truth. 

The  Landholder  addressing  Mr.  Martin,  further  says,  "Your 
reply  to  my  second  charge  against  Mr.  Gerry,  may  be  soon  dismissed: 
compare  his  letter  to  the  legislature  of  his  state,  with  your  defence, 
and  you  will  find,  that  you  have  put  into  his  mouth,  objections 
different  from  anything  it  contains,  so  that  if  your  representation 
be  true,  his  must  be  false."  The  objections  referred  to,  are  those 
mentioned  by  Mr.  Martin,  as  being  made  by  Mr.  Gerry,  against 
the  supreme  power  of  Congress  over  the  militia.  Mr.  Gerry,  in 
his  letter  to  the  legislature,  states  as  an  objection,  "That  some  of  the 
powers  of  the  federal  legislature  are  ambiguous,  and  others  (meaning 
the  unlimited  power  of  Congress,  to  keep  up  a  standing  army,  in 
time  of  peace,  and  their  entire  controul  of  the  militia)  are  indefinite 
and  dangerous."  Against  both  these  did  Mr,  Gerry  warmly  con- 
tend, and  why  his  representations  must  be  false,  if  Mr.  Martin's 
are  true,  which  particularized  what  Mr.  Gerry's  stated  generally, 
can  only  be  discovered  by  such  a  profound  reasoner,  as  the  Con- 
necticut Landholder.  

CC.    Charles  Pinckney:  Letter  in  State  Gazette  of  South 

Carolina.* 

Charleston,  May  2d,  1788. 

Mr.  Martin's  long  mischievous  detail  of  the  opinions  and  pro- 
ceedings of  the  late  general  convention,  .  .  .  with  all  his  colourings 
and  uncandid  insinuations,  in  regard  to  General  Washington  and 
Doct.  Franklin,  .  .  . 

What  pity  the  salutary  caution  of  Doct.  Franklin,  just  previous 
to  his  signing  the  constitution  recommended  by  the  convention, 
had  not  been  strictly  attended  to!  If  we  split,  it  will  in  all  proba- 
bility happen  in  running  headlong  on  the  dangerous  rock  he  so 

^  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  Constitution^  p.  412. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCfl  301 

prophetically  (as  it  were)  warded  us  from,  "That  the  opinions  of  the 
errors  of  the  constitution  bom  within  the  walls  of  the  convention, 
should  die  there,  and  not  a  syllable  be  whispered  abroad."  This 
Hint  is  full  of  that  foresight  and  penetration  the  Doctor  has  always 
been  remarkable  for. 

When  the  general  convention  met,  no  citizen  of  the  United  States 
could  expect  less  from  it  than  I  did,  so  many  jarring  interests  and 
prejudices  to  reconcile!  The  variety  of  pressing  dangers  at  our 
doors,  even  during  the  war,  were  barely  sufficient  to  force  us  to  act 
in  concert  and  necessarily  give  way  at  times  to  each  other.  But 
when  the  great  work  was  done  and  published^  I  was  not  only  most 
agreeably  disappointed,  but  struck  with  amazement.  Nothing  less 
than  that  superintending  hand  of  Providence,  that  so  miraculously 
carried  us  through  the  war  (in  my  humble  opinion),  could  have 
brought  it  about  so  complete,  upon  the  whole. 


CCa.    Pierce  Butler  to  Weedon  Butler.* 

Mary  Villa,  May  ye  Sth.  1 788. 
I  am  not  only  much  obliged,  but  much  flattered  by  your  opinion 
of  the  result  of  Our  Deliberations  last  Summer,  because  I  had  a 
small  hand  in  the  formation.  It  is  a  subject  that  formerly  for  me  I 
have  for  some  Years  past  turned  my  thoughts  to;  yet  still  I  am 
sensible  I  am  unequal  to  the  magnitude  of  it.  I  therefore  previous 
to  the  Election  declined  serving;  but  as  I  was  Elected  I  would  not 
refuse  going.  It  is  truly  an  Important  Era  to  the  United  States; 
and  they  now  seem  sensible  of  it.  The  Constitution  I  think  will 
be  agreed  to,  and  be  adopted  tho'  it  has  some  few  opponents.  Where 
is  that  work  of  man  that  pleases  everybody!  Pains  and  attention 
were  not  spared  to  form  such  a  Constitution  as  woud  preserve  to 
the  individual  as  large  a  share  of  natural  right  as  coud  be  left  con- 
sistent with  the  good  of  the  whole  —  to  balance  the  powers  of  the 
three  Branches,  so  that  no  one  shoud  too  greatly  perponderate.  We 
had  before  us  all  the  Ancient  and  modem  Constitutions  on  record, 
and  none  of  them  was  more  influential  on  Our  Judgements  than  the 
British  in  Its  Original  purity.  Let  you  and  I  compare  the  two  for 
a  moment  —  yet  if  I  begin  I  shall  tire  you.  I  will  be  as  concise  as 
possible,  indeed  I  am  ill  able  to  write  at  present,  and  much  less  to 
think.  You  have  a  King,  House  of  Lords  and  House  of  Commons. 
We  have  a  President,  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives.  Their 
powers  in  some  general  points  are  similar;  but  when  we  attentively 

^  British  Museum,  Additional  MSS.  16,603.   Copy  furnished  through  the  courtesy 
of  the  Department  of  Historical  Research  of  the  Carnegie  Institution  of  Washington. 


302     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

compare  the  total  of  the  two  Governments,  we  shall  find,  I  think, 
a  material  difference.  In  One,  the  People  at  large  have  little  to 
say,  and  less  to  do;  the  other  is  much  more  of  a  popular  Govern- 
ment—  the  whole  is  Elective.  In  the  King  of  G.B.  not  only  all 
Executive  power  is  lodged,  but  he  is  himself  also  a  very  important 
and  essential  branch  of  the  Legislature.  Without  him  there  can  be 
no  Parliament,  and  in  him  is  the  sole  power  of  Dissolving  it.  No 
Law  can  be  passed  without  His  Consent.  He  can  put  a  Negative 
upon  any  Bill  tho'  it  may  previously  have  met  with  the  Unanimous 
approbation  of  the  People.  He  can  Alone  form  Treaties,  which 
shall  bind  the  Nation.  He  has  the  sole  Right  of  declaring  War  or 
making  Peace,  so  that  the  lives  of  thousands  of  His  Subjects  are  at 
His  will.  He  has  the  sole  Power  of  Conferring  honors  and  Titles. 
It  is  truly  observed  by  one  of  Your  Law  Writers  that  "  the  House 
of  Lords  seems  politically  Constituted  for  the  support  of  the  rights 
of  the  Crown''.  He  is  the  head  of  the  Church.  All  your  Dignities 
flow  from  him.  He  may  by  a  Re  Exeat  Regnum  prevent  any  per- 
son from  leaving  the  Kingdom.  He  alone  has  the  right  of  Erecting 
Courts  of  Judicature;  the  Court  of  King's  Bench  —  I  mean  the 
Officers  of  it,  are  created  by  Letters  Patent  from  Him.  The  Crown 
is  Hereditary.  A  weak  man,  or  a  madman,  may  as  Heir  ascend  to 
it.  He  is  not  Responsible — the  King  can  do  no  wrong.  His  person 
is  sacred,  even  tho'  the  measure  pursued  in  His  Reign  be  arbi- 
trary, for  no  Earthly  Jurisdiction  has  power  to  try  Him  in  a 
Criminal  way.  The  President  of  the  United  States  is  the  Supreme 
Executive  Officer.  He  has  no  separate  legislative  power  whatever. 
He  can't  prevent  a  Bill  from  passing  into  a  Law.  In  making 
Treaties  two  thirds  of  the  Senate  must  concur.  In  the  Appoint- 
ment of  Ambassadors,  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  &ca..  He 
must  have  the  concurrence  of  the  Senate.  He  is  responsible  to 
His  Constituents  for  the  use  of  his  power.  He  is  Impeachable. 
His  Election,  the  mode  of  which  I  had  the  honor  of  proposing  in 
the  Committee  in  my  weak  judgment  precludes  Corruption  and 
tumult.  Yet  after  all.  My  Dear  Sir,  I  am  free  to  acknowledge  that 
His  Powers  are  full  great,  and  greater  than  I  was  disposed  to  make 
them.  Nor,  Entre  Nous,  do  I  believe  they  would  have  been  so 
great  had  not  many  of  the  members  cast  their  eyes  towards  Gen- 
eral Washington  as  President;  and  shaped  their  Ideas  of  the  Powers 
to  be  given  to  a  President,  by  their  opinions  of  his  Virtue.  So  that 
the  Man,  who  by  his  Patriotism  and  Virtue,  Contributed  largely  to 
the  Emancipation  of  his  Country,  may  be  the  Innocent  means  of 
its  being,  when  He  is  lay'd  low,  oppress'd. 

I  am  free  to  confess  that  after  all  our  Endeavours,  Our  System 


APPENDIX  A,   CCa  303 

is  little  better  than  matter  of  Experiment;  and  that  much  must 
depend  on  the  morals  and  manners  of  the  People  at  large.  It  Is  a 
large  and  wide  Extended  Empire,  let  then  the  System  be  ever  so 
perfect,  good  Order  and  Obedience  must  greatly  depend  on  the 
Patriotism  of  the  Citizen.  I  am  not  insensible  that  the  Constitu- 
tion we  have  Ventured  to  recommend  to  the  States  has  its  faults; 
but  the  Circumstances  under  which  it  was  framed  are  some  Allevia- 
tion of  them.  It  is  probable  there  were  Abilities  in  the  Convention 
to  bring  forward  a  more  perfect  System  of  Government  for  a  Country 
better  adapted  to  the  reception  of  it  than  America  ever  can  be.  Was 
America,  or  rather  the  States,  more  compact  It  is  possible  our  sys- 
tem woud  have  been  more  perfect.  Besides  our  Labours  required 
the  unanimous  Consent  of  the  States  in  Convention  to  Insure  suc- 
cess from  abroad.  We  were  therefore  in  prudence  obliged  to  Accomo- 
date ourselves  to  Interests  not  only  opposite  but  in  some  measure 
as  you  observe,  Clashing.  I  will  just  mention  one  Object,  and  that 
an  Important  One,  in  which  there  appeared  a  Gashing  of  Interests 
—  I  mean  Commerce  —  When  we  withdrew  from  G.  Britain  the 
Eastern  States  were  deprived  of  a  benefit  they  long  enjoyd  on  a 
large  participation  of  the  Carrying  Trade;  with  many  other  bene- 
fits that  they  had  in  Common  with  the  British,  under  your  Naviga- 
tion Laws  and  wise  Commercial  System  —  that  lucrative  Branch 
of  Trade  the  fishing  on  the  Banks  was  neither  enlarged  nor  better 
secured  by  withdrawing  from  Britain.  What  then  did  Our  Brethren 
of  the  Eastern  States  gain  by  a  long  and  bloody  contest?  Why 
nothing  but  the  honor  of  calling  themselves  Independent  States. 
Let  us  turn  Our  Eyes  for  a  moment  to  the  Southern  or  Staple  States, 
and  we  shall  see  how  they  stood  before  the  War  and  wherein  they 
have  benefited  by  Independence.  While  they  were  Colonies  they 
were  in  a  great  measure  Confined  to  One  market  for  the  Sale  of  their 
Produce  —  they  were  restricted  to  ship  in  British  Bottoms.  By 
Independence  a  Variety  of  markets  were  thrown  open  to  them  — 
the  Ships  of  every  Nation  may  come  into  their  Ports  —  thus  an  Emu- 
lation is  Created  in  the  Carrying  Trade,  which  of  course  lowers 
Freights  and  raises  the  Price  of  Staple  Articles  —  thus  Circumstanced 
we  were  obliged  to  Accomodate  ourselves  to  the  Interests  of  the 
Whole;  and  Our  System  shoud  be  considered  as  the  result  of  a  Spirit 
of  Accomodation,  and  not  as  the  most  perfect  System,  that  under 
the  Circumstances  coud  be  devised  by  the  Convention.  When  you 
consider,  my  Dear  Sir,  the  Great  Extent  of  Territory,  the  various 
Climates  &  products,  the  differing  manners  and,  as  I  before  observed, 
the  Contending  Commercial  Interests,  You  will  agree  with  me  that 
it  required  a  pretty  General  Spirit  of  Accomodation  in  the  members 


304     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  the  Convention  to  bring  forward  such  a  system  as  woud  be  agreed 
to  and  approved  of  by  all.  In  this  light  then  are  You  to  View  the 
Product  of  Our  Joint  Endeavours.  The  Convention  saw,  I  think 
justly,  the  Critical  Situation  of  the  United  States  —  Slighted  from 
abroad  and  totering  on  the  brink  of  Confusion  at  home;  they  there- 
fore thought  it  wise  to  bring  forward  such  a  system  as  bid  fairest 
for  general  approbation  and  adoption  so  as  to  be  brought  soon  into 
operation.  

CCI.   John  Dickinson:  Letfers  of  Fabius.* 

There  is  another  improvement  equally  deserving  regard,  and 
that  is,  the  varied  representation  of  sovereignties  and  people  in  the 
constitution  now  proposed. 

It  has  been  said,  that  this  representation  was  a  mere  compromise. 

It  was  not  a  mere  compromise.  The  equal  representation  of  each 
state  in  one  branch  of  the  legislature,  was  an  original  substantive 
proposition,  made  in  convention,  very  soon  after  the  draft  offered 
by  Virginia,  to  which  last  mentioned  state  United  America  is  much 
indebted  not  only  in  other  respects,  but  for  her  merit  in  the  origina- 
tion and  prosecution  of  this  momentous  business. 

The  proposition  was  expressly  made  upon  this  principle,  that  a 
territory  of  such  extent  as  that  of  United  America,  could  not  be 
safely  and  advantageously  governed,  but  by  a  combination  of  re- 
publics, each  retaining  all  the  rights  of  supreme  sovereignty, 
excepting  such  as  ought  to  be  contributed  to  the  union;  that  for 
the  securer  preservation  of  these  sovereignties,  they  ought  to  be 
represented  in  a  body  by  themselves,  and  with  equal  suffrage;  and 
that  they  would  be  annihilated,  if  both  branches  of  the  legislature 
were  to  be  formed  of  representatives  of  the  people,  in  propor- 
tion to  the  number  of  inhabitants  in  each  state. 


ecu.   George  Mason  to  Thomas  Jefferson.* 

Virginia,  Gunston-Hall  May  26th.  1788. 
I  make  no  Doubt  that  You  have  long  ago  received  Copys  of 
the  new  Constitution  of  Government,  framed  last  Summer,  by  the 
Delegates  of  the  several  States,  in  general  Convention,  at  Phila- 
delphia. Upon  the  most  mature  consideration  I  was  capable  of, 
and  from  Motives  of  sincere  Patriotism,  I  was  under  the  Necessity 
of  refusing  my  Signature,  as  one  of  the  Virginia  Delegates;  and  drew 

*  P.  L.  Ford,  Pamphlets  on  the  Constitution,  pp.  206-207;  first  printed  cariy  ia 
1788,  this  number  probably  appeared  early  in  May. 

'  Documfntary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  629-630. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCIII  305 

up  some  general  Objections;  which  I  intended  to  oiFer,  by  way  of 
Protest;  but  was  discouraged  from  doing  so,  by  the  precipitate,  & 
intemperate,  not  to  say  indecent  Manner,  in  which  the  Business 
was  conducted,  during  the  last  week  of  the  Convention,  after  the 
Patrons  of  this  new  Plan  found  they  had  a  decided  Majority  in  their 
Favour;  which  was  obtained  by  a  Compromise  between  the  Eastern 
&  the  two  Southern  States,  to  permit  the  latter  to  continue  the 
Importation  of  Slaves  for  twenty  odd  Years;  a  more  favourite 
Object  with  them,  than  the  Liberty  and  Happiness  of  the  People. 


CCIII.    Daniel  Carroll  to  James  Madison.^ 

May  28th.  1788. 
The  people  were  alarm'd  at  their  possitive  assertions,  and  I  am 
assurd  when  they  attended  the  Polls,  a  wildness  appeard  in  many 
which  show'd  they  were  realy  frightend  by  what  they  had  just  heard 

—  I  am  sorry  to  add  on  this  occasion  to  yrself  only,  or  such  as  you 
can  entirely  confide  in,  without  my  names  being  mentiond  that 
it  is  probable  Mr  Mercer's  assertions  contributed  in  no  small  degree 
to  this  effect  —  Among  other  things  take  the  following.  A  few  men 
had  long  before  projected  the  proposed  plan  of  Govt  Mr  Morris' 
report  to  Congress  proposing  certain  specific  funds,  &  the  mode 
of  collection  which  you  may  remember  were  read  if  not  debated  in 
Congress,  was  made  out  to  be  part  of  this  plan,  &  some  thing  from 
the  French  Minister  in  Support  of  it  —  Hence  was  a  Juncto  with 
a  French  Interest  infer' d  —  This  was  to  be  disclosd  to  our  Conven- 
tion and  be  opend  in  yrs,  and  some  of  the  then  members  of  Congress 
were  to  be  call'd  on  as  evidences  to  the  truth  of  it.  What  do  you 
say  to  this  wonderfull  plot?  Extraordinary  as  the  assertion  was  in 
itself,  it  became  more  effectual  for  the  purposes  intended  by  some 
of  the  hearers,  confounding  the  time,  and  takeing  up  the  Idea  that 
the  French  Minister  was  actually  concernd  in  promoting  that 
scheme  at  the  federal  Convention  —  Again,  a  Member  from  N. 
Hampshire  (I  believe  Langdon)  declar'd  in  Convention  that  rather 
than  the  States  shou'd  have  the  power  of  emitting  paper  money 
he  woud  consent  to  make  General  Washington  despot  of  America 

—  further  that  it  was  the  declar'd  sense  of  the  Convention  that 
Tryales  by  jurys  in  civil  cases  were  taken  away.  &ca. 

.  .  .  Among  other  matters  which  have  been  circulated,  there  is 
one  which  had  the  effect  my  Enemies  (if  I  may  so  call  any  persons) 
wishd.  I  was  on  a  ballot  last  winter  for  members  of  Congress  left 
out  by  the  difference  of  2  or  3.  —  It  was  imputed  to  the  Majority 

*  Documentary  History  of  ike  Constttuttofiy  IV,  636-640. 


3o6     RECORDS  or  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  the  Delegates  being  Anti-federal;  but  I  find  from  some  Members 
another  matter  operated  for  that  purpose  —  It  has  come  to  light 
that  Luther  Martin  in  his  Tavern  harangues  among  the  members 
during  the  sitting  of  that  Assembly  had  informd  many  of  them  that 
more  than  20  Members  of  the  Convention  were  in  favor  of  a  Kingly 
Government,  and  that  he  receivd  the  information  from  Mr  McHenry 
who  had  a  list  of  their  names  on  the  ist  printed  report  of  the  Com- 
mittee of  Detail — This  positive  assertion  under  the  weight  of 
Mr  McHenrys  name  had  the  effect  I  have  mentioned — Some  time 
after  the  breaking  up  of  the  Assembly  being  informd  of  what  Martin 
had  said,  I  wrote  to  Mr  McHenry  who  gave  for  answer,  that  seeing 
a  list  of  names  on  Mr  Mercers  report,  he  copied  it  &  ask'd  him  what 
the  words  for  and  against  meant,  who  replied, /or  a  KLingly  govemmt* 
against  it.  I  wrote  to  Mr  McHenry  that  as  I  had  been  injurd  by 
his  names  being  mentiond  I  desird  he  wou'd  take  a  proper  occasion 
whilst  the  Convention  was  sitting  of  having  justice  done  me  —  He 
has  answerd  that  on  speaking  to  Mercer,  on  the  Subject,  he  told 
him  that  he  meant  a  National  Govt,  to  which  McHenry  says  I  do 
not  know  what  you  meant,  but  you  said  a  Kingly  Govert.*  —  This 
Mercer  denies  and  has  given  from  under  his  hand  that  he  neither 
said  Kingly  or  National  Govt.  —  I  have  a  letter  from  Luther  Martin 
wherein  he  says  he  had  the  information  from  McHenry  without 
Mercer  being  mentioned  who  told  him  he  might  rely  on  ye  per- 
sons being  as  markd  for  a  Kingly  Govt.  —  Thus  this  matter  rests 
at  present — it  is  to  be  setteld  between  McHenry  &  Martin  on  one 
point,  &  him  &  Mercer  on  another  —  ^ 


CCIV.   Hugh  Williamson  to  James  Madison.* 

New  York  June  2nd  1788 
By  the  Time  this  comes  to  Hand  you  will  be  pretty  well  engaged 
in  discussing  the  new  Constitution  &  attempting  to  convince  men 
who  came  forward  with  the  Resolution  not  to  be  convinced.  Of  all 
the  wrong  heads  who  have  started  in  opposition  none  have  been 
mentioned  who  appear  to  be  so  palpably  wrong  as  the  People  of 
Kentucke.  It  is  said  that  some  antifed  in  Maryland  on  the  last 
Winter  fastened  on  the  Ear  of  Genl  Wilkinson  who  was  accidentally 
there  and  persuaded  him  that  in  case  of  a  new  Govt,  the  Naviga- 
tion of  the  Mississippi  would  infallibly  be  given  up.  Your  Recol- 
lection must  certainly  enable  you  to  say  that  there  is  a  Proviso  in 
the  new  Sistem  which  was  inserted  for  the  express  purpose  of  pre- 
venting a  majority  of  the  Senate  or  of  the  States  which  is  considered 

»  See  CCXI  below.        ■  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  IV,  677-678. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCV  307 

as  the  same  thing  from  giving  up  the  Mississippi  It  is  provided 
that  two  thirds  of  the  Members  present  in  the  senate  shall  be  re- 
quired to  concur  in  making  Treaties  and  if  the  southern  states  at- 
tend to  their  Duty,  this  will  imply  f .  of  the  States  in  the  Union 
together  with  the  President,  a  security  rather  better  than  the  pres- 
ent 9  States  especially  as  Vermont  &  the  Province  of  Main  may  be 
added  to  the  Eastern  Interest  and  you  may  recollect  that  when  a 
Member,  Mr  Willson  objected  to  this  Proviso,  saying  that  in  all 
Govts,  the  Majority  should  govern  it  was  replyed  that  the  Naviga- 
tion of  the  Mississippi  after  what  had  already  happened  in  Congress 
was  not  to  be  risqued  in  the  Hands  of  a  meer  Majority  and  the 
Objection  was  withdrawn.      

CCV.    Edmund  Randolph  in  the  Virginia  Convention.^ 

June  4,  1788. 
I  refused  to  sign,  and  if  the  same  were  to  return,  again  would 
I  refuse.  Wholly  to  adopt  or  wholly  to  reject,  as  proposed  by  the 
convention,  seemed  too  hard  an  alternative  to  the  citizens  of  America, 
whose  servants  we  were,  and  whose  pretensions  amply  to  discuss 
the  means  of  their  happiness,  were  undeniable.  .  .  .  When  I  with- 
held my  subscription,  I  had  not  even  the  glimpse  of  the  genius  of 
America,  relative  to  the  principles  of  the  new  constitution.  Who, 
arguing  from  the  preceding  history  of  Virginia,  could  have  divined 
that  she  was  prepared  for  the  important  change?  In  former  times 
indeed,  she  transcended  every  colony  in  professions  and  practices 
of  loyalty;  but  she  opened  a  perilous  war,  under  a  democracy  almost 
as  pure  as  representation  would  admit:  she  supported  it  under  a 
constitution  which  subjects  all  rule,  authority  and  power,  to  the 
legislature:  every  attempt  to  alter  it  had  been  baffled:  the  increase 
of  congressional  power,  had  always  excited  an  alarm.  I  therefore 
would  not  bind  myself  to  uphold  the  new  constitution,  before  I  had 
tried  it  by  the  true  touchstone;  especially  too,  when  I  foresaw,  that 
even  the  members  of  the  general  convention,  might  be  instructed  by 
the  comments  of  those  who  were  without  doors.  But  I  had  more- 
over objections  to  the  constitution,  the  most  material  of  which,  too 
lengthy  in  detail,  I  have  as  yet  barely  stated  to  the  public,  but  shall 
explain  when  we  arrive  at  the  proper  points.  Amendments  were 
consequently  my  wish;  these  were  the  grounds  of  my  repugnance  to 
subscribe,  and  were  perfectly  reconcileable  with  my  unalterable  reso- 
lution, to  be  regulated  by  the  spirit  of  America,  if  after  our  best 
efforts  for  amendments,  they  could  not  be  removed.     .  .  . 

^  Robertson,  DihaUs  of  tki  Conoention  of  Virginia^  1788  (2d  ed.,  1805),  pp.  29-31. 


308      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

.  •  •  The  members  of  the  general  convention  were  particularly 
deputed  to  meliorate  the  confederation.  On  a  thorough  contem- 
plation of  the  subject,  they  found  it  impossible  to  amend  that  sys- 
tem: what  was  to  be  done?  The  dangers  of  America,  which  will 
be  shewn  at  another  time  by  particular  enumeration,  suggested  the 
expedient  of  forming  a  new  plan:  .  .  .  after  meeting  in  convention 
the  deputies  from  the  states  communicated  their  information  to 
one  another:  on  a  review  of  our  critical  situation,  and  of  the  impos- 
sibility of  introducing  any  degree  of  improvement  into  the  old 
system;  what  ought  they  to  have  done?  Would  it  not  have  been 
treason  to  have  returned  without  proposing  some  scheme  to  relieve 
their  distressed  country?  The  honorable  gentleman  asks,  why  we 
should  adopt  a  system,  that  shall  annihilate  and  destroy  our  treaties 
with  France,  and  other  nations?  I  think,  the  misfortune  is,  that  these 
treaties  are  violated  already,  under  the  honorable  gentleman's 
favorite  system.  I  conceive  that  our  engagements  with  foreign 
nations  are  not  all  affected  by  this  system,  for  the  sixth  article 
expressly  provides,  that  'all  debts  contracted,  and  engagements 
entered  into,  before  the  adoption  of  this  constitution,  shall  be  as 
valid  against  the  United  States  under  this  constitution,  as  under 
the  confederation,'  Does  this  system  then,  cancel  debts  due  to  or 
from  the  continent?  Is  it  not  a  well  known  maxim  that  no  change 
of  situation  can  alter  an  obligation  once  rightly  entered  into?  He 
also  objects  because  nine  states  are  sufficient  to  put  the  government 
in  motion:  what  number  of  states  ought  we  to  have  said?  Ought 
we  to  have  required  the  concurrence  of  all  the  thirteen?  Rhode- 
Island,  in  rebellion  against  integrity;  Rhode-Island  plundered  all 
the  world  by  her  paper  money,  and  notorious  for  her  uniform  oppo- 
sition to  every  federal  duty,  would  then  have  it  in  her  power  to  de- 
feat the  union;  and  may  we  not  judge  with  absolute  certainty  from 
her  past  conduct,  that  she  would  do  so?  Therefore,  to  have  required 
the  ratification  of  all  the  thirteen  states  would  have  been  tantamount 
to  returning  without  having  done  any  thing.  What  other  number 
would  have  been  proper?  Twelve?  The  same  spirit  that  has  actuated 
me  in  the  whole  progress  of  the  business,  would  have  prevented  me 
from  leaving  it  in  the  power  of  any  one  state  to  dissolve  the  union: 
for  would  it  not  be  lamentable,  that  nothing  could  be  done  for  the 
defection  of  one  state?  A  majority  of  the  whole  would  have  been 
two  few.  Nine  states  therefore  seem  to  be  a  most  proper  num- 
ber. ...  In  the  whole  of  this  business,  I  have  acted  in  the  strictest 
obedience  to  the  dictates  of  my  conscience,  in  discharging  what  I 
conceive  to  be  my  duty  to  my  country.  I  refused  my  signature, 
and  if  the  same  reasons  operated  on  my  mind,  I  would  still  refuse; 


APPENDIX  A,   CCVI  309 

but  as  I  think  that  those  eight  states  which  have  adopted  the  con- 
stitution will  not  recede,  I  am  a  friend  to  the  union. 


CCVI.    Edmund  Randolph  in  the  Virginia  Convention.^ 

June  6,  1788. 
The  trial  by  jury  in  criminal  cases  is  secured  —  in  civil  cases 
it  is  not  so  expressly  secured,  as  I  could  wish  it;  but  it  does  not  fol- 
low, that  congress  has  the  power  of  taking  away  this  privilege  which 
is  secured  by  the  constitution  of  each  state,  and  not  given  away  by 
this  constitution  —  I  have  no  fear  on  this  subject  —  congress  must 
regulate  it  so  as  to  suit  every  state.  I  will  risk  my  property  on  the 
certainty,  that  they  will  institute  the  trial  by  jury  in  such  manner 
as  shall  accommodate  the  conveniences  of  the  inhabitants  in  every 
state:  the  difficulty  of  ascertaining  this  accommodation,  was  the 
principal  cause  of  its  not  being  provided  for. 


CCVII.    Edmund  Randolph  in  the  Virginia  Convention.* 

June  7,  1788. 

The  system  under  consideration  is  objected  to  in  an  unconnected 
and  irregular  manner:  detached  parts  are  attacked  without  con- 
sidering the  whole:  this,  sir,  is  disingenuous  and  unreasonable.  Ask 
if  the  powers  be  unnecessary.  If  the  end  proposed  can  be  obtained 
by  any  other  means,  the  powers  may  be  unnecessary.  Infallibility 
was  not  arrogated  by  the  convention;  they  included  in  the  system 
those  powers  they  thought  necessary  .  .  . 

As  to  the  mode  of  paying  taxes,  little  need  be  said  —  it  is  imma- 
terial which  way  they  are  to  be  paid;  for  they  are  to  be  paid  only 
once.  I  had  an  objection  which  pressed  heavily  on  my  mind  —  I 
was  solicitous  to  know  the  objects  of  taxation.  I  wished  to  make 
some  discrimination  with  regard  to  the  demands  of  congress,  and 
of  the  states,  on  the  same  object.  As  neither  can  restrain  the  other 
in  this  case;  as  the  power  of  both  is  unlimited,  it  will  be  their  interest 
mutually  to  avoid  interferences.  It  will  most  certainly  be  the  inter- 
est of  either  to  avoid  imposing  a  tax  on  an  article,  which  shall  have 
been  previously  taxed  by  the  other.  This  consideration,  and  the 
structure  of  the  government  satisfy  me. 

*  Robertson,  Debates  of  the  Conveniion  of  Virginia^  1788  (2d  edit.,  1805),  p.  59. 

•  Robertson,  Debates  of  the  Convention  of  Virginia^  1788  (ad  edit.,  1805),  pp.  95- 

99. 


310     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCVIII.   Edmund  kANDOLPH  in  the  Virginia  C6nvention.^ 

June  10.  1788. 
Freedom  of  religion  is  said  to  be  in  danger.  I  will  candidly  say, 
I  once  thought  that  it  was,  and  felt  great  repugnance  to  the  constitu- 
tion for  that  reason.  I  am  willing  to  acknowledge  my  apprehen- 
sions removed  —  and  I  will  inform  you  by  what  process  of  reasoning 
I  did  remove  them.  The  constitution  provides,  that  "the  senators 
and  representatives  before  mentioned,  and  the  members  of  the 
several  state  legislatures,  and  all  executive  and  judicial  officers, 
"both  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  several  states,  shall  be  bound 
"by  oath,  or  affirmation,  to  support  this  constitution;  but  no  re- 
ligious test  shall  ever  be  required  as  a  qualification  to  any  office 
or  public  trust  under  the  United  States."  It  has  been  said,  that  if 
the  exclusion  of  the  religious  test  were  an  exception  from  the  general 
power  of  congress,  the  power  over  religion  would  remain.  I  in- 
form those  who  are  of  this  opinion,  that  no  power  is  given  expressly 
to  congress  over  religion.  The  senators  and  representatives,  mem- 
bers of  the  state  legislatures,  and  executive  and  judicial  officers,  are 
bound  by  oath,  or  affirmation,  to  support  this  constitution.  This  only 
binds  them  to  support  it  in  the  exercise  of  the  powers  constitutionally 
given  it.  The  exclusion  of  religious  tests  is  an  exception  from  this  gen- 
eral provision,  with  respect  to  oaths,  or  affirmations.  Although  offi- 
cers, &c.  are  to  swear  that  they  will  support  this  constitution,  yet 
they  are  not  bound  to  support  one  mode  of  worship,  or  to  adhere  to 
one  particular  sect.  It  puts  all  sects  on  the  same  footing.  A  man 
of  abilities  and  character,  of  any  sect  whatever,  may  be  admitted  to 
any  office  or  public  trust  under  the  United  States.  I  am  a  friend  to 
a  variety  of  sects,  because  they  keep  one  another  in  order.  How 
many  different  sects  are  we  composed  of  throughout  the  United 
States?  How  many  different  sects  will  be  in  congress?  We  cannot 
enumerate  the  sects  that  may  be  in  congress.  And  there  are  so  many 
now  in  the  United  States  that  they  will  prevent  the  establishment  of 
any  one  sect  in  prejudice  to  the  rest,  and  will  forever  oppose  all 
attempts  to  infringe  religious  liberty.  If  such  an  attempt  be  made, 
will  not  the  alarm  be  sounded  throughout  America?  If  congress  be 
as  wicked  as  we  are  foretold  they  will,  they  would  not  run  the  risk  of 
exciting  the  resentment  of  all,  or  most  of  the  religious  sects  in  America. 
The  judiciary  is  drawn  up  in  terror  —  here  I  have  an  objection 
of  a  different  nature.  I  object  to  the  appellate  jurisdiction  as  the 
greatest  evil  in  it. 

^  Robertton,  DebaUs  of  iki  Conventian  of  FirginiOt  178S  (2d  edit.,  1805),  pp.  151- 


APPENDIX  Ay   CCIX  3II 

CCIX.   James  Madison  in  the  Virginia  Convention.^ 

June  12,  1788. 
The  congressional  proceedings  are  to  be  occasionally  published, 
including  all  receipts  and  expenditures  of  public  money,  of  which 
no  part  can  be  used,  but  in  consequence  of  appropriations  made  by 
law.  This  is  a  security  which  we  do  not  enjoy  under  the  existing 
system.  That  part  which  authorises  the  government  to  withhold 
from  the  public  knowledge  what  in  their  judgment  may  require 
secrecy,  is  imitated  from  the  confederation  —  that  very  system  which 
the  gentleman  advocates.       

CCX.   Debate  in  the  Virginia  Convention.* 

June  14,  1788. 
{The  4ih  and  ^th  sections  read.) 

Mr.  Monroe  wished  that  the  honorable  gentleman,  who  had  been 
in  the  federal  convention,  would  give  information  respecting  the 
clause  concerning  elections.  He  wished  to  know  why  congress  had 
an  ultimate  controul  over  the  time,  place,  and  manner  of  elections 
of  representatives,  and  the  time  and  manner  of  that  of  senators;  and 
also  why  there  was  an  exception  as  to  the  place  of  electing  senators. 

Mr.  Madison.  —  Mr.  Chairman,  —  The  reason  of  the  exception 
was,  that  if  congress  could  fix  the  place  of  choosing  the  senators, 
it  might  compel  the  state  legislatures  to  elect  them  in  a  di£Ferent 
place  from  that  of  their  usual  sessions,  which  would  produce  some 
inconvenience,  and  was  not  necessary  for  the  object  of  regulating 
elections.  But  it  was  necessary  to  give  the  general  government  a 
controul  over  the  time  and  manner  of  choosing  the  senators,  to  pre- 
vent its  own  dissolution. 

With  respect  to  the  other  point,  it  was  thought  that  the  regulation 
of  time,  place,  and  manner  of  electing  the  representatives,  should 
be  uniform  throughout  the  continent.  Some  states  might  regulate 
the  elections  on  the  principles  of  equality,  and  others  might  regulate 
them  otherwise.  This  diversity  would  be  obviously  unjust.  Elec- 
tions are  regulated  now  unequally  in  some  states,  particularly  South 
Carolina,  with  respect  to  Charleston^  which  is  represented  by  30  mem- 
bers. —  Should  the  people  of  any  state,  by  any  means  be  deprived 
of  the  right  of  suffrage,  it  was  judged  proper  that  it  should  be  remedied 
by  the  general  government.  It  was  found  impossible  to  fix  the  time, 
place,  and  manner,  of  the  election  of  representatives  in  the  constitu- 

^  Robertson,  Debates  of  the  Conoention  of  Firginiaf  1788  (2d  edit.,  1805),  p.  236. 
'  Robertton,  Debates  of  the  Corwention  of  Virginia,  if 88  (2d  edit.,  1805),  pp.  261- 
29a 


312     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

tion.  It  was  found  necessary  to  leave  the  regulation  of  these,  in 
the  first  place,  to  the  state  governments,  as  being  best  acquainted 
with  the  situation  of  the  people,  subject  to  the  controul  of  the  gen- 
eral government,  in  order  to  enable  it  to  produce  uniformity,  and 
prevent  its  own  dissolution.  And  considerng  the  state  governments 
and  general  government  as  distinct  bodies,  acting  in  different  and 
independent  capacities  for  the  people,  it  was  thought  the  particular 
regulations  should  be  submitted  to  the  former,  and  the  general 
regulations  to  the  latter.  Were  they  exclusively  under  the  controul 
of  the  state  governments,  the  general  government  might  easily  be 
dissolved.  But  if  they  be  regulated  properly  by  the  state  legisla- 
tures, the  congressional  controul  will  very  probably  never  be  exer- 
cised. The  power  appears  to  me  satisfactory,  and  as  unlikely  to 
be  abused  as  any  part  of  the  constitution. 

Mr.  Monroe  wished  to  hear  an  explanation  of  the  clause  which 
prohibits  either  house,  during  the  session  of  congress,  from  adjourn- 
ing for  more  than  three  days  without  the  consent  of  the  other.  He 
asked  if  it  was  proper  or  right,  that  the  members  of  the  lower  house 
should  be  dependent  on  the  senate?  He  considered  that  it  rendered 
them  in  some  respect  dependent  on  the  senators,  as  it  prevented  them 
from  returning  home,  or  adjourning,  without  their  consent,' and  as 
this  might  encrease  their  influence  unduly,  he  thought  it  improper. 

Mr.  Madison  wondered  that  this  clause  should  meet  with  a  shadow 
of  objection.  It  was  possible,  he  observed,  that  the  two  branches 
might  not  agree  concerning  the  time  of  adjourning,  and  that  this 
possibility  suggested  the  power  given  the  president  of  adjourning 
both  houses  to  such  time  as  he  should  think  proper,  in  case  of  their 
disagreement.  —  That  it  would  be  very  exceptionable  to  allow  the 
senators,  or  even  the  representatives,  to  adjourn  without  the  con- 
sent of  the  other  house,  at  any  season  whatsoever,  without  any  regard 
to  the  situation  of  public  exigencies.  That  it  was  possible,  in  the 
nature  of  things,  that  some  inconvenience  might  result  from  it;  but 
that  it  was  as  well  secured  as  possible. 

Governor  Randolph  observed,  that  the  constitution  of  Massachu- 
setts was  produced  as  an  example,  in  the  grand  convention,  in  favor 
of  this  power  given  to  the  president.  If,  said  his  excellency,  he  be 
honest,  he  will  do  what  is  right.  —  If  dishonest,  the  representatives 
of  the  people  will  have  power  of  impeaching  him. 

{The  6th  section  read,) 

Mr.  Henry.  —  Mr.  Chairman  —  Our  burden  should,  if  possible, 
be  rendered  more  light.  I  was  in  hopes  some  other  gentleman  would 
have  objected  to  this  part.    The  pay  of  the  members  is,  by  the 


APPENDIX  A,    CCX  313 

constitution,  to  be  fixed  by  themselves,  without  limitation  or  re- 
straint. They  may  therefore  indulge  themselves  in  the  fullest 
extent.  They  may  make  their  compensations  as  high  as  they  please. 
I  suppose,  if  they  be  good  men,  their  own  delicacy  will  lead  them  to 
be  satisfied  with  moderate  salaries.  But  there  is  no  security  for 
this,  should  they  be  otherwise  inclined.  I  really  believe  that  if  the 
state  legislatures  were  to  fix  their  pay,  no  inconvenience  would 
result  from  it,  and  the  public  mind  would  be  better  satisfied.  But 
in  the  same  section  there  is  a  defect  of  much  greater  consequence. 
There  is  no  restraint  on  corruption.  They  may  be  appointed  to 
offices  without  any  material  restriction,  and  the  principal  source  of 
corruption  in  representatives,  is  the  hopes  and  expectations  of 
offices  and  emoluments.  After  the  first  organization  of  offices,  and 
the  government  is  put  in  motion,  they  may  be  appointed  to  any 
existing  offices  which  become  vacant,  and  they  may  create  a  multi- 
plicity of  offices,  in  order  thereafter  to  be  appointed  to  them.  What 
says  the  clause.^  "No  senator  or  representative,  shall,  during  the 
time  for  which  he  was  elected,  be  appointed  to  any  civil  office  under 
the  authority  of  the  United  States,  which  shall  have  been  created, 
or  the  emoluments  whereof  shall  have  been  increased,  during  such 
time.**  This  is  an  idea  strangely  expressed.  He  shall  not  accept 
of  any  office  created  during  the  time  he  is  elected  for,  or  to  any  office 
whereof  the  emoluments  have  been  increased  in  that  time!  Does 
not  this  plainly  say,  that  if  an  office  be  not  created  during  the  time 
for  which  he  is  elected,  or  if  its  emoluments  be  not  increased  during 
such  time,  that  he  may  accept  of  it?  I  can  see  it  in  no  other  light. 
If  we  wish  to  preclude  the  inticement  to  getting  offices,  there  is  a 
clear  way  of  expressing  it.  If  it  be  better  that  congress  should  go 
out  of  their  representative  offices,  by  accepting  other  offices,  then 
it  ought  to  be  so.  If  not,  we  require  an  amendment  in  the  clause, 
that  it  shall  not  be  so.  I  may  be  wrong.  Perhaps  the  honorable 
member  may  be  able  to  give  a  satisfactory  answer  on  this  subject. 
Mr.  Madison.  —  Mr.  Chairman.  —  I  most  sincerely  wish  to 
give  a  proper  explanation  on  this  subject,  in  such  a  manner  as  may 
be  to  the  satisfaction  of  every  one.  I  shall  suggest  such  considera- 
tions as  led  the  convention  to  approve  of  this  clause.  With  respect 
to  the  right  of  ascertaining  their  own  pay,  I  will  acknowledge,  that 
their  compensations,  if  practicable,  should  be  fixed  in  the  constitu- 
tion itself,  so  as  not  to  be  dependent  on  congress  itself,  or  on  the 
state  legislatures.  The  various  vicissitudes,  or  rather  the  gradual 
diminution  of  the  value  of  all  coins  and  circulating  medium,  is  one 
reason  against  ascertaining  them  immutably;  as  what  may  be  now 
an  adequate  compensation,  might,  by  the  progressive  reduction  of 


314      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  value  of  our  circulating  medium,  be  extremely  inadequate  at  a 
period  not  far  distant. 

It  was  thought  improper  to  leave  it  to  the  state  legislatures, 
because  it  is  improper  that  one  government  should  be  dependent 
on  another:  and  the  great  inconveniences  experienced  under  the 
old  confederation,  shew,  that  the  states  would  be  operated  upon  by 
local  considerations,  as  contradistinguished  from  general  and  national 
interests.  —  Experience  shews  us,  that  they  have  been  governed  by 
such  heretofore,  and  reason  instructs  us,  that  they  would  be  influ- 
enced by  them  again.  This  theoretic  inconvenience  of  leaving  to 
congress  the  fixing  their  compensations,  is  more  than  counterbalanced 
by  this  in  the  confederation;  that  the  state  legislatures  had  a  right 
to  determine  the  pay  of  the  members  of  congress,  which  enabled  the 
states  to  destroy  the  general  government.  There  is  no  instance 
where  this  power  has  been  abused.  In  America,  legislative  bodies 
have  reduced  their  own  wages  lower  rather  than  augmented  them. 
This  is  a  power  which  cannot  be  abused  without  rousing  universal 
attention  and  indignation.  What  would  be  the  consequence  of 
the  Virginia  legislature  raising  their  pay  to  four  or  five  pounds  each 
per  day?  The  universal  indignation  of  the  people.  Should  the  gen- 
eral congress  annex  wages  disproportionate  to  their  service,  or  repug- 
nant to  the  sense  of  the  community,  they  would  be  universally 
execrated.  The  certainty  of  incurring  the  general  detestation  of  the 
people  will  prevent  abuse.  It  was  conceived  that  the  great  danger 
was  in  creating  new  offices,  which  would  increase  the  burdens  of  the 
people:  and  not  in  an  uniform  admission  of  all  meritorious  characters 
to  serve  their  country  in  the  old  offices.  There  is  no  instance  of 
any  state  constitution  which  goes  as  far  as  this.  It  was  thought  to 
be  a  mean  between  two  extremes.  It  guards  against  abuse  by  tak- 
ing away  the  inducement  to  create  new  offices,  or  increase  the  emolu- 
ments of  old  offices.  And  it  gives  them  an  opportunity  of  enjoying, 
in  common  with  other  citizens,  any  of  the  existing  offices  which  they 
may  be  capable  of  executing.  To  have  precluded  them  from  this, 
would  have  been  to  exclude  them  from  a  common  privilege  to  which 
every  citizen  is  entitled,  and  to  prevent  those  who  had  served  their 
country  with  the  greatest  fidelity  and  ability  from  being  on  a  par 
with  their  fellow-citizens.  I  think  it  as  well  guarded  as  reason 
requires:  More  so  than  the  constitution  of  any  other  nation.    .  .  . 

Mr.  Madison.  —  Mr.  Chairman  —  Let  me  ask  those  who  oppose 
this  part  of  the  system,  whether  any  alteration  would  not  make 
it  equally,  or  more  liable  to  objections?  Would  it  be  better  to 
fix  their  compensations?  Would  not  this  produce  inconveniencies? 
What  authorises  us  to  conclude,  that  the  value  of  coins  will  continue 


APPENDIX  A,   CCX  315 

always  the  same?  Would  it  be  prudent  to  make  them  dependent 
on  the  state  governments  for  their  salaries  —  on  those  who  watch 
them  with  jealous  eyes,  and  who  consider  them  as  encroaching, 
not  on  the  people,  but  on  themselves?  But  the  worthy  member 
supposes,  that  congress  will  fix  their  wages  so  low,  that  only  the  rich 
can  fill  the  offices  of  senators  and  representatives.  Who  are  to 
appoint  them?  The  rich?  No,  sir,  the  people  arc  to  choose  them. 
If  the  members  of  the  general  government  were  to  reduce  their 
compensations  to  a  trifle,  before  the  evil  suggested  could  happen, 
the  people  could  elect  other  members  in  their  stead,  who  would  alter 
that  regulation.  The  people  do  not  choose  them  for  their  wealth. 
If  the  state  legislatures  choose  such  men  as  senators,  it  does  not 
influence  the  people  at  large  in  their  election  of  representatives. 
They  can  choose  those  who  have  the  most  merit  and  least  wealth. 
If  congress  reduce  their  wages  to  a  trifle,  what  shall  prevent  the  states 
from  giving  a  man  of  merit,  so  much  as  will  be  an  adequate  compen- 
sation? I  think  the  evil  very  remote,  and  if  it  were  now  to  happen, 
the  remedy  is  in  our  own  hands,  and  may  by  ourselves  be  applied. 

Another  gentleman  seems  to  apprehend  infinite  mischief  from  a 
possibility  that  any  member  of  congress  may  be  appointed  to  an 
office,  although  he  ceases  to  be  a  member  the  moment  he  accepts 
it!  What  will  be  the  consequence  of  precluding  them  from  being 
so  appointed?  If  you  have  in  your  country  one  man  whom  you  could 
in  time  of  danger  trust  above  all  others,  with  an  office  of  high  impor- 
tance, he  cannot  undertake  it  till  the  two  years  expire  if  he  be  a 
representative;  or  till  the  six  years  elapse,  if  a  senator.  Suppose 
America  was  engaged  in  war;  and  the  man  of  the  greatest  military 
talents  and  approved  fidelity,  was  a  member  of  either  house  —  would 
it  be  right  that  this  man  who  could  lead  us  to  conquer,  and  who 
could  save  his  country  from  destruction,  could  not  be  made  general 
till  the  term  of  his  election  expired?  Before  that  time  we  might  be 
conquered  by  our  enemies.  This  will  apply  to  civil  as  well  as  mili- 
tary offices.  It  is  impolitic  to  exclude  from  the  service  of  his  coun- 
try, in  any  office,  the  man  who  may  be  most  capable  of  discharging 
its  duties,  when  they  are  most  wanting. 

The  honorable  gentleman  said,  that  those  who  go  to  congress 
will  look  forward  to  offices  as  a  compensation  for  their  services, 
rather  than  salaries.  Does  he  recollect  that  they  shall  not  fill  offices 
created  by  themselves?  When  they  go  to  congress  the  old  offices 
will  be  filled.  They  cannot  make  any  probable  calculation  that 
the  men  in  office  will  die,  or  forfeit  their  offices.  As  they  cannot 
get  any  new  offices,  one  of  these  contingencies  must  happen  before 
they  can  get  any  office  at  all.    The  chance  of  getting  an  office  is 


3l6      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

therefore  so  remote,  and  so  very  distant,  that  it  cannot  be  considered 
as  a  sufficient  reason  to  operate  on  their  minds  to  deviate  from  their 
duty. 

Let  any  man  calcu  ate  in  his  own  mind,  the  improbability  of  a 
member  of  the  general  government  getting  into  an  office,  when  he 
cannot  fill  any  office  newly  created,  and  when  he  finds  all  the  old 
offices  filled  at  the  time  he  enters  into  congress.  Let  him  view  the 
danger  and  impolicy  of  precluding  a  member  of  congress  from  hold- 
ing existing  offices,  and  the  danger  of  making  one  government  depend- 
ent on  another,  and  he  will  find  that  both  clauses  deserve  applause. 

The  observations  made  by  several  honorable  members  illustrate 
my  opinion,  that  it  is  impossible  to  devise  any  system  agreeable  to 
all.  —  When  objections  so  contradictory  are  brought  against  it,  how 
shall  we  decide?  Some  gentlemen  object  to  it,  because  they  may 
make  their  wages  too  high — Others  object  to  it,  because  they  may 
make  them  too  low!  If  it  is  to  be  perpetually  attacked  by  prin- 
ciples so  repugnant,  we  may  cease  to  discuss.  For  what  is  the  object 
of  our  discussion? — Truth,  sir.  To  draw  a  true  and  just  conclu- 
sion. Can  this  be  done  without  rational  premises  and  syllogistic 
reasoning. 

As  to  the  British  parliament,  it  is  nearly  as  he  says.  But  how 
does  it  apply  to  this  case?  Suppose  their  compensations  had  been 
appointed  by  the  state  governments,  or  fixed  in  the  constitution  — 
Would  it  be  a  safe  government  for  the  union,  if  its  members  depended 
on  receiving  their  salaries  from  other  political  bodies  at  a  distance, 
and  fully  competent  to  withhold  them?  Its  existence  would  at  best 
be  but  precarious.  If  they  were  fixed  in  the  constitution,  they 
might  become  extremely  inadequate,  and  produce  the  very  evil 
which  gentlemen  seem  to  fear.  For  then  a  man  of  the  highest 
merit  could  not  act  unless  he  were  wealthy.  This  is  the  most  deli- 
cate part  in  the  organization  of  a  republican  government.  It  is 
the  most  difficult  to  establish  on  unexceptionable  grounds.  It 
appears  to  me  most  eligible  as  it  is.  The  constitution  has  taken  a 
medium  between  the  two  extremes,  and  perhaps  with  more  wisdom 
than  either  the  British  or  the  state  governments,  with  respect  to 
their  eligibility  to  offices.  They  can  fill  no  new  offices  created  by 
themselves,  nor  old  ones  of  which  they  encreased  the  salaries.  If 
they  were  excluded  altogether,  it  is  possible  that  other  disadvantages 
might  accrue  from  it,  besides  the  impolicy  and  injustice  of  depriving 
them  of  a  common  privilege.  They  will  not  relinquish  their  legis- 
lative in  order  to  accept  other  offices.  They  will  more  probably 
confer  them  on  their  friends  and  connections.  If  this  be  an  incon- 
venience, it  is  incident  to  all  governments.    After  having  heard  a 


APPENDIX  A,    CCX  3I7 

variety  of  principles  developed,  I  thought  that  on  which  it  is  estab- 
lished the  least  exceptionable,  and  it  appears  to  me  sufficiently  well 

guarded.     ... 

(The  jth  section  read.) 

Mr.  Grayson  objected  to  the  power  of  the  senate  to  propose  or 
concur  with  amendments  to  money  bills.  He  looked  upon  the 
power  of  proposing  amendments  to  be  equal  in  principle  to  that 
of  originating,  and  that  they  were  in  fact  the  same.  As  this  was, 
in  his  opinion,  a  departure  from  that  great  principle  which  required 
that  the  immediate  representatives  of  the  people  only  should  inter- 
fere with  money  bills;  he  wished  to  know  the  reasons  on  which  it 
was  founded.  The  lords  in  England  had  never  been  allowed  to 
intermeddle  with  money  bills.  He  knew  not  why  the  senate  should. 
In  the  lower  house,  said  he,  the  people  are  represented  according 
to  their  numbers.  In  the  upper  house,  the  states  are  represented 
in  their  political  capacities.  Delaware  or  Rhode-Island  has  as  many 
representatives  here  as  Massachusetts.  Why  should  the  senate 
have  a  right  to  intermeddle  with  money,  when  the  representation 
is  neither  equal  or  just.^ 

Mr.  Madison.  —  Mr.  Chairman  —  The  criticism  made  by  the 
honorable  member,  is,  that  there  is  an  ambiguity  in  the  words,  and 
that  it  is  not  clearly  ascertained  where  the  origination  of  money 
bills  may  take  place.  I  suppose  the  first  part  of  the  clause  is  suffi- 
ciently expressed  to  exclude  all  doubts.  The  gentlemen  who  com- 
posed the  convention  divided  in  opinion,  concerning  the  utility  of 
confining  this  to  any  particular  branch.  Whatever  it  be  in  Great- 
Britain,  there  is  a  sufficient  difference  between  us  and  them  to  render 
it  inapplicable  to  this  country.  It  always  appeared  to  me  to  be  a 
matter  of  no  great  consequence,  whether  the  senate  had  a  right  of 
originating,  or  proposing  amendments  to  money  bills  or  not.  To 
withhold  it  from  them  would  create  disagreeable  disputes.  Some 
American  constitutions  make  no  difference.  Virginia  and  South- 
Carolina,  are,  I  think,  the  only  states  where  this  power  is  restrained. 
In  Massachusetts,  and  other  states,  the  power  of  proposing  amend- 
ments is  vested  unquestionably  in  their  senates.  No  inconvenience 
has  resulted  from  it.  On  the  contrary,  with  respect  to  South-Caro- 
lina, this  clause  is  continually  a  source  of  disputes.  When  a  bill 
comes  from  the  other  house,  the  senate  entirely  rejects  it,  and  this 
causes  contentions.  When  you  send  a  bill  to  the  senate,  without 
the  power  of  making  any  alteration  you  force  them  to  reject  the  bill 
altogether,  when  it  would  be  necessary  and  advantageous  that  it 
should  pass.  The  power  of  proposing  alterations  removes  this 
inconvenience,  and  does  not  appear  to  me  at  all  objectionable.     I 


3l8     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

should  have  no  objection  to  their  having  a  right  of  originating  such 
bills.  People  would  see  what  was  done,  and  it  would  add  the  intel- 
ligence of  one  house  to  that  of  the  other.  It  would  be  still  in  the 
power  of  the  other  house  to  obstruct  any  injudicious  measure  pro- 
posed by  them.  There  is  no  land-mark  or  constitutional  provision 
in  Great-Britain,  which  prohibits  the  house  of  lords  from  inter- 
meddling with  money  bills;  but  the  house  of  commons  have 
established  this  rule.  Yet  the  lords  insist  on  their  having  a  right 
to  originate  them,  as  they  possess  great  property,  as  well  as  the 
commons,  and  are  taxed  like  them.  The  house  of  commons  object 
to  their  claim,  least  they  should  too  lavishly  make  grants  to  the 
crown,  and  increase  the  taxes.  The  honorable  member  says,  that 
there  is  no  difference  between  the  right  of  originating  bills,  and  pro- 
posing amendments.  There  is  some  difference,  though  not  consider- 
able. If  any  grievances  should  happen  in  consequence  of  unwise 
regulations  in  revenue  matters,  the  odium  would  be  divided,  which 
will  now  be  thrown  on  the  house  of  representatives.  But  you  may 
safely  lodge  this  power  of  amending  with  the  senate.  When  a  bill 
is  sent  with  proposed  amendments  to  the  house  of  representatives, 
if  they  find  the  alterations  defective,  they  are  not  conclusive.  The 
house  of  representatives  are  the  judges  of  their  propriety,  and  the 
recommendation  of  the  senate  is  nothing.  The  experience  of  this 
state  justifies  this  clause.  —  The  house  of  delegates  has  employed 
weeks  in  forming  a  money  bill;  and  because  the  senate  had  no 
power  of  proposing  amendments,  the  bill  was  lost  altogether;  and  a 
new  bill  obliged  to  be  again  introduced,  when  the  insertion  of  one 
line  by  the  senate  would  have  done.  Those  gentlemen  who  oppose 
this  clause  will  not  object  to  it,  when  they  recollect  that  the  sen- 
ators are  appointed  by  the  states,  as  the  present  members  of  con- 
gress are  appointed.  For,  as  they  will  guard  the  political  interests 
of  the  states  in  other  respects,  they  will  attend  to  them  very  prob- 
ably in  their  amendments  to  money  bills.  I  think  this  power,  for 
these  considerations,  is  useful  and  necessary. 


•  ■  • 


{The  Sth  section  read,) 

Mr.  Clay  wished  to  be  informed,  why  the  congress  were  to  have 
power  to  provide  for  calling  forth  the  militia,  to  put  the  laws  of  the 
union  in  execution. 

Mr.  Madison  supposed  the  reasons  of  this  power  to  be  so  obvious 
that  they  would  occur  to  most  gentlemen.  If  resistance  should  be 
made  to  the  execution  of  the  laws,  he  said,  it  ought  to  be  overcome. 
This  could  be  done  only  two  ways;  either  by  regular  forces,  or  by 
the  people.     By  one  or  the  other  it  must  unquestionably  be  done. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXI  319 

If  insurrections  should  arise,  or  invasions  should  take  place,  the  people 
ought  unquestionably  to  be  employed  to  suppress  and  repel  them, 
rather  than  a  standing  army.  The  best  way  to  do  these  things, 
was  to  put  the  militia  on  a  good  and  sure  footing,  and  enable  the 
government  to  make  use  of  their  services  when  necessary.    .  .  . 

Governor  Randolph.  .  .  .  With  respect  to  a  standing  army,  I 
believe  there  was  not  a  member  in  the  federal  convention  who  did 
not  feel  indignation  at  such  an  institution.  What  remedy  then 
could  be  provided?  —  Leave  the  country  defenceless?  In  order  to 
provide  for  our  defence,  and  exclude  the  dangers  of  a  standing  army, 
the  general  defence  is  left  to  those  who  are  the  objects  of  defence. 
It  is  left  to  the  militia  who  will  suffer  if  they  become  the  instruments 
of  tyranny.  The  general  government  must  have  power  to  call  them 
forth  when  the  general  defence  requires  it.  In  order  to  produce  greater 
security,  the  state  governments  are  to  appoint  the  officers.  The  presi- 
dent, who  commands  them  when  in  the  actual  service  of  the  union,  is 
appointed  secondarily  by  the  people.  —  This  is  a  further  security.  It 
is  not  incredible  that  men  who  are  interested  in  the  happiness  of 
their  country,  whose  friends,  relations,  and  connections,  must  be  in- 
volved in  the  fate  of  their  country,  should  turn  against  their  country? 
I  appeal  to  every  man,  whether,  if  any  of  our  own  officers  were 
called  upon  to  destroy  the  liberty  of  their  country,  he  believes  they 
would  assent  to  such  an  act  of  suicide?  The  state  governments  hav- 
ing the  power  of  appointing  them,  may  elect  men  who  are  the  most 
remarkable  for  their  virtue  &  attachment  to  their  country.    .  .  . 

Mr.  Madison,  .  .  .  The  power  of  regulating  the  time,  place, 
and  manner  of  elections,  must  be  vested  some  where.  It  could  not 
be  fixed  in  the  constitution  without  involving  great  inconveniences. 
—  They  could  then  have  no  authority  to  adjust  the  regulations  to 
the  changes  of  circumstances.  The  question  then  is,  whether  it 
ought  to  be  fixed  unalterably  in  the  state  governments,  or  subject  to 
the  controul  of  the  general  government.  Is  it  not  obvious  that  the 
general  government  would  be  destroyed  without  this  controul?  It  has 
already  been  demonstrated  that  it  will  produce  many  inconveniences. 


CCXI.   Daniel  Carroll:  Notes  and  Correspondence.^ 

Copy  of  what  Col.  Mercer  gave  me  [Daniel  Carroll]  at  Annapolis 
during  the  sitting  of  the  Assembly. 

^  These  pftpen  in  the  handwriting  of  Daniel  CairoU  were  found  among  the 
McHenry  MSS.  They  are  reprinted  here  from  the  American  Historical  Rernew^  XI, 
619-624.  They  are  put  here  under  the  date  of  the  last  two  items,  —  the  letters  of 
McHemy  —  in  order  to  bring  them  all  together.    See  also  CCIII  above. 


320     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Mr.  Mercer  had  during  the  sitting  of  the  G>nvention  at  Fha.  a 
list  of  the  members  of  that  body  taken  down  on  the  printed  Con- 
stitution, and  against  their  names,  these  words  —  for  and  against. 
Mr.  McHenry  seeing  it  (without  its  being  shewn  to  him)  at  the  table 
where  the  Members  from  the  State  sat  copied  it  without  the  leave 
or  interference  of  Mr.  Mercer  and  added  Mr.  Mercers  name  with 
those  of  Mr.  Martin  and  himself — as  against.  Mr  Mercer  askd 
him  what  authority  he  had  for  setting  him  down  against.  Mr. 
McHenry  made  some  reply  rather  in  a  light  manner  —  that  he  had 
left  Mr.  Mercer  room  to  change  side,  or  to  that  effect.  Some  con- 
versation took  place  but  not  of  so  serious  a  nature,  as  to  make  any 
impression  on  Mr.  Mercers  memory,  but  he  is  persuaded  that  he 
entered  into  no  explanation  of  the  list  to  authorize  Mr.  McHenry 
to  say  the  members  were  markd  as  for  a  Kingly  or  national  Govern- 
ment, and  the  list  being  on  the  Constitution  with  the  words  for  and 
against  and  nothing  else,  Mr.  McHenry  cou'd  have  no  authority 
from  that.  Mr.  Mercer  and  Mr.  McHenry  were  not  in  the  habit 
of  Confidential  communication  —  nor  has  Mr.  Mercer  ever  mentioned 
any  political  opinion  as  the  opinion  of  Mr.  D.  Carroll  to  any  one. 
In  a  variety  of  private  conversations  it  is  probable  he  received  the 
opinions  of  almost  every  Member  in  Convention^  but  he  has  never 
related  more  than  what  came  from  them  in  debate.  At  that  moment 
the  Cant  expression  was  high  toned  Government  which  superceeded 
the  usual  descriptions  of  Monarchy,  Aristocracy,  or  Democracy  and 
which  perswades  Mr.  Mercer  that  the  word  Kingly  coud  never  have 
been  used  by  him. 

But  as  Mr.  Martins  information  to  Mr.  Mercer  of  what  passd 
between  him  and  Mr.  McHenry  fixes  it,  that  Mr.  McHenry  told 
him,  that  he  knew  it  of  his  own  knowledge  and  from  his  acquaintance 
with  the  Characters,  Mr.  Mercer  thinks  that  Mr.  McHenry  has 
very  improperly  introduc'd  him  into  the  business. 

Extracts  from  Mr.  McHenrys  Letter  to  me  [Daniel  Carroll] 
dated  the  9th  of  Jan*y  88 

Nothing  that  Mr.  Martin  can  say  can  make  me  uneasy,  or  give 
me  any  Surprize.  I  will  tell  you  in  a  few  words  the  ground  of  his 
misrepresentation.  I  observed  Mr.  Mercer  one  day  in  Convention 
taking  down  the  names  of  the  members  on  a  blank  side  of  his  report 
and  affixing  to  most  of  them  the  word  for  or  against.  I  askd  him 
what  question  occasioned  his  being  so  particular,  upon  which  he 
told  me,  it  was  no  question,  but  those  marked  with  a  for  were  in 
favor  of  Monarchy.  How  do  you  learn  that?  No  matter  said  he 
the  thing  is  so.     I  then  askM  him  to  let  me  copy  it,  and  Mr.  Martin 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXI  321 

took  a  copy  from  mine,  which  was  also  on  a  blank  page  of  my  report. 
This  is  the  whole  history,  and  you  may  make  what  use  of  it  you 
please. 

The  following  is  a  copy  Mr.  Martins  letter  to  me  [Daniel  Carroll] 
in  consequence  of  what  passd  between  us  on  Col.  Mercer's  calling 
him  to  me,  at  the  time  we  were  in  conversation  — 

May  20th.  1788 
Agreeable  to  your  request  I  here  present  you  the  Substance  of 
our  this  days  conversation  — 

Sometime  after  Mr.  McHenrys  return  to  Convention  conversing 
on  the  System  then  under  discussion,  and  of  the  object  and  views  of 
the  Members  of  the  Convention,  Mr.  McHenry  told  me  that  a  very 
considerable  Number  of  them  were  in  favour  of  a  Monarchical 
Government  (under  certain  limitations  and  restrictions  as  I  con- 
cluded) and  shewed  me  a  list  of  the  then  attending  Members  from 
each  State  marked  with  the  words  for  and  against^  to  distinguish 
such  as  were  for  or  against  such  a  Government;  this  list  was  written 
on  a  blank  page  of  his  printed  report  of  the  Committee  of  detail, 
and  I  copied  it  on  a  blank  page  of  mine  with  the  same  distinctive 
marks — more  than  twenty  were  noted  in  the  list  as  being  in  favour 
of  a  Monarchy,  among  those  was  yr  name. 

I  observed  to  Mr  McHenry  that  as  to  many  of  them  I  perfectly 
concurd  in  opinion,  but  as  to  some,  I  thought  he  was  mistaken  —  he 
replied  I  might  depend  upon  it,  he  was  better  informed  on  the  Sub- 
ject, and  better  knew  their  sentiments  than  I  did,  and  that  every 
one  who  was  there  distinguisd  in  favor  of  a  King  was  so  in  reality; 
Mr  McHenry  did  not  mention  to  me  particularly  whom  he  drew  the 
inference  or  how  he  had  obtained  the  Knowledge  or  the  belief  which 
he  expressed,  but  I  naturally  concluded  that  it  proceeded  from  the 
Sentiments  he  had  heard  them  express,  —  from  information  which 
had  been  given  to  him  by  others  or  from  their  Conduct  in  Conven- 
tion, or  from  all  these  Sources  combin'd.  I  have  no  possible  recol- 
lection that  Col.  Mercers  name  was  mentiond  to  me  on  that  or 
any  other  occasion  by  Mr  McHenry  as  having  given  him  any  infor- 
mation on  the  Subject,  on  the  contrary,  I  well  remember  that  I 
was  surprizd  when  I  heard  Col  Mercers  name  lately  mentioned  on 
the  occasion,  as  being  totally  unacquainted  with  his  sentiments  on 
that  Subject,  and  as  being  ignorant  that  he  had  ever  expressed  such 
Sentiments.  And  I  am  well  convinced  from  the  fullest  recollection 
and  reflection  that  Mr.  McHenry  did  not  mention  to  me  any  person 
in  particular  from  whom  he  had  receiv'd  the  information  or  who  had 
impressd  on  his  mind  the  opinion  he  at  that  time  entertaind. 


322     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

At  the  time  we  were  before  the  Assembly  to  give  information 
Mr.  McHenry's  report  of  the  Committee  with  other  papers  were 
laying  on  the  Table,  at  that  time  the  list  I  have  mention'd  was  upon 
it;  And  as  Mr.  McHenry  endeavour'd  to  impress  an  Idea  that  there 
cou'd  be  no  foundation  for  my  Sentiment,  that  tho'  but  few  members 
openly  avowed  their  being  for  a  Monarchical  Government,  yet  there 
were  a  much  greater  number  who  secretly  favord  that  System, 
I  with  difficulty  restraind  myself  from  laying  my  hands  upon  it. 
and  producing  it  to  the  Assembly  as  a  proof  that  he  had  himself 
once  entertaind  Similar  Sentiments,  altho'  he  might  since  be  con- 
vincd  of  his  error. — 

The  foregoing  is  a  just  State  of  what  passd  between  Mr  McHenry 
and  myself  on  the  Subject  concerning  which  you  expressed  a  desire 
that  I  wou'd  give  you  information,  and  you  have  my  full  permission 
to  make  any  use  of  it  which  you  may  think  proper. 

I  am  sr.  yr.  Obt  Sert. 
Copy.  Luther  Martin 

The  following  is  from  a  Scrip  of  paper  sent  me  [Daniel  Carroll] 
by  my  Brother  from  Mr  McHenry  — 

I  mentioned  to  Mr  Mercer,  at  the  Governors  that  Mr  Danl. 
Carroll  had  been  made  very  uneasy  by  Mr  Martins  having  reported, 
that  when  in  Convention  he  had  been  for  a  Kingly  Government, 
and  related  the  Substance  of  what  I  had  written  to  Mr.  Carroll  on 
that  Subject.  Mr  Mercer  replied  that  he  had  put  down  no  such 
thing  opposite  the  names,  and  that  he  only  meant  that  those  which 
had  Jot  annez'd  to  them  were  for  a  national  Government.  I  said  I 
did  not  know  what  he  meant,  but  that  he  told  me  in  Convention 
when  I  copied  the  names  from  his  paper  that  those  mark'd  for  were 
for  a  King.  He  spoke  of  Mr  Martins  having  acted  improperly  on 
this  occasion  and  some  others. 

Daniel  Carroll  to  Reverend  John  Carroll. 
DearBroihn,  June  nth.  1788 

The  inclosd  ^  is  for  Mr.  McHenry.  During  a  long  course  of 
Public  Service,  I  have  never  before  heard  of  any  imputation  being 
cast  on  my  conduct.  This  is  of  a  nature  which  woud  deservedly 
deprive  me  of  the  confidence  of  the  Public,  at  least.  My  character 
I  hold  dear,  and  will  maintain  it  against  attempts  to  injure  it.  Where 
the  blame  is,  I  will  not  undertake  to  determine.  I  did  not  conceive 
it  probable,  that  such  a  paper  as  is  mentiond  in  Mr.  McHenrys 

^  Appsrently  the  items  printed  sbove. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXI  323 

Letter  of  the  9th  of  Jany.  coud  have  been  circulated  among  some 
of  the  deputies  from  Maryland  without  my  privity,  much  less,  that 
Mr  McHenry  woud  furnish  Mr.  Martin  with  one  with  my  name  to 
it.    Until  lately  I  woud  not  believe  that  my  name  was  on  the  list. 

Dear  Brother 

Yrs  etca — 

[Address:]  The  Revd.  Mr.  John  CarroU.  ^^^  Carroll. 

James  McHenrt  to  Reverend  John  Carroll.^ 

Baltimore  16  June  1788. 

I  have  read  Mr.  Martins  and  Mr.  Mercers  information  to  Mr.  D. 
Carroll.  With  respect  to  their  statements,  I  can  only  subjoin,  to 
what  I  have  already  written  to  Mr.  Carroll,  that  I  copied  the  list 
in  question  with  Mr.  Mercers  permission,  without  adding  any  thing 
of  my  own  or  altering  any  thing  of  his,  which  may  be  ascertained 
by  comparing  the  two  together;  and  that  on  Mr  Merc[e]rs  changing 
his  seat  to  another  part  of  the  house,  Mr.  Martin  asked  me,  what  I 
had  been  copying,  and  without  waiting  for  an  answer  took  up  my 
report  and  read  over  the  list.  I  told  him,  I  had  copied  it  from  a 
list  made  out  by  Mr.  Mercer,  and  that  the  names  having /or  annexed 
to  them,  Mr.  Mercer  said,  were  for  a  king.  Mr.  Martin  asked  me  to 
let  him  take  a  copy,  and  I  permitted  it,  and  this  was  all  the  con- 
versation I  held  then  or  at  any  other  time  with  Mr.  Martin  on  that 
subject. 

This  relation  is  copied  in  substance  from  my  note  book  of  the 
transactions  of  the  convention,  which  I  wrote  down  daily,^  and  is 
besides  fresh  in  my  memory  so  that  there  can  be  no  mistake  upon 
my  part.  I  did  not  shew  the  list  to  Mr.  Carroll  or  Mr  Jenifer  or 
any  other  person  (except  Martin  who  got  it  by  surprise),  because  I 
took  it  only  with  a  view  to  relate  the  circumstances  attending  its 
origin  in  case  it  should  ever  be  brought  forward  to  answer  improper 
purposes;  nor  have  I  at  any  time  since  mentioned  any  thing  respect- 
ing either  the  list  or  its  object,  to  any  person  whatever  but  Mr.  D. 
Carroll  and  his  brother. 

Mr.  D.  Carroll  has  my  consent  to  make  what  use  he  may  think 
proper  of  the  above. 

James  McHenry. 

^  The  following  documents  are  rough  drafts  of  two  letters  in  McHenrsr's  hand- 
writing. 

'  By  reference  to  McHesuy's  notes  of  August  6,  it  will  be  seen  that  the  item  in 
question  is  an  insertion. 


324     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

James  McHenry  to  Reverend  John  Carroll. 
j^  ^.  Baltimore  16  June  1788. 

You  have  been  so  kind  as  to  put  your  brothers  letter  into  my 
hand.  I  have  read  it  attentively  and  cannot  help  thinking  that  he 
has  looked  for  an  illustration  where  his  own  experience  might  have 
taught  him  it  could  not  possibly  be  found.  He  doubts  where  the 
blame  lays.  When  did  Mr.  Martin  and  Mr.  Mercer  become  author- 
ities? He  suggests  also  that  I  should  have  made  him  acquainted  with 
the  list.  If  I  had  shewn  it  to  him,  I  must  have  shewn  it  to  others 
who  were  equally  affected  by  it,  with  some  of  whom  I  have  been 
for  these  thirteen  years  past  in  the  closest  habits  of  intimacy  and 
friendship.  Such  a  step,  he  must  be  aware,  would  have  brought  on 
immediate  personal  altercations  (at  a  most  critical  time)  with  a  man 
prone  to  anger,  and  excessively  captious.  I  did  what  I  thought 
much  safer  and  more  decisive.  I  reserved  myself  to  expose  it  pub- 
licly in  case  a  public  use  had  been  made  of  it.  This  has  never  been 
done  tho'  the  fairest  opportunity  in  the  world  was  offred  for  doing 
it.  Can  any  one  who  witnessed  that  occasion,  who  heard  me  charge 
Mr.  Martin  with  uttering  falsehoods,  entertain  a  belief  that  his 
representation  to  Mr.  Carroll  is  true,  or  that  he  would  have  remained 
silent  and  condemned  before  the  general  assembly,  if  he  could  have 
given  me  as  an  evidence  of  what  he  there  asserts.^  As  to  Mr.  Mercer, 
I  wish  your  brother  had  mentioned  what  he  has  recently  done  or 
said  that  has  induced  him  to  think  more  favorably  of  his  veracity. 

I  have  only  to  regret  in  this  affair  that  my  anxiety  for  the  public 
good  and  your  brothers  quiet,  for  whom  I  have  the  most  sincere 
friendship,  should  have  occasioned  him  a  moments  uneasiness,  and 
am  only  surprised  that  he  has  not  treated  this  as  he  has  the  other 
fictions  which  have  been  gravely  reported  to  the  world  for  truths. 

I  am  very  respectfully 

Sir  Your  obt.  and  hble  st. 

[Address:]  Revd.  John  Carroll  Esqr. 


CCXn.   Debate  in  the  Virginia  Convention.* 

June  17,  1788. 
{The  first  clause^  of  the  ninth  section^  read,) 

.  .  .  Mr.  Madison.  —  Mr.  Chairman  —  I  should  conceive  this 
clause  to  be  impolitic,  if  it  were  one  of  those  things  which  could 
be  excluded  without   encountering   greater   evils.  —  The   southern 

^  Robertson,  Dehaus  of  the  Cowentian  of  Virginia,  1788  (2d  edit.,  1805),  pp.  321- 
345- 


APPENDIX  A,    CCXII  325 

States  would  not  have  entered  into  the  union  of  America,  with- 
out the  temporary  permission  of  that  trade.  And  if  they  were 
excluded  from  the  union,  the  consequences  might  be  dreadful  to 
them  and  to  us.  We  are  not  in  a  worse  situation  than  before. 
That  traffic  is  prohibited  by  our  laws,  and  we  may  continue  the 
prohibition.  The  union  in  general  is  not  in  a  worse  situation. 
Under  the  articles  of  confederation,  it  might  be  continued  for- 
ever: But  by  this  clause  an  end  may  be  put  to  it  after  twenty 
years.  There  is  therefore  an  amelioration  of  our  circumstances. 
A  tax  may  be  laid  in  the  mean  time;  but  it  is  limited,  otherwise 
congress  might  lay  such  a  tax  as  would  amount  to  a  prohibition. 
From  the  mode  of  representation  and  taxation,  congress  cannot 
lay  such  a  tax  on  slaves  as  will  amount  to  manumission.  An- 
other clause  secures  us  that  property  which  we  now  possess.  At 
present,  if  any  slave  elopes  to  any  of  those  states  where  slaves  are 
free,  he  becomes  emancipated  by  their  laws.  For  the  laws  of  the 
states  are  uncharitable  to  one  another  in  this  respect.  But  in  this 
constitution,  "no  person  held  to  service,  or  labor,  in  one  state,  under 
the  laws  thereof,  escaping  into  another,  shall  in  consequence  of  any 
law  or  regulation  therein,  be  discharged  from  such  service  or  labor; 
but  shall  be  delivered  up  on  claim  of  the  party  to  whom  such  service 
or  labor  may  be  due."  —  This  clause  was  expressly  inserted  to  enable 
owners  of  slaves  to  reclaim  them.  This  is  a  better  security  than  any 
that  now  exists.  No  power  is  given  to  the  general  government  to 
interpose  with  respect  to  the  property  in  slaves  now  held  by  the 
states.  The  taxation  of  this  state  being  equal  only  to  its  represen- 
tation, such  a  tax  cannot  be  laid  as  he  supposes.  They  cannot  pre- 
vent the  importation  of  slaves  for  twenty  years;  but  after  that  period 
they  can.  The  gentlemen  from  South-Carolina  and  Georgia  argued 
in  this  manner:  —  "We  have  now  liberty  to  import  this  species  of 
property,  and  much  of  the  property  now  possessed,  has  been  pur- 
chased, or  otherwise  acquired,  in  contemplation  of  improving  it  by 
the  assistance  of  imported  slaves.  What  would  be  the  consequence 
of  hindering  us  from  it?  The  slaves  of  Virginia  would  rise  in  value, 
and  we  would  be  obliged  to  go  to  your  markets."  I  need  not  expa- 
tiate on  this  subject.  Great  as  the  evil  is,  a  dismemberment  of  the 
union  would  be  worse.  If  those  states  should  disunite  from  the  other 
states,  for  not  indulging  them  in  the  temporary  continuance  of  this 
traffic,  they  might  solicit  and  obtain  aid  from  foreign  powers.    .  .  . 

{The  2dj  3^,  and  4th  clauses  read.) 

.  .  .  Mr.  Madison  replied,  that  even  the  southern  states,  who 
were  most  affected,  were  perfectly  satisfied  with  this  provision,  and 


326     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

dreaded  no  danger  to  the  property  they  now  hold.  It  appeared 
to  him,  that  the  general  government  would  not  intermeddle  with 
that  property  for  twenty  years,  but  to  lay  a  tax  on  every  slave  im- 
ported, not  exceeding  ten  dollars;  and  that  after  the  expiration  of 
that  period  they  might  prohibit  the  traffic  altogether.  The  census 
in  the  constitution  was  intended  to  introduce  equality  in  the  burdens 
to  be  laid  on  the  community. — No  gentleman  objected  to  laying 
duties,  imposts,  and  excises,  uniformly.  But  uniformity  of  taxes 
would  be  ^bversive  of  the  principles  of  equality:  For  that  it  was 
not  possible  to  select  any  article  which  would  be  easy  for  one  state, 
but  what  would  be  heavy  for  another.  —  .  .  • 

{The  5/A  and  6th  clauses  read.) 

Mr.  George  Mason^  apprehended  the  loose  expression  of  *' pub- 
lication from  time  to  time,"  was  applicable  to  any  time.  It  was 
equally  applicable  to  monthly  and  septennial  periods.  It  might 
be  extended  ever  so  much.  The  reasons  urged  in  favor  of  this 
ambiguous  expression,  was,  that  there  might  be  some  matters  which 
might  require  secrecy.  In  matters  relative  to  military  operations, 
and  foreign  negotiations,  secrecy  was  necessary  sometimes.  But 
he  did  not  conceive  that  the  receipts  and  expenditures  of  the  public 
money  ought  ever  to  be  concealed.  The  people,  he  affirmed,  had  a 
right  to  know  the  expenditures  of  their  money.  But  that  this 
expression  was  so  loose,  it  might  be  concealed  forever  from  them, 
and  might  afford  opportunities  of  misapplying  the  public  money, 
and  sheltering  those  who  did  it.  He  concluded  it  to  be  as  excep- 
tionable as  any  clause  in  so  ^ew  words  could  be.     ... 

Mr.  Madison  thought  it  much  better  than  if  it  had  mentioned 
any  specified  period.  Because  if  the  accounts  of  the  public  receipts 
and  expenditures  were  to  be  published  at  short  stated  periods,  they 
would  not  be  so  full  and  connected  as  would  be  necessary  for  a 
thorough  comprehension  of  them,  and  detection  of  any  errors.  But 
by  giving  them  an  opportunity  of  publishing  them  from  time  to 
time,  as  might  be  found  easy  and  convenient,  they  would  be  more 
full  and  satisfactory  to  the  public,  and  would  be  sufficiently  frequent. 
He  thought,  after  all,  that  this  provision  went  farther  than  the 
constitution  of  any  state  in  the  union,  or  perhaps  in  the  world. 

Mr.  Mason  replied,  that  in  the  confederation  the  public  pro- 
ceedings were  to  be  published  monthly,  which  was  infinitely  better 
than  depending  on  men's  virtue  to  publish  them  or  not,  as  they 
might  please.  If  there  was  no  such  provision  in  the  constitution 
of  Virginia,  gentlemen  ought  to  consider  the  difference  between  such 
a  full  representation,  dispersed  and  mingled  with  every  part  of  the 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXII  327 

community,  aa  the  state  representation  was,  and  such  an  inadequate 
representation  as  this  was.  One  might  be  safely  trusted,  but  not 
the  other. 

Mr.  Madison  replied,  that  the  inconveniences  which  had  been 
experienced  from  the  confederation  in  that  respect,  had  their  weight 
with  him  in  recommending  this  in  preference  to  it;  for  that  it  was 
impossible,  in  such  short  intervals,  to  adjust  the  public  accounts 
in  any  satisfactory  manner.     .  •  . 

Governor  Randolph.  .  .  .  The  next  restriction  is,  that  no  titles 
of  nobility  shall  be  granted  by  th^  United  States.  If  we  cast  our  eyes 
to  the  manner  in  which  titles  of  nobility  first  orginated,  we  shall  find 
this  restriction  founded  on  the  same  principles.  These  sprung  from 
military  and  civil  offices;  Both  are  put  in  the  hands  of  the  united 
states,  and  therfore  I  presume  it  to  be  an  exception  to  that  power. 

The  last  restriction  restrains  any  persons  in  office  from  accept- 
ing of  any  present  or  emolument,  title  or  office,  from  any  foreign 
prince  or  state.  It  must  have  been  observed  before,  that  though 
the  confederation  had  restricted  congress  from  exercising  any  powers 
not  given  them,  yet  they  inserted  it,  not  from  any  apprehension  of 
usurpation,  but  for  greater  security.  This  restriction  is  provided 
to  prevent  corruption.  All  men  have  a  natural  inherent  right  of 
receiving  emoluments  from  any  one,  unless  they  be  restrained  by 
the  regulations  of  the  community.  An  accident  which  actually 
happened,  operated  in  producing  the  restriction.  A  box  was  pre- 
sented to  our  ambassador  by  the  king  of  our  allies.^  It  was  thought 
proper,  in  order  to  exclude  corruption  and  foreign  influence,  to  pro- 
hibit any  one  in  office  from  receiving  or  holding  any  emoluments 
from  foreign  states.  I  believe,  that  if  at  that  moment,  when  we 
were  in  harmony  with  the  king  of  France,  we  had  supposed  that  he 
was  corrupting  our  ambassador,  it  might  have  disturbed  that  con- 
fidence, and  diminished  that  mutual  friendship,  which  contributed 
to  carry  us  through  the  war.      .  .  . 

{The  first  clause ^  of  the  tenth  section^  read.) 

•  •  .  Mr.  Madison  .  .  .  The  first  clause  of  the  sixth  article,  pro- 
vides, that  ^' All  debts  contracted,  and  engagements  entered  into  before 

*  "Dr.  Franklin  is  the  person  alluded  to  by  Randolph.  In  the  winter  of  1856,  in 
Philadelphia,  under  the  roof  of  a  venerable  granddaughter  of  Dr.  Franklin,  I  saw  the 
beautiful  portrait  of  Louis  XVI,  snuff-box  size,  presented  by  that  king  to  the  doctor. 
As  the  portrait  is  exactly  such  as  is  contained  in  the  snuff-boxes  presented  by  Crowned 
heads,  one  of  which  I  have  seen,  it  is  probable  this  portrait  of  Louis  was  originally 
attached  to  the  box  in  question,  which  has  in  the  lapse  of  years  been  lost  or  given  away 
by  Dr.  Franklin."  H.  B,  Grigsby,  History  of  the  Virginia  Federal  Convention  of 
1788  (Virginia  Historical  Society  Collections,  vols.  9~io),  p.  264. 


328     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  adoption  of  this  constitution,  shall  be  as  valid  against  the 
U.  States  under  this  constitution,  as  under  the  confederation."  He 
affirmed  that  it  was  meant  there  should  be  no  change  with  respect 
to  claims  by  this  political  alteration;  and  that  the  public  would 
stand,  with  respect  to  their  creditors,  as  before.  He  thought  that 
the  validity  of  claims  ought  not  to  diminish  by  the  adoption  of  the 
constitution.  But  however,  it  could  not  increase  the  demands  on 
the  public. 

.  .  •  Governor  Randolph. — Mr.  Chairman  — This  clause  in  spite 
of  the  invective  of  the  gentleman,  is  a  great  favourite  of  mine;  .  .  . 
He  says,  this  clause  will  be  injurious,  and  that  no  scale  can  be  made, 
because  there  is  a  prohibition  on  congress  of  passing  ex  post  facto 
laws.  ,  ,  .  Ex  post  facto  laws,  if  taken  technically,  relate  solely  to 
criminal  cases;  and  my  honorable  colleague  tells  you  that  it  was  so 
interpreted  in  convention.  What  greater  security  can  we  have 
against  arbitrary  proceedings  in  criminal  jurisprudence  than  this? 
In  addition  to  the  interpretation  of  the  convention,  let  me  shew  him 
still  greater  authority.  The  same  clause  provides,  that  no  bill  of 
attainder  shall  be  passed.  It  shews  that  the  attention  of  the  con- 
vention was  drawn  to  criminal  matters  alone.     .  .  . 

Governor  Randolph  could  not  coincide  with  the  construction 
put  by  the  honorable  gentleman  on  ex  post  facto  laws.  The  tech- 
nical meaning  which  confined  such  laws  solely  to  criminal  cases,  was 
followed  in  the  interpretation  of  treaties  between  nations,  and  was 
concurred  in  by  all  civilians.  The  prohibition  of  bills  of  attainder, 
he  thought  a  sufficient  proof,  that  ex  post  facto  laws  related  to  crimi- 
nal cases  only,  and  that  such  was  the  idea  of  the  convention. 

{The  next  clause  read.) 

.  .  .  Mr.  Madison.  —  Mr.  Chairman  —  Let  us  take  a  view  of  the 
relative  situation  of  the  states.  Some  states  export  the  produce  of 
other  states.  Virginia  exports  the  produce  of  North-Carolina; 
Pennsylvania  those  of  Jersey  and  Delaware;  and  Rhode-Island 
those  of  Connecticut  and  Massachusetts.  The  exporting  states 
wished  to  retain  the  power  of  laying  duties  on  exports,  to  enable 
them  to  pay  the  expences  incurred.  The  states  whose  produce  is 
exported  by  other  states,  were  extremely  jealous,  lest  a  contribution 
should  be  raised  of  them  by  the  exporting  states,  by  laying  heavy 
duties  on  their  commodities.  If  this  clause  be  fully  considered,  it 
will  be  found  to  be  more  consistent  with  justice  and  equity  than  any 
other  practicable  mode:  For  if  the  states  had  the  exclusive  impo- 
sition of  duties  on  exports,  they  might  raise  a  heavy  contribution 
of  the  other  states,  for  their  own  exclusive  emoluments.    The  hon- 


APPENDIX  A,    CCXIII  329 

orable  member  who  spoke  in  defence  of  the  clause,  has  fairly  repre- 
sented it.  As  to  the  reimbursement  of  the  loss  that  may  be  sustained 
by  individuals,  a  tax  may  be  laid  on  tobacco  when  brought  to  the 
warehouses,  for  that  purpose.  The  sum  arising  therefrom  may  be 
appropriated  to  it  consistently  with  the  clause.  For  it  only  says, 
that  ''the  tuU  produce  of  all  duties  and  imposts,  laid  by  any  state 
on  imports  or  exports,  shall  be  for  the  use  of  the  treasury  of  the 
United  States,"  which  necessarily  implies  that  all  contingent  charges 
shall  have  been  previously  paid. 

{The  1st  section,  of  the  id  article,  read.) 

.  .  .  Governor  Randolph.  ...  I  will  acknowledge  that  at  one 
stage  of  this  business,  I  had  embraced  the  idea  of  the  honorable  gentle- 
man, that  the  re-eligibility  of  the  president  was  improper.  But  I 
will  acknowledge,  that  on  a  further  consideration  of  the  subject, 
and  attention  to  the  lights  which  were  thrown  upon  it  by  others, 
I  altered  my  opinion  of  the  limitation  of  his  eligibility.  When  we 
consider  the  advantages  arising  to  us  from  it,  we  cannot  object  to  it. 
That  which  has  produced  my  opinion  against  the  limitation  of  his 
eligibility,  is  this  —  that  it  renders  him  more  independent  in  his 
place,  and  more  solicitous  of  promoting  the  interest  of  his  consti- 
tuents. For,  unless  you  put  it  in  his  power  to  be  re-elected,  instead 
of  being  attentive  to  their  interests,  he  will  lean  to  the  augmentation 
of  his  private  emoluments. 


CCXIII.    James  Madison  in  the  Virginia  Convention.^ 

June  18,  1788. 

(The  1st  section,  of  the  id  article,  still  under  consideration.) 

.  .  .  Mr.  Madison.  —  Mr.  Chairman  —  I  will  take  the  liberty  of 
making  a  few  observations  which  may  place  this  in  such  a  light  as 
may  obviate  objections.  It  is  observable,  that  none  of  the  honorable 
members  objecting  to  this,  have  pointed  out  the  right  mode  of  elec- 
tion. It  was  found  difficult  in  the  convention,  and  will  be  found 
so  by  any  Gentleman  who  will  take  the  liberty  of  delineating  a  mode 
of  electing  the  president,  that  would  exclude  those  inconveniences 
which  they  apprehend.  I  would  not  contend  against  some  of  the 
principles  laid  down  by  some  gentlemen  if  the  interests  of  some 
states  only  were  to  be  consulted.  But  there  is  a  great  diversity  of 
interests.  The  choice  of  the  people  ought  to  be  attended  to.  I  have 
found  no  better  way  of  selecting  the  man  in  whom  they  place  the 

^Robertson,  Debates  of  the  Conoention  of  Firginia,  1788  (2d  edit.,  1805),  p.  351. 


330     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

highest  confidence,  than  that  delineated  in  the  plan  of  the  convention 
—  nor  has  the  gentleman  told  us.  Perhaps  it  will  be  found  imprac- 
ticable to  elect  him  by  the  immediate  suffrages  of  the  people.  Diffi- 
culties would  arise  from  the  extent  and  population  of  the  states. 
Instead  of  this  the  people  choose  the  electors.  —  This  can  be  done 
with  ease  and  convenience,  and  will  render  the  choice  more  judicious. 
As  to  the  eventual  voting  by  states,  it  has  my  approbation.  The 
lesser  states,  and  some  large  states,  will  be  generally  pleased  by 
that  mode.  The  deputies  from  the  small  states  argued,  (and  their 
is  some  force  in  their  reasoning)  that  when  the  people  voted,  the 
large  states  evidently  had  the  advantage  over  the  rest,  and  without 
varying  the  mode,  the  interests  of  the  little  states  might  be  neglected 
or  sacrificed.  Here  is  a  compromise.  —  For  in  the  eventual  elec- 
tion, the  small  states  will  have  the  advantage. 


CCXIV.   Debate  in  the  Virginia  Convention.^ 

June  19,  1788. 

(The  1st  and  2d  sections^  of  the  ^d  article^  were  read.) 

.  .  .  Mr.  George  Mason,  .  .  .  The  principle  itself  goes  to  the 
destruction  of  the  legislation  of  the  states,  whether  or  not  it  was 
intended.  As  to  my  own  opinion,  I  most  religiously  and  consci- 
entiously believe,  that  it  was  intended,  though  I  am  not  absolutely 
certain.  But  I  think  it  will  destroy  the  state  governments,  what- 
ever may  have  been  the  intention.  There  are  many  gentlemen  in 
the  United  States  who  think  it  right,  that  we  should  have  one  great 
national  consolidated  government,  and  that  it  was  better  to  bring 
it  about  slonvly  and  imperceptibly,  rather  than  all  at  once.  This 
is  no  reflection  on  any  man,  for  I  mean  none.  To  those  who  think 
that  one  national  consolidated  government  would  be  best  for  America, 
this  extensive  judicial  authority  will  be  agreeable;  but  I  hope  there 
are  many  in  this  convention  of  a  different  opinion,  and  who  see  their 
political  happiness  resting  on  their  state  governments.  I  know, 
from  my  own  knowledge,  many  worthy  gentlemen  of  the  former 
opinion.  —  (Here  Mr.  Madison  interrupted  Mr.  Mason^  and  de- 
manded an  unequivocal  explanation.  As  those  insinuations  might 
create  a  belief,  that  every  member  of  the  late  federal  convention 
was  of  that  opinion,  he  wished  him  to  tell  who  the  gentlemen  were 
to  whom  he  alluded.)  —  Mr.  Mason  then  replied  —  I  shall  never 
refuse  to  explain  myself.  It  is  notorious  that  this  is  a  prevailing 
principle.  —  It  was  at  least  the  opinion  of  many  gentlemen  in  con- 

1  Robertson,  DebaUs  oj  the  Cwwention  of  Fifiinia^  iy88  (sd  edit,  1805),  pp.  371- 
$7». 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXV  33 1 

* 

vention,  and  many  in  the  United  States.  I  do  not  know  what 
explanation  the  honorable  gentleman  asks.  I  can  say  with  great 
truth)  that  the  honorable  gentleman,  in  private  conversation  with 
me,  expressed  himself  against  it:  Neither  did  I  ever  hear  any  of 
the  delegates  from  this  state  advocate  it. 

Mr.  Madison  declared  himself  satisfied  with  this,  unless  the  com- 
mittee thought  themselves  entitled  to  ask  a  further  explanation. 

After  some  desultory  remarks,  Mr.  Mason  continued.  —  I  have 
heard  that  opinion  advocated  by  gentlemen,  for  whose  abilities, 
judgment,  and  knowledge,  I  have  the  highest  reverence  and  respect. 

.  .  .  The  last  clause  is  still  more  improper.  To  give  them  cog^ 
nizance  in  disputes  between  a  state  and  the  citizens  thereof,  is 
utterly  inconsistent  with  reason  or  good  policy. 

Here  Mr.  Nicholas  arose,  and  informed  Mr.  Mason^  that  his 
interpretation  of  this  part  was  not  warranted  by  the  words. 

Mr.  Mason  replied,  that  if  he  recollected  rightly,  the  propriety 
of  the  power  as  explained  by  him,  had  been  contended  for;  but  that 
as  his  memory  had  never  been  good,  and  was  now  much  impaired 
from  his  age,  he  would  not  insist  on  that  interpretation. 


CCXV.   James  Madison  in  the  Virginia  Convention.* 

June  20,  1788. 

{The  1st  and  2d  sections ^  of  the  "^d  article^  still  under  consideration,) 

Mr.  Madison,  —  ...  It  may  be  proper  to  remark,  that  the 
organization  of  the  general  government  for  the  United  States,  was,  in 
all  its  parts,  very  difficult.  —  There  was  a  peculiar  difficulty  in  that 
of  the  Executive.  —  Every  thing  incident  to  it,  must  have  partici- 
pated of  that  difficulty.  —  That  mode  which  was  judged  most  expedi- 
ent was  adopted,  till  experience  should  point  out  one  more  eligible. 
—  This  part  was  also  attended  with  difficulties.  It  claims  the  in- 
dulgence of  a  fair  and  liberal  interpretation.  I  will  not  deny  that, 
according  to  my  view  of  the  subject,  a  more  accurate  attention 
might  place  it  in  terms  which  would  exclude  some  of  the  objections 
now  made  to  it.  But  if  we  take  a  liberal  construction,  I  think  we 
shall  find  nothing  dangerous  or  inadmissible  in  it.  In  compositions 
of  this  kind,  it  is  difficult  to  avoid  technical  terms  which  have  the 
same  meaning.  An  attention  to  this  may  satisfy  gentlemen,  that 
precision  was  not  so  easily  obtained  as  may  be  imagined.  I  will 
illustrate  this  by  one  thing  in  the  constitution.  —  There  is  a  general 

*  Robertson,  Debates  of  the  Contention  of  FirgtniOf  if 88  (2d  cdiL,  180$),  pp.  377- 
382. 


332      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

power  to  provide  courts  to  try  felonies  and  piracies  committed  on 
the  high  seas. —  Piracy  is  a  word  which  may  be  considered  as  a 
term  of  the  law  of  nations.  —  Felony  is  a  word  unknown  to  the 
law  of  nations,  and  is  to  be  found  in  the  British  laws,  and  from 
thence  adopted  in  the  laws  of  these  states.  It  was  thought  dishon- 
orable to  have  recourse  to  that  standard.  A  technical  term  of  the 
law  of  nations  is  therefore  used,  that  we  should  find  ourselves  author- 
ized to  introduce  it  into  the  laws  of  the  United  States.     .  .  . 

.  .  .  His  criticism  is  that  the  judiciary,  has  not  been  guarded 
from  an  increase  of  the  salary  of  the  judges.  I  wished  myself,  to 
insert  a  restraint  on  the  augmentation  as  well  as  diminution  of  their 
compensation;  and  supported  it  in  the  convention.  —  But  I  was 
over-ruled.  I  must  state  the  reasons  which  were  urged.  —  They 
had  great  weight.  —  The  business  must  increase.  If  there  was  no 
power  to  increase  their  pay,  according  to  the  increase  of  business, 
during  the  life  of  the  judges,  it  might  happen,  that  there  would  be 
such  an  accumulation  of  business,  as  would  reduce  the  pay  to  a  most 
trivial  consideration.  This  reason  does  not  hold  as  to  the  president. 
For  in  the  short  period  which  he  presides,  this  cannot  happen.  His 
salary  ought  not  therefore  to  be  increased.  It  was  objected  yester- 
day, that  there  was  no  provision  for  a  jury  from  the  vicinage.  If  it 
could  have  been  done  with  safety,  it  would  not  have  been  opposed. 
It  might  so  happen  that  a  trial  would  be  impracticable  in  the  county. 
Suppose  a  rebellion  in  a  whole  district,  would  it  not  be  impossible 
to  get  a  jury?  The  trial  by  jury  is  held  as  sacred  in  England  as  in 
America.  There  are  deviations  of  it  in  England:  yet  greater  de- 
viations have  happened  here  since  we  established  our  independence, 
than  have  taken  place  there  for  a  long  time,  though  it  be  left  to  the 
legislative  discretion.  It  is  a  misfortune  in  any  case  that  this  trial 
should  be  departed  from,  yet  in  some  cases  it  is  necessary.  It  must 
be  therefore  left  to  the  discretion  of  the  legislature  to  modify  it  accord- 
ing to  circumstances.    This  is  a  complete  and  satisfactory  answer. 


CCXVI.   Alexander  Hamilton  in  the  New  York  Convention.^ 

June  20,  1788. 
In  order  that  the  committee  may  understand  clearly  the  prin- 
ciples on  which  the  general  Convention  acted,  I  think  it  necessary 
to  explain  some  preliminary  circumstances.  Sir,  the  natural  situ- 
ation of  this  country  seems  to  divide  its  interests  into  different 
classes.    There    are    navigating    and    non-navigating    states.    The 

^  Elliot,  Debates  in  State  Conventions  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution^ 
II,  235-237. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXVI  333 

Northern  are  properly  navigating  states:  the  Southern  appear  to 
possess  neither  the  means  nor  the  spirit  of  navigation.  This  differ- 
ence of  situation  naturally  produces  a  dissimilarity  of  interests  and 
views  respecting  foreign  commerce.  It  was  the  interest  of  the  North- 
em  States  that  there  should  be  no  restraints  on  their  navigation, 
and  they  should  have  full  power,  by  a  majority  in  Congress,  to  make 
commercial  regulations  in  favor  of  their  own,  and  in  restraint  of  the 
navigation  of  foreigners.  The  Southern  States  wish  to  impose  a 
restraint  on  the  Northern,  by  requiring  that  two  thirds  in  Congress 
should  be  requisite  to  pass  an  act  in  regulation  of  commerce.  They 
were  apprehensive  that  the  restraints  of  a  navigation  law  would 
discourage  foreigners,  and,  by  obliging  them  to  employ  the  shipping 
of  the  Northern  States,  would  probably  enhance  their  freight.  This 
being  the  case,  they  insisted  strenuously  on  having  this  provision 
ingrafted  in  the  Constitution;  and  the  Northern  States  were  as 
anxious  in  opposing  it.  On  the  other  hand,  the  small  states,  seeing 
themselves  embraced  by  the  Confederation  upon  equal  terms,  wished 
to  retain  the  advantages  which  they  already  possessed.  The  large 
states,  on  the  contrary,  thought  it  improper  that  Rhode  Island  and 
Delaware  should  enjoy  an  equal  suffrage  with  themselves.  From 
these  sources  a  delicate  and  difficult  contest  arose.  It  became  neces- 
sary, therefore^  to  compromise,  or  the  Convention  must  have  dis- 
solved without  effecting  any  thing.  Would  it  have  been  wise  and 
prudent  in  that  body,  in  this  critical  situation,  to  have  deserted  their 
country?  No.  Every  man  who  hears  me,  every  wise  man  in  the 
United  States,  would  have  condemned  them.  The  Convention  were 
obliged  to  appoint  a  committee  for  accommodation.  In  this  com- 
mittee, the  arrangement  was  formed  as  it  now  stands,  and  their 
report  was  accepted.  It  was  a  delicate  point,  and  it  was  necessary 
that  all  parties  should  be  indulged.  Gentlemen  will  see  that,  if 
there  had  not  been  a  unanimity,  nothing  could  have  been  done; 
for  the  Convention  had  no  power  to  establish,  but  only  to  recommend, 
a  government.  Any  other  system  would  have  been  impracticable. 
Let  a  convention  be  called  to-morrow;  let  them  meet  twenty  times, 
—  nay,  twenty  thousand  times;  they  will  have  the  same  difficulties 
to  encounter,  the  same  clashing  interests  to  reconcile.     .  .  . 

The  first  thing  objected  to  is  that  clause  which  allows  a  repre- 
sentation for  three  fifths  of  the  negroes.  .  .  .  The  regulation  com- 
plained of  was  one  result  of  the  spirit  of  accommodation  which 
governed  the  Convelition;  and  without  this  indulgence  no  union 
could  possibly  have  been  formed. 


334     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCXVII.   Debate  in  the  Virginia  Convention.^ 

June  21  y  1788. 

.  .  .  Governor  Randolph,  where  is  the  part  that  has  a  ten- 
dency to  the  abolition  of  slavery?  Is  it  the  clause  which  says, 
that  "the  migration  or  importation  of  such  persons  as  any  of 
the  states  now  existing,  shall  think  proper  to  admit,  shall  not  be 
prohibited  by  congress  prior  to  the  year  1808?"  This  is  an  ex- 
ception from  the  power  of  regulating  commerce,  and  the  restric- 
tion is  only  to  continue  till  1808.  Then  congress  can,  by  the 
exercise  of  that  power,  prevent  future  importations;  but  does  it 
affect  the  existing  state  of  slavery?  Were  it  right  here  to  mention 
what  passed  in  convention  on  the  occasion,  I  might  tell  you  that 
the  southern  states,  even  South-Carolina  herself,  conceived  this 
property  to  be  secure  by  these  words.  I  believe,  whatever  we 
may  think  here,  that  there  was  not  a  member  of  the  Virginia  dele- 
gation who  had  the  smallest  suspicion  of  the  abolition  of  slavery.   . . . 

I  have  never  hesitated  to  acknowledge,  that  I  wished  the  regu- 
lation of  commerce  had  been  put  in  the  hands  of  a  greater  body  than 
it  is  in  the  sense  of  the  constitution.  But  I  appeal  to  my  colleagues 
in  the  federal  convention,  whether  this  was  not  a  sine  qua  non  of 
the  union.     .  .  . 

Mr.  George  Mason.  —  Mr.  Chairman  —  With  respect  to  commerce 
and  navigation,  he  has  given  it  as  his  opinion,  that  their  regulation, 
as  it  now  stands,  was  a  sine  qua  non  of  the  union,  and  that  without 
it,  the  states  in  convention  would  never  concur.  I  differ  from  him. 
It  never  was,  nor  in  my  opinion  ever  will  be,  a  sine  qua  non  of  the 
union.  I  will  give  you,  to  the  best  of  my  recollection,  the  history 
of  that  affair.  This  business  was  discussed  at  Philadelphia  lor  four 
months,  during  which  time  the  subject  of  commerce  and  navigation 
was  often  under  consideration;  and  I  assert,  that  eight  states  out 
of  twelve,  for  more  than  three  months,  voted  for  requiring  two-thirds 
of  the  members  present  in  each  house  to  pass  commercial  and  navi- 
gation laws.  True  it  is,  that  afterwards  it  was  carried  by  a  majority, 
as  it  stands.  If  I  am  right,  there  was  a  great  majority  for  requiring 
two-thirds  of  the  states  in  this  business,  till  a  compromise  took 
place  between  the  northern  and  southern  states;  the  northern  states 
agreeing  to  the  temporary  importation  of  slaves,  and  the  southern 
states  conceding,  in  return,  that  navigation  and  commercial  laws 
should  be  on  the  footing  on  which  they  now  stand.  If  I  am  mis- 
taken, let  me  be  put  right.    These  are  my  reasons  for  saying  that 

^  Robertson,  Debates  of  the  CoMention  of  Firginia,  1788  (2d  edit.,  1805),  pp.  428- 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXVIII  33$ 

this  was  not  a  sine  qua  non  of  their  concurrence.  The  Newfound- 
land fisheries  will  require  that  kind  of  security  which  we  are  now 
in  want  of:  The  eastern  states  therefore  agreed  at  length,  that 
treaties  should  require  the  consent  of  two-thirds  of  the  members 
present  in  the  senate. 

Mr.  Madison,  ...  It  is  worthy  of  our  consideration,  that 
those  who  prepared  the  paper  on  the  table,  found  difficulties  not  to 
be  described,  in  its  formation  —  mutual  deference  and  concession 
were  absolutely  necessary.  Had  they  been  inflexibly  tenacious 
of  their  individual  opinions,  they  would  never  have  concurred. 
Under  what  circumstances  was  it  formed.^  When  no  party  was 
formed,  or  particular  proposition  made,  and  men's  minds  were  calm 
and  dispassionate.  Yet  under  these  circumstances,  it  was  diffi- 
cult, extremely  difficult  to  agree  to  any  general  system.     .  .  . 

The  state  of  New- York  has  been  adduced.  Many  in  that  state 
are  opposed  to  it  from  local  views.  The  two  who  opposed  it  in  the 
general  convention  from  that  state,  are  in  the  state  convention. 
Every  step  of  this  system  was  opposed  by  those  two  gentlemen. 
They  were  unwilling  to  part  with  the  old  confederation.    .  .  . 

The  regulation  of  commerce,  he  further  proposes,  should  depend 
on  two-thirds  of  both  houses.  I  wish  I  could  recollect  the  history 
of  this  matter,  but  I  cannot  call  it  to  mind  with  sufficient  exactness. 
But  I  well  recollect  the  reasoning  of  some  gentlemen  on  that  sub- 
ject. It  was  said,  and  I  believe  with  truth,  that  every  part  of  America, 
does  not  stand  in  equal  need  of  security.  It  was  observed  that  the 
northern  states  were  most  competent  to  their  own  safety.  Was  it 
reasonable,  asked  they,  that  they  should  bind  themselves  to  the 
defence  of  the  southern  states;  and  still  be  left  at  the  mercy  of  the 
the  minority  for  commercial  advantages?  Should  it  be  in  the 
power  of  the  minority  to  deprive  them  of  this  and  other  advan- 
tages, when  they  were  bound  to  defend  the  whole  union,  it  might 
be  a  disadvantage  for  them  to  confederate.  These  were  their 
arguments.  

CCXVIII.    Debate  in  the  New  York  Convention.* 

June  23,  1788. 

The  Hon.  Mr.  Lansing.     I  do  not  rise,  Mr.  Chairman,  to  answer 

any  of  the  arguments  of  the  gentlemen,  but  to  mention  a  few  facts. 

In  this  debate,  much  reliance  has  been  placed  on  an  accommodation 

which  took  place  in  the  general  Convention.     I  will  state  the  progress 

^  Elliot,  Debates  in  State  Conoentions  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution,  II, 
272-274. 


336     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  that  business.  When  the  subject  of  the  apportionment  of  repre- 
sentatives came  forward,  the  large  states  insisted  that  the  equality 
of  suffrage  should  be  abolished.  This  the  small  states  opposed 
contending  that  it  would  reduce  them  to  a  state  of  subordination 
There  was  such  a  division  that  a  dissolution  of  the  Convention  ap- 
peared unavoidable,  unless  some  conciliatory  measure  was  adopted. 
A  committee  of  the  states  was  then  appointed,  to  agree  upon  some 
plan  for  removing  the  embarrassment.  They  recommended,  in 
their  report,  the  mequality  of  representation,  which  is  the  ground- 
work of  the  section  under  debate.  With  respect  to  the  ratio  of 
representation,  it  was  at  first  determined  that  it  should  be  one  for 
forty  thousand.  In  this  situation  the  subject  stood  when  I  left  the 
Convention.  The  objection  to  a  numerous  representation,  on  ac- 
count of  the  expense,  was  not  considered  as  a  matter  of  importance: 
other  objections  to  it,  however,  were  fully  discussed;  but  no  ques- 
tion was  taken.     .  .  . 

Hon.  Mr.  Hamilton.  It  is  not  my  design,  Mr.  Chairman,  to 
extend  this  debate  by  any  new  arguments  on  the  general  subject. 
...  I  only  rise  to  state  a  fact  with  respect  to  the  motives  which 
operated  in  the  general  Convention.  I  had  the  honor  to  state  to 
the  committee  the  diversity  of  interests  which  prevailed  between 
the  navigating  and  non-navigating,  the  large  and  the  smaU  states, 
and  the  influence  which  those  states  had  upon  the  conduct  of  each. 
It  is  true,  a  difference  did  take  place  between  the  large  and  the  small 
states,  the  latter  insisting  on  equal  advantages  in  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatively. Some  private  business  calling  me  to  New  York,  I  left 
the  Convention  for  a  few  days:  on  my  return,  I  found  a  plan,  re- 
ported by  the  committee  of  details;  and  soon  after,  a  motion  was 
made  to  increase  the  number  of  representatives.  On  this  occasion, 
the  members  rose  from  one  side  and  the  other,  and  declared  that  the 
plan  reported  was  entirely  a  work  of  accommodation,  and  that  to 
make  any  alterations  in  it  would  destroy  the  Constitution.  I  dis- 
covered that  several  of  the  states,  particularly  New  Hampshire, 
Connecticut,  and  New  Jersey,  thought  it  would  be  difficult  to  send 
a  great  number  of  delegates  from  the  extremes  of  the  continent  to 
the  national  government;  they  apprehended  their  constituents 
would  be  displeased  with  a  very  expensive  government;  and  they 
considered  it  as  a  formidable  objection.  After  some  debate  on  this 
motion,  it  was  withdrawn.  Many  of  the  facts  stated  by  the  gentle- 
man and  myself  are  not  substantially  different.  The  truth  is,  the 
plan,  in  all  its  parts,  was  a  plan  of  accommodation. 

Mr.  Lansing.  I  will  enter  no  further  into  a  discussion  of  the 
motives  of  the  Convention;  but  there  is  one  point  in  which  the  gentle- 


APPENDIX  A,    CCXIX  337 

man  and  myself  do  not  agree.  The  committee  of  details  recommend 
an  equality  in  the  Senate.  In  addition  to  this,  it  was  proposed 
that  every  forty  thousand  should  send  one  representative  to  the 
general  legislature.  Sir,  if  it  was  a  system  of  accommodation,  and 
to  remain  untouched,  how  came  that  number  afterwards  to  be  reduced 
to  thirty  thousand? 

Mr.  Hamilton.  I  recollect  well  the  alteration  which  the  gentle- 
man alludes  to;  but  it  by  no  means  militates  against  my  idea  of  the 
principles  on  which  the  Convention  acted,  at  the  time  the  report 
of  the  committee  was  under  deliberation.  This  alteration  did  not 
take  place  till  the  Convention  was  near  rising,  and  the  business  com* 
pleted;  when  his  excellency,  the  president,  expressing  a  wish  that 
the  number  should  be  reduced  to  thirty  thousand,  it  was  agreed 
to  without  opposition.  

CCXIX.   Debate  in  the  New  York  Convention.* 

June  24,  1788. 

Hon.  Mr.  Lansing  ...  I  believe  it  was  undoubtedly  the  inten- 
tion of  the  framers  of  this  Constitution  to  make  the  lower  house 
the  proper,  peculiar  representative  of  the  interests  of  the  people; 
the  Senate,  of  the  sovereignty  of  the  states.  .  .  .  Now,  if  it  was  the 
design  of  the  plan  to  make  the  Senate  a  kind  of  bulwark  to  the  inde- 
pendence of  the  states,  and  a  check  to  the  encroachments  of  the 
general  government,  certainly  the  members  of  this  body  ought  to 
be  peculiarly  under  the  control,  and  in  strict  subordination  to  the 
state  who  delegated  them.  .  .  .  The  idea  of  rotation  has  been  taken 
from  the  articles  of  the  old  Confederation.      .  .  . 

Hon.  Mr.  Hamilton  .  .  .  Sir,  the  main  design  of  the  Convention, 
in  forming  the  Senate,  was  to  prevent  fluctuations  and  cabals.  With 
this  view,  they  made  that  body  small,  and  to  exist  for  a  considerable 
period.  

CCXX.   Edmund  Randolph  in  the  Virginia  Convention.* 

June  25,  1788. 

Governor  Randolph.  —  Mr.  Chairman  —  One  parting  word  I 
humbly  supplicate. 

The  suffrage  which  I  shall  give  in  favor  of  the  constitution,  will 
be  ascribed  by  malice  to  motives  unknown  to  my  breast.  But 
although  for  every  other  act  of  my  life,  I  shall  seek  refuge  in  the  mercy 

^  Elliot,  Debates  in  State  Conventions  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constituiionf  II, 
pp.  289,  305. 

«  Robertson,  Debates  of  the  Convention  of  Virginia^  1788  (2d  edit.,  1805),  pp.  465- 

4^ 


338     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  God  —  for  this  I  request  his  justice  only.  Lest  however  some 
future  annalist  should  in  the  spirit  of  party  vengeance,  deign  to  men* 
tion  my  name,  let  him  recite  these  truths,  —  that  I  went  to  the 
federal  convention  with  the  strongest  affection  for  the  union;  that 
I  acted  there  in  full  conformity  with  this  affection;  that  I  refused 
to  subscribe  because  I  had,  as  I  still  have,  objections  to  the  consti- 
tution, and  wished  a  free  enquiry  into  its  merits;  and  that  the 
accession  of  eight  states  reduced  our  deliberations  to  the  single 
question  of  union  or  no  union. 


CCXXI.   Debate  in  the  New  York  Convention.^ 

June  28,  1788. 

Hon.  Mr.  Lansing.  ...  It  has  been  admitted  by  an  honorable 
gentleman  from  New  York,  (Mr.  Hamilton,)  that  the  state  govern- 
ments are  necessary  to  secure  the  liberties  of  the  people.  He  has 
urged  several  forcible  reasons  why  they  ought  to  be  preserved  under 
the  new  system;  and  he  has  treated  the  idea  of  the  general  and  state 
governments  being  hostile  to  each  other  as  chimerical.  I  am,  how- 
ever, firmly  persuaded  that  an  hostility  between  them  will  exist. 
This  was  a  received  opinion  in  the  late  Convention  at  Philadelphia. 
That  honorable  gentleman  was  then  fully  convinced  that  it  would 
exist,  and  argued,  with  much  decision  and  great  plausibility,  that  the 
state  governments  ought  to  be  subverted,  at  least  so  far  as  to  leave 
them  only  corporate  rights,  and  that,  even  in  that  situation,  they 
would  endanger  the  existence  of  the  general  government.  But  the 
honorable  gentleman's  reflections  have  probably  induced  him  to 
correct  that  sentiment. 

(Mr.  Hamilton  here  interrupted  Mr.  Lansing,  and  contradicted, 
in  the  most  positive  terms,  the  charge  of  inconsistency  included  in 
the  preceding  observations.  This  produced  a  warm  personal  alter- 
cation between  those  gentlemen,  which  engrossed  the  remainder  of 
the  day.)  

CCXXIL   Mr.  Smith  in  the  New  York  Convention.* 

Mr.  Smith  4  July  1788 

'*  Resolved  as  the  Opinion  of  this  Committee  that  the  President 
''of  the  United  States  shall  hold  his  Office  during  the  Term  of  seven 
"Years  &  that  he  shall  not  be  eligible  a  second  Time.*' 

^  Elliot,  DehaUs  in  StaU  CormenHans  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Ftderal  Constiiuiionf  II, 
$76. 

^Docununiary  History  of  thi  Constitution,  IV»  734;  taken  from  the  Hamiltcm 
Papers. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXXIII  339 

This  he  says  was  at  one  Time  a  Resolution  of  the  grand  Con- 
vention   (&  I  suppose  we  must  adhere  to  that  Idea  which  upon 

more  mature  Consideration  appeared  to  them  improper.) 


CCXXIII.   J.  B.  Cutting  to  Thomas  Jefferson.^ 

London  July  11.  1788 
Mr  Martin,  the  attorney  general,  who  was  primarily  appointed 
to  that  office  by  Mr  Chase  —  was  by  the  same  influence  deputed  to 
represent  the  state  —  after  Mesrs  Carrol,  Johnson  &c  &c  the  first 
choice  of  the  legislature  declined  quitting  Maryland  even  upon  the 
important  business  of  new-framing  the  national  government.  Mr 
Chase  having  just  before  menaced  the  Senate  for  rejecting  a  wide 
emission  of  paper  money  —  and  appealed  to  the  people  against 
them  —  they  had  joined  in  that  general  issue  —  and  cou'd  not 
venture  to  relinquish  to  a  violent  and  headstrong  party  their 
active  influence  in  the  senate  as  well  as  in  the  lower  house  — 
at  the  very  moment  —  when  it  was  so  essentially  needed  to  stem 
the  torrent  of  the  populace  for  the  paper.  Those  Gentlemen  there- 
fore remained  at  home  —  convinced  their  fellow  citizen  of  their 
superior  rectitude  and  wisdom  —  and  defeated  that  favourite 
measure  of  Mr  Chase:  meanwhile  Mr  Martin  and  Mr  John  F. 
Mercer  —  a  young  gentleman  whom  you  well  know  — ^went  to  the 
general  Convention  —  opposed  the  great  leading  features  of  the 
plan  which  was  afterwards  promulged  —  withdrew  themselves  from 
any  signature  of  it:  —  and  from  the  moment  when  it  was  pro- 
posed for  ratification  —  in  conjunction  with  Mr  Chase  and  his  sure 
coadjutor  Mr  Paca  —  exerted  every  effort  to  hinder  its  adoption. 
So  far  did  Mr  Martin  proceed  in  his  avowed  hostility,  as  even  to 
detail  in  the  face  of  decency  —  before  the  assembled  Legislature 
of  Maryland  —  the  petty  dialogues  and  paltry  anecdotes  of  every 
description  —  that  came  to  his  knowledge  in  conventional  committees 
and  private  conversations  with  the  respective  members  of  the  Con- 
vention —  when  at  Philadelphia.  I  blush'd  in  my  own  bed-chamber 
when  I  read  his  speech  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic. 


CCXXIV.   George  Washington  to  Sir  Edward  Newenham.* 

Mount  Vernon  July  20th.  1788 
Although  there  were  some  few  things  in  the  Constitution  recom- 
mended by  the  foederal  Convention  to  the  determination  of  the 
People,  which  did  not  fully  accord  with  my  wishes;    yet,  having 

*  DocumtiUary  History  of  the  Constitution^  IV,  772-773. 

*  Documniiafy  History  of  thi  Constitution^  IV,  807. 


340     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

taken  every  circumstance  seriously  into  consideration^  I  was  con- 
vinced it  approached  nearer  to  perfection  than  any  government 
hitherto  instituted  among  men.  I  was  also  convinced,  that  nothing 
but  a  genuine  spirit  of  amity  and  accomodation  could  have  induced 
the  members  to  make  those  mutual  concessions  and  to  sacrifice  (at 
the  shrine  of  enlightened  Liberty)  those  local  prejudices,  which 
seemed  to  oppose  an  insurmountable  barrier,  to  prevent  them  from 
harmonising  in  any  System  whatsoever. 


CCXXV.   Debate  in  the  North  Carolina  Convention.* 

July  24,  1788. 

Mr.  Davie  .  •  .  These  are  some  of  the  leading  causes  which 
brought  forward  this  new  Constitution.  It  was  evidently  neces- 
sary to  infuse  a  greater  portion  of  strength  into  the  national  govern- 
ment. But  Congress  were  but  a  single  body,  with  whom  it  was 
dangerous  to  lodge  additional  powers.  Hence  arose  the  necessity 
of  a  different  organization.  In  order  to  form  some  balance,  the 
departments  of  government  were  separated,  and  as  a  necessary 
check,  the  legislative  body  was  composed  of  two  branches.  Steadi- 
ness and  wisdom  are  better  insured  when  there  is  a  second  branch, 
to  balance  and  check  the  first  The  stability  of  the  laws  will  be  greater 
when  the  popular  branch,  which  might  be  influenced  by  local  views, 
or  the  violence  of  party,  is  checked  by  another,  whose  longer  con- 
tinuance in  office  will  render  them  more  experienced,  more  temper- 
ate, and  more  competent  to  decide  rightly. 

The  Confederation  derived  its  sole  support  from  the  state  legis- 
latures. This  rendered  it  weak  and  ineffectual.  It  was  therefore 
necessary  that  the  foundations  of  this  government  should  be  laid 
on  the  broad  basis  of  the  people.  Yet  the  state  governments  are 
the  pillars  upon  which  this  government  is  extended  over  such  an 
immense  territory,  and  are  essential  to  its  existence.  The  House  of 
Representatives  are  immediately  elected  by  the  people.  The  sena- 
tors represent  the  sovereignty  of  the  states;  they  are  directly  chosen 
by  the  state  legislatures,  and  no  legislative  act  can  be  done  without 
their  concurrence.  The  election  of  the  executive  is  in  some  measure 
under  the  control  of  the  legislatures  of  the  states,  the  electors  being 
appointed  under  their  direction. 

The  difference,  in  point  of  magnitude  and  importance,  in  the 
members  of  the  confederacy,  was  an  additional  reason  for  the  di- 
vision of  the  legislature  into  two  branches,  and  for  establishing  an 


^  Elliot,  Debates  in  StaU  Conveniions  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution^ 
IV,  20-32. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCXXV  34I 

equality  of  suffrage  in  the  Senate.  The  protection  of  the  small  states 
against  the  ambition  and  influence  of  the  larger  members,  could 
only  be  effected  by  arming  them  with  an  equal  power  in  one  branch 
of  the  legislature.  On  a  contemplation  of  this  matter,  we  shall  find 
that  the  jealousies  of  the  states  could  not  be  reconciled  any  other 
way.  The  lesser  states  would  never  have  concurred  unless  this 
check  had  been  given  them,  as  a  security  for  their  political  existence, 
against  the  power  and  encroachments  of  the  great  states.  It  may 
be  also  proper  to  observe,  that  the  executive  is  separated  in  its 
functions  from  the  legislature,  as  well  as  the  nature  of  the  case  would 
admit,  and  the  judiciary  from  both.     .  .  . 

In  the  formation  of  this  system,  many  difliculties  presented 
themselves  to  the  Convention. 

Every  member  saw  that  the  existing  system  would  ever  be  inef- 
fectual, unless  its  laws  operated  on  individuals,  as  military  coercion 
was  neither  eligible  nor  practicable.  Their  own  experience  was 
fortified  by  their  knowledge  of  the  inherent  weakness  of  all  con- 
federate governments.  They  knew  that  all  governments  merely 
federal  had  been  short-lived,  or  had  existed  from  principles  extra- 
neous from  their  constitutions,  or  from  external  causes  which  had 
no  dependence  on  the  nature  of  their  governments.  These  considera- 
tions determined  the  Convention  to  depart  from  that  solecism  in 
politics  —  the  principle  of  legislation  for  states  in  their  political 
capacities. 

The  great  extent  of  country  appeared  to  some  a  formidable 
difficulty;  but  a  confederate  government  appears,  at  least  in  theory, 
capable  of  embracing  the  various  interests  of  the  most  extensive 
territory.  Founded  on  the  state  governments  solely,  as  I  have 
said  before,  it  would  be  tottering  and  inefficient.  It  became,  there- 
fore, necessary  to  bottom  it  on  the  people  themselves,  by  giving  them 
an  immediate  interest  and  agency  in  the  government.  There  was, 
however,  some  real  difficulty  in  conciliating  a  number  of  jarring 
interests,  arising  from  the  incidental  but  unalterable  difference  in 
the  states  in  point  of  territory,  situation,  climate,  and  rivalship 
in  commerce.  Some  of  the  states  are  very  extensive,  others  very 
limited:  some  are  manufacturing  states,  others  merely  agricultural: 
some  of  these  are  exporting  states,  while  the  carrying  and  naviga- 
tion business  are  in  possession  of  others.  It  was  not  easy  to  recon- 
cile such  a  multiplicity  of  discordant  and  clashing  interests.  Mutual 
concessions  were  necessary  to  come  to  any  concurrence.  A  plan 
that  would  promote  the  exclusive  interests  of  a  few  states  would  be 
injurious  to  others.  Had  each  state  obstinately  insisted  on  the  se- 
curity of  its  particular  local  advantages,  we  should  never  have  come 


34^     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

to  a  conclusion.  Each,  therefore,  amicably  and  wisely  relinquished 
its  particular  views.  The  Federal  Convention  have  told  you,  that 
the  C>nstitution  which  they  formed  '^was  the  result  of  a  spirit  of 
amity,  and  of  that  mutual  deference  and  concession  which  the  pe- 
culiarity of  their  political  situation  rendered  indispensable. '*  I  hope 
the  same  laudable  spirit  will  govern  this  Convention  in  their  decision 
on  this  important  question. 

The  business  of  the  Convention  was  to  amend  the  Confedera- 
tion by  giving  it  additional  powers.  The  present  form  of  Congress 
being  a  single  body,  it  was  thought  unsafe  to  augment  its  powers, 
without  altering  its  organization.  The  act  of  the  Convention  is 
but  a  mere  proposal,  similar  to  the  production  of  a  private  pen.    .  .  . 

Mr.  Lenoir.  Mr.  Chairman,  I  have  a  greater  objection  on  this 
ground  than  that  which  has  just  been  mentioned.  I  mean,  sir,  the 
legislative  power  given  to  the  President  himself.  It  may  be  admired 
by  some,  but  not  by  me.  He,  sir,  with  the  Senate,  is  to  make  treaties, 
which  are  to  be  the  supreme  law  of  the  land.  This  is  a  legislative 
power  given  to  the  President,  and  implies  a  contradiction  to  that 
part  which  says  that  all  legislative  power  is  vested  in  the  two  houses. 

Mr.  Spaight  answered,  that  it  was  thought  better  to  put  that 
power  into  the  hands  of  the  senators  as  representatives  of  the  states 
—  that  thereby  the  interest  of  every  state  was  equally  attended  to 
in  the  formation  of  treaties  —  but  that  it  was  not  considered  as  a 
legislative  act  at  all.    .  .  . 

Mr.  Davie.  .  .  .  The  gentleman  "does  not  wish  to  be  repre- 
sented with  negroes.'*  This,  sir,  is  an  unhappy  species  of  popula- 
tion; but  we  cannot  at  present  alter  their  situation.  The  Eastern 
States  had  great  jealousies  on  this  subject.  They  insisted  that  their 
cows  and  horses  were  equally  entitled  to  representation;  that  the 
one  was  property  as  well  as  the  other.  It  became  our  duty,  on  the 
other  hand,  to  acquire  as  much  weight  as  possible  in  the  legislation 
of  the  Union;  and,  as  the  Northern  States  were  more  populous  in 
whites,  this  only  could  be  done  by  insisting  that  a  certain  proportion 
of  our  slaves  should  make  a  part  of  the  computed  population.  It 
was  attempted  to  form  a  rule  of  representation  from  a  compound 
ratio  of  wealth  and  population;  but,  on  consideradon,  it  was  found 
impracticable  to  determine  the  comparative  value  of  lands  and  other 
property,  in  so  extensive  a  territory,  with  any  degree  of  accuracy; 
md  population  alone  was  adopted  as  the  only  practicable  rule  or 
criterion  of  representation.  It  was  urged  by  the  deputies  of  the 
Eastern  States,  that  a  representation  of  two  fifths  would  be  of  little 
utility  and  that  their  entire  representation  would  be  unequal  and 
burdensome  —  that,  in  a  time  of  war,  slaves  rendered  a  country 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXXVI  343 

more  vulnerable,  while  its  defence  devolved  upon  its  free  inhabitants. 
On  the  other  hand,  we  insisted  that,  in  time  of  peace,  they  contributed, 
by  their  labor,  to  the  general  wealth,  as  well  as  other  members  of  the 
community  —  that,  as  rational  beings,  they  had  a  right  of  represen- 
tation, and,  in  some  instances,  might  be  highly  useful  in  war.  On 
these  principles  the  Eastern  States  gave  the  matter  up,  and  consented 
to  the  regulation  as  it  has  been  read.  I  hope  these  reasons  will 
appear  satisfactory.  It  is  the  same  rule  or  principle  which  was  pro- 
posed some  years  ago  by  Congress,  and  assented  to  by  twelve  of 
the  states.     .  .  . 

Mr.  James  Galloway  said,  that  he  did  not  object  to  the  repre- 
sentation of  negroes,  so  much  as  he  did  to  the  fewness  of  the  number 
of  representatives.  He  was  surprised  how  we  came  to  have  but 
five,  including  those  intended  to  represent  negroes.  That,  in  his 
humble  opinion.  North  Carolina  was  entitled  to  that  number  inde- 
pendent of  the  negroes. 

Mr.  Spaight  endeavored  to  satisfy  him,  that  the  Convention 
had  no  rule  to  go  by  in  this  case  —  that  they  could  not  proceed  upon 
the  ratio  mentioned  in  the  Constitution  till  the  enumeration  of  the 
people  was  made  —  that  some  states  had  made  a  return  to  Congress 
of  their  numbers,  and  others  had  not  —  that  it  was  mentioned  that 
we  had  had  time,  but  made  no  return  —  that  the  present  number 
was  only  temporary  —  that  in  three  years  the  actual  census  would 
be  taken,  and  our  number  of  representatives  regulated  accordingly. 


CCXXVI.   William  R,  Davie  in  the  North  Carolina  Con- 
vention.* 

July  25,  1788. 
Mr.  Chairman,  I  will  state  to  the  committee  the  reasons  upon 
which  this  officer  was  introduced.  I  had  the  honor  to  observe  to 
the  committee,  before,  the  causes  of  the  particular  formation  of  the 
Senate  —  that  it  was  owing,  with  other  reasons,  to  the  jealousy  of 
the  states,  and,  particularly,  to  the  extreme  jealousy  of  the  lesser 
states  of  the  power  and  influence  of  the  larger  members  of  the  con- 
federacy. It  was  in  the  Senate  that  the  several  political  interests 
of  the  states  were  to  be  preserved,  and  where  all  their  powers  were 
to  be  perfectly  balanced.  The  commercial  jealousy  between  the 
Eastern  and  Southern  States  had  a  principal  share  in  this  business. 
It  might  happen,  in  important  cases,  that  the  voices  would  be  equally 
divided     Indecision  might  be  dangerous  and  inconvenient  to  the 

^  Elliot,  Debates  in  State  Canoentions  an  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution^ 
IV,  42-60. 


344     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

public.  It  would  then  be  necessary  to  have  some  person  who  should 
determine  the  question  as  impartially  as  possible.  Had  the  Vice- 
President  been  taken  from  the  representation  of  any  of  the  states, 
the  vote  of  that  state  would  have  been  under  local  influence  in  the 
second.  It  is  true  he  must  be  chosen  from  some  state;  but,  from 
the  nature  of  his  election  and  office,  he  represents  no  one  state  in 
particular,  but  all  the  states.  It  is  impossible  that  any  officer  could 
be  chosen  more  impartially.  He  is,  in  consequence  of  his  election, 
the  creature  of  no  particular  district  or  state,  but  the  officer  and 
representative  of  the  Union.  He  must  possess  the  confidence  of  the 
states  in  a  very  great  degree,  and  consequently  be  the  most  proper 
person  to  decide  in  cases  of  this  kind.  These,  I  believe,  are  the  prin- 
ciples upon  which  the  Convention  formed  this  officer.      .  .  . 

The  1st  clause  of  the  4th  section  read. 

.  .  .  Mr.  Davie.  Mr.  Chairman,  a  consolidation  of  the  states  is 
said  by  some  gentlemen  to  have  been  intended.  They  insinuate 
that  this  was  the  cause  of  their  giving  this  power  of  elections.  If 
there  were  any  seeds  in  this  Constitution  which  might,  one  day, 
produce  a  consolidation,  it  would,  sir,  with  me,  be  an  insuperable 
objection,  I  am  so  perfectly  convinced  that  so  extensive  a  country 
as  this  can  never  be  managed  by  one  consolidated  government. 
The  Federal  Convention  were  as  well  convinced  as  the  members  of 
this  house,  that  the  state  governments  were  absolutely  necessary 
to  the  existence  of  the  federal  government.  They  considered  them 
as  the  great  massy  pillars  on  which  this  political  fabric  was  to  be 
extended  and  supported;  and  were  fully  persuaded  that,  when  they 
were  removed,  or  should  moulder  down  by  time,  the  general  govern- 
ment must  tumble  into  ruin.  A  very  little  reflection  will  show 
that  no  department  of  it  can  exist  without  the  state  govern- 
ments. 

.  .  •  The  gentleman  from  Edenton  (Mr.  Iredell)  has  pointed  out 
the  reasons  of  giving  this  control  over  elections  to  Congress,  the  prin- 
cipal of  which  was,  to  prevent  a  dissolution  of  the  government  by 
designing  states.  If  all  the  states  were  equally  possessed  of  abso- 
lute power  over  their  elections,  without  any  control  of  Congress, 
danger  might  be  justly  apprehended  where  one  state  possesses  as 
much  territory  as  four  or  five  others;  and  some  of  them,  being  thinly 
peopled  now,  will  daily  become  more  numerous  and  formidable. 
Without  this  control  in  Congress,  those  large  states  might  success- 
fully combine  to  destroy  the  general  government.  It  was  therefore 
necessary  to  control  any  combination  of  this  kind. 

Another  principal  reason  was,  that  it  would  operate,  in  favor 
of  the  people,  against  the  ambitious  designs  of  the  federal  Senate. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXXVII  345 

I  wUl  illustrate  this  by  matter  of  fact.  The  history  of  the  little 
state  of  Rhode  Island  is  well  known.  An  abandoned  faction  have 
seized  on  the  reins  of  government,  and  frequently  refused  to  have 
any  representation  in  Congress.  If  Congress  had  the  power  of  mak- 
ing the  law  of  elections  operate  throughout  the  United  States,  no 
state  could  withdraw  itself  from  the  national  councils,  without  the 
consent  of  a  majority  of  the  members  of  Congress.  Had  this  been 
the  case,  that  trifling  state  would  not  have  withheld  its  represen- 
tation. What  once  happened  may  happen  again;  and  it  was  neces- 
sary to  give  Congress  this  power,  to  keep  the  government  in  full 
operation.  This  being  a  federal  government,  and  involving  the 
interests  of  several  states,  and  some  acts  requiring  the  assent 
of  more  than  a  majority,  they  ought  to  be  able  to  keep  their 
representation  full.  It  would  have  been  a  solecism,  to  have  a  gov- 
ernment without  any  means  of  self-preservation.  The  Confedera- 
tion is  the  only  instance  of  a  government  without  such  means,  and 
is  a  nerveless  system,  as  inadequate  to  every  purpose  of  government 
as  it  is  to  the  security  of  the  liberties  of  the  people  of  America.  When 
the  councils  of  America  have  this  power  over  elections,  they  can, 
in  spite  of  any  faction  in  any  particular  state,  give  the  people  a  repre- 
sentation.   

CCXXVII.    Debate  in  the  North  Carolina  Convention.* 

The  5th  section  of  the  ist  article  read.  J    Y      ^    7    - 

.  .  .  Mr.  Graham  wished  to  hear  an  explanation  of  the  words 
"from  time  to  time,"  whether  it  was  a  short  or  a  long  time,  or  how 
often  they  should  be  obliged  to  publish  their  proceedings. 

Mr.  Davie  answered,  that  they  would  be  probably  published 
after  the  rising  of  Congress,  every  year  —  that  if  they  sat  two  or 
three  times,  or  oftener,  in  the  year,  they  might  be  published  every 
time  they  rose  —  that  there  could  be  no  doubt  of  their  publishing 
them  as  often  as  it  would  be  convenient  and  proper,  and  that  they 
would  conceal  nothing  but  what  it  would  be  unsafe  to  publish.  He 
further  observed,  that  some  states  had  proposed  an  amendment, 
that  they  should  be  published  annually;  but  he  thought  it  very 
safe  and  proper  as  it  stood  —  that  it  was  the  sense  of  the  Conven- 
tion that  they  should  be  published  at  the  end  of  every  session.     .  .  . 

Mr.  Spaight.  Mr.  Chairman,  it  was  thought  absolutely  neces- 
sary for  the  support  of  the  general  government  to  give  it  power  to 
raise  taxes.     Government  cannot  exist  without  certain  and  adequate 

^  Elliot,  Debates  in  State  Contentions  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution, 
IV,  72-104. 


346     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

funds.  Requisitions  cannot  be  depended  upon.  For  my  part,  I 
think  it  indifferent  whether  I  pay  the  tax  to  the  officers  of  the  con- 
tinent or  to  those  of  the  state.  I  would  prefer  paying  to  the  Con* 
tinental  officers,  because  it  will  be  less  expensive.     .  .  . 

1st  clause  of  the  9th  section  read. 

Mr.  J.  M'Dowall  wished  to  hear  the  reasons  of  this  restriction. 

Mr.  Spaight  answered,  that  there  was  a  contest  between  the 
Northern  and  Southern  States;  that  the  Southern  States,  whose 
principal  support  depended  on  the  labor  of  slaves,  would  not  consent 
to  the  desire  of  the  Northern  States  to  exclude  the  importation  of 
slaves  absolutely;  that  South  Carolina  and  Georgia  insisted  on  this 
clause,  as  they  were  now  in  want  of  hands  to  cultivate  their  lands; 
that  in  the  course  of  twenty  years  they  would  be  fully  supplied; 
that  the  trade  would  be  abolished  then,  and  that,  in  the  mean  time, 
some  tax  or  duty  might  be  laid  on.     .  .  . 

Mr.  Spaight  further  explained  the  clause.  That  the  limitation 
of  this  trade  to  the  term  of  twenty  years  was  a  compromise  between 
the  Eastern  States  and  the  Southern  States.  South  Carolina  and 
Georgia  wished  to  extend  the  term.  The  Eastern  States  insisted 
on  the  entire  abolition  of  the  trade.  That  the  state  of  North  Caro- 
lina had  not  thought  proper  to  pass  any  law  prohibiting  the  impor- 
tation of  slaves,  and  therefore  its  delegation  in  the  Convention  did 
not  think  themselves  authorized  to  contend  for  an  immediate  pro- 
hibition of  it.      ... 

Article  2d,  section  ist. 

Mr.  Davie.  .  .  .  The  clause  meets  my  entire  approbation.  I 
only  rise  to  show  the  principle  on  which  it  was  formed.  The  prin- 
ciple is,  the  separation  of  the  executive  from  the  legislative  —  a 
principle  which  pervades  all  free  governments.  A  dispute  arose 
in  the  Convention  concerning  the  reeligibility  of  the  President.  It 
was  the  opinion  of  the  deputation  from  this  state,  that  he  should 
be  elected  for  five  or  seven  years,  and  be  afterwards  ineligible.  It 
was  urged,  in  support  of  this  opinion,  that  the  return  of  public  officers 
into  the  common  mass  of  the  people,  where  they  would  feel  the  tone 
they  had  given  to  the  administration  of  the  laws,  was  the  best  se- 
curity the  public  had  for  their  good  behavior;  that  it  would  operate 
as  a  limitation  to  his  ambition,  at  the  same  time  that  it  rendered  him 
more  independent;  that  when  once  in  possession  of  that  office,  he 
would  move  heaven  and  earth  to  secure  his  reelection,  and  perhaps 
become  the  cringing  dependant  of  influential  men;  that  our  opinion 
was  supported  by  some  experience  of  the  effects  of  this  principle  in 
several  of  the  states.  A  large  and  very  respectable  majority  were 
of  the  contrary  opinion.     It  was  said  that  such  an  exclusion  would 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXXVIII  347 

be  improper  for  many  reasons;  that  if  an  enlightened,  upright  man 
had  discharged  the  duties  of  the  office  ably  and  faithfully,  it  would 
be  depriving  the  people  of  the  benefit  of  his  ability  and  experience, 
though  they  highly  approved  of  him;  that  it  would  render  the  Presi- 
dent less  ardent  in  his  endeavors  to  acquire  the  esteem  and  appro- 
bation of  his  country,  if  he  knew  that  he  would  be  absolutely  excluded 
after  a  given  period;  and  that  it  would  be  depriving  a  man  of  singu- 
lar merit  even  of  the  rights  of  citizenship.  It  was  also  said,  that  the 
day  might  come,  when  the  confidence  of  America  would  be  put  in 
one  man,  and  that  it  might  be  dangerous  to  exclude  such  a  man  from 
the  service  of  his  country.  It  was  urged,  likewise,  that  no  undue 
influence  could  take  place  in  his  election;  that,  as  he  was  to  be 
elected  on  the  same  day  throughout  the  United  States,  no  man  could 
say  to  himself,  I  am  to  be  the  man.  Under  these  considerations,  a 
large,  respectable  majority  voted  for  it  as  it  now  stands.  With 
respect  to  the  unity  of  the  executive,  the  superior  energy  and  secrecy 
wherewith  one  person  can  act,  was  one  of  the  principles  on  which 
the  Convention  went.  But  a  more  predominant  principle  was,  the 
more  obvious  responsibility  of  one  person.  It  was  observed  that, 
if  there  were  a  plurality  of  persons,  and  a  crime  should  be  committed, 
when  their  conduct  came  to  be  examined,  it  would  be  impossible 
to  fix  the  fact  on  any  one  of  them,  but  that  the  public  were  never  at 
a  loss  when  there  was  but  one  man.  For  these  reasons,  a  great 
majority  concurred  in  the  unity,  and  reeligibility  also,  of  the  execu- 
tive. I  thought  proper  to  show  the  spirit  of  the  deputation  from 
this  state.  However,  I  heartily  concur  in  it  as  it  now  stands,  and 
the  mode  of  his  election  precludes  every  possibility  of  corruption  or 
improper  influence  of  any  kind. 


CCXXVIII.    Debate  in  the  North  Carolina  Convention.* 

July  28,  1 788. 
Mr.  Davie.  Mr.  Chairman,  although  treaties  are  mere  con- 
ventional acts  between  the  contracting  parties,  yet,  by  the  law  of 
nations,  they  are  the  supreme  law  of  the  land  to  their  respective 
citizens  or  subjects.  All  civilized  nations  have  concurred  in  con- 
sidering them  as  paramount  to  an  ordinary  act  of  legislation.  This 
concurrence  is  founded  on  the  reciprocal  convenience  and  solid 
advantages  arising  from  it.  A  due  observance  of  treaties  makes 
nations  more  friendly  to  each  other,  and  is  the  only  means  of  render- 
ing less  frequent  those  mutual  hostilities  which  tend  to  depopulate 

^  Elliot,  Debates  in  State  Conpetiiions  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution^ 
IV,  pp.  11^144- 


348     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

and  ruin  contending  nations.  It  extends  and  facilitates  that  com- 
mercial intercourse,  which,  founded  on  the  universal  protection  of 
private  property,  has,  in  a  measure,  made  the  world  one  nation. 

The  power  of  making  treaties  has,  in  all  countries  and  govern- 
ments, been  placed  in  the  executive  departments.  This  has  not 
only  been  grounded  on  the  necessity  and  reason  arising  from  that 
degree  of  secrecy,  design,  and  despatch,  which  is  always  necessary 
in  negotiations  between  nations,  but  to  prevent  their  being  impeded, 
or  carried  into  effect,  by  the  violence,  animosity,  and  heat  of  parties, 
which  too  often  infect  numerous  bodies.  Both  of  these  reasons 
preponderated  in  the  foundation  of  this  part  of  the  system.     .  .  . 

On  the  principle  of  the  propriety  of  vesting  this  power  in  the 
executive  department,  it  would  seem  that  the  whole  power  of  making 
treaties  ought  to  be  left  to  the  President,  who,  being  elected  by  the 
people  of  the  United  States  at  large,  will  have  their  general  interest 
at  heart.  But  that  jealousy  of  executive  power  which  has  shown 
itself  so  strongly  in  all  the  American  governments,  would  not  admit 
this  improvement.  Interest,  sir,  has  a  most  powerful  influence 
over  the  human  mind,  and  is  the  basis  on  which  all  the  transactions 
of  mankind  are  built.  It  was  mentioned  before  that  the  extreme 
jealousy  of  the  little  states,  and  between  the  commercial  states  and 
the  non-importing  states,  produced  the  necessity  of  giving  an  equality 
of  suffrage  to  the  Senate.  The  same  causes  made  it  indispensable 
to  give  to  the  senators,  as  representatives  of  states,  the  power  of 
making,  or  rather  ratifying,  treaties.  Although  it  militates  against 
every  idea  of  just  proportion  that  the  little  state  of  Rhode  Island 
should  have  the  same  suffrage  with  Virginia,  or  the  great  common- 
wealth of  Massachusetts,  yet  the  small  states  would  not  consent  to 
confederate  without  an  equal  voice  in  the  formation  of  treaties. 
Without  the  equality,  they  apprehended  that  their  interest  would 
be  neglected  or  sacrificed  in  negotiations.  This  difficulty  could  not 
be  got  over.  It  arose  from  the  unalterable  nature  of  things.  Every 
man  was  convinced  of  the  inflexibility  of  the  little  states  in  this 
point.  It  therefore  became  necessary  to  give  them  an  absolute 
equality  in  making  treaties. 

.  .  .  The  gentleman  from  Anson  has  said  that  the  Senate  destroys 
the  independence  of  the  President,  because  they  must  confirm  the 
nomination  of  officers.  The  necessity  of  their  interfering  in  the 
appointment  of  officers  resulted  from  the  same  reason  which  pro- 
duced the  equality  of  suffrage.  In  other  countries,  the  executive 
or  chief  magistrate,  alone,  nominates  and  appoints  officers.  The 
small  states  would  not  agree  that  the  House  of  Representatives 
should  have  a  voice  in  the  appointment  to  offices;  and  the  extreme 


APPENDIX  A,    CCXXIX  349 

jealousy  of  all  the  states  would  not  give  it  to  the  President 
alone. 

...  I  have  only  to  add  the  principle  upon  which  the  General 
Convention  went  —  that  the  power  of  making  treaties  could  no- 
where be  so  safely  lodged  as  in  the  President  and  Senate;  and  the 
extreme  jealousy  subsisting  between  some  of  the  states  would  not 
admit  of  it  elsewhere.  If  any  man  will  examine  the  operation  of 
that  jealousy,  in  his  own  breast,  as  a  citizen  of  North  Carolina,  he 
will  soon  feel  the  inflexibility  that  results  from  it,  and  perhaps  be 
induced  to  acknowledge  the  propriety  of  this  arrangement.     •  .  . 

Mr.  Spaight.  Mr.  Chairman,  the  gentleman  insinuates  that 
differences  existed  in  the  Federal  Convention  respecting  the  clauses 
which  he  objects  to.  Whoever  told  him  so  was  wrong;  for  I  declare 
that,  in  that  Convention,  the  unanimous  desire  of  all  was  to  keep 
separate  and  distinct  the  objects  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  federal 
from  that  of  the  state  judiciary.  They  wished  to  separate  them 
as  judiciously  as  possible,  and  to  consult  the  ease  and  convenience 
of  the  people.      .  .  . 

Mr.  Spaight.  Mr.  Chairman,  the  trial  by  jury  was  not  forgotten 
in  the  Convention;  the  subject  took  up  a  considerable  time  to  investi- 
gate it.  It  was  impossible  to  make  any  one  uniform  regulation  for 
all  the  states,  or  that  would  include  all  cases  where  it  would  be  neces- 
sary. It  was  impossible,  by  one  expression,  to  embrace  the  whole. 
There  are  a  number  of  equity  and  maritime  cases,  in  some  of  the 
states,  in  which  jury  trials  are  not  used.  Had  the  Convention 
said  that  all  causes  should  be  tried  by  a  jury,  equity  and  maritime 
cases  would  have  been  included.  It  was  therefore  left  to  the  legis- 
lature to  say  in  what  cases  it  should  be  used;  and  as  the  trial  by 
jury  is  in  full  force  in  the  state  courts,  we  have  the  fullest  security. 


CCXXIX.   W.  R.  Davie  in  the  North  Carolina  Convention.* 

July  29,  1788. 
The  Federal  Convention  knew  that  several  states  had  large  sums 
of  paper  money  in  circulation,  and  that  it  was  an  interesting  prop- 
erty, and  they  were  sensible  that  those  states  would  never  consent 
to  its  immediate  destruction,  or  ratify  any  system  that  would  have 
that  operation.  The  mischief  already  done  could  not  be  repaired: 
all  that  could  be  done  was,  to  form  some  limitation  to  this  great 
political  evil.  As  the  paper  money  had  become  private  property, 
and  the  object  of  numberless  contracts,  it  could  not  be  destroyed 

^  Elliot,  Debates  in  State  Conventions  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution^ 
IV,  183-184,  191. 


3 so     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

or  intermeddled  with  in  that  situation,  although  its  baneful  tendency 
was  obvious  and  undeniable.  It  was,  however,  effecting  an  impor- 
tant object  to  put  bounds  to  this  growing  mischief.  If  the  states 
had  been  compelled  to  sink  the  paper  money  instantly,  the  remedy 
might  be  worse  than  the  disease.  As  we  could  not  put  an  immediate 
end  to  it,  we  were  content  with  prohibiting  its  future  increase,  look- 
ing forward  to  its  entire  extinguishment  when  the  states  that  had  an 
emission  circulating  should  be  able  to  call  it  in  by  a  gradual  redemp- 
tion. 

In  Pennsylvania,  their  paper  money  was  not  a  tender  in  dis- 
charge of  private  contracts.  In  South  Carolina,  their  bills  became 
eventually  a  tender;  and  in  Rhode  Island,  New  York,  New  Jersey, 
and  North  Carolina,  the  paper  money  was  made  a  legal  tender  in 
all  cases  whatsoever.  The  other  states  were  sensible  that  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  circulating  paper  would  be  a  violation  of  the  rights  of 
private  property,  and  that  such  a  measure  would  render  the  acces- 
sion of  those  states  to  the  system  absolutely  impracticable.  The 
injustice  and  pernicious  tendency  of  this  disgraceful  policy  were 
viewed  with  great  indignation  by  the  states  which  adhered  to  the 
principles  of  justice.  In  Rhode  Island,  the  paper  money  had  de- 
preciated to  eight  for  one,  and  a  hundred  per  cent,  with  us.  The 
people  of  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut  had  been  great  sufferers 
by  the  dishonesty  of  Rhode  Island,  and  similar  complaints  existed 
against  this  state.  This  clause  became  in  some  measure  a  prelimin- 
ary with  the  gentlemen  who  represented  the  other  states.  "You 
have,"  said  they,  "by  your  iniquitous  laws  and  paper  emissions 
shamefully  defrauded  our  citizens.  The  Confederation  prevented 
our  compelling  you  to  do  them  justice;  but  before  we  confederate 
with  you  again,  you  must  not  only  agree  to  be  honest,  but  put  it 
out  of  your  power  to  be  otherwise."  Sir,  a  member  from  Rhode 
Island  itself  could  not  have  set  his  face  against  such  language.  The 
clause  was,  I  believe,  unanimously  assented  to:  it  has  only  a  future 
aspect,  and  can  by  no  means  have  a  retrospective  operation;  and  I 
trust  the  principles  upon  which  the  Convention  proceeded  will 
meet  the  approbation  of  every  honest  man.     .  .  • 

Mr.  Chairman,  I  believe  neither  the  loth  section,  cited  by  the 
gentleman,  nor  any  other  part  of  the  Constitution,  has  vested  the 
general  government  with  power  to  interfere  with  the  public  securi- 
ties of  any  state.  I  will  venture  to  say  that  the  last  thing  which 
the  general  government  will  attempt  to  do  will  be  this.  They  have 
nothing  to  do  with  it.  The  clause  refers  merely  to  contracts  be- 
tween individuals.  That  section  is  the  best  in  the  Constitution. 
It  is  founded  on  the  strongest  principles  of  justice.     It  is  a  section, 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXXX  35 1 

in  short,  which  I  thought  would  have  endeared  the  Constitution 
to  this  country.  When  the  worthy  gentleman  comes  to  consider, 
he  will  find  that  the  general  government  cannot  possibly  interfere 
with  such  securities.  How  can  it?  It  has  no  negative  clause  to  that 
eflFect.  Where  is  there  a  negative  clause,  operating  negatively  on 
the  states  themselves?  It  cannot  operate  retrospectively,  for  this 
would  be  repugnant  to  its  own  express  provisions.  It  will  be  left 
to  ourselves  to  redeem  them  as  we  please.  We  wished  we  could 
put  it  on  the  shoulders  of  Congress,  but  could  not.  Securities  may 
be  higher,  but  never  less.  I  conceive,  sir,  that  this  is  a  very  plain 
case,  and  that  it  must  appear  perfectly  clear  to  the  committee  that 
the  gentleman's  alarms  are  groundless. 


CCXXX.   R.  D.  Spaight  in  the  North  Carolina  Convention.^ 

July  30,  1788. 
Mr.  Chairman,  I  am  one  of  those  who  formed  this  Constitu- 
tion. The  gentleman  says,  we  exceeded  our  powers.  I  deny  the 
charge.  We  were  sent  with  a  full  power  to  amend  the  existing 
system.  This  involved  every  power  to  make  every  alteration  neces- 
sary to  meliorate  and  render  it  perfect.  It  cannot  be  said  that  we 
arrogated  powers  altogether  inconsistent  with  the  object  of  our  dele- 
gation. There  is  a  clause  which  expressly  provides  for  future  amend- 
ments, and  it  is  still  in  your  power.  What  the  Convention  has  done 
is  a  mere  proposal.  It  was  found  impossible  to  improve  the  old 
system  without  changing  its  very  form;  for  by  that  system  the 
three  great  branches  of  government  are  blended  together.  All  will 
agree  that  the  concession  of  a  power  to  a  government  so  constructed 
is  dangerous.  The  proposing  a  new  system,  to  be  established  by  the 
assent  and  ratification  of  nine  states,  arose  from  the  necessity  of 
the  case.  It  was  thought  extremely  hard  that  one  state,  or  even 
three  or  four  states,  should  be  able  to  prevent  necessary  alterations. 
The  very  refractory  conduct  of  Rhode  Island,  in  uniformly  opposing 
every  wise  and  judicious  measure,  taught  us  how  impolitic  it  would 
be  to  put  the  general  welfare  in  the  power  of  a  few  members  of 
the  Union.  It  was,  therefore,  thought  by  the  Convention,  that,  if 
so  great  a  majority  as  nine  states  should  adopt  it,  it  would  be  right 
to  establish  it.  It  was  recommended  by  Congress  to  the  state 
legislatures  to  refer  it  to  the  people  of  their  different  states.  Our 
Assembly  has  confirmed  what  they  have  done,  by  proposing  it  to 
the  consideration  of  the  people.     It  was  there,  and  not  here,  that 


*  Elliot,  Debates  in  State  Conoentions  on  the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution,  IV, 
206-210. 


352     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  objection  should  have  been  made.  This  Convention  is  there- 
fore to  consider  the  Constitution,  and  whether  it  be  proper  for  the 
government  of  the  people  of  America;  and  had  it  been  proposed 
by  any  one  individual,  under  these  circumstances,  it  would  be  right 
to  consider  whether  it  be  good  or  bad.  The  gentleman  has  insin- 
uated that  this  Constitution,  instead  of  securing  our  liberties,  is  a 
scheme  to  enslave  us.  He  has  produced  no  proof,  but  rests  it  on 
his  bare  assertion  —  an  assertion  which  I  am  astonished  to  hear, 
after  the  ability  with  which  every  objection  has  been  fully  and 
clearly  refuted  in  the  course  of  our  debates.  I  am,  for  my  part, 
conscious  of  having  had  nothing  in  view  but  the  liberty  and  happi- 
ness of  my  country;  and  I  believe  every  member  of  that  Convention 
was  actuated  by  motives  equally  sincere  and  patriotic. 

.  .  .  The  gentleman  has  again  brought  on  the  trial  by  jury.  The 
Federal  Convention,  sir,  had  no  wish  to  destroy  the  trial  by  jury. 
It  was  three  or  four  days  before  them.  There  were  a  variety  of 
objections  to  any  one  mode.  It  was  thought  impossible  to  fall 
upon  one  any  mode  but  what  would  produce  some  inconveniences. 
I  cannot  now  recollect  all  the  reasons  given.  Most  of  them  have 
been  amply  detailed  by  other  gentlemen  here.  I  should  suppose 
that,  if  the  representatives  of  twelve  states,  with  many  able  lawyers 
among  them,  could  not  form  any  unexceptionable  mode,  this  Con- 
vention could  hardly  be  able  to  do  it. 

.  .  .  He  has  made  another  objection,  that  land  might  not  be 
taxed,  and  the  other  taxes  might  fall  heavily  on  the  poor  people. 
Congress  has  a  power  to  lay  taxes,  and  no  article  is  exempted  or 
excluded.  The  proportion  of  each  state  may  be  raised  in  the  most 
convenient  manner.  The  census  or  enumeration  provided  is  meant 
for  the  salvation  and  benefit  of  the  Southern  States.  It  was  men- 
tioned that  land  ought  to  be  the  only  object  of  taxation.  As  an 
acre  of  land  in  the  Northern  States  is  worth  many  acres  in  the  South- 
ern States,  this  would  have  greatly  oppressed  the  latter.  It  was  then 
judged  that  the  number  of  people,  as  therein  provided,  was  the  best 
criterion  for  fixing  the  proportion  of  each  state,  and  that  proportion 
in  each  state  to  be  raised  in  the  most  easy  manner  for  the  people. 


CCXXXI.   John  Lansing  to  Abraham  Yates  and  Melancton 

Smith.^ 

Octb.  3d  1788. 
I  take  the  Liberty  to  transmit  you  enclosed  the  State  of  Mr. 

Hamilton's  &  my  observations  respecting  his  sentiments  delivered 

™  ...  .  -      II  ■  ,         % 

^  New  York  Historical  Society,  Lamb  and  Tillinghast  MSS« 


APPENDIX  A,    CCXXXII  353 

in  the  general  Convention  &  Judge  Yates's  Information  on  that 
subject.^ 

I  have  confined  myself  to  the  Revisal  of  my  own  observations, 
leaving  Mr.  Hamilton  &  Mr.  Jay  to  do  the  like  with  theirs — Some 
of  the  observations  of  the  former  are  not  accurately  stated  &  some 
omitted,  but  I  suppose  he  will  correct  them. 

In  the  paper  enclosed  wherever  it  is  divided  into  Columns  the 
first  Column  contains  the  sentiments  of  Judge  Yates  or  myself  as 
revised  —  the  second  is  a  Copy  of  Mr.  Child's  verbatim  —  in  the 
other  parts  my  sentiments  are  of  my  own  stating  —  those  of  the 
others  of  Mr  Childs  —  without  the  least  Alteration. 

It  would  have  been  my  wish  that  this  Business  might  have  been 
represented  by  Child's  after  subjecting  the  Revisions  of  both  parties 
to  the  perusal  of  the  other — but  tho'  I  intimated  this  to  Mr.  Childs 
he  never  signified  any  assent  &  I  would  not  repeat  it.  —  Mr.  Hamil- 
ton may  therefore  give  such  an  Account  of  it  as  he  thinks  proper  — 
I  shall  only  reserve  the  Right  if  I  suppose  it  is  not  accurate  to  con- 
tradict it.  

CCXXXII.   James  Madison  to  Philip  Mazzei.* 

New  York,  Octr.  8th.  1788. 
You  ask  me  why  I  agreed  to  the  constitution  proposed  by  the 
Convention  of  Philada.  I  answer  because  I  thought  it  safe  to  the 
liberties  of  the  people,  and  the  best  that  could  be  obtained  from  the 
jarring  interests  of  States,  and  the  miscellaneous  opinions  of  Poli- 
ticians; and  because  experience  has  proved  that  the  real  danger  to 
America  &  to  liberty  lies  in  the  defect  of  energy  &  stability  in  the  pres- 
ent establishments  of  the  United  States.  —  Had  you  been  a  mem- 
ber of  that  assembly  and  been  impressed  with  the  truths  which  our 
situation  discloses,  you  would  have  concurred  in  the  necessity  which 
was  felt  by  the  other  members.     .  .  . 


CCXXXIII.    Lord  Dorchester  to  Lord  Sydney.' 

It  is  generally  admitted  that  the  federal  convention  which 
assembled  at  Philadelphia  in  1787,  was  composed  of  many  of  the 
ablest  men  in  the  states;  after  much  previous  discussion,  three 
plans  were  submitted  to  their  consideration  and  debated: 

1st.   That  of  New  Jersey,  supposed  to  be  the  production  of 

^  This  interesting  document  is  unfortunately  missing. 
■  G.  Hunt,  Writings  of  James  Madison,  V,  267. 

'  Communication  enclosed  by  Lord  Dorchester  in  a  letter  to  Lord  Sydney,  October 
14,  1788;  printed  in  Report  on  Canadian  Archvyesj  1890,  p.  loi. 


354     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Governor  Livingston,  which  went  merely  to  the  increase  of  the  powers 
of  the  present  congress;   it  was  judged  insufficient. 

2nd.  Colonel  Hamilton's,  that  had  in  view  the  establishment 
of  a  monarchy,  and  the  placing  the  crown  upon  the  head  of  a  foreign 
prince,  which  was  overruled,  although  supported  by  some  of  the 
ablest  members  of  the  convention. 

3rd.  That  of  Virginia  which  was  adopted. 


CCXXXIV.    Benjamin   Franklin   to   the   Due  de  La  Roche- 

FOUCALD.^ 

Philada.  [Oct.  22,  1788]. 
That  which  you  mention  did  not  pass  unnoticed  in  the  Conven- 
tion. Many,  if  I  remember  right,  were  for  making  the  President 
incapable  of  being  chosen  after  the  first  four  Years;  but  a  Majority 
were  for  leaving  the  Election  free  to  chuse  whom  they  pleas'd;  and 
it  was  alledged  that  such  Incapability  might  tend  to  make  the  Presi- 
dent less  attentive  to  the  duties  of  his  Office,  and  to  the  Interests 
of  the  People,  than  he  would  be  if  a  second  Choice  depended  on  their 
good  opinion  of  them.  

CCXXXV.   James  Madison  to  G.  L.  Turberville.* 

New  York,  Novr.  2,  1788. 

I  am  not  of  the  number  if  there  be  any  such,  who  think  the 
Constitution  lately  adopted  a  faultless  work.  On  the  contrary  there 
are  amendments  wch  I  wished  it  to  have  received  before  it  issued 
from  the  place  in  which  it  was  formed.     .  .  . 

Having  witnessed  the  difficulties  and  dangers  experienced  by 
the  first  Convention,  which  assembled  under  every  propitious  cir- 
cumstance, I  should  tremble  for  the  result  of  a  Second,  meeting  in 
present  temper  of  America  and  under  all  the  disadvantages  I  have 
mentioned.  ____« 

CCXXXVI.    A  Citizen  of  New  Haven  [Roger  Sherman],  L* 

It  is  proposed  that  members  of  congress  be  rendered  ineligible 
to  any  other  office  during  the  time  for  which  they  are  elected  members 
of  that  body. 

This  is  an  objection  that  will  admit  of  something  plausible  to 
be  said  on  both  sides,  and  it  was  settled  in  convention  on  full  dis- 
cussion and  deliberation.    There  are  some  offices  which  a  member 


*  Smyth,  Writings  of  Franklin^  IX,  666. 
■  G.  Hunt,  Writings  of  James  Madison^   V,  298,  300. 

'  P.  L.  Ford,  Essays  on  Hu  Constitution,  p.  234;  printed  in  the  New  Haven  Gazette, 
December  4,  1788. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXXXVII  3SS 

of  congress  may  be  best  qualified  to  fill,  from  his  knowledge  of  public 
afiFairs  acquired  by  being  a  member,  such  as  minister  to  foreign 
courts,  &c.,  and  on  accepting  any  other  office  his  seat  in  congress 
will  be  vacated,  and  no  member  is  eligible  to  any  office  that  shall 
have  been  instituted  or  the  emoluments  increased  while  he  was  a 
member.  

CCXXXVII.    Charles  Pinckney  to  Rufus  King.^ 

Charleston,  January  26,  1789. 
You  know  I  always  preferred  the  election  by  the  legislature, 
to  that  of  the  people,  &  I  will  now  venture  to  pronounce  that  the 
mode  which  you  &  Madison  &  some  others  so  thoroughly  contended 
for  &  ultimately  carried  is  the  greatest  blot  in  the  constitution  *  — 
of  this  however  more  hereafter. 


CCXXXVIII.    Charles  Pinckney  to  James  Madison.* 

Charleston  March  28:  1789. 

Are  you  not,  to  use  a  full  expression,  abundantly  convinced  that 
the  theoretical  nonsense  of  an  election  of  the  members  of  Congress 
by  the  people  in  the  first  instance,  is  clearly  and  practically  wrong.* 
—  that  it  will  in  the  end  be  the  means  of  bringing  our  councils  into 
contempt  &  that  the  legislature  are  the  only  proper  judges  of  who 
ought  to  be  elected  ? 

Are  you  not  fully  convinced  that  the  Senate  ought  at  least  to 
be  double  their  number  to  make  them  of  consequence  &  to  prevent 
their  falling  into  the  same  comparative  state  of  insignificance  that 
the  state  Senates  have,  merely  from  their  smallness.^  — 


CCXXXIX.   James  Madison  in  the  House  of  Representatives.' 

May  13,  1789. 
I  conceive  the  constitution,  in  this  particular,  was  formed  in 
order  that  the  Government,  whilst  it  was  restrained  from  laying  a 
total  prohibition,  might  be  able  to  give  some  testimony  of  the  sense 
of  America  with  respect  to  the  African  trade.  We  have  liberty  to 
impose  a  tax  or  duty  upon  the  importation  of  such  persons,  as  any 
of  the  States  now  existing  shall  think  proper  to  admit;  and  this 
liberty  was  granted,  I  presume,  upon  two  considerations:  The  first 

*  C.  R.  Ring,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King,  I,  359. 
«  Sec  CCXXXVIII  below. 

•  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  16S-169. 
«  Sec  CCXXXVII  above. 

»  Annals  of  Congress,  First  Congress,  I,  339-340. 


356     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

was,  that  until  the  time  arrived  when  they  might  abolish  the  impor- 
tation of  slaves,  they  might  have  an  opportunity  of  evidencing  their 
sentiments  on  the  policy  and  humanity  of  such  a  trade.  The  other 
was,  that  they  might  be  taxed  in  due  proportion  with  other  articles 
imported;  for  if  the  possessor  will  consider  them  as  property,  of 
course  they  are  of  value,  and  ought  to  be  paid  for. 


CCXL.   James  Madison  in  the  House  of  Representatives.* 

May  15,  1789. 
The  constitution,  as  had  already  been  observed,  places  the  power 
in  the  House  of  originating  money  bills.  The  principal  reason  why 
the  constitution  had  made  this  distinction  was,  because  they  were 
chosen  by  the  People,  and  supposed  to  be  best  acquainted  with  their 
interests,  and  ability.  In  order  to  make  them  more  particularly 
acquainted  with  these  objects,  the  democratic  branch  of  the  Legisla- 
ture consisted  of  a  greater  number,  and  were  chosen  for  a  shorter 
period,  so  that  they  might  revert  more  frequently  to  the  mass  of 
the  People.  

CCXLI.    Debate  in  the  House  of  Representatives.* 

May  19,  1789. 

Mr.  Smith  said,  he  had  doubts  whether  the  officer  could  be  re- 
moved by  the  President.  He  apprehended  he  could  only  be  removed 
by  an  impeachment  before  the  Senate,  and  that,  being  once  in  office, 
he  must  remain  there  until  convicted  upon  impeachment.     .  .  . 

Mr.  Madison  did  not  concur  with  the  gentleman  in  his  inter- 
pretation of  the  constitution.  What,  said  he,  would  be  the  conse- 
quence of  such  construction?  It  would  in  effect  establish  every 
officer  of  the  Government  on  the  firm  tenure  of  good  behaviour; 
not  the  heads  of  departments  only,  but  all  the  inferior  officers  of 
those  departments,  would  hold  their  offices  during  good  behavior, 
and  that  to  be  judged  of  by  one  branch  of  the  Legislature  only  on 
the  impeachment  of  the  other.     .  .  • 

It  is  very  possible  that  an  officer  who  may  not  incur  the  dis- 
pleasure of  the  President,  may  be  guilty  of  actions  that  ought  to 
forfeit  his  place.  The  power  of  this  House  may  reach  him  by  the 
means  of  an  impeachment,  and  he  may  be  removed  even  against 
the  will  of  the  President;  so  that  the  declaration  in  the  constitu- 
tion, was  intended  as  a  supplemental  security  for  the  good  behavior 
of  the  public  officers.     .  .  . 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  First  CongrcM,  I,  347. 

•  Annals  of  Congress,  First  Congress,  I,  372,  380. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXLII  357 

But  why,  it  may  be  asked,  was  the  Senate  joined  with  the 
President  in  appointing  to  office,  if  they  have  no  responsibility?  I 
answer,  merely  for  the  sake  of  advising,  being  supposed,  from  their 
nature,  better  acquainted  with  the  characters  of  the  candidates 
than  an  individual;  

CCXLII.    Debate  in  House  of  Representatives.* 

June  8,  1789. 

Mr.  Madison.  The  first  of  these  amendments  relates  to  what  may 
be  called  a  bill  of  rights.  I  will  own  that  I  never  considered  this  pro- 
vision so  essential  to  the  federal  constitution,  to  make  it  improper 
to  ratify  it,  until  such  an  amendment  was  added;  at  the  same  time,  I 
always  conceived,  that  in  a  certain  form,  and  to  a  certain  extent, 
such  a  provision  was  neither  improper  nor  altogether  useless.     .  .  . 

Mr.  Sherman.  —  I  do  not  suppose  the  constitution  to  be  perfect, 
nor  do  I  imagine  if  Congress  and  all  the  Legislatures  on  the  conti- 
nent were  to  revise  it,  that  their  united  labors  would  make  it  perfect. 
I  do  not  expect  any  perfection  on  this  side  the  grave  in  the  works 
of  man;  but  my  opinion  is,  that  we  are  not  at  present  in  circum- 
stances to  make  it  better.  It  is  at  wonder  that  there  has  been  such 
unanimity  in  adopting  it,  considering  the  ordeal  it  had  to  undergo; 
and  the  unanimity  which  prevailed  at  its  formation  is  equally  as- 
tonishing; amidst  all  the  members  from  the  twelve  States  present 
at  the  federal  convention,  there  were  only  three  who  did  not  *ign 
the  instrument  to  attest  their  opinion  of  its  goodness. 


CCXLIII.    Roger  Sherman  in  the  House  of  Representatives.* 

June  1 8,  1789. 
The  convention,  who  formed  this  constitution,  thought  it 
would  tend  to  secure  the  liberties  of  the  people,  if  they  prohibited 
the  President  from  the  sole  appointment  of  all  officers.  They  knew 
that  the  Crown  of  Great  Britain,  by  having  that  prerogative  has 
been  enabled  to  swallow  up  the  whole  administration;  the  influ- 
ence of  the  Crown  upon  the  Legislature  subjects  both  Houses  to  its 
will  and  pleasure.  Perhaps  it  may  be  thought,  by  the  people  of  that 
kingdom,  that  it  is  best  for  the  Executive  Magistrate  to  have  such 
kind  of  influence;  if  so,  it  is  very  well,  and  we  have  no  right  to  com- 
plain that  it  is  injurious  to  them,  while  they  themselves  consider 
it  beneficial.  But  this  Government  is  different,  and  intended  by  the 
people  to  be  different. 

^  Annals  of  Congress,  First  Congress,   I,  436,  448. 
•  Annals  of  Congress,  First  Congress,  I,  537. 


358     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCXLIV.   Abraham   Baldwin  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives.^ 

June  19,  1789. 
I  am  well  authorized  to  say,  that  the  mingling  the  powers  of  the 
President  and  Senate  was  strongly  opposed  in  the  convention  which 
had  the  honor  to  submit  to  the  consideration  of  the  United  States, 
and  the  different  States,  the  present  system  for  the  Government  of 
the  Union.  Some  gentlemen  opposed  it  to  the  last;  and  finally,  it 
was  the  principal  ground  on  which  they  refused  to  give  it  their 
signature  and  assent.  One  gentleman  called  it  a  monstrous  and 
unnatural  connexion,  and  did  not  hesitate  to  affirm  it  would  bring 
on  convulsions  in  the  Government. 


CCXLV.    Sherman  to  John  Adams.* 

July  20,  1789. 
Wherever  the  chief  magistrate  may  appoint  to  office  without 
control,  his  government  may  become  absolute,  or  at  least  aggres- 
sive;  therefore  the  concurrence  of  the  senate  is  made  requisite  by 
our  constitution.  

CCXLVI.    Roger  Sherman  in  the  House  of  Representatives.* 

August  14.  1789. 
Mr.  Sherman  said,  if  they  were  now  forming  a  constitution,  he 
should  be  in  favor  of  one  representative  for  forty  thousand,  rather 
than  thirty  thousand.  The  proportion  by  which  the  several  States 
are  now  represented  in  this  House  was  founded  on  the  former  cal- 
culation. In  the  convention  that  framed  the  constitution,  there  was 
a  majority  in  favor  of  forty  thousand,  and  though  there  were  some 
in  favor  of  thirty  thousand,  yet  that  proposition  did  not  obtain  until 
after  the  constitution  was  agreed  to,  when  the  President  had  expressed 
a  wish  that  thirty  thousand  should  be  inserted,  as  more  favorable 
to  the  public  interest;  during  the  contest  between  thirty  and  forty 
thousand,  he  believed  there  were  not  more  than  nine  States  who 
voted  in  favor  of  the  former. 


CCXLVn.   James  Madison  to  Edmund  Randolph.^ 

N.  Y.  Aug.  21.  89. 
I  find  in  looking  over  the  notes  of  your  introductory  discourse 
in  the  Convention  at  Philada  that  it  is  not  possible  for  me  to  do 

"  Annals  of  Congress,  Fir»t  Congress,  I,  557. 
«  Life  and  Works  of  John  Adams,  VI,  439. 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  First  Congress,  I,  725. 

*  Documentary  History  of  tJu  Constitution,  V,  191-192. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCXLVIII  359 

justice  to  the  substance  of  it.  I  am  anxious  for  particular  reasons, 
to  be  furnished  with  the  means  of  preserving  this  as  well  as  the  other 
arguments  in  that  body,  and  must  beg  that  you  will  make  out  & 
forward  me  the  scope  of  your  reasoning.  You  have  your  notes  I 
know  &  from  these  you  can  easily  deduce  the  argument  on  a  con- 
densed plan.  I  make  this  request  with  an  earnestness  wch.  will 
not  permit  you  either  to  refuse  or  delay  a  compliance. 


CCXLVIII.    Roger  Sherman   in  the   House  of  Representa- 
tives.^ 

August  21,  1789. 

[On  motion]  to  add  to  the  articles  of  amendment  the  following: 
'*  Congress  shall  not  alter,  modify,  or  interfere  in  the  times,  places, 
or  manner  of  holding  elections  of  Senators,  or  Representatives, 
except  when  any  State  shall  refuse  or  neglect,  or  be  unable,  by  inva- 
sion or  rebellion,  to  make  such  election."     .  .  . 

Mr.  Sherman  observed,  that  the  Convention  were  very  unanimous 
in  passing  this  clause;  that  it  was  an  important  provision,  and  if 
it  was  resigned  it  would  tend  to  subvert  the  Government. 


CCXLIX.   Anecdote  of  Washington  and  Jefferson.* 

There  is  a  tradition  that,  on  his  return  from  France,  Je£Ferson  called 
Washington  to  account  at  the  breakfast-table  for  having  agreed  to  a 
second  chamber.  *  Why,'  asked  Washington,  *  did  you  pour  that  coffee 
into  your  saucer?'  *To  cool  it,'  quoth  Jefferson.  'Even  so,'  said 
Washington,  'we  pour  legislation  into  the  senatorial  saucer  to  cool  it.' 


CCL.    Roger  Sherman  in  the  House  of  Representatives.* 

February  3,  1790. 
Mr.  Sherman  thought  that  the  interests  of  the  State  where  the 
emigrant  intended  to  reside  ought  to  be  consulted,  as  well  as  the 
interests  of  the  General  Government.  He  presumed  it  was  intended 
by  the  Convention,  who  framed  the  Constitution,  that  Congress 
should  have  the  power  of  naturalization,  in  order  to  prevent  par- 
ticular States  receiving  citizens,  and  forcing  them  upon  others  who 
would  not  have  received  them  in  any  other  manner.  It  was  there- 
fore meant  to  guard  against  an  improper  mode  of  naturalization, 
rather  than  foreigners  should  be  received  upon  easier  terms  than 
those  adopted  by  the  several  States. 

•  Annals  of  Congress,  First  G)ngre88, 1,  768,  770. 

•  M.  D.  Conway,  Omitted  Chapters  of  History,  P»  91. 

•  Annals  of  Congress,  First  Congress,  I,  mo. 


360  R£CORDS   OF  TH£  F£D£RAL  CONVENTION 

CCLI.   Abraham  Baldwin  in  the  House  of  Representatives.^ 

February  12,  1790. 
Mr.  Baldwin  was  sorry  the  subject  had  ever  been  brought  before 
Congress,  because  it  was  of  a  delicate  nature  as  it  respected  some  of 
the  States.  Gentlemen  who  had  been  present  at  the  formation  of 
this  Constitution  could  not  avoid  the  recollection  of  the  pain  and 
difficulty  which  the  subject  caused  in  that  body.  The  members 
from  the  Southern  States  were  so  tender  upon  this  point,  that  they 
had  well  nigh  broken  up  without  coming  to  any  determination; 
however,  from  the  extreme  desire  of  preserving  the  Union,  and  obtain- 
ing an  efficient  Government,  they  were  induced  mutually  to  con- 
cede, and  the  Constitution  jealously  guarded  what  they  agreed  to. 
If  gentlemen  look  over  the  footsteps  of  that  body,  they  will  find 
the  greatest  degree  of  caution  used  to  imprint  them,  so  as  not  to  be 
easily  eradicated;  but  the  moment  we  go  to  jostle  on  that  ground, 
I  fear  we  shall  feel  it  tremble  under  our  feet.  Congress  have  no 
power  to  interfere  with  the  importation  of  slaves  beyond  what  is 
given  in  the  ninth  section  of  the  ist  article  of  the  Constitution; 
everything  else  is  interdicted  to  them  in  the  strongest  terms.  If 
we  examine  the  constitution,  we  shall  find  the  expressions  relative 
to  this  subject  cautiously  expressed,  and  more  punctiliously  guarded 
than  any  other  part,  "The  migration  or  importation  of  such  per- 
sons shall  not  be  prohibited  by  Congress."  But  least  this  should 
not  have  secured  the  object  sufficiently,  it  is  declared,  in  the  same 
section,  "That  no  capitation  or  direct  tax  shall  be  laid,  unless  in 
proportion  to  the  census;"  this  was  intended  to  prevent  Congress 
from  laying  any  special  tax  upon  negro  slaves,  as  they  might,  in 
this  way,  so  burthen  the  possessors  of  them  as  to  induce  a  general 
emancipation.  If  we  go  on  to  the  fifth  article,  we  shall  find  the  first 
and  fifth  clauses  of  the  ninth  section  of  the  first  article  restrained  from 
being  altered  before  the  year  1808. 


CCLII.    Elbridge  Gerry  in  the  House  of  Representatives.' 

February  25,  1790. 
Gentlemen  have  said,  that  it  never  was  in  contemplation  to 
assume  the  State  debts.  When  the  present  Constitution  was  under 
consideration  in  the  General  Convention,  a  proposition  was  brought 
forward,  that  the  General  Government  should  assume  and  provide 
for  the  State  debts,  as  well  as  the  debts  of  the  Union.  It  was  opposed 
on  this  ground,  that  it  did  not  extend  to  the  repayment  of  that  part 

'  Annds  of  Congress,  Firat  Congress,  II,  1200-1201. 
•  Annals  of  Congress,  First  Congress,  II,  1 360-1 361. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLIII  361 

which  the  States  had  sunk,  as  well  as  that  which  remained  unpaid; 
had  it  not  been  for  this  objection,  I  believe  that  the  very  provision 
which  gentlemen  say  was  never  expected,  would  have  been  incor- 
porated in  the  Constitution  itself.  If  I  recollect  rightly,  it  was 
also  contended,  in  Convention,  that  the  proposition  would  be  useless, 
as  Congress  were  authorized,  under  other  parts  of  the  Constitu- 
tion, to  make  full  provision  on  this  head.  From  this  circum- 
stance, gentlemen  will  see  that  the  assumption  of  the  State  debts 
was  in  contemplation  from  the  very  commencement  of  the  new 
Government.  

CCLIII.   Tench  Coxe  to  James  Madison.^ 

Philada.  March  31,  1790  — 
I  will  mention  to  you  confidentially  that  great  pains  have  been 
heretofore  taken  to  restrain  Applications  to  the  general  Government 
on  the  subject  of  the  slave  trade.  A  very  strong  paper  was  drawn 
&  put  into  my  hands  to  procure  the  signature  of  Dr.  Franklin  to  be 
presented  to  the  federal  convention  —  I  enclosed  to  the  Dr.  with 
my  opinion  that  it  would  be  a  very  improper  season  &  place  to  hazard 
the  Application  considering  it  as  an  over  zealous  act  of  honest  men. 


CCLIV.   James  Madison  in  the  House  of  Representatives.^ 

April  22,  1790. 
One  of  my  colleagues  has  asked  a  very  proper  question  —  If, 
as  we  have  been  told,  the  assumption  originated  in  the  Convention, 
why  were  not  words  inserted  that  would  have  incorporated  and  made 
the  State  debts  part  of  the  debts  of  the  United  States.?  Sir,  if  there 
was  a  majority  who  disapproved  of  the  measure,  certainly  no  argu- 
ment can  be  drawn  from  this  source;  if  there  was  a  majority  who 
approved  of  it,  but  thought  it  inexpedient  to  make  it  a  part  of  the 
Constitution,  they  must  have  been  restrained  by  a  fear  that  it 
might  produce  dissensions  and  render  the  success  of  their  plan 
doubtful.  I  do  recollect  that  such  a  measure  was  proposed; 
and,  if  my  memory  does  not  deceive  me,  the  very  gentleman  •  who 
now  appeals  to  the  Constitution  in  support  of  his  argument,  dis- 
relished the  measure  at  that  time,  and  assigned  for  a  reason,  that  it 
would  administer  relief  perhaps  exactly  in  proportion  as  the  States 
had  been  deficient  in  making  exertions. 

•  Docuimniary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  239. 

•  Annals  of  Congress^  First  G>ngres8,  II,  1538. 

•  Gcrry,  see  CCLII  above. 


362     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCLV.   Roger  Sherman  in  the  House  of  Representatives.^ 

May  3,  1790. 
Mr.  Sherman  said,  that  a  proposition  to  vest  Congress  with 
power  to  establish  a  National  University  was  made  in  the  General 
Convention;  but  it  was  negatived.  It  was  thought  sufficient  that 
this  power  should  be  exercised  by  the  States  in  their  separate  capa- 
city.   

CCLVI.    Roger  Sherman  in  the  House  of  Representatives.^ 

May  25,  1790. 
It  is  objected  that  this  is  a  new  project  —  and  not  mentioned 
In  the  Constitution.  The  novelty  of  it  is  no  just  objection  against 
adopting  it  —  if  the  measure  be  just.  It  was  mentioned  in  the  gen- 
eral convention  —  but  it  was  not  thought  necessary  or  proper  to 
insert  it  in  the  Constitution,  for  Congress  would  have  sufficient 
power  to  adopt  it  if  they  should  judge  it  expedient. 


CCLVIL   James  Madison  in  the  House  of  Representatives.' 

February  2,  1791. 
In  making  these  remarks  on  the  merits  of  the  bill,  he  had  reserved 
to  himself  the  right  to  deny  the  authority  of  Congress  to  pass  it. 
He  had  entertained  this  opinion  from  the  date  of  the  Constitution. 
His  impression  might,  perhaps,  be  the  stronger,  because  he  well 
recollected  that  a  power  to  grant  charters  of  incorporation  had  been 
proposed  in  the  General  Convention  and  rejected. 


CCLVIII.    Elbridge  Gerry  in  the  House  of  Representatives.* 

February  7,  1 791. 
The  gentleman  from  Virginia  has  endeavored  to  support  his 
interpretation  of  the  Constitution  by  the  sense  of  the  Federal  Con- 
vention; but  how  is  this  to  be  obtained?  By  applying  proper  rules 
of  interpretation?  If  so,  the  sense  of  the  Convention  is  in  favor  of 
the  bill;  or  are  we  to  depend  on  the  memory  of  the  gentleman  for 
a  history  of  their  debates,  and  from  thence  to  collect  their  sense? 
This  would  be  improper,  because  the  memories  of  different  gentle- 
men would  probably  vary,  as  they  had  already  done,  with  respect 
to  those  facts;  and  if  not,  the  opinions  of  the  individual  members 
who  debated  are  not  to  be  considered  as  the  opinions  of  the  Conven- 

*  Annab  of  Congress ,  First  Congress,  II,  155 1. 

*  L.  H.  Boutell,  Life  of  Roger  Sherman,  p.  244. 
'  Annals  of  Congress,  First  Congress,  II,  1896. 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  First  Congress,  II,  1952. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCLIX  363 

tion.  Indeed,  if  they  were,  no  motion  was  made  in  that  Convention, 
and  therefore  none  could  be  rejected  for  establishing  a  National 
Bank;  and  the  measure  which  the  gentleman  has  referred  to  was  a 
proposition  merely  to  enable  Congress  to  erect  commercial  corpora- 
tions, which  was,  and  always  ought  to  be,  negatived. 


CCLIX.    Thomas  Jefferson:   on  the  Constitutionality  of  a 

National  Bank.^ 

February  15,  1791. 
It  is  an  established  rule  of  construction  where  a  phrase  will 
bear  either  of  two  meanings,  to  give  it  that  which  will  allow  some 
meaning  to  the  other  parts  of  the  instrument,  and  not  that  which 
would  render  all  the  others  useless.  Certainly  no  such  universal 
power  was  meant  to  be  given  them.  It  was  intended  to  lace  them 
up  straitly  within  the  enumerated  powers,  and  those  without 
which,  as  means,  these  powers  could  not  be  carried  into  e£Fect.  It 
is  known  that  the  very  power  now  proposed  as  a  means  was  rejected 
as  an  end  by  the  Convention  which  formed  the  Constitution.  A 
proposition  was  made  to  them  to  authorize  Congress  to  open  canals, 
and  an  amendatory  one  to  empower  them  to  incorporate.  But  the 
whole  was  rejected,  and  one  of  the  reasons  for  rejection  urged  in 
debate  was,  that  then  they  would  have  a  power  to  erect  a  bank, 
which  would  render  the  great  cities,  where  there  were  prejudices 
and  jealousies  on  the  subject,  adverse  to  the  reception  of  the  Con- 
stitution.   

CCLX.    Alexander  Hamilton:  On  the  Constitutionality  of  a 

National  Bank.* 

February  23,  1791. 

Another  argument  made  use  of  by  the  Secretary  of  State  is, 
the  rejection  of  a  proposition  by  the  Convention  to  empower  Con- 
gress to  make  corporations,  either  generally,  or  for  some  special 
purpose. 

What  was  the  precise  nature  or  extent  of  this  proposition,  or 
what  the  reasons  for  refusing  it,  is  not  ascertained  by  any  authentic 
document,  or  even  by  accurate  recollection.  As  far  as  any  such 
document  exists,  it  specifies  only  canals.  If  this  was  the  amount 
of  it,  it  would,  at  most,  only  prove  that  it  was  thought  inexpedient 
to  give  a  power  to  incorporate  for  the  purpose  of  opening  canals, 
for  which  purpose  a  special  power  would  have  been  necessary,  except 
with  regard  to  the  western  territory,  there  being  nothing  in  any 

» P.  L.  Ford,  Writings  of  Thomas  Jeferson,  V,  286-287. 

*  H.  C.  Lodge,  Works  of  Alexander  Hamilton  (Federal  Edition)  462-463. 


364     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

part  of  the  Constitution  respecting  the  regulation  of  canals.  It 
must  be  confessed,  however,  that  very  different  accounts  are  given 
the  imp>ort  of  the  proposition,  and  of  the  motives  for  rejecting  it. 
Some  affirm  that  it  was  confined  to  the  opening  of  canals  and  obstruc- 
tions in  rivers;  others,  that  it  embraced  banks;  and  others,  that  it 
extended  to  the  power  of  incorporating  generally.  Some,  again, 
allege  that  it  was  disagreed  to  because  it  was  thought  improper  to 
vest  in  Congress  a  p>ower  of  erecting  corporations.  Others,  because 
it  was  thought  unnecessary  to  specify  the  power,  and  inexpedient 
to  furnish  an  additional  topic  of  objection  to  the  Constitution.  In 
this  state  of  the  matter,  no  inference  whatever  can  be  drawn  from  it. 


CCLXI.   Abraham  Baldwin  in  the  House  of  Representatives.^ 

November  10,  1791. 
It  had  not  been  found  practicable  to  ground  representation  in 
the  Federal  Constitution  upon  any  other  principle  than  that  of 
numbers;   but  extent  of  territory  is  unquestionably  one  of  the  na- 
tural principles  on  which  it  rests,  and  should  if  possible  be  regarded. 


CCLXII.    Elbridge  Gerry  in  the  House  of  Representatives.' 

November  21,  1791. 
Mr.  Gerry  contended  that  the  Constitution  was  misconstrued 
by  the  gentleman  from  North  Carolina;  and  in  reply  to  the  gentle- 
man from  New  Jersey,  he  said  he  was  surprised  to  hear  the  remarks 
which  he  made,  when  he  recollected  his  being  a  member  of  the  Con- 
vention — -  in  which,  it  must  be  remembered  by  that  gentleman,  the 
larger  States  consented  to  placing  the  small  States  on  a  par  with 
them  in  the  Senate,  to  obviate  the  difficulty  which  the  smaller  States 
objected  against  the  larger  representations  from  the  larger  States. 


CCLXIII.   Jonathan  Dayton  in  the  House   of   Representa- 
tives.' 

December  22,  1791. 
Mr.  Dayton  also  objected  to  the  motion;   he  thought  fourteen 
days  would  be  a  more  proper  time;    it  was  the  design  of  the  Con- 
stitution, though  it  is  not  expressed,  that  the  President  should  not 
know  the  characters  to  whom  he  is  indebted  for  his  election. 

1  Annals  of  Congress^  Second  Congress,  173. 
'  Annals  of  Congress^  Second  Congress,  203. 
*  Annals  of  Congress^  Second  Congress,  279. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCLXIV  365 

CCLXIV.    Hugh  Williamson  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives.* 

January  24,  1792. 
Mr.  Williamson  observed,  that  although  some  complaints  were 
made  of  the  fractional  parts  not  being  represented,  he  never  could 
conceive  that  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  entertained  an  idea 
of  a  representation  of  the  people  distinct  from  the  States,  but  con- 
templated the  representation  of  the  people  of  each  State,  according 
to  some  given  ratio.  

CCLXV.    Hugh  Williamson  in  the  House  of  Representatives.* 

February  3,  1792. 

In  the  Constitution  of  this  Government  there  are  two  or  three 
remarkable  provisions,  which  seem  to  be  in  point.  It  is  provided, 
that  direct  taxes  shall  be  apportioned  among  the  several  States 
according  to  their  respective  numbers.  It  is  also  provided,  that 
all  duties,  imposts,  and  excises,  shall  be  uniform  throughout  the 
United  States;  and  it  is  provided,  that  no  preference  shall  be  given, 
by  any  regulation  of  commerce  or  revenue,  to  the  ports  of  one 
State  over  those  of  another.  The  clear  and  obvious  intention  of 
the  articles  mentioned  was,  that  Congress  might  not  have  the  power 
of  imposing  unequal  burdens;  that  it  might  not  be  in  their  power 
to  gratify  one  part  of  the  Union  by  oppressing  another.  It  appeared 
possible,  and  not  very  improbable,  that  the  time  might  come,  when, 
by  greater  cohesion,  by  more  unanimity,  by  more  address,  the  Repre- 
sentatives of  one  part  of  the  Union  might  attempt  to  impose  un- 
equal taxes,  or  to  relieve  their  constituents  at  the  expense  of  other 
people.  To  prevent  the  possibility  of  such  a  combination,  the  arti- 
cles that  I  have  mentioned  were  inserted  in  the  Constitution.     .  .  • 

Perhaps  the  case  I  have  put  is  too  strong  —  Congress  can  never 
do  a  thing  that  is  so  palpably  unjust  —  but  this,  sir,  is  the  very 
mark  at  which  the  theory  of  bounties  seems  to  point.  The  certain 
operation  of  that  measure  is  the  oppression  of  the  Southern  States, 
by  superior  numbers  in  the  Northern  interest.  This  was  to  be 
feared  at  the  formation  of  this  Government,  and  you  find  many 
articles  in  the  Constitution,  besides  those  I  have  quoted,  which  were 
certainly  intended  to  guard  us  against  the  dangerous  bias  of  interest, 
and  the  power  of  numbers.  Wherefore  was  it  provided  that  no  duty 
should  be  laid  on  exports?  Was  it  not  to  defend  the  great  staples 
of  the  Southern  States  —  tobacco,  rice  and  indigo  —  from  the  opera- 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  Second  Congress,  333. 

*  Annab  of  Congress,  Second  Congress,  378-3S0. 


366      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

tion  of  unequal  regulations  of  commerce,  or  unequal  indirect  taxes, 
as  another  article  had  defended  us  from  unequal  direct  taxes? 

I  do  not  hazard  much  in  saying,  that  the  present  Constitution 
had  never  been  adopted  without  those  preliminary  guards  in  it. 


CCLXVI.   James  Madison  in  the  House  of  Representatives.^ 

February  6,  1792. 
I,  sir,  have  always  conceived  —  I  believe  those  who  proposed 
the  Constitution  conceived,  and  it  is  still  more  fully  known,  and 
more  material  to  observe  that  those  who  ratified  the  Constitution 
conceived — that  this  is  not  an  indefinite  Government,  deriving  its 
powers  from  the  general  terms  prefixed  to  the  specified  powers,  but 
a  limited  Government,  tied  down  to  the  specified  powers  which 
explain  and  define  the  general  terms. 


CCLXVII.   Thomas  Jefferson:  Anas.* 

April  the  6th  [1792.]  The  President  called  on  me  before  break- 
fast, and  first  introduced  some  other  matter,  then  fell  on  the  repre- 
sentation bill,  which  he  had  now  in  his  possession  for  the  tenth  day. 
I  had  before  given  him  my  opinion  in  writing,  that  the  method  of 
apportionment  was  contrary  to  the  constitution.  He  agreed  that 
it  was  contrary  to  the  common  understanding  of  that  instrument, 
and  to  what  was  understood  at  the  time  by  the  makers  of  it:  that 
yet  it  would  bear  the  construction  which  the  bill  put,  and  he  observed 
that  the  vote  for  and  against  the  bill  was  perfectly  geographical,  a 
northern  against  a  southern  vote,  and  he  feared  he  should  be  thought 
to  be  taking  side  with  a  southern  party.    .  .  . 

Written  this  the  9th  of  April. 


CCLXVIII.   Alexander  Hamilton  to  Edward  Carrington.* 

May  26,  1792. 
As  to  the  third  point,  the  question  of  an  assumption  of  the  State 
debts  by  the  United  States  was  in  discussion  when  the  convention 
that  framed  the  present  government  was  sitting  at  Philadelphia, 
and  in  a  long  conversation  which  I  had  with  Mr.  Madison  in  an 
afternoon's  walk,  I  well  remember  that  we  were  perfectly  agreed  in 
the  expediency  and  propriety  of  such  a  measure;  though  we  were 
both  of  opinion  that  it  would  be  more  advisable  to  make  it  a  measure 

^  Annab  of  Congress,  Second  Congress,  386. 

■  T.  J.  Randolph,  Memoir,  Correspondence,  ,  ,  ,  of  Thomas  Jefferson^  IV,  466- 

*  H.  C.  Lodge,  Works  of  Alexander  Hamilton  (Federal  Edition),  IX,  515. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLXIX  367 

of  administration  than  an  article  of  Constitution,  from  the  impolicy 
of  multiplying  obstacles  to  its  reception  on  collateral  details. 


CCLXIX.   George  Mason's  Account  of  certain  Proceedings 

IN  Convention.^ 

Gunston  hall.  Sep.  30.  92.  ex  relatione  G.  Mason 

The  constn  as  agreed  to  till  a  fortnight  before  the  convention 
rose  was  such  a  one  as  he  wd  have  set  his  hand  &  heart  to.  i.  the 
presidt  was  to  be  elected  for  7.  years,  then  ineligible  for  7.  more. 
2.  rotation  in  the  senate.  3.  a  vote  of  f  in  the  legislature  on  par- 
ticular subjects,  &  expressly  on  that  of  navign.  the  3.  new  Engld. 
states  were  constantly  with  us  in  all  questions  (Rho.  isld.  not  there, 
&  N.  York  seldom)  so  that  it  was  these  3.  states  with  the  5.  Southern 
ones  against  Pennsva  Jersey  &  Delaware,  with  respect  to  the  im- 
portn  of  slaves  it  was  left  to  Congress,  this  disturbed  the  2  Southern- 
most states  who  knew  that  Congress  would  immediately  suppress 
the  importn  of  slaves,  those  2  states  therefore  struck  up  a  bargain 
with  the  3.  N.  Engld.  states,  if  they  would  join  to  admit  slaves  for 
some  years,  the  2  Southernmost  states  wd  join  in  changing  the  clause 
which  required  |  of  the  legislature  in  any  vote,  it  was  done,  these 
articles  were  changed  accordingly,  &  from  that  moment  the  two  S. 
states  and  the  3  Northern  ones  joined  Pen.  Jers.  &  Del.  &  made  the 
majority  8.  to  3.  against  us  instead  of  8.  to  3.  for  us  as  it  had  been 
thro'  the  whole  Convention,  under  this  coalition  the  great  prin- 
ciples of  the  Constn  were  changed  in  the  last  days  of  the  Convention. 

Anecdote.  Yates  Lansing  &  Hamilton  represented  N.  Y.  Yates 
&  Lansing  never  voted  in  one  single  instance  with  Ham.  who  was  so 
much  mortified  at  it  that  he  went  home,  when  the  season  for  courts 
came  on,  Yates  a  judge  &  Lansing  a  lawyer  went  to  attend  their 
courts,     then  Ham.  returned. 

Anecdote,  the  constn  as  agreed  at  first  was  that  amendments 
might  be  proposed  either  by  Congr.  or  the  legislatures  a  commee 
was  appointed  to  digest  &  redraw.  Gov.  Morris  &  King  were  of 
the  commee.  one  morng.  Gov.  M.  moved  an  instrn  for  certain 
altems  (not  \  the  members  yet  come  in)  in  a  hurry  &  without  under- 
standing it  was  agreed  to.  the  Commee  reported  so  that  Congr. 
shd  have  the  exclusve.  power  of  proposg.  amendmts.  G.  Mason 
observd  it  on  the  report  &  opposed  it.  King  denied  the  coilstrn. 
Mason  demonstrated  it,  &  asked  the  Commee  by  what  authority 
they  had  varied  what  had  been  agreed.     G.  Morris  then  impudently 

*  From  the  Jefferson  Papers  and  in  the  handwriting  of  Jefferson.  Printed  io 
Documentary  History  of  ike  Constitutumf  V,  246-247. 


368      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

got  up  &  said  by  authority  of  the  convention  8c  produced  the  blind 
instruction  beforementd.  which  was  unknown  by  }  of  the  house 
&  not  till  then  understood  by  the  other,  they  then  restored  it  as 
it  stood  originally.*  

CCLXX.   Alexander  Hamilton  :  Reply  to  Anonymous  Charges.' 

In  reference  to  it,  a  reply,  published  by  Hamilton  in  seventeen 
hundred  and  ninety-two,  to  anonymous  charges,'  containing  a  mis- 
representation of  his  course  in  the  convention,  and  stated  by  him 
*'  to  be  of  a  nature  to  speak  the  malignity  and  turpitude  of  the  accuser, 
denoting  clearly  the  personal  enemy  in  the  garb  of  the  political 
opponent,"  mentions  "that  the  deliberations  of  the  convention, 
which  were  carried  on  in  private,  were  to  remain  unmolesUd,  And 
every  prudent  man,"  he  observed,  "must  be  convinced  of  the  pro- 
priety of  the  one  and  the  other.  Had  the  deliberations  been  open 
while  going  on,  the  clamours  of  faction  would  have  prevented  any 
satisfactory  result.  Had  they  been  ajterwards  disclosed^  much  food 
would  have  been  afforded  to  inflammatory  declamation.  Propo- 
sitions, made  without  due  reflection,  and  perhaps  abandoned  by  the 
prop>o8ers  themselves  on  more  mature  reflection,  would  have  been 
handles  for  a  profusion  of  ill-natured  accusation.   .  .  . 

In  the  reply  previously  referred  to,  made  by  Hamilton  to  an 
anonymous  attack  in  the  year  seventeen  hundred  and  ninety-two, 
at  the  seat  of  government,  when  nearly  all  the  members  of  the  con- 
vention were  living,  to  a  charge  that  he  ^^  opposed  the  constitution 
in  the  grand  convention,  because  it  was  too  republican,"  he  remarked, 
"This  I  affirm  to  be  a  gross  misrepresentation.  To  prove  it  so,  it 
were  sufllicient  to  appeal  to  a  single  fact,  namely,  that  the  gentle- 
man alluded  to  was  the  only  member  from  the  state  to  which  he 
belonged  who  signed  the  constitution,  and,  it  is  notorious,  against 
the  prevailing  weight  of  the  official  influence  of  the  state,  and  against 
what  would  probably  be  the  opinion  of  a  large  majority  of  his  fel- 
low-citizens, till  better  information  should  correct  their  first  impres- 
sions. How,  then,  can  he  be  believed  to  have  opposed  a  thing  which 
he  actually  agreed  to,  and  that  in  so  unsupported  a  situation  and 
under  circumstances  of  such  peculiar  responsibility?  To  this,  I  shall 
add  two  more  facts:  —  One,  that  the  member  in  question  never 
made  a  proposition  to  the  convention  which  was  not  conformable 
to  the  republican  theory.  The  other,  that  the  highest  toned  of  any 
of  the  propositions  made  by  him,  was  actually  voted  for  by  the 

1  See  CCLXXXI  below. 

*  J.  C.  Hamilton,  History  of  the  Republic  o/  the  United  StaUs,  III,  256,  339-340. 

'  In  the  National  GautU,  established  by  Jefferson  and  Madison. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLXXI  369 

representatives  of  several  states^  including  some  of  the  principal 
ones,  and  including  individuals  who,  in  the  estimation  of  those  who 
deem  themselves  the  only  republicans,  are  pre-eminent  for  repub- 
lican character.    More  than  this  I  am  not  at  liberty  to  say." 


CCLXXI.   Anonymous  Letter  to  Alexander  Hamilton.* 

New  York  Augt.  30th.  1793 
A  publication  appeared  some  time  since  in  Greenleaf  s  paper, 
charging  you  with  having  moved  in  Convention  that  the  Gover- 
ment  of  the  United  States  should  be  by  a  Kingy  Lords  &  Commons 
—  I  took  some  pains  to  discover  the  author  of  that  piece,  but  with- 
out success  —  But  a  conversation  lately  happened  between  Como- 
dore  Nicholson  &  Mr.  Leonard  Bleeker,  in  the  hearing  of  others, 
in  which  the  Commodore  said;  he  had  read  the  piece  before  alluded 
to,  but  doubted  the  truth  of  it  untill  it  was  lately  confirmed  by  Mr. 
Abraham  Baldwin,  who  was  also  a  member  of  the  Convention  — 
This  Mr.  Baldwin  did  publicly  in  a  pretty  large  company  at  the  Cbm- 
modores  own  Table.  He  said  your  motion  was  seconded  by  Mr. 
Cover  Morris  &  that  you  was  so  chagrined  when  it  failed  that  you 
left  the  House  in  disgust;  That  you  returned  however  on  a  sub- 
sequent day,  delivered  your  sentiments  in  writing,  &  Came  off  to 
New  york,  declaring  you  intermeddle  no  farther  in  the  matter  — 
Notwithstanding  you  returned,  &  assented  to  the  Constitution  as 
it  is  —  This  writing  he  suggested  contained  your  Ideas  of  the  kind 
of  Government  proper  to  be  adopted  —  In  repeating  from  other 
persons,  words  are  often  changed;  but  the  foregoing  is  the  substance 
of  what  the  Commodore  reports  Mr.  Baldwin  to  have  said —  I 
leave  to  yourself  the  expediency  of  taking  any  notice  of  it. 


CCLXXII.    Abraham  Baldwin  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives.* 

March  14,  1796. 
He  would  begin  it  by  the  assertion,  that  those  few  words  in  the 
Constitution  on  this  subject,*  were  not  those  apt,  precise,  definite 
expressions,  which  irresistibly  brought  upon  them  the  meaning 
which  he  had  been  above  considering.  He  said  it  was  not  to  dis- 
parage the  instrument,  to  say  that  it  had  not  definitely,  and  with 
precision,  absolutely  settled  everything  on  which  it  had  spoke.     He 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  349-250. 
■  Annals  of  Congress,  Fourth  Congress,  First  Session,  537. 
'  Power  of  making  treaties  vested  in  the  President  and  Senate,  and  that  treaties 
were  to  be  ''the  supreme  law  of  the  land." 


370     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

had  sufficient  evidence  to  satisfy  his  own  mind  that  it  was  not  sup- 
posed by  the  makers  of  it  at  the  time,  but  that  some  subjects  were 
left  a  little  ambiguous  and  uncertain.  It  was  a  great  thing  to  get 
so  many  difficult  subjects  definitely  settled  at  once.  If  they  could 
all  be  agreed  in,  it  would  compact  the  Government.  The  few  that 
were  left  a  little  unsettled  might,  without  any  great  risk,  be  settled 
by  practice  or  by  amendments  in  the  progress  of  the  Government. 
He  believed  this  subject  of  the  rival  powers  of  legislation  and  Treaty 
was  one  of  them;  the  subject  of  the  Militia  was  another,  and  some 
question  respecting  the  Judiciary  another.  When  he  reflected  on 
the  immense  difficulties  and  dangers  of  that  trying  occasion  —  the 
old  Government  prostrated,  and  a  chance  whether  a  new  one  could 
be  agreed  in  —  the  recollection  recalled  to  him  nothing  but  the  most 
joyful  sensations  that  so  many  things  had  been  so  well  settled,  and 
that  experience  had  shown  there  was  very  little  difficulty  or  danger 
in  settling  the  rest.  

CCLXXIII.    Secretary  of  State:  Convention  Papers  Received 

FROM  President  Washington.^ 

Department  of  State  March  19.  1796. 
Received  from  the  President  of  the  U.  States  this  journal  of  the  gen- 
eral or  foederal  convention,  in  one  hundred  &  fifty  three  pages; 
together  with  a  journal  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Committee  of  the 
Whole  House;  a  book  exhibiting  on  eight  pages  a  detail  of  yeas  & 
nays  on  questions  taken  in  the  Convention  &  two  loose  sheets  &  a 
half  sheet,  containing  nine  pages  of  the  like  yeas  and  nays;  a  printed 
draught  of  the  Constitution;  a  sheet  marked  No  i.  exhibiting  the 
state  of  the  resolutions  submitted  to  the  consideration  of  the  House 
by  Mr  Randolph,  as  agreed  to  in  a  Committee  of  the  whole  house; 
another  sheet,  marked  No  2.  exhibiting  the  state  of  those  resolu- 
tions as  alteredy  amended  &  agreed  to  in  a  Committee  of  the  whole 
House;  and  seven  other  papers,  marked  No  3.  No  4.  No  5.  No  6. 
No  7.  No  8.  &  No  9.  of  no  consequence  in  relation  to  the  proceedings 
of  the  Convention,  but  which  are  on  file  with  the  printed  draught  of 
the  Constitution  and  the  papers  marked  No  i.  &  No  2. 

The  leaf  containing  the  pages  of  this  journal  numbered  151  & 
152,  was  loose;  it  had  plainly  been  torn  from  the  place  where  it  is 
now  inserted  following  page  150. — 

Timothy  Pickering, 

Secy  of  State. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  1,  47. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLXXIV  37 1 

CCLXXIV.   President  Washington:  Message   to   House    of 

Representatives  on  Jay's  Treaty.* 

March  30,  1796 

Having  been  a  member  of  the  General  Convention,  and  knowing 
the  principles  on  which  the  Constitution  was  formed,  I  have  ever 
entertained  but  one  opinion  on  this  subject,  and  from  the  first  estab- 
lishment of  the  Government  to  this  moment,  my  conduct  has  exem- 
plified that  opinion,  that  the  power  of  making  Treaties  is  exclusively 
vested  in  the  President,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the 
Senate,  provided  two-thirds  of  the  Senators  present  concur;  and 
that  every  Treaty  so  made,  and  promulgated,  thenceforward  becomes 
the  law  of  the  land.    .  .  . 

It  is  a  fact,  declared  by  the  General  Convention,  and  universally 
understood,  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  the  result 
of  a  spirit  of  amity  and  mutual  concession.  And  it  is  well  known 
that,  under  this  influence,  the  smaller  States  were  admitted  to  an 
equal  representation  in  the  Senate,  with  the  larger  States;  and  that 
this  branch  of  the  Government  was  invested  with  great  powers;  for, 
on  the  equal  participation  of  those  powers,  the  sovereignty  and  po- 
litical safety  of  the  smaller  States  were  deemed  essentially  to  depend. 

If  other  proofs  than  these,  and  the  plain  letter  of  the  Constitu- 
tion itself,  be  necessary  to  ascertain  the  point  under  consideration, 
they  may  be  found  in  the  Journals  of  the  General  Convention,  which 
I  have  deposited  in  the  ofilice  of  the  Department  of  State.  In  those 
Journals  it  will  appear,  that  a  proposition  was  made,  'that  no  Treaty 
should  be  binding  on  the  United  States  which  was  not  ratified  by  a 
law,*  and  that  the  proposition  was  explicitly  rejected.* 

As,  therefore,  it  is  perfectly  clear  to  my  understanding,  that  the 
assent  of  the  House  of  Representatives  is  not  necessary  to  the  validity 
of  a  Treaty;  .  .  .• 

*  Annals  of  Congress ,  Fourth  Congress,  First  Session,  761. 

*  Sec  CCLXXV  and  CCLXXVI  below. 

*The  following  note,  dated  January-  25,  1826,  is  found  among,  the  Madison 
Papers:  — 

'*In  the  Richmond  Enquirer  of  the  21st  is  an  extract  from  the  Report  of  Secre- 
tary Hamilton  on  the  constitutionality  of  the  Bank,  in  which  he  opposes  a  resort,  in 
expounding  the  Constitution,  to  the  rejection  of  a  proposition  in  the  Convention,  or 
to  any  evidence  extrinsic  to  the  text.  Did  he  not  advise,  if  not  draw  up,  the  message 
refusing  to  the  House  of  Representatives  the  papers  relating  to  Jay's  treaty,  in  which 
President  Washington  combats  the  right  of  their  call  by  appealing  to  his  personal 
knowledge  of  thtf  intention  of  the  Convention,  having  been  himself  a  member  of  it, 
to  the  authority  of  a  rejected  proposition  appearing  on  the  journals  of  the  Convention, 
and  to  the  opinion's  entertained  in  the  State  Conventions?"  (LeUets  and  Other 
WriHngs  of  James  Madison^  HI,  515.) 


37^     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCLXXV.   James  Madison  to  Thomas  Jefferson.^ 

Philada,  April  4,  1796. 

The  Newspapers  will  inform  you  that  the  call  for  the  Treaty 
papers  was  carried  by  62  agst  37.  You  will  find  the  answer  of  the 
President  herewith  inclosed.*  The  absolute  refusal  was  as  unex- 
pected as  the  tone  8c  tenor  of  the  message  are  improper  &  indelicate. 
If  you  do  not  at  once  perceive  the  drift  of  the  appeal  to  the  Genl 
Convention  &  its  journal,  recollect  one  of  Camillus'  last  numberSi 
&  read  the  latter  part  of  Murray's  speech.    .  .  . 

According  to  my  memory  &  that  of  others,  the  Journal  of  the 
Convention  was,  by  a  vote  deposited  with  the  P.,  to  be  kept  sacred 
until  called  for  by  some  competent  authority.  How  can  this  be 
reconciled  with  the  use  he  has  made  of  it.^  Examine  my  notes  if 
you  please  at  the  close  of  the  business,  &  let  me  know  what  is  said 
on  the  subject.  —  You  will  perceive  that  the  quotation  is  nothing 
to  the  purpose.  Most  of  the  majority  wd  decide  as  the  Convention 
did  because  they  think  there  may  be  some  Treaties,  as  a  Mere  Treaty 
of  peace  that  would  not  require  the  Legislative  power  —  a  ratifica- 
tion by  law  also  expressed  a  different  idea  from  that  entertained  by 
the  House  of  its  agency.*       

CCLXXVI.   James  Madison  in  the  House  of  Representatives.^ 

April  6,  1796. 

He  proceeded  to  review  the  several  topics  on  which  the  Message 
relied.  First.  The  intention  of  the  body  which  framed  the  Con- 
stitution.   .  .  . 

I.  When  the  members  on  the  floor,  who  were  members  of  the 
General  Convention,  particularly  a  member  from  Georgia  and  him- 
self, were  called  on  in  a  former  debate  for  the  sense  of  that  body 
on  the  Constitutional  question,  it  was  a  matter  of  some  surprise, 
which  was  much  increased  by  the  peculiar  stress  laid  on  the  infor- 
mation expected.  He  acknowledged  his  surprise,  also,  at  seeing  the 
Message  of  the  Executive  appealing  to  the  same  proceedings  in  the 
General  Convention,  as  a  clue  to  the  meaning  of  the  Constitution. 

It  had  been  his  purpose,  during  the  late  debate,  to  make  some 
observations  on  what  had  fallen  from  the  gentlemen  from  Con- 
necticut and  Maryland,  if  the  sudden  termination  of  the  debate 
had  not  cut  him  off  from  the  opportunity.  He  should  have  reminded 
them  that  this  was  the  ninth  year  since  the  Convention  executed 

*  Hunt,  Writings  of  James  Madison^  VI,  264-5. 

*  See  CCLXXIV  above.  •  See  CCLXXVI  below. 

*  Annals  of  Congress^  Fourth  Congress,  First  Session,  774-780. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLXXVI  373 

their  trust,  and  that  he  had  not  a  single  note  in  this  place  to  assist 
his  memory.  He  should  have  remarked,  that  neither  himself  nor 
the  other  members  who  had  belonged  to  the  Federal  Convention, 
could  be  under  any  particular  obligation  to  rise  in  answer  to  a  few 
gentlemen,  with  information,  not  merely  of  their  own  ideas  of  that 
period,  but  of  the  intention  of  the  whole  body;  many  members  of 
which,  too,  had  probably  never  entered  into  the  discussions  of  the 
subject.  He  might  have  further  remarked,  that  there  would  not 
be  much  delicacy  in  the  undertaking,  as  it  appeared  that  a  sense 
had  been  put  on  the  Constitution  by  some  who  were  members  of 
the  Convention,  different  from  that  which  must  have  been  enter- 
tained by  others,  who  had  concurred  in  ratifying  the  Treaty.     .  .  . 

It  would  have  been  proper  for  him,  also,  to  have  recollected  what 
had,  on  a  former  occasion,  happened  to  himself  during  a  debate 
in  the  House  of  Representatives.  When  the  bill  for  establishing  a 
National  Bank  was  under  Consideration,  he  had  opposed  it,  as  not 
warranted  by  the  Constitution,  and  incidentally  remarked,  that  his 
impression  might  be  stronger,  as  he  remembered  that,  in  the  Con- 
vention, a  motion  was  made  and  negatived,  for  giving  Congress  a 
power  to  grant  charters  of  incorporation.  This  slight  reference  to 
the  Convention,  he  said,  was  animadverted  on  by  several,  in  the 
course  of  the  debate,  and  particularly  by  a  gentleman  from  Massa- 
chusetts, who  had  himself  been  a  member  of  the  Convention,  and 
whose  remarks  were  not  unworthy  the  attention  of  the  Committee. 
Here  Mr.  M.  read  a  paragraph  from  Mr.  Gerry's  speech,  from  the 
Gazette  of  the  United  States,  page  814,  protesting,  in  strong  terms, 
against  arguments  drawn  from  that  source.^ 

Mr.  M.  said,  he  did  not  believe  a  single  instance  could  be  cited 
in  which  the  sense  of  the  Convention  had  been  required  or  admitted 
as  material  in  any  Constitutional  question.  In  the  case  of  the  Bank, 
the  Committee  had  seen  how  a  glance  at  that  authority  had  been 
treated  in  this  House.  When  the  question  on  the  suability  of  the 
States  was  depending  in  the  Supreme  Court,  he  asked,  whether  it 
had  ever  been  understood  that  the  members  of  the  Bench,  who  had 
been  members  of  the  Convention,  were  called  on  for  the  meaning 
of  the  Convention  on  that  very  important  point,  although  no  Con- 
stitutional question  would  be  presumed  more  susceptible  of  eluci- 
dation from  that  source? 

He  then  adverted  to  that  part  of  the  Message  which  contained 
an  extract  from  the  Journal  of  the  Convention,  showing  that  a  propo- 
sition *  that  no  Treaty  should  be  binding  on  the  United  States,  which 

» See  CCLVII— CCLVIII  above. 


374     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

vras  not  ratified  by  law/  was  explicitly  rejected.  He  allowed  this 
to  be  much  more  precise  than  any  evidence  drawn  from  the  debates 
in  the  Convention,  or  resting  on  the  memory  of  individuals.  But 
admitting  the  case  to  be  as  stated,  of  which  he  had  no  doubt,  although 
he  had  no  recollection  of  it,  and  admitting  the  record  of  the  Q^n- 
vention  to  be  the  oracle  that  ought  to  decide  the  true  meaning  of 
the  Constitution,  what  did  this  abstract  vote  amount  to?  Did  it 
condemn  the  doctrine  of  the  majority?  So  far  from  it,  that,  as  he 
understood  their  doctrine,  they  must  have  voted  as  the  Convention 
did;  for  they  do  not  contend  that  no  Treaty  shall  be  operative 
without  a  law  to  sanction  it;  on  the  contrary,  they  admit  that  some 
Treaties  will  operate  without  this  sanction;  and  that  it  is  no  further 
applicable  in  any  case  than  where  Legislative  objects  are  embraced 
by  Treaties.  The  term  *  ratify*  also  deserved  some  attention;  for, 
although  of  loose  signification  in  general,  it  had  a  technical  meaning 
different  from  the  agency  claimed  by  the  House  on  the  subject  of 
Treaties.* 

But,  after  all,  whatever  veneration  might  be  entertained  for  the 
body  of  men  who  formed  our  Constitution,  the  sense  of  that  body 
could  never  be  regarded  as  the  oracular  guide  in  expounding  the  Con- 
stitution. As  the  instrument  came  from  them  it  was  nothing  more 
than  the  draft  of  a  plan,  nothing  but  a  dead  letter,  until  life  and 
validity  were  breathed  into  it  by  the  voice  of  the  people,  speaking 
through  the  several  State  Conventions.  If  we  were  to  look,  there- 
fore, for  the  meaning  of  the  instrument  beyond  the  face  of  the  instru- 
ment, we  must  look  for  it,  not  in  the  General  Convention,  which 
proposed,  but  in  the  State  Conventions,  which  accepted  and  ratified 
the  Constitution. 

...  He  should  limit  himself,  therefore,  to  two  observations. 
The  first  was,  that  if  the  spirit  of  amity  and  mutual  concession  from 
which  the  Constitution  resulted  was  to  be  consulted  on  expounding 
it,  that  construction  ought  to  be  favored  which  would  preserve  the 
mutual  control  between  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives, 
rather  than  that  which  gave  powers  to  the  Senate  not  controllable 
by,  and  paramount  over  those  of  the  House  of  Representatives, 
whilst  the  House  of  Representatives  could  in  no  instance  exercise 
their  powers  without  the  participation  and  control  of  the  Senate. 
The  second  observation  was,  that,  whatever  jealousy  might  unhappily 
have  prevailed  between  the  smaller  and  larger  States,  as  they  had 
most  weight  in  one  or  the  other  branch  of  Government,  it  was  a 
fact,  for  which  he  appealed  to  the  Journals  of  the  old  Congress, 

>  See  CCLXXIV  above. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLXXVII  375 

from  its  birth  to  its  dissolution,  and  to  those  of  the  Congress  under 
the  present  Government,  that  in  no  instance  would  it  appear,  from 
the  yeas  and  nays,  that  a  question  had  been  decided  by  a  division 
of  the  votes  according  to  the  size  of  the  States.  He  considered  this 
truth  as  affording  the  most  pleasing  and  consoling  reflection,  and  as 
one  that  ought  to  have  the  most  conciliating  and  happy  influence  on 
the  temper  of  all  the  States. 


CCLXXVII.   William  Findley  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives.^ 

January  23,  1798. 
When  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  under  considera- 
tion, it  was  well  known  to  those  members  of  the  committee  [of  the 
whole]  who  were  present  at  that  time,  (and  some  he  saw,)  that  this 
[President's  power  of  appointing  to  office]  was  an  important  question. 
It  was  thrown  into  different  shapes,  until  at  last  it  was  adopted,  as 
it  appeared  in  the  Constitution.  This  regulation  was  adopted  upon 
principle,  and  was  not  a  mere  arbitrary  thing.  The  power  of  appoint- 
ing to  office  was  brought  down  by  placing  a  part  of  it  in  the  Legis- 
lature. It  was  further  restrained  by  prohibiting  any  member  of  the 
Legislature  from  enjoying,  during  the  period  for  which  he  was  elected, 
any  office  which  should  have  been  created,  or  the  emoluments  of 
which  should  have  been  increased,  during  that  time.  Thus,  hold- 
ing up  to  view  the  avenues  by  which  corruption  was  most  likely  to 
enter.  

CCLXXIII.    Baldwin:  Incident  in  House  of  Representatives.' 

1798  March  the  nth.  ...  Baldwin  mentions  at  table  the 
following  fact.  When  the  bank  bill  was  under  discussion  in  the 
House  of  Representatives,  Judge  Wilson  came  in,  and  was  stand- 
ing by  Baldwin.  Baldwin  reminded  him  of  the  following  fact 
which  passed  in  the  grand  convention.  Among  the  enumerated 
powers  given  to  Congress,  was  one  to  erect  corporations.  It  was, 
on  debate,  struck  out.  Several  particular  powers  were  then  pro- 
posed. Among  others,  Robert  Morris  proposed  to  give  Congress 
a  power  to  establish  a  national  bank.  Gouvemeur  Morris  opposed 
it,  observing  that  it  was  extremely  doubtful  whether  the  consti- 
tution they  were  framing  could  ever  be  passed  at  all  by  the 
people  of  America;  that  to  give  it  its  best  chance,  however, 
they  should  make  it  as  palatable  as  possible,  and  put  nothing  into 

*  Annab  of  Congress^  Fifth  Congress,  Vol.  I,  p.  905. 

'Jefferson's  Anas  in  T.  J.  Randolph,  Memoir ,  Correspondence  .  ,  ,  of  Thomas 
Jeferson,  IV,  506-507. 


376     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

it  not  very  essential,  which  might  raise  up  enemies;  that  his  col- 
league (Robert  Morris)  well  knew  that  'a  bank'  was,  in  their  State 
(Pennsylvania)  the  very  watch-word  of  party;  that  a  bank  had 
been  the  great  bone  of  contention  between  the  two  parties  of  the 
State,  from  the  establishment  of  their  constitution,  having  been 
erected,  put  down,  and  erected  again,  as  either  party  preponderated; 
that  therefore,  to  insert  this  power,  would  instantly  enlist  against 
the  whole  instrument,  the  whole  of  the  anti-bank  party  in  Pennsyl- 
vania. Whereupon  it  was  rejected,  as  was  every  other  special 
power,  except  that  of  giving  copyrights  to  authors,  and  patents 
to  inventors;  the  general  power  of  incorporating  being  whittled 
down  to  this  shred.    Wilson  agreed  to  the  fact. 


CCLXXIX.    Charles  Pinckney  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives.* 

May  ID,  1798. 
The  gentleman  from  Pennsylvania  had  said,  with  great  truth, 
that  it  was  the  object  of  those  who  formed  the  Constitution,  that 
the  powers  of  Government  should  be  distributed  among  the  differ- 
ent departments,  and  that  they  ought  not  to  be  assigned  or  relin- 
quished.   

CCLXXX.   Debate  in  the  House  of  Representatives.^ 

June  16-20,  1798. 
Mr.  B[aldwin].  thought  the  9th  section,  forbidding  Congress  to 
prohibit  the  migration,  &c.,  was  directly  opposed  to  the  principle 
of  this  bill.  He  recollected  very  well  that  when  the  9th  section  of 
the  Constitution  was  under  consideration  in  the  Convention,  the 
delegates  from  some  of  the  Southern  States  insisted  that  the  pro- 
hibition of  the  introduction  of  slaves  should  be  left  to  the  State 
Governments;  it  was  found  expedient  to  make  this  provision  in  the 
Constitution;  there  was  an  objection  to  the  use  of  the  word  slaves, 
as  Congress  by  none  of  their  acts  had  ever  acknowledged  the  exis- 
tence of  such  a  condition.  It  was  at  length  settled  on  the  words  as 
they  now  stand,  'that  the  migration  or  importation  of  such  persons 
as  the  several  States  shall  think  proper  to  admit,  should  not  be  pro- 
hibited till  the  year  1808.'  It  was  observed  by  some  gentlemen 
present  that  this  expression  would  extend  to  other  persons  besides 
slaves,'  which  was  not  denied,  but  this  did  not  produce  any  altera- 
tion of  it.  .  .  . 

^  Annals  of  Congress^  Fifth  Congress,  2d  and  3d  Session,  II,  1660. 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  Fifth  Congress,  2d  and  3d  Session,  II,  1968-2005. 

•  See  CCCXXXI  below. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLXXX  377 

Mr.  Dayton  (the  Speaker)  commenced  his  observations  with 
declaring  that  he  should  not  have  risen  on  this  occasion,  if  no  allu- 
sion had  been  made  to  the  proceedings  in  the  Federal  Convention 
which  framed  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  or  if  the  repre- 
sentation which  was  given  of  what  passed  in  that  body,  had  been  a 
perfectly  correct  and  candid  one.  He  expressed  his  surprise  at  what 
had  fallen  from  the  gentleman  from  Georgia  (Mr.  Baldwin)  relatively 
to  that  part  of  the  Constitution,  which  had  been  selected  as  the  text 
of  opposition  to  the  bill  under  consideration,  viz:  'The  migration 
'or  importation  of  such  persons  as  any  of  the  States  now  existing 
'shall  think  proper  to  admit,  shall  not  be  prohibited  by  Congress, 
'prior  to  the  year  1808.*  He  could  only  ascribe  either  to  absolute 
forgetfulness,  or  to  wilful  misrepresentation,  the  assertion  of  the 
member  from  Georgia,  that  it  was  understood  and  intended  by  the 
General  Convention  that  the  article  in  question  should  extend  to 
the  importation  or  introduction  of  citizens  from  foreign  countries. 
As  that  gentleman  and  himself  were  the  only  two  members  of  the 
House  of  Representatives  who  had  the  honor  of  a  seat  in  that  body, 
he  deemed  it  his  indispensable  duty  to  correct  the  misstatement  that 
had  thus  been  made.  He  did  not  therefore,  hesitate  to  say,  in  direct 
contradiction  to  this  novel  construction  of  the  article  (made  as  it 
would  seem  to  suit  the  particular  purposes  of  the  opponents  of  the 
Alien  bill)  that  the  proposition  itself  was  originally  drawn  up  and 
moved  in  the  Convention,  by  the  deputies  from  South  Carolina, 
for  the  express  purpose  of  preventing  Congress  from  interfering 
with  the  introduction  of  slaves  into  the  United  States,  within  the 
time  specified.  He  recollected  also,  that  in  the  discussion  of  its 
merits,  no  question  arose,  or  was  agitated  respecting  the  admission 
of  foreigners,  but,  on  the  contrary,  that  it  was  confined  simply  to 
slaves,  and  was  first  voted  upon  and  carried  with  that  word  expressed 
in  it,  which  was  afterwards  upon  reconsideration  changed  for  'such 
persons^  as  it  now  stands,  upon  the  suggestion  of  one  of  the 
Deputies  from  Connecticut.  The  sole  reason  assigned  for  changing 
it  was,  that  it  would  be  better  not  to  stain  the  Constitutional  code 
with  such  a  term,  since  it  could  be  avoided  by  the  introduction  of 
other  equally  intelligible  words,  as  had  been  done  in  the  former  part 
of  the  same  instrument,  where  the  same  sense  was  conveyed  by  the 
circuitous  expression  of  'three  fifths  of  all  other  persons.*  Mr. 
Dayton  said  that  at  that  time  he  was  far  from  believing,  and  that 
indeed  until  the  present  debate  arose,  he  had  never  heard,  that  any 
one  member  supposed  that  the  simple  change  of  the  term  would 
enlarge  the  construction  of  this  prohibitory  provision,  as  it  was  now 
contended  for.     If  it  could  have  been  conceived  to  be  really  liable 


378      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

to  such  interpretation,  he  was  convinced  that  it  would  not  have 
been  adopted,  for  it  would  then  carry  with  it  a  strong  injunction 
upon  Q^ngress  to  prohibit  the  introduction  of  foreigners  into  newly 
erected  States  immediately,  and  into  the  then  existing  States  after 
the  year  1808,  as  it  undoubtedly  does,  that  of  slaves  after  that 
period.    .  .  . 

Mr.  Baldwin  .  .  .  observed  that  he  was  yesterday  obliged  to 
leave  the  House  a  little  before  adjournment,  and  he  had  understood 
that,  in  his  absence,  the  remarks  which  he  had  made  on  that  point, 
a  few  days  ago,  in  Committee  of  the  Whole,  had  been  controverted, 
and  that  it  had  been  done  with  some  degree  of  harshness  and  personal 
disrespect.  What  he  had  before  asserted  was,  that  the  clause  respect- 
ing migration  and  importation  was  not  considered  at  the  time  when 
it  passed  in  the  Convention  as  confined  entirely  to  the  subject  of 
slaves.  He  spoke  with  the  more  confidence  on  this  point,  as  there 
was  scarcely  one  to  which  his  attention  had  been  so  particularly 
called  at  the  time.  In  making  the  Federal  Constitution,  when  it 
was  determined  that  it  should  be  a  Government  possessing  Legis- 
lative powers,  the  delegates  from  the  two  Southern  States,  of  which 
he  was  one,  were  so  fully  persuaded  that  those  powers  would  be  used 
to  the  destruction  of  their  property  in  slaves,  that  for  some  time  they 
thought  it  would  not  be  possible  for  them  to  be  members  of  it:  to 
that  interesting  state  of  the  subject  he  had  before  alluded.  In  the 
progress  of  the  business,  other  obstacles  occurring,  which  he  need 
not  repeat,  it  was  concluded  to  give  to  the  delegates  of  those  States 
the  offer  of  preparing  a  clause  to  their  own  minds,  to  secure  that 
species  of  property.  He  well  remembered  that  when  the  clause  was 
first  prepared,  it  differed  in  two  respects  from  the  form  in  which  it 
now  stands.  It  used  the  word  "slaves"  instead  of  "migration," 
or  "importation,"  of  persons,  and  instead  of  "ten  dollars,"  it  was 
expressed  "five  per  cent,  ad  valorem  on  their  importation,"  which 
it  was  supposed  would  be  about  the  average  rate  of  duties  under  this 
Government.  Several  persons  had  objections  to  the  use  of  the 
word  'slaves,'  as  Congress  had  hitherto  avoided  the  use  of  it  in  their 
acts,  and  not  acknowledged  the  existence  of  such  a  condition.  It 
was  expressly  observed  at  the  time,  that  making  use  of  the  form  of 
expression  as  it  now  stands,  instead  of  the  word  slaves,  would  make 
the  meaning  more  general,  and  include  what  we  now  consider  as 
included;  this  did  not  appear  to  be  denied,  but  still  it  was  preferred 
in  its  present  form.  He  had  more  confidence  than  common  in  his 
recollection  on  this  point,  for  the  reasons  which  he  had  before  stated. 
He  gave  it  as  the  result  of  his  very  clear  recollection.  Any  other 
member  of  that  body  was  doubtless  at  liberty  to  say  he  did  Qot 


APPENDIX  A,    CCLXXXI  379 

recollect  it.    Still  that  would  not  diminish  the  confidence  he  felt 
on  this  occasion.     .  .  . 

The  Speaker  rose  from  the  Chair  and  said,  that  there  was  some- 
thing so  unmanly  and  improper  in  the  opportunity  which  had  been 
sought  by  the  member  from  Georgia  of  replying  to  the  observations 
he  had  made  yesterday,  that  he  felt  himself  irresistibly  impelled  to 
break  through  the  rigid  form,  and  to  express,  in  a  single  word,  his 
sense  of  it.  It  could  not  have  escaped  the  general  observation,  that, 
although  they  had  been  for  some  time  in  Committee  of  the  Whole, 
when  the  Speaker  was  on  the  floor,  and  had  a  right  in  common  with 
the  other  members  to  join  in  any  discussion,  yet  that  member  had 
thought  proper  in  that  situation  to  maintain  a  perfect  silence,  and 
to  permit  the  committee  to  rise,  that  he  might  take  advantage  of 
the  injunction  imposed  upon  the  Chair  of  never  entering  into  the 
debate,  not  even  to  defend  himself.  This  advantage  had  been 
eagerly  seized,  and  the  House  were  witnesses  of  the  manner  of  his 
doing  it.  As  to  the  matter  contained  in  the  reply,  it  was  not  of 
such  importance,  nor  so  worthy  of  notice,  the  Speaker  said,  as  to 
justify  his  requesting  the  House  to  go  again  into  a  committee,  merely 
to  give  him  an  opportunity  of  directly  and  positively  contradicting 
the  member  from  Georgia,  as  he  should  most  assuredly  and  positively 
do,  so  far  as  respected  the  proceedings  of  the  Federal  Convention 
in  1787.  

CCLXXXI.   Albert  Gallatin  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives.* 

June  19,  1798. 
Mr.  G[allatin]  said  he  was  well  informed  that  those  words  had 
originally  been  inserted  in  the  Constitution  as  a  limitation  to  the 
power  of  laying  taxes.  After  the  limitation  had  been  agreed  to, 
and  the  Constitution  was  completed,  a  member  of  the  Convention, 
(he  was  one  of  the  members  who  represented  the  State  of  Penn- 
sylvania) being  one  of  a  committee  of  revisal  and  arrangement, 
attempted  to  throw  these  words  into  a  distinct  paragraph,  so  as  to 
create  not  a  limitation,  but  a  distinct  power.  The  trick,  however, 
was  discovered  by  a  member  from  Connecticut,  now  deceased,  and 
the  words  restored  as  they  now  stand.* 

m  .  * 

^  Annals  of  Congress,  Fifth  Congress,  2d  and  3d  Session,  II,  1976. 
*  Quite  probably  the  same  as  related  in  CCLXIX  above. 


380     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

« 

CCLXXXII.    Abraham  Baldwin  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives.^ 

January  11,  1799. 

All  society  showed  that  there  was  in  the  human  character  a 
foundation  for  radical  different  opinions  on  political  subjects;  there 
is  not  a  place  in  which  it  does  not  show  itself.  .  .  •  There  was  no 
doubt  but  that  it  showed  itself  early  in  this  country;    .  .  . 

It  also  showed  itself  soon  after  the  peace,  in  repeated  attempts 
to  jostle  the  pillars  of  the  old  Government,  and  that  in  defiance  and 
without  the  consent  of  those  who  were  administering  it.  After  they 
consented  to  recommend  a  Convention  to  make  alterations,  it  is 
well  known  to  have  shown  itself  in  that  assembly;  the  greatness 
of  the  occasion  unexpectedly  called  forth  such  a  portion  of  the  oldest 
and  most  venerable  statesmen  of  our  country  as  effectually  to  cor- 
rect and  control  the  councils  on  those  subjects;  they  kept  the  same 
ground  as  the  Revolution  had  taken,  and  which  was  seen  in  all  the 
State  Governments.  They  took  their  principles  from  that  set  of 
political  economists  and  philosophers  now  generally  denominated  in 
the  English  language  Whigs,  and  consecrated  them  as  a  Constitution 
for  the  government  of  the  Country.  Though  this  was  a  very  great 
and  decided  majority,  yet  it  is  equally  well  known  that  there  were 
some  who  entertained  very  different  opinions;  they  no  doubt  still 
entertain  them,  and  they  who  expect  to  find  any  time  when  this 
will  not  be  the  case,  expect  too  much  of  human  nature,  they  will  be 
sure  to  be  disappointed.         

CCLXXXIII.    Abraham  Baldwin  in  the  House  of  Represen- 
tatives.* 

January  15,  1799- 

But  it  is  insisted  on,  said  Mr.  B.,  by  some  gentlemen,  that  as 
the  power  to  pass  uniform  laws  on  the  subject  of  bankruptcy  is 
expressly  given  to  Congress  by  the  Constitution,  it  is  their  duty  to 
do  it;  and  some  go  as  far  as  to  say  that  it  is  not  proper  for  the  States 
to  legislate  on  that  subject.  He  thought  there  was  no  great  weight 
in  that  argument.  Congress  not  having  passed  such  a  law  for 
these  ten  years  past,  and  the  States  having  legislated  upon  it  in 
their  own  way,  is  a  sufficient  proof  that  that  has  not  been  the 
understanding  of  the  Constitution.    .  .  . 

Many  other  instances  might  be  adduced  to  prove  the  same 
thing,  if  necessary.  The  fact  is,  the  powers  given  to  Congress  as 
well  as  to  all  other  Legislatures,  are  in  general  submitted  to  their 

^  Anfuds  of  Congress,  Fifdi  Congress,  III,  2630-2631. 
*  Annals  of  Congress ^  Fifth  Congress,  III,  2670-2671. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLXXXIV  38 1 

« 

discretion  to  use  them  as  the  circumstances  of  the  country  should 
require.  He  had  no  doubt  in  saying,  as  well  from  the  perusal  of 
the  instrument  as  from  his  own  recollection,  that  many  of  them 
must  have  been  considered  as  of  very  difficult  execution,  and  that  it 
must  have  been  supposed  that  the  existence  of  the  power  in  Congress 
would  effect  the  control  which  they  desired,  would  check  the  abuses 
which  might  otherwise  have  taken  place,  and  prevent  the  necessity 
of  using  it.  Any  other  view  of  that  instrument,  he  thought,  would 
lead  to  great  perplexity  and  embarrassment.  He  was  sure  it  was 
the  one  which  its  best  friends  had  originally  indulged,  and  had  made 
the  administration  of  the  Government  much  more  practicable  and 
successful  than  it  otherwise  could  have  been. 


CCLXXXIV.    James  Madison  to  Thomas  Jefferson.* 

Feby  8,  1799. 
The  idea  of  publishing  the  Debates  of  the  Convention  ought 
to  be  well  weighed  before  the  expediency  of  it,  in  a  public  as  well 
as  personal  view  be  decided  on.  Besides  the  intimate  connection 
between  them  the  whole  volume  ought  to  be  examined  with  an  eye 
to  the  use  of  which  every  part  is  susceptible.  In  the  Despotism 
at  present  exercised  over  the  rules  of  construction,  and  [illegi- 
ble] reports  of  the  proceedings  that  would  perhaps  be  made  out 
&  mustered  for  the  occasion,  it  is  a  problem  what  turn  might  be 
given  to  the  impression  on  the  public  mind.  But  I  shall  be  better 
able  to  form  &  explain  my  opinion  by  the  time,  which  now  approaches 
when  I  shall  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you.  And  you  will  have 
the  advantage  of  looking  into  the  sheets  attentively  before  you 
finally  make  up  your  own.     

CCLXXXV.    GouvERNEUR  Morris:  Oration  upon  Washington.* 

It  is  a  question,  previous  to  the  first  meeting,  what  course  shall 
be  pursued.  Men  of  decided  temper,  who,  devoted  to  the  public, 
overlooked  prudential  considerations,  thought  a  form  of  government 
should  be  framed  entirely  new.  But  cautious  men,  with  whom 
popularity  was  an  object,  deemed  it  fit  to  consult  and  comply  with 
the  wishes  of  the  people.  AMERICANS!  —  let  the  opinion  then 
delivered  by  the  greatest  and  best  of  men,  be  ever  present  to  your 
remembrance.  He  was  collected  within  himself.  His  countenance 
had  more  than  usual  solemnity  —  His  eye  was  fixed,  and  seemed  to 

*  Hunt,  Writings,  of  Madison,  VI,  329-330. 

•G.  Morris,  An  Oration  upon  the  Death  of  General  JFashington,  p.  20-21;  de- 
livered in  New  York,  December  31,  1799. 


382     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

look  into  futurity.  '  It  is  (said  he) too  probable  that  no  plan  we  pro- 
pose will  be  adopted.  Perhaps  another  dreadful  conflict  is  to  be 
sustained.  If  to  please  the  people,  we  offer  what  we  ourselves  dis- 
approve, how  can  we  afterwards  defend  our  work.^  Let  us  raise  a 
standard  to  which  the  wise  and  the  honest  can  repair.  The  event 
is  in  the  hand  of  God.'  —  this  was  the  patriot  voice  of  WASHING- 
TON; and  this  the  constant  tenor  of  his  conduct. 


CCLXXXVI.    Debate  in  the  United  States  Senate.* 

January  23,  1800. 

Mr.  C.  Pinckney,  of  South  Carolina,  .  .  .  remembered  very 
well  that  in  the  Federal  Convention  great  care  was  used  to  provide 
for  the  election  of  the  President  of  the  United  States,  independently 
of  Congress;  to  take  the  business  as  far  as  possible  out  of  their  hands. 
The  votes  are  to  be  given  by  Electors  appointed  for  that  express 
purpose,  the  Electors  are  to  be  appointed  by  each  State,  and  the 
whole  direction  as  to  the  manner  of  their  appointment  is  given  to 
the  State  Legislatures.  Nothing  was  more  clear  to  him  than  that 
Congress  had  no  right  to  meddle  with  it  at  all;  as  the  whole  was 
entrusted  to  the  State  Legislatures,  they  must  make  provision  for 
all  questions  arising  on  the  occasion. 

Mr.  Baldwin,  of  Georgia  .  .  .  must  say,  for  himself,  that  he 
did  not  agree  that  the  present  provisions  on  this  subject  were 
80  defective  and  absurd  as  had  been  represented.  His  general 
respect  for  those  who  had  gone  before  him  in  this  House,  and 
especially  for  the  venerable  assembly  of  the  most  experienced 
statesmen  of  the  country  by  whom  the  Constitution  had  been 
formed,  forbade  him  to  entertain  the  belief  that  this  subject,  which 
is  the  strong  feature  that  characterizes  this  as  an  Elective  Gov- 
ernment, could  have  been  till  now  so  entirely  out  of  sight  and 
neglected.  Gentlemen  appeared  to  him,  from  their  observations, 
to  forget  that  the  Constitution  in  directing  Electors  to  be  appointed 
throughout  the  United  States  equal  to  the  whole  number  of  the 
Senators  and  Representatives  in  Congress,  for  the  express  purpose 
of  entrusting  this  Constitutional  branch  of  power  to  them,  had  pro- 
vided for  the  existence  of  as  respectable  a  body  as  Congress,  and  in 
whom  the  Constitution  on  this  business  has  more  confidence  than 
in  Congress.  Experience  had  proved  that  a  more  venerable  selec- 
tion of  characters  could  not  be  made  in  this  country  than  usually 
composed  that  electoral  body.  And  what  are  the  questions  which 
can  arise  on  the  subject  entrusted  to  them  to  which  they  are  incom- 

^  Jnnals  of  Congress,  Sixth  Congress,  29-32. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCLXXXVI  383 

petent,  or  to  which  Congress  is  so  much  more  competent?  The  ques- 
tions which  present  themselves  seem  to  be: 

1.  Those  which  relate  to  the  elections,  returns  and  qualifications, 
of  their  own  members.  Shall  these  be  taken  away  from  that  body, 
and  submitted  to  the  superior  decision  and  control  of  Congress, 
without  a  particle  of  authority  for  it  from  the  Constitution? 

2.  The  legality  or  constitutionality  of  the  different  steps  of  their 
own  proceedings,  as,  whether  they  vote  for  two  persons  both  of  the 
same  state;  whether  they  receive  votes  for  a  person  under  thirty- 
five  years  of  age,  or  one  who  has  not  been  fourteen  years  a  citizen 
of  the  United  States  &c.  It  is  true  they,  as  well  as  any  other  Con- 
stitutional branch  of  this  Government  acting  under  that  instrument, 
may  be  guilty  of  taking  unconstitutional  or  corrupt  steps,  but  they 
do  it  at  their  peril.  Suppose  either  of  the  other  branches  of  the 
Government,  the  Executive  or  the  Judiciary,  or  even  Congress, 
should  be  guilty  of  taking  steps  which  are  unconstitutional,  to  whom 
it  is  submitted,  or  who  has  control  over  it,  except  by  impeachment? 
The  Constitution  seems  to  have  equal  confidence  in  all  the  branches 
on  their  own  proper  ground,  and  for  either  to  arrogate  superiority, 
or  a  claim  to  greater  confidence,  shows  them  in  particular  to  be 
unworthy  of  it,  as  it  is  in  itself  directly  unconstitutional. 

3.  The  authentication  of  their  own  acts.  This  would  seem  to 
be  as  complete  in  them,  as  in  either  of  the  other  branches  of  the 
Government.  Their  own  authentication  of  their  act  finishes  the 
business  entrusted  to  them.  It  is  true  this  must  be  judged  of  by 
the  persons  who  are  concerned  in  carrying  it  into  execution;  as  in 
all  laws  and  ofiUcial  acts  under  this  Government,  they  to  whom  they 
are  directed,  and  who  are  to  be  bound  by  them,  must  judge,  and 
judge  at  their  peril,  whether  they  are  duly  authenticated  or  whether 

.  they  are  only  a  forgery. 

If  this  be  the  just  view  of  the  subject,  (and  he  could  see  no  other 
which  did  not  involve  inextricable  difiliculties,)  it  leaves  no  possible 
question  for  the  Senators  and  Representatives,  when  met  together 
to  count  the  votes  agreeably  to  the  Constitution,  but  to  judge  of 
the  authentication  of  the  act  of  the  Electors,  and  then  to  proceed 
and  count  the  votes  as  directed.  If  this  body  of  the  Electors  of  all 
the  States  had  been  directed  by  the  Constitution  to  assemble  in 
one  place,  instead  of  being  formed  into  different  Electoral  colleges, 
he  took  it  for  granted  none  of  the  questions  on  which  this  resolution 
had  been  brought  forward,  would  have  occurred;  every  one  would 
have  acknowledged  that  they  were  to  be  settled  in  that  assembly. 
It  having  been  deemed  more  safe  by  the  Constitution  to  form  them 
into  different  Electoral  colleges,  to  be  assembled  in  the  several 


384      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

States,  does  not  at  all  alter  the  nature  or  distinctness  of  their  powers, 
or  subject  them  any  more  to  the  control  of  the  other  departments 
of  the  Government. 

He  observed  further,  on  the  other  points  to  which  gentlemen 
had  spoken,  that  if  such  radical  and  important  changes  were  to  be 
made  on  this  subject,  as  seemed  to  be  in  contemplation  under  this 
resolution,  he  thought  they  must  be  made  by  proposing  an  amend- 
ment to  the  Constitution  to  that  effect;  and  that  they  could  not  be 
made  by  law,  without  violating  the  Constitution.  He  did  not  agree 
with  the  gentleman  from  Massachusetts,  (Mr.  Dexter,)  that  the 
clause  at  the  close  of  the  8th  section  of  the  Constitution,  which  gives 
to  Congress  power  to  pass  all  laws  necessary  and  proper  to  carry 
into  effect  the  foregoing  powers  of  that  section,  and  all  other  powers 
vested  by  the  Constitution  in  the  Government  of  the  United  States, 
or  in  any  department  or  officer  thereof,  could  be  extended  to  this 
case;  that  speaks  of  the  use  of  the  powers  vested  by  the  Constitu- 
tion —  this  resolution  relates  to  the  formation  of  a  competent  and 
essential  part  of  the  Government  itself:  that  speaks  of  the  move- 
ments of  the  Government  after  it  is  organized;  this  relates  to  the 
organization  of  the  Executive  branch,  and  is  therefore  clearly  a 
Constitutional  work,  and  to  be  done,  if  at  all,  in  the  manner  pointed 
out  by  the  Constitution,  by  proposing  an  article  of  amendment  to 
the  Constitution  on  that  subject.  His  own  opinion,  however,  was, 
what  he  had  before  stated,  that  the  provisions  on  this  subject  were 
already  sufficient;  that  all  the  questions  which  had  been  suggested 
were  as  safely  left  to  the  decision  of  the  assemblies  of  Electors,  as 
of  any  body  of  men  that  could  be  devised;  and  that  the  members 
of  the  Senate  and  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  when  met  to- 
gether in  one  room,  should  receive  the  act  of  the  Electors  as  they 
would  the  act  of  any  other  Constitutional  branch  of  the  Government, 
to  judge  only  of  its  authentication,  and  then  to  proceed  to  count 
the  votes,  as  directed  in  the  second  article  of  the  Constitution. 


CCLXXXVII.    Charles  Pinckney  in  the  Unffed  States  Sen- 
ate.* 

March  5,  1800. 
The  remainder  of  the  clause  respecting  privilege  is  so  express 
on  the  subjects  of  privilege  from  arrest,  government  of  members, 
and  expulsion,  that  every  civil  officer  in  the  United  States,  and  every 
man  who  has  the  least  knowledge,  cannot  misunderstand  them.  I 
assert,  that  it  was  the  design  of  the  Constitution,  and  that  not  only 

^  Annals  of  Congress^  Sixth  Congreas,  72,  74,  97,  xox. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLXXXVIII  385 

its  spirit,  but  letter,  warrant  me  in  the  assertion,  that  it  never  was 
intended  to  give  Congress,  or  either  branch,  any  but  specified,  and 
those  very  limited,  privileges  indeed.  They  well  knew  how  oppres- 
sively the  power  of  undefined  privileges  had  been  exercised  in  Great 
Britain,  and  were  determined  no  such  authority  should  ever  be  exer- 
cised here.  They  knew  that  in  free  countries  very  few  privileges 
were  necessary  to  the  undisturbed  exercise  of  legislative  duties,  and 
those  few  only  they  determined  that  Congress  should  possess;  they 
never  meant  that  the  body  who  ought  to  be  the  purest,'  and  the 
least  in  want  of  shelter  from  the  operation  of  laws  equally  afi^ecting 
all  their  fellow  citizens,  should  be  able  to  avoid  them;  they  therefore 
not  only  intended,  but  did  confine  their  privileges  within  the  narrow 
limits  mentioned  in  the  Constitution. 

.  .  .  Let  us  inquire,  why  the  Constitution  should  have  been  so 
attentive  to  each  branch  of  Congress,  so  jealous  of  their  privileges, 
and  have  shewn  so  little  to  the  President  of  the  United  States  in 
this  respect.  .  .  .  No  privilege  of  this  kind  was  intended  for  your 
Executive,  nor  any  except  that  which  I  have  mentioned  for  your 
Legislature.  The  Convention  which  formed  the  Constitution  well 
knew  that  this  was  an  important  point,  and  no  subject  had  been 
more  abused  than  privilege.  They  therefore  determined  to  set 
the  example,  in  merely  limiting  privilege  to  what  was  necessary, 
and  no  more. 

.  •  .  If  the  opinions  of  the  Federal  Convention  ought  to  have 
weight,  they  so  strongly  insisted  upon  it  [the  separation  of  the  three 
departments  of  government]  as  even  to  refuse  after  repeated  trials, 
associating  the  Judges  with  the  President  in  the  exercise  of  his  re- 
visionary   power. 

...  I  have  always  been  of  opinion,  that  it  was  wrong  to  give 
the  nomination  of  Judges  to  the  President. 


CCLXXXVIIL    Charles  Pinckney  in  the  United  States  Sen- 
ate.^ 

March  28,  I800. 
It  was  intended  to  give  your  President  the  command  of  your 
forces,  the  disposal  of  all  the  honors  and  offices  of  your  Government, 
the  management  of  your  foreign  concerns,  and  the  revision  of  your 
laws.  Invested  with  these  important  powers,  it  was  easily  to  be 
seen  that  the  honor  and  interest  of  your  Government  required  he 
should  execute  them  with  firmness  and  impartiality;  that,  to  do 
this,  he  must  be  independent  of  the  Legislature;    that  they  must 


*  Aniuds  of  Congress,  Sixth  Congress,  129-139. 


386     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

have  no  control  over  his  election;  that  the  only  mode  to  prevent 
this  was  to  give  the  exclusive  direction  to  the  State  Legislatures  in 
the  mode  of  choosing  Electors,  who  should  be  obliged  to  vote  secretly; 
and  that  the  vote  should  be  taken  in  such  manner,  and  on  the  same 
day,  as  to  make  it  impossible  for  the  different  States  to  know  who 
the  Electors  are  for,  or  for  improper  domestic,  or,  what  is  of  much 
more  consequence,  foreign  influence  and  gold  to  interfere;  that  by 
doing  this  the  President  would  really  hold  his  office  independent  of 
the  Legislature;  that  instead  of  being  the  creature,  he  would  be 
the  man  of  the  people;  that  he  would  have  to  look  to  them,  and  to 
the  confidence  which  he  felt  his  own  meritorious  actions  would  in- 
spire, for  applause  or  subsequent  appointments.    •  .  • 

Knowing  that  it  was  the  intention  of  the  Constitution  to  make 
the  President  completely  independent  of  the  Federal  Legislature, 
I  well  remember  it  was  the  object,  as  it  is  at  present  not  only  the 
spirit  but  the  letter  of  that  instrument,  to  give  to  Congress  no  inter- 
ference in,  or  control  over  the  election  of  a  President.  It  is  made 
their  duty  to  count  over  the  votes  in  a  convention  of  both  Houses, 
and  for  the  President  of  the  Senate  to  declare  who  has  the  majority 
of  the  votes  of  the  Electors  so  transmitted.  It  never  was  intended, 
nor  could  it  have  been  safe,  in  the  Constitution,  to  have  given  to 
Congress  thus  assembled  in  convention,  the  right  to  object  to  any 
vote,  or  even  to  question  whether  they  were  constitutionally  or 
properly  given.  This  right  of  determining  on  the  manner  in  which 
the  Electors  shall  vote;  the  inquiry  into  the  qualifications,  and  the 
guards  necessary  to  prevent  disqualified  or  improper  men  voting, 
and  to  insure  the  votes  being  legally  given,  rests  and  is  exclusively 
vested  in  the  State  Legislatures.  If  it  is  necessary  to  have  guards 
against  improper  elections  of  Electors,  and  to  institute  tribunals 
to  inquire  into  their  qualifications,  with  the  State  Legislatures, 
and  with  them  alone,  rests  the  power  to  institute  them,  and  they 
must  exercise  it.  To  give  to  Congress,  even  when  assembled  in  con- 
vention, a  right  to  reject  or  admit  the  votes  of  States,  would  have 
been  so  gross  and  dangerous  an  absurdity,  as  the  framers  of  the  Con- 
stitution never  could  have  been  guilty  of.  How  could  they  expect, 
that  in  deciding  on  the  election  of  a  President,  particularly  where 
such  election  was  strongly  contested,  that  party  spirit  would  not 
prevail,  and  govern  every  decision?  Did  they  not  know  how  easy 
it  was  to  raise  objections  against  the  votes  of  particular  elections, 
and  that  in  determining  upon  these,  it  was  more  than  probable,  the 
members  would  recollect  their  sideSy  their  favorite  candidate,  and 
sometimes  their  own  interests?  Or  must  they  not  have  supposed, 
that,  in  putting  the  ultimate  and  final  decision  of  the  Electors  in 


APPENDIX  A,   CCLXXXVIII  387 

Congress,  who  were  to  decide  irrevocably  and  without  appeal,  they 
would  render  the  President  their  creature,  and  prevent  his  assuming 
and  exercising  that  independence  in  the  performance  of  his  duties 
upon  which  the  safety  and  honor  of  the  Government  must  forever 
rest?    .  .  . 

The  disqualifications  against  any  citizen  being  an  Elector,  are 
very  few  indeed;  they  are  two.  The  first,  that  no  officer  of  the 
United  States  shall  be  an  Elector;  and  the  other,  that  no  member 
of  Congress  shall.  The  first,  an  indispensable  one,  because  every 
officer  of  the  United  States  is  nominated  by  the  President,  and  (except 
Judges)  removable  at  his  pleasure.  The  latter,  that  no  member  of 
Congress  shall,  is  a  provision  which  goes  unanswerably  to  prove 
the  solidity  of  my  objections  to  this  bill,  and  to  show  how  extremely 
guarded  the  Constitution  is  in  preventing  the  members  of  Congress 
from  having  any  agency  in  the  election,  except  merely  in  counting 
the  votes. 

They  well  knew,  that  to  give  to  the  members  of  Congress  a  right 
to  give  votes  in  this  election,  or  to  decide  upon  them  when  given, 
was  to  destroy  the  independence  of  the  Executive,  and  make  him 
the  creature  of  the  Legislature.  This  therefore  they  have  guarded 
against,  and  to  insure  experience  and  attachment  to  the  country, 
they  have  determined  that  no  man  who  is  not  a  natural  born  citizen, 
or  citizen  at  the  adoption  of  the  Constitution,  of  fourteen  years 
residence,  and  thirty-five  years  of  age,  shall  be  eligible.     .  .  . 

In  1792,  being  the  first  time  the  exercise  of  this  power  was  neces- 
sary, Congress  passed  a  law,  entitled  ''An  act  relative  to  the  election 
of  President  and  Vice  President,"  &c.,  directing  how  the  States 
should  appoint  Electors  for  the  election;  when  they  should  meet 
and  vote;  that  they  should  sign  three  certificates  of  all  the  votes 
given;  directing  how  the  votes  should  be  disposed  of;  detailing  the 
duty  of  the  Executive  of  each  State  in  certifying  the  lists  of  Electors 
chosen;  of  the  Secretary  of  State  on  the  non-receipt  of  votes;  that 
Congress  shall  always  be  in  session  on  the  second  Wednesday  in 
February  in  every  fourth  year,  for  the  purpose  of  opening  and  count- 
ing the  votes,  and  declaring  a  President  elected  agreeably  to  the 
Constitution;  ascertaining  the  duties,  allowances  to,  and  penalties 
on  persons  sent  with  the  votes;  and  making  provision  in  case  of  the 
death  of  both  President  stnd  Vice  President,  or  their  refusal  to  serve, 
and  fixing  the  time  when  their  service  commences. 

It  is  very  important  in  deciding  on  the  bill  before  you,  to  peruse 
this  act  with  great  attention;  to  recollect  by  whom,  and  when, 
and  under  what  circumstances,  it  was  made.  This  law  was  passed 
in  1792,  when  a  number  of  able  and  well  informed  men,  who  have 


388      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

been  since  appointed  to  some  of  your  most  respectable  situations 
at  home  and  abroad,  and  many  who  have  voluntarily  retired  with 
deserved  and  well-earned  honor  to  private  life,  filled  the  seats  of 
both  Houses  of  Congress:  when  the  Executive  authority  was  held 
by  Gen.  Washington,  for  whom  your  whole  nation  at  present 
mourns;  by  him  who  had  no  rival  in  the  public  affection,  whose 
honors  no  man  envied,  and  whose  re-election  to  office  as  long  as  he 
pleased,  he  well  knew,  would  always  have  been  without  contest; 
in  him  was  placed  the  revision  of  your  laws.  And  here,  sir,  let  me 
ask,  whether  from  a  Congress  thus  ably  formed,  and  from  an  Execu- 
tive thus  discerning  and  independent,  as  much  knowledge  of  the  Con- 
stitution, its  precise  directions,  and  the  agency  it  intended  Congress 
to  have  in  the  counting  the  votes  and  declaring  the  President,  were 
not  to  have  been  expected,  as  from  the  present?  Were  not  the  then 
Executive,  and  a  number  of  the  members  of  both  Houses,  members 
of  the  Convention  which  framed  the  Constitution;  and  if  it  intended 
to  give  to  Congress,  or  to  authorize  them  to  delegate  to  a  committee 
of  their  body,  powers  contemplated  by  this  bill,  could  the  Congress 
or  the  President  of  1792,  have  been  so  extremely  uninformed,  and 
indeed  ignorant  of  its  meaning  and  of  their  duty,  as  not  to  have 
known  it? 

...  By  viewing  the  ist  section  of  the  2d  article  of  the  Consti- 
tution, it  is  to  be  seen,  that  on  the  day  fixed  by  law,  which  is  the 
second  Wednesday  in  February,  the  President  of  the  Senate  shall, 
in  the  presence  of  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives,  open 
all  the  certificates,  and  the  votes  shall  then  be  counted;  the  person 
having  the  greatest  number  of  votes  shall  be  President,  if  such  num- 
ber be  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  Electors  appointed;  and 
if  there  be  more  than  one  who  have  such  majority,  and  have  an 
equal  number  of  votes,  then,  the  House  of  Representatives  shall 
immediately  choose  by  ballot  one  of  them  for  President;  and  if  no 
person  have  a  majority,  then,  from  the  five  highest  on  the  list,  the 
said  House  shall  in  like  manner  choose  the  President.  From  this 
part  of  the  Constitution  it  is  evident  that  no  power  or  authority  is 
given  to  Congress,  even  when  both  houses  are  assembled  in  conven- 
tion, further  than  to  open  and  count  the  votes,  and  declare  who 
are  the  President  and  Vice  President,  if  an  election  has  been  made; 
but  that  in  case  no  election  is  made  by  the  Electors,  or  no  candidate 
has  a  majority,  then  the  House  of  Representatives  are  (voting  by 
States)  immediately  to  choose,  out  of  the  five  highest  on  the  list,  the 
President,  &c. 

In  order  that  every  man  may  understand  what  is  here  meant 
by  the  Constitution,  and  what  is  its  express  directions  and  letter  as 


APPENDIX  A,    CCLXXXVIII  389 

to  this  election,  let  us  examine  what  is  the  literal  meaning  of  the 
word  immediately^  and  why  it  was  introduced  here.  The  best  and 
most  generally  admired  expounders  of  the  English  language,  give 
this  explanation  of  the  word  immediately;  they  say  it  means  "in- 
stantly"—  at  the  present  time  —  without  delay.  This  is  the 
meaning  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  intended  to  give  it,  and  it 
admits  of  no  other.  The  plain,  express,  literal  direction  of  that 
instrument  therefore  is,  that  in  case  of  no  election,  the  House  of 
Representatives,  voting  by  States,  are  immediately^  that  is  instantly, 
and  on  the  spot,  without  leaving  the  House  in  which  they  are  then 
assembled,  and  without  adjournment,  to  choose,  out  of  the  five 
highest  candidates  that  have  been  voted  for  by  the  Electors,  the  one 
who  is  to  be  the  Executive. 

The  reasons  for  this  immediate  election  are,  in  my  judgment, 
unanswerable;  they  show  very  clearly  the  foresight  and  caution 
of  the  Convention,  and,  if  not  strictly  attended  to,  may  be  produc- 
tive of  the  most  serious  calamities  to  our  country.  The  reasons 
are  these:  that  from  our  rapidly  increasing  strength  and  commerce, 
from  the  enterprise  of  our  citizens,  and  our  particular  maritime 
situation  as  it  respects  the  West  Indies,  South  America,  and  the 
Powers  having  possessions  in  both,  it  was  easily  to  be  seen,  that 
in  any  conflict  between  these  Powers,  our  friendship  or  hospitality 
must  be  of  the  greatest  importance;  that  they  therefore  would  never 
cease  to  interfere  in  our  politics  and  endeavor  to  direct  them  in  the 
manner  most  suitable  to  their  own  interests;  that  from  the  diffi- 
culty of  influencing  so  large  a  body  as  Congress,  and  from  the  im- 
mense power  of  the  President,  not  only  over  the  laws,  but  foreign 
connexions  of  the  Union,  that  their  principal  effort  would  be  always 
to  have  one  of  their  own  friends  chosen;  and  to  effect  this,  no  influ- 
ence would  be  left  untried.  To  prevent  this  therefore,  and  to  make 
the  Executive  independent  of  Congress,  the  election  has  been  given 
exclusively  to  the  States,  under  the  direction  of  the  State  Legisla- 
tures. If  an  election  is  made  by  the  Electors,  and  subject  to  no 
future  control  or  revision  on  the  part  of  Congress,  then  the  end 
intended  by  the  Constitution,  of  preventing  the  interference  of  for- 
eign influence,  is  completely  answered:  for,  elected  as  they  are,  and 
voting  as  the  Electors  must,  the  interference  of  foreign  gold,  or 
influence,  is  impossible.  But  it  was  to  be  supposed,  that  instances 
would  occur,  where  two  candidates,  having  a  majority,  may  be 
equal  in  their  number  of  votes;  or  where  no  candidate  had  a  major- 
ity of  the  whole  of  the  Electors  appointed,  and  an  election  must 
take  place  by  the  National  Legislature,  or  a  branch  of  it;  the  question 
then  arose,  how  was  this  election  to  be  guarded  to  prevent,  as  far 


390     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

as  human  prudence  could,  improper  domestic  combinations,  or, 
what  is  infinitely  worse,  foreign  interference?  It  was  a  difficult 
thing,  and  required  much  deliberation.  The  Constitution  directs 
that  the  Electors  shall  vote  by  balloty  and  seal  up  and  transmit  their 
votes  to  the  President  of  the  Senate.  It  is  expected  and  required 
by  the  Constitution,  that  the  votes  shall  be  secret  and  unknown, 
until  opened  in  the  presence  of  both  Houses.  To  suffer  them  to 
be  known,  as  heretofore,  has  been  the  practice,  is  unconstitutional 
and  dangerous,  and  goes  to  defeat  in  some  measure,  the  wise  pro- 
visions of  that  instrument,  in  declaring,  that  when  the  House  of 
Representatives  are  to  elect,  that  it  shall  be  done  immediately. 
The  Electors,  therefore,  ought  never  to  divulge  their  votes.     .  .  . 

It  is  to  be  remembered,  that  around  the  seat  of  Congress  will 
be  placed  all  the  open  and  accredited  Ministers,  as  well  as  secret 
emissaries,  of  foreign  Powers.  Here  too  will  be  assembled  the  con- 
cealed leaders  of  domestic  faction;  all  the  arts  and  intrigues  that 
have  been  used  in  Elective  Governments  in  the  Old  World,  will 
soon  find  their  way  among  us;  and  if  the  Electors  do  not  conceal 
their  votes  until  the  day  appointed  by  law  for  opening  them,  and  in 
case  of  no  election  by  them,  an  immediate  one  by  the  House  of 
Representatives  does  not  take  place,  we  shall  soon  have  the  scenes 
of  Polish  Diets  and  elections  re-acted  here,  and  in  not  many  years 
the  fate  of  Poland  may  be  that  of  United  America. 

\^sely  foreseeing  this,  the  Constitution  expressly  orders  that 
the  Electors  shall  vote  by  ballot;  and  we  all  know,  that  to  vote  by 
ballot  is  to  vote  secretly;  that  the  votes  shall  be  sealed  up,  and  not 
opened  until  the  day  appointed  by  law,  and  that  if  no  election  has 
been  made  by  the  Electors,  an  immediate  one  shall  take  place  by 
the  House  of  Representatives;  that  so  far  from  appointing  commit- 
tees to  receive  memorials  or  petitions  respecting  the  election,  or 
decide  upon  it,  or  so  far  from  having  any  right  to  delegate  an  authority 
on  this  subject,  that  Congress  shall  not  themselves,  even  when  in 
convention,  have  the  smallest  power  to  decide  on  a  single  vote; 
that  they  shall  not  have  authority  to  adjourn  for  one  moment,  but 
shall  instantly  and  on  the  spot,  in  case  of  no  election  by  the  Elec- 
tors, proceed  to  the  choice  of  a  President,  and  not  separate  until  it 
is  determined.  

CCLXXXIX.    GouvERNEUR  Morris  in  the  United  States  Sen- 
ate.* 

January  8,  1802. 
There  are  some  honorable  gentlemen  now  present,  who  sat  in 

^  Annab  of  Confess,  Seventh  Congress,  First  Setskm,  1, 40. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXC  39 1 

the  Convention  which  formed  this  Constitution.  I  appeal  to  their 
recollection,  if  they  have  not  seen  the  time  when  the  fate  of  America 
was  siLBpended  by  a  hair?  my  life  for  it,  if  another  convention  be 
assembled,  they  will  part  without  doing  anything.  Never,  in  the 
flow  of  time,  was  there  a  moment  so  propitious,  as  that  in  which 
the  Convention  assembled.  The  States  had  been  convinced,  by 
melancholy  experience,  how  inadequate  they  were  to  the  manage- 
ment of  our  national  concerns.  The  passions  of  the  people  were 
lulled  to  sleep;  State  pride  slumbered;  the  Constitution  was  promul- 
gated; and  then  it  awoke,  and  opposition  was  formed;  but  it  was 
in  vain.  The  people  of  America  bound  the  States  down  by  this 
compact.  

CCXC.     GOUVERNEUR  MoRRIS   IN  THE  UniTED   StATES   SeNATE.^ 

January  14,  1802. 
To  form,  therefore,  a  more  perfect  union,  and  to  insure 
domestic  tranquillity,  the  Constitution  has  said  there  shall  be  courts 
of  the  Union  to  try  causes,  by  the  wrongful  decision  of  which  the 
Union  might  be  endangered  or  domestic  tranquillity  be  disturbed. 
And  what  courts?  Look  again  at  the  cases  designated.  The  Su- 
preme Court  has  no  original  jurisdiction.  The  Constitution  has 
said  that  the  judicial  powers  shall  be  vested  in  the  supreme  and  in- 
ferior courts.  It  has  declared  that  the  judicial  power  so  vested 
shall  extend  to  the  cases  mentioned,  and  that  the  Supreme  Court 
shall  not  have  original  jurisdiction  in  those  cases.  Evidently, 
therefore,  it  has  declared  that  they  shall  (in  the  first  instance)  be 
tried  by  inferior  courts,  with  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court.  This, 
therefore,  amounts  to  a  declaration,  that  the  inferior  courts  shall 
exist.  Since,  without  them,  the  citizen  is  deprived  of  those  rights 
for  which  he  stipulated,  or  rather  those  rights  verbally  granted  would 
be  actually  withheld;  and  that  great  security  of  our  Union,  that 
necessary  guard  of  our  tranquillity,  be  completely  paralyzed,  if  not 
destroyed.  In  declaring  then  that  these  tribunals  shall  exist,  it 
equally  declares  that  the  Congress  shall  ordain  and  establish  them. 
I  say  they  shall;  this  is  the  evident  intention,  if  not  the  express 
words,  of  the  Constitution.  The  Convention  in  framing,  the  Ameri- 
can people  in  adopting,  that  compact,  did  not,  could  not  presume, 
that  the  Congress  would  omit  to  do  what  they  were  thus  bound 
to  do.  They  could  not  presume,  that  the  Legislature  would  hesitate 
one  moment,  in  establishing  the  organs  necessary  to  carry  into  effect 
those  wholesome,  those  important  provisions.     .  .  . 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  Seventh  Congress,  First  Session,  1, 78-79,  86-87. 


392      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

The  Constitution  says,  the  judicial  power  shall  be  vested  in 
one  Supreme  G>urt9  and  in  inferior  courts.  The  Legislature  can 
therefore  only  organize  one  Supreme  Court,  but  they  may  establish 
as  many  inferior  courts  as  they  shall  think  proper.  The  designation 
made  of  them  by  the  Constitution  is,  such  inferior  courts  as  the 
Congress  may  from  time  to  time  ordain  and  establish.  But  why, 
say  gentlemen,  fix  precisely  one  Supreme  Court,  and  leave  the  rest 
to  Legislative  discretion?  The  answer  is  simple:  It  results  from  the 
nature  of  things  from  the  existent  and  probable  state  of  our  country. 
There  was  no  difficulty  in  deciding  that  one  and  only  one  Supreme 
Court  would  be  proper  or  necessary,  to  which  should  lie  appeals 
from  inferior  tribunals.  Not  so  as  to  these.  The  United  States 
were  advancing  in  rapid  progression.  Their  population  of  three 
millions  was  soon  to  become  five,  then  ten,  afterwards  twenty  mil- 
lions. This  was  well  known,  as  far  as  the  future  can  become  an 
object  of  human  comprehension.  In  this  increase  of  numbers, 
with  a  still  greater  increase  of  wealth,  with  the  extension  of  our 
commerce  and  the  progress  of  the  arts,  it  was  evident  that  although 
a  great  many  tribunals  would  become  necessary,  it  was  impossible 
to  determine  either  on  the  precise  number  or  the  most  convenient 
form.  The  Convention  did  not  pretend  to  this  prescience;  but  had 
they  possessed  it,  would  it  have  been  proper  to  have  established, 
then,  all  the  tribunals  necessary  for  all  future  times  .^  Would  it  have 
been  wise  to  have  planted  courts  among  the  Chickasaws,  the  Choc- 
taws,  the  Cherokees,  the  Tuscaroras,  and  God  knows  how  many 
more,  because  at  some  future  day  the  regions  over  which  they  roam 
might  be  cultivated  by  polished  men?  Was  it  not  proper,  wise,  and 
necessary,  to  leave  in  the  discretion  of  Congress  the  number  and  the 
kind  of  courts  which  they  might  find  it  proper  to  establish  for  the 
purpose  designated  by  the  Constitution?  This  simple  statement 
of  facts  —  facts  of  public  notoriety  —  is  alone  a  sufficient  comment 
on,  and  explanation  of,  the  word  on  which  gentlemen  have  so  much 
relied.  The  Convention  in  framing,  the  people  in  {adopting,  this 
compact,  say  the  judicial  power  shall  extend  to  many  cases,  the 
original  cognizance  whereof  shall  be  by  the  inferior  courts;  but  it 
is  neither  necessary,  nor  even  possible,  now  to  determine  their  num- 
ber or  their  form;  that  essential  power,  therefore,  shall  vest  in  such 
inferior  courts  as  the  Congress  may  from  time  to  time,  in  the  pro- 
gression of  time,  and  according  to  the  indication  of  circumstances, 
establish;  not  provide,  or  determine,  but  establish.  Not  a  mere 
temporary  provision,  but  an  establishment.  If,  after  this,  it  had 
said  in  general  terms,  that  judges  should  hold  their  offices  during 
good  behaviour,  could  a  doubt  have  existed  on  the  interpretation 


APPENDIX  A,    CCXCI  393 

of  this  act,  under  all  its  attending  circumstances,  that  the  judges 
of  the  inferior  courts  were  intended  as  well  as  those  of  the  Supreme 
Court?  But  did  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  stop  here?  Is  there 
then  nothing  more?  Did  they  risk  on  these  grammatical  niceties 
the  fate  of  America?  Did  they  rest  here  the  most  important  branch 
of  our  Government?  Little  important,  indeed,  as  to  foreign  danger; 
but  infinitely  valuable  to  our  domestic  peace,  and  to  personal  pro- 
tection against  the  oppression  of  our  rulers.  No;  lest  a  doubt 
should  be  raised,  they  have  carefully  connected  the  judges  of  both 
courts  in  the  same  sentence;  they  have  said,  'the  judges  both  of 
the  supreme  and  inferior  courts'  thus  coupling  them  inseparably 
together.  You  may  cut  the  bands,  but  you  can  never  untie  them. 
With  salutary  caution  they  devised  this  clause  to  arrest  the  over- 
bearing temper  which  they  knew  belonged  to  Legislative  bodies. 
They  do  not  say  the  judges,  simply,  but  the  judges  of  the  supreme 
and  inferior  courts  shall  hold  their  offices  during  good  behaviour.  They 
say,  therefore,  to  the  Legislature,  you  may  judge  of  the  propriety, 
the  utility,  the  necessity,  of  organizing  these  courts;  but  when  estab- 
lished, you  have  done  your  duty.  Anticipating  the  course  of  pas- 
sion in  future  times,  they  say  to  the  Legislature,  you  shall  not 
disgrace  yourselves  by  exhibiting  the  indecent  spectacle  of  judges 
established  by  one  Legislature  removed  by  another.  We  will  save 
you  also  from  yourselves.  We  say  these  judges  shall  hold  their 
offices;  and  surely,  sir,  to  pretend  that  they  can  hold  their  office 
after  the  office  is  destroyed,  is  contemptible. 

The  framers  of  this  Constitution  had  seen  much,  read  much, 
and  deeply  reflected.  They  knew  by  experience  the  violence  of 
popular  bodies,  and  let  it  be  remembered,  that  since  that  day  many 
of  the  States,  taught  by  experience,  have  found  it  necessary  to  change 
their  forms  of  government  to  avoid  the  effects  of  that  violence.  The 
Convention  contemplated  the  very  act  you  now  attempt.  They 
knew  also  the  jealousy  and  the  power  of  the  States;  and  they  estab- 
lished for  your  and  for  their  protection  this  most  important  depart- 
ment. I  beg  gentlemen  to  hear  and  remember  what  I  say:  It  is 
this  department  alone,  and  it  is  the  independence  of  this  depart- 
ment, which  can  save  you  from  civil  war. 


CCXCI.     GOUVERNEUR  MoRRIS   TO   THE    PRESIDENT   OF    THE    NeW 

York  Senate.^ 

Washington,  December  2Sth,  1802. 
When  this  article  was  under  consideration  in  the  National  Con- 


*  Jarcd  Sparks,  Life  of  Gowermur  Morris,  III,  174-175. 


394     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

vention  it  was  observed,  that  every  mode  of  electing  the  chief  magis- 
trate of  a  powerful  nation  hitherto  adopted  is  liable  to  objection. 
The  instances  where  violence  has  been  used,  and  murders  committed, 
are  numerous;  those,  in  which  artifice  and  fraud  have  succeeded 
against  the  general  wish  and  will,  are  innumerable.  And  hence  it 
was  inferred,  that  the  mode  least  favorable  to  intrigue  and  corrup- 
tion, that  in  which  the  unbiassed  voice  of  the  people  will  be  most 
attended  to,  and  that  which  is  least  likely  to  terminate  in  violence 
and  usurpation,  ought  to  be  adopted.  To  impress  conviction  on 
this  subject,  the  case  of  Poland  was  not  unaptly  cited.  Great  and 
ambitious  Princes  took  part  in  the  election  of  a  Polish  King.  Money, 
threats,  and  force  were  employed;  violence,  bloodshed,  and  oppres- 
sion ensued;  and  now  that  country  is  parcelled  out  among  the  neigh- 
boring Potentates,  one  of  whom  was  but  a  petty  Prince  two  centuries 
ago. 

The  evils,  which  have  been  felt  in  the  present  mode  of  election, 
were  pointed  out  to  the  Convention;  but,  after  due  advisement,  the 
other  mode  appeared  more  exceptionable.  Indeed,  if  the  present 
be  changed,  it  might  be  better  to  abolish  the  office  of  Vice  President, 
and  leave  to  legislative  provision  the  case  of  a  vacancy  in  the  seat 
of  the  first  magistrate. 

The  Convention  was  aware,  that  every  species  of  trick  and  con- 
trivance would  be  practised  by  the  ambitious  and  unprincipled.  It 
was,  therefore,  conceived,  that  if  in  elections  the  President  and  Vice 
President  were  distinctly  designated,  there  would  generally  be  a 
vote  given  for  one  of  only  two  rival  Presidents,  while  there  would 
be  numerous  candidates  for  the  other  office;  because  he,  who  wished 
to  become  President,  would  naturally  connect  himself  with  some 
popular  man  of  each  particular  district,  for  the  sake  of  his  local  influ- 
ence, so  that  the  Vice  Presidency  would  be  but  as  a  bait  to  catch 
state  gudgeons.  The  person  chosen  would  have  only  a  partial  vote, 
be  perhaps  unknown  to  the  greater  part  of  the  community,  and  prob- 
ably unfit  for  those  duties,  which  the  death  of  a  President  might  call 
on  him  to  perform. 

The  Convention  not  only  foresaw,  that  a  scene  might  take  place 
similar  to  that  of  the  last  presidential  election,  but  even  supposed 
it  not  impossible,  that  at  some  time  or  other  a  person  admirably 
fitted  for  the  office  of  President  might  have  an  equal  vote  with  one 
totally  unqualified,  and  that,  by  the  predominance  of  faction  in  the 
House  of  Representatives,  the  latter  might  be  preferred.  This, 
which  is  the  greatest  supposable  evil  of  the  present  mode,  was  calmly 
examined,  and  it  appeared  that,  however  prejudicial  it  might  be 
at  the  present  moment,  a  useful  lesson  would  result  from  it  for  the 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXCII  39S 

future,  to  teach  contending  parties  the  importance  of  giving  both 
votes  to  men  fit  for  the  first  office. 


CCXCII.   Alexander  Hamilton's  Proposals  in  the  Federal 

Convention.^ 

A  subsequent  misstatement  of  his  course  in  the  convention,  drew 
forth  a  voluntary  publication  from  Luther  Martin.  ^'That  Hamilton 
in  a  most  able  and  eloquent  address,  did  express  his  general  ideas 
upon  the  subject  of  government,  and  of  that  government  which  would 
in  all  human  probability  be  most  advantageous  for  the  United 
States,  I  admit;  but,  in  thus  expressing  his  sentiments,  he  did  not 
suggest  a  wish  that  any  one  officer  of  the  government  should  derive 
his  power  from  any  other  source  than  the  people;  that  there  should 
be  in  any  instance  an  hereditary  succession  to  office,  nor  that  any 
person  should  continue  longer  than  during  good  behaviour." 

Another  publication  appeared,  charging  him  with  having  pro- 
posed a  monarchy  to  the  convention.  This  was  denied,  and  it  was 
replied,  that  ^'he  proposed  a  system  composed  of  three  branches, 
an  assembly,  a  senate,  and  a  governor.  That  the  assembly  should 
be  elected  by  the  people  for  three  years,  and  that  the  senate  and 
governor  should  be  likewise  elected  by  the  people  during  good  be- 
haviour." 

In  answer  to  this  publication,  Hamilton  published  a  full  explana- 
tory view  of  the  propositions  made  by  him. 

"Thus  the  charge,"  he  said,  "is  at  length  reduced  to  specific 
terms.  Before  it  can  be  decided,  however,  whether  this  would  be 
a  monarchy  or  a  republicy  it  seems  necessary  to  settle  the  meaning 
of  those  terms.     .  .  . 

Were  we  to  attempt  a  correct  definition  of  a  republican  govern- 
ment, we  should  say,  'That  is  a  republican  government,  in  which 
both  the  executive  and  legislative  organs  are  appointed  by  a  popu- 
lar election,  and  hold  their  offices  upon  a  responsible  and  defeasible 
tenure.'  If  this  be  not  so,  then  the  tenure  of  good  behavior  for  the 
judicial  department  is  anti-republican,  and  the  government  of  this 
state  is  not  a  republic;  if  the  contrary,  then  a  government  would 
not  cease  to  be  republican  because  a  branch  of  the  legislature,  or 
even  the  executive,  held  their  offices  during  good  behaviour.  In 
this  case  the  two  essential  criteria  would  still  concur  —  the  creation 
of  the  officer  by  a  popular  election,  and  the  possibility  of  his  removal 
in  the  course  of  law,  by  accusation  before,  and  conviction  by,  a  com- 
petent tribunal. 

»  J.  C.  Hamilton,  History  of  the  Republic  of  the  United  States,  III,  341-343. 


396     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

How  far  it  may  be  expedient  to  go,  even  within  the  bounds  of 
the  theory,  in  framing  a  constitutioni  is  a  different  question,  upon 
which  we  pretend  not  to  give  our  opinion.  It  is  enough  for  the 
purpose  of  our  assertion,  if  it  be  in  principle  correct.  For  even  then, 
upon  the  statement  of  the  'citizen'  himself,  General  Hamilton  did 
not  propose  a  monarchy. 

Thus  much  too  we  will  add,  that  whether  General  Hamilton  at 
any  stage  of  the  deliberations  of  the  convention  did,  or  did  not  make 
the  proposition  ascribed  to  him,  it  is  certain  that  his  more  deliberate 
and  final  opinion,  adopted  a  moderate  term  of  years  for  the  duration 
of  the  office  of  president;  as  also  appears  by  a  plan  of  a  constitution, 
in  tariting  now  in  this  ciiy^  drawn  up  by  that  gentleman  in  detail. 

Whether  the  first  system  presented  by  Mr.  Hamilton,  was  the 
one  to  which  he  gave  a  decided  preference,  it  would  be  difficult  to 
say,  since  we  find  him  adopting  and  proposing  a  different  one  in  the 
course  of  the  sitting  of  the  convention.  It  may  have  been  that  his 
opinion  was  nearly  balanced  between  the  two;  nay,  it  is  possible 
he  may  have  really  preferred  the  one  last  proposed^  and  that  the  former, 
like  many  others,  was  brought  forward  to  make  it  the  subject  of 
discussion,  and  see  what  would  be  the  opinions  of  different  gentle- 
men on  so  momentous  a  subject.  And,  it  is  now  repeated  with  con- 
fidence, that  the  Virginia  delegation  did  vote  for  the  most  energetic 
form  of  government,  and  that  Mr.  Maddison  was  of  the  number. 
But  we  desire  to  be  distinctly  understood,  that  it  was  never  intended, 
by  mentioning  this  circumstance,  to  impeach  the  purity  of  Mr. 
Maddison's  motives.  To  arraign  the  morals  of  any  man,  because 
he  entertains  a  speculative  opinion  on  government  different  from 
ourselves,  is  worse  than  arrogance.  He  who  does  so,  must  enter- 
tain notions  in  ethics  extremely  crude,  and  certainly  unfavourable 
to  virtue."  


CCXCIII.    Oliver  Ellsworth  Wood  to  George  Bancroft.^ 

March  6th,  1880. 

Oliver  Ellsworth,  Jr.,  Judge  E*s  son,  was  his  private  secretary. 
In  a  manuscript  of  his,*  O.  E.  Jr.,  about  the  early  history  of  Windsor 
occurs  the  following: 

^'  He,  Judge  E.,  told  me  one  day  as  I  was  reading  a  Newspaper  to 
him  containing  Eulogiums  upon  the  late  General  Washington,  which 
among  other  things  ascribed  to  him  the  founding  of  the  American 
Government  to  which  Judge  Ellsworth  objected,  saying  President 

» Bancroft  MS.,  "Papers  of  Ellsworth,"  in  Lenox  Library,  New  York  City. 
'  Stiles'  Hutory  of  Ancient  Windsor^  Vol.  I,  pp.  142-143,  refers  to  the  MS.  of 
Oliver  Ellsworth,  Jr.,  as  "written  in  1802." 


APPENDIX  A,    CCXCIV  397 

Washington's  influence  while  in  the  Convention  was  not  very  great, 
at  least  not  much  as  to  the  forming  of  the  present  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  in  1787,  which  Judge  Ellsworth  said  was  drawn 
by  himself  and  five  others,  viz  —  General  Alexander  Hamilton, 
Gorham  of  Mass,  deceased,  James  Wilson  of  Pennsylvania,  Rut- 
ledge  of  South  Carolina  and  Madison  of  Virginia. " 


CCXCIV.   Timothy  Pickering  to  Alexander  Hamilton.^ 

Salem  Massachusetts  April  5th.  1803 
The  assertion  of  the  Jacobins,  that  you  are  an  aristocrat  and  a 
Monarchist,  is  not  new:  But  at  a  late  meeting  of  the  sect  in  this 
town,  one  of  their  leaders  declared  "That  Genl.  Hamilton  proposed 
(and  it  was  understood,  advocated)  in  the  General  Convention,  that 
the  President  of  the  United  States,  and  the  Senators,  should  be  chosen 
for  life:  that  this  was  intended  as  an  introduction  to  Monarchy: 
And  that  the  Federalists  of  this  county  (Essex)  had  adopted  Genl 
Hamiltons  plan."  Your  friends  here  (who  are  the  real  friends  of 
their  country)  are  very  desirous  of  knowing  the  fact  —  If  you  did 
not  make  and  advocate  that  proposition,  it  will  be  useful  to  have  it 
known  and  the  Jacobin  lie  contradicted:  If  the  proposition  was 
offered  in  the  Convention,  your  friends  will  know  to  what  motives 
to  ascribe  it;  and  that,  whatever  form  of  Government  you  may  have 
suggested  for  consideration,  the  public  welfare,  and  the  permanent 
liberty  of  your  Country  were  not  less  the  objects  of  pursuit  with  you, 
than  with  the  other  members  of  the  Convention.  Your  answer  will 
gratify  me  and  your  numerous  friends  here.*  Such  use  only  shall 
be  made  of  it  as  you  shall  prescribe  — 


CCXCV.   Alexander  Hamilton  to  Timothy  Pickering.* 

New  York  Septr.  1 6th.  1803 
I  will  make  no  apology  for  my  delay  in  answering  your  inquiry 
some  time  since  made,^  because  I  could  offer  none  which  would 
satisfy  myself.  I  pray  you  only  to  believe  that  it  proceeded  from 
any  thing  rather  than  want  of  respect  or  regard.  I  shall  now  comply 
with  your  request  —  The  highest  toned  propositions,  which  I  made 
in  the  Convention,  were  for  a  President,  Senate  and  Judges  during 
good  behaviour  —  a  house  of  representatives  for  three  years.  Though 
I  would  have  enlarged  the  Legislative  power  of  the  General  Govern- 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  268-^69. 

*  For  Hamilton's  reply  sec  CCXCV  below. 

'  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  284-286. 

*  Sec  CCXCIV  above. 


398     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

menty  yet  I  never  contemplated  the  abolition  of  the  state  Gov- 
ernments; but  on  the  contrary,  they  were,  in  some  particulars, 
constituent  parts  of  my  plan — This  plan  was  in  my  conception  con- 
formable with  the  strict  theory  of  a  Government  purely  republican; 
the  essential  criteria  of  which  are  that  the  principal  organs  of  the 
Executive  and  Legislative  departments  be  elected  by  the  people 
and  hold  their  offices  by  a  responsible  and  temporary  or  defeasible 
tenure  —  A  vote  was  taken  on  the  proposition  respecting  the  Execu- 
tive—  Five  states  were  in  favour  of  it;  among  these  Virginia; 
and  though  from  the  manner  of  voting,  by  delegations,  individuals 
were  not  distinguished,  it  was  morally  certain,  from  the  known 
situation  of  the  Virginia  members  (six  in  number,  two  of  them 
Mason  and  Randolph  professing  popular  doctrines)  that  Madison 
must  have  concurred  in  the  vote  of  Virginia  —  Thus,  if  I  sinned 
against  Republicanism^  Mr.  Madison  was  not  less  guilty  —  I  may 
truly  then  say,  that  I  never  proposed  either  a  President,  or  Senate 
for  life,  and  that  I  neither  recommended  nor  meditated  the  annihila- 
tion of  the  State  Governments  —  And  I  may  add,  that  in  the  course 
of  the  discussions  in  the  Convention,  neither  the  propositions  thrown 
out  for  debate,  nor  even  those  voted  in  the  earlier  stages  of  delibera- 
tion were  considered  as  evidences  of  a  definitive  opinion  in  the  pro- 
poser or  voter.  It  appeared  to  me  to  be  in  some  sort  understood,  that 
with  a  view  to  free  investigation,  experimental  propositions  might  be 
made,  which  were  to  be  received  merely  as  suggestions  for  considera- 
tion —  Accordingly,  it  is  a  fact,  that  my  final  opinion  was  against  an 
Executive  during  good  behaviour,  on  account  of  the  increased  danger 
to  the  public  tranquilly  incident  to  the  election  of  a  Magistrate  of 
this  degree  of  permanency.  In  the  plan  of  a  Constitution,  which  I 
drew  up  while  the  convention  was  sitting,  and  which  I  communicated 
to  Mr  Madison  about  the  close  of  it,  perhaps  a  day  or  two  after,  the 
office  of  President  has  no  greater  duration  than  for  three  years  — 
This  plan  was  predicated  upon  these  bases  —  i.  That  the  political 
principles  of  the  people  of  this  country  would  endure  nothing  but 
republican  government  —  2.  That  in  the  actual  situation  of  the  coun- 
try, it  was  in  itself  right  and  proper  that  the  republican  theory  should 
have  a  fair  and  full  trial  —  3.  That  to  such  a  trial  it  was  essential 
that  the  Government  should  be  so  constructed  as  to  give  all  the  energy 
and  stability  reconcileable  with  the  principles  of  that  theory.  These 
were  the  genuine  sentiments  of  my  heart,  and  upon  them  I  acted. 
I  sincerely  hope,  that  it  may  not  hereafter  be  discovered,  that  through 
want  of  sufficient  attention  to  the  last  idea,  the  experiment  of  Re- 
publican Government,  even  in  this  country,  has  not  been  as  com- 
plete, as  satisfactory  and  as  decisive  as  could  be  wished  — 


APPENDIX  A,   CCXCVI  399 

CCXCVI.   Timothy  Pickering  to  General  Hamilton.^ 

City  of  Washington  Oct.  18.  1803 
I  duly  received  your  letter  of  Septr.  i6th.  relative  to  the  propo- 
sitions you  made  in  the  General  Convention.'  It  was  obvious,  that 
those,  with  the  propositions  of  others,  were  presented  for  considera- 
tion and  discussion,  to  be  adopted  or  rejected,  as  a  sense  of  the  public 
safety  should  require;  and  by  no  means  as  the  definitive  opinions 
of  the  movers. 

Dining  in  company  with  General  Pinckney,  as  he  passed  thro' 
Salem,  in  September,  I  was  asked,  by  one  of  the  guests,  some  question 
concerning  the  nature  of  the  propositions  you  made  in  the  General 
Convention.  I  referred  the  enquirer  to  the  General,  who  was  a 
member.  —  He  answered.  That  you  proposed,  that  the  Governors 
of  the  several  states  should  be  appointed  by  the  President  of  the  U 
States:  But  that  Mr.  Madison  moved,  and  was  seconded  by  his 
cousin  Charles  Pinckney,  That  all  the  laws  of  the  individual  states 
should  be  subject  to  the  negative  of  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  U. 
States.  The  General  added.  That  he  did  not  know  which  would 
be  deemed  the  strongest  measure. 


CCXCVII.   Jonathan  Dayton  in  the  United  States  Senate.* 

October  24,  1803. 
Mr.  Dayton  .  .  .  said  the  great  inducements  of  the  framers 
of  the  Constitution  to  admit  the  office  of  Vice  President  was,  that, 
by  the  mode  of  choice,  the  best  and  most  respectable  man  should 
be  designated;  and  that  the  Electors  of  each  State  should  vote  for 
one  person  at  least,  living  in  a  different  State  from  themselves. 


CCXCVIII.   RuFus  King  to  Colonel  Pickering  [?].* 

New  York,  Nov.  4,  1803. 
Congress  may  admit  new  States,  but  can  the  Executive  by  treaty 
admit  them,  or,  what  is  equivalent,  enter  into  engagements  binding 
Congress  to  do  so?  As  by  the  Louisiana  Treaty,  the  ceded  territory 
must  be  formed  into  States,  &  admitted  into  the  Union,  is  it  understood 
that  Congress  can  annex  any  condition  to  their  admission?  if  not, 
as  Slavery  is  authorized  &  exists  in  Louisiana,  and  the  treaty  engages 
to  protect  the  property  of  the  inhabitants,  will  not  the  present 
inequality,  arising  from  the  Representation  of  Slaves,  be  increased? 

*  Documentary  History  of  ike  Constitution,  V,  288-289. 

*  See  above  CCXCV. 

'  Annals  of  Congress,  Eighth  Congress,  First  Session,  p.  21. 

*  C.  R.  King,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King,  IV,  324-325. 


400     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

As  the  provision  of  the  Constitution  on  this  subject  may  be  re- 
garded as  one  of  its  greatest  blemishes,  it  would  be  with  reluctance 
that  one  could  consent  to  its  being  extended  to  the  Louisiana  States; 
and  provided  any  act  of  Congress  or  of  the  several  states  should  be 
deemed  requisite  to  give  validity  to  the  stipulation  of  the  treaty 
on  this  subject,  ought  not  an  effort  to  be  made  to  limit  the  Repre- 
sentation to  the  free  inhabitants  only?  Had  it  been  foreseen  that  we 
could  raise  revenue  to  the  extent  we  have  done,  from  indirect  taxes, 
the  Representation  of  Slaves  wd.  never  have  been  admitted;  but 
going  upon  the  maxim  that  taxation  and  Representation  are  insepa- 
rable, and  that  the  Genl.  Govt,  must  resort  to  direct  taxes,  the  States 
in  which  Slavery  does  not  exist,  were  injudiciously  led  to  concede  to 
this  unreasonable  provision  of  the  Constitution. 

CCXCIX.    Pierce  Butler  in  the  United  States  Senate.* 

November,  23,  1803. 
It  never  was  intended  by  the  Constitution  that  the  Vice  Presi- 
dent should  have  a  vote  in  altering  the  Constitution. 


CCC.    Jonathan  Dayton  in  the  United  States  Senate.* 

November  24,  1803. 
Mr.  Dayton  believed  it  would  come  to  this,  that  when  the  ques- 
tion came  to  be  discussed,  and  the  rights  of  the  small  States  main- 
tained, the  large  States  would  threaten  us  with  their  power.  The 
same  threats  had  been  heard  in  the  old  Congress,  but  they  were 
laughed  at,  for  the  votes  of  the  States  were  equal;  they  were  heard 
in  the  Convention,  but  they  were  spurned  at,  for  the  votes  were 
equal  there  also;  the  large  States  must  be  cautious  here,  for  in  this 
body,  too,  the  votes  are  equal.  The  gentleman  had  talked  of  a 
classification  of  States  as  a  novelty,  but  he  would  ask  if  that  gentle- 
man pretended  to  be  wiser  than  the  Constitution?  Look  through 
that  instrument  from  beginning  to  end,  and  you  will  not  find  an  article 
which  is  not  founded  on  the  presumption  of  a  clashing  of  interests. 
Was  this  fine  process  instituted  for  nothing?  Was  developing  the 
election  in  particular  circumstances  in  the  House  of  Representatives 
intended  for  nothing?  Was  nothing  meant  by  the  provision  of  the 
Constitution,  that  no  amendment  should  ever  deprive  the  States  of 
the  equality  of  votes  in  this  House?  Yet,  it  was  that  jealous  caution 
which  foresaw  the  necessity  of  guarding  against  the  encroachments 
of  large  States.    The  States,  whatever  was  their  relative  magnitude, 

^  AnnaU  f>f  Congress^  Eighth  Congress,  First  Session,  82. 

'  Annals  of  Congnss,  Eighth  Congress,  First  Session,  loo-ioi. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCI  4OI 

were  equal  under  the  old  Confederation^  and  the  small  States  gave 
up  a  part  of  their  rights  as  a  compromise  for  a  better  form  of  govern- 
ment and  security;  but  they  cautiously  preserved  their  equal  rights 
in  the  Senate  and  in  the  choice  of  a  Chief  Magistrate.  The  same 
voice  that  now  addresses  you  made  the  solemn  claim,  and  declared 
there  was  no  safety  in  association  unless  the  small  States  were  pro- 
tected here.  The  warning  was  taken  and  you  find  in  that  part,  as 
in  all  others,  a  classification  governs  every  line  of  the  Constitution. 


CCCI.    GouvERNEUR  MoRRis  TO  Henry  W.  Livingston.* 

Morrisania,  November  25th,  1803. 

It  is  not  possible  for  me  to  recollect  with  precision  all  that  passed 
in  the  Convention,  while  we  were  framing  the  Constitution;  and  if 
I  could,  it  is  most  probable,  that  a  meaning  may  have  been  conceived 
from  incidental  expressions,  different  from  that  which  they  were 
intended  to  convey,  and  very  different  from  the  fixed  opinions  of  the 
speaker.    This  happens  daily. 

I  am  very  certain  that  I  had  it  not  in  contemplation  to  insert  a 
decree  de  coercendo  imperio  in  the  Constitution  of  America.  With- 
out examining  whether  a  limitation  of  territory  be  or  be  not  essen- 
tial to  the  preservation  of  republican  government,  I  am  certain  that 
the  country  between  the  Mississippi  and  the  Atlantic  exceeds  by  far 
the  limits,  which  prudence  would  assign,  if  in  effect  any  limitation 
be  required.  Another  reason  of  equal  weight  must  have  prevented 
me  from  thinking  of  such  a  clause.  I  knew  as  well  then,  as  I  do  now, 
that  all  North  America  must  at  length  be  annexed  to  us.  Happy, 
indeed,  if  the  lust  of  dominion  stop  there.  It  would,  therefore,  have 
been  perfectly  Utopian  to  oppose  a  paper  restriction  to  the  violence 
of  popular  sentiment  in  a  popular  government.' 

CCCII.    Jonathan  Dayton  in  the  United  States  Senate.' 

November  29,  1803. 
Every  member  who  had  spoken  on  this  subject  seemed  to  have 
admitted,  by  the  very  course  and  pointing  of  their  arguments,  even 
though  they  may  have  denied  it  in  words,  that  this  was  really  a 
question  between  great  and  small  States,  and  disguise  it  as  they 
would  the  question  would  be  so  considered  out  of  doors.  The  privi- 
lege given  by  the  Constitution  extended  to  five,  out  of  which  the 
choice  of  President  should  be  made;  and  why  should  the  smaller, 

*  Jared  Sparks,  Life  of  Gowterneur  Morris^  III,  185. 

•  Sec  CCCIV  below. 

'  Annals  of  Congress,  Eighth  Congress,  First  Session,  109. 


402      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

for  whose  benefit  and  security  that  number  was  given,  now  wantonly 
throw  it  away  without  an  equivalent?  As  to  the  Vice  President,  his 
election  had  no  influence  upon  the  number,  because  the  choice  of 
President  in  the  House  of  Representatives  was  as  free  and  unqualified 
as  if  that  subordinate  office  did  not  exist.  Nay,  he  said,  he  would 
venture  to  assert  that,  even  if  the  number  five  were  continued,  and 
the  Vice  Presidency  entirely  abolished,  there  would  not  be  as  great 
a  latitude  of  choice  as  under  the  present  mode,  because  those  five 
out  of  whom  the  choice  must  eventually  be  made,  were  much  more 
likely  hereafter  to  be  nominated  by  the  great  States,  inasmuch  as 
their  electors  would  no  longer  be  compelled  to  vote  for  a  man  of  a 
different  State.  The  honorable  gentleman  from  Maryland  (Mr. 
Smith)  has  said,  he  was  not  surprised  that  those  who  had  seats  in 
the  old  Congress,  should  perplex  themselves  with  the  distinctions; 
but  he  could  tell  that  gentleman,  that  it  was  not  in  the  old  Congress 
he  had  learnt  them,  for  there  he  had  seen  all  the  votes  of  the  States 
equal,  and  had  known  the  comparatively  little  State  of  Maryland 
controlling  the  will  of  the  Ancient  Dominion.  It  was  in  the  Federal 
Convention  that  distinction  was  made  and  acknowledged;  and  he 
defied  that  member  to  do,  what  had  been  before  requested  of  the 
honorable  gentleman  from  Virginia,  viz:  to  open  the  Constitution, 
and  point  out  a  single  article,  if  he  could,  that  had  not  evidently 
been  framed  upon  a  presumption  of  diversity  (he  had  almost  said, 
adversity)  of  interest  between  the  great  and  small  States. 


CCCIII.    Debate  in  the  UnrrED  States  Senate.^ 

December  2,  1803. 
Mr.  Dayton  •  •  .  Although,  however,  no  arguments  can  avail  to 
prevent  the  adoption  of  an  amendment  of  the  Constitution  so  fatal 
to  the  interests  of  a  great  portion  of  the  community,  yet,  as  a  mem- 
ber of  one  of  the  small  States,  I  claim  a  right  to  mourn  over  our 
fallen  honors  and  dignity,  and  as  a  Representative  from  New  Jersey,  I 
deem  it  my  duty  to  enter  my  solemn  protest  against  the  injury  done  to 
our  interests  and  our  sovereignty.  But  a  few  years  ago  we  were  equal 
in  votes  and  influence,  though  inferior  in  size  and  population,  to  the 
largest  States.  We  consented  to  give  up  a  certain  portion  of  that 
influence  for  the  general  good,  expressly  retaining  the  other  portion 
for  our  own  protection  and  security.  This  instrument,  the  Con- 
stitution, which  we  have  sworn  to  support,  and  are  now  about  to 
deface,  is  the  new  compact  which  that  temper  produced.     It  is  the 

^  Annals  of  Congress^  Eighth  Congress,  First  Session,  193-208. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCIII  403 

great  plan  of  compromise  between  the  jarring  and  contending  inter- 
ests of  the  great  and  small  States.     .  •  • 

Through  the  whole  course  of  this  discussion  great  art  has  been 
used  by  some  of  the  most  zealous  advocates  of  the  measure,  to  divert 
us  from  the  real  ground  of  distinction  upon  which  it  rests,  and  to 
lull  into  a  fatal  repose  the  jealousies  of  the  small  States  for  their 
rights  and  sovereignty.  A  remark  of  the  honorable  gentleman 
from  Maryland  (Mr.  Smith)  tending  to  that  object,  ought  not  to 
escape  animadversion.  He  averred  that  no  law  could  be  found 
in  our  statute  book  that  was  produced  by  a  combination  of  States, 
and  hence  inferred  that  no  such  combination  ought  to  be  appre- 
hended. The  fact  admitted,  said  Mr.  D.,  and  what  does  it  prove? 
Not  what  the  gentleman  from  Maryland  would  infer;  not  what  he 
ought  to  prove,  before  the  assertion  and  the  argument  can  be  worth 
anything  to  him  on  this  occasion;  not  that  such  combination  may 
not  be  feared  if  you  alter  the  Constitution,  but  that  it  is  impractic- 
able as  it  now  stands.  The  refined  process  established  for  electing 
a  President  was  calculated  to  guard  against  that  very  danger,  but 
if  altered  and  destroyed,  we  shall  soon  be  subject  to  that  evil.  Why 
is  it,  sir,  that  none  of  our  laws  are  the  result  of  any  combination  of 
States?  The  reason  is  to  be  found  in  the  checks  provided  against 
it  in  the  Constitution.  Any  project  founded  upon  a  coalition  of 
the  small  states,  originating  as  it  must  in  the  Senate,  would  be 
checked  in  the  House  of  Representatives;  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
any  one  resulting  from  any  concert  among  the  great  States  in  the 
other  branch,  would  and  must  be  defeated  in  this.  But  if  these 
wholesome  checks  could  be  done  away,  where  could  be  found  a 
security  against  so  great  a  temptation?  I  thank  God  that  the  Con- 
vention were  so  enlightened  as  to  place  the  equality  of  States  in  the 
Senate  beyond  the  reach  of  amendment.     .  •  . 

Mr.  Pickering  .  •  .  believed  that  one  of  the  most  embarrassing 
questions  before  the  General  Convention,  respected  the  choice  of 
the  chief  Executive  officer.  He  had  been  informed  by  a  member 
of  that  convention,  the  gentleman  from  Georgia  on  his  left,  (Mr. 
Baldwin),  that  it  had  been  proposed  and  concluded  that  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States  should  be  elected  by  Congress  for  seven 
years,  and  be  ever  after  ineligible  to  that  ofiice;  but  that  late  in  their 
session  the  present  complex  mode  of  electing  the  President  and  Vice 
President  was  proposed;  that  the  mode  was  perfectly  novel,  and 
therefore  occasioned  a  pause;  but  when  explained  and  fully  con- 
sidered was  universally  admired,  and  viewed  as  the  most  pleasing 
feature  in  the  Constitution.  .  •  . 
Mr.  Butler  .  .  .  Whatever  may  be  the  sentiments  or  wishes  of  the 


404     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

individuals  who  vote,  he  could  take  upon  him  to  say  what  was  the 
intention  of  the  Constitution;  the  framers  of  that  instrument  were 
apprehensive  of  an  elective  Chief  Magistrate;  and  their  views  were 
directed  to  prevent  the  putting  up  of  any  powerful  man;  that  for 
this  end  the  States  should  choose  two,  and  that  as  public  suffrage 
would  be  common  to  both,  that  either  would  be  alike  eligible,  and 
as  it  was  totally  immaterial  which  —  he  feared  that  the  election  of 
a  single  individual  might  exhibit  all  the  evils  which  afflicted  Poland. 
...  He  thought  that  after  a  contention  of  seven  years,  with  a 
party  who  he  had  thought  abused  their  power,  the  time  was  come 
when  a  better  course  would  have  been  pursued;  he  had  conceived 
that  principles  would  have  prevailed,  and  that  men  would  not  absorb 
every  consideration;  but,  with  a  member  of  the  Convention,  he 
would  say,  I  hoped  after  so  long  a  course  of  pork  that  our  diet  would 
be  changed,  but  I  find  it  is  pork  still  with  only  a  change  of  sauce. 


CCCIV.   GouvERNEUR  MoRRis  TO  Henry  W.  Livingston.* 

Morrisania,  December  4th,  1803. 

A  circumstance,  which  turned  up  in  conversation  yesterday, 
has  led  me  again  to  read  over  your  letter  of  the  third  of  November, 
and  my  answer  of  the  twenty-eighth.'  I  perceive  now,  that  I  mis- 
took the  drift  of  your  inquiry,  which  is  substantially  whether  the 
Congress  can  admit,  as  a  new  State,  territory,  which  did  not  belong 
to  the  United  States  when  the  Constitution  was  made.  In  my 
opinion  they  cannot. 

I  always  thought  that,  when  we  should  acquire  Canada  and 
Louisiana  it  would  be  proper  to  govern  them  as  provinces,  and  allow 
them  no  voice  in  our  councils.  In  wording  the  third  section  of  the 
fourth  article,  I  went  as  far  as  circumstances  would  permit  to  estab- 
lish the  exclusion.  Candor  obliges  me  to  add  my  belief,  that,  had 
it  been  more  pointedly  expressed,  a  strong  opposition  would  have 
been  made.  

CCCV.    GouvERNEUR  MoRRis  TO  Lewis  R.  Morris.' 

Morrisania,  December  loth,  1803. 

That  if,  in  the  new  legislature,  as  in  the  old  Congress,  each  had 

been  equally  represented,  and  each  preserved  an  equal  vote,  the 

sacrifice  of  rights  would  have  been  equal.     But  when  it  was  admitted, 

that,  in  the  National  Legislature,  the  Representatives  should  be 

*  Jared  Sparks,  Life  of  Gouoemeur  Morris,  III,  192. 
»  Sec  CCCI  above. 

•  Jared  Sparks,  Life  of  Gcwemeur  Morris,  III,  193-194. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCV  405 

appointed  according  to  the  number  of  citizens,  the  sacrifice  of  rights 
was  great,  in  proportion  as  the  States  were  small.  Thus  Delaware, 
which  had  but  one  Representative  out  of  sixty-five,  retained  only 
one  sixty-fifth  part  of  the  nation's  authority;  and  Virginia,  which 
had  ten  Representatives,  obtained  two  thirteenths.  Wherefore, 
since  each  had  previously  enjoyed  one  thirteenth,  Delaware  lost 
four  fifths  of  its  power,  and  that  of  Virginia  was  doubled,  so  that 
Delaware,  compared  to  Virginia,  was  reduced  under  the  new  estab- 
lishment from  equality  to  one  tenth.  It  was  moreover  evident, 
that  the  course  of  population  would  daily  increase  this  decided 
superiority  of  the  great  States.  That,  of  course,  if  the  whole  power 
of  the  union  had  been  expressly  vested  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives, the  smaller  States  would  never  have  adopted  the  Constitution. 
But  in  the  Senate  they  retained  an  equal  representation,  and  to  the 
Senate  was  given  a  considerable  share  of  those  powers  exercised  by 
the  old  Congress.  One  important  point,  however,  that  of  making 
war,  was  divided  between  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives. 

That  the  legislative  authority,  being  thus  disposed  of,  in  a  man- 
ner which  appeared  reasonable,  care  was  taken  to  preserve  to  the 
Senate  a  feeble  share  of  the  ancient  executive  power  of  Congress,  by 
their  negative  on  their  appointments  to  ofl[ice. 

That  it  was,  however,  certain  the  President  and  Vice  President 
would  be  taken  from  the  larger  States,  unless  the  smaller  had  some 
proportion  of  their  original  right  preserved,  and  therefore  the  number 
of  electors  is  compounded  of  the  number  of  Senators,  who  represent 
States,  and  of  the  number  of  members  who  represent  the  people. 
Still,  however,  the  chance  was,  from  the  superiority  of  numbers,  so 
greatly  in  favor  of  the  large  States,  that  a  farther  right  was  reserved 
to  the  smaller  ones  by  the  particular  mode  of  election.  The  neces- 
sity of  voting  for  two  persons  as  President,  one  of  whom  should  not 
be  of  the  State  voting,  and  the  right  of  choosing  a  President  out  of 
the  five  highest  on  the  list,  where  no  absolute  choice  was  made  by 
the  electors,  is  perhaps  the  most  valuable  provision  in  favor  of  the 
small  States,  which  can  be  found  in  the  Constitution.  By  the  former, 
the  chance  of  an  absolute  choice  is  greatly  diminished,  and  by  the 
latter,  the  decision  among  five  candidates  is  preserved  to  the  States 
in  their  political  capacity.  It  will,  of  course,  under  such  circum- 
stances, be  always  in  the  power  of  the  smaller  States  to  judge  of  the 
personal  character  of  the  parties  presented  for  choice,  and  though 
natives  and  citizens  of  large  States,  one  of  them  may  possess  such 
attachment  to  the  country  at  large,  and  such  a  sense  of  justice,  that 
from  his  administration  there  would  be  no  danger  of  encroachment 
on  their  political  rights. 


406  RECORDS   OF  THE   FEDERAL   CONVENTION 

CCCVI.   Trial  of  Impeachment  of  Judge  Chase  before  the 

United  States  Senate.^ 

February  23,  1804. 

Luther  Martin,  [attorney  for  the  defence]:  .  .  .  We  have 
been  told  by  an  honorable  Manager,  (Mr.  Campbell,)  that  the 
power  of  trying  impeachments  was  lodged  in  the  Senate  with 
the  most  perfect  propriety;  for  two  reasons  —  the  one,  that 
the  person  impeached  would  be  tried  before  those  who  had  given 
their  approbation  to  his  appointment  to  office.  This  certainly  was 
not  the  reason  by  which  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  were  influ- 
enced, when  they  gave  this  power  to  the  Senate.  Who  are  the  officers 
liable  to  impeachment?  The  President,  the  Vice  President,  and  all 
civil  officers  of  Government.  In  the  election  of  the  two  first,  the 
Senate  have  no  control,  either  as  to  nomination  or  approbation.  As 
to  other  civil  officers,  who  hold  their  appointments  during  good 
behavior,  it  is  extremely  probable  that,  though  they  were  approved 
by  one  Senate,  yet  from  lapse  of  time,  and  the  fluctuations  of  that 
body,  an  officer  may  be  impeached  before  a  Senate,  not  one  of  whom 
had  sanctioned  his  appointment,  not  one  of  whom,  perhaps,  had  he 
been  nominated  after  their  election,  would  have  given  him  their 
sanction. 

This,  then,  could  not  have  been  one  of  the  reasons  for  thus 
placing  the  power  over  these  officers.  But  as  a  second  reason,  he 
assigned,  that,  if  any  other  inferior  tribunal  had  been  entrusted  with 
the  trial  of  impeachments,  the  members  might  have  an  interest  in 
the  conviction  of  an  officer,  thereby  to  have  him  removed  in  order 
to  obtain  his  place;  but,  that  no  Senator  could  have  such  induce- 
ment.   •  •  • 

I  see  two  honorable  members  of  this  Court,  (Messrs.  Dayton 
and  Baldwin,)  who  were  with  me  in  Convention,  in  1787,  who  as 
well  as  myself,  perfectly  knew  why  this  power  was  invested  in  the 
Senate.  It  was  because,  among  all  our  speculative  systems,  it  was 
thought  this  power  could  no  where  be  more  properly  placed,  or 
where  it  would  be  less  likely  to  be  abused.  A  sentiment,  sir,  in  which 
I  perfectly  concurred,  and  I  have  no  doubt  but  the  event  of  this 
trial  will  show  that  we  could  not  have  better  disposed  of  that  power. 

.  .  .  Will  it  be  pretended,  for  I  have  heard  such  a  suggestion, 
that  the  House  of  Representatives  have  a  right  to  impeach  ^tvf7  citizen 
indiscriminately i  For  what  shall  they  impeach  them?  For  any 
criminal  act?  Is  the  House  of  Representatives,  then,  to  constitute 
a  grand  jury  to  receive  information  of  a  criminal  nature  against  all 

^  Annals  of  Congress,  Eighth  Congress,  Second  Session,  429-432,  436,  501-502. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCVI  407 

our  citizens,  and  thereby  to  deprioe  them  of  a  trial  by  jury  I  This  was 
never  intended  by  the  Constitution? 

The  President,  Vice  President,  and  other  civil  officers,  can  only 
be  impeached.  They  only  in  that  case  are  deprived  of  a  trial  by 
jury;  they,  when  they  accept  their  offices,  accept  them  on  those 
terms,  and,  as  far  as  relates  to  the  tenure  of  their  offices,  relinquish 
that  privilege;  they,  therefore,  cannot  complain.  Here,  it  appears 
to  me,  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  have  so  expressed  themselves 
as  to  leave  not  a  single  doubt  on  this  subject. 

In  the  first  article,  section  the  third,  of  the  Constitution,  it  is 
declared  that,  judgment  in  all  cases  of  impeachment,  shall  not  extend 
further  than  removal  from  office,  and  disqualification  to  hold  any 
office  of  honor,  trust,  or  profit,  under  the  United  States.  This 
clearly  evinces,  that  no  persons  but  those  who  hold  offices  are  liable 
to  impeachment.  They  are  to  lose  their  offices;  and,  having  mis- 
behaved themselves  in  such  manner  as  to  lose  their  offices,  are,  with 
propriety,  to  be  rendered  ineligible  thereafter.     .  .  . 

The  truth  is,  the  framers  of  the  Constitution,  for  many  reasons, 
which  influenced  them,  did  not  think  proper  to  place  the  officers 
of  Government  in  the  power  of  the  two  branches  of  the  Legislature, 
further  than  the  tenure  of  their  office.  Nor  did  they  choose  to  per- 
mit the  tenure  of  their  offices  to  depend  upon  the  passions  or  preju- 
dices of  jurors.  The  very  clause  in  the  Constitution,  of  itself,  shows 
that  it  was  intended  the  persons  impeached  and  removed  from  office 
might  still  be  indicted  and  punished  for  the  same  offence,  else  the 
provision  would  have  been  not  only  nugatory,  but  a  reflection  on 
the  enlightened  body  who  framed  the  Constitution;  since  no  per- 
son ever  could  have  dreamed  that  a  conviction  on  impeachment 
and  a  removal  from  office,  in  consequence,  for  one  offence,  could 
prevent  the  same  person  from  being  indicted  and  punished  for  an- 
other and  different  offence.     .  .  . 

I  again  repeat,  that  as  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  did  not  insert  in  their  Constitution  such  a  clause  as 
is  inserted  in  the  constitution  of  Pennsylvania,  it  is  the  strongest 
proof  that  they  did  not  mean  a  judge  or  other  officer  should  be  dis- 
placed by  an  address  of  any  portion  of  the  Legislature,  but  only 
according  to  the  Constitutional  provisions.       .  .  . 

February  25,  [1804.] 

Before  I  conclude,  let  me  add  one  other  proof  that  the  framers 
of  the  Constitution  never  intended  that  juries  should  have  any  power 
to  decide  the  law  contrary  to  the  instructions  of  the  court,  much 
less  to  decide  upon  the  constitutionality  of  a  law.  By  the  2d  section 
of  the  3d  article  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  it  is  pro- 


408      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

vided,  that  in  all  cases  to  which  the  judicial  power  applies,  except 
cases  affecting  Ambassadors,  other  public  Ministers  and  Consuls, 
and  those  in  which  a  State  is  a  party,  "the  Supreme  Court  shall 
have  *  appellate  jurisdiction^  both  as  to  law  and  fact,  with  such  excep- 
tions and  under  such  regulations  as  Congress  shall  make.'" 

Thus,  therefore,  it  is  in  the  power  of  Congress  to  authorize,  in 
all  such  cases,  an  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court,  even  as  to  the  facty 
from  the  verdict  of  a  jury^  and  empower  the  Supreme  Court  to  con- 
trol the  jury  if  they  appear  to  have  erred.  And  such  was  the  inten- 
tion of  the  framers  of  the  Constitution. 

They  assumed  as  a  principle,  that  the  interests  of  the  State 
governments  and  of  the  General  Government  would  often  be  at 
variance;  that  laws  passed  by  the  United  States,  the  most  wise  and 
salutary,  might  be  very  obnoxious  to  and  unpopular  in,  some  of  the 
states;  judges  holding  their  commissions  under  the  respective  States, 
that  is,  the  State  judges,  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  would  not, 
therefore,  entrust  with  the  execution  of  the  laws  of  the  United  States. 
They  also  considered  that,  as  far  as  juries  were  introduced,  the  jurors 
would  be  citizens  of  the  respective  States  wherein  the  trials  should 
be  had,  that  they  would,  in  consequence,  probably  partake  of  the 
interests,  the  prejudices,  and  the  passions  prevailing  in  the  State, 
and  therefore  might  decide  contrary  to  the  direction  of  the  judges 
appointed  by  the  United  States,  and  thereby  prevent  the  due  execu- 
tion of  their  laws.  To  obviate  this,  the  Constitution  has  a  pro- 
vision for  an  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court,  even  from  the  verdict 
of  such  a  jury.  Judge  then  whether  the  framers  of  the  Constitu- 
tion ever  contemplated  giving  power  to  counsel  to  argue  to  jurors 
against  the  opinions  of  their  judges^  or  juries  to  decide  against  such 
opinions.  

CCCVII.   Jonathan  Dayton  in  the  United  States  Senate.* 

March  19,  1804. 
The  provision  of  the  Constitution  had  arisen  from  an  experi- 
ence of  the  necessity  of  establishing  a  permanent  seat  for  the  Govern- 
ment. To  avert  the  evils  arising  from  a  perpetual  state  of  mutation, 
and  from  the  agitation  of  the  public  mind  whenever  it  is  discussed, 
the  Constitution  had  wisely  provided  for  the  establishment  of  a 
permanent  seat,  vesting  in  Congress  exclusive  legislation  over  it. 

*  Annals  of  Congress,  Eighth  Congress,  First  Session,  284. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCVIII  4O9 

CCCVIII.   James  Madison  to  Noah  Webster.* 

Washington,  Oct.  12,  1804. 
When  the  convention  as  recommended  at  Annapolis  took  place 
at  Philadelphia,  the  deputies  from  Virginia  supposed,  that  as  that 
state  had  been  first  in  the  successive  steps  leading  to  a  revision  of 
the  federal  system,  some  introductory  propositions  might  be  expected 
from  them.  They  accordingly  entered  into  consultation  on  the 
subject,  immediately  on  their  arrival  in  Philadelphia,  and  having 
agreed  among  themselves  on  the  outline  of  a  plan,  it  was  laid  before 
the  convention  by  Mr.  Randolph,  at  that  time  governor  of  the  state, 
as  well  as  member  of  the  convention.  This  project  was  the  basis 
of  its  deliberations;  and  after  passing  through  a  variety  of  changes 
in  its  important  as  well  as  its  lesser  features,  was  developed  and 
amended  into  the  form  finally  agreed  to. 


CCCIX.  Governor  Lewis  to 


I  will  conclude  this  long  epistle  by  a  concise  account  of  a  con- 
versation had  with  Hamilton,  which  may  not  be  deemed  uninter- 
esting, since  it  exhibits  him  as  a  statesman  who  looked  beyond  the 
present  to  the  far  future  interests  of  his  country.  It  is  well  known 
that  he  never  was  in  the  habit  of  concealing  or  disguising  his  senti- 
ments on  the  subject  of  government. 

Openly  denouncing,  on  all  occasions,  the  assertion  ^that  the  best 
administered  was  best',  as  a  political  heresy,  maintaining  the  superior 
aptitude  to  a  good  administration  of  some  systems  over  others,  and 
giving  the  preference,  abstractedly  considered,  to  a  well-balanced 
and  limited  monarchy,  he  was  at  the  same  time  undeviating  from 
the  opinion  that  such  a  government  could  not  be  established  in  the 
United  States,  because  a  necessary  ingredient  in  its  composition,  a 
privileged  order,  would  be  sought  for  in  vain  among  a  people  whose 
favourite  motto  was  'Liberty  and  Equality.'  When,  therefore,  the 
paragraphists  of  the  day  announced  that  he  had  proposed  in  the 
convention  of  the  states  a  monarchic  form  of  government,  I  was 
satisfied  it  was  the  effect  of  misconception  or  designed  misrepre- 
sentation. 

A  second  version,  that  he  proposed  a  presidency  for  life,  I  thought 
more  probable,  but  determined  to  suspend  my  opinion  until  I  should 
have  an  interview  with  him.  This  was  afforded  to  me  soon  after 
his  return  to  the  city  of  New- York.  The  monarchic  proposition, 
as  I  expected,  he  explicitly  denied.     The  other  he  admitted,  with 

*  Hunt,  Writings  of  James  Madison^  VII,  166. 

*  J.  C.  Hanulton,  History  of  Hu  Republic  of  the  Uniud  StaUs,  III,  345-347. 


4IO     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  qualification,  a  president  during  good  behaviour,  or  for  a  compe- 
tent period,  subject  to  impeachment,  with  an  ineligibility  forever 
thereafter. 

*^My  reasons,"  he  said,  '^were,  an  exclusion,  as  far  as  possible, 
of  the  influence  of  executive  patronage  in  the  choice  of  a  chief  magis- 
trate, and  a  desire  to  avoid  the  incalculable  mischief  which  must 
result  from  the  too  frequent  elections  of  that  ofRcer."  In  conclu- 
sion, he  made  the  following  prophetic  observation:  ''You  nor  I, 
my  friend,  may  not  live  to  see  the  day,  but  most  assuredly  it  will 
come,  when  every  vital  interest  of  the  state  will  be  merged  in  the 
all-absorbing  question  of  who  shall  be  the  next  president?" 


CCCX.    Extracts  from  Yates'  Secret  Proceedings.* 

"The  representatives  from  the  different  states  having  met  on 
the  25th  of  May,  1787,  at  the  state-house  in  Philadelphia,  General 
Washington  having  been  unanimously  placed  in  the  chair,  and  Major 
Jackson,  by  the  votes  of  all  the  states,  except  Pennsylvania,  appointed 
secretary;  the  convention  proceeded  to  read  the  powers  given  by 
the  different  states  to  their  delegates,  among  which  were  particularly 
noticed  the  power  of  Delaware,  which  restrained  its  delegates  from 
assenting  to  an  abolition  of  the  fifth  article  of  the  confederation, 
by  which  it  is  declared  'that  each  state  shall  have  one  vote.' 

"The  28th,  his  excellency  Govemour  Randolph,  a  member  from 
Virginia,  got  up,  and  in  a  long  and  elaborate  speech,  showed  the 
defects  existing  in  the  federal  government  then  in  existence,  as 
totally  inadequate  to  the  peace,  safety,  and  security  of  the  con- 
federacy, and  the  absolute  necessity  of  a  more  energetick  government. 

"He  closed  these  remarks  with  a  set  of  resolutions,  fifteen  in 
number,  which  he  proposed  to  the  convention  for  their  adoption, 
and  as  leading  principles  whereon  to  form  a  new  government.  He 
candidly  confessed,  they  were  not  calculated  for  a  federal  govern- 
ment. He  meant  a  strong  consolidated  union,  in  which  the  idea  of 
states  should  be  nearly  annihilated. 

1  j1  LetUf  to  the  Electors  of  Ptesidtnt  and  Fice-President  of  the  Uniud  States,  By 
ft  Citizen  of  New  York  [E.  C.  K  Genet]  Accompanied  with  an  extract  of  the  secret 
debates  of  the  Federal  Convention,  held  in  Philadelphia,  in  the  year  1787,  taken  by 
Chief  Justice  Yates.  New  York  Printed  by  Henry  C.  Southwick,  No.  2  Wall  Street, 
1808. 

These  same  extracts  were  reprinted  in  Hall's  American  Law  Joitmal,  18 13,  IV, 
563-570,  from  which  the  copy  in  the  text  is  taken. 

The  interest  attaching  to  this  document  is  due  to  the  garbling  of  the  extracts  in 
such  a  way  as  to  make  Madison  responsible  for  an  attempt  to  annihilate  the  state 
governments. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCX  4II 

^^Mr.  C.  Pinckney,  a  member  from  South  Carolina,  added,  that 
he  had  reduced  his  ideas  of  a  new  government  to  a  system  which  he 
read,  and  confessed  that  it  was  grounded  on  the  same  principle  as 
those  resolutions. 

"The  2d  of  June,  1787,  Mr.  Randolph  displayed  the  views  of 
the  plan  of  Virginia,  with  respect  to  the  executive  branch  of  the 
union.  He  proposed  the  establishment  of  a  directory  of  three  — 
dividing  the  states  in  three  divisions,  and  taking  an  executive  from 
each,  chosen  by  the  people  and  invested  with  extensive  power.  The 
idea  was  rejected  by  almost  all  the  other  delegates,  and  the  prin- 
ciple of  a  single  executive  adopted. 

"Mr.  Madison,  from  Virginia,  endeavoured  to  support  the  plan 
of  that  state  in  all  its  branches,  and  after  a  speech  pronounced  by 
Mr.  Reed,  to  prove  that  the  state-governments  must  sooner  or  later 
be  at  an  end,  and  that  therefore  it  was  the  duty  of  the  convention 
to  make  the  new  national  government  as  perfect  as  possible;  he 
gave  it  as  his  opinion  that  when  the  convention  agreed  to  the  first 
resolve  of  having  a  national  government  it  was  then  intended  to 
operate  to  the  exclusion  of  federal  government^  and  that  the  more  exten- 
sive the  basis  was  made  the  greater  would  be  the  probability  of 
duration,  happiness  and  good  order. 

"Mr.  James  Wilson,  from  Pennsylvania,  opposed  the  annihila- 
tion of  the  state-governments,  and  he  represented  that  the  freedom 
of  the  people  and  their  local  and  internal  good  police  depended  on 
their  existence  in  full  vigour,  and  that  it  was  not  possible  that  a 
general  government  as  despotick  even  as  that  of  the  Roman  em- 
perours,  could  be  adequate  to  the  government  of  North  America. 

"Mr.  King,  in  the  course  of  these  debates,  did  not  show  him- 
self averse  to  the  state  governments,  but  on  the  contrary,  in  oppo- 
sition to  Mr.  Madison,  who  wanted  the  new  constitution  to  be 
accepted  by  the  people  at  large,  he  observed  that  as  the  people  in 
every  state,  had  tacitly  agreed  to  a  federal  government,  the  legis- 
lature in  every  state  had  a  right  to  confirm  any  alteration  or  amend- 
ment in  it,  and  he  supposed  that  the  most  eligible  mode  of  approving 
the  constitution  would  be  a  convention  in  every  state. 

"The  8th  of  June,  Mr.  C.  Pinckney  having  moved  that  the 
National  Legislature  should  have  the  power  of  negativing  all  the 
laws  passed  by  the  state  legislatures,  which  they  may  deem  improper, 
he  was  warmly  supported  by  Mr.  Madison,  who  insisted  that  the 
unlimited  power  in  the  general  government  of  negativing  the  laws 
passed  by  the  state-governments  was  absolutely  necessary  —  that 
it  was  the  only  attractive  principle  which  would  retain  the  centri- 
fugal force,  and  that  without  it  planets  will  fly  from  their  orbits. 


412     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

''Mr.  Gerry  observed  ironically,  that  he  was  not  willing  to  take 
such  a  leap  in  the  dark,  and  recommended  to  designate  the  power 
of  the  National  Legislature,  to  which  the  negative  ought  to  apply. 
Mr.  Madison  insisted,  that  nothing  but  the  proposed  system  could 
restore  the  peace  and  harmony  of  the  country.  —  Mr.  Pinckney's 
motion  was  lost,  seven  states  against,  and  Virginia,  Pennsylvania, 
and  Massachusetts  for  it. 

''The  9th  of  June,  the  convention  being  engaged  in  the  discussion 
of  the  right  of  suffrage  by  the  number  of  inhabitants  and  not  by  states, 
Mr.  Wilson  having  moved  that  the  mode  of  representation  of  each  of 
the  states,  ought  to  be  from  the  number  of  its  free  inhabitants,  and 
of  every  other  description  three-fifths  to  one  free  inhabitant,  Mr. 
Madison  agreed  to  fix  accordingly,  the  standard  of  representation. 

''On  the  question  to  fill  up  the  blank  of  the  duration  of  the  first 
branch  of  the  National  Legislature,  Mr.  Madison  was  for  three 
years,  though  Mr.  Gerry  was  afraid  that  the  people  would  be  alarmed 
at  that  clause  savouring  of  despotism. 

"On  the  motion  to  fill  up  the  blank  of  the  duration  of  the  second 
branch  of  the  National  Legislature,  Mr.  Madison  was  for  seven 
years  —  and  declared,  that  considering  this  branch  as  a  check  on 
democracyy  it  could  not  be  too  strong. 

"A  plan  opposed  to  the  Virginia  plan  supported  by  Mr.  Madison, 
having  been  presented  by  Mr.  Patterson,  the  purpose  of  which  was 
merely  to  amend  the  old  confederacy,  Mr.  Madison  attempted  to 
have  it  rejected  in  toto;  but  Mr.  Hamilton  prevented  it,  and  said, 
that  he  was  not  in  sentiment  with  either  plan  —  that  he  supposed 
both  might  again  be  considered  as  federal  plans,  and  being  both 
fairly  in  committee  be  contracted  so  as  to  make  a  comparative  esti- 
mate of  the  two. 

"The  i6th  of  June,  Messrs.  Lansing  and  Patterson,  exposed  all 
the  inconveniences  of  the  Virginia  plan,  and  its  dangerous  tendency, 
after  which  Mr.  Wilson  stated  as  follows  the  two  plans: 

VIRGINIA 

Proposes  two  branches  in  the  Legislature. 

The  Legislative  power  derived  from  the  people. 

A  directory  first,  and  by  amendment  a  single  executive. 

The  legislature  to  legislate  on  all  national  concerns. 

The  legislature  to  have  the  power  of  negativing  all  the  state- 

JERSEY 

A  single  legislative  body. 

Legislative  power  derived  from  the  state. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCX  413 

No  provision  for  the  executive. 

The  legislature  to  legislate  only  on  limited  objects. 

The  executive  to  have  the  power  to  compel  obedience. 

^^Mr.  Hamilton's  ideas  were  materially  dissimilar  to  those  two 
plans,  and  in  an  eloquent  speech  stigmatized  them  both.  He  did 
not  approve  the  total  abolition  of  the  state-governments,  but  he 
wanted  to  reduce  them  to  simple  corporations,  with  very  limited 
powers.  He  did  not  think  that  a  federal  government  could  suit 
this  country;  but  still  he  pretended  that  he  was  at  a  loss  to  know 
what  could  be  substituted  for  it;  a  republican  form  of  government 
could  not  be  perfect.  But  he  would  hold  it,  however,  unwise  to 
change  it,  though  he  considered  the  British  form  of  government  as 
the  best  model  that  the  world  ever  produced.  He  wished  that  the 
convention  could  go  the  utmost  length  of  republican  principles,  and 
thought  that  they  would  not  deviate  from  it  if  they  made  the  chief 
magistrate  of  the  republick  elective  for  life,  and  gave  him  the  power 
of  negativing  all  laws,  of  making  war  and  peace  with  the  advice  of 
the  Senate,  and  the  sole  direction  of  all  military  operations,  &c.  &c. 
He  proposed  also  to  appoint  in  each  state  an  officer,  to  have  a  nega- 
tive on  all  state-laws.  He  confessed  that  his  plan  and  that  from 
Virginia  were  very  remote  from  the  ideas  of  the  people,  and  he  ad- 
mitted explicitly,  that  the  Jersey  plan  was  nearest  to  their  expecta- 
tions. He  described  the  Virginia  plan  as  being  nothing  but  democ- 
racy, checked  by  democracy,  or  pork  stilly  with  a  littU  change  of  the 
saucel 

"Mr.  Madison  did  not  relish  at  all  the  criticism  of  Mr.  Hamilton, 
and  in  a  long  speech  vindicated  the  Virginia  system,  and  attempted 
to  demonstrate  its  superiority  over  the  Jersey  plan. 

"On  a  motion  of  Mr.  King,  the  Jersey  plan  was  rejected  as  inad- 
missible, seven  states  against  it  and  four  for  it,  including  New  York. 

"The  Committee  then  rose  and  reported  again  the  Virginia 

plan. 

"Mr.  Wilson,  on  the  first  clause,  represented,  that  it  was  not  a 
desirable  object  to  annihilate  the  state-governments. 

"Mr.  Hamilton  corrected  what  he  had  said  against  those  govern- 
ments; but  intimated  that  they  ought  to  be  reduced  to  a  smaller 
scale. 

"Mr.  King  observed,  that  none  of  the  states  could  properly  be 
called  sovereign,  being  deprived  of  several  sovereign  rights,  such  as 
making  peace  and  war;  and  that  in  reality  the  consolidation  had 
already  taken  place  by  the  articles  of  confederation. 

"To  compromise  matters  between  the  Virginia  and  the  Jersey 
plan,  Dr.  Johnson,  proposed,  that  the  state-governments  should  be 


414     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

preserved,  with  some  modification;  and  that  the  states,  in  their 
legislative  capacity,  should  have  the  right  to  appoint  the  second 
branch  of  the  National  Legislature,  in  order  to  unite  them  with  the 
general  government. 

'^  Messrs.  Ellsworth  and  Johnson,  spoke  in  favour  of  that  modi- 
fication, and  observed  that  the  state-legislature  were  more  compe- 
tent to  make  a  judicious  choice  than  the  people  at  large  for  the  second 
branch,  where  wisdom  and  firmness  were  wanted. 

*'Mr.  Madison  opposed  that  idea,  and  for  his  part,  he  persisted 
to  apprehend  the  greatest  danger  from  the  state-governments;  and 
he  declared,  that  he  was  always  inclined  for  a  general  government 
emanating  from  the  people  at  large,  and  independent  of  any  local 
authority.  Finding,  however,  that  the  majority  was  against  him, 
he  proposed  a  postponement;  but  it  was  negatived,  and  the  clause 
proposed  by  Dr.  Johnson  adopted. 

^'Mr.  Madison,  on  the  sub-question  relative  to  the  organization 
of  the  Senate,  and  the  rotation  in  that  branch,  said,  we  are  acting 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  confederation;  and  by  the  vote  already 
taken,  the  temper  of  the  state-legislatures  will  transfuse  into  the 
Senate. 

The  26th  of  June,  on  the  question  of  the  continuance  of  the 
senators  in  office,  the  same  Mr.  Madison  gave  it  as  his  opinion  that 
the  longer  the  senators  remain  in  office,  the  better  it  will  be  for  the 
stability  and  permanency  of  the  government.  Several  members 
thought  differently  on  that  question,  and  proved  that  the  longer 
the  senators  resided  at  the  seat  of  government,  the  more  they  would 
become  naturalized  to  its  climate  and  habits;  that  they  might  even 
settle  there,  and  forget  their  own  state  and  its  interest. 

'^The  26th,  on  a  motion  to  strike  out  the  clause  declaring,  that 
the  senators  of  the  union  should  be  ineligible  to  any  state  office;  Mr. 
Madison  opposed  it,  and  observed,  that  Congress  had  heretofore 
depended  on  state-interest,  and  that  the  convention  was  now  pur- 
suing the  same  plan.  He  was  contradicted  by  Messrs.  Pinckney 
and  Butler,  who  observed,  that  the  state  and  general  governments 
must  act  together;  that  the  Senate,  or  second  branch,  was  the  aristo- 
cratick  part  of  our  government,  and  that  they  must  be  controled 
by  the  states  —  The  motion  for  striking  out  was  carried. 

"The  following  motion  was  made  by  Mr.  Lansing,  of  New  York: 
—  That  the  representation  of  the  second  branch  be  according  to 
the  articles  of  confederation,  that  is  to  say,  on  federal  principles  of 
equality.  A  debate  took  place,  in  which  Mr.  Madison,  supporting 
the  Virginia  plan,  declared  that  the  representation  must  not  be  on 
federal  principles,  but  relative  to  the  number  of  inhabitants.    He 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCX  415 

was  answered  by  several  members,  but  particularly  by  Dr.  Johnson, 
who  observed,  that  the  idea  of  destroying  the  state-governments 
having  been  over-ruled,  the  convention  was  to  frame  a  government, 
not  for  the  people  of  America,  but  for  the  political  societies  called 
states,  which  compose  the  union;  and  that  they  must,  therefore, 
have  a  voice  in  the  second  branch,  if  it  was  meant  to  preserve  their 
existence,  the  people  composing  already  the  first  branch. 

''Mr.  Madison  rose  up  against  Dr.  Johnson  in  defence  of  the 
Virginia  plan,  and  supported  the  following  dogmas;  ''that  there 
is  a  gradation  of  power  in  all  societies,  from  the  lowest  corporation 
to  the  highest  sovereign;  that  the  states  never  possessed  the  right 
of  sovereignty;  that  they  were  only  corporations  having  the  power 
of  making  by-laws;  that  they  ought  to  be  still  more  under  the  con- 
trol of  the  general  government,  at  least  as  much  as  they  were  under 
the  King  and  British  government. 

"Mr.  Hamilton,  without  adopting  the  ideas  of  Mr.  Madison, 
spoke  against  the  motion  of  Mr.  Lansing,  which  was  lost,  four  states 
for  and  six  against  it. 

"Judge  Ellsworth  then  moved,  as  an  amendment  to  the  plan  of 
Virginia,  that  in  the  second  branch  each  state  should  have  an  equal 
vote:  equality  of  votes  being  the  principle  on  which  all  confeder- 
acies are  formed. 

"Mr.  Madison  refused  to  compromise,  and  exclaimed  that  the 
greatest  danger  for  the  general  government  would  arise  from  the 
opposition  of  the  northern  interest  of  the  continent  to  the  southern 
interest:  alluding  to  certain  expressions  of  several  members  leaning 
towards  a  division  of  the  union,  if  Mr.  Madison's  plan  was  not 
modified. 

"Dr.  Franklin  recommended  a  compromise  on  that  subject, 
and  made,  in  his  usual  way,  the  following  comparison:  "when  a 
joiner  wants  to  fit  two  boards,  he  takes  off  with  his  plane  the  uneven 
parts  from  each  side,  and  thus  they  fit:  let  us  do  the  same,  said  he, 
and  as  an  expedient  he  proposed,  that  the  Senate  be  elected  by  the 
states  equally.''  But  Mr.  Madison,  considering,  that  by  his  plan 
the  Senate  was  to  be  the  greatest  engine  by  which  all  the  state-laws 
could  be  reversed  and  annulled,  would  consent  to  no  arrangement 
that  would  deprive  the  large  states  of  having  in  both  branches  a 
weight  proportioned  to  their  population. 

"Mr.  King  recommended  moderation,  and  was  in  sentiment  with 
those  who  wished  the  preservation  of  the  state-governments.  The 
general  government,  in  his  opinion,  could  be  constructed  so  as  to 
effect  that  object.  The  new  constitution  must  be  considered  as  a 
commission  under  which  the  general  government  is  to  act,  and  as 


4l6     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

such  be  the  guardian  of  the  state-rights.  Five  states  voted  for  the 
amendment,  and  five  against  it,  and  one  state  was  divided,  and 
the  amendment  proposed  by  Mr.  Elsworth  was  lost. 

"The  2d  of  July,  General  Pinckney  moved  for  a  select  committee, 
to  take  into  consideration  both  branches  of  the  legislature.  Divers 
opinions  were  presented,  among  which  Gouverneur  Morris  suggested 
the  propriety  of  rendering  the  Senate  an  absolute  aristocracy,  repre- 
senting large  property  combined  with  distinguished  talents. 

"Mr.  Madison  opposed  the  appointment  of  a  committee  —  he 
thought  it  would  delay  the  business;  and  if  appointed  from  each 
state,  would  contain  the  whole  strength  of  state-prejudices.  A 
committee  notwithstanding  was  appointed  from  each  state. 

"The  3d  of  July  the  committee  met,  and  agreed  on  the  following 
report,  on  condition  that  both  propositions  should  generally  be 
adopted: 

1st.  That  in  the  first  branch  of  the  legislature,  each  of  the  states 
be  allowed  one  member  for  every  40,000  inhabitants,  of  the  descrip- 
tion reported  in  the  seventh  resolution  of  the  committee  of  the  whole 
house  —  that  each  state  not  containing  that  number  shall  be  allowed 
one  member  —  That  all  bills  for  raising  or  apportioning  money  and 
for  fixing  salaries  of  the  officers  of  government  of  the  United  States, 
shall  originate  in  the  first  branch,  and  shall  not  be  altered  or  amended 
by  the  second  branch  —  and  that  no  money  shall  be  drawn  from  the 
publick  treasury  but  in  pursuance  of  appropriation  to  be  originated 
by  the  first  branch. 

"2dly.  That  in  the  second  branch  of  the  legislature  of  states, 
each  state  shall  have  an  equal  vote. 

"Mr.  Madison  said  he  restrained  himself  from  animadverting 
on  the  report  from  the  respect  alone  which  he  bore  to  the  members 
of  the  committee." 

Here  end  the  notes  of  Mr.  Yates.  He  left  at  that  period,  with 
Mr.  Lansing,  the  convention.  They  had  both  uniformly  opposed 
the  Virginia  system,  and  despairing  of  rendering  any  real  service 
to  their  country,  and  to  the  state  who  had  sent  them,  they  left  the 
convention  and  returned  no  more. 


CCCXI.   James  Madison  to  TnoiifAS  Jefferson.* 

Montpelier  July  17.  18 10. 
Among  the  papers  relating  to  the  Convention  of  1787.  communi- 
cated to  you,  that  copies  in  your  hands  might  double  the  security 
agst.  destructive  casualties,  was  a  delineation  of  Hamilton's  plan 

^  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  294. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXII  417 

of  a  Constitution  in  his  own  writing.  On  looking  for  it  among  the 
Debates  &c,  which  were  returned  to  me,  this  particular  paper  does 
not  appear.  I  conclude  therefore,  that  it  had  not  then  been  copied, 
or  was  at  the  time  in  some  separate  situation.  I  am  very  sorry  to 
trouble  you  on  such  a  subject,  but  being  under  an  engagement  to 
furnish  a  Copy  of  that  project,  I  must  ask  the  favor  of  you  to  sec 
whether  it  be  not  among  your  papers;  &  if  so,  to  forward  it  by  the 
mail.  

CCCXII.   John  W.  Eppes  to  James  Madison.* 

Cumberland  Near  Ca-Ira  Nov.  i.  1810 
My  absence  from   Chesterfield  prevented   my  receiving  your 
letter  until  a  few  days  since  — 

When  the  papers  relating  to  the  proceedings  of  the  convention 
were  put  into  my  hands  for  the  purpose  of  being  copied  Mr.  Jefferson 
was  very  particular  in  his  charge  —  I  understood  from  him  per- 
fectly that  it  was  a  trust  entirely  confidential  —  The  particular  and 
confidential  manner  in  which  he  entrusted  them  to  me  prevented 
my  making  the  smallest  extract  from  any  part  of  them  —  and  so 
careful  was  I  of  preserving  sacred  a  document  the  importance  of 
which  to  posterity  I  could  not  but  feel,  that  I  never  suffered  the 
papers  to  mix  either  with  my  own  or  any  others  entrusted  to  my 
care  —  They  were  kept  in  a  Trunk  in  which  whenever  I  ceased  writ- 
ing they  were  replaced  and  each  original  as  copied  was  returned 
with  the  copy  to  Mr.  Jefferson  — 

I  remember  among  the  papers  one  headed  "plan  of  a  constitu- 
tion by  Colo:  Hamilton"  —  it  was  on  smaller  paper  than  your  copy 
and  fastened  with  a  pin  to  one  of  the  leaves  of  the  original  —  Whether 
it  was  in  your  hand  writing  or  Colo:  Hamiltons  I  do  not  remember 

—  I  remember  its  features  &  that  after  copying  it  I  fastened  it  again 
with  the  same  pin  —  I  still  think  that  by  turning  carefully  over  the 
original  you  will  find  the  paper  fastened  with  a  pin  to  one  of  the 
sheets  — 

I  have  but  few  papers  remaining  of  those  I  possessed  in  Phila- 
delphia —  As  you  requested  it  I  have  carefully  gone  through  them 

—  I  was  certain  however  prior  to  the  search  that  it  was  utterly 
impossible  from  the  precautions  I  took  in  consequence  of  Mr  Jeffer- 
sons  charge  that  any  paper  belonging  to  your  manuscript  could  be 
mixed  with  mine  —  For  years  after  the  copy  was  taken  so  far  did 
I  consider  the  whole  transaction  on  my  part  confidential  that  I  did 
not  even  consider  myself  at  liberty  to  mention  that  a  copy  of  the 

^  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  294-296. 


41 8      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

debates  of  the  convention  existed  —  It  was  not  until  within  a  few 
years  since  when  I  found  the  fact  known  to  others  through  yourself 
and  Mr.  Jefferson  that  I  thought  it  unnecessary  to  impose  on  myself 
the  same  rigid  silence  —  I  should  as  a  member  of  the  community 
deeply  deplore  the  loss  of  the  paper  as  it  contains  proof  clear  as 
holy  writ  that  the  idol  of  the  Federal  party  was  not  a  Monarchist 
in  Theory  merely,  but  the  open  zealous  and  unreserved  advocate 
for  the  adoption  of  the  monarchical  system  in  this  Gauntry  —  Your 
evidence  however  of  the  fact  will  be  sufficient  with  posterity;  and 
that  you  will  find  among  the  originals  a  paper  headed  in  the  way  I 
mention  containing  his  plan  of  Government  as  suggested  to  you  I 
have  no  doubt — . 

CCCXIII.     GOUVERNEUR  MORRIS  TO   RoBERT  WaLSH.^ 

Morrisania,  February  5th,  181 1. 

General  Hamilton  had  little  share  in  forming  the  Constitution. 
He  disliked  it,  believing  all  Republican  government  to  be  radically 
defective.     .  .  . 

Those,  who  formed  our  Constitution,  were  not  blind  to  its  defects. 
They  believed  a  monarchial  form  to  be  neither  solid  nor  durable. 
They  conceived  it  to  be  vigorous  or  feeble,  active  or  slothful,  wise 
or  foolish,  mild  or  cruel,  just  or  unjust,  according  to  the  personal 
character  of  the  Prince.     .  .  . 

Fond,  however,  as  the  framers  of  our  national  Constitution  were 
of  Republican  government,  they  were  not  so  much  blinded  by  their 
attachment,  as  not  to  discern  the  difficulty,  perhaps  impracticability, 
of  raising  a  durable  edifice  from  crumbling  materials.  History,  the 
parent  of  political  science,  had  told  them,  that  it  was  almost  as  vain 
to  expect  permanency  from  democracy,  as  to  construct  a  palace 
on  the  surface  of  the  sea. 

But  it  would  have  been  foolish  to  fold  their  arms,  and  sink  into 
despondency,  because  they  could  neither  form  nor  establish  the  best 
of  all  possible  systems.  They  tell  us  in  their  President's  letter  of 
the  seventeenth  of  September,  1787;  *The  Constitution,  which  we 
now  present,  is  the  result  of  a  spirit  of  amity,  and  of  that  mutual 
deference  and  concession,  which  the  peculiarity  of  our  political 
situation  rendered  indispensable.'  It  is  not  easy  to  be  wise  for  all 
times;  not  even  for  the  present,  much  less  for  the  future;  and  those, 
who  judge  of  the  past,  must  recollect  that  when  it  was  present,  the 
present  was  future. 

...  It  is  necessary  here  to  anticipate  one  of  your  subsequent 

^  Jftred  Sparks,  Life  of  Gouoermur  Morris,  III,  260-265. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXIV  419 

questions,  ^What  has  been,  and  what  is  now  the  influence  of  the 
State  governments  on  the  Federal  system?  To  obtain  anything  like 
a  check  on  the  rashness  of  democracy,  it  was  necessary  not  only  to 
organize  the  legislature  into  different  bodies,  (for  that  alone  is  a  poor 
expedient,)  but  to  endeavor  that  these  bodies  should  be  animated 
by  a  different  spirit.  To  this  end  the  States  in  their  corporate 
capacity  were  made  electors  of  the  Senate;  and  so  long  as  the  State 
governments  had  considerable  influence,  and  the  consciousness  of 
dignity,  which  that  influence  imparts,  the  Senate  felt  something 
of  the  desired  sentiment,  and  answered  in  some  degree  the  end  of 
its  institution.     But  that  day  is  past. 

This  opens  to  our  view  a  dilemma,  which  was  not  unperceived 
when  the  Constitution  was  formed.  If  the  State  influence  should 
continue,  the  union  could  not  last;  and,  if  it  did  not,  the  utility  of 
the  Senate  would  cease.  It  was  observed  in  the  Convention  at  an 
early  day,  by  one  who  had  afterwards  a  considerable  share  of  the 
business,  when  the  necessity  of  drawing  a  line  between  national 
sovereignty  and  State  independence  was  insisted  on,  ^that,  if  Aaron's 
rod  could  not  swallow  the  rods  of  the  Magicians,  their  rods  would 
swallow  his.'  But  it  is  one  thing  to  perceive  a  dilemma,  and  another 
thing  to  get  out  of  it.  In  the  option  between  two  evils,  that  which 
appeared  to  be  the  least  was  preferred,  and  the  power  of  the  union 
provided  for.  At  present  the  influence  of  the  general  government 
has  so  thoroughly  pervaded  every  State,  that  all  the  little  wheels 
are  obliged  to  turn  according  to  the  great  one. 


CCCXIV.    GOUVERNEUR  MORRIS  TO  TiMOTHY  PiCKERING.* 

Morrisania,  December  22d,  18 14. 

While  I  sat  in  the  Convention,  my  mind  was  too  much 
occupied  by  the  interests  of  our  country  to  keep  notes  of  what  we 
had  done.  Some  gentlemen,  I  was  told,  passed  their  evenings  in 
transcribing  speeches  from  shorthand  minutes  of  the  day.  They 
can  speak  positively  on  matters,  of  which  I  have  little  recollection. 
My  faculties  were  on  the  stretch  to  further  our  business,  remove 
impediments,  obviate  objections,  and  conciliate  jarring  opinions. 
All  which  I  can  now  do  is  to  ask  myself  what  I  should  do  were  ques- 
tions stated  anew;  for,  in  all  probability,  what  I  should  now  do  would 
be  what  I  then  did,  my  sentiments  and  opinions  having  undergone 
no  essential  change  in  forty  years. 

Propositions  to  countenance  the  issue  of  paper  money,  and  the 
consequent  violation  of  contracts,  must  have  met  with  all  the  oppo- 

*  Jared  Sparks,  Life  of  Goweriuur  Morris^  III,  322-323. 


420     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

8ition  I  could  make.  But,  my  dear  Sir,  what  can  a  history  of  the 
Constitution  avail  towards  interpreting  its  provisions.  This  must 
be  done  by  comparing  the  plain  import  of  the  words,  with  the  gen- 
eral tenor  and  object  of  the  instrument.  That  instrument  was  written 
by  the  fingers,  which  write  this  letter.  TTsrUin^  ^g^ r f^TTyf^^nTw^ant 
and  equivocal  terms,  I  believed  it  to  be  as  clear  as  our  language 
would  permit;  excepting,  nevertheless,  a  part  of  what  relates  to 
the  judiciary.  On  that  subject,  conflicting  opinions  had  been  main- 
tained with  so  much  professional  astuteness,  that  it  became  neces- 
sary to  select  phrases,  which  expressing  my  own  notions  would  not 
alarm  others,  nor  shock  their  selflove,  and  to  the  best  of  my  recol- 
lection, this  was  the  only  part  which  passed  without  cavil. 


CCCXV.   GouvERNEUR  MoRRis  TO  Moss  Kent.* 

Morrisania,  January  I2th,  1815. 

When,  in  framing  the  Constitution,  we  restricted  so  closely  the 
power  of  government  over  our  fellow  citizens  of  the  militia,  it  was  not 
because  we  supposed  there  would  ever  be  a  Congress  so  mad  as  to 
attempt  tyrannizing  over  the  people  or  militia,  by  the  militia.  The 
danger  we  meant  chiefly  to  provide  against  was,  the  hazarding  of 
the  national  safety  by  a  reliance  on  that  expensive  and  inefficient 
force.  An  overweening  vanity  leads  the  fond  many,  each  man  against 
the  conviction  of  his  own  heart,  to  believe  or  aifect  to  believe,  that 
militia  can  beat  veteran  troops  in  the  open  field  and  even  play  of 
battle.  This  idle  notion,  fed  by  vaunting  demagogues,  alarmed 
us  for  our  country,  when  in  the  course  of  that  time  and  chance,  which 
happen  to  all,  she  should  be  at  war  with  a  great  power. 

Those,  who,  during  the  Revolutionary  storm,  had  confidential 
acquaintance  with  the  conduct  of  affairs,  knew  well  that  to  rely  on 
militia  was  to  lean  on  a  broken  reed.  We  knew,  also,  that  to  coop 
up  in  a  camp  those  habituated  to  the  freedom  and  comforts  of  social 
life,  without  subjecting  them  to  the  strict  observation  and  severe 
control  of  officers  regularly  bred,  would  expose  them  to  such  fell 
disease,  that  pestilence  would  make  more  havoc  than  the  sword. 
We  knew  that  when  militia  were  of  necessity  called  out,  and  nothing 
but  necessity  can  justify  the  call,  mercy  as  well  as  policy  requires, 
that  they  be  led  immediately  to  attack  their  foe.  This  gives  them 
a  tolerable  chance;  and  when  superior  in  number,  possessing,  as 
they  must,  a  correct  knowledge  of  the  country,  it  is  not  improbable 
that  their  efforts  may  be  crowned  with  success.    To  that  end,  never- 


^  Jared  Sparks,  Life  of  Gouoenuur  Morris,  III,  328-329. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXVI  42I 

theless,  it  is  proper  to  maintain  in  them  a  good  opinion  of  themselves, 
for  despondency  is  not  the  road  to  victory. 

But  to  rely  on  undisciplined,  ill-officered  men,  though  each  were 
individually  as  brave  as  Caesar,  to  resist  the  well-directed  impulse 
of  veterans,  is  to  act  in  defiance  of  reason  and  experience.  We 
flattered  ourselves,  that  the  constitutional  restriction  on  the  use 
of  militia,  combined  with  the  just  apprehension  of  danger  to  liberty 
from  a  standing  army,  would  force  those  entrusted  with  the  conduct 
of  national  affairs,  to  make  seasonable  provision  for  a  naval  force. 
We  were  not  ignorant  of  the  puerile  notions  entertained  by  some  on 
that  subject,  but  we  hoped,  alas!  we  vainly  hoped,  that  our  coun- 
cils would  not  be  swayed  by  chattering  boys,  nor  become  the  sport 
of  senseless  declamation.         

CCCXVI.    Thomas  Jefferson  to  John  Adams.^ 

Monticello,  August  10,  1815. 
Do  you  know  that  there  exists  in  manuscript  the  ablest  work 
of  this  kind  ever  yet  executed,  of  the  debates  of  the  constitutional 
convention  of  Philadelphia  in  1788?  The  whole  of  every  thing  said 
and  done  there  was  taken  down  by  Mr.  Madison,  with  a  labor  and 
exactness  beyond  comprehension. 


CCCXVII.    GouvERNEUR  MoRRis  TO  W.  H.  Wells.* 

Morrisania,  February  24th,  1815. 

The  Constitution,  I  think,  intended  that  certain  offices  should 
be  held  at  the  President's  pleasure.  It  is  unquestionably  an  abuse 
to  create  a  vacancy  in  the  recess  of  the  Senate,  by  turning  a  man  out 
of  office,  and  then  filling  it  as  a  vacancy  that  has  happened.  .  .  . 
Shortly  after  the  Convention  met,  there  was  a  serious  discussion 
on  the  importance  of  arranging  a  national  system  of  sufficient  strength 
to  operate,  in  despite  of  State  opposition,  and  yet  not  strong  enough 
to  break  down  State  authority.  I  delivered  on  that  occasion  this 
short  speech.  *Mr  President;  if  the  rod  of  Aaron  do  not  swallow 
the  rods  of  the  Magicians,  the  rods  of  the  Magicians  will  swallow  the 
rod  of  Aaron.' 

You  will  ask,  perhaps,  how,  under  such  impressions,  I  could 
be  an  advocate  of  the  Federal  Constitution.  To  this  I  answer,  first, 
that  I  was  warmly  pressed  by  Hamilton  to  assist  in  writing  the 
Federalist,  which  I  declined.  Secondly,  that  nothing  human  can 
be  perfect.   Thirdly,  that  the  obstacles  to  a  less  imperfect  system  were 

*  T.  J.  Randolph,  Memoir ,  Correspondence ,  etc^  of  Thomas  Jefferson,  IV,  268. 

*  Jared  Sparks,  Life  ofGouvemeur  Morris,  III,  338-339. 


422      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

insurmountable.  Fourthly,  that  the  Old  Confederation  was  worse. 
And,  fifthly,  that  there  was  no  reason,  at  that  time,  to  suppose  our 
public  morals  would  be  so  soon  and  so  entirely  corrupted.  Mr. 
Mason,  a  delegate  from  Virginia,  constantly  inveighing  against 
Aristocracy,  labored  to  introduce  Aristocratic  provisions.  Some  of 
them  might  have  been  wholesome,  but  they  would  have  been  re- 
jected by  public  feeling,  in  the  form  proposed,  and  if  modified  to 
render  them  acceptable,  by  detracting  proportionately  from  execu- 
tive authority,  which  was  his  plan,  we  should  have  risked  less  indeed 
from  the  whelming  flood  of  Democracy,  but  we  should  have  had  a 
President  unable  to  perform  the  duties  of  his  ofiice.  Surrounded 
by  difficulties,  we  did  the  best  we  could;  leaving  it  with  those  who 
should  come  after  us  to  take  counsel  from  experience,  and  exercise 
prudently  the  power  of  amendment,  which  we  had  provided. 


CCCXVIII.    RuFus  King  in  the  United  States  Senate.* 

March  20,  18 16. 
The  States  may  now  severally  direct  the  manner  of  choosing 
their  own  Electors;  it  is  proposed  that  the  manner  shall  be  pre- 
scribed by  the  Constitution.  This,  Mr.  K[ing]  thought  would  be 
an  important  change,  and  the  only  change  suggested  in  the  Consti- 
tution which  he  deemed  an  improvement.  He  thought  he  might 
venture  to  say,  that  if  there  was  any  part  of  the  Constitution  deemed 
by  its  framers  and  advocates  to  be  better  secured  than  any  other 
against  the  enterprises  which  have  since  occurred,  it  was  the  very 
provision  on  the  subject  of  elections  to  the  Presidency.  The  idea 
was,  that  the  action  of  that  particular  agency  which  has  since  con- 
trolled it,  was  as  much  displaced  by  the  Constitutional  plan  of  elec- 
tion of  President  and  Vice  President,  as  could  possibly  be  devised. 
The  opinion  had  been  that  all  undue  agency  or  influence  was  entirely 
guarded  against;  that  the  men  selected  by  the  people  from  their 
own  body  would  give  their  votes  in  such  a  manner  as  that  no  oppor- 
tunity would  be  afiorded  for  a  combination,  to  change  the  freedom 
and  popular  character  which  naturally  belonged  to  the  electoral 
bodies.  Such  had  been  the  idea  of  the  nation  at  the  time  of  the 
adoption  of  the  Constitution.  We  all  know,  said  he,  the  course 
which  this  thing  has  taken.  The  election  of  a  President  of  the 
United  States  is  no  longer  that  process  which  the  Constitution  con- 
templated. In  conformity  with  the  original  view  of  the  authors  of 
that  instrument,  I  would  restore,  as  thoroughly  as  possible,  the  free- 
dom of  election  to  the  people  ...  It  was  with  the  people  the  Con- 

^  Annals  of  Congress,  Fourteenth  Congress,  First  Session,  216. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXIX  423 

stitution  meant  to  place  the  election  of  the  Chief  Magistrate,  that 
being  the  source  least  liable  to  be  corrupt. 

CCCXIX.   Autobiography  of  William  Few.^ 

At  the  time  appointed  for  the  meeting  of  the  Convention  at 
Philadelphia,  a  full  representation  of  all  the  States  convened  in  the 
State  House,  and  chose  G.  Washington  for  their  President,  and  com- 
menced their  business,  but  they  had  to  encounter  incalculable  diffi- 
culties. The  modification  of  the  State  Rights,  the  different  interests 
and  diversity  of  opinions  seemed  for  some  time  to  present  obstacles 
that  could  not  be  surmounted.  After  about  three  weeks  delibera- 
tion and  debating,  the  Convention  had  serious  thoughts  of  adjourn- 
ing without  doing  anything.  All  human  efforts  seemed  to  fail. 
Doctor  Franklin  proposed  to  appoint  a  chaplain  and  implore  Divine 
assistance,  but  his  motion  did  not  prevail.  It  was  an  awful  and 
critical  moment.  If  the  Convention  had  then  adjourned,  the  dis- 
solution of  the  union  of  the  States  seemed  inevitable.  This  con- 
sideration no  doubt  had  its  weight  in  reconciling  clashing  opinions 
and  interests.  It  was  believed  to  be  of  the  utmost  importance  to 
concede  to  different  opinions  so  far  as  to  endeavor  to  meet  oppo- 
sition on  middle  ground,  and  to  form  a  Constitution  that  might 
preserve  the  union  of  the  States.  On  that  principle  of  accommo- 
dations the  business  progressed,  and  after  about  three  months' 
arduous  labor,  a  plan  of  Constitution  was  formed  on  principles 
which  did  not  altogether  please  anybody,  but  it  was  agreed  to  be 
the  most  expedient  that  could  be  devised  and  agreed  to. 


CCCXX.   James  Madison  to  John  Quincy  Adams.* 

Montpelier  Deer.  23.  1817 
The  best  answer  I  can  give  to  your  communication  on  the  sub- 
ject of  his  wish  for  a  copy  of  the  Journal  of  the  Convention,  is  to 
state  the  circumstance,  that  at  the  close  of  the  Convention,  the 
question  having  arisen  what  was  to  be  done  with  the  Journal  &  other 
papers,  and  it  being  suggested  that  they  ought  to  be  either  destroyed 
or  deposited  in  the  Custody  of  the  Presidt.  it  was  determined  that 
they  should  remain  in  his  hands  subject  only  to  the  orders  of  the 

*  Printed  in  Magazine  of  American  History^  VII,  352-353,  from  MS.  in 
the  possession  of  William  Few  Chrystie.  There  is  no  date  ascribed  to  the  MS.  The 
last  date  in  it  is  October,  18 16.  In  the  opening  paragraph  he  refers  to  the  "approach 
of  age."  As  he  was  bom  in  1748,  he  would  have  been  sixty-eight  years  old  in  18 16, 
so  the  MS.  is  probably  of  about  that  date. 

■  Documentary  History  of  the  ConstUiUion^  V,  298-299. 


424      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

National  Legislature.  —  Whether  a  publication  of  them  ought  to 
be  promoted,  as  having  a  useful  tendency,  you  will  probably  be 
better  able  to  decide,  on  a  perusal  of  the  document  than  one  who 
can  not  take  the  same  abstract  view  of  the  subject. 


CCCXXI.   James  Madison  to  James  Monroe.^ 

Montpellier,  Dec.  27,  1817, 
These  considerations  remind  me  of  the  attempts  in  the  Con- 
vention to  vest  in  the  Judiciary  Dept.  a  qualified  negative  on  Legis- 
lative bills.  Such  a  Controul,  restricted  to  Constitutional  points, 
besides  giving  greater  stability  &  system  to  the  rules  of  expounding 
the  Instrument,  would  have  precluded  the  question  of  a  Judiciary 
annulment  of  Legislative  Acts, 


CCCXXIL    RuFus  King  in  the  United  States  Senate.* 

January  12,  1818. 

Without  adverting  to  the  several  branches  of  the  executive 
power,  for  the  purpose  of  distinguishing  the  cases  in  which  it  is 
exclusively  vested  in  the  President,  from  those  in  which  it  is  vested 
in  him  jointly  with  the  Senate,  it  will  suffice  on  this  occasion  to  ob- 
serve that,  in  respect  to  foreign  affairs,  the  President  has  no  exclu- 
sive binding  power,  except  that  of  receiving  the  Ambassadors  and 
other  foreign  Ministers,  which,  as  it  involves  the  decision  of  the 
competence  of  the  power  which  sends  them,  may  be  an  act  of  this 
character;  to  the  validity  of  all  other  definitive  proceedings  in  the 
management  of  the  foreign  affairs,  the  Constitutional  advice  and 
consent  of  the  Senate  are  indispensable. 

In  these  concerns  the  Senate  are  the  Constitutional  and  the  only 
responsible  counsellors  of  the  President.  And  in  this  capacity  the 
Senate  may,  and  ought  to,  look  into  and  watch  over  every  branch 
of  the  foreign  affairs  of  the  nation;  they  may,  therefore,  at  any 
time  call  for  full  and  exact  information  respecting  the  foreign  affairs, 
and  express  their  opinion  and  advice  to  the  President  respecting 
the  same,  when,  and  under  whatever  other  circumstances,  they  may 
think  such  advice  expedient. 

There  is  a  peculiar  jealousy  manifested  in  the  Constitution 
concerning  the  power  which  shall  manage  the  foreign  affairs,  and 
make  treaties  with  foreign  nations.  Hence  the  provision  which 
requires  the  consent  of  two-thirds  of  the  Senators  to  confirm  any 
compact  with  a  foreign  nation  that  shall  bind  the  United  States; 

*  G.  Hunt,  Writings  of  James  Madison^  VIII,   406. 

'  Annals  of  Congress^  Fifteenth  G>ngre88,  First  Session,  I,  106-107. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXXIII  425 

thus  putting  it  in  the  power  of  a  minority  of  the  Senators,  or  States 
to  control  the  President  and  a  majority  of  the  Senate:  a  check  on 
the  Executive  power  to  be  found  in  no  other  case. 

To  make  a  treaty  includes  all  the  proceedings  by  which  it  is 
made;  and  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate  being  necessary  in 
the  making  of  treaties,  must  necessarily  be  so,  touching  the  measures 
employed  in  making  the  same.  The  Constitution  does  not  say  that 
treaties  shall  be  concluded,  but  that  they  shall  be  made,  by  and 
with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate:  none  therefore  can  be 
made  without  such  advice  and  consent;  and  the  objections  against 
the  agency  of  the  Senate  in  making  treaties,  or  in  advising  the  Presi- 
dent to  make  the  same,  cannot  be  sustained,  but  by  giving  to  the 
Constitution  an  interpretation  different  from  its  obvious  and  most 
salutary  meaning. 

To  support  the  objection,  this  gloss  must  be  given  to  the  Con- 
stitution, ^'that  the  President  shall  make  treaties,  and  by  and  with 
the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate  ratify  the  same."  That  this 
is,  or  could  have  been  intended  to  be  the  interpretation  of  the  Con- 
stitution, one  observation  will  disprove.  If  the  President  alone 
has  power  to  make  a  treaty,  and  the  same  be  made  pursuant  to  the 
powers  and  instructions  given  to  his  Minister,  its  ratification  fol- 
lows as  a  matter  of  course,  and  to  refuse  the  same  would  be  a  viola- 
tion of  good  faith;  to  call  in  the  Senate  to  deliberate,  to  advise,  and 
to  consent  to  an  act  which  it  would  be  binding  on  them  to  approve 
and  ratify,  will,  it  is  presumed,  be  deemed  too  trivial  to  satisfy 
the  extraordinary  provision  of  the  Constitution,  that  has  been 
cited.  

CCCXXIII.   Resolution  of  Congress.^ 

Resolved  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives  of  the  United 
States  of  Americay  in  Congress  assemhledy  That  the  journal  of  the 
convention  which  formed  the  present  constitution  of  the  United 
States,  now  remaining  in  the  office  of  the  Secretary  of  State,  and  all 
acts  and  proceedings  of  that  convention,  which  are  in  the  possession 
of  the  government  of  the  United  States,  be  published  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  President  of  the  United  States,  .  .  .  And  that  one  thous- 
and copies  thereof  be  printed,  of  which  one  copy  shall  be  furnished 
to  each  member  of  the  present  Congress,  and  the  residue  shall  remain 
subject  to  the  future  disposition  of  Congress. 
Approved,  March  27,  181 8. 

^  United  Sutes,  Statutes  at  Large,  III,  475. 


426     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCCXXIV.   James  Madison  to  John  Quincy  Adams.^ 

Montpellier,  Novr.  2,  i8i8. 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  22  ult:  and  enclose  such  extracts 
from  my  notes  relating  to  the  two  last  days  of  the  Convention,  as 
may  fill  the  chasm  in  the  Journals,  according  to  the  mode  in  which 
the  proceedings  are  recorded.* 

Col.  Hamilton  did  not  propose  in  the  Convention  any  plan  of  a 
Constitution.  He  had  sketched  an  outline  which  he  read  as  part 
of  a  speech;  observing  that  he  did  not  mean  it  as  a  proposition,  but 
only  to  give  a  more  correct  view  of  his  ideas. 

Mr.  Patterson  regularly  proposed  a  plan  which  was  discussed  & 
voted  on. 

I  do  not  find  the  plan  of  Mr.  Charles  Pinkney  among  my  papers. 


CCCXXV.   John  Quincy  Adams:  Memoirs.* 

[ 1 8 1 8,  November]  19th.  Major  William  Jackson,  of  Philadelphia, 
called  upon  me;  ...  As  he  was  the  Secretary  of  the  Convention  of 
1787,  which  formed  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  I  asked 
him  to  call  again  at  my  office  this  day,  to  look  at  the  journals  and 
papers  deposited  by  President  Washington  in  the  Department  of 
State,  19th  March,  1796,  and,  if  he  could,  to  explain  the  condition 
in  which  they  are.  He  did  accordingly  call,  and  looked  over  the 
papers,  but  he  had  no  recollection  of  them  which  could  remove  the 
difficulties  arising  from  their  disorderly  state,  nor  any  papers  to 
supply  the  deficiency  of  the  missing  papers.  He  told  me  that  he 
had  taken  extensive  minutes  of  the  debates  in  the  Convention,  but, 
at  the  request  of  President  Washington,  had  promised  they  should 
never  be  published  during  his  own  life,  which  he  supposed  had  been 
a  loss  to  him  of  many  thousand  dollars.  He  told  me  how  he  had 
been  chosen  Secretary  to  the  Convention,  for  which  place  W.  T. 
Franklin  and  Beckley  were  his  competitors,  and  said  that  by  far 
the  most  efficient  member  of  the  Convention  was  Mr.  Madison; 
that  Mr.  Hamilton  took  no  active  part  in  it,  and  made  only  one 
remarkable  speech.  He  also  said  Mr.  King  had  told  him  he  could 
perhaps  supply  some  papers  relating  to  the  Convention,  of  which 
he  was  a  member. 


*  G.  Hunt,  W filings  of  James  Madison^  VIII,  416. 
'Omitted  here  as  containing  nothing  new. 
» Vol.  IV,  pp.  174-175- 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXXVI  427 

CCCXXVI.    Charles  Pinckney  to  John  Quincy  Adams.^ 

^.  In  Charleston,  Dec.  30th  1818. 

On  my  return  to  this  City  as  I  promised  I  examined  carefully 
all  the  numerous  notes  &  papers  which  I  had  retained  relating  to 
the  federal  Convention  —  among  them  I  found  several  rough  draughts 
of  the  Constitution  I  proposed  to  the  Convention  —  although  they 
differed  in  some  measure  from  each  other  in  the  wording  &  arrange- 
ment of  the  articles  —  yet  they  were  all  substantially  the  same  — 
they  all  proceeded  upon  the  idea  of  throwing  out  of  View  the  attempt 
to  amend  the  existing  Confederation  (then  a  very  favourite  idea  of 
a  number)  &  proceeding  de  novo  —  of  a  Division  of  the  Powers  of 
Government  into  legislative  executive  &  judicial  &  of  making  the 
Government  to  operate  directly  upon  the  People  &  not  upon  the 

States My  Plan  was  substantially  adopted  in  the  sequel  except 

as  to  the  Senate  &  giving  more  power  to  the  Executive  than  I  intended 
—  the  force  of  Vote  which  the  small  &  middling  states  had  in  the 
Convention  prevented  our  obtaining  a  proportional  representation 
in  more  than  one  branch  &  the  great  power  given  to  the  President 
was  never  intended  to  have  been  given  to  him  while  the  Convention 
continued  in  that  patient  &  coolly  deliberative  situation  in  which 
they  had  been  for  nearly  the  whole  of  the  preceding  five  months 
of  their  session,^  nor  was  it  until  within  the  last  week  or  ten  days 
that  almost  the  whole  of  the  Executive  Department  was  altered  — 
I  can  assure  you  as  a  fact  that  for  more  than  Four  months  &  a  half 
out  of  Five  The  power  of  exclusively  making  treaties,  appointing 
public  Ministers  &  judges  of  the  supreme  Court  was  given  to  the 
Senate  after  numerous  debates  &  considerations  of  the  subject  both 
in  Committee  of  the  whole  &  in  the  house  —  this  I  not  only  aver 
but  can  prove  by  printed  Documents  in  my  possession  to  have  been 
the  case  —  &  should  I  ever  have  the  pleasure  to  see  you  &  converse 
on  this  subject  will  state  to  you  some  things  relative  to  this  business 
that  may  be  new  and  perhaps  surprising  to  you  —  the  Veil  of  secrecy 
from  the  Proceedings  of  the  Convention  being  removed  by  Congress 
&  but  very  few  of  the  members  alive  would  make  disclosures  now 
of  the  scenes  there  acted  less  improper  than  before —  With  the 
aid  of  the  journal  Sc  the  numerous  notes  &  memorandums  I  have 
preserved  should  now  be  in  my  power  to  give  a  View  of  the  almost 
insuperable  difficulties  the  Convention  had  to  encounter  &  of  the 
conflicting  opinions  of  the  members  &  I  believe  I  should  have  at- 

^  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitutioiif  I,  309-311. 

'  For  Madison's  criticism  of  this  and  the  following  statements  see  CCCLXXXII 
below. 


428      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

tempted  it  had  I  not  always  understood  Mr  Madison  intended  it 
—  he  alone  I  believed  possessed  &  retained  more  numerous  &  par- 
ticular notes  of  their  proceedings  than  myself  —  I  will  thank  you 
sir  to  do  me  the  honour  to  send  me  or  to  get  the  President  to  direct 
a  copy  of  the  Journal  of  the  Convention  to  be  sent  me  as  also  of  the 
Secret  Journals  of  Q^ngress  should  it  be  considered  not  improper 

in  me  to  make  the  request 

I  have  already  informed  you  I  have  several  rough  draughts  of 
the  G>nstitution  I  proposed  &  that  they  are  all  substantially  the 
same  differing  only  in  words  &  the  arrangement  of  the  Articles  — 
at  the  distance  of  nearly  thirty  two  Years  it  is  impossible  for  me  now 
to  say  which  of  the  4  or  5  draughts  I  have  was  the  one  but  enclosed 
I  send  you  the  one  I  believe  was  it  —  I  repeat  however  that  they  are 

substantially  the  same  differing  only  in  form  &  unessentials 

It  may  be  necessary  to  remark  that  very  soon  after  the  Convention 
met  I  changed  &  avowed  candidly  the  change  of  my  opinion  on  giv- 
ing the  power  to  Congress  to  revise  the  State  Laws  in  certain  cases 
&  in  giving  the  exclusive  Power  to  the  Senate  to  declare  War  thinking 
it  safer  to  refuse  the  first  altogether  &  to  vest  the  latter  in  Congress  — 

[Endorsed:]   Pinckney  Charles,  December  30.  181 8. 

Reed  January  6  1819. 
with  a  Copy  of  the  Dft  of  his  Constitutions  proposed  in  the  federal 
Convention.  ^— ^__ 

CCCXXVII.    RuFus  King  in  the  Senate  of  the  United  States.* 

By  the  articles  of  confederation  the  common  treasury  was  to 
be  supplied  by  the  several  states,  according  to  the  value  of  the  lands, 
with  the  houses  and  improvements  thereon,  within  the  respective 
states.  From  the  difficulty  in  making  this  valuation,  the  old  con- 
gress were  unable  to  apportion  the  requisitions  for  the  supply  of 
the  general  treasury,  and  were  obliged  to  propose  to  the  states  an 
alteration  of  the  articles  of  confederation,  by  which  the  whole  num- 
ber of  free  persons,  with  three-fifths  of  the  slaves  contained  in  the 
respective  states,  should  become  the  rule  of  such  apportionment  of 
the  taxes.  A  majority  of  the  states  approved  of  this  alteration, 
but  some  of  them  disagreed  to  the  same;  and  for  want  of  a  prac- 
ticable rule  of  apportionment,  the  whole  of  the  requisitions  of  taxes 
made  by  congress  during  the  revolutionary  war,  and  afterwards, 
up  to  the  establishment  of  the  constitution  of  the  United  States, 
were  merely  provisional,  and  subject  to  the  revision  and  correction 

*  C.  R.  King,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King,  VT,  697-700.  No  date  is 
attached  to  this  document,  but  it  is  probably  a  speech  of  March,  18 19. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXXVII  429 

as  soon  as  such  rules  should  be  adopted.  The  several  states  were 
credited  for  their  supplies,  and  charged  for  the  advances  made  to 
them  by  congress;  but  no  settlement  of  their  accounts  could  be 
made  for  the  want  of  a  rule  of  appointment,  until  the  establishment 
of  the  constitution. 

When  the  general  convention  that  formed  the  constitution  took 
this  subject  into  their  consideration,  the  whole  question  was  once 
more  examined,  and  while  it  was  agreed  that  all  contributions  to 
the  common  treasury  should  be  made  according  to  the  ability  of 
the  several  states,  to  furnish  the  same,  the  old  difficulty  recurred 
in  agreeing  upon  a  rule  whereby  such  ability  should  be  ascertained, 
there  being  no  simple  standard  by  which  the  ability  of  individuals 
to  pay  taxes,  can  be  ascertained.  A  diversity  in  the  selection  of 
taxes  has  been  deemed  requisite  to  their  equalization:  between  com- 
munities, this  difficulty  is  less  considerable,  and  although  the  rule 
of  relative  numbers  would  not  accurately  measure  the  relative  wealth 
of  nations,  in  states,  in  the  circumstances  of  the  United  States,  whose 
institutions,  laws  and  employments  are  so  much  alike,  the  rule  of 
number  is  probably  as  nearly  equal  as  any  other  simple  and  prac- 
tical rule  can  be  expected  to  be,  (though  between  the  old  and  new 
states  its  equity  is  defective,)  these  considerations,  added  to  the 
approbation  which  had  already  been  given  to  the  rule,  by  a  majority 
of  the  states,  induced  the  convention  to  agree,  that  direct  taxes  should 
be  apportioned  among  the  states,  according  to  the  whole  number 
of  free  persons,  and  three-fifths  of  the  slaves  which  they  might  respec- 
tively contain.     .  .  . 

The  present  House  of  Representatives  consists  of  181  members, 
which  are  apportioned  among  the  states  in  a  ratio  of  one  represen- 
tative for  every  thirty-five  thousand  federal  ftumbers,  which  are 
ascertained  by  adding  to  the  whole  number  of  free  persons,  three- 
fifths  of  the  slaves.  .  .  .  Thus  while  35,000  free  persons  are  requisite 
to  elect  one  representative  in  a  state  where  slavery  is  prohibited, 
25,559  free  persons  in  Virginia  may  and  do  elect  a  representative  — 
so  that  five  free  persons  in  Virginia  have  as  much  power  in  the  choice 
of  representatives  to  Congress,  and  in  the  appointment  of  presi- 
dential electors,  as  seven  free  persons  in  any  of  the  states  in  which 
slavery  does  not  exist. 

This  inequality  in  the  appointment  of  representatives  was  not 
misunderstood  at  the  adoption  of  the  constitution;  but  as  no  one 
anticipated  the  fact  that  the  whole  of  the  revenue  of  the  United 
States  would  be  derived  from  indirect  taxes  (which  cannot  be  sup- 
posed to  spread  themselves  over  the  several  states  according  to  the 
rule  for  the  apportionment  of  direct  taxes),  but  it  was  believed  that 


430      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

a  part  of  the  contribution  to  the  common  treasury  would  be  appor- 
tioned among  the  states  by  the  rule  for  the  apportionment  of  repre- 
sentatives—  the  states  in  which  slavery  is  prohibited,  ultimately, 
though  with  reluctance,  acquiesced  in  the  disproportionate  number 
of  representatives  and  electors  that  was  secured  to  the  slave-holding 
states.  The  concession  was,  at  the  time,  believed  to  be  a  great  one, 
and  has  proved  to  have  been  the  greatest  which  was  made  to  secure 
the  adoption  of  the  constitution. 

Great,  however,  as  this  concession  was,  it  was  definite,  and  its 
full  extent  was  comprehended.  It  was  a  settlement  between  the 
original  thirteen  states.  The  considerations  arising  out  of  their 
actual  condition,  their  past  connection,  and  the  obligation  which 
all  felt  to  promote  a  reformation  in  the  federal  government,  were 
peculiar  to  the  time  and  to  the  parties;  and  are  not  applicable  to 
the  new  states  which  congress  may  now  be  willing  to  admit  into  the 
Union. 

The  equality  of  rights,  which  includes  an  equality  of  burdens,  is 
a  vital  principle  in  our  theory  of  government,  and  its  jealous  preserva- 
tion is  the  best  security  of  public  and  individual  freedom;  the  depar- 
ture from  this  principle  in  the  disproportionate  power  and  influence 
allowed  to  the  slave-holding  states,  was  a  necessary  sacrifice  to  the 
establishment  of  the  constitution.  The  effect  of  this  concession 
has  been  obvious  in  the  preponderance  which  it  has  given  to  the 
slave-holding  states,  over  the  other  states.  Nevertheless,  it  is  an 
ancient  settlement,  and  faith  and  honor  stand  pledged  not  to  dis- 
turb it.  But  the  extension  of  this  disproportionate  power  to  the  new 
states  would  be  unjust  and  odious.  The  states  whose  power  would 
be  abridged,  and  whose  burdens  would  be  increased  by  the  measure, 
cannot  be  expected  to  consent  to  it;  and  we  may  hope  that  the  other 
states  are  too  magnanimous  to  insist  on  it. 


CCCXXVIIL   John  Quincy  Adams:  Memoirs.' 

[1819,  May]  13th,  IV.  30.  Four  hours  of  this  morning  again 
engaged  in  examining  the  journals  of  the  Convention  of  1787,  and 
the  sheets  of  yeas  and  nays,  which  I  compared  with  the  questions  in 
the  journals.  This  comparison  has  led  me  to  the  conclusion  that 
the  journals  ought  to  be  published  with  notes.  The  journals  were 
loosely  kept,  and  the  yeas  and  nays  only  show  the  votes  of  States, 
and  not  of  individual  members.  There  are  some  questions  on  the 
face  of  the  journals,  and  which  were  evidently  taken  by  yeas  and 
nays,  but  which  are  omitted  in  the  sheets,  and  some  on  the  sheets 

» Vol.  IV,  pp.  363-387- 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXXVIII  43 1 

of  yeas  and  nays  which  were  not  entered  upon  the  journals.  The 
journal  never  mentions  by  whom  a  motion  was  made,  but  it  often 
appears  upon  the  sheets  of  yeas  and  nays.  I  must  revise  and  super- 
intend the  publication  of  this  volume  myself.     .  .  . 

i6th.  The  remainder  of  the  day  I  was  employed  in  delving  into 
the  Convention  journals  and  papers.  They  are  to  be  printed  by 
T.  Wait,  at  Boston,  which  I  now  find  to  be  the  cause  of  some  incon- 
venience. From  the  examination  of  all  the  papers  that  I  have 
collected,  it  is  apparent  that  the  usefulness  of  the  publication  will 
depend  altogether  upon  their  arrangement.  When  the  Convention 
adjourned,  they  passed  a  resolution  that  their  journals  and  papers, 
which  had  been  kept  by  Major  William  Jackson,  their  Secretary, 
should  be  delivered  to  their  President,  Washington,  to  be  kept  by 
him,  subject  to  the  future  order  of  Congress,  after  the  Constitution 
should  go  into  operation.  Washington  kept  them  until  the  19th 
day  of  March,  1796,  when  he  deposited  them  in  the  Department  of 
State,  where  they  have  remained  till  this  time.  A  resolution  of 
Congress  of  27th  March,  i8i8,  directed  that  they,  together  with 
the  secret  journals  of  the  old  Congress,  and  their  foreign  corres- 
pondence to  the  Peace  of  1783,  except  such  parts  of  it  as  the  Presi- 
dent may  think  it  improper  now  to  publish,  should  be  printed  under 
the  direction  of  the  President.  He  devolved  this  duty  upon  me; 
but  the  books  and  papers  deposited  by  President  Washington  were 
so  imperfect,  and  in  such  disorder,  that  to  have  published  them, 
as  they  were,  would  have  given  to  the  public  a  book  useless  and  in 
many  respects  inexplicable. 

It  happened  that  General  Bloomfield,  a  member  of  Congress  from 
New  Jersey,  as  executor  of  the  will  of  David  Brearley,  one  of  the 
members  of  the  Convention,  had  come  to  the  possession  of  his  papers, 
among  which  were  several  very  important  ones  relating  to  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  Convention.  He  sent  them  all  to  me.  The  journal 
itself  was  imperfect,  and  the  journal  of  the  last  two  days  was  wanting. 
I  wrote  to  President  Madison,  and  obtained  from  him  the  means  of 
completing  it.^  There  was  a  plan  of  Constitution  mentioned  on 
the  journals  as  having  been  proposed  by  Mr.  Charles  Pinckney,  of 
South  Carolina.  I  wrote  to  him  and  obtained  a  copy  of  that.' 
With  all  these  papers  suitably  arranged,  a  correct  and  tolerably  clear 
view  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Convention  may  be  presented;  but 
there  is  one  great  and  irreparable  defect.  In  the  printed  journals 
of  the  old  Congress  the  yeas  and  nays  appear  nominally  as  well  as 


» See  CCCXXIII  above,  and  also  CCCXXIX  below. 
•  See  CCCXXVI  above. 


43  i     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

by  States,  although  the  votes  were  taken  by  States.  So  they  were 
in  the  Convention;  but  the  yeas  and  nays  show  only  the  votes  of 
the  States,  and  not  of  the  individual  members.^  Copies  of  the 
journals,  and  of  most  of  the  papers,  were  sent  last  autumn  to  Wait, 
at  Boston,  but  I  had  not  time  to  examine  and  collate  the  whole,  and 
I  did  not  dare  trust  the  task  to  any  one  else.  I  have  now  nearly 
gone  through  it,  and  have  settled  the  mode  of  publication,  but  to 
carry  it  into  effect  I  must  have  again  all  the  papers  that  have  been 
sent  to  Wait.  There  is  also  one  paper  wanting,  to  be  collected  from 
the  resolutions  scattered  over  the  journal  from  19th  June  to  23d 
July,  1787.     I  began  this  day  to  prepare  it. 

17th.  Wrote  to  Wait,  and  continued  plodding  upon  the  jour- 
nals and  papers  of  the  Convention.  Proceeded  with  the  draft  of 
the  supplementary  paper,  and  made  out  a  list  of  the  members  who 
attended.     .  .  . 

20th.  Continued  at  home  the  preparations  for  the  publication 
of  the  Convention  journals.     .  .  . 

22d.  Still  occupied  upon  the  journals  of  the  Convention,  upon 
which  I  begin  to  think  I  shall  spend  too  much  time  and  descend  too 
much  to  minutiae.     .  .  . 

26th.  Finished  the  first  draft  of  an  advertisement  to  be  pre- 
fixed to  the  publication  of  the  journals  of  the  Convention  of  1787, 
and  the  list  of  the  members.     .  .  . 

31st.  Resumed  the  task  of  arranging  the  Convention  journals 
and  papers  for  publication.  Among  the  papers  transmitted  to  me 
by  General  Bloomfield  was  a  plan  of  the  Constitution  proposed  by 
Alexander  Hamilton,  of  New  York.  At  the  time  when  the  Con- 
stitution was  offered  to  the  people,  the  principal  objections  against 
it  were  that  it  had  too  many  features  of,  or,  as  Patrick  Henry  ex- 
pressed it  with  more  energy  than  elegance,  "an  awful  squinting 
towards,"  monarchy.  This  objection  was  much  urged  during  the 
whole  Administration  of  President  Washington  and  that  of  his 
immediate  successor,  my  father.  When  Hamilton,  as  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury,  came  in  conflict  with  Jefferson,  as  Secretary  of  State, 
and  consequently  with  Virginia,  this  plan  of  his  was  often  alluded 
to  in  party  discussions  as  a  proof  of  his  propensities  to  monarchy. 
As  it  has  never  yet  been  published,  it  became  a  subject  of  extraordin- 
ary curiosity,  and  will  again  excite  some  public  attention  on  the 
publication  of  the  journals.  The  only  remarkable  facts  in  it  are, 
that  he  proposes  the  tenure  of  oflSce  of  the  Chief  Executive  Magis- 


^HamOton  stated  that  in  voting  "individuals  were  not  distinguished."    Se-^ 
CCXCV  above. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXXVIII  433 

trate  and  of  the  members  of  the  Senate  should  be  during  good  be- 
havior, which  of  course,  in  ordinary  cases,  is  a  tenure  for  life.  It 
seems  Hamilton  did  not  formally  propose  this  as  a  plan  for  discus- 
sion, but  read  it  as  part  of  a  speech.  I  wrote  this  evening  to  Mr. 
Madison  and  enquired  on  what  debate,  and  when,  the  speech  was 
delivered,  with  a  view  to  printing  the  paper  immediately  after  the 
journal  of  the  day.^     .  .  . 

[June]  2d.  After  the  journal  of  yesterday,  I  resumed  the  arrange- 
ment and  preparation  of  the  Convention  journals  for  the  press.  It 
is  truly  'in  tenui  labor'  —  the  longer  I  brood  upon  it  the  more  pro- 
tracted and  unprofitable  the  toil  becomes.  The  journals  and  papers 
were  very  loosely  and  imperfectly  kept.  They  were  no  better  than 
the  daily  minutes  from  which  the  regular  journal  ought  to  have 
been,  but  never  was,  made  out.  I  find,  on  close  inspection,  a  great 
number  of  questions,  some  of  them  important,  entered  on  the  loose 
sheets  of  yeas  and  nays,  and  not  entered  at  all  in  the  journal.  I 
intend  to  have  them  all  inserted  at  their  respective  places  on  the 
journal.  There  was  one  loose  page  of  yeas  and  nays  of  which  I 
had  been  able  to  make  nothing  until  this  morning,  when  I  found  it 
must  have  been  the  Secretary's  first  expedient  for  taking  down  the 
yeas  and  nays.  The  page  is  divided  into  thirteen  columns,  with 
the  initials  of  the  names  of  the  States,  from  New  Hampshire  to 
Georgia,  numbered  from  I  to  13,  at  the  head  of  the  page;  but  no 
space  is  left  on  the  page  either  to  enter  the  question  upon  which  the 
yeas  and  nays  were  taken,  or  the  sum  of  the  votes  on  either  side. 
There  are  five  successive  sets  of  the  yeas  and  nays  taken,  not  summed 
up,  and  with  nothing  to  indicate  upon  what  questions  they  were 
taken.  After  these,  the  New  Hampshire  column  is  divided  into 
two,  upon  which  the  sum  of  the  yeas  and  nays  on  each  question  is 
entered,  to  the  bottom  of  the  page;  and  in  eight  instances,  at  inter- 
vals, the  question  upon  which  the  question  was  taken  is  crowded  into 
the  square  of  the  Rhode  Island  column.  New  Hampshire  and 
Rhode  Island  were  the  two  States  not  then  represented,  and  their 
columns  of  course  remained  in  blank  after  the  yeas  and  nays  were 
taken  and  entered.  There  are  twenty-eight  questions,  the  result  of 
which  appears  upon  this  page;  on  the  other  side  of  which  is  the  name 
of  Mr.  Gorham,  with  seven  strokes  of  the  pen,  and  that  of  Mr. 
Rutledge,  with  one,  by  their  side.  This  is  obviously  the  noting  down 
of  the  vote  by  ballot  for  a  Chairman  to  the  committee  of  the  whole. 
The  vote  for  Rutledge  was  probably  Gorham's.  He  was  at  that  time 
President  of  the  old  Congress.     Before  Jackson,  the  Secretary,  had 

« See  CCXIXXIX  below. 


434     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

got  half  down  this  page,  he  found  the  want  of  spaces  to  enter  the 
questions  upon  which  the  votes  were  taken,  and  the  sums  of  the 
yeas,  nays,  and  divided  votes.  The  sheets  that  he  afterwards  used 
were  divided  accordingly;  but  he  entered  upon  them  only  a  part 
of  the  questions  that  he  had  already  taken  down  on  the  first  experi- 
mental page.  He  began  with  the  question  of  a  ^'  Single  Executive," 
which  is  the  seventeenth  on  the  experimental  page.  He  entered 
it  the  first,  on  his  book  of  yeas  and  nays,  and  then  resorted  again 
to  loose  sheets,  after  filling  two  of  which  he  returned  to  his  book, 
leaving  blank  pages  apparently  to  have  the  contents  of  the  loose 
sheets  copied  upon  them.  The  single  Executive  question,  being 
the  first  entered  upon  the  book,  was  the  first  with  which  I  found 
the  corresponding  question  in  the  journal  of  the  committee  of  the 
whole;  and  from  that  time  I  traced  the  questions  in  the  journals 
and  collated  them  with  the  questions  on  the  sheets  of  yeas  and  nays. 
This  left,  however,  a  number  of  questions  on  the  journal  of  the  com- 
mittee of  the  whole,  taken  before  that  of  the  single  Executive,  but 
not  noted  either  on  the  book  or  on  the  loose  sheets  of  yeas  and  nays, 
and  the  yeas  and  nays  upon  which  I  had  hitherto  been  unable  to 
trace.  This  morning  I  first  noticed  the  coincidence  of  the  ^'Single 
Executive"  question,  the  first  entered  upon  the  book  and  the  seven- 
teenth upon  the  experimental  page;  and  immediately  inferred  that 
the  sixteen  preceding  votes  entered  upon  the  page  must  have  been 
upon  the  questions  taken  in  the  committee  of  the  whole  before  that 
upon  the  single  Executive.  But  to  which  question  each  set  of  the 
yeas  and  nays  applied  was  yet  to  be  traced  out,  the  ninth  and  fif- 
teenth of  the  questions  being  the  only  two  entered  upon  the  Rhode 
Island  square.  I  traced  the  questions  on  the  journal  to  the  first 
taken  in  the  committee  of  the  whole,  apparently  by  yeas  and  nays, 
and  was  collating  it  with  the  first  vote  on  the  experimental  page  of 
yeas  and  nays,  when  the  consumption  of  time  in  this  petty  research 
brought  it  to  past  noon,  and  I  was  obliged  to  break  it  off  and  go 
to  my  office-  . 

CCCXXIX.   James  Madison  to  John  Quinct  Adams.^ 

MontpelHer  June  7,  1819. 
I  have  duly  received  your  letter  of  the  ist:  instant.  On  recurring 
to  my  papers  for  the  information  it  requests,  I  find  that  the  speech 
of  Col:  Hamilton  in  the  Convention  of  1787,  in  the  course  of  which 
he  read  a  sketch  of  a  plan  of  Government  for  the  U.  States,  was 
delivered  on  the  18th  of  June;  the  subject  of  debate  being  a  resolu- 
te. Hunt,  Writings  of  James  Madison,  VIII,  438. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXXX  435 

tion  proposed  by  Mr.  Dickinson  "that  the  Articles  of  Q)nfederation 
ought  to  be  revised  and  amended  so  as  to  render  the  Government  of 
the  U.  States  adequate  to  the  exigencies,  the  preservation,  and  the 
prosperity  of  the  Union."     

CCCXXX.   James  Madison  to  John  Quincy  Adams.' 

Montpellier  June  27,  1819 
I  return  the  list  of  yeas  and  nays  in  the  Convention  with  the 
blanks  filled  according  to  your  request,  as  far  as  I  could  do  it,  by 
tracing  the  order  of  the  yeas  and  nays  and  their  coincidences  with 
those  belonging  to  successive  questions  in  my  papers.  In  some 
instances,  the  yeas  and  nays  in  the  list,  corresponding  with  those 
on  more  questions  than  one  did  not  designate  the  particular  question 
on  which  they  were  taken;  and  of  course  did  not  enable  me  to  fill 
the  blanks.  In  other  instances,  as  you  will  find  by  the  paper  formerly 
sent  you,  there  are  questions  noted  by  me,  for  which  the  list  does 
not  contain  yeas  and  nays.  I  have  taken  the  liberty  as  you  will 
see  of  correcting  one  or  two  slips  in  the  original  list  or  in  the  copy: 
and  I  have  distinguished  the  days  on  which  the  several  votes  passed.^ 


CCCXXXI.   James  Madison  to  Judge  Roane.' 

September  2,  18 19. 
It  could  not  but  happen,  and  was  foreseen  at  the  birth  of  the 
Constitution,  that  difficulties  and  differences  of  opinion  might  occa- 
sionally arise  in  expounding  terms  and  phrases  necessarily  used  in 
such  a  charter;  more  especially  those  which  divide  legislation  between 
the  general  and  local  governments;  and  that  it  might  require  a 
regular  course  of  practice  to  liquidate  and  settle  the  meaning  of  some 
of  them.  But  it  was  anticipated,  I  believe,  by  few,  if  any,  of  the 
friends  of  the  Constitution,  that  a  rule  of  construction  would  be 
introduced  as  broad  and  pliant  as  what  has  occurred.^  And  those 
who  recollect,  and,  still  more,  those  who  shared  in  what  passed  in 
the  State  conventions,  through  which  the  people  ratified  the  Con- 
stitution, with  respect  to  the  extent  of  the  powers  vested  in  Congress, 
cannot  easily  be  persuaded  that  the  avowal  of  such  a  rule  would 
not  have  prevented  its  ratification. 

^  Library  of  Congress,  Madison  Papers. 

'  [Endorsed:]  To  J.  Q.  Adams  Secy  of  State  answering  his  of  June  i8. 

•  Letters  and  other  JFriUngs  of  James  Madison,  III,  145. 

^  Decision  of  Supreme  Court  in  McCulIoch  vs,  Maryland. 


436  RECORDS   OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCCXXXII.   James  Madison  to  Robert  Walsh.^ 

Montpellier  Novr.  27 — 18 19 
Your  letter  of  the  nth  was  duly  reed,  and  I  should  have  given 
it  a  less  tardy  answer,  but  for  a  succession  of  particular  demands  on 
my  attention,  and  a  wish  to  assist  my  recollections,  by  consulting 
both  manuscript  &  printed  sources  of  information  on  the  subjects 
of  your  enquiry.  Of  these,  however,  I  have  not  been  able  to  avail 
myself,  but  very  partially. 

As  to  the  intention  of  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  in  the  clause 
relating  to  "the  migration  and  importation  of  persons  &c"  the  best 
key  may  perhaps  be  found  in  the  case  which  produced  it.  The 
African  trade  in  slaves  had  long  been  odious  to  most  of  the  States, 
and  the  importation  of  slaves  into  them  had  been  prohibited.  Par- 
ticular States  however  continued  the  importion,  and  were  extremely 
averse  to  any  restriction  on  their  power  to  do  so.  In  the  Conven- 
tion the  former  States  were  anxious,  in  framing  a  new  constitution, 
to  insert  a  provision  for  an  immediate  and  absolute  stop  to  the  trade. 
The  latter  were  not  only  averse  to  any  interference  on  the  subject; 
but  solemnly  declared  that  their  constituents  would  never  accede 
to  a  constitution  containing  such  an  article.  Out  of  this  conflict 
grew  the  middle  measure  providing  that  Congress  should  not  inter- 
fere until  the  year  1808;  with  an  implication,  that  after  that  date, 
they  might  prohibit  the  importation  of  slaves  into  the  States  then 
existing,  &  previous  thereto,  into  the  States  not  then  existing.  Such 
was  the  tone  of  opposition  in  the  States  of  S.  Carolina  &  Georgia,  & 
such  the  desire  to  gain  their  acquiescence  in  a  prohibitory  power, 
that  on  a  question  between  the  epochs  of  1800  &  1808,  the  States  of 
N.  Hampshire,  Massatts.  &  Connecticut,  (all  the  eastern  States  in  the 
convention);  joined  in  the  vote  for  the  latter,  influenced  however  by 
the  collateral  motive  of  reconciling  those  particular  States  to  the  power 
over  commerce  &  navigation;  against  which  they  felt,  as  did  some 
other  States,  a  very  strong  repugnance.  The  earnestness  of  S.  Caro- 
lina &  Georgia  was  further  manifested  by  their  insisting  on  the 
security  in  the  V.  article,  against  any  amendment  to  the  Constitution 
affecting  the  right  reserved  to  them,  &  their  uniting  with  the  small 
states  who  insisted  on  a  like  security  for  their  equality  in  the  Senate. 
But  some  of  the  States  were  not  only  anxious  for  a  constitutional 
provision  against  the  introduction  of  Slaves.  They  had  scruples 
against  admitting  the  term  "Slaves"  into  the  Instrument.  Hence 
the  descriptive  phrase  "migration  or  importation  of  persons";  the 
term  migration  allowing  those  who  were  scrupulous  of  acknowledg- 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  303-306. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXXXII  437 

ing  expressly  a  property  in  human  beings,  to  view  imported  persons 
as  a  species  of  emigrants,  whilst  others  might  apply  the  term  to 
foreign  malefactors  sent  or  coming  into  the  country.  It  is  possible 
tho'  not  recollected,  that  some  might  have  had  an  eye  to  the  case 
of  freed  blacks,  as  well  as  malefactors. 

But  whatever  may  have  been  intended  by  the  term  "migration" 
or  the  term  "persons",  it  is  most  certain,  that  they  referred,  exclu- 
sively, to  a  migration  or  importation  from  other  countries  into  the 
U.  States;  and  not  to  a  removal,  voluntary  or  involuntary,  of  Slaves 
or  freemen,  from  one  to  another  part  of  the  U.  States.  Nothing 
appears  or  is  recollected  that  warrants  this  latter  intention.  Nothing 
in  the  proceedings  of  the  State  conventions  indicates  such  a  construc- 
tion there.*  Had  such  been  the  construction  it  is  easy  to  imagine 
the  figure  it  would  have  made  in  many  of  the  states,  among  the  objec- 
tions to  the  constitution,  and  among  the  numerous  amendments 
to  it  proposed  by  the  state  conventions,!  not  one  of  which  amend- 
ments refers  to  the  clause  in  question. 


•  •  • 


*  The  debates  of  the  Pennsylvania  convention  contain  a  speech  of  Mr.  Wilson 
(Dec.  3 —  1787)  who  had  been  a  member  of  the  general  convention,  in  which,  allud- 
ing to  the  clause  tolerating  for  a  time,  the  further  importation  of  Slaves,  he  consoles 
himself  "with  the  hope  that  in  a  few  years  it  would  be  prohibited  altogether;  observing 
that  in  the  mean  time,  the  new  "States  which  were  to  be  formed  would  be  under  the 
oontroul  of  Congress  in  this  particular^  and  slaves  would  never  be  introduced  among 
them."  In  another  speech  on  the  day  following  and  alluding  to  the  same  clause, 
his  words  are  "yet  the  lapse  of  a  few  years  &  Congress  will  have  power  to  exterminate 
slavery  within  our  borders."  How  far  the  language  of  Mr.  W.  may  have  been  accur- 
ately reported  is  not  known.  The  expressions  used,  are  more  vague  &  less  consistent 
than  would  be  readily  ascribed  to  him.  But  as  they  stand,  the  fairest  construction 
would  be,  that  he  considered  the  power  given  to  Congress,  to  arrest  the  importation 
of  Slaves  as  "laying  a  foundation  for  banishing  slavery  out  of  the  country;  &  tho 
at  a  period  more  distant  than  might  be  wished,  producing  the  same  kind  of  gradual 
change  which  was  pursued  in  Pennsylvania"  (see  his  Speech  page  90  of  the  Debates). 
By  this  "change"  after  the  example  of  Pennsylvania,  he  must  have  meant  a  change 
by  the  other  States  influenced  by  that  example,  &  yielding  to  the  general  way  of 
thinking  &  feeling,  produced  by  the  policy  of  putting  an  end  to  the  importation  of 
slaves.  He  could  not  mean  by  "banishing  slavery,"  more  than  by  a  power  "to  exter- 
minate it,"  that  Congress  were  authorized  to  do  what  is  literally  expressed.^ 

t  In  the  Convention  of  Virga.  the  opposition  to  the  Constitution  comprized  a 
number  of  the  ablest  men  in  the  State.  Among  them  were  Mr  Henry  &  Col  Mason, 
both  of  them  distinguished  by  their  acuteness,  and  anxious  to  display  unpopular 
constructions.  One  of  them  Col  Mason  had  been  a  member  of  the  general  convention, 
and  entered  freely  into  accounts  of  what  passed  within  it.  Yet  neither  of  them,  nor 
indeed  any  of  the  other  opponents,  among  the  multitude  of  their  objections,  and  far 
fetched  interpretations,  ever  hinted,  in  the  debates  on  the  9th  Sect  of  Ar.  i.  at  a  power 
given  by  it,  to  prohibit  an  interior  migration  of  any  sort.  The  meaning  of  the  Seen, 
as  levelled  against  migrations  or  importations  from  abroad  was  not  contested. 

» See  CCCXXXIII  below. 


438      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

It  falls  within  the  scope  of  your  enquiry,  to  state  the  fact,  that  there 
was  a  proposition  in  the  convention,  to  discriminate  between  the 
old  and  new  States,  by  an  article  in  the  Constitution  declaring  that 
the  aggregate  number  of  representatives  from  the  states  thereafter 
to  be  admitted,  should  never  exceed  that  of  the  states  originally 
adopting  the  Constitution.  The  proposition  happily  was  rejected. 
The  effect  of  such  a  descrimination,  is  sufficiently  evident. 


CCCXXXIII.   James  Madison  to  Robert  Walsh.^ 

Montpr.  Jany  11.  1820. 
It  is  far  from  my  purpose  to  resume  a  subject  on  which  I  have 
perhaps  already  exceeded  the  proper  limits.  But  having  spoken 
with  so  confident  a  recollection  of  the  meaning  attached  by  the  Con- 
vention to  the  term  "migration"  which  seems  to  be  an  important 
hinge  in  the  argument,  I  may  be  permitted  merely  to  remark  that 
Mr.  Wilson,*  with  the  proceedings  of  that  assembly  fresh  on  his 
mind,  distinctly  applies  the  term  to  persons  coming  to  the  U.  S. 
from  abfoady  (see  his  printed  speech  p.  59):  and  that  a  consistency 
of  the  passage  cited  from  the  Federalist  with  my  recollections,  is 
preserved  by  the  discriminating  term  "bfneficial^*  added  to  "volun- 
tary emigrations  from  Europe  to  America" 

*  See  letter  of  J.  M.  to  Mr.  Walsh  of  Novr.  27.  1819  [CCCXXXII  *bovcl 


CCCXXXIV,    Walter  Lowrie  of  Pennsylvania  in  the  United 

States  Senate.* 

January  20,  1820. 

In  the  Constitution  it  is  provided  that  "the  migration  or  impor- 
tation of  such  persons  as  any  of  the  States  now  existing  shall  think 
proper  to  admit,  shall  not  be  prohibited  by  the  Congress  prior  to 
the  year  1808,  but  a  tax,"  etc.  In  this  debate  it  seems  generally 
to  be  admitted,  by  gentlemen  on  the  opposite  side,  that  these  two 
words  are  not  synonomous;  but  what  their  meaning  is,  they  are  not 
so  well  agreed.  One  gentlemen  tells  us,  it  was  intended  to  prevent 
slaves  from  being  brought  in  by  land;  another  gentleman  says, 
it  was  intended  to  restrain  Congress  from  interfering  with  emigra- 
tion from  Europe. 

These  constructions  cannot  both  be  right.  The  gentlemen  who 
have  preceded  me  on  the  same  side,  have  advanced  a  number  of 
pertinent  arguments  to  settle  the  proper  meaning  of  these  words. 

^  Documentary  History  of  ike  Constitution^  V,  306. 

'  Annals  of  Congress^  Sixteenth  Congress,  First  Session,  I,  202-203. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXXXV  439 

I,  sir,  shall  not  repeat  them.  Indeed,  to  me,  there  is  nothing  more 
dry  and  uninteresting,  than  discussions  to  explain  the  meaning  of 
single  words.  In  the  present  case,  I  will  only  refer  to  the  authority 
of  Mr.  Madison  and  Judge  Wilson,  who  were  both  members  of  the 
Convention,  and  who  gave  their  construction  to  these  words,  long 
before  this  question  was  agitated.  Mr.  Madison  observes,  that, 
to  say  this  clause  was  intended  to  prevent  emigration  does  not 
deserve  an  answer.  And  Judge  Wilson  says,  expressly,  it  was  in- 
tended to  place  the  new  States  under  the  control  of  Congress,  as 
to  the  introduction  of  slaves.  The  opinion  of  this  latter  gentle- 
man is  entitled  to  peculiar  weight.  After  the  Convention  had  labored 
for  weeks  on  the  subject  of  representation  and  direct  taxes  —  when 
those  great  men  were  like  to  separate  without  obtaining  their  object. 
Judge  Wilson  submitted  the  provision  on  this  subject,  which  now 
stands  as  a  part  of  your  Constitution.  Sir,  there  is  no  man,  from 
any  part  of  the  nation,  who  understood  the  system  of  our  Govern- 
ment better  than  him;  not  even  excepting  Virginia,  from  whence  the 
gentleman  from  Georgia  (Mr.  Walker)  tells  us  we  have  all  our  great 
men.  

CCCXXXV.   James  Madison  to  President  Monroe.^ 

Monpr.  Feby.  10.  1820. 
I  have  been  truly  astonished  at  some  of  the  doctrines  and  declara- 
tions to  which  the  Missouri  question  has  led;  and  particularly  so 
at  the  interpretation  put  on  the  terms  *' migration  or  importation 
&c'\  Judging  from  my  own  impressions  I  shd.  deem  it  impossible 
that  the  memory  of  any  one  who  was  a  member  of  the  Genl.  Con- 
vention, could  favor  an  opinion  that  the  terms  did  not  exclusively 
refer  to  migration  &  importation,  into  the  U.  S.  Had  they  been 
understood  in  that  Body  in  the  sense  now  put  on  them,  it  is  easy  to 
conceive  the  alienation  they  would  have  there  created  in  certain 
States:  and  no  one  can  decide  better  than  yourself  the  effect  they 
would  had  in  the  State  conventions,  if  such  a  meaning  had  been 
avowed  by  the  advocates  of  the  Constitution.  If  a  suspicion  had 
existed  of  such  a  construction,  it  wd.  at  least  have  made  a  conspicu- 
ous figure  among  the  amendments  proposed  to  the  Instrument. 


CCCXXXVI.    Charles  Pinckney  in  the  House  of  Represen- 
tatives.* 

February  14,  1820. 

Among  the  reasons  which  have  induced  me  to  rise,  one  is  to  ex- 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  307. 

'  Annals  of  Congress,  Sixteenth  Congress,  First  Session  II,  1311-1318. 


440     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

press  my  surprise.  Surprise,  did  I  say?  I  ought  rather  to  have 
said,  my  extreme  astonishment,  at  the  assertion  I  heard  made  on 
both  floors  of  Congress,  that,  in  forming  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  and  particularly  that  part  of  it  which  respects  the 
representation  on  this  floor,  the  Northern  and  Eastern  States,  or, 
as  they  are  now  called,  the  non-slaveholding  States,  have  made  a 
great  concession  to  the  Southern,  in  granting  to  them  a  represen- 
tation of  three-fifths  of  their  slaves;  that  they  saw  the  concession 
was  a  very  great  and  important  one  at  the  time,  but  that  they  had 
no  idea  it  would  so  soon  have  proved  itself  of  such  consequence; 
that  it  would  so  soon  have  proved  itself  to  be  by  far  the  most  impor- 
tant concession  that  had  been  made.  They  say,  that  it  was  wrung 
from  them  by  their  affection  to  the  Union,  and  their  wish  to  preserve 
it  from  dissolution  or  disunion;  that  they  had,  for  a  long  time, 
lamented  they  had  made  it;  and  that,  if  it  was  to  do  over,  no  earthly 
consideration  should  again  tempt  them  to  agree  to  so  unequal  and 
so  ruinous  a  compromise.     •  .  . 

It  was,  sir,  for  the  purpose  of  correcting  this  great  and  unpardon- 
able error;  unpardonable,  because  it  is  a  wilful  one,  and  the  error 
of  it  is  well  known  to  the  ablest  of  those  who  make  it;  of  denying 
the  assertion,  and  proving  that  the  contrary  is  the  fact,  and  that  the 
concession,  on  that  occasion,  was  from  the  Southern  and  the  Northern 
States,  that,  among  others,  I  have  risen. 

It  is  of  the  greatest  consequence  that  the  proof  I  am  about  to 
give  should  be  laid  before  this  nation;  for,  as  the  inequality  of  repre- 
sentation is  the  great  ground  on  which  the  Northern  and  Eastern 
States  have  always,  and  now  more  particularly  and  forcibly  than 
ever,  raised  all  their  complaints  on  this  subject,  if  I  can  show  and 
prove  that  they  have  not  even  a  shadow  of  right  to  make  pretences 
or  complaints;  that  they  are  as  fully  represented  as  they  ought  to 
be;  while  we,  the  Southern  members,  are  unjustly  deprived  of  any 
representation  for  a  large  and  important  part  of  our  population, 
more  valuable  to  the  Union,  as  can  be  shown,  than  any  equal  number 
of  inhabitants  in  the  Northern  and  Eastern  States  can,  from  their 
situation,  climate,  and  productions,  possibly  be.  If  I  can  prove  this, 
I  think  I  shall  be  able  to  show  most  clearly  the  true  motives  which 
have  given  rise  to  this  measure;  to  strip  the  thin,  the  cobweb  veil 
from  it,  as  well  as  the  pretended  ones  of  religion,  humanity,  and  love 
of  liberty;  and  to  show,  to  use  the  soft  terms  the  decorum  of  debate 
oblige  me  to  use,  the  extreme  want  of  modesty  in  those  who  are 
already  as  fully  represented  here  as  they  can  be,  to  go  the  great 
lengths  they  do  in  endeavoring,  by  every  effort  in  their  power,  public 
and  private,  to  take  from  the  Southern  and  Western  States,  which 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXXXVI  44 1 

are  already  so  greatly  and  unjustly  deprived  of  an  important  part 
of  the  representation,  a  still  greater  share;  to  endeavor  to  establish 
the  first  precedent,  which  extreme  rashness  and  temerity  have  ever 
presumed,  that  Congress  has  a  right  to  touch  the  question  and  legis- 
late on  slavery;  thereby  shaking  the  property  in  them,  in  the  Southern 
and  Western  States,  to  its  very  foundation,  and  making  an  attack 
which,  if  successful,  must  convince  them  that  the  Northern  and 
Eastern  States  are  their  greatest  enemies;  that  they  are  preparing 
measures  for  them  which  even  Great  Britain  in  the  heat  of  the 
Revolutionary  War,  and  when  all  her  passions  were  roused  by  hatred 
and  revenge  to  the  highest  pitch  never  ventured  to  inflict  upon 
them.  Instead  of  a  course  like  this,  they  ought,  in  my  judgment, 
sir,  to  be  highly  pleased  with  their  present  situation;  that  they  are 
fully  represented,  while  we  have  lost  so  great  a  share  of  our  repre- 
sentation; they  ought,  sir,  to  be  highly  pleased  at  the  dexterity  and 
management  of  their  members  in  the  Convention,  who  obtained  for 
them  this  great  advantage;  and,  above  all,  with  the  moderation  and 
forbearance  with  which  the  Southern  and  Western  States  have  always 
borne  their  many  bitter  provocations  on  this  subject,  and  now  bear 
the  open,  avowed,  and,  by  many  of  the  ablest  men  among  them,  undis- 
guised attack  on  our  most  valuable  rights  and  properties.     .  .  . 

The  revolt  of  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania  accelerated  the  new 
Constitution.  On  a  motion  from  Virginia  the  Convention  met  at 
Philadelphia,  where,  as  you  will  find  from  the  Journals,  we  were 
repeatedly  in  danger  of  dissolving  without  doing  any  thing;  that 
body  being  equally  divided  as  to  large  and  small  States,  and  each 
having  a  vote,  and  the  small  States  insisting  most  pertinaciously, 
for  near  six  weeks,  on  equal  power  in  both  branches  —  nothing  but 
the  prudence  and  forbearance  of  the  large  States  saved  the  Union. 
A  compromise  was  made,  that  the  small  States  and  large  should 
be  equally  represented  in  the  Senate,  and  proportionally  in  the  House 
of  Representatives.  I  am  now  arrived  at  the  reason  for  which  I 
have,  sir,  taken  the  liberty  to  make  these  preliminary  remarks. 
For,  as  the  true  motive  for  all  this  dreadful  clamor  throughout  the 
Union,  this  serious  and  eventful  attack  on  our  most  sacred  and 
valuable  rights  and  properties,  is,  to  gain  a  fixed  ascendency  in  the 
representation  in  Congress;  and,  as  the  only  flimsy  excuse  under 
which  the  Northern  and  Eastern  States  shelter  themselves,  is,  that 
they  have  been  hardly  treated  in  the  representation  of  this  House, 
and  that  they  have  lost  the  benefit  of  the  compromise  they  pretend 
was  made,  and  which  I  shall  most  positively  deny,  and  show  that 
nothing  like  a  compromise  was  ever  intended. 

By  all  the  public  expenses  being  borne  by  indirect  taxes,  and 


442      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

not  direct,  as  was  expected;  if  I  can  show  that  all  their  pretensions 
and  claims  are  wholly  untrue  and  unfounded,  and  that  while  they  are 
fully  represented,  they  did,  by  force,  or  something  like  it,  deprive  us 
of  a  rightful  part  of  our  representation,  I  shall  then  be  able  to  take 
the  mask  from  all  their  pretended  reasons  and  excuses,  and  show 
this  unpardonable  attack,  this  monster,  in  its  true  and  uncovered 
hideousness.     .  .  . 

If,  as  no  doubt,  you  will  in  future  confine  your  imports  to  the 
amount  of  your  exports  of  native  products,  and  all  your  revenue  is 
to  be,  as  it  is  now,  raised  by  taxes  or  duties  on  your  imports,  I  ask 
you  who  pays  the  expense,  and  who,  in  fact,  enables  you  to  go  on 
with  your  Government  at  all,  and  prevents  its  wheels  from  stopping? 
I  will  show  you  by  the  papers  which  I  hold  in  my  hand.  This,  sir, 
is  your  Secretary  of  the  Treasury's  report,  made  a  few  weeks  ago, 
by  which  it  appears  that  all  the  exports  of  native  products,  from 
Maine  to  Pennsylvania,  inclusive,  for  the  last  year,  amounted  to 
only  about  eighteen  millions  of  dollars;  while  those  among  the  slave- 
holding  States,  to  the  Southward  of  Pennsylvania,  amounted  to 
thirty-two  millions  or  thereabouts,  thereby  enabling  themselves, 
or  acquiring  the  right,  to  import  double  as  much  as  the  others,  and 
furnishing  the  Treasury  with  double  the  amount  the  Northern  and 
Eastern  States  do.  And  here  let  me  ask,  from  whence  do  these 
exports  arise?  By  whose  hands  are  they  made?  I  answer,  entirely 
by  the  slaves;  and  yet  these  valuable  inhabitants,  without  whom 
your  very  government  could  not  go  on,  and  the  labor  of  two  or 
three  of  whom  in  the  Southern  States  is  more  valuable  to  it  than  the 
labor  of  five  of  their  inhabitants  in  the  Eastern  States,  the  States 
owning  and  possessing  them  are  denied  a  representation  but  for 
three-fifths  on  this  floor,  while  the  whole  of  the  comparatively  un- 
productive inhabitants  of  the  Northern  and  Eastern  States  are  fully 
represented  here.  Is  it  just  —  is  it  equal?  And  yet  they  have  the 
modesty  to  complain  of  the  representation,  as  unjust  and  unequal; 
and  that  they  have  not  the  return  made  them  that  they  expected, 
by  taxing  the  slaves,  and  making  them  bear  a  proportion  of  the 
public  burdens.     .  .  . 

Before  I  proceed  to  the  other  parts  of  this  question,  I  have  thus 
endeavored  to  give  a  new  view  of  the  subject  of  representation  in 
this  House;  to  show  how  much  more  the  Eastern  and  Northern 
States  are  represented  than  the  Southern  and  Western;     .  .  . 

The  supporters  of  the  amendment  contend  that  Congress  have 
the  right  to  insist  on  the  prevention  of  involuntary  servitude  in  Mis- 
souri; and  found  the  right  on  the  ninth  section  of  the  first  article, 
which  *say8,  ''the  migration  or  importation  of  such  persons  as  the 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXXXVI  443 

States  now  existing  may  think  proper  to  admit,  shall  not  be  prohibi- 
ted by  the  Congress  prior  to  the  year  1808,  but  a  tax  or  duty  may  be 
imposed  on  such  importation  not  exceeding  ten  dollars.'^ 

In  considering  this  article,  I  will  detail,  as  far  as  at  this  distant 
period  is  possible,  what  was  the  intention  of  the  Convention  that 
formed  the  Constitution  in  this  article.  The  intention  was,  to  give 
Congress  a  power,  after  the  year  1808,  to  prevent  the  importation 
of  slaves  either  by  land  or  water  from  other  countries.  The  word 
import^  includes  both,  and  applies  wholly  to  slaves.  Without  this 
limitation,  Congress  might  have  stopped  it  sooner  under  their  gen- 
eral power  to  regulate  commerce;  and  it  was  an  agreed  point,  a 
solemnly  understood  compact,  that,  on  the  Southern  States  con- 
senting to  shut  their  ports  against  the  importation  of  Africans,  no 
power  was  to  be  delegated  to  Congress,  nor  were  they  ever  to  be 
authorized  to  touch  the  question  of  slavery;  that  the  property  of 
the  Southern  States  in  slaves  was  to  be  as  sacredly  preserved,  and 
protected  to  them,  as  that  of  land,  or  any  other  kind  of  property 
in  the  Eastern  States  were  to  be  to  their  citizens. 

The  term,  or  word,  migration,  applies  wholly  to  free  whites;  in  its 
Constitutional  sense,  as  intended  by  the  Convention,  it  means  ''vol- 
untary change  of  servitude",  from  one  country  to  another.  The 
reasons  of  its  being  adopted  and  used  in  the  Constitution,  as  far  as 
I  can  recollect,  were  these;  that  the  Constitution  being  a  frame  of 
government,  consisting  wholly  of  delegated  powers,  all  power,  not 
expressly  delegated,  being  reserved  to  the  people  or  the  States,  it 
was  supposed,  that,  without  some  express  grant  to  them  of  power 
on  the  subject,  Congress  would  not  be  authorized  ever  to  touch  the 
question  of  migration  hither,  or  emigration  to  this  country,  however 
pressing  or  urgent  the  necessity  for  such  a  measure  might  be;  that 
they  could  derive  no  such  power  from  the  usages  of  nations,  or  even 
the  laws  of  war;  that  the  latter  would  only  enable  them  to  make 
prisoners  of  alien  enemies,  which  would  not  be  sufficient,  as  spies 
or  other  dangerous  emigrants,  who  were  not  alien  enemies,  might 
enter  the  country  for  treasonable  purposes,  and  do  great  injury; 
that,  as  all  governments  possessed  this  power,  it  was  necessary  to 
give  it  to  our  own,  which  could  alone  exercise  it,  and  where,  on  other 
and  much  greater  points,  we  had  placed  unlimited  confidence;  it 
was,  therefore,  agreed  that,  in  the  same  article,  the  word  migration 
should  be  placed;  and  that,  from  the  year  1808,  Congress  should 
possess  the  complete  power  to  stop  either  or  both,  as  they  might 
suppose  the  public  interest  required;  the  article,  therefore,  is  a 
negative  pregnanty  restraining  for  twenty  years,  and  giving  the  power 
after. 


444     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

The  reasons  for  restraining  the  power  to  prevent  migration 
hither  for  twenty  years,  were,  to  the  best  of  my  recollection,  these: 
That,  as  at  this  time,  we  had  immense  and  almost  immeasurable 
territory,  peopled  by  not  more  than  two  millions  and  a  half  of  inhabi- 
tants, it  was  of  very  great  consequence  to  encourage  the  emigration 
of  able,  skilful,  and  industrious  Europeans.  The  wise  conduct  of 
William  Penn,  and  the  unexampled  growth  of  Pennsylvania,  were 
cited.  It  was  said,  that  the  portals  of  the  only  temple  of  true  free- 
dom now  existing  on  earth  should  be  thrown  open  to  all  mankind; 
that  all  foreigners  of  industrious  habits  should  be  welcome,  and  none 
more  so  than  men  of  science,  and  such  as  may  bring  to  us  arts  we 
are  unacquainted  with,  or  the  means  of  perfecting  those  in  which 
we  are  not  yet  sufficiently  skilled  —  capitalists  whose  wealth  may  add 
to  our  commerce  or  domestic  improvements;  let  the  door  be  ever 
and  most  affectionately  open  to  illustrious  exiles  and  sufferers  in  the 
cause  of  liberty;  in  short,  open  it  liberally  to  science,  to  merit,  and 
talents,  wherever  found,  and  receive  and  make  them  your  own. 
That  the  safest  mode  would  be  to  pursue  the  course  for  twenty 
years,  and  not,  before  that  period,  put  it  at  all  into  the  power  of 
Congress  to  shut  it;  that,  by  that  time,  the  Union  would  be  so 
settled,  and  our  population  would  be  so  much  increased,  we  could 
proceed  on  our  own  stock,  without  the  farther  accession  of  foreigners; 
that,  as  Congress  were  to  be  prohibited  from  stopping  the  importa- 
tion of  slaves  to  settle  the  Southern  States,  as  no  obstacle  was  to  be 
thrown  in  the  way  of  their  increase  and  settlement  for  that  period, 
let  it  be  so  with  the  Northern  and  Eastern,  to  which,  particularly 
New  York  and  Philadelphia,  it  was  expected  most  of  the  emigrants 
would  go  from  Europe:  and  it  so  happened,  for,  previous  to  the  year 
1808,  more  than  double  as  many  Europeans  emigrated  to  these 
States,  as  of  Africans  were  imported  into  the  Southern  States. 

...  I  will  only  mention  here,  as  it  is  perfectly  within  my  recol- 
lection, that  the  power  was  given  to  Congress  to  regulate  the  com- 
merce by  water  between  the  States,  and  it  being  feared,  by  the 
Southern,  that  the  Eastern  would,  whenever  they  could,  do  so  to 
the  disadvantage  of  the  Southern  States,  you  will  find,  in  the  6th 
section  of  the  ist  article,  Congress  are  prevented  from  taxing  exports, 
or  giving  preference  to  the  ports  of  one  State  over  another,  or  oblig- 
ing vessels  bound  from  one  State  to  clear,  enter,  or  pay  duties  in 
another;  which  restrictions,  more  clearly  than  any  thing  else,  prove 
what  the  power  to  regulate  commerce  among  the  several  States 
means. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXXXVII  445 

CCCXXXVII.  James  Madison  to  John  Quincy  Aoams.^ 

Montpr.  June  13  1820 

I  have  reed.  &  return  m/ thanks  for  your  polite  favor  accompany- 
ing the  Copy  of  the  printed  Journal  of  the  Federal  Convention  trans- 
mitted in  pursuance  of  a  late  Resolution  of  Congress. 

In  turning  over  a  few  pages  of  the  Journal,  which  is  all  I  have 
done  a  casual  glance  caught  a  passage  which  erroneously  prefixes 
my  name,  to  ye  proposition  made  on  the  7th.  day  of  Sepr.  for  mak- 
ing a  Council  of  six  members  a  part  of  the  Executive  branch  of  the 
Govt.  The  proposition  was  made  by  Col:  George  Mason  one  of 
the  Virga.  delegates,  &,  seconded  by  Dr.  Franklin.  I  cannot  be  mis- 
taken in  the  fact:  For  besides  my  recollection  which  is  sufficiently 
distinct  on  the  subject,  my  notes  contain  the  observations  of  each 
in  support  of  the  proposition.* 

As  the  original  journal  according  to  my  extract  from  it,  does 
not  name  the  mover  of  ye  propn  the  error,  I  presume  must  have  had 
its  source  in  some  of  the  extrinsic  communications  to  you;  unless 
indeed  it  was  found  in  some  of  the  separate  papers  of  the  Secretary 
of  the  Convention:  or  is  to  be  ascribed  to  a  copying  pen.  The 
degree  of  symphony  in  the  two  names  Madison  &  Mason  may  pos- 
sibly have  contributed  to  the  substitution  of  the  one  for  the  other. 

This  explanation  having  a  reference  to  others  as  well  as  myself, 
I  have  thought  it  wd.  be  neither  improper  nor  unacceptable. 


CCCXXXVIII.    Charles  Pinckney  in  the  House  of  Represen- 
tatives.* 

February  13,  1821. 

Mr.  Speaker,  there  are  many  reasons  which  make  it  incumbent 
on  me  not  to  suffer  this  question,  which  I  consider  the  final  one  on 
the  acceptance  or  rejection  of  the  constitution  of  Missouri,  and  her 
admission  into  the  Union,  to  pass  without  presenting  my  views  on 
the  subject  to  the  House.  These  reasons  are,  the  importance  of  the 
question  itself,  the  great  interest  the  State  I  represent,  in  part,  has 
in  it,  and,  not  among  the  least,  the  frequent  calls  made  upon  me  in 
this  House,  and  references  in  the  other,  as  to  the  true  meaning  of 
the  second  section  of  the  fourth  article  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  which  it  appears,  from  the  Journal  of  the  General 
Convention  that  formed  the  Constitution,  I  first  proposed  in  that 
body.     .  .  . 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  307-308 

*  Crossed  out:  "The  only  part  I  bore  in  it,  was  merely  that  of  promoting  a  fair 
consideration  of  the  object  of  my  colleague." 

*  Annals  of  Congress^  Sixteenth  Congress,  Second  Session,  pp.  11 29,  1134. 


446     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

I  say  it  is  not,  in  my  judgment,  unconstitutional,  for  the  following 
reasons,  in  which  I  mean  briefly  to  answer  to  the  call  that  has  been 
made  upon  me:  It  appears  by  the  Journal  of  the  G>nvention  that 
formed  the  Constitution  of  the  United  Sutes,  that  I  was  the  only 
member  of  that  body  that  ever  submitted  the  plan  of  a  constitu- 
tion completely  drawn  in  articles  and  sections;  and  this  having  been 
done  at  a  very  early  state  of  their  proceedings,  the  article  on  which 
now  so  much  stress  is  laid,  and  on  the  meaning  of  which  the  whole 
of  this  question  is  made  to  turn,  and  which  is  in  these  words:  ''the 
citizens  of  each  State  shall  be  entitled  to  all  privileges  and  immuni- 
ties in  every  State,''  having  been  made  by  me,  it  is  supposed  I  must 
know,  or  perfectly  recollect,  what  I  meant  by  it.  In  answer,  I  say, 
that,  at  the  time  I  drew  that  constitution,  I  perfectly  knew  that  there 
did  not  then  exist  such  a  thing  in  the  Union  as  a  black  or  colored 
citizen,  nor  could  I  then  have  conceived  it  possible  such  a  thing  could 
have  ever  existed  in  it;  nor,  notwithstanding  all  that  has  been  said 
on  the  subject,  do  I  now  believe  one  does  exist  in  it. 


CCCXXXIX.   James  Madison  to  Joseph  Gales.^ 

Montpr.  Aug.  26.  1821 
I  thank  you  for  your  friendly  letter  of  the  20th.  inclosing  an 
extract  from  notes  by  Judge  Yates,  of  debates  in  the  Convention  of 
1787,  as  published  in  a  N.  Y.  paper.*    The  letter  did  not  come  to 
hand  till  yesterday. 

If  the  extract  be  a  fair  sample,  the  work  about  to  be  published 
will  not  have  the  value  claimed  for  it.  Who  can  believe  that  so 
palpable  a  mistatement  was  made  on  the  floor  of  the  Convention, 
as  that  the  several  States  were  political  Societies,  varying  from  the 
lowest  Corporation  to  the  highest  Sovereign;  or  that  the  States  had 
vested  all  the  essential  rights  of  sovereignty  in  the  Old  Congress? 
This  intrinsic  evidence  alone  ought  to  satisfy  every  candid  reader 
of  the  extreme  incorrectness  of  the  passage  in  question.  As  to  the 
remark  that  the  States  ought  to  be  under  the  controul  of  the  Genl. 
Govt,  at  least  as  much  as  they  formerly  were  under  the  King  &  B. 
parliament,  it  amounts  as  it  stands  when  taken  in  its  presumable 
meaning,  to  nothing  more  than  what  actually  makes  a  part  of  the 
Constitution;  the  powers  of  Congs.  being  much  greater,  especially 
on  the  great  points  of  taxation  &  trade  than  the  B.  Legislature  were 
ever  permitted  to  exercise. 

*  Commercial  Adverticer,  Aug:  18,  1881 
*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  308-309. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXL  447 

Whatever  may  have  been  the  personal  worth  of  the  2  delegates 
from  whom  the  materials  in  this  case  were  derived,  it  cannot  be 
unknown  that  they  represented  the  strong  prejudices  in  N.  Y.  agst. 
the  object  of  the  Convention  which  was  among  other  things  to  take 
from  that  State  the  important  power  over  its  commerce  and  that 
they  manifested,  untill  they  withdrew  from  the  Convention,  the 
strongest  feelings  of  dissatisfaction  agst.  the  contemplated  change 
in  the  federal  system  and  as  may  be  supposed,  agst.  those  most 
active  in  promoting  it.  Besides  misapprehensions  of  the  ear  there- 
fore, the  attention  of  the  note  taker  wd  naturally  be  warped,  as  far 
at  least  as,  an  upright  mind  could  be  warped,  to  an  unfavorable 
understanding  of  what  was  said  in  opposition  to  the  prejudices  felt. 


CCCXL.   James  NLidison  to  Thomas  Ritchie.^ 

Montpelr.  Sepr.  15  1821. 
(Confidential) 

I  have  reed,  yours  of  the  8th.  instant  on  the  subject  of  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  convention  of  1787. 

It  is  true  as  the  public  has  been  led  to  understand,  that  I  possess 
materials  for  a  pretty  ample  view  of  what  passed  in  that  Assembly. 
It  is  true  also  that  it  has  not  been  my  intention  that  they  should 
for  ever  remain  under  the  veil  of  secresy.  Of  the  time  when  it  might 
be  not  improper  for  them  to  see  the  light,  I  had  formed  no  parti- 
cular determination.  In  general  it  had  appeared  to  me  that  it  might 
be  best  to  let  the  work  be  a  posthumous  one;  or  at  least  that  its  pub- 
lication should  be  delayed  till  the  Constitution  should  be  well  settled 
by  practice,  &  till  a  knowledge  of  the  controversial  part  of  the  pro- 
ceedings of  its  framers  could  be  turned  to  no  improper  account.  Deli- 
cacy also  seemed  to  require  some  respect  to  the  rule  by  which  the 
Convention  ^'prohibited  a  promulgation  without  leave  of  what  was 
spoken  in  it;"  so  long  as  the  policy  of  that  rule  could  be  regarded  as 
in  any  degree  unexpired.  As  a  guide  in  expounding  and  applying 
the  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  the  debates  and  incidental  deci- 
sions of  the  Convention  can  have  no  authoritative  character.  How- 
ever desirable  it  be  that  they  should  be  preserved  as  a  gratification 
to  the  laudable  curiosity  felt  by  every  people  to  trace  the  origin  and 
progress  of  their  political  Insitutions,  &  as  a  source  parhaps  of  some 
lights  on  the  Science  of  Govt,  the  legitimate  meaning  of  the  Instru- 
ment must  be  derived  from  the  text  itself;  or  if  a  key  is  to  be  sought 
elsewhere,  it  must  be  not  in  the  opinions  or  intentions  of  the  Body 
which  planned  &  proposed  the  Constitution,  but  in  the  sense  attached 

^  Docununtary  History  of  ike  Constiiuiion,  V,  310-312. 


448     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

to  it  by  the  people  in  their  respective  State  G>nvention8  where  it 
reed,  all  the  authority  which  it  possesses. 

Such  being  the  course  of  my  reflections  I  have  suffered  a  concur- 
rence &  continuance  of  particular  inconveniences  for  the  time  past, 
to  prevent  me  from  giving  to  my  notes  the  fair  &  full  preparation 
due  to  the  subject  of  them.  Of  late,  being  aware  of  the  growing 
hazards  of  postponement,  I  have  taken  the  incipient  steps  for  exe- 
cuting the  task;  and  the  expediency  of  not  risking  an  ultimate  fail- 
ure is  suggested  by  the  Albany  publication  from  the  notes  of  a  N. 
York  member  of  the  Convention.  I  have  not  seen  more  of  the  vol- 
ume than  has  been  extracted  into  the  newspapers,  but  it  may  be 
inferred  from  these  samples,  that  it  not  only  a  very  mutilated  ^  but 
a  very  erroneous  edition  of  the  matter  to  which  it  relates.  There 
must  be  an  entire  omission  also  of  the  proceedings  of  the  latter 
period  of  the  Session  from  which  Mr.  Yates  &  Mr.  Lansing  withdrew 
in  the  temper  manifested  by  their  report  to  their  Constituents:  the 
period  during  which  the  variant  &  variable  opinions,  converged  & 
centered  in  the  modifications  seen  in  the  final  act  of  the  Body. 

It  is  my  purpose  now  to  devote  a  portion  of  my  time  to  an  exact 
digest  of  the  voluminous  materials  in  my  hands.  How  long  a  time 
it  will  require,  under  the  interruptions  &  avocations  which  are  prob- 
able I  can  not  easily  conjecture.  Not  a  little  will  be  necessary  for 
the  mere  labour  of  making  fair  transcripts.  By  the  time  I  get  the 
whole  into  a  due  form  for  preservation,  I  shall  be  better 'able  to 
decide  on  the  question  of  publication. 


CCCXLI.    James  Madison  to  J.  G.  Jackson.* 

Montpr.  Deer.  27-1821. 

With  respect  to  that  portion  of  the  mass,  which  contains  the 
voluminous  proceedings  of  the  Convention,  it  has  always  been  my 
intention  that  they  should  some  day  or  other  see  the  light.  But  I 
have  always  felt  at  the  same  time  the  delicacy  attending  such  a  use 
of  them;  especially  at  an  early  season.  In  general  I  have  leaned  to 
the  expediency  of  letting  the  publication  be  a  posthumous  one. 
The  result  of  my  latest  reflections  on  the  subject,  I  cannot  more 
conveniently  explain,  than  by  the  inclosed  extract  from  a  letter* 
confidentially  written  since  the  appearance  of  the  proceedings  of  the 
Convention  as  taken  from  the  Notes  of  Chf :  Juste  Yates. 

Of  this  work  I  have  not  yet  seen  a  copy.     From  the  scraps  thrown 

•Sec  letter  of  the  of  Scpr.  1821.  to  Ths.  Ritchie  [CCCXL). 

*  Crossed  out  "deficient". 

^DocumaUary  History  of  the  ConstihUiony  V,  312-315. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXLI  449 

into  the  Newspapers  I  cannot  doubt  that  the  prejudices  of  the  author 
guided  his  pen,  and  that  he  has  committed  egregious  errors  at  least, 
in  relation  to  others  as  well  as  to  myself. 

That  most  of  us  carried  into  the  Convention  a  profound  impres- 
sion produced  by  the  experienced  inadequacy  of  the  old  Confedera- 
tion, and  by  the  monitory  examples  of  all  similar  ones  ancient  & 
modern,  as  to  the  necessity  of  binding  the  States  together  by  a 
strong  Constitution,  is  certain.  The  necessity  of  such  a  Constitu- 
tion was  enforced  by  the  gross  and  disreputable  inequalities  which 
had  been  prominent  in  the  internal  administrations  of  most  of  the 
States.  Nor  was  The  recent  &  alarming  insurrection  headed  by 
Shays,  in  Massachusetts  without  a  very  sensible  effect  on  the  pub: 
mind.  Such  indeed  was  the  aspect  of  things,  that  in  the  eyes  of  all 
the  best  friends  of  liberty  a  crisis  had  arrived  which  was  to  decide 
whether  the  Amn.  Experiment  was  to  be  a  blessing  to  the  world,  or 
to  blast  for  ever  the  hopes  which  the  republican  cause  had  enspired; 
and  what  is  not  to  be  overlooked  the  disposition  to  give  to  a  new 
System  all  the  vigour  consistent  with  Republican  principles,  was  not 
a  little  stimulated  by  a  backwardness  in  some  quarters  towards  a 
Convention  for  the  purpose,  which  was  ascribed  to  a  secret  dislike 
to  popular  Govt,  and  a  hope  that  delay  would  bring  it  more  into  dis- 
grace, and  pave  the  way  for  a  form  of  Govt,  more  congenial  with 
Monarchical  or  aristocratical  predilections. 

This  view  of  the  crisis  made  it  natural  for  many  in  the  Conven- 
tion to  lean  more  than  was  perhaps  in  strictness  warranted  by  a 
proper  distinction  between  causes  temporary  as  some  of  them  doubt- 
less were,  and  causes  permanently  inherent  in  popular  frames  of 
Govt.  It  is  true  also,  as  has  been  sometimes  suggested  that  in  the 
course  of  discussions  in  the  Convention,  where  so  much  depended 
on  compromise,  the  patrons  of  different  opinions  often  set  out  on 
negociating  grounds  more  remote  from  each  other,  than,  the  real 
opinions  of  either  were  from  the  point  at  which  they  finally  met. 

For  myself,  having  from  the  first  moment  of  maturing  a  political 
opinion,  down  to  the  present  one,  never  ceased  to  be  a  votary  of 
the  principle  of  self-Govt:  I  was  among  those  most  anxious  to  rescue 
it  from  the  danger  which  seemed  to  threaten  it;  and  with  that  view 
was  willing  to  give  to  a  Govt,  resting  on  that  foundation,  as  much 
energy  as  would  ensure  the  requisite  stability  and  efficacy.  It  is 
possible  that  in  some  instances  this  consideration  may  have  been 
allowed  a  weight  greater  than  subsequent  reflection  within  the  Con- 
vention, or  the  actual  operation  of  the  Govt,  would  sanction.  It 
may  be  remarked  also  that  it  sometimes  happened  that  opinions  as 
to  a  particular  modification  or  a  particular  power  of  the  Govt,  had 


450     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

a  conditional  reference  to  others  which  combined  therewith  would 
vary  the  character  of  the  whole. 

But  whatever  might  have  been  the  opinions  entertained  in  form- 
ing the  Constitution,  it  was  the  duty  of  all  to  support  it  in  its  true 
meaning  as  understood  by  the  Nation  at  the  time  of  its  ratification. 
No  one  felt  this  obligation  more  than  I  have  done;  and  there  are 
few  perhaps  whose  ultimate  &  deliberate  opinions  on  the  merits  of 
the  Constitution,  accord  in  a  greater  degree  with  that  obligation. 


CCCXLII.   James  Madison:  Note  to  his  Speech  on  the  Right 

OF  Suffrage.* 

Note  *  to  the  Speech  of  J.  M.  on  the  day  of 

These  observations  (in  the  speech  of  J.  M.  See  debates  in  the 
Convention  of  1787.  on  the  day  of  )  do  not  convey  the 

speaker's  more  full  &  matured  view  of  the  subject,  which  is  sub- 
joined.    He  felt  too  much  at  the  time  the  example  of  Virginia 

The  right  of  suffrage  is  a  fundamental  Article  in  Republican 
Constitutions.  The  regulation  of  it  is,  at  the  same  time,  a  task  of 
peculiar  delicacy.  Allow  the  right  exclusively  to  property,  and  the 
rights  of  persons  may  be  oppressed.  The  feudal  polity  alone 
sufficiently  proves  it.  Extend  it  equally  to  all,  and  the  rights  of 
property  or  the  claims  of  justice  may  be  overruled  by  a  majority 
without  property,  or  interested  in  measures  of  injustice.  Of  this 
abundant  proof  is  afforded  by  other  popular  Govts,  and  is  not  with- 
out examples  in  our  own,  particularly  in  the  laws  impairing  the  obli- 
gation of  contracts. 

In  civilized  communities,  property  as  well  as  personal  rights 
is  an  essential  object  of  the  laws,  which  encourage  industry  by  secur- 
ing the  enjoyment  of  its  fruits:  that  industry  from  which  property 
results,  &  that  enjoyment  which  consists  not  merely  in  its  immediate 
use,  but  in  its  posthumous  destination  to  objects  of  choice  and  of 
kindred  affection. 

In  a  just  &  a  free.  Government,  therefore,  the  rights  both  of 
property  &  of  persons  ought  to  be  effectually  guarded.  Will  the 
former  be  so  in  case  of  a  universal  &  equal  suffrage?  Will  the  latter 
be  so  in  case  of  a  suffrage  confined  to  the  holders  of  property? 

As  the  holders  of  property  have  at  stake  all  the  other  rights 
common  to  those  without  property,  they  may  be  the  more  restrained 
from  infringing,  as  well  as  the  less  tempted  to  infringe  the  rights  of 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  ConstihUiony  V.  440-449. 

'  This  note  seems  to  have  been  written  about  182 1,  when  Nfadiaon  was  pre- 
paring his  Debates  for  publication. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXLII  45 1 

the  latter.  It  is  nevertheless  certain,  that  there  are  various  ways  in 
which  the  rich  may  oppress  the  poor;  in  which  property  may  oppress 
liberty;  and  that  the  world  is  filled  with  examples.  It  is  necessary 
that  the  poor  should  have  a  defence  against  the  danger. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  danger  to  the  holders  of  property  can  not 
be  disguised,  if  they  be  undefended  against  a  majority  without 
property.  Bodies  of  men  are  not  less  swayed  by  interest  than  indi- 
viduals, and  are  less  controlled  by  the  dread  of  reproach  and  the 
other  motives  felt  by  individuals.  Hence  the  liability  of  the  rights 
of  property,  and  of  the  impartiality  of  laws  affecting  it,  to  be  vio- 
lated by  Legislative  majorities  having  an  interest  real  or  supposed 
in  the  injustice:  Hence  agrarian  laws,  and  other  leveling  schemes: 
Hence  the  cancelling  or  evading  of  debts,  and  other  violations  of 
contracts.  We  must  not  shut  our  eyes  to  the  nature  of  man,  nor 
to  the  light  of  experience.  Who  would  rely  on  a  fair  decision  from 
three  individuals  if  two  had  an  interest  in  the  case  opposed  to  the 
rights  of  the  third?  Make  the  number  as  great  as  you  please,  the 
impartiality  will  not  be  increased,  nor  any  further  security  against 
justice  be  obtained,  than  what  may  result  from  the  greater  difficulty 
of  uniting  the  wills  of  a  greater  number. 

In  all  Govts,  there  is  a  power  which  is  capable  of  oppressive 
exercise.  In  Monarchies  and  Aristocracies  oppression  proceeds  from 
a  want  of  sympathy  &  responsibility  in  the  Govt,  towards  the  peo- 
ple. In  popular  Governments  the  danger  lies  in  an  undue  sympathy 
among  individuals  composing  a  majority,  and  a  want  of  respon- 
sibility in  the  majority  to  the  minority.  The  characteristic  excel- 
lence of  the  political  System  of  the  U.  S.  arises  from  a  distribution 
and  organization  of  its  powers,  which  at  the  same  time  that  they 
secure  the  dependence  of  the  Govt,  on  the  will  of  the  nation,  provides 
better  guards  than  are  found  in  any  other  popular  Govt,  against 
interested  combinations  of  a  Majority  against  the  rights  of  a  Minority. 

The  U.  States  have  a  precious  advantage  also  in  the  actual 
distribution  of  property  particularly  the  landed  property;  and  in 
the  universal  hope  of  acquiring  property.  This  latter  peculiarity  is 
among  the  happiest  contrasts  in  their  situation  to  that  of  the  old 
world,  where  no  anticipated  change  in  this  respect,  can  generally 
inspire  a  like  sympathy  with  the  rights  of  property.  There  may  be 
at  present,  a  Majority  of  the  Nation,  who  are  even  freeholders,  or 
the  heirs,  or  aspirants  to  Freeholds.  And  the  day  may  not  be  very 
near  when  such  will  cease  to  make  up  a  Majority  of  the  community. 
But  they  cannot  always  so  continue.  With  every  admissible  sub- 
division of  the  Arable  lands,  a  populousness  not  greater  than  that  of 
England  or  France,  will  reduce  the  holders  to  a  Minority.    And 


45  2     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

whenever  the  Majority  shall  be  without  landed  or  other  equivalent 
property  and  without  the  means  or  hope  of  acquiring  it,  what  is  to 
secure  the  rights  of  property  agst.  the  danger  from  an  equality  & 
universality  of  suffrage,  vesting  compleat  power  over  property  in 
hands  without  a  share  in  it:  not  to  speak  of  a  danger  in  the  mean  time 
from  a  dependence  of  an  increasing  number  on  the  wealth  of  a  few? 
In  other  Countries  this  dependence  results  in  some  from  the  relations 
between  Landlords  8c  Tenants  in  other  both  from  that  source,  &, 
from  the  relations  between  wealthy  capitalists  8c  indigent  labourers. 
In  the  U.  S.  the  occurrence  must  happen  from  the  last  source;  from 
the  connection  between  the  great  Capitalists  in  Manufactures  & 
Commerce  and  the  members  employed  by  them.  Nor  will  accumu- 
lations of  Capital  for  a  certain  time  be  precluded  by  our  laws  of 
descent  8c  of  distribution;  such  being  the  enterprize  inspired  by  free 
Institutions,  that  great  wealth  in  the  hands  of  individuals  and  asso- 
ciations, may  not  be  unfrequent.  But  it  may  be  observed,  that 
the  opportunities,  may  be  diminished,  and  the  permanency  defeated 
by  the  equalizing  tendency  of  the  laws. 

No  free  Country  has  ever  been  without  parties,  which  are  a 
natural  offspring  of  Freedom.  An  obvious  and  permanent  division 
of  every  people  is  into  the  owners  of  the  Soil,  and  the  other  inhabi- 
tants. In  a  certain  sense  the  Country  may  be  said  to  belong  to  the 
former.  If  each  landholder  has  an  exclusive  property  in  his  share, 
the  Body  of  Landholders  have  an  exclusive  property  in  the  whole. 
As  the  Soil  becomes  subdivided,  and  actually  cultivated  by  the 
owners,  this  view  of  the  subject  derives  force  from  the  principle  of 
natural  law,  which  vests  in  individuals  an  exclusive  right  to  the  por- 
tions of  ground  with  which  he  has  incorporated  his  labour  8c  improve- 
ments. Whatever  may  be  the  rights  of  others  derived  from  their 
birth  in  the  Country,  from  their  interest  in  the  high  ways  8c  other 
parcels  left  open  for  common  use  as  well,  as  in  the  national  Edifices 
and  monuments;  from  their  share  in  the  public  defence,  and  from 
their  concurrent  support  of  the  Govt.,  it  would  seem  unreasonable 
to  extend  the  right  so  "far  as  to  give  them  when  become  the  majority, 
a  power  of  Legislation  over  the  landed  property  without  the  consent 
of  the  proprietors.  Some  barrier  agst  the  invasion  of  their  rights 
would  not  be  out  of  place  in  a  just  8c  provident  System  of  Govt. 
The  principle  of  such  an  arrangement  has  prevailed  in  all  Govts. 
where  peculiar  privileges  or  interests  held  by  a  part  were  to  be 
secured  agst.  violation,  and  in  the  various  associations  where  pecun- 
iary or  other  property  forms  the  stake.  In  the  former  case  a 
defensive  right  has  been  allowed;  and  if  the  arrangement  be  wrong, 
it  is  not  in  the  defense,  but  in  the  kind  of  privilege  to  be  defended. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXLII  453 

In  the  latter  case,  the  shares  of  suffrage  allotted  to  individuals, 
have  been  with  acknowledged  justice  apportioned  more  or  less  to 
their  respective  interests  in  the  Common  Stock. 

These  reflections  suggest  the  expediency  of  such  a  modification 
of  Govt,  as  would  give  security  to  the  part  of  the  Society  having 
most  at  stake  and  being  most  exposed  to  danger.  Three  modifica- 
tions present  themselves. 

1.  Confining  the  right  of  suffrage  to  freeholders,  &  to  such  as 
hold  an  equivalent  property,  convertible  of  course  into  freeholds. 
The  objection  to  this  regulation  is  obvious.  It  violates 'the  vital 
principle  of  free  Govt,  that  those  who  are  to  be  bound  by  laws, 
ought  to  have  a  voice  in  making  them.  And  the  violation  wd.  be 
more  strikingly  unjust  as  the  lawmakers  become  the  minority: 
The  regulation  would  be  as  unpropitious  also  as  it  would  be  unjust. 
It  would  engage  the  numerical  &  physical  force  in  a  constant  strug- 
gle agst.  the  public  authority;  unless  kept  down  by  a  standing 
army  fatal  to  all  parties. 

2.  Confining  the  right  of  suffrage  for  one  Branch  to  the  holders 
of  property,  and  for  the  other  Branch  to  those  without  property. 
This  arrangement  which  wd.  give  a  mutual  defence,  where  there 
might  be  mutual  danger  of  encroachment,  has  an  aspect  of  equality 
8c  fairness.  But  it  wd.  not  be  in  fact  either  equal  or  fair,  because 
the  rights  to  be  defended  would  be  unequal,  being  on  one  side  those 
of  property  as  well  as  of  persons,  and  on  the  other  those  of  persons 
only.  The  temptation  also  to  encroach  tho'  in  a  certain  degree 
mutual,  wd.  be  felt  more  strongly  on  one  side  than  on  the  other; 
It  wd.  be  more  likely  to  beget  an  abuse  of  the  Legislative  Nega- 
tive in  extorting  concessions  at  the  expence  of  property,  than  the 
reverse.  The  division  of  the  State  into  the  two  Classes,  with  dis- 
tinct &  independt.  Organs  of  power,  and  without  any  intermingled 
Agency  whatever,  might  lead  to  contests  8c  antipathies  not  dissim- 
ilar to  those  between  the  Patricians  &  Plebeians  at  Rome. 

3.  Confining  the  right  of  electing  one  Branch  of  the  Legislature 
to  freeholders,  and  admitting  all  others  to  a  common  right  with 
holders  of  property,  in  electing  the  other  Branch.  This  wd.  give  a 
defensive  power  to  holders  of  property,  and  to  the  class  also  without 
property  when  becoming  a  majority  of  electors,  without  depriving 
them  in  the  mean  time  of  a  participation  in  the  public  Councils. 
If  the  holders  of  property  would  thus  have  a  twofold  share  of  rep- 
resentation, they  wd.  have  at  the  same  time  a  twofold  stake  in  it, 
the  rights  of  property  as  well  as  of  persons  the  twofold  object  of 
political  Institutions.  And  if  no  exact  8c  safe  equilibrium  can  be 
introduced,  it  is  more  reasonable  that  a  preponderating  weight  shd. 


454     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

be  allowed  to  the  greater  interest  than  to  the  lesser.  Experience 
alone  can  decide  how  far  the  practice  in  this  case  would  correspond 
with  the  Theory.  Such  a  distribution  of  the  right  of  su£Frage  was 
tried  in  N.  York  and  has  been  abandoned  whether  from  experienced 
evils,  or  party  calculations,  may  possibly  be  a  question.  It  is  still 
on  trial  in  N.  Carolina,  with  what  practical  indications  is  not  known. 
It  is  certain  that  the  trial,  to  be  satisfactory  ought  to  be  continued 
for  no  inconsiderable  period;  untill  in  fact  the  non  freeholders  should 
be  the  majority. 

4  Should  Experience  or  public  opinion  require  an  equal  &  uni- 
versal suffrage  for  each  branch  of  the  Govt.,  such  as  prevails  gen- 
erally in  the  U.  S.,  a  resource  favorable  to  the  rights  of  landed  & 
other  property,  when  its  possessors  become  the  Minority,  may  be 
found  in  an  enlargement  of  the  Election  Districts  for  one  branch  of 
the  Legislature,  and  an  extension  of  its  period  of  service.  Laige 
districts  are  manifestly  favorable  to  the  election  of  persons  of  gen- 
eral respectability,  and  of  probable  attachment  to  the  rights  of 
property,  over  competitors  depending  on  the  personal  solicitations 
practicable  on  a  contracted  theatre.  And  altho'  an  ambitious  candi- 
date, of  personal  distinction,  might  occasionally  recommend  himself 
to  popular  choice  by  espousing  a  popular  though  unjust  object  it 
might  rarely  happen  to  many  districts  at  the  same  time.  The  ten- 
dency of  a  longer  period  of  service  would  be,  to  render  the  Body  more 
stable  in  its  policy,  and  more  capable  of  stemming  popular  currents 
taking  a  wrong  direction,  till  reason  &  justice  could  r^ain  their 
ascendancy. 

5.  Should  even  such  a  modification  as  the  last  be  deemed  inad- 
missible, and  universal  suffrage  and  very  short  periods  of  elections 
within  contracted  spheres  be  required  for  each  branch  of  the  Govt., 
the  security  for  the  holders  of  property  when  the  minority,  can  only 
be  derived  from  the  ordinary  influence  possessed  by  property,  8c  the 
superior  information  incident  to  its  holders;  from  the  popular  sense 
of  justice  enlightened  &  enlarged  by  a  diffusive  education;  and  from 
the  difficulty  of  combining  &  effectuating  unjust  purposes  through- 
out an  extensive  country;  a  difficulty  essentially  distinguishing  the 
U.  S.  and  even  most  of  the  individual  States,  from  the  small  com- 
munities where  a  mistaken  interest  or  contagious  passion,  could 
readily  unite  a  majority  of  the  whole  under  a  factious  leader,  in 
trampling  on  the  rights  of  the  Minor  party. 

Under  every  view  of  the  subject,  it  seems  indispensable  that 
the  Mass  of  Citizens  should  not  be  without  a  voice,  in  making  the 
laws  which  they  are  to  obey,  &  in  chusing  the  Magistrates,  who  are 
to  administer  them,  and  if  the  only  alternative  be  between  an  equal 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXLIII  455 

&  universal  right  of  suffrage  for  each  branch  of  the  Govt,  and  a 
confinement  of  the  entire  right  to  a  part  of  the  Citizens,  it  is  better 
that  those  having  the  greater  interest  at  stake  namely  that  of  prop- 
erty &  persons  both,  should  be  deprived  of  half  their  share  in  the 
Govt.;  than,  that  those  having  the  lesser  interest,  that  of  personal 
rights  only,  should  be  deprived  of  the  whole. 


CCCXLIII.   James  Madison:  ^^Genl.  Remarks   on    the  Con- 
vention." * 

For  case  of  suffrage  see  Deb. :  Aug.  7. 

1.  Its  Members  of  the  most  select  kind  &  possessing  particularly 
the  confidence  of  yr.  Constituents 

2.  do-  generally  of  mature  age  &  much  political  experience. 

3.  Disinterestedness  &  candor  demonstrated  by  mutual  conces- 
sions, &  frequent  changes  of  opinion 

4.  Few  who  did  not  change  in  the  progress  of  discussions  the 
opinions  on  important  points  which  they  carried  into  the  Convention 

5.  Few  who,  at  the  close  of  the  Convention,  were  not  ready  to 
admit  this  change  as  the  enlightening  effect  of  the  discusions  — 

6.  And  how  few,  whose  opinions  at  the  close  of  the  Convention, 
have  not  undergone  changes  on  some  points,  under  the  more  enlight- 
ening influence  of  experience. 

7.  Yet  how  much  fewer  still  who,  if  now  living,  with  the  recol- 
lection of  the  difiiculties  in  the  Convention,  of  overcoming  or  recon- 
ciling honest  differences  of  opinion,  political  biasses,  and  local  inter- 
ests; and  with  due  attention  to  the  varieties  &  discords  of  opinion, 
the  vicisitudes  of  parties,  and  the  collisions  real  or  imagined  of  local 
interests,  witnessed  on  the  face  of  the  Nation,  would  not  felicitate 
their  Country  on  the  happy  result  of  the  original  Convention,  and 
deprecate  the  experiment  of  another  with  general  power  to  revise 
its  work. 

8.  The  restraining  influence  of  the  Constin  on  the  aberrations 
of  the  States  of  great  importance  tho'  invisible.  It  stifles  wishes  & 
inclinations  which  wd  otherwise  ripen  into  overt  &  pernicious  acts. 
The  States  themselves  are  unconscious  of  the  effect.  Were  these 
Constitul.  and  insuperable  obstacles  out  of  the  way  —  how  many 
political  ills  might  not  have  sprung  up  where  not  suspected.  The 
propensities  in  some  cases,  as  Mas:  Kenty.  &c  have  not  been  alto- 
gether contrould,  and  but  for  foreseen  difiiculties  might  have  been 
foUowd.  by  greater 

^  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  465-466.  It  seems  is  if  this  docu- 
ment mty  have  been  intended  is  an  introduction  to  CCCXLII. 


456     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCCXLIV.   John  Quinct  Adams:  Memoirs.^ 

[1823,  January]  9th.  ...  I  received  a  letter  from  General 
Alexander  Smyth,  asking  the  inspection  of  Mr.  Brearley's  printed 
draft  of  a  constitution,  reported  to  the  Federal  Convention  on  the 
1 2th  of  September,  1787.  I  see  at  once  his  object,  which  is  a  new 
device  to  trump  up  a  charge  before  the  public  against  me.  My  first 
impression  was  to  send  him  the  paper  itself,  requesting  him  to  return 
it  at  his  convenience,  and  I  wrote  him  an  answer  accordingly.  But, 
reflecting  upon  the  insidious  character,  as  well  as  the  malignity,  of 
his  first  attack  upon  me,  and  on  the  evident  portion  of  the  same 
ingredients  in  this  application,  I  thought  it  not  safe  to  trust  the  paper 
with  him.  I  therefore  wrote  him  that  the  paper  would  be  sub- 
mitted to  his  inspection  at  the  ofiSce  whenever  it  would  suit  his  con- 
venience to  call.     .  .  • 

nth.  When  I  came  to  my  own  office,  I  found  General  Alex- 
ander Smyth  there,  with  Mr.  E.  B.  Jackson,  another  member  of 
the  House  of  Representatives,  from  Virginia.  They  were  in  my 
room  with  Mr.  Brent,  and  Mr.  Smyth  was  inspecting  Mr.  Brear- 
ley's  copy  of  the  draft  of  a  Constitution  —  was  taking  a  copy  of  a 
passage  in  it,  and  writing  a  certificate  under  the  copy  that  he  made 
which  certificate  he  desired  Mr.  Brent  to  sign.  The  journal  of  the 
Federal  Convention  was  published  by  a  resolution  of  Congress 
under  my  direction,  in  the  year  18 19.  In  the  section  and  paragraph 
enumerating  the  powers  of  Congress  there  are  errors  of  punctuation 
—  errors  of  the  press,  which  had  escaped  my  attention.  Mr.  Sm)rth 
now  came  with  the  intention  of  trumping  up  a  charge  against  me 
of  having  intentionally  falsified  that  publication,  by  introducing  a 
false  punctuation.  Smyth  was  comparing  Brearley's  printed  draft 
with  the  copy  of  it  printed  in  the  journal  of  the  Convention,  and 
eagerly  seeking  for  variations  between  them.  He  found  on  Brear- 
ley's  paper  a  manuscript  minute,  ^'Brought  into  the  Convention 
13th  of  September,  1787."  "The  book  says  on  the  12th,"  said 
Smyth,  and,  charmed  with  his  imaginary  detection  of  a  new  blun- 
der, wrote  his  certificate  for  Brent  to  sign,  that  it  was  a  true  copy 
from  the  Constitution  reported  on  the  13  th  of  September,  showing 
the  punctuation,  obliteration,  and  amendments.  He  had  written 
the  copy  in  two  different  hands,  one,  it  seems,  intended  to  repre- 
sent the  printed,  and  the  other  the  manuscript  part  of  the  copy. 

Mr.  Brent  showed  me  the  certificate,  asking  if  he  should  sign  it. 
I  said  the  certificate,  as  written,  was  not  correct.  Smyth  said,  "It's 
not  true.     It  is  correct."     I  said  the  certificate  purported  to  show 

*  Vol.  VI,  pp.  131-122,  124-127, 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXLIV  457 

the  punctuation,  obliteration,  and  amendments,  but  did  not  specify 
what  part  was  in  print  and  what  part  in  manuscript.  It  also  stated 
the  Constitution  to  have  been  reported  on  the  13th,  while  the  jour- 
nal showed  that  it  had  been  reported  on  the  12th  of  September. 
He  said  he  had  taken  the  date  from  what  was  written  on  the  Brear- 
ley  paper  itself.  I  then  showed  by  the  journal  that  the  report  had 
been  made  on  the  12th,  and  ordered  to  be  printed  for  the  use  of  the 
members,  so  that  Brearley's  manuscript  minute,  "Brought  into  the 
Convention  13th  September,"  had  reference  to  the  printed  paper, 
and  not  to  the  report  itself,  which  had  been  brought  in  the  day  before. 

Smyth  then  struck  out  of  his  projected  certificate  the  13th  and 
inserted  12th;  but  I  still  objected  that  as  the  copy  did  not  specify 
what  part  was  print  and  what  part  manuscript,  it  was  not  fair  for 
comparison  with  the  printed  journal  of  the  Convention,  which  pro- 
fessedly gave  only  the  printed  part  of  Brearley's  paper. 

Smyth  then  cut  off  his  proposed  certificate  from  his  copy  and 
threw  the  certificate  away.  I  immediately  picked  it  up,  and  asked 
him  to  let  me  have  the  copy  itself  —  which  he  refused.  He  said  he 
meant  to  keep  that  himself.  I  might  have  a  fac-simile  of  it.  A 
fac-simile  of  the  paper  was  what  he  wanted. 

I  then  said  that  the  book  had  not  been  printed  from  the  printed 
paper,  but  from  a  copy  of  it  made  at  this  office,  and  which  had  been 
returned  to  it  from  the  printers,  and  was  still  in  the  office.  Smyth 
said  he  had  what  he  wanted  —  the  copy  from  the  original  paper. 

I  then  said  I  was  ready  to  explain  any  variation  which  there 
might  be  between  the  original  paper  and  the  printed  book,  and,  turn- 
ing to  Jackson,  I  desired  him  to  notice  that  Smyth  had  refused  to 
let  me  have  the  copy  which  he  had  made;  adding  that  I  might  per- 
haps be  under  a  necessity  of  requiring  his  testimony  hereafter. 

This  at  length  brought  Smyth  to;  Jackson  having  repeated  to 
him  that  I  had  said  I  should  hereafter  need  his  testimony.  I  then 
showed  to  Jackson  the  copy  of  Brearley's  paper,  which  was  sent  to 
the  printers  at  Boston,  and  from  which  the  book  was  printed.  In 
this  copy  the  punctuation  was  not  precisely  the  same  as  in  Brear- 
ley's  printed  paper,  from  which  it  was  copied,  but  it  was  the  same 
at  the  passage  upon  which  Smyth  wished  to  fix  the  charge  of  falsi- 
fication. Jackson  asked  how  it  was  in  the  copy  of  the  Constitution 
printed  in  the  first  volume  of  Bioren's  edition  of  the  laws,  published 
under  direction  of  Mr.  Monroe  when  Secretary  of  State,  and  Mr. 
Rush,  Attorney-General.  Smyth  said  there  were  some  differences 
of  punctuation  in  that.  I  sent  for  the  original  roll  of  the  Constitu- 
tion itself,  and  for  a  copy  printed  from  it  in  1820  by  my  direction 
and  then  collated  with  the  roll.    The  punctuation  in  no  two  of  the 


^y^ 


458      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

copies  was  exactly  the  same.  But  the  proof  was  complete  that,  in 
the  only  passage  at  which  the  punctuation  could  affect  the  sense, 
the  copy  made  at  the  ofEce  and  sent  to  Boston  to  be  printed  agreed 
precisely  with  the  original  printed  paper  of  Mr.  Brearley. 

After  a  long  and  pertinacious  examination  of  all  the  papers, 
which  were  taken  for  the  purpose  from  my  chamber  into  that  of  Mr. 
Brent,  Smyth  declared  himself  satisfied  that  he  had  been  mistaken 
in  his  suspicions,  and  that  the  error  of  punctuation  in  the  volume 
of  the  journal  of  the  Convention,  consisting  in  the  substitution  of 
a  colon  for  a  semicolon  — :  instead  of  ;  —  and  a  capital  T  instead 
of  a  small  /,  was  not  a  deliberate  and  wilful  forgery  of  mine  to  fal- 
sify the  Constitution  and  vest  absolute  and  arbitrary  powers  in 
Congress,  but  a  mere  error  of  the  press.  He  took,  however,  a  certi- 
fied copy  from  Mr.  Brent  of  the  passage  as  printed  in  Brearley's 
paper,  with  the  punctuation,  obliteration,  and  manuscript  inter- 
lineations.   , 

CCCXLV.   James  Madison  to  George  Hay.^ 

Montpellier  Aug  23.  1823. 

I  have  reed,  your  letter  of  the  nth  with  the  Newspapers  contain- 
ing your  remarks  on  the  present  mode  of  electing  a  President,  and 
your  proposed  remedy  for  its  defects.  I  am  glad  to  find  you  have 
not  abandoned  your  attention  to  great  Constitutional  topics. 

The  difficulty  of  finding  an  unexceptionable  process  for  appoint- 
ing the  Executive  Organ  of  a  Government  such  as  that  of  the  U.  S., 
was  deeply  felt  by  the  Convention;  and  as  the  final  arrangement  of 
it  took  place  in  the  latter  stage  of  the  Session,  it  was  not  exempt 
from  a  degree  of  the  hurrying  influence  produced  by  fatigue  and 
impatience  in  all  such  Bodies:  tho'  the  degree  was  much  less  than 
usually  prevails  in  them. 

The  part  of  the  arrangement  which  casts  the  eventual  appoint- 
ment on  the  House  of  Reps,  voting  by  States,  was,  as  you  presume, 
an  accomodation  to  the  anxiety  of  the  smaller  States  for  their  sove- 
reign equality,  and  to  the  jealousy  of  the  larger  towards  the  cumu- 
lative functions  of  the  Senate.  The  Agency  of  the  H.  of  Reps,  was 
thought  safer  also  than  that  of  the  Senate,  on  account  of  the  greater 
number  of  its  members.  It  might  indeed  happen  that  the  event 
would  turn  on  one  or  two  States  having  one  or  two  Reps,  only;  but 
even  in  that  case,  the  Representations  of  most  of  the  States  being 
numerous,  the  House  would  present  greater  obstacles  to  corruption 
than  the  Senate  with  its  paucity  of  Members.     It  may  be  observed 

^  Docum€iUafy  Histofy  of  the  Constitution,  V,  315-317. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXLVI  459 

alsOy  that  altho'  for  a  certain  period  the  evil  of  State  votes  given  by- 
one  or  two  individuals,  would  be  extended  by  the  introduction  of 
new  States,  it  would  be  rapidly  diminished  by  growing  populations 
within  extensive  territories.  At  the  present  period,  the  evil  is  at 
its  maximum.     .  .  . 

I  agree  entirely  with  you  in  thinking  that  the  election  of  Presi- 
dential Electors  by  districts,  is  an  amendment  very  proper  to  be 
brought  forward  at  the  same  time  with  that  relating  to  the  eventual 
choice  of  President  by  the  H.  of  Reps.  The  district  mode  was  mostly, 
if  not  exclusively,  in  view  when  the  Constitution  was  framed  and 
adopted;  &  was  exchanged  for  the  general  ticket  &  the  legislative 
election,  as  the  only  expedient  for  baffling  the  policy  of  the  parti- 
cular States  which  had  set  the  example. 


CCCXLVI.    RuFus  King  to  C.  King.* 

Monday  Evening,  Sept.  29,  1823. 

To  prove  that  your  construction  of  the  Constitution  respecting 
the  appointment  of  Electors  is  correct,  it  may  be  observed  that 
according  to  the  printed  Journal  of  the  Convention,  it  is  evident 
that  the  choice  of  the  President  was  a  subject  of  great  difficulty; 
and  the  more  so,  as  the  practice  of  the  States  was  at  that  period 
dissimilar  in  the  elections  of  Governor,  or  the  state  executive.  In 
all  the  States  except  N.  Jersey,  east  of  Maryland,  the  choice  of 
Govr.  was  made  by  the  people;  in  New  Jersey  and  the  five  southern 
States,  the  Gov.  was  chosen  by  the  several  State  Legislatures.  The 
members  of  the  Convention  in  settling  the  manner  of  electing  the 
Executive  of  the  U.  S.  seem  to  have  been  prejudiced  in  favor  of  the 
manner,  to  which  they  were  accustomed,  in  the  election  of  the  Gov- 
ernor of  their  respective  States. 

According  to  the  Journal,  on  the  19th.  of  July,  the  Convention 
resolved  that  the  Pr.  shd.  be  chosen  by  Electors  appointed  ^^by  the 
Legislatures  of  the  States^*:  on  the  23.  of  July,  they  reconsidered  this 
vote,  and  on  the  next  day  resolved  that  the  President  should  be 
chosen  "iy  the  national  Legislature^ 

This  appears  to  have  been  unsatisfactory,  and  to  have  given 
occasion  to  much  discussion  and  to  different  projects;  the  subject 
was  referred  to  a  large  Committee,  which  rejected  the  choice  by  the 
national  legislature,  and  reported  the  provision  which  is  contained 
in  the  Constitution,  viz  that  the  President  shall  be  chosen  by  Elec- 
tors to  be  appointed  ^*in  such  manner  as  the  Legislature  of  each  State 
may  directJ** 

*  C.  R.  King,  Life  and  Correspondence  ofRufus  King,  VI,  532-534. 


460      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Comparing  this  established  mode  of  choosing  the  Pr.  with  that 
which  was  adopted  on  the  19th.  of  July,  recollecting  the  immediate 
reconsideration  of  that  mode,  and  the  deliberate  adoption  of  the 
mode  of  choosing  wh.  is  provided  by  the  Constitution,  it  is  reason- 
able to  infer,  that  the  power  to  direct  the  manner  in  which  Electors 
may  be  chosen,  does  not  give  to  the  Legislature  of  each  State,  the 
power  by  which  they  themselves  may  make  such  appointment  of 
the  Electors. 

Again  the  Constitution  provides  that  Representatives  shall  be 
chosen  by  the  People;  Senators  by  the  Legislature  of  each  State  and 
Electors  in  such  manner  as  the  Legislature  of  each  State  may  direct. 
The  Legislature  may  direct  that  Electors  may  be  chosen  by  the 
people,  by  a  genl.  ticket  in  each  State,  or  by  districts;  they  may 
authorize  the  persons  qualified  to  vote  for  the  most  numerous  branch 
of  the  State  Legislature,  to  vote  for  the  Electors;  or  they  may  con- 
fine the  choice  to  free-holders,  as  is  the  case  in  Virginia;  or  they 
may  direct  that  the  people  shall  in  the  several  States,  by  ballot,  or 
viva  voce,  choose  Electors,  with  power  to  appoint  the  Electors  of 
the  President;  in  this  way  the  Senate  of  Maryland  is  appointed; 
and  it  appears  by  the  printed  Journal  of  the  Convention,  that  Gen- 
eral Hamilton  proposed  this  very  mode  of  choosing  the  Electors  of 
the  President.  As  the  language  of  the  Constitution  on  this  subject 
differs  from  the  language  of  the  first  Resolution,  wh.  gave  the 
appointment  of  Electors  to  the  State  Legislatures,  in  like  manner  as 
the  Constitution  gives  the  power  to  appoint  Senators,  it  is  not  only 
reasonable,  but  almost  necessary  to  give  the  provision  of  the  Consti- 
tution a  different  interpretation,  and  to  limit  the  same,  so  that  the 
State  Legislature  may  by  law  designate  those  who  may  appoint 
the  Electors  altho'  they  themselves  may  not  appoint  them. 

This  course  of  thinking  has  occurred  to  me,  I  suggest  it  to  you; 
the  facts  are  correct  as  I  state  them. 


CCCXLVIL   James  Madison  to  Thomas  Jefferson.* 

Montpellier,  Jany  14,  1824. 
An  appeal  from  an  abortive  ballot  in  the  first  meeting  of  the 
Electors  to  a  reassembling  of  them,  a  part  of  the  several  plans,  has 
something  plausible,  and,  in  comparison  with  the  existing  arrange- 
ment, might  not  be  inadmissible.  But  it  is  not  free  from  material 
objections.  It  relinquishes,  particularly,  the  policy  of  the  Consti- 
tution in  allowing  as  little  time  as  possible  for  the  Electors  to  be 
known  and  tampered  with.    And  beside  the  opportunities  for  in- 

^  Letters  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison^  III,  361. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXLVIII  46 1 

trigue  furnished  by  the  interval  between  the  first  and  second  meeting, 
the  danger  of  having  one  electoral  body  played  off  against  another, 
by  artful  misrepresentations  rapidly  transmitted,  a  danger  not  to 
be  avoided,  would  be  at  least  doubled. 


CCCXLVIII.    RuFUS    King    in    the    Senate   of   the   United 

States.* 

March  18,  1824. 

The  dangers  to  which  experience  had  shown  that  the  election 
of  Executive  Chiefs  are  liable;  dangers  which  had  led  other  nations 
to  prefer  hereditary  to  elective  Executives,  were,  without  doubt, 
well  considered  by  the  members  of  the  General  Convention,  who, 
nevertheless,  did  indulge  the  hope,  by  apportioning,  limiting,  and 
confining  the  Electors  within  their  respective  States,  and  by  the 
guarded  manner  of  giving  and  transmitting  the  ballots  of  the  Elec- 
tors to  the  Seat  of  Government,  that  intrigue,  combination,  and  cor- 
ruption, would  be  effectually  shut  out,  and  a  free  and  pure  election 
of  the  President  of  the  United  States  made  perpetual.     .  .  . 

The  House  of  Representatives  is  composed  on  the  basis  of  the 
numbers  of  the  respective  States,  the  small  States  here  yielding  to 
the  large  ones,  and  the  Senate  is  composed  on  the  basis  of  the  equal- 
ity of  the  States,  the  larger  States  here,  in  turn,  deferring  to  the 
small  ones.  The  Executive  is  chosen  by  neither  rule,  but  by  the 
influence  of  both  rules  united;  it  is  well  known  that  the  small  States 
would  not  have  consented  to  the  choice  by  Electors,  a  mode  favor- 
able to  the  large  States;  but,  upon  the  consent  of  the  large  States, 
on  the  failure  of  the  choice  of  the  President  by  the  Electors  on  the 
first  trial,  that  the  House  of  Representatives  voting  by  States,  the 
representation  from  each  State  having  one  vote,  shall  choose  the  Pres- 
ident, not  from  those  they  deem  the  most  worthy,  but  from  the  per- 
sons having  the  highest  numbers,  not  exceeding  three,  on  the  list 
of  those  voted  for  by  the  Electors,  thereby  restricting  the  choice 
of  the  House  of  Representatives  to  the  three  highest  candidates 
nominated  by  the  large  States.  To  this  adjustment,  which  was 
brought  about  by  compromise  between  the  States,  no  objections 
were  made  at  the  period  when  the  Constitution  was  afterwards 
under  the  discussion  of  the  several  States.  Though  great  difficul- 
ties occurred  in  the  debates  of  the  State  conventions  on  other  por- 
tions of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  no  opposition  appeared 
to  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  respecting  the  manner  of  elect- 
ing the  President,  and  no  such  objection  occurred  until  the  fourth 

*  Annals  of  Congress y  Eighteenth  Congress,  First  Session,  1, 355-356, 370. 


462     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

election  of  the  President,  which  was  made  by  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives; since  that  period,  five  Presidential  elections  have  taken 
place,  and,  in  eight  of  the  nine  elections,  the  President  has  been  chosen 
by  the  Electors;  the  fourth  election  is  the  only  instance  in  which 
the  President,  not  being  chosen  by  the  Electors,  the  election  devolved 
on  the  House  of  Representatives.  The  compromise,  on  the  subject 
of  the  Presidential  election,  which  has  been  always  binding  in  honor 
and  good  faith,  seems  of  late  to  have  been  forgotten;  and  dissatis- 
faction and  complaint  have  appeared  at  the  seat  of  government  in 
Virginia,  New  York,  and  other  States,  that  the  influence  of  the  great 
States  was  unreasonably  impaired  by  the  provision  of  the  Constitu- 
tion, that,  after  the  failure  to  choose  the  President  by  the  Electors, 
the  election  should  devolve  upon  the  House  of  Representatives, 
although  the  House  of  Representatives  is  restricted  to  the  choice  of 
the  President  from  three  candidates,  nominated  by  the  Electors, 
a  majority  of  whom  are  appointed  by  the  large  States.  Hence  it 
has  happened,  from  year  to  year,  that  attempts  have  been  made 
by  certain  States,  to  alter  the  Constitution  on  the  subject  of  the 
Presidential  election,  notwithstanding  this  election  is  matter  of 
compromise  and  compact  between  the  States,  without  which  no 
Constitution  or  Union  could  have  been  formed. 

.  .  .  The  power  of  choosing  the  President  is  given  to  the  Col- 
leges of  Electors  —  the  election,  in  the  first  instance,  is  in  their 
hands;  and,  to  prevent  the  possibility  of  combination,  they  are 
chosen  only  about  thirty  days  before  their  oflice  is  to  be  performed. 
The  election  is  directed  to  be  made  in  all  the  different  States  on  the 
same  day,  and  the  Electors  are  permitted  to  make  but  one  attempt 
at  a  choice.  These  provisions  of  the  Constitution  were  adopted 
for  the  express  purpose  of  preventing  combinations  —  an  effect 
which,  Mr.  B.  [K?]  thought,  was  greatly  to  be  dreaded  from  the  prac- 
tice of  nomination  by.  Congressional  caucuses. 


CCCXUX.    RuFus  King  to  C.  King.* 

Senate  Chamber,  23  March,  1824. 
The  election  of  the  Pr.,  as  it  is  one  of  the  most  important,  so  it 
is  one  of  the  most  intricate  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  and  in 
its  object,  except  in  the  first  stage  of  the  process,  is  assigned  to  the 
States  acting  in  their  federal  equal  capacity.  For  this  reason, 
measures  which  may  be  employed  in  the  several  States,  under  regu- 
lations and  provisions  of  simple,  and  single  sovereignties,  could  not 
be  adopted  in  the  balanced  system  of  the  Constitution  of  the  U.  S. 

^  C.  R.  King,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufiu  King,  VI,  557-558. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCL  463 

» 

—  a  compact  between  the  States,  wh.  contains  special  provisions 
whereby  the  executive,  legislative  and  judicial  officers  must  be 
appointed. 

Because  Conventions  may  be,  and  are,  held  to  nominate  State 
officers  it  does  not  hence  result  that  they  may  be  held  in  order  to 
concentrate  the  opinion,  of  the  States,  relative  to  the  election  of 
any  officer  of  the  U.  S.  

CCCL.   James  Madison  to  Edward  Livingston.* 

Montpellier  April  17.  1824. 

I  have  read  your  observations  with  a  due  perception  of  the  abil- 
ity which  pervades  and  the  eloquence  which  adorns  them;  and  I 
must  add,  not  without  the  pleasure  of  noticing  that  you  have  pruned 
from  the  doctrine  of  some  of  your  fellow  labourers,  its  most  luxu- 
riant branches  —  I  cannot  but  think  at  the  same  time,  that  you  have 
left  the  root  in  too  much  vigour.  This  appears  particularly  in  the 
question  of  Canals.  My  impression  with  respect  to  the  authority 
to  make  them  may  be  the  stronger  perhaps,  (as  I  had  occasion  to 
remark  as  to  the  Bank  on  its  original  discussion,)  from  my  recollec- 
tion that  the  authority  had  been  repeatedly  proposed  in  the  Conven- 
tion, and  negatived,  either  as  improper  to  be  vested  in  Congress, 
or  as  a  power  not  likely  to  be  yielded  by  the  States.  My  impres- 
sion is  also  very  decided,  that  if  the  construction  which  brings  Canals 
within  the  scope  of  commercial  regulations,  had  been  advanced  or 
admitted  by  the  advocates  of  the  constitution  in  the  State  Con- 
ventions, it  would  have  been  impossible  to  overcome  the  opposi- 
tion to  it.  It  is  remarkable  that  Mr.  Hamilton  himself,  the  strenuous 
patron  of  an  expansive  meaning  in  the  text  of  the  Constitution, 
with  the  views  of  the  Convention  fresh  in  his  memory,  and  in  a 
Report  contending  for  the  most  liberal  rules  of  interpretation,  was 
obliged  by  his  candour  to  admit  that  they  cpuld  not  embrace  the 
case  of  canals.    .  .  • 

It  cannot  be  denied  without  forgetting  what  belongs  to  human 
nature,  that  in  consulting  the  cotemporary  writings,  which  vindicated 
and  recommended  the  Constitution,  it  is  fair  to  keep  in  mind  that 
the  authors  might  be  sometimes  influenced  by  the  zeal  of  advocates: 
But  in  expounding  it  now,  —  is  the  danger  of  bias  less,  from  the 
influence  of  local  interests,  of  popular  currents,  and  even  from  an 
estimate  of  national  utility. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  ConstUution,  V,  3  29-3  3a 


464  RECORDS   OF  THE   FEDERAL   CONVENTION 

CCCLI.    Jambs  Madison  to  Henry  Lee.^ 

Montpellier,  June  25,  1824. 
What  a  metamorphosis  would  be  produced  in  the  code  of  law  if 
all  its  ancient  phraseology  were  to  be  taken  in  its  modem  sense! 
And  that  the  language  of  our  Constitution  is  already  undergoing 
interpretations  unknown  to  its  founders  will,  I  believe,  appear  to 
all  unbiased  inquirers  into  the  history  of  its  origin  and  adoption. 
Not  to  look  farther  for  an  example,  take  the  word  "consolidate," 
in  the  Address  of  the  convention  prefixed  to  the  Constitution.  It 
there  and  then  meant  to  give  strength  and  solidity  to  the  union  of 
the  States.  In  its  current  and  controversial  application,  it  means 
a  destruction  of  the  States  by  transfusing  their  powers  into  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  Union.  

CCCLII.   James  Madison  to  Henry  Lee.' 

Montpellier,  January  14,  1825. 
In  our  complex  system  of  polity,  the  public  will,  as  a  source  of 
authority,  may  be  the  will  of  the  people  as  composing  one  nation; 
or  the  will  of  the  States  in  their  distinct  and  independent  capacities; 
or  the  federal  will,  as  viewed,  for  example,  through  the  Presidential 
electors,  representing,  in  a  certain  proportion,  both  the  nation  and 
the  States.  If,  in  the  eventual  choice  of  a  President,  the  same  pro- 
portional rule  had  been  preferred,  a  joint  ballot  by  the  two  houses 
of  Congress  would  have  been  substituted  for  the  mode  which  gives 
an  equal  vote  to  every  State,  however  unequal  in  size.  As  the  Con- 
stitution stands,  and  is  regarded  as  the  result  of  a  compromise  between 
the  larger  and  smaller  States,  giving  to  the  latter  the  advantage  in 
selecting  a  President  from  the  candidates,  in  consideration  of  the 
advantage  possessed  by  the  former  in  selecting  the  candidates  from 
the  people,  it  cannot  be  denied,  whatever  may  be  thought  of  the 
constitutional  provision,  that  there  is,  in  making  the  eventual  choice, 
no  other  control  on  the  votes  to  be  given,  whether  by  the  represen- 
tatives of  the  smaller  or  larger  States,  but  their  attention  to  the  views 
of  their  respective  constituents  and  their  regard  for  the  public  good. 


CCCLIII.   T.  W.  Cobb  in  the  United  States  Senate.* 

February  23,  1825. 
Having  said  thus  much  concerning  the  nature  of  the  Federal 
Government,  the  limitations  of  its  powers,  the  rule  by  which  the 

•  Letters  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison^  III,  442-443. 

•  Letters  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison^  III,  479. 

•  Register  of  Debates  in  Congress^  I,  1824-1825,  652-653. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCLIII  465 

Constitution  should  be  expounded,  I  proceed  to  the  inquiry.  From 
what  clause  in  that  instrument  can  the  power  to  construct  roads 
and  canals  be  derived?  I  admit  there  is  no  clause  prohibiting  the 
exercise  of  such  a  power  —  but  it  is  equally  plain  that  there  is  no 
clause  containing  an  express  grant  of  the  right,  as  a  distinct  and  inde- 
pendent power.  May  we  not  go  somewhat  farther,  and  say,  that, 
in  addition  to  the  fact  of  no  such  express  grant  of  power  being  found 
in  the  Constitution,  there  is  a  strong  presumption  that  such  a  grant 
was  intended  to  be  denied  to  the  General  Government?  This  pre- 
sumption is  established  from  the  Journal  of  the  Convention,  as  I 
will  read:  On  the  14th  Sept.  (Journal  of  Convention,  p.  376,)  it  was 
proposed  to  add  to  the  enumeration  of  powers  contained  in  the  8th 
sec,  I  St.  art.  the  following:  "To  grant  letters  of  incorporation  for 
canals,"  &c.  It  was  rejected,  three  states  only  voting  for  it,  viz: 
Pennsylvania,  Virginia,  and  Georgia.  There  is  a  slight  difference 
in  words,  between  the  amendment  thus  rejected,  and  the  bill  under 
consideration.  The  amendment  proposed  to  invest  Congress  with 
power  to  "grant  letters  of  incorporation  for  canals,"  &c.  The  bill 
presupposes  that  Congress  possesses  the  power  to  construct  roads 
and  canals.  But  every  one  will  at  once  see  that  there  is  no  differ- 
ence in  principle.  For  if  the  power  to  grant  letters  of  incorporation 
for  canals,  &c,  had  been  conferred  on  Congress,  it  would  have  car- 
ried with  it  a  grant  of  power  to  Congress  itself,  to  construct  them, 
inasmuch  as  the  letters  of  incorporation  could  confer  only  such  powers 
as  vested  in  the  person  or  body  politic  by  whom  they  were  to  be 
granted.  What,  then,  is  the  presumption  to  be  drawn  from  the 
refusal  by  the  Convention  to  confer  this  power?  It  can  be  only  one 
of  two:  1st,  That  the  Convention  intended  to  deny  the  power  to 
Congress,  and  if  so,  the  question  as  to  our  power  to  pass  the  bill 
under  consideration  is  settled:  we  can  have  no  such  power.  2d, 
The  other  presumption  is,  that  the  Convention  refused  to  adopt  the 
amendment,  because  they  believed  the  power  was  conferred  in  some 
other  clause  or  grant.  If  this  last  presumption  were  correct,  we 
should  have  had  some  evidence,  somewhere,  of  its  truth.  We  should 
have  had  some  hint,  either  from  the  early  expositors  of  the  Consti- 
tution, or  from  the  declarations  of  some  member  of  the  Convention, 
that  such  was  the  opinion  entertained  by  that  body.  Consult  the 
Letters  of  Publius,  published  under  the  title  of  the  Federalist  — 
that  work  was  principally  written  by  two  distinguished  members 
of  the  convention,  one  of  whom*  was  at  his  post  when  the  vote 
was  taken  on  the  amendment.  Does  that  work  any  where  insinuate 
that  such  power  was  vested  expressly  or  impliedly,  in  Congress,  by 

*Mr.  Madison. 


466     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  Constitution?  Nay,  has  not  the  distinguished  individual  alluded 
to,  when  subsequently  President  of  the  United  States,  in  a  solemn 
message  to  Congress,  denied  that  any  such  power  was  conferred  by 
the  Constitution?  Surely  it  would  not  have  been  unknown  to  him, 
if  the  Convention  had  ever  intended  to  delegate  the  power.  Con- 
sult, also,  the  work  recently  published  by  Mr.  Yates,  another  mem- 
ber of  the  Convention,  and  nothing  will  be  found  favorable  to  the 
presumption.  At  the  present  moment,  we  have  in  this  very  body  a 
distinguished  member  of  that  Convention.*  He  was  present,  and 
voted  on  the  amendment  I  have  read  from  the  Journal.  Doubt- 
less he  will  be  able  to  inform  us  whether  the  rejection  of  the  amend- 
ment proceeded  from  a  belief  in  the  Convention  that  the  power  was 
conferred  in  some  other  clause  of  the  Constitution.f  This  second 
presumption,  then,  is  fallacious,  and,  consequently,  Congress  have  no 
power,  either  express  or  implied,  over  the  subject  of  roads  and  canals. 

*  Hon.  Rttfus  Ring,  of  New  York. 

t  In  this  ptrt  of  his  remtrks,  Mr.  C.  tddressed  himself  to  Mr.  K.  who,  shtkiog 
hii  held,  is  understood  to  hive  said,  "Such  t  thing  was  not  thought  of."  Mr.  K. 
voted  against  the  bill.  

CCCLIV.   T.  H.  Benton  on  Retiring  of  Rufus  King  from 

THE  United  States  Senate.^ 

In  one  of  our  conversations,  and  upon  the  formation  of  the  con- 
stitution in  the  federal  convention  of  1787,  he  said  some  things  to 
me  which,  I  think  ought  to  be  remembered  by  future  generations, 
to  enable  them  to  appreciate  justly  those  founders  of  our  government 
who  were  in  favor  of  a  stronger  organization  than  was  adopted. 
He  said:  "You  young  men  who  have  been  bom  since  the  Revolu- 
tion, look  with  horror  upon  the  name  of  a  King,  and  upon  all 
propositions  for  a  strong  government.  It  was  not  so  with  us.  We 
were  bom  the  subjects  of  a  King,  and  were  accustomed  to  subscribe 
ourselves  'His  Majesty's  most  faithful  subjects;'  and  we  began  the 
quarrel  which  ended  in  the  Revolution,  not  against  the  King,  but 
against  his  parliament;  and  in  making  the  new  government  many 
propositions  were  submitted  which  would  not  bear  discussion;  and 
ought  not  to  be  quoted  against  their  authors,  being  offered  for  con- 
sideration, and  to  bring  out  opinions,  and  which,  though  behind 
the  opinions  of  this  day,  were  in  advance  of  those  of  that  day." 
—  These  things  were  said  chiefly  in  relation  to  General  Hamilton, 
who  had  submitted  propositions  stronger  than  those  adopted,  but 
nothing  like  those  which  party  spirit  attributed  to  him. 

1 T.  H.  Benton,  Thiriy  Years'  View,  I,  58. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCLV  467 

CCCLV.   William  Steele  to  Jonathan  D.  Steele.* 

^     ,       « Painted  Post,  September,  1825. 

I  some  time  ago  repeated  to  you  an  historical  anecdote,  in  which 
you  felt  so  much  interested  that  you  extorted  from  me  a  promise, 
that  I  would  at  some  moment  of  leisure  commit  it  to  paper  for  you. 
I  am  now  seated  for  that  purpose,  and  shall  relate  it  as  nearly  as  I 
can  recollect,  in  the  words  of  General  Jonathan  Dayton,  one  of  the 
members  of  the  General  Convention,  who  framed  the  Constitution, 
and  afterwards  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  in  the  Con- 
gress of  the  United  States. 

I  was  (said  General  Dayton)  a  delegate  from  New  Jersey,  in  the 
General  Convention  which  assembled  in  Philadelphia  for  the  pur- 
pose of  digesting  a  constitution  for  the  United  States,  and  I  believe 
I  was  the  youngest  member  of  that  body.  The  great  and  good  Wash- 
ington was  chosen  our  president,  and  Dr.  Franklin,  among  other 
great  men,  was  ^  delegate  from  Pennsylvania.  A  disposition  was 
soon  discovered  in  some  members  to  display  themselves  in  orator- 
ical flourishes;  but  the  good  sense  and  discretion  of  the  majority 
put  down  all  such  attempts.  We  had  conveneci  to  deliberate  upon, 
and  if  possible  effect,  a  great  national  object  —  to  search  for  polit- 
ical wisdom  and  truth;  these  we  meant  to  pursue  with  simplicity,  and 
to  avoid  everything  which  would  have  a  tendency  to  divert  our  atten- 
tion, or  perplex  our  scheme. 

A  great  variety  of  projects  were  proposed,  all  republican  in  their 
general  outlines,  but  differing  in  their  details.  It  was,  therefore, 
determined  that  certain  elementary  principles  should  at  first  be 
established,  in  each  branch  of  the  intended  constitution,  and  after- 
wards the  details  should  be  debated  and  filled  up. 

There  was  little  or  no  difficulty  in  determining  upon  the  element 
ary  principles  —  such  as,  for  instance,  that  the  government  should 
be  SLretublican^epresentative  government  —  that  it  should  be  divided 
into  three  branches,  that  is^j££is[qtwe^^jxeci^^  and  judicial^  &c. 
But  when  the  organization  of  the  respective  branches  of  the  legis- 

^  Litteirs  Lunng  Jge,  25  May,  1850.  The  National  InuUtgencer  of  August  26, 
1826,  had  printed  this  with  the  following  introduction  from  the  Ntw  York  Gazette: 

**  A  friend  has  favored  us  with  an  interesting  Manuscript,  relating  to  a  most 
important  period  of  our  history.  The  circumstances  here  detailed  are  new  to  us,  and 
we  believe  they  have  never  before  been  published.    The  narrative  is  in  the  words  of 

General ,  one  of  the  members  of  the  General  Convention  which  framed  the  G>]|- 

stitution.     It  was  committed  to  paper  by  the  gentleman  to  whom  General 

detailed  the  facts,  and  we  now  have  the  satisfaction  of  la3nng  it  before  our  readers." 

For  Madison's  comment  on  this  anecdote  see  CCCLXXIX  and  CCCXCIII 
below. 


468     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

lature  came  under  consideration,  it  was  easy  to  be  perceived  that 
'the  eastern  and  southern  states  had  distinct  interests^  which  it  was 
difficult  to  reconcile;  and  that  the  larger  states  were  disposed  to 
form  a  constitution,  in  which  the  smaller  states  would  be  mere 
appendages  and  satellites  to  the  larger  ones.  On  the  first  of  these 
subjects,  much  animated  and  somewhat  angry  debate  had  taken  place, 
when  the  ratio  of  representation  in  the  lower  house  of  Congress  was 
before  us  —  the  southern  states  claiming  for  themselves  the  whole 
number  of  their  black  population,  while  the  eastern  states  were  for 
confining  the  elective  franchise  to  freemen  only,  without  respect  to 
color. 

As  the  different  parties  adhered  pertinaciously  to  their  different 
positions,  it  was  feared  that  this  would  prove  an  insurmountable 
obstacle;  —  but  as  the  members  were  already  generally  satisfied 
that  no  constitution  could  be  formed,  which  would  meet  the  views 
and  subserve  the  interests  of  each  individual  state,  it  was  evident 
that  it  must  be  a  matter  of  compromise  and  mutual  ceneessioa^ 
Under  these  impressions,  and  with  these  views,  it  was  agreed  at 
length  that  each  state  should  be  entitled  to  one  delegate  in  the  House 
of  Representatives  for  every  30,000  of  its  inhabitants  —  in  which 
number  should  be  included  three  fifths  of  the  whole  number  of  their 
slaves. 

When  the  details  of  the  House  of  Representatives  were  disposed 
of,  a  more  knotty  point  presented  itself  in  the  organization  of  the 
Senate.  The  larger  states  contended  that  the  same  ratio^  as  to  states, 
should  be  common  to  both  branches  of  the  legislature;  or,  in  other 
words,  that  each  state  should  be  entitled  to  a  representation  in  the 
Senate,  (whatever  might  be  the  number  fixed  on,)  in  proportion  to 
its  population,  as  in  the  House  of  Representatives.  The  smaller 
states,  on  the  other  hand,  contended  that  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives might  be  considered  as  the  guardian  of  the  liberties  of  the 
people^  and  therefore  ought  to  bear  a  just  proportion  to  their  num- 
bers; but  that  the  Senate  represented  the  sovereignty  of  the  StateSy 
and  that  as  each  state,  whether  great  or  small,  was  equally  an  inde- 
pendent and  sovereign  state,  it  ought,  in  this  branch  of  the  legisla- 
ture, to  have  equal  weight  and  authority;  without  this,  they  said, 
there  could  be  no  security  for  their  equal  rights  —  and  they  would,  by 
such  a  distribution  of  power,  be  merged  and  lost  in  the  larger  states. 

This  reasoning,  however  plain  and  powerful,  had  but  little  influ- 
ence on  the  minds  of  delegates  from  the  larger  states  —  and  as  they 
formed  a  large  majority  of  the  Convention,  the  question,  after  pass- 
ing through  the  forms  of  debate,  was  decided  that  'each  state  should 
be  represented  in  the  Senate  in  proportion  to  its  population.' 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLV  469 

When  the  Convention  had  adjourned  over  to  the  next  day,  the 
delegates  of  the  four  smallest  states,  i.e.,  Rhode  Island,  Connecticut, 
New  Jersey,  and  Delaware,  convened  to  consult  what  course  was  to 
be  pursued  in  the  important  crisis  at  which  we  had  arrived.  After 
serious  investigation,  it  was  solemnly  determined  to  ask  for  a  recon- 
sideration the  next  morning;  and  if  it  was  not  granted,  or  if,  when 
granted,  that  offensive  feature  of  the  Constitution  could  not  be 
expunged,  and  the  smaller  states  put  upon  an  equal  footing  with  the 
largest,  we  would  secede  from  the  Convention,  and,  returning  to 
our  constituents,  inform  them  that  no  compact  could  be  formed 
with  the  large  states,  but  one  which  would  sacrifice  our  sovereignty  /' 
and  independence.  / 

/  was  deputed  to  be  the  organ  through  which  this  communica-  \J 
tion  should  be  made  —  I  know  not  why,  unless  it  be  that  young  men 
are  generally  chosen  to  perform  rash  actions.  Accordingly,  when  the 
Convention  had  assembled,  and  as  soon  as  the  minutes  of  the  last 
sitting  were  read,  I  arose  and  stated  the  view  we  had  taken  of  the 
organization  of  the  Senate  —  our  desire  to  obtain  a  reconsideration 
and  suitable  modification  of  that  article;  and,  in  failure  thereof,  our 
determination  to  secede  from  the  Convention,  and  return  to  our 
constituents. 

This  disclosure,  it  may  readily  be  supposed,  produced  an  im- 
mediate and  great  excitement  in  every  part  of  the  house!  Several 
members  were  immediately  on  the  floor  to  express  their  surprise,  or 
indignation!  They  represented  that  the  question  had  received  a 
full  and  fair  investigation,  and  had  been  definitively  settled  by  a  very 
large  majority.  That  it  was  altogether  unparliamentary  and  unrea- 
sonable, for  one  of  the  minority  to  propose  a  reconsideration,  at  the 
moment  their  act  had  become  a  matter  of  record^  and  without  pre- 
tending that  any  new  light  could  be  thrown  on  the  subject.  That 
if  such  a  precedent  should  be  established,  it  would  in  future  be  impos- 
sible to  say  when  any  one  point  was  definitively  settled;  as  a  small 
minority  might  at  any  moment,  again  and  again,  move  and  obtain 
a  reconsideration.  They  therefore  hoped  the  Convention  would 
express  its  decided  disapprobation  by  passing  silently  to  the  busi- 
ness before  them. 

There  was  much  warm  and  some  acrimonious  feeling  exhibited 
by  a  number  of  the  speeches  —  a  rupture  appeared  almost  inevitable, 
and  the  bosom  of  Washington  seemed  to  labor  with  the  most  anxious 
solicitude  for  its  issue.  Happily  for  the  United  States,  the  Conven-^ 
tion  contained  some  individuals  possessed  of  talents  and  virtues 
of  the  highest  order,  whose  hearts  were  deeply  interested  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  new  and  efficient  form  of  government;  and  whose  pen- 


470     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

etrating  minds  had  already  deplored  the  evils  which  would  spring 
up  in  our  newly  established  republic,  should  the  present  attempt 
to  consolidate  it  prove  abortive.  Among  those  personages,  the  most 
prominent  was  Dr.  Franklin.  He  was  esteemed  the  Mentor  of  our 
body.  To  a  mind  naturally  strong  and  capaciouSy  enriched  by  much 
reading  and  the  experience  of  many  years,  he  added  a  manner  of 
communicating  his  thoughts  peculiarly  his  own  —  in  which  simplicity, 
beauty,  and  strength  were  equally  conspicuous.  As  soon  as  the  angry 
orators,  who  preceded  him  had  left  him  an  opening,  the  doctor  rose, 
evidently  impressed  with  the  weight  of  the  subject  before  them,  and 
the  difficulty  of  managing  it  successfully. 

"  We  have  arrived,  Mr.  President,"  said  he,  "  at  a  very  momen- 
tous and  interesting  crisis  in  our  deliberations.  Hitherto  our  views 
have  been  as  harmonious,  and  our  progress  as  great,  as  could  reason- 
ably have  been  expected.  But  now  an  unlooked  for  and  formidable 
obstacle  is  thrown  in  our  way,  which  threatens  to  arrest  our  course, 
and,  if  not  skilfully  removed,  to  render  all  our  fond  hopes  of  a  con- 
stitution abortive.  The  ground  which  has  been  taken  by  the  dele- 
gates of  the  four  smallest  states,  was  as  unexpected  by  me,  and  as 
repugnant  to  my  feelings,  as  it  can  be  to  any  other  member  of  this 
Convention.  After  what  I  thought  a  full  and  impartial  investiga- 
tion of  the  subject,  I  recorded  my  vote  in  the  affirmative  side  of  the 
question,  and  I  have  not  yet  heard  anything  whch  induces  me  to 
change  my  opinion.  But  I  will  not,  therefore,  conclude  that  it  is 
impossible  for  me  to  be  wrong!  I  will  not  say  that  those  gentlemen 
who  differ  from  me  are  under  a  delusion  —  much  less  will  I  charge 
them  with  an  intention  of  needlessly  embarrassing  our  delibera- 
tions. It  is  possible  some  change  in  our  late  proceedings  ought  to 
take  place  upon  principles  of  political  justice;  or  that,  all  things  con- 
sidered, the  majority  may  see  cause  to  recede  from  some  of  their  just 
pretensions,  as  a  matter  of  prudence  and  expediency.  For  my  own 
part,  there  is  nothing  I  so  much  dread,  as  a  failure  to  devise  and  estab- 
lish some  efficient  and  equal  form  of  government  for  our  infant 
republic.  The  present  effort  has  been  made  under  the  happiest 
auspices,  and  has  promised  the  most  favorable  results;  but  should 
this  effort  prove  vain,  it  will  be  long  ere  another  can  be  made  with 
any  prospect  of  success.  Our  strength  and  our  prosperity  will  depend 
on  our  unity;  and  the  secession  of  even  four  of  the  smallest  states, 
interspersed  as  they  are,  would,  in  my  mind,  paralyze  and  render 
useless,  any  plan  which  the  majority  could  devise.  I  should  there- 
fore be  grieved,  Mr.  President,  to  see  matters  brought  to  the  test, 
which  has  been,  perhaps  too  rashly  threatened  on  the  one  hand, 
and  which  some  of  my  honored  colleagues  have  treated  too  lightly 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLV  47 1 

on  the  other.  I  am  convinced  that  it  is  a  subject  which  should  be 
approached  with  caution^  treated  with  tenderness^  and  decided  on 
with  candor  and  liberality. 

"  It  is,  however,  to  be  feared  that  the  members  of  this  Conven- 
tion are  not  in  a  temper,  at  this  moment,  to  approach  the  subject 
in  which  we  differ,  in  this  spirit.  I  would,  therefore,  propose,  Mr. 
President,  that,  without  proceeding  further  in  this  business  at  this 
time,  the  Convention  shall  adjourn  for  three  days^  in  order  to  let  the 
present  ferment  pass  off,  and  to  afford  time  for  a  more  full,  free,  and 
dispassionate  investigation  of  the  subject;  and  I  would  earnestly 
recommend  to  the  members  of  this  Convention,  that  they  spend  the 
time  of  this  recess,  not  in  associating  with  their  otvn  party,  and  devis- 
ing new  arguments  to  fortify  themselves  in  their  old  opinions^  but  that 
they  mix  with  members  of  opposite  sentiments,  lend  a  patient  ear 
to  their  reasonings,  and  candidly  allow  them  all  the  weight  to  which 
they  may  be  entitled;  and  when  we  assemble  again,  I  hope  it  will 
be  with  a  determination  to  form  a  constitution,  if  not  such  an  one 
as  we  can  individually,  and  in  all  respects,  approve,  yet  the  best, 
which,  under  existing  circumstances,  can  be  obtained."  (Here  the 
countenance  of  Washington  brightened,  and  a  cheering  ray  seemedl 
to  break  in  upon  the  gloom  which  had  recently  covered  our  polit- 
ical horizon.)  The  doctor  continued:  "  Before  I  sit  down,  Mr.  Pres- 
ident, I  will  suggest  another  matter;  and  I  am  really  surprised  that  it 
has  not  been  proposed  by  some  other  member  at  an  earlier  period 
of  our  deliberations.  I  will  suggest,  Mr.  President,  the  propriety 
of  nominating  and  appointing,  before  we  separate,  a  chaplain  to  this 
Convention,  whose  duty  it  shall  be  uniformly  to  assemble  with  us, 
and  introduce  the  business  of  each  day  by  an  address  to  the  Creator  of 
the  universe,  and  the  Governor  of  all  nations,  beseeching  Him  to 
preside  in  our  council,  enlighten  our  minds  with  a  portion  of  heavenly 
wisdom,  influence  our  hearts  with  a  love  of  truth  and  justice,  and 
crown  our  labors  with  complete  and  abundant  success!" 

The  doctor  sat  down,  and  never  (said  Gen.  D.)  did  I  behold  a 
countenance  at  once  so  dignified  and  delighted  as  was  that  of  Wash- 
ington, at  the  close  of  this  address!  Nor  were  the  members  of  the 
Convention,  generally  less  affected.  The  words  of  the  venerable 
Franklin  fell  upon  our  ears  with  a  weight  and  authority,  even  greater 
than  we  may  suppose  an  oracle  to  have  had  in  a  Roman  senate!  A 
silent  admiration  superseded,  for  a  moment,  the  expression  of  that 
assent  and  approbation  which  was  strongly  marked  on  almost  every 
countenance;  I  say  almost,  for  one  man  was  found  in  the  Convention, 

Mr.  H ,  from ,  who  rose  and  said,  with  regard  to  the  first 

motion  of  the  honorable  gentleman,  for  an  adjournment,  he  would 


47^      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

yield  his  assent;  but  he  protested  against  the  second  motion,  for 
the  appointment  of  a  chaplain.  He  then  commenced  a  high-strained 
eulogium  on  the  assemblage  of  wisdom^  Udenty  and  experience^  which 
the  Convention  embraced;  declared  the  high  sense  he  entertained 
of  the  honor  which  his  constituents  had  conferred  upon  him^  in 
making  him  a  member  of  that  respectable  body;  said  he  was  confi- 
dently of  opinion  that  they  were  competent  to  transact  the  business 
which  had  been  entrusted  to  their  care  —  that  they  were  equal  to 
every  exigence  which  might  occur;  and  concluded  by  sa3ring,  that 
therefore  he  did  not  see  the  necessity  of  calling  \n  foreign  aid! 

Washington  fixed  his  eye  upon  the  speaker,  with  a  mixture  of 
surprise  and  indignation^  while  he  uttered  this  impertinent  and  im- 
pious speech,  and  then  looked  around  to  ascertain  in  what  manner 
it  affected  others.  They  did  not  leave  him  a  moment  to  doubt;  no 
one  deigned  to  reply^  or  take  the  smallest  notice  of  the  speaker,  but 
the  motion  for  appointing  a  chaplain  was  instantly  seconded  and 

carried;  whether  under  the  silent  disapprobation  of  Mr.  H ^  or 

his  solitary  negative^  I  do  not  recollect.  The  motion  for  an  adjourn- 
ment was  then  put  and  carried  unanimously,  and  the  Convention 
adjourned  accordingly. 

The  three  days  of  recess  were  spent  in  the  manner  advised  by 
Doctor  Franklin;  the  opposite  parties  mixed  with  each  other,  and  a 
free  and  frank  interchange  of  sentiments  took  place.  On  the  fourth 
day  we  assembled  again,  and  if  great  additional  light  had  not  been 
thrown  on  the  subject,  every  unfriendly  feeling  had  been  expelled; 
and  a  spirit  of  conciliation  had  been  cultivated,  which  promised, 
at  least,  a  calm  and  dispassionate  reconsideration  of  the  subject. 

As  soon  as  the  chaplain  had  closed  his  prayer,  and  the  minutes 
of  the  last  sitting  were  read,  all  eyes  were  turned  to  the  doctor.  He 
rose,  and  in  a  few  words  stated,  that  during  the  recess  he  had  lis- 
tened attentively  to  all  the  arguments  pro  and  con,  which  had  been 
urged  by  both  sides  of  the  house;  that  he  had  himself  said  much, 
and  thought  more  on  the  subject;  he  saw  difficulties  and  objections, 
which  might  be  urged  by  individual  states,  against  every  scheme 
which  had  been  proposed;  and  he  was  now,  more  than  ever,  convinced 
that  the  constitution  which  they  were  about  to  form,  in  order  to 
be  just  and  equalj  must  be  formed  on  the  basis  of  compromise  and 
mutual  concession.  With  such  views  and  feelings,  he  would  now 
move  a  reconsideration  of  the  vote  last  taken  on  the  organization  of 
the  Senate.  The  motion  was  seconded,  the  vote  carried,  the  former 
vote  rescinded,  and  by  a  successive  motion  and  resolution,  the  Sen- 
ate was  organized  on  the  present  plan. 

Thus,  my  dear  son,  I  have  detailed,  as  far  as  my  memory  serves 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLVI  473 

me,  the  information  which  I  received  personally  from  General  Day- 
ton. It  has  been  done  from  a  recollection  of  ten  years,  and  I  may 
have  differed  much  from  General  Dayton  in  his  phraseology,  but  I 
am  confident  I  have  faithfully  stated  the  facts.  I  have  related  this 
anecdote  at  different  times  to  gentlemen  of  information,  to  all  of 
whom  it  was  entirely  new.  Some  of  them  requested  me  to  furnish 
them  a  written  copy,  but  I  deemed  that  improper  without  the  per- 
mission of  General  Dayton;  and  I  intended,  the  first  opportunity  I 
should  have,  to  make  the  same  request  of  him  —  but  the  hand  of 
death  has  removed  him. 

In  committing  this  anecdote  to  paper,  I  have  been  actuated  not 
only  by  a  wish  to  gratify  you^  but  by  a  desire  to  perpetuate  the  jacts^ 
if,  as  I  fear,  they  are  not  elsewhere  recorded.  As  they  relate  to  a 
very  important  feature  in  our  republican  institutions,  and  to  some  of 
the  most  celebrated  individuals  who  achieved  our  independence  and 
framed  our  national  government,  they  will,  I  am  persuaded,  be  inter- 
esting to  every  lover  of  this  happy  country. 

I  am,  very  affectionately, 

Your  father, 

To  Jonathan  D.  Steele.  ^^-  S"^^^- 

CCCLVI.   Jaubs  Madison  to  Andrew  Stevenson.' 

Montpellier  Mar.  25.  26 
Will  you  pardon  me  for  pointing  out  an  error  of  fact  into  which 
you  have  fallen,  as  others  have  done,  by  supposing  that  the  term, 
national  applied  to  the  contemplated  Government,  in  the  early 
stage  of  the  Convention,  particularly  in  the  propositions  of  Mr. 
Randolph,  was  equivalent  to  unlimited  or  consolidated.  This  was 
not  the  case.  The  term  was  used,  not  in  contradistinction  to  a  lim- 
ited, but  to  a  federal  Government.  As  the  latter  operated  within 
the  extent  of  its  authority  thro'  requisitions  on  the  confederated 
States,  and  rested  on  the  sanction  of  State  Legislatures,  the  Govern- 
ment to  take  its  place,  was  to  operate  within  the  extent  of  its  powers 
directly  &  coercively  on  individuals,  and  to  receive  the  higher  sanc- 
tion of  the  people  of  the  States.  And  there  being  no  technical  or 
appropriate  denomination  applicable  to  the  new  and  unique  System, 
the  term  national  was  used,  with  a  confidence  that  it  would  not  be 
taken  in  a  wrong  sense,  especially  as  a  right  one  could  be  readily 
suggested  if  not  sufliciently  implied  by  some  of  the  propositions  them- 
selves. Certain  it  is  that  not  more  than  two  or  three  members  of 
the  Body  and  they  rather  theoretically  than  practically,  were  in 

^  Documeviofy  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  332-334. 


474     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

favor  of  an  unlimited  Govt,  founded  on  a  consolidation  of  the  States; 
and  that  neither  Mr.  Randolph,  nor  any  one  of  his  colleagues  was 
of  the  number.  His  propositions  were  the  result  of  a  meeting  of 
the  whole  Deputation,  and  concurred  or  acquiesced  in  unanimously, 
merely  as  a  general  introduction  of  the  business;  such  as  might  be 
expected  from  the  part  Virginia  had  in  bringing  about  the  Conven- 
tion, and  as  might  be  detailed,  and  defined  in  the  progress  of  the 
work.    The  Journal  shews  that  this  was  done. 

I  cannot  but  highly  approve  the  industry  with  which  you  have 
searched  for  a  key  to  the  sense  of  the  Constitution,  where  alone  the 
true  one  can  be  found;  in  the  proceedings  of  the  Convention,  the 
cotemporary  expositions,  and  above  all  in  the  ratifying  Conventions 
of  the  States.  If  the  instrument  be  interpreted  by  criticisms  which 
lose  sight  of  the  intention  of  the  parties  to  it,  in  the  fascinating 
pursuit  of  objects  of  public  advantage  or  conveniency,  the  purest 
motives  can  be  no  security  against  innovations  materially  changing 
the  features  of  the  Government. 


CCCLVII.   Jaubs  Madison  to  Thomas  Cooper.^ 

Montpellier  Deer.  26.  1826 — 
The  mail  has  furnished  me  with  a  copy  of  your  Lectures  on  Civil 
Government,  Sc  on  the  constitution  of  the  U.  S.  I  find  in  them  much 
in  which  I  concur;  parts  on  which  I  might  say  —  non  liquet  —  & 
others  from  which  I  should  dissent;  but  none,  of  which  interesting 
veiws  are  not  presented.  What  alone  I  mean  to  notice  is  a  passage 
in  which  you  have  been  misled  by  the  authorities  before  you,  Sc  by 
a  misunderstanding  of  the  term  '' National''  used  in  the  early  pro- 
ceedings of  the  Convention  of  1787.  Both  Mr.  Yates  Sc  Mr.  Mar- 
tin brought  to  the  Convention  predispositions  agt.  its  object,  the 
one  from  Maryland  representing  the  party  of  Mr.  Chase  opposed 
to  federal  restraints  on  the  State  Legislation;  the  other  from  New 
York,  the  party  unwilling  to  lose  the  power  over  trade  through  which 
the  State  levied  a  tribute  on  the  consumption  of  its  neighbours. 
Both  of  them  left  the  Convention  long  before  it  compleated  its  work; 
8c  appear  to  have  reported  in  angry  terms,  what  they  had  observed 
with  jaundiced  eyes.  Mr.  Martin  is  said  to  have  recanted  at  a 
later  day;  &  Mr.  Yates  to  have  changed  his  politics  &  joined  the 

party  adverse  to  that  which  sent  him  to  the  Convention. With 

respect  to  the  term  ''National"  as  contradistinguished  from  the 
term  "federal,"  it  was  not  meant  to  express  the  extent  of  power,  but 
the  mode  of  its  operatiofiy  which  was  to  be  not  like  the  power  of  the 

^  Documeniary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  338-339. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCLVIII  475 

old  Confederation  operating  on  States;  but  like  that  of  ordinary 
Governments  operating  on  individuals;  &  the  substitution  of  '* United 
States"  for  ^'National"  noted  in  the  journal,  was  not  designed  to 
change  the  meaning  of  the  latter,  but  to  guard  agt.  a  mistake  or 
misrepresentation  of  what  was  intended.  The  term  "National" 
was  used  in  the  original  propositions  ofiFered  on  the  part  of  the  Virga. 
Deputies,  not  one  of  whom  attached  to  it  any  other  meaning  than 
that  here  explained.  Mr.  Randolph  himself  the  organ  of  the  Depu- 
tation, on  the  occasion,  was  a  strenuous  advocate  for  the  federal 
quality  of  limited  &  specified  powers;  8c  finally  refused  to  sign  the 
constitution  because  its  powers  were  not  sufficiently  limited  &  de- 
defined.  

CCCLVIII.   James  Madison  to  S.  H.  Smfth.* 

Montpr.  Feby.  2.  1827. 

I  have  great  respect  for  your  suggestion  with  respect  to  the  season 
for  making  public  what  I  have  preserved  of  the  proceedings  of  the 
Revolutionary  Congress,  and  of  the  General  Convention  of  1787. 
But  I  have  not  yet  ceased  to  think,  that  publications  of  them,  post- 
humous as  to  others  as  well  as  myself,  may  be  most  delicate  and  most 
useful  also,  if  to  be  so  at  all.  As  no  personal  or  party  views  can  then 
be  imputed,  they  will  be  read  with  less  of  personal  or  party  feelings, 
and  consequently,  with  whatever  profit,  may  be  promised  by  them. 
It  is  true  also  that  after  a  certain  date,  the  older  such  things  grow, 
the  more  they  are  relished  as  new;  the  distance  of  time  like  that  of 
space  from  which  they  are  received,  giving  them  that  attractive 
character 

It  cannot  be  very  long  however  before  the  living  obstacles  to 
the  forthcomings  in  question,  will  be  removed.  Of  the  members 
of  Congress  during  the  period  embraced,  the  lamps  of  all  are  extinct, 
with  the  exception  I  believe  of  2.  Rd.  Peters,  &  myself;  and  of  the 
signers  of  the  Constitution,  of  all  but  3.  R.  King,  Wm.  Few  ai^d  my- 
self; and  of  the  lamps  still  burning,  none  can  now  be  far  from  the 
Socket.  

CCCLIX.   James  Madison  to  Edward  Everett.* 

Montpellier  June  3d.  1827  — 

I  offer  for  your  brother  and  yourself  the  thanks  I  owe  for  the 

copy  of  his  work  on  "America".    .  .  .    One  error  into  which  the 

author  has  been  led,  will  I  am  sure  be  gladly  corrected.     In  page  109. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  339-340. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  341. 


476     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

it  is  said  of  Washington  that  he  ^^  appears  to  have  wavered  for  a 
moment  in  making  up  his  mind  upon  the  constitution".  I  can  tes- 
tify from  my  personal  knowledge,  that  no  member  of  the  Conven- 
tion appeared  to  sign  the  Instrument  with  more  cordiality  than  he 
did,  nor  to  be  more  anxious  for  its  ratification.  I  have  indeed  the 
most  tho.«x)ugh  conviction  from  the  best  evidence,  that  he  never 
wavered  in  the  part  he  took  in  giving  it  his  sanction  and  support. 
The  error  may  perhaps  have  arisen  from  his  backwardness  in  accept- 
ing his  appointment  to  the  Convention,  occasioned  by  peculiar  con- 
siderations which  may  be  seen  in  the  5th.  volume  of  his  Biographer 
(Marshall).  

CCCLX.   Timothy  Pickering  to  William  Jackson.* 

Philadelphia,    Septr.  2,  1827. 
Permit  me  also  to  urge  your  preparing  those  speeches  in  the  Gen- 
eral Convention  which  formed  the  Constitution  of  the  U.  States, 
of  which  you  took  abbreviated  notes,  and  which  yourself  alone  can 
write  out  at  full  length.  

CCCLXI.   James  Madison  to  George  Mason.' 

MontpelHer,  Deer  29,  1827. 
The  public  situation  in  which  I  had  the  best  opportunity  of  being 
acquainted  with  the  genius,  the  opinions,  and  the  public  labours 
of  Col.  Mason,  was  that  of  our  co-service  in  the  Convention  of  1787, 
which  formed  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  The  objec- 
tions which  led  him  to  withhold  his  name  from  it  have  been  explained 
by  himself.  But  none  who  differed  from  him  on  some  points  will 
deny  that  he  sustained  throughout  the  proceedings  of  the  body  the 
high  character  of  a  powerful  reasoner,  a  profound  statesmen,  and  a 
devoted  Republican.  

CCCLXII.    Timothy  Pitkin:  on  Signing  the  Constitution.* 

Of  the  fifty-five  members  who  attended  this  convention,  thirty- 
nine  signed  the  constitution:  of  the  remaining  sixteen,  some  in  favor 
of  it  were  obliged  from  particular  business  to  leave  the  convention 
before  it  was  ready  for  signing.  (This,  we  are  assured,  was  the  case 
with  Caleb  Strong,  of  Massachusetts,  Oliver  Ellsworth  of  Connecti- 
cut, and  Mr.  Davie  of  North  Carolina.) 

^  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  Pickering  MSS.,  16,  214. 

•  LetUrs  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison^  III,  607. 

*  Hmothy  Pitkin,  Political  and  Civil  History  of  the  Uniud  States  (Gjpyright, 
January,  1828),  II,  262,  note. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXIII  477 

CCCLXIIL   Jaues  Madison  to  Martin  Van  Buren.^ 

May  13  1828. 

You  will  not  I  am  sure,  take  it  amiss  if  I  here  point  to  an  ertor 
of  facty  in  your  "observations  on  Mr.  Foot's  amendment."  It 
struck  me  when  first  reading  them,  but  escaped  my  attention  -when 
thanking  you  for  the  copy  with  which  you  favored  me. — ^The  threat- 
fling  contest^  in  the  Convention  of  1787.  did  not,  as  you  supposed, 
turn  on  the  degree  of  power  to  be  granted  to  the  Federal  Govt:  but 
on  the  rule  by  which  the  States  should  be  represented  and  vote 
in  the  Govt:  the  smaller  States  insisting  on  the  rule  of  equality  in 
all  respects;  the  larger  on  the  rule  of  proportion  to  inhabitants: 
and  the  Compromize  which  ensued  was  that  which  established  an 
equality  in  the  Senate,  and  an  inequality  in  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives. 

The  contests  &  compromises,  turning  on  the  grants  of  power, 
tho'  very  important  in  some  instances,  were  Knots  of  a  less  "Gor- 
dian"  charactei*.  

CCCLXIV.   James  Madison  to  J.  C.  Cabell.* 

Montpr.  Sepr.  18  1828. 
8  That  the  encouragement  of  Manufactures,  was  an  object 
of  the  power  to  regulate  trade,  is  proved  by  the  use  made  of  the  power 
for  that  object,  in  the  first  session  of  the  first  Congress  under  the 
Constitution;  when  among  the  members  present  were  so  many  who 
had  been  members  of  the  federal  Convention  which  framed  the  Con- 
stitution, and  of  the  State  Conventions  which  ratified  it;  each  of 
these  classes  consisting  also  of  members  who  had  opposed  &  who  had 
espoused,  the  Constitution  in  its  actual  form.  It  does  not  appear 
from  the  printed  proceedings  of  Congress  on  that  occasion  that  the 
power  was  denied  by  any  of  them.  And  it  may  be  remarked  that 
members  from  Virga.  in  particular,  as  well  of  the  antifederal  as  the 
federal  party,  the  names  then  distinguishing  those  who  had  opposed 
and  those  who  had  approved  the  Constitution,  did  not  hesitate  to 
propose  duties,  &  to  suggest  even  prohibition  in  favor  of  several 
articles  of  her  production;     

CCCLXV.    James  Madison  to  J.  C.  Cabell.* 

Montpellier  Feby.  2.  1829 — 
What  the  extract  is  to  be  from  Yates  account  of  the  Conven- 
tion,  which   convicts   me  of  inconsistency,   I   cannot  divine  —  If 

*  Documentary  History  of  tfu  Constitution^  V,  343-344. 
■  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  346-348. 

•  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  349-350. 


478     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

any  thing  stated  by  him  has  that  tendency,  it  must  be  among  the 
many  errors  in  his  crude  &,  broken  notes  of  what  passed  in  that 
Body.  When  I  looked  over  them  some  years  ago,  I  was  struck  with 
a  number  of  instances  in  which  he  had  totally  mistaken  what  was 
said  by  me,  or  given  it  in  scraps  &  terms,  which,  taken  without  the 
developments  or  qualifications  accompanying  them,  had  an  import 
essentially  difiFerent  from  what  was  intended.  Mr.  Yates  bore  the 
character  of  an  honest  man,  &  I  do  not  impute  to  him  wilful  misrep- 
resentation. But  beside  the  fallible  &,  faulty  mode  in  which  he  noted 
down  what  passed,  the  prejudices  he  felt  on  the  occasion,  with  those 
of  which  he  was  a  Representative,  were  such  as  to  give  every  tinc- 
ture &  warp  to  his  mind  of  which  an  honest  one  could  be  susceptable. 
It  is  to  be  recollected  too  that  he  was  present  during  the  early  dis- 
cussions only,  which  were  of  a  more  loose  &  general  cast;  having 
withdrawn  to  make  his  welcome  Report,  before  the  rough  materials 
were  reduced  to  the  size  Sc  shape  proper  for  the  contemplated  Edi- 
fice. Certain  it  is  that  I  shall  never  admit  his  report  as  a  test  of 
my  opinions,  when  not  in  accordance  with  those  which  have  been 
repeatedly  explained  &  authenticated  by  myself.  The  Report  of 
Luther  Martin  is  as  little  to  be  relied  on  for  accuracy  &  fairness. 


CCCLXVI.  James  Madison  to  J.  C.  Cabell.^ 

Montpellier,  February  13,  1829. 
For  a  like  reason,  I  made  no  reference  to  the  ''power  to  regulate 
commerce  among  the  several  States."  I  always  foresaw  that  difiSi- 
culties  might  be  started  in  relation  to  that  power  which  could  not  be 
fully  explained  without  recurring  to  views  of  it,  which,  however  just, 
might  give  birth  to  specious  though  unsound  objections.  Being  in  the 
same  terms  with  the  power  over  foreign  commerce,  the  same  extent, 
if  taken  literally,  would  belong  to  it.  Yet  it  is  very  certain  that  it 
grew  out  of  the  abuse  of  the  power  by  the  importing  States  in  taxing 
the  non-importing,  and  was  intended  as  a  negative  and  preventive 
provision  against  injustice  among  the  States  themselves,  rather  than 
as  a  power  to  be  used  for  the  positive  purposes  of  the  General  Gov- 
ernment, in  which  alone,  however,  the  remedial  power  could  be  lodged. 


CCCLXVII.   Jared  Sparks:  Journal.* 

[1830],  Jpril  19th.    It  was  necessary  for  the  old  Congress  to  sit 
with  closed  doors,  because  it  was  the  executive  as  well  as  legislative 


*  LetUrs  and  othit  Writings  of  James  Madison^  IV,  14-15. 
«H.  B.  Adams,  Life  and  Writings  of  Jared  Sparks,  I,  560-564;   II,  3I-36* 
Notes  of  a  visit  to  James  Madison. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXVII  479 

body;  names  of  persons  and  characters  came  perpetually  before 
them;  and  much  business  was  constantly  on  hand  which  would 
have  been  embarassed  if  it  had  gone  to  the  public  before  it  was 
finished.  It  was  likewise  best  for  the  convention  for  forming  the  Con- 
stitution to  sit  with  closed  doors,  because  opinions  were  so  various 
and  at  first  so  crude  that  it  was  necessary  they  should  be  long  debated 
before  any  uniform  system  of  opinion  could  be  formed.  Meantime 
the  minds  of  the  members  were  changing,  and  much  was  to  be  gained 
by  a  yielding  and  accommodating  spirit.  Had  the  members  com- 
mitted themselves  publicly  at  first,  they  would  have  afterwards 
supposed  consistency  required  them  to  maintain  their  ground, 
whereas  by  secret  discussion  no  man  felt  himself  obliged  to  retain 
his  opinions  any  longer  than  he  was  satisfied  of  their  propriety  and 
truth,  and  was  open  to  the  force  of  argument.  Mr.  Madison  thinks 
no  Constitution  would  ever  have  been  adopted  by  the  convention 
if  the  debates  had  been  public.  No  chaplain  was  chosen  for  the 
convention  at  any  period  of  its  session,  although  Dr.  Franklin  pro- 
posed one,  as  has  been  reported,  after  the  convention  had  been  some 
time  sitting.     .  .  . 

In  the  recent  "History  of  the  Convention  for  Framing  the  Con- 
stitution," published  by  order  of  the  government  in  connection  with 
the  "Secret  Journal,"  there  is  a  draft  of  a  Constitution  said  to  have 
been  presented  by  Charles  Pinckney.  It  is  remarkable  for  contain- 
ing several  important  features  in  exact  accordance  with  the  Consti- 
tution as  it  was  passed.  This  is  the  more  strange,  as  some  of  these 
very  points  grew  out  of  the  long  debates  which  followed  the  presen- 
tation of  the  draft. 

Mr.  Madison  seems  a  good  deal  perplexed  on  the  subject.  He 
says  Charles  Pinckney  presented  a  draft  at  the  beginning  of  the  ses- 
sion, that  it  went  to  a  committee  with  other  papers,  and  was  no  more 
heard  of  during  the  convention.  It  was  not  preserved  among  the 
papers  on  the  files  of  the  convention.  When  the  above-mentioned 
history  was  published,  Mr.  J.  Q.  Adams  was  Secretary  of  State,  and 
prepared  the  manuscript  for  the  press.  He  wrote  to  Mr.  Pinckney 
for  a  copy  of  his  draft,  and  received  from  him  that  which  was  printed. 
How  it  happened  that  it  should  contain  such  particulars  as  it  does, 
Mr.  Madison  cannot  tell;  but  he  is  perfectly  confident  that  they 
could  not  have  been  contained  in  the  original  draft  as  presented  by 
Mr.  Pinckney,  because  some  of  them  were  the  results  of  subsequent 
discussions.  Mr.  Madison  supposes  that  Mr.  Pinckney  must  at 
the  time  have  added  certain  points  as  the  convention  proceeded, 
particularly  such  as  he  approved,  and  as  he  thought  would  make  his 
draft  more  perfect,  and  that  this  altered  draft  had  lain  by  him  till 


480     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

he  had  forgotten  what  parts  were  changed  or  improved;  and  thus  he 
copied  the  whole.  But  however  this  may  be  explained,  says  Mr. 
Madison,  it  certainly  is  not  the  draft  originally  presented  to  the 
convention  by  Mr.  Pinckney.  It  is  obvious  that  Mr.  Madison 
feels  some  embarrassment  on  the  subject,  because  in  his  papers  on 
the  convention  he  has  probably  ascribed  several  of  these  particulars 
to  the  Virginia  delegates,  from  whom  they  originated;  and  when  his 
papers  shall  be  made  public,  there  will  be  found  a  discrepancy 
between  them  and  Pinckney's  draft.  After  the  draft  was  printed, 
he  intended  to  write  to  Mr.  Pinckney  asking,  and  even  requiring,  an 
explanation;  but  Mr.  Pinckney  died,  and  the  opportunity  was  lost. 
It  is  known  that  Mr.  Madison  took  down  sketches  of  the  debates 
of  the  convention,  and  preserved  copies  of  all  the  important  pro- 
ceedings. He  told  me  that  nothing  of  his  would  come  out  till  after 
his  death.     .  .  . 

April  isthy  Wednesday,  — .  .  .  Rode  thence  to  Mr.  Madison's, 
.  .  .  where  I  spent  the  day  most  agreeably.     .  .  . 

The  following  anecdote  he  also  mentioned  as  a  remarkable 
instance  of  the  failure  of  memory:  — 

It  is  well  known  that  Hamilton  inclined  to  a  less  democratical 
form  of  government  than  the  one  that  was  adopted,  although  he  was 
a  zealous  friend  of  the  Constitution  in  its  present  shape  after  it  had 
received  the  sanction  of  the  Convention.  He  considered  it  less  per- 
fect than  it  might  have  been,  yet  he  thought  it  an  immense  improve- 
ment on  the  old  confederation.  He  drew  up  a  plan  in  accordance 
with  his  own  views,  which  he  put  into  the  hands  of  Mr.  Madison, 
who  took  a  copy  of  it,  and  returned  the  original  to  the  author,  tell- 
ing him  at  the  same  time  that  he  had  preserved  a  copy.  Mr.  Madison 
says  he  knew  not  Hamilton's  motive  for  doing  this,  unless  it  was  for 
the  purpose  of  securing  a  written  record  of  his  views,  which  might 
afford  a  ready  confutation  of  any  future  false  statements  respecting 
them. 

Some  time  after  the  Convention  a  report  went  abroad  that 
Hamilton  was  in  favor  of  a  system  approaching  a  monarchy,  and 
particularly  that  he  wished  the  President  to  be  elected  for  life. 
Mr.  Pickering  wrote  to  Hamilton  asking  if  this  report  was  true;  to 
which  he  replied  in  the  negative,  and  added,  moreover,  that,  so  far 
from  its  being  true,  he  proposed  the  presidential  office  to  continue 
for  three  years  only,  as  would  he  seen  by  his  plan  of  a  Constitution 
put  by  him  into  the  hands  of  Mr.  Madison.  Now  it  is  remarkable 
that,  on  this  very  plan,  the  duration  of  the  presidential  office  is  fixed 
during  good  behavior.  Mr.  Madison  expressed  his  belief  very 
decidedly  that  this  mistake  arose  from  a  want  of  recollection,  for  it 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXVIII  48 1 

was  impossible  that  he  should  make  the  statement,  and  refer  to  the 
only  source  where  it  could  be  confuted,  if  he  meant  to  deceive.    .  .  . 

In  the  Convention  Dr.  Franklin  seldom  spoke.  As  he  was  too 
feeble  to  stand  long  at  a  time,  his  speeches  were  generally  written. 
He  would  arise  and  ask  the  favor  of  one  of  his  colleagues  to  read 
what  he  had  written.  Occasionally,  however,  he  would  make  short 
extemporaneous  speeches  with  great  pertinency  and  eflfect.     .  .  . 

It  was  Mr.  Madison's  custom,  after  he  entered  Congress,  to  take 
memoranda  of  the  debates,  rough  sketches  and  copies  of  all  the 
principal  papers.  The  debates  and  proceedings  of  the  Convention 
for  adopting  the  Constitution  he  took  much  pains  to  record  at  the 
time,  and  has  preserved  the  whole.  Yate's  book  he  speaks  of  as 
extremely  imperfect,  the  author  having  been  absent  a  good  deal 
of  the  time,  and  both  he  and  Lansing  strenuously  opposed  to  the 
Constitution.     .  .  . 

May  4ihy  Tuesday.  —  I  mentioned  to  Mr.  Adams  (J.  Q.)  what 
Mr.  Madison  had  said  to  me  respecting  Charles  Pinckney's  draft 
of  a  Constitution.  Mr.  Adams  said  that  he  prepared  the  manuscript 
of  the  history  of  the  convention  published  by  order  of  Congress, 
that  the  materials  in  the  Department  of  State  were  very  defective; 
that  Pinckney's  draft  was  not  there;  that  he  wrote  to  him  for  a  copy, 
and  received  from  him  the  one  that  is  printed,  together  with  a  letter, 
in  which  he  claimed  to  himself  great  merit  for  the  part  he  took  in 
framing  the  Constitution.  Mr.  Adams  said  he  spoke  once  to  Mr. 
Rufus  King  on  the  subject  of  the  draft,  who  replied  that  Mr.  Pinck- 
ney  presented  a  draft,  or  a  sketch  of  some  sort,  at  the  beginning  of 
the  convention,  which  went  with  other  papers  to  a  committee,  and 
was  never  afterwards  heard  of.  This  accords  with  what  Mr.  Mad- 
ison told  me.  

CCCLXVIII.   John  Quincy  Adams:  Memoirs.* 

[1830,  May]  4th.  Mr.  Sparks  called  .  .  .  Sparks  said  he  had 
been  spending  a  week  at  Mr.  Madison's,  who  spoke  to  him  much  of 
the  proceedings  and  published  Journal  of  the  Convention  of  1787. 
He  said  he  knew  not  what  to  make  of  the  plan  of  Constitution  in 
that  volume  purporting  to  have  been  presented  by  Charles  Pinck- 
ney,  of  South  Carolina.  He  said  there  was  a  paper  presented  by 
that  person  to  the  Convention,  but  it  was  nothing  like  the  paper  now 
in  the  book.  It  was  referred  to  the  committee  who  drafted  the  plan 
of  the  Constitution,  and  was  never  afterwards  in  any  manner  referred 
to  or  noticed.     In  the  book  it  has  the  appearance  as  if  it  was  the  orig- 

» Vol.  VIII,  214-225. 


482     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

inal  draft  of  the  Constitution  itself,  and  as  if  that  which  was  finally 
adopted  was  Pinckney's  plan,  with  a  very  few  slight  alterations. 
I  told  Mr.  Sparks  that  Rufus  King  had  spoken  to  me  of  C.  Pinck- 
ney's paper  precisely  in  the  same  manner  as  he  says  Mr.  Madison 
now  does;  that  it  was  a  paper  to  which  no  sort  of  attention  was  paid 
by  the  Convention,  except  that  of  referring  it  to  the  committee, 
but  when  I  compiled  the  Journal  of  the  Convention,  Charles  Pinck- 
ney  himself  sent  me  the  plan  now  in  the  book,  as  the  paper  which  he 
had  presented  to  the  Convention;  and  with  it  he  wrote  me  a  letter, 
which  obviously  held  the  pretension  that  the  whole  plan  of  Constitu- 
tion was  his,  and  that  the  Convention  had  done  nothing  more  than 
to  deteriorate  his  work  by  altering  some  of  his  favorite  provisions. 
Sparks  said  Mr.  Madison  added  that  this  plan  now  in  the  book 
contained  several  things  which  could  not  possibly  have  been  in 
Pinckney's  paper,  but  which  rose  out  of  the  debates  upon  the  plan 
of  Constitution  reported  by  the  committee.  He  conjectured  that 
Mr.  Pinckney's  memory  failed  him,  and  that,  instead  of  a  copy  of 
the  paper  which  he  did  present,  he  had  found  a  copy  of  the  plan 
reported  by  the  committee  with  interlined  amendments,  perhaps 
proposed  by  him,  and,  at  a  distance  of  more  than  thirty  years,  had 
imagined  it  was  his  own  plan. 


CCCLXIX.   Jarbd  Sparks  to  James  Madison.^ 

Washington,  May  5th.  1830 
Since  my  return  I  have  conversed  with  Mr  Adams  concerning 
Charles  Pinckney's  draft  of  a  constitution.  He  says  it  was  fur- 
nished by  Mr.  Pinckney,  and  that  he  has  never  been  able  to  hear  of 
another  copy.  It  was  accompanied  by  a  long  letter  (written  in 
1819)  now  in  the  Department  of  State,  in  which  Mr  Pinckney  claims 
to  himself  great  merit  for  the  part  he  took  in  framing  the  constitu- 
tion. A  copy  of  this  letter  may  doubtless  be  procured  from  Mr 
Brent,  should  you  desire  to  see  it.  Mr  Adams  mentioned  the  draft 
once  to  Mr  Rufus  King,  who  said  he  remembered  such  a  draft,  but 
that  it  went  to  a  committee  with  other  papers,  and  was  never  heard 
of  afterwards.  Mr  King's  views  of  the  subject,  as  far  as  I  could 
collect  them  from  Mr  Adams,  were  precisely  such  as  you  expressed. 


CCCLXX.   Jaues  Madison  to  M.  L.  Hurlbert.* 

Montpellier,  May,  1830. 
And  if  I  am  to  answer  yt>ur  appeal  to  me  as  a  witness,  I  must  say 

'  Documentary  Histoty  of  tki  Constiiution,  V,  3SO-551. 
'  LeUers  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison,  IV,  74. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXI  483 

that  the  real  measure  of  the  powers  meant  to  be  granted  to  Congress 
by  the  Convention,  as  I  understood  and  believe,  is  to  be  sought  in 
the  specifications,  to  be  expounded,  indeed,  not  with  the  strictness 
applied  to  an  ordinary  statute  by  a  court  of  law,  nor,  on  the  other 
hand,  with  a  latitude  that,  under  the  name  of  means  for  carrying 
into  execution  a  limited  Government,  would  transform  it  into  a 
Government  without  limits.  

CCCLXXI.   Jaubs  Madison  to  James  Hillhouse.^ 

Montpellier,  May  — ,  1830. 
The  difficulty  of  reconciling  the  larger  States  to  the  equality  in 
the  Senate,  is  known  to  have  been  the  most  threatening  that  was 
encountered  in  framing  the  Constitution.  It  is  known,  also,  that 
the  powers  committed  to  that  body,  comprehending,  as  they  do. 
Legislative,  Executive,  and  Judicial  functions,  was  among  the  most 
serious  objections,  with  many,  to  the  adoption  of  the  Constitution. 


CCCLXXII.   James  Madison  to  Andrew  Stevenson.* 

Montpr.  Novr.  17.  1830 
I  have  reed,  your  very  friendly  favor  of  the  20th  instant,  refer- 
ring to  a  conversation  when  I  had  lately  the  pleasure  of  a  visit  from 
you,  in  which  you  mentioned  your  belief  that  the  terms  "common 
defence  &  general  welfare"  in  the  8th.  Section  of  the  first  Article  of 
the  Constitution  of  the  U.  S.  were  still  regarded  by  some  as  convey- 
ing tp  Congress  a  substantive  &  indefinite  power;  and  in  which  I 
communicated  my  views  of  the  introduction  and  occasion  of  the 
terms,  as  precluding  that  comment  on  them;  and  you  express  a  wish 
that  I  would  repeat  those  views  in  the  answer  to  your  letter. 

However  disinclined  to  the  discussion  of  such  topics  at  a  time 
when  it  is  so  difficult  to  separate  in  the  minds  of  many,  questions 
purely  Constitutional  from  the  party  polemics  of  the  day,  I  yield 
to  the  precedents  which  you  think  I  have  imposed  on  myself,  &  to 
the  consideration  that  without  relying  on  my  personal  recollections, 
which  your  partiality  overvalues,  I  shall  derive  my  construction  of 
the  passage  in  question,  from  sources  of  information  8c  evidence 
known  or  accessible  to  all  who  feel  the  importance  of  the  subject, 
and  are  disposed  to  give  it  a  patient  examination. 

In  tracing  the  history  &  determining  the  import  of  the  terms 
"Common  defence  &  general  welfare"  as  found  in  the  text  of  the 

*  Letters  and  other  WrUings  of  James  Madison,  IV,  77. 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  352-365. 


484     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Constitution  the  following  lights  are  furnished  by  the  printed  Jour- 
nal of  the  Convention  which  formed  it. 

The  terms  appear  in  the  general  propositions  offered  May  29  as 
a  basis  for  the  incipient  deliberations,  the  first  of  which  "Resolved 
that  the  Articles  of  the  Confederation  ought  to  be  so  corrected  & 
enlarged  as  to  accomplish  the  objects  proposed  by  their  institution, 
namely  —  common  defence,  security  of  liberty,  and  general  welfare". 
On  the  day  following,  the  proposition  was  exchanged  for  Resolved 
''that  an  Union  of  the  States  merely  federal  will  not  accomplish  the 
objects  proposed  by  the  Articles  of  Confederation;  namely,  common 
defence,  security  of  liberty  and  general  welfare". 

The  inference  from  the  use  here  made  of  the  terms,  &  from  the 
proceedings  on  the  subsequent  propositions  is,  that  altho'  Common 
defence  &  general  welfare  were  objects  of  the  Confederation,  they 
were  limited  objects,  which  ought  to  be  enlarged  by  an  enlargement 
of  the  particular  powers  to  which  they  were  limited  —  and  to  be 
accomplished  by  a  change  in  the  structure  of  the  Union  from  a  form 
merely  federal  to  one  partly  national,  and  as  these  general  terms 
are  prefixed  in  the  like  relation  to  the  several  Legislative  powers  in 
the  new  Charter,  as  they  were  in  the  Old,  they  must  be  understood 
to  be  under  like  limitations  in  the  new  as  in  the  Old. 

In  the  course  of  the  proceedings  between  the  30th.  of  May  & 
the  6th.  of  Augt.  the  terms  Common  defence  &  General  welfare  as 
well  as  other  equivalent  terms  must  have  been  dropped:  for  they  do 
not  appear  in  the  Draft  of  a  Constitution,  reported  on  that  day,  by  a 
Committee  appointed  to  prepare  one  in  detail;  the  clause  in  which 
those  terms  were  afterwards  inserted,  being,  simply  in  the  Draft 
''The  Legislature  of  the  U.  S.  shall  have  power  to  lay  &  collect  taxes 
duties,  imposts  &  excises". 

The  manner  in  which  the  terms  became  transplanted  from  the 
Old  into  the  new  System  of  Government,  is  explained  by  a  course 
somewhat  adventitiously  given  to  the  proceedings  of  the  Convention. 

On  the  1 8th.  of  Augst.  among  other  propositions  referred  to  the 
Committee  which  had  reported  the  draft  was  one  "to  secure  the  pay- 
ment of  the  Public  debt.",  and, 

On  the  same  day,  was  appointed  a  Committee  of  Eleven  mem- 
bers, (one  from  each  State)  "to  consider  the  necessity  &  expediency 
of  the  debts  of  the  several  States ^  being  assumed  by  the  U.  States" 

On  the  2 1  St.  of  Augst.  this  last  Committee  reported  a  clause  in 
the  words  following  "The  Legislature  of  the  U.  States  shall  have 
power  to  fulfil  the  engagements,  which  have  been  entered  into  by  Con- 
gress, and  to  discharge  as  well  the  debts  of  the  U.  States,  as  the  debts 
incurred  by  the  several  States,  during  the  late  war^  for  the  common 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXII  485 

defence  and  general  welfare*^;  conforming  herein  to  the  8th.  of  the 
Articles  of  Confederation,  the  language  of  which  is,  that  "all  charges 
of  war  and  all  other  expences  that  shall  be  incurred  for  the  common 
defence  and  general  welfare,  and  allowed  by  the  U.  S  in  Congress 
assembled,  shall  be  defrayed  out  of  a  common  treasury"  &c. 

On  the  22d.  of  Augst.  the  Committee  of  five  reported  among 
other  additions  to  the  clause  giving  power  "to  lay  and  collect  taxes 
imposts  &  excises,"  a  clause  in  the  words  following  "for  payment 
of  the  debts  and  necessary  expences",  with  a  proviso  qualifying  the 
duration  of  Revenue  laws. 

This  Report  being  taken  up,  it  was  moved,  as  an  amendment, 
that  the  clause  should  read  "the  Legislature  shall  fulfil  the  engage- 
ments and  discharge  the  debts  of  the  U.  States" 

It  was  then  moved  to  strike  out  "discharge  the  debts",  and 
insert  "liquidate  the  claims";  which  being  rejected,  the  amendment 
was  agreed  to  as  proposed  viz  "  the  Legislature  shall  fulfil  the  engage- 
ments &  discharge  the  debts  of  the  U.  States". 

On  the  23d.  of  Augst.  the  clause  was  made  to  read  "the  Legis- 
lature shall  fulfil  the  engagements  and  discharge  the  debts  of  the  U. 
States,  and  shall  have  the  power  to  lay  &  collect  taxes  duties  imposts 
&  excises"  the  two  powers  relating  to  taxes  &  debts  being  merely 
transposed. 

On  the  25th.  of  August,  the  clause  was  again  altered  so  as  to 
read  "all  debts  contracted  and  engagements  entered  into  by  or  under 
the  authority  of  Congress  (the  Revolutionary  Congress)  shall  be 
as  valid  under  this  Constitution  as  under  the  Confederation" 

This  amendment  was  followed  by  a  proposition  (referring  to 
the  powers  to  lay  &  collect  taxes  &c  —  and  to  discharge  the  debts 
{old  debts)  to  add  "for  payment  of  said  debts,  and  for  defraying  the 
expences  that  shall  be  incurred  for  the  common  defence  y  general  toel" 
fare".    The  propostion  was  disagreed  to,  one  State  only  voting  for  it. 

Sepr.  4.  The  Committee  of  eleven  reported  the  following  modifi- 
cation —  "The  Legislature  shall  have  power  to  lay  &  collect  taxes 
duties  imposts  and  excises,  to  pay  the  debts  and  provide  for  the 
common  defence  &  general  welfare";  thus  retaining  the  terms  of 
the  Articles  of  Confederation,  &  covering  by  the  general  term 
"debts",  those  of  the  Old  Congress. 

A  special  provision  in  this  mode  could  not  have  been  necessary 
for  the  debts  of  the  New  Congress :  For  a  power  to  provide  money, 
and  a  power  to  perform  certain  acts  of  which  money  is  the  ordinary 
&  appropriate  means,  must  of  course  carry  with  them  a  power  to  pay 
the  expence  of  performing  the  acts.  Nor  was  any  special  provision 
for  debts  proposed,  till  the  case  of  the  Revolutionary  debts  was 


486     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

brought  into  view,  and  it  is  a  fair  presumption  from  the  course  of  the 
varied  propositions  which  have  been  noticed,  that  but  for  the  old 
debts,  and  their  association  with  the  terms  '^common  defence  &  gen- 
eral welfare",  the  clause  would  have  remained  as  reported  in  the  first 
Draft  of  a  Constitution,  expressing  generally  a  ''power  in  Congress  to 
lay  and  collect  taxes  duties  imposts  &  excises'';  without  any  addition 
of  the  phrase  "  to  provide  for  the  common  defence  &  general  welfare". 
With  this  addition  indeed  the  language  of  the  clause  being,  in  con- 
formity with  that  of  the  clause  in  the  Articles  of  Confederation,  it 
would  be  qualified,  as  in  those  Articles,  by  the  specification  of  powers 
subjoined  to  it.  But  there  is  sufficient  reason  to  suppose  that  the 
terms  in  question  would  not  have  been  introduced  but  for  the  intro- 
duction of  the  old  debts,  with  which  they  happened  to  stand  in  a 
familiar  tho'  inoperative  relation.  Thus  introduced  however,  they 
passed  undisturbed  thro'  the  subsequent  stages  of  the  Constitution. 

If  it  be  asked  why  the  terms  "common  defence  &  general  welfare", 
if  not  meant  to  convey  the  comprehensive  power,  which  taken  lit- 
erally they  express,  were  not  qualified  &  explained  by  some  refer- 
ence to  the  particular  powers  subjoined,  the  answer  is  at  hand,  that 
altho'  it  might  easily  have  been  done,  and  experience  shews  it  might 
be  well  if  it  had  been  done,  yet  the  omission  is  accounted  for  by  an 
inattention  to  the  phraseology,  occasioned,  doubtless,  by  its  iden- 
tity with  the  harmless  character  attached  to  it  in  the  Instrument 
from  which  it  was  borrowed 

But  may  it  not  be  asked  with  infinitely  more  propriety,  and  with- 
out the  possibility  of  a  satisfactory  answer,  why,  if  the  terms  were 
meant  to  embrace  not  only  all  the  powers  particularly  expressed, 
but  the  indefinite  power  which  has  been  claimed  under  them,  the 
intention  was  not  so  declared;  why  on  that  supposition,  so  much 
critical  labor  was  employed  in  enumerating  the  particular  powers; 
and  in  defining  and  limiting  their  extent? 

The  variations  &  vicissitudes  in  the  modifation  of  the  clause  in 
which  the  terms,  "common  defence  &  general  welfare"  appear,  are 
remarkable;  and  to  be  no  otherwise  explained,  than  by  differences 
of  opinion  concerning  the  necessity  or  the  form,  of  a  constitutional 
provision  for  the  debts  of  the  Revolution;  some  of  the  members, 
apprehending  improper  claims  for  losses,  by  depreciated  emissions 
of  bills  of  credit;  others  an  evasion  of  proper  claims  if  not  positively 
brought  within  the  authorized  functions  of  the  new  Govt;  and  others 
again  considering  the  past  debts  of  the  U.  States  as  sufficiently 
secured  by  the  principle  that  no  change  in  the  Govt,  could  change 
the  obligations  of  the  nation.  Besides  the  indications  in  the  Journal, 
the  history  of  the  period  sanctions  this  explanation. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXII  487 

But  it  is  to  be  emphatically  remarked,  that  in  the  multitude  of 
motions,  propositions,  and  amendments,  there  is  not  a  single  one 
having  reference  to  the  terms  "common  defence  &  general  welfare", 
unless  we  were  so  to  understand  the  proposition  containing  them, 
made  on  Aug.  25.  which  was  disagreed  to  by  all  the  States  except 
one.^ 

The  obvious  conclusion  to  which  we  are  brought  is,  that  these 
terms  copied  from  the  Articles  of  Confederation,  were  regarded  in 
the  new  as  in  the  old  Instrument  merely  as  general  terms,  explained 
&  limited  by  the  subjoined  specifications;  and  therefore  requiring 
no  critical  attention  or  studied  precaution 

If  the  practice  of  the  Revolutionary  Congress  be  pleaded  in 
opposition  to  this  view  of  the  case,  the  plea  is  met  by  the  notoriety 
that  on  several  accounts  the  practice  of  that  Body  is  not  the  expos- 
itor of  the  "Articles  of  Confederation".  These  Articles  were  not 
in  force  till  they  were  finally  ratified  by  Maryland  in  1781.  Prior 
to  that  event  the  power  of  Congress  was  measured  by  the  exigencies 
of  the  war,  and  derived  its  sanction  from  the  acquiescence  of  the 
States.  After  that  event,  habit  and  a  continued  expediency,  amount- 
ing often  to  a  real  or  apparent  necessity,  prolonged  the  exercise  of 
an  undefined  authority;  which  was  the  more  readily  overlooked;  as 
the  members  of  the  Body  held  their  seats  during  pleasure,  as  its 
Acts,  particularly  after  the  failure  of  the  Bills  of  Credit,  depended 
for  their  efllicacy  on  the  will  of  the  States;  and  as  its  general  impo- 
tency  became  manifest.  Examples  of  departure  from  the  prescribed 
rule,  are  too  well  known  to  require  proof.  The  case  of  the  old  Bank 
of  N.  America  might  be  cited  as  a  memorable  one.  The  incorporat- 
ing Ordinance  grew  out  of  the  inferred  necessity  of  such  an  Institu- 
tion to  carry  on  the  war,  by  aiding  the  finances  which  were  starving 
under  the  neglect  or  inability  of  the  States  to  furnish  their  assessed 
quotas.  Congress  was  at  the  time  so  much  aware  of  the  deficient 
authority,  that  they  recommended  it  to  the  State  Legislatures  to 
pass  laws  giving  due  eflFect  to  the  Ordinance:  which  was  done  by 
Pennsylvania  and  several  other  States.  In  a  little  time,  however, 
so  much  dissatisfaction  arose  in  Pennsylvania  where  the  Bank  was 
located,  that  it  was  proposed  to  repeal  the  law  of  the  State  in  sup- 
port of  it.  This  brought  on  attempts  to  vindicate  the  adequacy  of 
the  power  of  Congress,  to  incorporate  such  an  Institution.  Mr. 
Wilson,  justly  distinguished  for  his  intellectual  powers,  being  deeply 
impressed  with  the  importance  of  a  Bank  at  such  a  Crisis,  published 

^Crossed  out:  ''The  disagreement  however  was  probably  the  result  of  some 
other  consideration." 


488      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

a  small  pamphlet,  entitled  '^  Considerations  on  the  Bank  of  N. 
America",  in  which  he  endeavored  to  derive  the  power  from  the 
nature  of  the  Unions  in  which  the  Colonies  were  declared  &  became 
Independent  States;  and  also  from  the  tenor  of  the  ^'Articles  of  Con- 
federation" themselves.  But  what  is  particularly  worthy  of  notice 
iSy  that  with  all  his  anxious  search  in  those  Articles  for  such  a  power, 
he  never  glanced  at  the  terms  "Common  Defence  &  general  Wel- 
fare" as  a  source  of  it.  He  rather  chose  to  rest  the  claim  on  a  recital 
in  the  text,  "  that  for  the  more  convenient  management  of  the  general 
interests  of  the  United  States,  Delegates  shall  be  annually  appointed 
to  meet  in  Congress,  which  he  said  implied  that  the  United  States 
had  general  rights,  general  powers,  and  general  obligations;  not  derived 
from  any  particular  State,  nor  from  all  the  particular  States,  taken 
separately;  but  ^^ resulting  from  the  Union  of  the  whole"  these  gen- 
eral powers,  not  being  controuled  by  the  Article  declaring  that 
each  State  retained  all  powers  not  granted  by  the  Articles,  because 
"the  individual  States  never  possessed  &  could  not  retain  a  general 
power  over  the  others" 

The  authority  &  argument  here  resorted  to,  if  proving  the  ingen- 
uity &  patriotic  anxiety  of  the  author  on  one  hand,  shew  sufficiently 
on  the  other,  that  the  terms  "common  defence  &  general  welfare  cd. 
not  according  to  the  known  acceptation  of  them  avail  his  object. 

That  the  terms  in  question  were  not  suspected,  in  the  Conven- 
tion which  formed  the  Constitution  of  any  such  meaning  as  has  been 
constructively  applied  to  them,  may  be  pronounced  with  entire 
confidence.  For  it  exceeds  the  possibility  of  belief,  that  the  known 
advocates  in  the  Convention  for  a  jealous  grant  &  cautious  definition 
of  federal  powers,  should  have  silently  permitted  the  introduction 
of  words  or  phrases  in  a  sense  rendering  fruitless  the  restrictions  & 
definitions  elaborated  by  them. 

Consider  for  a  moment  the  immeasurable  difference  between  the 
Constitution  limited  in  its  powers  to  the  enumerated  objects;  and 
expanded  as  it  would  be  by  the  import  claimed  for  the  phraseology 
in  question.  The  difference  is  equivalent  to  two  Constitutions,  of 
characters  essentially  contrasted  with  each  other;  the  one  possess- 
ing powers  confined  to  certain  specified  cases;  the  other  extended  to 
all  cases  whatsoever:  For  what  is  the  case  that  would  not  be  embraced 
by  a  general  power  to  raise  money,  a  power  to  provide  for  the  gen- 
eral welfare,  and  a  power  to  pass  all  laws  necessary  &  proper  to  carry 
these  powers  into  execution;  all  such  provisions  and  laws  super- 
seding, at  the  same  times,  all  local  laws  &  constitutions  at  variance 
with  them.  Can  less  be  said  with  the  evidence  before  us  furnished 
by  the  Journal  of  the  Convention  itself,  than  that  it  is  impossible 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXII  489 

that  such  a  Constitution  as  the  latter  would  have  been  recom- 
mended to  the  States  by  all  the  members  of  that  Body  whose 
names  were  subscribed  to  the  Instrument. 

Passing  from  this  view  of  the  sense  in  which  the  terms  common 
defence  &  general  welfare  were  used  by  the  Framers  of  the  Constitu- 
tion, let  us  look  for  that  in  which  they  must  have  been  understood 
by  the  Conventions,  or  rather  by  the  people  who  thro'  their  Conven- 
tions, accepted  &  ratified  it.  And  here  the  evidence  is  if  possible 
still  more  irresistible,  that  the  terms  could  not  have  been  regarded 
as  giving  a  scope  to  federal  Legislation,  infinitely  more  objectionable, 
than  any  of  the  specified  powers  which  produced  such  strenuous 
opposition,  and  calls  for  amendments  which  might  be  safeguards 
against  the  dangers  apprehended  from  them. 

Without  recurring  to  the  published  debates  of  those  Conventions, 
which  as  far  as  they  can  be  relied  on  for  accuracy,  would  it  is  believed 
not  impair  the  evidence  furnished  by  their  recorded  proceedings,  it 
will  suffice  to  consult  the  lists  of  amendments  proposed  by  such  of 
the  Conventions  as  considered  the  powers  granted  to  the  new  Gov- 
ernment too  extensive  or  not  safely  defined. 

Besides  the  restrictive  &  explanatory  amendments  to  the  text 
of  the  constitution  it  may  be  observed,  that  a  long  list  was  premised 
under  the  name  &  in  the  nature  of  "Declarations  of  Rights";  all  of 
them  indicating  a  jealousy  of  the  federal  powers,  and  an  anxiety  to 
multiply  securities  against  a  constructive  enlargement  of  them. 
But  the  appeal  is  more  particularly  made  to  the  number  &  nature  of 
the  amendments  proposed  to  be  made  specific  &  integral  parts  of 
the  Constitutional  text. 

No  less  than  seven  States,  it  appears,  concurred  in  adding  to 
their  ratifications,  a  series  of  amendments,  wch  they  deemed  requi- 
site. Of  these  amendments  ninf  were  proposed  by  the  Convention 
of  Massachusetts;  fivf  by  that  of  S.  Carolina;  twelve  by  that  of  N. 
Hampshire;  twenty  by  that  of  Virginia;  thirty  three  by  that  of  N. 
York;  twenty  six  by  that  of  N.  Carolina;  twenty  one  by  that  of  R, 
Island. 

Here  are  a  majority  of  the  States,  proposing  amendments,  in 
one  instance  thirty  three  by  a  single  State;  all  of  them  intended  to 
circumscribe  the  powers  granted  to  the  General  Government  by 
explanations  restrictions  or  prohibitions,  without  including  a  single 
proposition  from  a  single  State,  referring  to  the  terms,  common  de- 
fence &  general  welfare;  which  if  understood  to  convey  the  asserted 
power,  could  not  have  failed  to  be  the  power  most  strenuously 
aimed  at  because  evidently  more  alarming  in  its  range,  than  all 
the  powers  objected  to  put  together.    And  that  the  terms  should 


490     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

have  passed  altogether  unnoticed  by  the  many  eyes  wch  saw  danger 
in  terms  &  phrases  employed  in  some  of  the  most  minute  &  limited 
of  the  enumerated  powers,  must  be  regarded  as  a  demonstration, 
that  it  was  taken  for  granted  that  the  terms  were  harmless,  because 
explained  &  limited,  as  in  the  *' Articles  of  Confederation",  by  the 
enumerated  powers  which  followed  them. 

A  like  demonstration,  that  these  terms  were  not  understood  in 
any  sense  that  could  invest  Congress  with  powers  not  otherwise 
bestowed  by  the  Constitutional  Charter  may  be  found  in  what 
passed  in  the  first  Session  of  the  first  Congress,  when  the  subject 
of  Amendments  was  taken  up,  with  the  conciliatory  view  of  freeing 
the  Constitution  from  objections  which  had  been  made  to  the  extent 
of  its  powers,  or  to  the  unguarded  terms  employed  in  describing 
them.  Not  only  were  the  terms  '^  common  defence  and  general 
welfare",  unnoticed  in  the  long  list  of  amendments  brought  forward 
in  the  outset;  but  the  Journals  of  Congs.  shew  that  in  the  progress 
of  the  discussions,  not  a  single  proposition  was  made  in  either  branch 
of  the  Legislature  which  referred  to  the  phrase  as  admitting  a  con- 
structive enlargement  of  the  granted  powers,  and  requiring  an  amend- 
ment guarding  against  it.  Such  a  forbearance  &  silence  on  such  an 
occasion,  and  among  so  many  members  who  belonged  to  the  part 
of  the  nation,  which  called  for  explanatory  &  restrictive  amendments, 
and  who  had  been  elected  as  known  advocates  for  them,  can  not  be 
accounted  for  without  supposing  that  the  terms  *^  common  defence 
&  general  welfare",  were  not  at  that  time  deemed  susceptible  of 
any  such  construction  as  has  since  been  applied  to  them. 

It  may  be  thought  perhaps,  due  to  the  subject,  to  advert  to 
a  letter  of  Octr.  5.  1787  to  Samuel  Adams  and  another  of  Ocr.  16  of 
the  same  year  to  the  Governor  of  Virginia,  from  R.  H.  Lee,  in  both 
which,  it  is  seen  that  the  terms  had  attracted  his  notice,  and  were 
apprehended  by  him  "to  submit  to  Congress  every  object  of  human 
Legislation".  But  it  is  particularly  worthy  of  Remark,  that  altho' 
a  member  of  the  Senate  of  the  U.  States,  when  Amendments  to  the 
Constitution  were  before  that  House,  and  sundry  additions  &  alter- 
ations were  there  made  to  the  list  sent  from  the  other,  no  notice 
was  taken  of  those  terms  as  pregnant  with  danger.  It  must  be 
inferred  that  the  opinion  formed  by  the  distinguished  member  at 
the  first  view  of  the  Constitution,  &  before  it  had  been  fully  dis- 
cussed, &  elucidated,  had  been  changed  into  a  conviction  that  the 
terms  did  not  fairly  admit  the  construction  he  had  originally  put  on 
them:  and  therefore  needed  no  explanatory  precaution  agst.  it.    ,  .  • 


APPENDIX  Ay   CCCLXXII  491 

Memorandum  not  used  in  Letter  to  Mr.  Stevenson} 

These  observations  will  be  concluded  with  a  notice  of  the  argu- 
ment in  favor  of  the  grant  of  a  full  power  to  provide  for  common 
defence  and  general  welfare,  drawn  from  the  punctuation  in  some 
editions  of  the  Constitution. 

According  to  one  mode  of  presenting  the  text,  it  reads  as  fol- 
lows: "Congress  shall  have  power  —  To  lay  and  collect  taxes,  duties, 
imposts,  and  excises;  to  pay  the  debts  and  provide  for  the  common 
defence  and  general  welfare  of  the  United  States;  but  all  duties, 
imposts,  and  excises,  shall  be  uniform."  To  another  mode,  the  same 
with  commas  vice  semicolons. 

According  to  the  other  mode,  the  text  stands  thus:  "Congress 
shall  have  power;  To  lay  and  collect  taxes,  duties,  imposts,  and  ex- 
cises: To  pay  the  debts  and  provide  for  the  common  defence  and 
general  welfare  of  the  United  States;  but  all  duties,  imposts,  and 
excises  shall  be  uniform  throughout  the  United  Sutes." 

And  from  this  view  of  the  text,  it  is  inferred  that  the  latter  sen- 
tence conveys  a  distinct  substantive  power  to  provide  for  the  com- 
mon defence  and  general  welfare.* 

Without  inquiring  how  far  the  text  in  this  form  would  convey 
the  power  in  question;  or  admitting  that  any  mode  of  presenting  or 
distributing  the  terms  could  invalidate  the  evidence  which  has  been 
exhibited,  that  it  was  not  the  intention  of  the  general  or  of  the  State 
Conventions  to  express,  by  the  use  of  the  terms  common  defence  and 
general  welfare,  a  substantive  and  indefinite  power;  or  to  imply 
that  the  general  terms  were  not  to  be  explained  and  limited  by  the 
specified  powers  succeeding  them,  in  like  manner  as  they  were 
explained  and  limited  in  the  former  Articles  of  Confederation  from 
which  the  terms  were  taken;  it  happens  that  the  authenticity  of 
the  punctuation  which  preserves  the  unity  of  the  clause  can  be  as 


*  LeUers  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison^  IV,  131-133. 
"G.  Hunt,  Writings  of  James  Madison,  IX  (1910),  413,  reproduces  this  passage 
as  follows: 

"  According  to  one  mode  of  presenting  the  text:  it  reads  as  follows:  Congress 
shall  have  power  To  lay  &  collect  taxes  duties-imposts  &  excises;  to  pay  the  debts 
ft  provide  for  the  C.  D.  &  G.  W.  of  the  U.  S.  but  all  duties  imposts  &  excises  shall 
be  uniform;  to  another  mode  the  same  with  commas — vice  semicolons. 

"  According  to  the  other  mode  the  text  stands  thus:  Congress  shall  have  power, 
To  lay  &  col.  tax,  ds.  imp.  &  excises; 

To  pay  the  debts  &  provide  for  the  Com.  d.  &  G.  W.  of  the  U.  S.; 
but  all  ds.  imp.  &  exes,  shall  be  uniform  throug:  the  U.  S. 
and  from  this  view  of  the  text,  it  is  inferred  that  the  latter  sentence  conveys  a  dis- 
tinct substantive  power  to  provide  for  the  C.  D.  &  G.  W." 


49^     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

satisfactorily  shown,  as  the  true  intention  of  the  parties  to  the  Con- 
stitution has  been  shown  in  the  language  used  by  them. 

The  only  instance  of  a  division  of  the  clause  afforded  by  the  jour- 
nal of  the  Convention  is  in  the  draught  of  a  Constitution  reported 
by  a  committee  of  five  members,  and  entered  on  the  12th  of  Sep- 
tember. 

But  that  this  must  have  been  an  erratum  of  the  pen  or  of  the 
press,  may  be  inferred  from  the  circumstance,  that,  in  a  copy  of 
that  report,  printed  at  the  time  for  the  use  of  the  members,  and  now 
in  my  possession,  the  text  is  so  printed  as  to  unite  the  parts  in  one 
substantive  clause;  an  inference  favoured  also  by  a  previous  report 
of  September  4,  by  a  committee  of  eleven,  in  which  the  parts  of  the 
clause  are  united,  not  separated. 

And  that  the  true  reading  of  the  Constitution,  as  it  passed,  is 
that  which  unites  the  parts,  is  abundantly  attested  by  the  following 
facts: 

1.  Such  is  the  form  of  the  text  in  the  Constitution  printed  at 
the  close  of  the  Convention,  after  being  signed  by  the  members, 
of  which  a  copy  is  also  now  in  my  possession. 

2.  The  case  is  the  same  in  the  Constitution  from  the  Conven- 
tion to  the  old  Congress,  as  printed  on  their  journal  of  September 
28,  1787,  and  transmitted  by  that  body  to  the  Legislatures  of  the 
several  States. 

3.  The  case  is  the  same  in  the  copies  of  the  transmitted  Consti- 
tution, as  printed  by  the  ratifying  States,  several  of  which  have  been 
examined;  and  it  is  a  presumption  that  there  is  no  variation  in  the 
others. 

The  text  is  in  the  same  form  in  an  edition  of  the  Constitution 
published  in  1814,  by  order  of  the  Senate;  as  also  in  the  Constitu- 
tion as  prefixed  to  the  edition  of  the  United  States;  in  fact,  the  pro- 
viso for  uniformity  is  itself  a  proof  of  identity  of  them. 

It  might,  indeed,  be  added,  that  in  the  journal  of  September  14, 
the  clause  to  which  the  proviso  was  annexed,  now  a  part  of  the  Con- 
stitution, viz:  "but  all  duties,  imposts,  and  excises,  shall  be  uniform 
throughout  the  United  States,''  is  called  the  "first,"  of  course  a 
"single"  clause.  And  it  is  obvious  that  the  uniformity  required 
by  the  proviso  implies  that  what  it  referred  to  was  a  part  of  the  same 
clause  with  the  proviso,  not  an  antecedent  clause  altogether  sepa- 
rated from  it. 

Should  it  be  not  contested  that  the  original  Constitution,  in  its 
engrossed  and  enrolled  state,  with  the  names  of  the  subscribing 
members  affixed  thereto,  presents  the  text  in  the  same  form,  that 
alone  must  extinguish  the  argument  in  question. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCLXXII  493 

If,  contrary  to  every  ground  of  confidence,  the  text,  in  its  orig- 
inal enrolled  document,  should  not  coincide  with  these  multiplied 
examples,  the  first  question  would  be  of  comparative  probability 
of  error,  even  in  the  enrolled  document,  and  in  the  number  and  vari- 
ety of  the  concurring  examples  in  opposition  to  it. 

And  a  second  question,  whether  the  construction  put  on  the 
text,  in  any  of  its  forms  or  punctuations,  ought  to  have  the  weight 
of  a  feather  against  the  solid  and  diversified  proofs  which  have  been 
pointed  out,  of  the  meaning  of  the  parties  to  the  Constitution. 

Supplement  to  the  letter  of  November  27 ^  1830,  to  A.  Stevenson^  on  the 
phrase  **  common  defence  and  general  welfare^  —  On  the  power 
of  indefinite  appropriation  of  money  by  Congress} 

It  is  not  to  be  forgotten,  that  a  distinction  has  been  introduced 
between  a  power  merely  to  appropriate  money  to  the  common  defence 
and  general  welfare,  and  a  power  to  employ  all  the  means  of  giving 
full  eflFect  to  objects  embraced  by  the  terms. 

I.  The  first  observation  to  be  here  made  is,  that  an  express 
power  to  appropriate  money  authorized  to  be  raised,  to  objects 
authorized  to  be  provided  for,  could  not,  as  seems  to  have  been  sup- 
posed, be  at  all  necessary;  and  that  the  insertion  of  the  power  "to 
pay  the  debts,"  &c.,  is  not  to  be  referred  to  that  cause.  It  has  been 
seen,  that  the  particular  expresssion  of  the  power  originated  in  a 
cautious  regard  to  debts  of  the  United  States  antecedent  to  the 
radical  change  in  the  Federal  Government;  and  that,  but  for  that 
consideration,  no  particular  expression  of  an  appropriating  power 
would  probably  have  been  thought  of.  An  express  power  to  raise 
money,  and  an  express  power  (for  example)  to  raise  an  army,  would 
surely  imply  a  power  to  use  the  money  for  that  purpose.  And  if  a 
doubt  could  possibly  arise  as  to  the  implication,  it  would  be  completely 
removed  by  the  express  power  to  pass  all  laws  necessary  and  proper 
in  such  cases.     .  .  . 

The  peculiar  structure  of  the  Government,  which  combines 
an  equal  representation  of  unequal  numbers  in  one  branch  of  the 
Legislature,  with  an  equal  representation  of  equal  numbers  in  the 
other,  and  the  peculiarity  which  invests  the  Government  with  selected 
powers  only,  not  intrusting  it  even  with  every  power  withdrawn  from 
the  local  governments,  prove  not  only  an  apprehension  of  abuse 
from  ambition  or  corruption  in  those  administering  the  Government, 
but  of  oppression  or  injustice  from  the  separate  interests  or  views 
of  the  constituent  bodies  themselves,  taking  effect  through  the  admin- 

1  Letters  and  other  Writings  of  Janus  Madison^  IV,  1 34-137. 


494       RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

istration  of  the  Government.  These  peculiarities  were  thought  to 
be  safeguards  due  to  minorities  having  peculiar  interests  or  institu- 
tions at  stake,  against  majorities  who  might  be  tempted  by  interest 
or  other  motives  to  invade  them.    .  .  • 

The  result  of  this  investigation  is,  that  the  terms  *' common 
defence  and  general  welfare"  owed  their  induction  into  the  text 
of  the  Constitution  to  their  connexion  in  the  "Articles  of  Confedera- 
tion/' from  which  they  were  copied,  with  the  debts  contracted  by 
the  old  Congress,  and  to  be  provided  for  by  the  new  Congress;  and 
are  used  in  the  one  instrument  as  in  the  other,  as  general  terms, 
limited  and  explained  by  the  particular  clauses  subjoined  to  the 
clause  containing  them;  that  in  this  light  they  were  viewed  through- 
out the  recorded  proceedings  of  the  Convention  which  framed  the 
Constitution;  that  the  same  was  the  light  in  which  they  were  viewed 
by  the  State  Conventions  which  ratified  the  Constitution,  as  is  shown 
by  the  records  of  their  proceedings;  and  that  such  was  the  case  also 
in  the  first  Congress  under  the  Constitution,  according  to  the  evi* 
dence  of  their  journals,  when  digesting  the  amendments  afterward 
made  to  the  Constitution. 

CCCLXXIIL   James  Madison  to  J.  K.  Teft.* 

December  3d,  1830. 
In  the  year  1828  I  received  from  J.  V.  Bevan  sundry  numbers 
of  the  "Savannah  Georgian,"  containing  continuations  of  the  notes 
of  Major  Pierce  in  the  Federal  Convention  of  1787.  They  were 
probably  sent  on  account  of  a  marginal  suggestion  of  inconsistency 
between  language  held  by  me  in  the  Convention  with  regard  to  the 
Executive  veto,  and  the  use  made  of  the  power  by  myself,  when  in 
the  Executive  Administration.'  The  inconsistency  is  done  away  by 
the  distinction,  not  adverted  to,  between  an  absolute  veto,  to  which 
the  language  was  applied,  and  the  qualified  veto  which  was  exercised. 


CCCLXXIV.   Jaiies  Madison  to  Reynolds  Chapman.' 

January  6,  1 831. 
Perhaps  I  ought  not  to  omit  the  remark,  that  although  I  concur 
in  the  defect  of  powers  in  Congress  on  the  subject  of  internal  improve- 
ments, my  abstract  opinion  has  been,  that,  in  the  case  of  canals 
particularly,  the  power  would  have  been  properly  vested  in  Con- 

'  LeUifs  and  oUur  Writings  of  Janus  Madison,  IV,  I39-I4a 
*The  mai^ginal  note  in  the  Savannah  Georgian  reads:  "This  same  Mr.  Madison  did 
so  when  President.    Eds.  Geo.*'    (American  Historical  Review,  III,  p.  322  note  4). 
*  Letters  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison,  IV,  149. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCLXXV  495 

gress.  It  was  more  than  once  proposed  in  the  Convention  of  1787, 
and  rejected  from  an  apprehension,  chiefly,  that  it  might  prove  an 
obstacle  to  the  adoption  of  the  Constitution.  Such  an  addition 
to  the  Federal  powers  was  thought  to  be  strongly  recommended 
by  several  considerations:  i.  As  Congress  would  possess,  exclu- 
sively, the  sources  of  revenue  most  productive  and  least  unpopular, 
that  body  ought  to  provide  and  apply  the  means  for  the  greatest 
and  most  costly  works.  2.  There  would  be  cases  where  canals 
would  be  highly  important  in  a  national  view,  and  not  so  in  a  local 
view.  3.  Cases  where,  though  highly  important  in  a  national  view, 
they  might  violate  the  interest,  real  or  supposed,  of  the  State  through 
which  they  would  pass,  of  which  an  example  might  now  be  cited  in 
the  Chesapeake  and  Delaware  canal,  known  to  have  been  viewed 
in  an  unfavourable  light  by  the  State  of  Delaware.  4.  There  might 
be  cases  where  canals,  or  a  chain  of  canals,  would  pass  through  sun- 
dry States,  and  create  a  channel  and  outlet  for  their  foreign  com- 
merce, forming  at  the  same  time  a  ligament  for  the  Union,  and 
extending  the  profitable  intercourse  of  its  members,  and  yet  be  of 
hopeless  attainment  if  left  to  the  limited  faculties  and  joint  exer- 
tions of  the  States  possessing  the  authority. 


CCCLXXV.   James  Madison  to  C.  J.  Ingersoll.^ 

Montpellier,  February  2,  1 831. 

The  evil  which  produced  the  prohibitory  clause  in  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States  was  the  practice  of  the  States  in  making 
bills  of  credit,  and  in  some  instances  appraised  property,  '^a  legal 
tender."  If  the  notes  of  the  State  Banks,  therefore,  whether  char- 
tered or  unchartered,  be  made  a  legal  tender,  they  are  prohibited; 
if  not  made  a  legal  tender,  they  do  not  fall  within  the  prohibitory 
clause.  The  No.  of  the  "Federalist"  referred  to  (44)  was  written 
with  that  view  of  the  subject;  and  this,  with  probably  other  contem- 
porary expositions,  and  the  uninterrupted  practice  of  the  States 
in  creating  and  permitting  banks  without  making  their  notes  a  legal 
tender,  would  seem  to  be  a  bar  to  the  question,  if  it  were  not  inex- 
pedient now  to  agitate  it. 

A  virtual  and  incidental  enforcement  of  the  depreciated  notes 
of  the  State  Banks,  by  their  crowding  out  a  sound  medium,  though 
a  great  evil,  was  not  foreseen;  and  if  it  had  been  apprehended,  it  is 
questionable  whether  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  which 
had  many  obstacles  to  encounter,  would  have  ventured  to  guard 
against  it  by  an  additional  obstacle. 

*  Letters  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison^  IV,  i6a 


49^  RECORDS   OF  THE   FEDERAL   CONVENTION 

CCCLXXVI.   Jaiies  Madison  to  Theodore  Sedgewick,  Jr.^ 

Montpr.  Feb.   12,  183 1 

You  ask  whether  Mr  Livingston  (formerly  Governor  of  N. 
Jersey)  took  an  active  part  in  the  debates  (of  the  Fedl  Convention 
of  1787)  and  whether  he  was  considered  as  having  a  leaning  towards 
the  federal  Party  and  principles;  adding  that  you  will  be  obliged 
by  any  further  information  it  may  be  in  my  power  to  give  you. 

Mr  Livingston  did  not  take  his  seat  in  the  Convention  till  some 
progress  had  been  made  in  the  task  committed  to  it,  and  he  did  not 
take  an  active  part  in  its  debates;  but  he  was  placed  on  important 
Committees,  where  it  may  be  presumed  he  had  an  agency  and  a 
due  influence.  He  was  personally  unknown  to  many,  perhaps  most 
of  the  members,  but  there  was  a  predisposition  in  all  to  manifest 
the  respect  due  to  the  celebrity  of  his  name. 

I  am  at  a  loss  for  a  precise  answer  to  the  question  whether  he 
had  a  leaning  to  the  federal  party  and  principles.  Presuming  that 
by  the  party  alluded  to,  is  meant  those  in  the  Convention  who  fa- 
vored a  more  enlarged,  in  contradistinction  to  those  who  favored  a 
more  restricted  grant  of  powers  to  the  Fedl  Govt,  I  can  only  refer 
to  the  recorded  votes  which  are  now  before  the  public;  and  these 
being  by  States  not  by  heads,  the  individual  opinions  are  not  dis- 
closed by  them.  The  votes  of  N.  Jersey  corresponded  generally 
with  the  Plan  offered  by  Mr.  Patterson;  but  the  main  object  of  that 
being  to  secure  to  the  smaller  States  an  equality  with  the  larger  in 
the  structure  of  the  Govt,  in  opposition  to  the  outline  previously 
introduced,  which  had  reversed  the  object,  it  is  difl[icult  to  say  what 
was  the  degree  of  power  to  which  there  might  be  an  abstract  leaning. 
The  two  subjects,  the  structure  of  the  Govt  and  the  question  of 
power  entrusted  to  it  were  more  or  less  inseparable  in  the  minds  of 
all,  as  depending  a  good  deal,  the  one  on  the  other,  after  the  compro- 
mise wch  gave  the  small  States  an  equality  in  one  branch  of  the 
Legislature,  and  the  large  States  an  inequality  in  the  other  branch, 
the  abstract  leaning  of  opinions  would  better  appear.  With  those 
however  who  did  not  enter  with  debate,  and  whose  votes  could  not 
be  distinguished  from  those  of  their  State  colleagues,  their  opinions 
could  only  be  known  among  themselves,  or  to  their  particular  friends. 

I  know  not  Sir  that  I  can  give  you  any  of  the  further  information 
you  wish,  that  is  not  attainable  with  more  authenticity  and  par- 
ticularity from  other  sources.  My  acquaintance  with  Gov  Living- 
ston was  limited  to  an  exchange  of  the  common  civilities,  and  these 
to  the  period  of  the  Convention. 

^  Library  of  Congress,  Madison  Papers,  Draft. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXVII  497 

CCCLXXVII.   Jaiies  Madison  to  Jaiies  Robertson.^ 

March  27,  1831. 
The  journals  of  the  State  Legislatures,  with  the  journal  and 
debates  of  the  State  Conventions,  and  the  journal  and  other  printed 
accounts  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Federal  Convention  of  1787,  are, 
of  course,  the  primary  sources  of  information.  Some  sketches  of 
what  passed  in  that  Convention  have  found  their  way  to  the  public, 
particularly  those  of  Judge  Yates  and  of  Mr.  Luther  Martin.  But 
the  Judge,  though  a  highly  respectable  man,  was  a  zealous  parti- 
zan,  and  has  committed  gross  errors  in  his  desultory  notes.  He  left 
the  Convention  also  before  it  had  reached  the  stages  of  its  delibera- 
tions in  which  the  character  of  the  body  and  the  views  of  individuals 
were  sufficiently  developed.  Mr.  Martin,  who  was  also  present  but  a 
part  of  the  time,  betrays,  in  his  communication  to  the  Legislature  of 
Maryland,  feelings  which  had  a  discolouring  effect  on  his  statements. 
As  it  has  become  known  that  I  was  at  much  pains  to  preserve  an 
account  of  what  passed  in  the  Convention,  I  ought  perhaps  to 
observe,  that  I  have  thought  it  becoming,  in  several  views,  that  a 
publication  of  it  should  be  at  least  of  a  posthumous  date. 


CCCLXXVIIL   Jared  Sparks  to  James  Madison.^ 

New  York,  March  30th.  1831 
Having  recently  engaged  to  write  a  life  of  Gouvemieur  Morris, 
which  is  to  be  published  with  a  selection  from  his  writings,  I  take 
the  liberty  to  apply  to  you  for  a  few  hints  respecting  the  part  he 
acted  in  the  convention  of  1787.  From  several  quarters  I  have  under- 
stood, that  he  was  an  active  member,  and  had  a  good  deal  of  weight 
and  influence,  but  the  published  account  of  that  convention  is  so 
meagre,  such  a  very  skeleton  of  dry  bones  with  hardly  a  sinew, 
muscle,  or  ligature,  to  tell  that  it  was  a  living  thing,  that  it  is  impos- 
sible to  ascertain  from  it  the  relative  standing  or  prevailing  views  of 
any  member. 

Was  Morris  with  Hamilton  on  the  prominent  doctrines  of  the 
constitution,  or  did  he  incline  to  the  more  democratic  side.^  Was  he 
a  frequent  speaker,  and  an  efficient  member.^  Was  he  the  author 
of  any  of  the  important  features  of  the  constitution?  Did  he  set 
forth  any  particular  views,  which  he  labored  to  enforce  &  establish? 
I  have  been  told  by  several  persons,  who  professed  to  know  the 
fact,  that  the  constitution  in  its  present  form  and  language  is  from 
his  pen;  that  is,  after  all  debates  were  finished,  and  each  particular 

^  Letters  and  Other  Writings  of  James  Madison^  IV,  167, 
'  Documentary  History  of  the  ConstUutionj  V,  365-367. 


498     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

had  been  adopted  in  substance,  the  instrument  was  then  put  into 
his  hands  to  be  wrought  into  proper  phraseology  &  style.  His 
friends  here  are  in  the  habit  of  thinking,  that  much  is  due  to  him 
for  the  clear,  simple,  &  expressive  language  in  which  the  constitu- 
tion is  clothed. 

The  following  anecdote  is  also  current  among  those,  who  suppose 
themselves  well  informed  on  the  point.  During  the  sitting  of  the 
convention  G.  Morris  was  absent  several  days  to  attend  the  funeral 
of  his  mother.  On  his  return  he  called  at  the  house  of  Robert  Mor- 
ris, where  he  found  Washington,  who,  with  R.  Morris,  was  much 
dejected  at  what  they  deemed  the  deplorable  state  of  things  in  the 
convention.  Debates  had  run  high,  conflicting  opinions  were  obsti- 
nately adhered  to,  animosities  were  kindling,  some  of  the  members 
were  threatening  to  go  home,  and  at  this  alarming  crisis  a  dissolu- 
tion of  the  convention  was  hourly  to  be  apprehended.  Instructed 
in  these  particulars,  G.  Morris  went  into  the  convention  on  the  day 
following,  and  spoke  with  such  eloquence  and  power  on  the  neces- 
sity of  union,  of  partial  sacrifices,  &  temperate  discussion,  that  he 
effected  a  change  in  the  feelings  of  the  members,  which  was  the 
means  of  restoring  harmony,  and  ultimately  of  effecting  the  objects 
of  the  convention.  It  is  added,  that,  as  his  absence  had  prevented 
his  partaking  of  the  warmth,  which  had  grown  out  of  the  previous 
discussions,  his  counsel  &  apparent  disinterestedness  had  the  greater 
effect.     Do  you  recollect  any  incident  of  this  sort?  * 

You  will  doubtless  excuse  me  for  troubling  you  with  the  above 
questions,  since  there  is  no  other  source,  written  or  unwritten,  to 
which  I  can  apply  for  information,  and  since  the  world  is  become  so 
curious  to  know  all  that  pertains  to  the  origin  &  history  of  the  Con- 
stitution. Whatever  you  may  think  proper  to  communicate  on 
this  subject,  I  trust  will  be  used  with  discretion.  In  touching  on 
that  part  of  Mr  Morris's  life,  I  shall  take  an  opportunity  to  speak  of 
the  convention  according  to  such  light  as  I  shall  possess. 


CCCLXXIX.   James  Madison  to  Jared  Sparks.* 

Montpellier,  April  8,  1831. 
I  have  duly  received  your  letter  of  March  30th.*    In  answer 
to  your  inquiries,  "respecting  the  part  acted  by  Gouvemeur  Morris 
in  the  Federal  Convention  of  1787,  and  the  political  doctrines  main- 
tained by  him,"  it  may  be  justly  said,  that  he  was  an  able,  an  elo- 

*  See  CCCLXXIX  below. 

*  Jared  Sparks,  Life  of  Gouoemtur  Morris,  I,  284-286. 

*  See  CCCLXXVIII  above. 


APPENDIX  Ay   CCCLXXIX  499 

quent,  and  an  active  member,  and  shared  largely  in  the  discussions 
succeeding  the  ist  of  July,  previous  to  which,  with  the  exception 
of  a  few  of  the  early  days,  he  was  absent. 

Whether  he  accorded  precisely  with  the  '^  political  doctrines  of 
Hamilton,"  I  cannot  say.  He  certainly  did  not  **  incline  to  the  demo- 
cratic side,"  and  was  very  frank  in  avowing  his  opinions,  when  most 
at  variance  with  those  prevailing  in  the  Convention.  He  did  not 
propose  any  outline  of  a  constitution,  as  was  done  by  Hamilton;  but 
he  contended  for  certain  articles,  (a  Senate  for  life  particularly)  which 
he  held  essential  to  the  stability  and  energy  of  a  government, 
capable  of  protecting  the  rights  of  property  against  the  spirit  of 
democracy.  He  wished  to  make  the  weight  of  wealth  balance  that 
of  numbers,  which  he  pronounced  to  be  the  only  effectual  security 
to  each,  against  the  encroachments  of  the  other. 

The  finish  given  to  the  style  and  arrangement  of  the  Constitu- 
tion fairly  belongs  to  the  pen  of  Mr  Morris;  the  task  having,  prob- 
ably, been  handed  over  to  him  by  the  chairman  of  the  Committee, 
himself  a  highly  respectable  member,  and  with  the  ready  concur- 
rence of  the  others.  A  better  choice  could  not  have  been  made,  as 
the  performance  of  the  task  proved.  It  is  true,  that  the  state  of 
the  materials,  consisting  of  a  reported  draft  in  detail,  and  subse- 
quent resolutions  accurately  penned,  and  falling  easily  into  their 
proper  places,  was  a  good  preparation  for  the  symmetry  and 
phraseology  of  the  instrument,  but  there  was  sufficient  room  for 
the  talents  and  taste  stamped  by  the  author  on  the  face  of  it.  The 
alterations  made  by  the  Committee  are  not  recollected.  They 
were  not  such,  as  to  impair  the  merit  of  the  composition.  Those, 
verbal  and  others  made  in  the  Convention,  may  be  gathered  from 
the  Journal,  and  will  be  found  also  to  leave  that  merit  altogether 
unimpaired. 

The  anecdote  you  mention  may  not  be  without  a  foundation, 
but  not  in  the  extent  supposed.  It  is  certain,  that  the  return  of 
Mr  Morris  to  the  Convention  was  at  a  critical  stage  of  its  proceedings. 
The  knot,  felt  as  the  Gordian  one,  was  the  question  between  the 
larger  and  the  smaller  States,  on  the  rule  of  voting  in  the  senatorial 
branch  of  the  legislature;  the  latter  claiming,  the  former  opposing, 
the  rule  of  equality.  Great  zeal  and  pertinacity  had  been  shown 
on  both  sides,  and  an  equal  division  of  votes  on  the  question  had 
been  reiterated  and  prolonged,  till  it  had  become  not  only  distress- 
ing, but  seriously  alarming.  It  was  during  that  period  of  gloom, 
that  Dr.  Franklin  made  the  proposition  for  a  religious  service  in  the 
Convention,  an  account  of  which  was  so  erroneously  given,  with 
every  semblance  of  authenticity,  through  the  National  Intelligencer, 


500     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

several  years  ago.^  The  crisis  was  not  over,  when  Mr  Morris  is 
said  to  have  had  an  interview  and  conversation  with  General  Wash- 
ington and  Mr  Robert  Morris,  such  as  may  well  have  occurred. 
But  it  appears  that,  on  the  day  of  his  re-entering  the  Convention, 
a  proposition  had  been  made  from  another  quarter  to  refer  the  knotty 
question  to  a  Committee,  with  a  view  to  some  compromise,  the  indi- 
cations being  manifest;  that  sundry  members  from  the  larger  States 
were  relaxing  in  their  opposition,  and  that  some  ground  of  compro- 
mise was  contemplated,  such  as  finally  took  place,  and  as  may  be 
seen  in  the  printed  Journal.  Mr  Morris  was  in  the  deputation  from 
the  large  State  of  Pennsylvania,  and  combated  the  compromise 
throughout.  The  tradition  is,  however,  correct,  that,  on  the  day 
of  his  resuming  his  seat,  he  entered  with  anxious  feelings  into  the 
debate,  and,  in  one  of  his  speeches  painted  the  consequences  of  an 
abortive  result  to  the  Convention,  in  all  the  deep  colors  suited  to 
the  occasion.  But  it  is  not  believed,  that  any  material  influence 
on  the  turn,  which  things  took,  could  be  ascribed  to  his  efforts.  For, 
besides  the  mingling  with  them  some  of  his  most  disrelished  ideas, 
the  topics  of  his  eloquent  appeals  to  the  members  had  been  exhausted 
during  his  absence,  and  their  minds  were  too  much  made  up,  to  be 
susceptible  of  new  impressions. 

It  is  but  due  to  Mr  Morris  to  remark,  that,  to  the  brilliancy  of 
his  genius,  he  added,  what  is  too  rare,  a  candid  surrender  of  his  opin- 
ions, when  the  lights  of  discussion  satisfied  him,  that  they  had  been 
too  hastily  formed,  and  a  readiness  to  aid  in  making  the  best  of 
measures  in  which  he  had  been  overruled. 


CCCLXXX.   James  Madison  to  J.  K.  Paulding.* 

Montpellier,  Apl  — ,  1831. 

Of  Franklin  I  had  no  personal  knowledge  till  we  served  together 
in  the  Federal  Convention  of  1787,  and  the  part  he  took  there  has 
found  its  way  to  the  public,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  anecdotes 
which  belong  to  the  unveiled  part  of  the  proceedings  of  that  As- 
sembly. 

...  As  a  proof  of  the  fallability  to  which  the  memory  of  Mr. 
Hamilton  was  occasionally  subject,  a  case  may  be  referred  to  so 

decisive  as  to  dispense  with  every  other.     In  the  year  Mr. 

Hamilton,  in  a  letter  answering  an  inquiry  of  Col.  Pickering  concern- 
ing the  plan  of  Government  which  he  had  espoused  in  the  Conven- 
tion of  1787,  states,  that  at  the  close  of  the  Convention  he  put  into 

^  See  CCCLV  above,  and  CCCXail  below. 

•  LetUrs  and  olhtT  Writings  0}  James  Madison,  IV,  I74-I75i  ^77- 


APPENDIX  Ay   CCCLXXXI  50I 

my  hands  a  draught  of  a  Constitution;  and  in  that  draught  he  had 
proposed  a  "President  for  three  years."  Now,  the  fact  is,  that  in 
that  plan,  the  original  of  which  I  ascertained  several  years  ago  to  be 
among  his  papers,  the  tenure  of  office  for  the  President  is  not  ikree 
yearSj  but  during  good  behavior. 


CCCLXXXI.   James  Madison  to  J.  K.  Paulding.* 

Apl.  183 1. 

Much  curiosity  &  some  comment  have  been  excited  by  the  mar- 
vellous identities  in  a  "Plan  of  Govt,  proposed  by  Chs.  Pinckney  in 
the  Convn.  of  1787,  as  published  in  the  Journals  with  the  text  of  the 
Constitution  as  finally  agreed  to.  I  find  among  my  pamphlets  a 
copy  of  a  small  one  "entitled  "Observations  on  the  Plan  of  Govt 
submitted  to  the  Fedl  Convention  in  Phila  on  the  28th.  of  May  by 
Mr.  C.  P.  a  Delegate  from  S.  C.  delivered  at  different  times  in  the 
Convention" 

My  Copy  is  so  defaced  &  mutilated  that  it  is  impossible  to  make 
out  eno'  of  the  Plan  as  referred  to  in  the  Observation,  for  a  due  com- 
parison of  it,  with  that  printed  in  the  Journal.  The  pamphlet  was 
printed  in  N.  Y.  by  Francis  Childs.  The  year  is  effaced:  It  must 
have  been  not  very  long  after  the  close  of  the  Convention;  and  with 
the  sanction  at  least  of  Mr.  P.  himself.  It  has  occurred  that  a  copy 
may  be  attainable  at  the  Printing  office  if  still  kept  up,  or  examined 
in  some  of  the  Libraries,  or  Historical  Collections  in  the  City.  When 
you  can  snatch  a  moment  in  yr  walks  with  other  views;  for  a  call  at 
such  places,  you  will  promote  an  object  of  some  little  interest  as  well 
as  delicacy^  by  ascertaining  whether  the  article  in  question  can  be 
met  with.  I  have  among  my  manuscript  papers,  lights  on  the  sub- 
ject,   The  pamphlet  of  Mr.  P.  could  not  fail  to  add  to  them 


CCCLXXXII.   James  Madison  to  J.  K.  Paulding.* 

June  6.  183 1. 
Since  my  letter  answering  yours  of  Apl.  6,  in  which  I  requested 
you  to  make  an  enquiry  concerning  a  small  pamphlet  of  Charles 
Pinckney  printed  at  the  close  of  the  Fedl  Convention  of  1787,  it  has 
occurred  to  me  that  the  pamphlet  might  not  have  been  put  in  cir- 
culation, but  only  presented  to  his  friends  &c.  In  that  way  I  may 
have  become  possessed  of  the  copy  to  which  I  referred  as  in  damaged 
state.  On  this  supposition  the  only  chance  of  success  must  be  among 
the  Books  &c.  of  individuals  on  the  list  of  Mr.  P~'s  political  associates 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  ConstiHUioHf  V,  367-368. 

*  Documentary  Hittory  qf  the  Constitution^  V,  371. 


502     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

&  personal  friends.  Of  those  who  belonged  to  N.  Y.  I  recollect  no 
one  so  likely  to  have  reed,  a  Copy  as  Rufus  King.  If  that  was  the 
case,  it  may  remain  with  his  Representative-  and  I  would  suggest 
an  informal  resort  to  that  quarter,  with  a  hope  that  you  will  pardon 
this  further  tax  on  your  kindness. 


CCCLXXXIIL   James  Madison  to  Jared  Sparks.^ 

June  27,  1 83 1. 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  1 6th.  inst.,  inclosing  a  copy  of 
the  letter  of  Mr.  Charles  Pinckney  to  Mr.  Adams,  accompanying 
the  draft  of  a  Constitution  for  the  United  States,  and  describing  it 
as  essentially  the  draft  proposed  by  him  to  the  Federal  Convention 
of  1787.*    The  letter  to  Mr.  Adams  was  new  to  me. 

Abundant  evidence  I  find  exists  of  material  variance  between 
the  two  drafts,  and  I  am  sorry  that  the  letter  of  Mr.  Pinckney  is 
far  from  explaining  them.  It  does  not  appear,  as  you  inferred,  that 
the  draft  sent  to  Mr.  Adams  was  compiled  from  his  notes  and  papers; 
but  that  it  was  one  of  the  several  drafts  found  amongst  them,  and 
the  very  one,  he  believed,  that  he  had  presented  to  the  Convention, 
all  the  drafts,  however,  being  substantially  the  same. 

Some  of  the  variances  may  be  deduced  from  the  printed  journal 
of  the  Convention.  You  will  notice,  for  example,  that  on  the  6th 
or  7th  of  June,  very  shortly  after  his  draft  was  presented,  he  pro- 
posed to  take  from  the  people  the  election  of  the  Federal  House  of 
Representatives,  and  assign  it  to  the  legislatures  of  the  States^  a  vio- 
lent presumption  that  the  latter,  not  the  former,  was  the  mode 
contained  in  his  draft. 

It  is  true,  as  Mr.  Pinckney  observes  and  as  the  journal  shows, 
that  the  Executive  was  the  last  department  of  the  government  that 
received  its  full  and  final  discussion;  but  I  am  not  sure  that  he  is 
free  from  error  in  the  view  his  letter  gives  of  what  passed  on  the  occa- 
sion, or  that  the  error,  with  several  others,  may  not  be  traced  by  a 
review  of  the  journal. 

I  am  at  a  loss  for  the  ground  of  his  contrast  between  the  latter 
period  of  the  Convention  and  the  cool  and  patient  deliberation  for 
more  than  four  and  a  half  months  preceding.  The  whole  term  of 
the  Convention,  from  its  appointed  commencement,  was  short  of 
that  period;  and  its  actual  session,  from  the  date  of  a  quorum,  but 
four  months,  three  days.  And  the  occasion  on  which  the  most  seri- 
ous and  threatening  excitement  prevailed  (the  struggle  between  the 

1 H.  B.  Adams,  Life  and  Writings  of  Jared  Sparks,  II,  227-229. 
•  See  CCCXXVI  above. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXXIV  SO3 

larger  and  smaller  States  in  relation  to  the  representation  in  the 
Senate)  occurred,  as  the  journal  will  show,  during  the  period  noted 
as  the  cool  and  patient  one.  After  the  compromise  which  allowed 
an  equality  of  votes  in  the  Senate,  that  consideration,  with  the 
smaller  number  and  longer  tenure  of  its  members,  will  account  for 
the  abridgment  of  its  powers  by  associating  the  Executive  in  the 
exercise  of  them. 

Among  the  instances  in  which  the  memory  of  Mr.  Pinckney  failed 
him  is  the  remark  in  his  letter  that,  very  soon  after  the  Convention 
met,  he  had  avowed  a  change  of  opinion  in  giving  Congress  a  power 
to  revise  the  state  laws,  thinking  it  safer  to  refuse  the  power  alta^ 
gether.  It  appears  from  the  journal  that  as  late  as  the  23rd.  of 
August  the  proposition  was  renewed,  with  a  change  only,  requiring 
two  thirds  instead  of  a  majority  of  each  house.  The  journal  does  not 
name  the  mover,  but  satisfactory  information  exists  that  it  was  Mr. 
Pinckney. 

Mr.  Adams  was  probably  restrained  from  printing  the  letter 
of  Mr.  Pinckney  by  the  vague  charges  in  it  against  the  Convention, 
and  a  scruple  of  publishing  a  part  only. 

I  have  been  suffering  for  some  time  a  severe  attack  of  rheu- 
matism, and  I  offer  this  brief  compliance  with  your  request  of  my 
view  of  Mr.  Pinckney's  letter  under  an  unabated  continuance  of  it. 
This  alone  would  be  a  reason  for  desiring  that  nothing  in  the  com- 
munication should  be  referred  to  as  resting  upon  my  authority.  But 
there  are  others,  drawn  from  my  relation  to  the  subject  and  the 
relation  which  subsisted  between  Mr.  Pinckney  and  myself,  which 
must  always  require  that  I  should  not  be  a  party  to  an  exposure 
of  the  strange  incongruities  into  which  he  has  fallen,  without  a  fuller 
view  of  the  proofs,  and  the  obligation  not  to  withhold  them,  than 
the  present  occasion  would  permit. 


CCCLXXXIV.   James  Madison  to  J.  K.  Paulding.* 

June  27,  1 83 1. 
With  your  favor  of  the  20th  instant  I  received  the  volume  of 
pamphlets  containing  that  of  Mr.  Charles  Pinckney,  for  which  I 
am  indebted  to  your  obliging  researches.  The  volume  shall  be  duly 
returned,  and  in  the  meantime  duly  taken  care  of.  I  have  not 
sufficiently  examined  the  pamphlet  in  question,  but  have  no  doubt 
that  it  throws  light  on  the  object  to  which  it  has  relation. 

*  Letters  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison^  IV,  182-183. 


504     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCCLXXXV.   James  Madison  on  the  Pinckney  Plan.* 

The  length  of  the  Document  laid  before  the  Convention,  and 
other  circumstances  having  prevented  the  taking  of  a  copy  at  the 
time,  that  which  is  here  inserted  *  was  taken  from  the  paper  furnished 
to  the  Secretary  of  State,  and  contained  in  the  Journal  of  the  Con- 
vention published  in  18 19  which  it  being  taken  for  granted  was  a 
true  copy  was  not  then  examined.  The  coincidence  in  several 
instances  between  that  and  the  Constitution  as  adopted,  having 
attracted  the  notice  of  others  was  at  length  suggested  to  mine. 
On  comparing  the  paper  with  the  Constitution  in  its  final  form,  or 
in  some  of  its  Stages;  and  with  the  propositions,  and  speeches  of 
Mr.  Pinckney  in  the  Convention,  it  would  seem "  that  considerable 
errour  must  have  *  crept  into  the  paper;  occasioned  possibly  by  the 
loss  of  the  Document  laid  before  the  Convention,  (neither  that  nor 
the  Resolutions  offered  by  Mr  Patterson  being  among  the  preserved 
papers)  and  by  a  consequent  resort  for  a  copy  to  the  rough  draught, 
in  which  erasures  and  interlineations  following  what  passed  in  the 
Convention,  might  be  confounded  in  part  at  least  with  the  original 
text,  and  after  a  lapse  of  more  than  thirty  years,  confounded  also  in 
the  memory  of  the  Author. 

There  is  in  the  paper  a  similarity  in  some  cases,  and  an  identity 
in  others,  with  details,  expressions,  and  definitions,  the  results  of 
critical  discussions  and  modifications  in  the  Convention  that  can  not 
be  ascribed  to  accident  or  anticipation.* 

Examples  may  be  noticed  in  Article  VIII  of  the  paper;  which  is 
remarkable  also  for  the  circumstance,  that  whilst  it  specifies  the 
functions  of  the  President,  no  provision  is  contained  in  the  paper 
for  the  election  of  such  an  oflicer,  nor  indeed  for  the  appointment 
of  any  Executive  Magistracy:  notwithstanding  the  evident  purpose 
of  the  Author  to  provide  an  entirf  plan  of  a  Federal  Government. 

Again,  in  several  instances  where  the  paper  corresponds  with 
the  Constitution,  it  is  at  variance  with  the  ideas  of  Mr.  Pinckney, 
as  decidedly  expressed  in  his  propositions,  and  in  his  arguments, 
the  former  in  the  Journal  of  the  Convention,  the  latter  in  the  report 
of  its  debates:  Thus  in  Art:  VIII  of  the  paper,  provision  is  made 
for  removing  the  President  by  impeachment;  when  it  appears  that 

^  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  417^432.  This  document  was  evi- 
dently intended  as  a  note  to  the  proceedings  of  May  29  in  Madison's  Debates.  It 
was  probably  written  before  1835,  but  as  the  "Editorial  note"  which  is  attached  to  it 
is  the  more  important  of  the  two,  it  is  inserted  here. 

*  Interlined  "inserted  in  the  debates". 

■  Interlined  "it  was  apparent".  *  Interlined  "had". 

*  Interlined  "could  not  have  been  anticipated". 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXXV  50S 

in  the  Convention,  July  20.  he  was  opposed  to  any  impeachability 
of  the  Executive  Magistrate:  In  Art:  III^  it  is  required  that  all 
money-bills  shall  originate  in  the  first  Branch  of  the  Legislature; 
which  he  strenuously  opposed  Aug:  8  and  again  Aug:  11:  In  Art:  V 
members  of  each  House  are  made  ineligible  to,  as  well  as^  incapable 
of  holding,  any  office  under  the  Union  &c,  as  was  the  case  at  one 
Stage  of  the  Constitution;  a  disqualification  highly  disapproved  and 
opposed  by  him  Aug:  14. 

A  still  more  conclusive  evidence  of  errour  in  the  paper  is  seen  in 
Art:  III,  which  provides,  as  the  Constitution  does,  that  the  first 
Branch  of  the  Legislature  shall  be  chosen  by  the  people  of  the  sev- 
eral States;  whilst  it  appears,  that  on  the  6th.  of  June,  according  to 
previous  notice  too,  a  few  days  only,  after  the  Draft  was  laid  before 
the  Convention,  its  Author  opposed  that  mode  of  choice,  urging  & 
proposing  in  place  of  it,  an  election  by  the  Legislatures  of  the  several 
States. 

The  remarks  here  made,  tho'  not  material  in  tnemselves,  were 
due  to  the  authenticity  and  accuracy  aimed  at,  in  this  Record  of 
the  proceedings  of  a  Publick  Body,  so  much  an  object,  sometimes, 
of  curious  research,  as  at  all  times,  of  profound  interest 

As  an  Editorial  note  to  the  paper  in  the  hand  writing  of  Mr.  M. 

beginning  "The  length  &c.-"  * 

Striking  discrepancies  will  be  found  on  a  comparison  of  his  plan, 
as  furnished  to  Mr.  Adams,  and  the  view  given  of  that  which  was 
laid  before  the  Convention,  in  a  pamphlet  published  by  Francis 
Childs  at  New  York  shortly  after  the  close  of  the  Convention.  The 
title  of  the  pamphlet  is  "Observations  on  the  plan  of  Government 
submitted  to  the  Federal  Convention  on  the  28th.  of  May  1787  by 
Charles  Pinckney  &ca." 

But  what  conclusively  proves  that  the  choice  of  the  H.  of  Reps. 
by  the  people  could  not  have  been  the  choice  in  the  lost  paper  is  a 
letter  from  Mr.  Pinkney  to  J.  M.  of  March  28.  lySg^  now  on  his 
files,  in  which  he  emphatically  [shows]  adherence  to  a  choice  by  the 
State  Legres.  The  following  is  an  extract  —  "Are  you  not,  to  use  a 
full  expression,  abundantly  convinced  that  the  theoretical  nonsense 
of  an  election  of  the  members  of  Congress  by  the  people  in  the  first 
instance,  is  clearly  and  practically  wrong.  —  that  it  will  in  the  end 
be  the  means  of  bringing  our  Councils  into  contempt  and  that  the 
Legislatures  (of  the  States)  are  the  only  proper  judges  of  who  ought 
to  be  elected." 

» From  letters  to  J.  K.  Paulding,  sec  CCCLXXXI  and  CCCLXXXIV  above, 
it  18  probable  that  this  note  was  prepared  about  June,  183 1. 


5o6 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


Observations  on  Mr.  Pinkney's  plan  &c.  &c 
In    the    plan   of    Mr.   Pinkney     The  plan  according  to  his  com- 
as presented  to  Mr.  Adams  &     ments  in  the  pamphlet  printed 
published    in    the    Journal    of     by  Francis  Childs  in  New  York, 
the  Convention. 


The   House   of   Representatives 

to  be  chosen.^ 

No  council  of  Revision. 


The    President    to    be    elected 
for  years  — 

not  in  the  plan. 


*^and,  except  as  to  Ambassa- 
dors, other  Ministers,  and  Judges 
of  the  Supreme  Court,  he  shall 
nominate,  and  with  the  consent 
of  the  Senate^  apppoint  all  other 
officers  of  the  U.  S." 


No  provision  for  electing  the 
House  of  Representatives. 
A  Council  of  Revision  consist- 
ing of  the  Executive  and  prin- 
cipal officers  of  government. 
"This,  I  consider  as  an  improve- 
ment in  legislation,  and  have 
therefore  incorporated  it  as  a 
part  of  the  system." 
The  Executive  to  be  appointed 
septennially 

—  "have  a  right  to  convene  and 
prorogue  the  Legislature  upon 
special  occasions,  when  they  can- 
not agree  as  to  the  time  of  their 
adjournment; 

and  appoint  all  officers  except 
Judges  and  Foreign  Ministers.'' 


The  7th  Article  gives  the  Sen- 
ate the  exclusive  power  to  regu- 
late the  manner  of  deciding  all 
disputes  and  controversies  now 
subsisting,  or  which  may  arise, 
between  the  States,  respecting 
jurisdiction  or  territory: 

Article  6th.  "all  laws  regulating 
commerce  shall  require  the  assent 


"The  9th  article  respecting  the 
appointment  of  Federal  Courts 
for  deciding  territorial  contro- 
versies between  different  States, 
is  the  same  with  that  in  the 
Confederation;  but  this  may  with 
propriety  be  left  to  the  Supreme 
Judicial." 

"In  all  those  important  ques- 
tions where  the  present  Confed- 


^  Croesed  out:  "by  the  people;  with  details  similar  to  the  id.  section  i.  article  <A 
the  Constitution  of  the  U.  S." 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXXV 


507 


of  two  thirds  of  the  members 
present  in  each  Housed 


yy 


The  14th  article  gives  the  Legis- 
lature power  to  admit  new  States 
into  the  Union  on  the  same  terms 
with  the  original  States  by  |  of 
both  Houses.  —  nothing  further 


eration  has  made  the  assent  of 
nine  States  necessary,  I  have 
made  the  assent  of  )ds.  of  both 
Houses,  when  assembled  in  Con- 
gress, and  added  to  the  number 
the  regulation  of  trade  and  acts 
for  levying  an  Impost  and  rais- 
ing a  revenue". 

^'I  have  also  added  an  article 
authorising  the  United  States, 
upon  petition  from  the  majority 
of  the  Citizens  of  any  State,  or 
Convention  authorised  for  that 
purpose,  and  of  the  Legislature  of 
the  State  to  which  they  wish  to 
be  annexed,  or  of  the  States 
among  which  they  are  willing 
to  be  divided,  to  consent  to 
such  junction  or  division,  on 
the  terms  mentioned  in  the 
article."  * 


Plan. 
no  such  provision. 


Pamphlet. 


i< 


page  25.  a  provision  respecting 
the  attendance  of  the  members 
of  both  Houses;  the  penalties 
under  which  their  attendance  is 
required,  are  such  as  to  insure 
it,  as  we  are  to  suppose  no  man 


^The  two  paragraphs  following  were  crossed  out: 

A  number  of  important  articles  are  referred  to  in  the  pamphlet  &  not  found  in 
the  plan  ^- for  example  "  the  provision  respecting  the  attendance  of  the  members  of 
both  Houses;  the  penalties  under  which  their  attendance  is  required,  are  such  as  to 
insure  it,  as  we  are  to  suppose  no  man  would  willingly  expose  himself  to  the  ignominy 
of  ft4Mtu*lification  (pa  25)  providing  for  the  writ  of  Habeas  Corpus  &  trial  by  Jury 
in  Qvil  cases  (page  26)  —  ''to  secure  to  authors  the  exclusive  right  to  their  perform- 
aaces  and  (fiscoveries  "  page  26. 

So  also  In  the  plan  presented  the  powers  of  the  Senate  are  given  in  Article  7th. 
tho'  (The  mode  ol  appointment  on  the  rotative  principles  each  mode  of  appoint- 
ment class  for  4  Yean,)  the  mode  of  appointment  of  that  body  it  is  silent  The  lat- 
ter is  given  in  the  pamphlet  but  its  powers  are  not  enumerated.  The  restriction  on 
members  of  both  Houses  from  holding  any  office  under  the  union  is  not  adverted  to 
m  the  pamphlet  —  nor  the  power  of  the  Legislature  to  appoint  a  Treasurer,  to  esub- 
firii  post  and  military  roads  &c. 


So8 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


''All  criminal  offences  (except 
in  cases  of  impeachment)  shall 
be  tried  in  the  State  where 
they  shall  be  committed.  The 
trials  shall  be  open  &  public, 
&  be  by  Jury." 

silent. 


would  willingly  expose  himself 
to  the  ignominy  of  a  disquali- 
fication". 

Trial  by  Jury  is  provided  for 
''in  all  cases,  criminal  as  well 
as  Cml*\ 


*'to  secure  to  authors  the  exclu- 
sive right  to  their  performances 
and  discoveries''. 


Powers  of  the  Senate  enumer- 
ated Article  7th.  vizt.  "to  declare 
war,  make  treaties,  &  appoint 
ambassadors  and  Judges  of  the 
Supreme  Court.* 
"Every  bill,  which  shall  have 
passed  the  Legislature,  shall  be 
presented  to  the  President  for 
his  revision;  if  he  approves  it  he 
shall  sign  it;  but  if  he  does  not 
approve  it,  he  shall  return  it 
with  his  objections  &a.  &a. — 
The  Legislature  shall  have  power 
To  subdue  a  rebellion  in  any 
State,  on  application  of  its  Legis- 
lature; 

To  provide  such  dockyards 
&  arsenals,  and  erect  such  for- 
tifications as  may  be  necessary 
for  the  U.  S.  and  to  exercise 
exclusive  jurisdiction  therein; 

To  establish  post  &  mili- 
tary roads; 

To  declare  the  law  &  pun- 
ishment of  counterfeiting  coin. 


silent. 


The  Executive  "is  not  a  branch 
of  the  Legislature,  farther  than 
as  a  part  of  the  Council  of 
Revision'*. 


^  In  the  left  hand  column  under  "Plan**,  were  crossed  out  four  paragraphs  on: 
(i)  ineligibility  of  members  of  legislature  to  hold  office;  (2)  "Legislature  to  appoint  a 
Treasurer'*;  (3)  Legislature  "to  establish  post  &  military  roads*';  and  (4)  members 
of  both  houses  to  be  paid  by  their  states.  Opposite  each  paragraph  in  the  right  hand 
column,  "silent*'  was  crossed  out. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXXV  509 

To  declare  the  punishment 
of  treason,  which  shall  consist 
only  in  levying  war  against  the 
U.  S.,  or  any  of  them,  or  in  ad- 
hering to  their  enemies.  No 
person  shall  be  convicted  of 
treason  but  by  the  testimony  of 
two  witnesses.  These     and     other     important 

powers  and 
The  prohibition  of  any  tax  on 
exports are  unnoticed  in  his  remarks. 

There  is  no  numerical  correspondence  between  the  articles 
contained  in  the  plan  &  those  treated  of  in  the  pamphlet  &  the  latter 
alludes  to  several  more  than  are  included  in  the  former. 

In  Mr.  Pinkney's  letter  to  Mr.  Adams,  accompanying  his  plan, 
he  states  that  '^very  soon  after  the  Convention  met,  I  changed  and 
avowed  candidly  the  change  of  my  opinion  on  giving  the  power  to 
Congress  to  revise  the  State  laws  in  certain  cases,  and  in  giving  the 
exclusive  power  to  the  Senate  to  declare  war,  thinking  it  safer  to 
refuse  the  first  altogether,  and  to  vest  the  latter  in  Congress." 

In  his  pamphlet  he  concludes  the  5th.  page  of  his  argument  in 
favor  of  the  first  power  with  these  remarks  —  "  In  short,  from  their 
example,  (other  republics)  and  from  our  own  experience,  there  can 
be  no  truth  more  evident  than  this,  that,  unless  our  Government 
is  consolidated,  as  far  as  is  practicable,  by  retrenching  the  State 
authorities,  and  concentering  as  much  force  &  vigor  in  the  Union, 
as  are  adequate  to  its  exigencies,  we  shall  soon  be  a  divided,  and 
consequently  an  unhappy  people.  I  shall  ever  consider  the  revi- 
sion and  negative  of  the  State  laws,  as  one  great  and  leading  step 
to  this  reform,  and  have  therefore  conceived  it  proper  to  bring  it  into 


*      99 
view. 


On  the  23.  August  He  moved  a  proposition  to  vest  this  power  in 
the  Legislature,  provided  i  of  each  House  assented. 

He  does  not  designate  the  depository  of  the  power  to  declare  war 
&  consequently  avows  no  change  of  opinion  on  that  subject  in  the 
pamphlet,  altho'  it  was  printed  after  the  adjournment  of  the  Conven- 
tion and  is  stated  to  embrace  the  '^  observations  he  delivered  at 
different  times  in  the  course  of  their  discussions'' 

J.  M.  has  a  copy  of  the  pamphlet  much  mutilated  by  dampness; 
but  one  in  complete  preservation  is  bound  up  with  "Select  Tracts 
Vol.  2."  belonging  to  the  New  York  Historical  Society,  numbered 
2687. 


Sio 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


Title 

Observations  on  the  plan  of  Goverament  submitted  to  the  Fed- 
eral Convention,  in  Philadelphia,  on  the  28th.  of  May  1787,  By 
Mr.  Charles  Pinkney,  Delegate  from  the  State  of  South  Carolina  — 
delivered  at  different  times  in  the  course  of  their  discussions  — 

New  York:  —  Printed  by  Francis  Childs. 


In  the  plan  of  Mr.  Pinkney  as 
presented    to   Mr.   Adams    and 
published  in  Journal 
Article  I.     Style  — 
Article  2.     Division  of  Legisla- 
tive power  in  two  Houses. 

Article   3.  Members   of   H.    of 
D.  to  be  chosen  by  the  people. 

Article  4.   Senate  to  be  elected 
by  the  H.  of  Del.  &c.  .  . 


Article  5  —  relates  to  the  mode 
of  electing  the  H.  of  Del.  by 
the  people  &  rules  8ui.  Every 
bill  to  be  presented  to  the 
President  for  his  revision. 


Article  6.  powers  of  the  Legis- 
lature enumerated  &  all  con- 
stitutional acts  thereof,  and 
treaties    declared    to    be    the 


Plan  as  commented  on  in  Pam- 
phlet 

Not  adverted  to 


recommended 
page  8. 
silent. 


as 


recommended  page  9.  but  the 
4th.  article  relates  to  extend- 
ing rights  of  citizens  of  each 
State  throughout  U  S.  the  deliv- 
ery of  fugitives  from  justice,  on 
demand,  &  the  giving  faith  & 
credit  to  records  &  proceedings 
of  each  —  vide  Art.  12  &  13. 

This  article  declares  that  In- 
dividual states  shall  not  exer- 
cise certain  powers,  founded  on 
the  principles  of  the  6th.  of 
the  Confederation.  A  Council  of 
revision  is  stated  to  be  incor- 
porated in  his  plan  page  9.  vide 
Art  II.  for  prohibitions  —  em- 
powers Congress  to  raise  troops; 
&  to  levy  taxes  according  to 
number  of  whites  &  {  of  other 
descriptions. 

This  article  is  stated  to  be  an 
important  alteration  in  the  fedl. 
system,  giving  to  Congress  not 
only  a  revision  but  a  negative 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXXV 


5" 


supreme    law    &    the    judges 
bound  thereby. 


Article  7.  Senate  alone  to  de- 
clare war-  make  treaties  & 
appoint  ministers  &  Judges  of 
Sup.  Court  —  To  regulate  the 
manner  of  deciding  disputes  now 
subsisting,  or  which  may  arise, 
between  States  respecting  juris- 
diction or  territory  — 
Article  8.    The  Executive  power 

—  H.    E.    President  U.     S.    for 

years    &    re-eligible-    To 

give  information  to  the  Legisla- 
ture of  the  state  of  the  Union 
5c  recommend  measures  to  their 
consideration — To  take  care  that 
the  laws  be  executed  —  To  com- 
mission all  officers  of  the  U.  S. 
and  except  ministers  5c  Judges 
of  Sup.  Court,  nominate  5c  with 
consent  of  Senate  appoint  all 
other  officers  —  to  receive  min- 
isters 5c  may  correspond  with 
Ex.  of  different  States.  To  grant 
pardon  except  in  impeachments. 
To  be  commander  in  chief  —  to 
receive  a  fixed  compensation  — 
to  take  an  oath  —  removable  on 
impeachment  by  H.  of  D.  and 
conviction  in  Supreme  Court  of 
bribery  or  corruption.  The 
President  of  Senate  to  act  as 
Prest.  in  case  of  death  5ca  and 
the  Speaker  of  H.  of  D.  in  case 
of  death  of  Pres.  of  Senate  — 


on  the  State  laws.  The  States 
to  retain  only  local  legislation 
limited  to  concerns  affecting 
each  only,  vide  Art.  nth. 
Article  8.  like  same  in  Confed.  5c 
gives  power  to  exact  postage  for 
expense  of  office  5c  for  revenue. 
The  7th.  article  invests  the 
U.  S.  with  the  compleat  power 
of  regulating  trade  5c  levying 
imposts  5c  duties.  (The  regu- 
lation of  commerce  is  given  in 
the  powers  enumerated  article 
6th.  of  plan.) 

Page  9.  The  Executive  should 
be  appointed  septennially,  but 
his  eligibility  should  not  be 
limited  —  Not  a  branch  of  the 
Legislature  further  than  as  part 
of  the  Council  of  revision -His 
duties  to  attend  to  the  execu- 
tion of  the  acts  of  Congress,  by 
the  several  States;  to  correspond 
with  them  on  the  subject;  to 
prepare  and  digest,  in  concert 
with  the  great  departments,  bus- 
iness that  will  come  before  the 
Legislature.  To  acquire  a  per- 
fect knowledge  of  the  situation 
of  the  Union,  and  to  be  charged 
wth  the  business  of  the  Home 
Deptmt.  —  To  inspect  the  De- 
partments. To  consider  their 
Heads  as  a  Cabinet  Council  5t 
to  require  their  advice.  To  be 
Commander  in  Chief  —  to  con- 
vene the  legislature  on  special 
occasions  5c  to  appoint  all  officers 
but  Judges  5c  Foreign  ministers 
—  removable  by  impeachment  — 
salary  to  be  fixed  permanently 
by  the  Legislature. 


512 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


Article  9.  gives  the  legislature 
power  to  establish  Courts  of 
law,  equity  &  admiralty  & 
relates  to  the  appointment 
tenure  &  compensation  of 
judges  —  one  to  be  the  Su- 
preme Court  —  its  jurisdic- 
tion over  all  cases  under  the 
laws  of  U.  S.  or  affecting 
Ambassadors  tccy  to  the  trial 
of  impeachment  of  officers  of 
U.  S.;  cases  of  admiralty  & 
maritime  jurisdiction  —  cases 
where  original  5c  where  appel- 
late- 
Article  10.  after  first  census  the 
H.  of  I>-  shall  apportion  the 
Senate  by  electing  one  Sen- 
ator for  every  for  every 

members  each  State  shall  have 
in  H.  of  D-  each  State  to 
have  at  least  one  member. 


•5 


The  9th  article  respecting  the 
appointment  of  Federal  Courts, 
for  deciding  controversies  be- 
tween different  States,  is  the 
same  with  the  Confederation; 
but  this  may  with  propriety  be 
left  to  the  Supreme  Judicial 
{Article  7th.  of  the  plan  gives  the 
power  to  the  Senate  of  regulating 
the  manner  of  decision) 


The  loth  article  gives  Con- 
gress a  right  to  institute  such 
offices  as  are  necessary;  of  erect- 
ing a  Federal  Judicial  Court;  and 
of  appointing  Courts  of  Admir- 
alty. 

page  19.  The  exclusive  right 
of  coining  money  &ca  is  essen- 
tial to  assuring  the  federal  funds 
—  &a. 

page  20.  In  all  important  ques- 
tions where  the  Confederation 
made  the  assent  of  9  States  neces- 
sary I  have  made  }  of  both 
Houses  —  and  have  added  to 
them  the  regulation  of  trade  and 
acts  for  levying  Impost  &  rais- 
ing revenue  — 

page  20.  The  exclusive  right 
of  making  regulations  for  the 
government  of  the  Militia  ought 
to  be  vested  in  the  Federal 
Councils  &a 

page  22.  The  article  empower- 
ing the  U.  S.  to  admit  new 
States  indispensable  —  vide  Ar- 
ticle 14. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXXVI 


SI3 


To   establish   uniform   rules   of 
naturalization  in  Article  6. 

Article  16.  provides  the  same  by 
i 


Nothing  of  it 


It  is  provided  in  Art.  9.  that 
**A11  criminal  offenses  (except 
in  cases  of  impeachment)  shall 
be  tried  in  the  State  where 
committed.  The  trials  shall  be 
open  &  public,  and  be  by  Jury." 
nothing  as  to  the  rest  — 

Article  6.  provides  for  a  seat  of 
Govt.  &  a  National  University 
thereat  —  but  no  protection 
for  authors  is  provided  — 


Not  in  the  plan  — 


page  23.  The  Fed.  Govt,  should 
possess  the  exclusive  right  of 
declaring  on  what  terms  the 
privileges  of  citizenship  &  nat- 
uralization should  be  extended 
to  foreigners  — 

page  23.  Article  16.  provides 
that  alterations  may  be  made 
by  a  given  number  of  the  Legis- 
lature — 

page  25.  There  is  also  in  the 
articles,  a  provision  respecting 
the  attendance  of  members  of 
both  Houses  —  the  penalties 
under  which  their  attendance  is 
required  are  such  as  to  insure  it 
5cca 

page  26.  The  next  article  pro- 
vides for  the  privilege  of  the  writ 
of  Habeas  Corpus  —  the  trial 
by  Jury  in  all  cases,  criminal 
as  well  as  civil  —  the  freedom 
of  the  press,  and  the  preven- 
tion of  religious  tests  as  qual- 
ifications for  offices  of  trust  &a 
page  26.  There  is  also  an  au- 
thority to  the  National  legis- 
lature, permanently  to  fix  the 
seat  of  the  Genl.  Govt.,  to  secure 
to  authors  the  exclusive  right 
to  their  performances  &  dis- 
coveries &  to  establish  a  federal 
university. 

There  are  other  articles  of  sub- 
ordinate consideration. 


CCCLXXXVI.   Jared  Sparks  to  James  Madison.^ 

November  14,  1831. 
"Gouverneur  Morris*'  is  in  press   ...     It  will  be  in  three  vol- 
umes, the  first  a  memoir,  and  the  other  two  selections  from  his 
writings,  all  of  which  I  hope  to  send  you  in  January.     He  has  left 


*  H.  B.  Adama,  Lift  and  Writings  of  Jared  Sparks,  II,  230-231. 


514     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

hardly  a  scrap  of  paper  on  the  subject  of  the  Q>iivention,  and  I 
shall  consequently  have  very  little  to  say  of  that  matter. 

...  I  doubt  whether  any  clear  light  can  be  gained  till  Pinck- 
ney's  original  draft  shall  be  found,  which  is  probably  among  the 
papers  of  one  of  the  committee.  It  seems  to  me  that  your  secretary 
of  the  Convention  was  a  very  stupid  secretary,  not  to  take  care  of 
those  things  better,  and  to  make  a  better  journal  than  the  dry  bones 
which  now  go  by  that  name. 

CCCLXXXVII.   James  Madison  to  Jarbd  Sparks.^ 

Montpellier,  November  25,  1831. 

I  have  received  your  favor  of  the  14th  instant.  The  simple 
question  is,  whether  the  draught  sent  by  Mr.  Pinckney  to  Mr. 
Adams,  and  printed  in  the  Journal  of  the  Convention,  could  be  the 
same  with  that  presented  by  him  to  the  Convention  on  the  29th  day 
of  May,  1787;  and  I  regret  to  say  that  the  evidence  that  that  was  not 
the  case  is  irresistible.  Take,  as  a  sufficient  example,  the  important 
article  constituting  the  House  of  Representatives,  which,  in  the 
draught  sent  to  Mr.  Adams,  besides  being  too  minute  in  its  details 
to  be  a  possible  anticipation  of  the  result  of  the  discussion,  &c.,  of 
the  Convention  on  that  subject,  makes  the  House  of  Representatives 
the  choice  of  the  people.  Now,  the  known  opinion  of  Mr.  Pinckney 
was,  that  that  branch  of  Congress  ought  to  be  chosen  by  the  State 
Legislatures^  and  not  immediately  by  the  people.  Accordingly,  on 
the  6th  day  of  June,  not  many  days  after  presenting  his  draught, 
Mr.  Pinckney,  agreeably  to  previous  notice,  moved  that,  as  an  amend- 
ment to  the  Resolution  of  Mr.  Randolph,  the  term  "people"  should 
be  struck  out  and  the  word  *' Legislatures"  inserted;  so  as  to  read, 
'^  Resolved,  That  the  members  of  the  first  branch  of  the  National 
Legislature  ought  to  be  elected  by  the  Legislatures  of  the  several 
States."  But  what  decides  the  point  is  the  following  extract  from 
him  to  me,  dated  March  28,  1789: 

"Are  you  not,  to  use  a  full  expression,  abundantly  convinced 
that  the  theoretic  nonsense  of  an  election  of  the  members  of 
Congress  by  the  people,  in  the  first  instance,  is  clearly  and  practi- 
cally wrong;  that  it  will,  in  the  end,  be  the  means  of  bringing  our 
Councils  into  contempt,  and  that  the  Legislatures  are  the  only 
proper  judges  of  who  ought  to  be  elected?" 

Other  proofs  against  the  identity  of  the  two  draughts  may  be 
found  in  Article  VHI  of  the  Draught,  which,  whilst  it  specifies  the 
functions  of  the  President,  contains  no  provision  for  the  election 

^  Letters  and  other  Writings  of  Jamts  Madison^  IV,  201-203. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXXVII  515 

of  such  an  officer,  nor,  indeed,  for  the  appointment  of  any  Executive 
Magistracy,  notwithstanding  the  evident  purpose  of  the  author 
to  provide  an  entiu  plan  of  a  Federal  Government. 

Again,  in  several  instances  where  the  Draught  corresponds  with 
the  Constitution,  it  is  at  variance  with  the  ideas  of  Mr.  Pinckney, 
as  decidedly  expressed  in  his  votes  on  the  Journal  of  the  Convention. 
Thus,  in  Article  VIII  of  the  Draught,  provision  is  made  for  removing 
the  President  by  impeachment,  when  it  appears  that  in  the  Conven- 
tion, July  20,  he  was  opposed  to  any  impeachability  of  the  Executive 
Magistrate.  In  Article  III,  it  is  required  that  all  money-bills  shall 
originate  in  the  first  branch  of  the  Legislature;  and  yet  he  voted, 
on  the  8th  August,  for  striking  out  that  provision  in  the  Draught 
reported  by  the  Committee  on  the  6th.  In  Article  V,  members  of 
each  House  are  made  ineligible,  as  well  as  incapable,  of  holding  any 
office  under  the  Union,  &c.,  as  was  the  case  at  one  stage  of  the 
Constitution;  a  disqualification  disapproved  and  opposed  by  him 
August  14th. 

Further  discrepancies  might  be  found  in  the  observations  of  Mr. 
Pinckney,  printed  in  a  pamphlet  by  Francis  Childs,  in  New  York, 
shortly  after  the  close  of  the  Convention.  I  have  a  copy,  too  muti- 
lated for  use,  but  it  may  probably  be  preserved  in  some  of  your  his- 
torical repositories. 

It  is  probable  that  in  some  instances,  where  the  Committee 
which  reported  the  Draught  of  Augt  6th  might  be  supposed  to  have 
borrowed  from  Mr.  Pinckney*s  Draught,  they  followed  details 
previously  settled  by  the  Convention,  and  ascertainable,  perhaps, 
by  the  Journal.  Still  there  may  have  been  room  for  a  passing  respect 
for  Mr.  Pinckney's  plan  by  adopting,  in  some  cases,  his  arrangement; 
in  others,  his  language.  A  certain  analogy  of  outlines  may  be  well 
accounted  for.  All  who  regard  the  object  of  the  Convention  to  be 
a  real  and  regular  Government,  as  contradistinguished  from  the  old 
Federal  system,  looked  to  a  division  of  it  into  Legislative,  Executive, 
and  Judiciary  branches,  and  of  course  would  accommodate  their 
plans  to  their  organization.  This  was  the  view  of  the  subject  gen- 
erally taken  and  familiar  in  conversation,  when  Mr.  Pinckney  was 
preparing  his  plan.  I  lodged  in  the  same  house  with  him,  and  he 
was  fond  of  conversing  on  the  subject.  As  you  will  have  less  occa- 
sion than  you  expected  to  speak  of  the  Convention  of  1787,  may  it 
not  be  best  to  say  nothing  of  this  delicate  topic  relating  to  Mr. 
Pinckney,  on  which  you  cannot  use  all  the  lights  that  exist  and  that 
may  be  added? 


5l6     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

CCCLXXXVIII.   James  Madison  to  N.  P.  Trist.* 

Deer.  1 83 1. 

I  return  with  my  thanks  the  printed  speech  of  Col.  Hayne  on 
the  4th.  of  July  last.  It  is  blotted  with  many  strange  errors,  some 
of  a  kind  not  to  have  been  looked  for  from  a  mind  like  that  of 
the  author.     •  .  . 

But  I  find  that  by  a  sweeping  charge,  my  inconsistency  is  ex- 
tended to  ''my  opinions  on  almost  every  important  question  which 
has  divided  the  public  into  parties".  In  supporting  this  charge,  an 
appeal  is  made  to  "Yates'  secret  Debates  in  the  Federal  Conven- 
tion of  1787",  as  proving  that  I  originally  entertained  opinions 
adverse  to  the  Rights  of  the  States;  and  to  the  writings  of  Col. 
Taylor  of  Caroline,  as  proving  that  I  was  in  that  convention,  ''an 
advocate  for  a  consolidated  tuuional  Government, 

Of  the  Debates,  it  is  certain  that  they  abound  in  errors,  some  of 
them  very  material  in  relation  to  myself.  Of  the  passages  quoted, 
it  may  be  remarked  that  they  do  not  warrant  the  inference  drawn 
from  them.  They  import  "that  I  was  disposed  to  give  Congress  a 
power  to  repeal  State  laws",  and  "that  the  States  ought  to  be  placed 
under  the  controul  of  the  Genl.  Governmenty  at  least  as  much  as  they 
were  formerly  when  under  the  British  King  8c  Parliament". 

The  obvious  necessity  of  a  controul  on  the  laws  of  the  States,  so 
far  as  they  might  violate  the  Constn.  8c  laws  of  the  U.  S.  left  no  option 
but  as  to  the  mode.  The  modes  presenting  themselves,  were  i.  a 
Veto  on  the  passage  of  the  State  laws.  2.  a  Congressional  repeal  of 
them,  3  a  Judicial  annulment  of  them.  The  first  tho  extensively 
favord,  at  the  outset,  was  found  on  discussion,  liable  to  insuperable 
objections,  arising  from  the  extent  of  Country,  and  the  multiplicity 
of  State  laws.  The  second  was  not  free  from  such  as  gave  a  pref- 
erence to  the  third  as  now  provided  by  the  Constitution.  The 
opinion  that  the  States  ought  to  be  placed  not  less  under  the  Govt, 
of  the  U.  S.  than  they  were  under  that  of  G.  B,  can  provoke  no  cen- 
sure from  those  who  approve  the  Constitution  as  it  stands  with  powers 
exceeding  those  ever  allowed  by  the  Colonies  to  G.  B.,  particularly 
the  vital  power  of  taxation,  which  is  so  indefinitely  vested  in  Congs. 
and  to  the  claim  of  which  by  G.  B.  a  bloody  war,  and  final  separation 
was  preferred. 

The  author  of  the  "Secret  Debates",  tho  highly  respectable 
in  his  general  character,  was  the  representative  of  the  portion  of  the 
State  of  New  York,  which  was  strenuously  opposed  to  the  object 
of  the  Convention,  and  was  himself  a  zealous  partizan.    His  notes 

^  Docununtary  History  of  the  Constitution,  V,  374-378. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCLXXXVIII  $^7 

cany  on  their  face  proofs  that  they  were  taken  in  a  very  desultory 
manner,  by  which  parts  of  sentences  explaining  or  qualifying  other 
parts,  might  often  escape  the  ear.  He  left  the  Convention  also  on 
the  5th.  of  July  before  it  had  reached  the  midway  of  its  Session,  and 
before  the  opinions  of  the  members  were  fully  developed  into  their 
matured  &  practical  shapes.  Nor  did  he  conceal  the  feelings  of  dis- 
content 8c  disgust,  which  he  carried  away  with  him.  These  considera- 
tions may  account  for  errors;  some  of  which  are  self-condemned. 
Who  can  believe  that  so  crude  and  untenable  a  statement  could 
have  been  intentionally  made  on  the  floor  of  the  Convention  as  ''that 
the  several  States  were  political  Societies,  varying  from  the  lowest 
Corporations f  to  the  highest  sovereigns**  or  "that  the  States  had 
vested  all  the  essential  rights  of  Government  in  the  old  Congress." 

On  recurring  to  the  writings  of  Col.  Taylor,*  it  will  be  seen  that 
he  founds  his  imputation  agst.  myself  and  Govr.  Randolph,  of  fav- 
oring a  Consolidated  National  Govemt  on  the  Resolutions  intro- 
duced into  the  Convention  by  the  latter,  in  behalf  of  the  Virga. 
Delegates,  from  a  consultation  among  whom  they  were  the  result. 
The  Resolutions  imported  that  a  Govt,  consisting  of  a  National 
Legislre.  Executive  &  Judiciary,  ought  to  be  substituted  for  the 
Existing  Congs.  Assuming  for  the  term  National  a  meaning  co- 
extensive with  a  Single  Consolidated  Govt,  he  filled  a  number  of 
pages,  in  deriving  from  that  source,  a  support  of  his  imputation. 
The  whole  course  of  proceedings  on  those  Resolutions  ought  to  have 
satisfied  him  that  the  term  National  as  contradistinguished  from 
Federal^  was  not  meant  to  express  more  than  that  the  powers  to  be 
vested  in  the  new  Govt,  were  to  operate  as  in  a  Natl.  Govt,  directly 
on  the  people,  &  not  as  in  the  Old  Confedcy.  on  the  States  only. 
The  extent  of  the  powers  to  be  vested,  also  tho'  expressed  in  loose 
terms,  evidently  had  reference  to  limitations  &  definitions,  to  be 
made  in  the  progress  of  the  work,  distinguishing  it  from  a  plenary 
8c  Consolidated  Govt. 

It  ought  to  have  occurred  that  the  Govt,  of  the  U.  S  being  a 
novelty  8c  a  compound,  had  no  technical  terms  or  phrases  appropri- 
ate to  it;  and  that  old  terms  were  to  be  used  in  new  senses,  explained 
by  the  context  or  by  the  facts  of  the  case. 

Some  exulting  inferences  have  been  drawn  from  the  change 
noted  in  the  Journal  of  the  Convention,  of  the  word  National  into 
"  United  States.**  The  change  may  be  accounted  for  by  a  desire  to 
avoid  a  misconception  of  the  former,  the  latter  being  preferred  as  a 
familiar  caption.  That  the  change  could  have  no  effect  on  the  real 
character  of  the  Govt,  was  8c  is  obvious;  this  being  necessarily 
*  See  "New  Views,"  written  after  the  Journal  of  Convn.  was  printed. 


5l8     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

deduced  from  the  actual  structure  of  the  Govt,  and  the  quantum  of 
its  powers.    .  .  . 

Another  error  has  been  in  ascribing  to  the  inUntion  of  the  Con^ 
vention  which  formed  the  Constitution,  an  undue  ascendency  in 
expounding  it.  Apart  from  the  difficulty  of  verifying  that  inten- 
tion it  is  clear,  that  if  the  meaning  of  the  Constitution  is  to  be  sought 
out  of  itself,  it  is  not  in  the  proceedings  of  the  Body  that  proposed 
it,  but  in  those  of  the  State  Conventions  which  gave  it  all  the  validity 
&  authority  it  possesses.  

CCCLXXXIX.   James  Madison  to  James  T.  Austin.^ 

Montpellier  Feby  6  1832' 
I  have  reed  your  letter  of  19th  ulto  requesting  *'a  communica- 
tion of  any  facts  connected  with  the  services  of  the  late  V.  President 
Gerry  in  the  Convention  of  1787"  The  letter  was  retarded  by  its 
address  to  Charlottesville  instead  of  Orange  City.  It  would  give 
me  pleasure  to  make  any  useful  contribution  to  a  biography  of  Mr. 
Gerry  for  whom  I  had  a  very  high  esteem  and  a  very  warm  regard. 
But  I  know  not  that  I  could  furnish  any  particular  facts  of  that 
character  separable  from  his  general  course  in  the  Convention, 
especially  without  some  indicating  reference  to  them.  I  may  say 
in  general,  that  Mr.  G.  was  an  active  an  able,  and  interesting  member 
of  that  assembly,  and  that  the  part  he  bore  in  its  discussions  and 
proceedings  was  important  and  continued  to  the  close  of  them. 
The  grounds  on  which  he  dissented  from  some  of  the  results  are 
well  known.  

CCCXC.   James  Madison  to  Professor  Davis.' 

Montpellier,  1832. 
It  deserves  particular  attention,  that  the  Congress  which  first 
met  contained  sixteen  members,  eight  of  them  in  the  House  of  Rep- 
resentatives,* fresh  from  the  Convention  which  framed  the  Consti- 
tution, and  a  considerable  number  who  had  been  members  of  the 
State  Conventions  which  had  adopted  it,  taken  as  well  from  the  party 
which  opposed  as  from  those  who  had  espoused  its  adoption.  Yet 
it  appears  from  the  debates  in  the  House  of  Representatives,  (those 
in  the  Senate  not  having  been  taken,)  that  not  a  doubt  was  started 
of  the  power  of  Congress  to  impose  duties  on  imports  for  the  encour- 
agement of  domestic  manufactures.     .  .  . 

*  Nicholas  Gilman,  £Ibridg«  Gerry,  Roger  Sherman,  George  Gymer,  Thomas 
Fitzsimmons,  Daniel  Carroll,  James  Madison,  Jr.,  Abraham  Baldwin. 

*  Library  of  Congress,  Madison  Papers. 

*  LetUrs  and  oikir  Writings  of  James  Madison,  IV,  247,  251-254. 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXC  SI9 

The  incapacity  of  the  States  separately  to  regulate  their  foreign 
commerce  was  fully  illustrated  by  an  experience  which  was  well 
known  to  the  Federal  Convention  when  forming  the  Constitution. 
It  was  well  known  that  the  incapacity  gave  a  primary  and  powerful 
impulse  to  the  transfer  of  the  power  to  a  common  authority  capable 
of  exercising  it  with  effect.     .  .  . 

New  Yorky  Pennsylvania,  Rhode  Island,  and  Virginia,  previous 
to  the  establishment  of  the  present  Constitution,  had  opportunities 
of  taxing  the  consumption  of  their  neighbours,  and  the  exasperating 
effect  on  them  formed  a  conspicuous  chapter  in  the  history  of  the 
period.  The  grievance  would  now  be  extended  to  the  inland  States, 
which  necessarily  receive  their  foreign  supplies  through  the  maritime 
States,  and  would  be  heard  in  a  voice  to  which  a  deaf  ear  could  not 
be  turned. 

The  condition  of  the  inland  States  is  of  itself  a  sufficient  proof 
that  it  could  not  be  the  intention  of  those  who  framed  the  Constitu- 
tion to  substitute  for  a  power  in  Congress  to  impose  a  protective  tariff, 
a  power  merely  to  permit  the  States  individually  to  do  it.  Although 
the  present  inland  States  were  not  then  in  existence,  it  could  not 
escape  foresight  that  it  would  soon,  and  from  time  to  time,  be  the 
case.  Kentucky  was  then  known  to  be  making  ready  to  be  an  inde- 
pendent State,  and  to  become  a  member  of  the  Confederacy.  What 
is  now  Tennessee  was  marked  by  decided  circumstances  for  the  same 
distinction.  On  the  north  side  of  the  Ohio  new  States  were  in  embryo 
under  the  arrangements  and  auspices  of  the  Revolutionary  Congress, 
and  it  was  manifest,  that  within  the  Federal  domain  others  would 
be  added  to  the  Federal  family. 

As  the  anticipated  States  would  be  without  ports  for  foreign 
commerce,  it  would  be  a  mockery  to  provide  for  them  a  permit  to 
impose  duties  on  imports  or  exports  in  fa^vor  of  manufactures,  and 
the  mockery  would  be  the  greater  as  the  obstructions  and  difficulties 
in  the  way  of  their  bulky  exports  might  the  sooner  require  domestic 
substitutes  for  imports;  and  a  protection  for  the  substitutes,  by 
commercial  regulations,  which  could  not  avail  if  not  general  in  their 
operation  and  enforced  by  a  general  authority.     .  .  • 

But  those  who  regard  the  permission  grantable  in  section  ten, 
article  one,  to  the  States  to  impose  duties  on  foreign  commerce,  as 
an  intended  substitute  for  a  general  power  in  Congress,  do  not  reflect 
that  the  object  of  the  permission,  qualified  as  it  is,  might  be  less 
inconsistently  explained  by  supposing  it  a  concurrent  or  supple- 
mental power,  than  by  supposing  it  a  substituted  power. 

Finally,  it  cannot  be  alleged  that  the  encouragement  of  manu- 
factures permissible  to  the  States  by  duties  on  foreign  commerce, 


520     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

18  to  be  regarded  as  an  incident  to  duties  imposed  for  revenue.  Such 
a  view  of  the  section  is  barred  by  the  fact  that  revenue  cannot  be 
the  object  of  the  State,  the  duties  accruing,  not  to  the  State,  but  to 
the  United  States.  The  duties  also  would  even  diminish,  not  in- 
crease, the  gain  of  the  federal  treasury,  by  diminishing  the  consump- 
tion of  imports  within  the  States  imposing  the  duties,  and,  of  course, 
the  aggregate  revenue  of  the  United  States.  The  revenue,  what- 
ever it  might  be,  could  only  be  regarded  as  an  incident  to  the 
manfacturing  object,  not  this  to  the  revenue.     .  .  . 

Attempts  have  been  made  to  show,  from  the  journal  of  the  Con- 
vention of  1787,  that  it  was  intended  to  withhold  from  Congress 
a  power  to  protect  manufactures  by  commercial  regulations.  The 
intention  is  inferred  from  the  rejection  or  not  adopting  of  particu- 
lar propositions  which  embraced  a  power  to  encourage  them.  But, 
without  knowing  the  reasons  for  the  votes  in  those  cases,  no  such 
inference  can  be  sustained.  The  propositions  might  be  disapproved 
because  they  were  in  a  bad  form  or  not  in  order;  because  they  blended 
other  powers  with  the  particular  power  in  question;  or  because  the 
object  had  been,  or  would  be,  elsewhere  provided  for.  No  one 
acquainted  with  the  proceedings  of  deliberative  bodies  can  have 
failed  to  notice  the  frequent  uncertainty  of  inferences  from  a  record 
of  naked  votes.  It  has  been  with  some  surprise,  that  a  failure  or 
final  omission  of  a  proposition  *'to  establish  public  institutions, 
rewards,  and  immunities  for  the  promotion  of  agriculture,  commerce, 
and  manufactures,''  should  have  led  to  the  conclusion  that  the  Con- 
vention meant  to  exclude  from  the  federal  power  over  commerce 
regulations  encouraging  domestic  manufactures.  (See  Mr.  Craw- 
ford's letter  to  Mr.  Dickerson,  in  the  National  Intelligencer  of .) 

Surely  no  disregard  of  a  proposition  embracing  public  institutions^ 
rewards^  and  immunities  for  the  promotion  of  agriculture^  commerce, 
and  manufactures,  could  be  an  evidence  of  a  refusal  to  encourage  the 
particular  object  of  manufactures,  by  the  particular  mode  of  duties 
or  restrictions  on  rival  imports.  In  expounding  the  Constitution 
and  deducing  the  intention  of  its  framers,  it  should  never  be  foigotten, 
that  the  great  object  of  the  Convention  was  to  provide,  by  a  new 
Constitution,  a  remedy  for  the  defects  of  the  existing  one;  that 
among  these  defects  was  that  of  a  power  to  regulate  foreign  commerce; 
that  in  all  nations  this  regulating  power  embraced  the  protection 
of  domestic  manufactures  by  duties  and  restrictions  on  imports; 
that  the  States  had  tried  in  vain  to  make  use  of  the  power,  while 
it  remained  with  them;  and  that,  if  taken  from  them  and  trans- 
ferred to  the  Federal  Government,  with  an  exception  of  the  power 
to  encourage  domestic  manufactures,  the  American  people,  let  it 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXCI  52I 

be  repeated,  present  the  solitary  and  strange  spectacle  of  a  nation 
disarming  itself  of  a  power  exercised  by  every  nation  as  a  shield 
against  the  effect  of  the  power  as  used  by  other  nations.  Who  will 
say  that  such  considerations  as  these  are  not  among  the  best  keys 
that  can  be  applied  to  the  text  of  the  Constitution?  and  infinitely 
better  keys  than  unexplained  votes  cited  from  the  records  of  the 
Convention.  

CCCXCI.   James  Madison  to  W.  C.  Rives.* 

Montpr.  Ocr.  21  —  33. 

As  the  charges  of  M s.*  are  founded  in  the  main,  on  "Yates 

debates  in  the  federal  Convention  of  1787",  it  may  be  remarked 
without  impeaching  the  integrity  of  the  Reporter,  that  he  was  the 
representative  in  that  Body  of  the  party  in  N.  York  which  was  warmly 
opposed  to  the  Convention,  and  to  any  change  in  the  principles  of 
the  "articles  of  confederation";  that  he  was  doubtless  himself  at 
the  time,  under  all  the  political  bias  which  an  honest  mind  could  feel; 
that  he  left  the  Convention,  as  the  Journals  shew,  before  the  middle 
of  the  Session,  and  before  the  opinions  or  views  of  the  members 
might  have  been  developed  into  their  precise  &  practical  applica- 
tion; that  the  notes  he  took,  are  on  the  face  of  them,  remarkably 
crude  8c  desultory,  having  often  the  appearance  of  scraps  &  expres- 
sions as  the  ear  hastily  caught  them,  with  a  liability  to  omit  the 
sequel  of  an  observation  or  an  argument  which  might  qualify  or 
explain  it. 

With  respect  to  inferences  from  votes  in  the  Journal  of  the 
Convention,  it  may  be  remarked,  that  being  unaccompanied  by  the 
reasons  for  them,  they  may  often  have  a  meaning  quite  uncertain, 
and  sometimes  contrary  to  the  apparent  one.  A  proposition  may  be 
voted  for,  with  a  view  to  an  expected  qualification  of  it;  or  voted 
agst.  as  wrong  in  time  or  place,  or  as  blended  with  other  matter  of 
objectionable  import. 

Although  such  was  the  imperfection  of  Mr  Yates  Notes  of  what 
passed  in  the  Convention,  it  is  on  that  authority  alone  that  J.  M. 
is  charged  with  having  said  "that  the  States  never  possessed  the 
essential  rights  of  sovereignty;  that  these  were  always  vested  in 
Congress^* 

It  must  not  be  overlooked  that  this  language  is  applied  to  the 
Condition  of  the  States,  and  to  that  of  Congress,  under  "the  Articles 
of  Confederation".  Now  can  it  be  believed  that  Mr.  Yates  did  not 
misunderstand  J.  M  in  making  him  say,  that  the  States  had  then 

*  DocufMfUary  History  of  the  Constitutumj  V,  39^395-  *  Mutius. 


522      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

never  possessed  the  essential  rights  of  sovereignty**  and  that  *' these 
had  always  been  vested  in  the  Congress  then  existing.  The  charge 
is  incredible,  when  it  is  recollected  that  the  second  of  the  Articles  of 
Confederation  emphatically  declares  ^'that  each  State  retains  its 
sovereignty  freedom  8c  independence  and  every  power  &c,  which  is 
not  expressly  delegated  to  the  U.  S.  in  Congs.  assembled '' 

It  is  quite  possible  that  J.  M.  might  have  remarked  that  certain 
powers  attributes  of  sovereignty  had  been  vested  in  Congs ;  for  that 
was  true  as  to  the  powers  of  war,  peace,  treaties  &c"  But  that  he 
should  have  held  the  language  ascribed  to  him  in  the  notes  of  Mr. 
Yates,  is  so  far  from  being  credible,  that  it  suggests  a  distrust  of 
their  correctness  in  other  cases  where  a  strong  presumptive  evidence 
is  opposed  to  it. 

Again,  J  M.  is  made  to  say  *^that  the  States  were  only  great 
political  corporations  having  the  power  of  making  by-laws,  and  these 
are  effectual  only  if  they  were  not  contradictory  to  the  general 
confederation" 

Without  admitting  the  correctness  of  this  statement  in  the 
sense  it  seems  meant  to  convey,  it  may  be  observed  that  according 
to  the  theory  of  the  old  confederation,  the  laws  of  the  States  contra- 
dictory thereto  would  be  ineffectual.  That  they  were  not  so  in 
practice  is  certain,  and  this  practical  inefiicacy  is  well  known  to  have 
been  the  primary  inducement  to  the  exchange  of  the  old  for  the  new 
system  of  Govt,  for  the  U.  S. 

Another  charge  agst.  J.  M.  is  an  ^*  opinion  that  the  States  ought 
to  be  placed  under  the  controul  of  the  General  Govt,  at  least  as  much 
as  they  formerly  were  under  the  King  &  Parliament  of  G.  B." 

The  British  power  over  the  Colonies,  as  admitted  by  them, 
consisted  mainly  of  i.  the  Royal  prerogatives  of  war  &  peace,  treaties 
coinage  8cc.  with  a  veto  on  the  Colonial  laws  as  a  guard  agst.  laws 
interfering  with  the  General  law,  and  with  each  other:  2  the  parlia- 
mentary power  of  regulating  commerce,  as  necessary  to  be  lodged 
somewhere,  and  more  conveniently  there  than  elsewhere.  These 
powers  are  actually  vested  in  the  Federal  Govt,  with  the  difference, 
that  for  the  veto  power  is  substituted  the  general  provision  that  the 
Constitution  &  laws  of  the  U.  S.  shall  be  paramount  to  the  Consti- 
tutions 8c  laws  of  the  States;  and  the  further  difference  that  no  tax 
whatever  should  be  levied  by  the  British  Parliament,  even  as  a  regu- 
lation of  commerce;  whereas  an  indefinite  power  of  taxation  is  allowed 
to  Congress,  with  the  exception  of  a  tax  on  exports,  a  tax  the  least 
likely  to  be  resorted  to.  When  it  is  considered  that  the  power  of 
taxation  is  the  most  commanding  of  powers,  the  one  for  which  G. 
Britain  contended  for,  and  the  Colonies  resisted  by  a  war  of  seven 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXCI  523 

yearSy  and  when  it  is  considered  that  the  British  Govt,  was,  in  every 
branchy  irresponsible  to  the  American  people,  whilst  every  branch  of 
the  Federal  Government  is  responsible  to  the  States  and  the  people 
as  their  Constituents,  it  might  well  occur  on  a  general  view  of  the 
subject,  that  in  an  effectual  reform  of  the  Federal  system,  as  much 
power  might  be  safely  instrusted  to  the  new  Govt,  as  was  allowed 
to  G.  B.  in  the  old  one. 

An  early  idea  taken  up  by  J.  M.  with  a  view  to  the  security  of  a 
Govt,  for  the  Union,  and  the  harmony  of  the  State  Governments, 
without  allowing  to  the  former  an  unlimited  and  consolidated  power, 
appears  to  have  been  a  negative  on  the  State  laws,  to  be  vested  in 
the  Senatorial  branch  of  the  Govt;  but  under  what  modifications 
does  not  appear.  This  again  is  made  a  special  charge  against  him. 
That  he  became  sensible  of  the  obstacles  to  such  an  arrangement, 
presented  in  the  extent  of  the  Country,  the  number  of  the  States  and 
the  multiplicity  of  their  laws,  can  not  be  questioned.  But  is  it 
wonderful  that  among  the  early  thoughts  on  a  subject  so  compli- 
cated  and  full  of  difficulty,  one  should  have  been  turned  to  a  provi- 
sion in  the  compound  and  on  this  point  analogous  system  of  which 
this  Country  had  made  a  part;  substituting  for  the  distant,  the  inde- 
pendent &  irresponsible  authority  of  a  King  which  had  rendered  the 
provision  justly  odius,  an  elective  and  responsible  authority  within 
ourselves. 

It  must  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  radical  defect' of  the  old  confed- 
eration lay  in  the  power  of  the  States  to  comply  with  to  disregard 
or  to  counteract  the  authorisd  requisitions  &  regulations  of  Congress 
that  a  radical  cure  for  this  fatal  defect,  was  the  essential  object  for 
which  the  reform  was  instituted;  that  all  the  friends  of  the  reform 
looked  for  such  a  cure;  that  there  could  therefore  be  no  question  but 
as  to  the  mode  of  effecting  it.  The  deputies  of  Virga.  to  the  Conven- 
tion, consisting  of  G.  W.  Govr.  R.  &c  appear  to  have  proposed  a 
power  in  Congs.  to  repeal  the  unconstitutional  and  interfering  laws 
of  the  States.  The  proposed  negative  on  them,  as  the  Journals 
shew,  produced  an  equal  division  of  the  Votes.  In  every  proceeding 
of  the  Convention  where  the  question  of  paramountship  in  the  laws 
of  the  Union  could  be  involved,  the  necessity  of  it  appears  to  have 
been  taken  for  granted.  The  mode  of  controuling  the  legislation 
of  the  States  which  was  finally  preferred  has  been  already  noticed. 
Whether  it  be  the  best  mode,  experience  is  to  decide.  But  the  neces- 
sity of  some  adequate  mode  of  preventing  the  States  in  their  indi- 
vidual characters,  from  defeating  the  Constitutional  authority  of 
the  States  in  their  united  character,  and  from  collisions  among  them- 
selves, had  been  decided  by  a  past  experience.     (It  may  be  thought 


524     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

not  unworthy  of  notice  that  Col.  Taylor  regarded  the  controul  of 
the  Fedl.  Judiciary  over  the  State  laws  as  more  objectionable  than  a 
Legislative  negative  on  them.  See  New  Views  &c.  p.  i8.  contra 
see  Mr.  Jefferson-vol.  2.  p.  163) 

M  —  s  asks  "If  the  States  possessed  no  sovereignty,  how  could 
J.  M.  "demonstrate  that  the  States  retained  a  residuary  soverfigfUy^\ 
and  calls  for  a  solution  of  the  problem.  He  will  himself  solve  it, 
by  answering  the  question,  which  is  most  to  be  believed,  that  J  M. 
should  have  been  guilty  of  such  an  absurdity,  or  that  Mr.  Yates 
should  have  erred  in  ascribing  it  to  him. 

Mr.  Y.  himself  says  "that  J.  M.  expressed  as  much  attachment 
to  the  rights  of  the  States  as  to  the  trial  by  Jury." 

By  associating  J.  M.  with  Mr.  Hamilton  who  entertained  pecu- 
liar opinions,  M — s  would  fain  infer  that  J.  M.  concurred  with  those 
opinions.  The  inference  would  have  been  as  good,  if  he  had  made 
Mr.  H.  concur  in  all  the  opinions  of  J.  M.  That  they  agreed  to  a 
certain  extent,  as  the  body  of  the  Convention  manifestly  did,  in 
the  expediency  of  an  energetic  Govt,  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of 
the  Union,  is  true.  But  when  M  —  s  adds  "that  Mr.  H.  &  Mr.  M. 
advocated  a  system,  not  only  independent  of  the  States,  but  which 
would  have  reduced  them  to  the  meanest  municipalities",  he  failed 
to  consult  the  recorded  differences  of  opinion  between  the  two 
individuals  

CCCXCII.   James  Madison  to  John  Ttler.^ 

This  letter  it  appears  was  not  sent  to  Mr.  Tyler  —  tho'  it  seems 
a  fair  vindication  of  the  parties  assailed. 

In  your  speech  of  February  6th.  1833  you  say  "He  (Edmund 
Randolph)  proposed  (in  the  Federal  Convention  of  1787)  a  Supreme 
National  Government,  with  a  Supreme  Executive,  a  Supreme  Legis- 
lature, and  a  Supreme  Judiciary,  and  a  power  in  Congress  to  veto 
State  laws.  Mr.  Madison  I  believe,  Sir,  was  also  an  advocate  of 
this  plan  of  govt.  If  I  run  into  error  on  this  point,  I  can  easily  be 
put  right.  The  design  of  this  plan,  it  is  obvious,  was  to  render  the 
States  nothing  more  than  the  provinces  of  a  great  government  to 
rear  upon  the  ruins  of  the  old  Confederacy  a  consolidated  Govern- 
ment, one  and  indivisible." 

I  readily  do  you  the  justice  to  believe  that  it  was  far  from  your 
intention  to  do  injustice  to  the  Virginia  Deputies  to  the  Convention 
of  1787.  But  it  is  not  the  less  certain  that  it  has  been  done  to  all 
of  them,  and  particularly  to  Mr  Edmond  Randolph. 

>  Documentary  History  of  thi  Constitution^  V,  379-390. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXCII  $2$ 

The  Resolutions  proposed  by  him,  were  the  result  of  a  Consul- 
tation among  the  Deputies,  the  whole  number,  seven  being  present. 
The  part  which  Virga.  had  borne  in  bringg.  abt.  the  Convention, 
suggested  the  Idea  that  some  such  initiative  step  might  be  expected 
from  her  Deputation;  and  Mr.  Randolph  was  designated  for  the 
task.  It  was  perfectly  understood,  that  the  Propositions  committed 
no  one  to  their  precise  tenor  or  form;  and  that  the  members  of  the 
Deputation  wd.  be  as  free  in  discussing  and  shaping  them  as  the 
other  members  of  the  Convention.  Mr.  R.  was  made  the  organ  on 
the  occasion,  being  then  the  Governor  of  the  State,  of  distinguished 
talents,  and  in  the  habit  of  public  speaking.  Genl.  Washington, 
tho'  at  the  head  of  the  list  was,  for  obvious  reasons  disinclined  to 
take  the  lead.  It  was  also  foreseen  that  he  would  be  immediately 
called  to  the  presiding  station 

Now  what  was  the  plan  sketched  in  the  Propositions? 

They  proposed  that  "the  Articles  of  Confederation  shd.  be  so 
corrected  and  enlarged  as  to  accomplish  the  objects  of  their  Institu- 
tion —  namely  common  defence,  security  of  liberty,  and  general 
welfare,":  (the  words  of  the  Confederation) 

That  a  national  Legislature,  a  national  Executive  and  a  national 
Judiciary  should  be  established:  (this  organization  of  Departments 
the  same  as  in  the  adopted  Constitution) 

That  the  right  of  suffrage  in  the  Legislature  shd  be  (not  equal 
among  ye  States  as  in  the  Confederation  but)  proportioned  to  quotas 
of  contribution  or  numbers  of  free  inhabitants,  as  might  seem  best 
in  different  cases";  (the  same  principle  corresponding  with  the  mixed 
rule  adopted) 

"That  it  should  consist  of  two  branches:  the  first  elected  by  the 
people  of  the  several  States,  the  second  by  the  first  of  a  number 
nominated  by  the  State  Legislatures",  (a  mode  of  forming  a  Sen- 
ate regarded  as  more  just  to  the  large  States,  than  the  equality  which 
was  yielded  to  the  small  States  by  the  compromise  with  them  but 
not  material  in  any  other  view.  In  reference  to  the  practicable 
equilibrium  between  the  General  &  the  State  authorities,  the  com- 
parative influence  of  the  two  modes  will  depend  on  the  question 
whether  the  small  States,  will  incline  most,  to  the  former  or  to  the 
latter  scale.) 

That  a  national  Executive,  with  a  Council  of  Revision  consisting 
of  a  number  of  the  Judiciary,  (wch.  Mr  Jefferson  wd.  have  approved) 
and  a  qualified  negative  on  the  laws,  be  instituted,  to  be  chosen  by 
the  Legislature  for  the  term  of  years,  to  be  ineligible  a  sec- 

ond time,  and  with  a  compensation  to  be  neither  increased  nor 
diminished  so  as  to  affect  the  existing  magistracy,     (there  is  nothing 


526     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

in  this  Ex.  modification,  materially  different  in  its  Constitutional 
bearing  from  that  finally  adopted  in  the  Constitution  of  the  U.  S.) 

That  a  national  Judiciary  be  established,  consisting  of  a  Supreme 
appellate  and  inferior,  Tribunals,  to  hold  their  offices  during  good 
behavior,  and  with  compensations,  not  to  be  increased  or  diminished, 
so  as  to  affect  persons  in  office  (there  can  be  nothing  here  subjecting 
it  to  unfavorable  comparison  with  the  article  in  the  Constitution 
existing) 

**That  provision  ought  to  be  made  for  the  admission  of  new 
States  lawfully  arising  within  the  limits  of  the  U.  S.  wth.  the  con- 
sent of  a  number  of  votes  in  the  natl.  Legislature  less  than  the  whole  ^'. 
(This  is  not  at  variance  wth.  the  existing  provision) 

''That  a  Republican  Govt,  ought  to  be  guaranteed  by  the  U.  S. 
to  each  State,     (this  is  among  the  existing  provisions) 

"That  provision  ought  to  be  made  for  amending  the  articles  of 
Union,  without  requiring  the  assent  of  the  National  Legislature  (this 
is  done  in  the  Constn.) 

''That  the  Legisl:  Ex.  8c  Judiciary  powers  of  the  several  States 
ought  to  be  bound  by  oath  to  support  the  Articles  of  Union  (this 
was  provided  with  the  emphatic  addition  of  —  "any  thing  in  the 
Constn.  or  laws  of  the  States  notwithstanding) 

"That  the  Act  of  the  Convention,  after  the  approbation  of  the 
(then)  Congs.  be  submitted  to  an  assembly  or  assemblies  of  Repre- 
sentatives recommended  by  the  several  Legislatures,  to  be  expressly 
chosen  by  the  people  to  decide  thereon  (This  was  the  course  pur- 
sued) 

So  much  for  the  structure  of  the  Govt,  as  proposed  by  Mr. 
Randolph,  &  for  a  few  miscellaneous  provisions.  When  compared 
with  the  Constn:  as  it  stands  what  is  there  of  a  consolidating  aspect 
that  can  be  offensive  to  those  who  applaud  approve  or  are  satisfied 
with  the  Constn: 

Let  it  next  be  seen  what  were  the  powers  proposed  to  be  lodged 
in  the  Govt,  as  distributed  among  its  several  Departments. 

The  Legislature,  each  branch  possessing  a  right  to  originate 
acts,  was  to  enjoy  i.  the  Legislative  rights  vested  in  the  Congs.  of  the 
Confederation,  (This  must  be  free  from  objection,  especially  as  the 
powers  of  that  description  were  left  to  the  selection  of  the  Convention. 

2.  cases  to  which  the  separate  States,  would  be  incompetent  or 
in  which  the  harmony  of  the  U.  S.  might  be  intercepted  by  individual 
Legislation.  (It  can  not  be  supposed  that  these  descriptive  phrases 
were  to  be  left  in  their  indefinite  extent  to  Legislative  discretion. 
A  selection  &  definition  of  the  cases  embraced  by  them  was  to  be 
the  task  of  the  Convention.     If  there  could  be  any  doubt  that  this 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCXCII  527 

was  intended,  &  so  understood  by  the  Convention,  it  would  be 
removed  by  the  course  of  proceeding  on  them  as  recorded,  in  its 
Journal,  many  of  the  propositions  made  in  the  Convention,  fall 
within  this  remark:  being,  as  is  not  unusual  general  in  their  phrase, 
but  if  adopted  to  be  reduced  to  their  proper  shape  &  specification. 

3.  to  negative  all  laws  passed  by  the  several  States  contravening, 
in  the  opinion  of  the  national  Legislature,  the  Articles  of  Union  or 
any  Treaty  subsisting  under  their  Authority.  (The  necessity  of 
some  constitutional  and  effective  provision  guarding  the  Constn.  8c 
laws  of  the  Union,  agst.  violations  of  them  by  the  laws  of  the  States, 
was  felt  and  taken  for  granted  by  all  from  the  commencement,  to 
the  conclusion  of  the  work  performed  by  the  Convention.  Every 
vote  in  the  Journal  involving  the  opinion,  proves  a  unanimity 
among  the  Deputations,  on  this  point.  A  voluntary  &  unvaried 
concurrence  of  so  many,  (then  13  with  a  prospect  of  continued  in- 
crease), distinct  &  independent  authorities,  in  expounding  Reacting 
on  a  rule  of  Conduct,  which  must  be  the  same  for  all,  or  in  force  in 
none,  was  a  calculation,  forbidden  by  a  knowledge  of  human  nature, 
and  especially  so  by  the  experience  of  the  Confederacy,  the  defects 
of  which  were  to  be  supplied  by  the  Convention.) 

With  this  view  of  the  subject,  the  only  question  was  the  mode  of 
controul  on  the  Individual  Legislatures.  This  might  be  either 
preventive  or  corrective;  The  former  by  a  negative  on  the  State 
laws;  the  latter  by  a  Legislative  repeal  by  a  Judicial  supersedeas, 
or  by  an  administrative  arrest  of  them.  The  preventive  mode  as 
the  best  if  equally  practicable  with  the  corrective,  was  brought  by 
Mr.  R.  to  the  consideration  of  the  Convention.  It  was,  tho'  not  a 
little  favored  as  appears  by  the  votes  in  the  Journal  finally  abandoned, 
as  not  reducible  to  practice.  Had  the  negative  been  assigned  to  the 
Senatorial  branch  of  the  Govt,  representedg  the  State  Legislatures, 
thus  giving  to  the  whole  a  controul  of  these  over  each,  the  expedient 
would  probably  have  been  still  more  favorably  reed;  tho'  even  in 
that  form,  subject  to  insuperable  objections,  in  the  distance  of  many 
of  the  State  Legislatures,  and  the  multiplicity  of  the  laws  of  each. 

Of  the  corrective  modes,  a  repeal  by  the  National  Legislature 
was  pregnant  with  inconveniences  rendering  it  inadmissible. 

The  only  remaining  safeguard  to  the  Constitution  and  laws  of 
the  Union,  agst.  the  encroachment  of  its  members  and  anarchy 
among  themselves,  is  that  which  was  adopted,  in  the  Declaration  that 
the  Constitution  laws  &  Treaties  of  the  U.  S  should  be  the  supreme 
law  of  the  Land,  and  as  such  be  obligatory  on  the  Authorities  of 
the  States  as  well  as  those  of  the  U.  S. 

The  last  of  the  proposed  Legislative  powers  was  "to  call  forth 


528     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  force  of  the  Union  agst.  any  member  failing  to  fulfil  its  duty 
under  the  Articles  of  Union" 

The  evident  object  of  this  provision  was  not  to  enlarge  the  powers 
of  the  proposed  Govt,  but  to  secure  their  efficiency.  It  was  doubtless 
suggested  by  the  inefficiency  of  the  Confederate  system,  from  the 
want  of  such  a  sanction;  none  such  being  expressed  in  its  Articles; 
and  if  as  Mr.  Jefferson  *  argued,  necessarily  implied,  having  never 
been  actually  employed.  The  proposition  as  offered  by  Mr.  R.  was 
in  general  terms.  It  might  have  been  taken  into  Consideration,  as 
a  substitute  for,  or  as  a  supplement  to  the  ordinary  mode  of  enforcing 
the  laws  by  Civil  process;  or  it  might  have  been  referred  to  cases 
of  territorial  or  other  controversies  between  States  and  a  refusal  of 
the  defeated  party  to  abide  by  the  decision;  leaving  the  alternative 
of  a  Coercive  interposition  by  the  Govt,  of  the  Union,  or  a  war 
between  its  members,  and  within  its  bowels.  Neither  of  these 
readings  nor  any  other,  which  the  language  wd.  bear,  could  counte- 
nance a  just  chaige  on  the  Deputation  or  on  Mr.  Randolph,  of  con- 
templating a  consolidated  Govt,  with  unlimited  powers. 

The  Executive  powers  do  not  cover  more  ground,  than  those 
inserted  by  the  Convention  to  whose  discretion,  the  task  of  enumerat- 
ing them  was  submitted.  The  proposed  association  with  the  Exe- 
cutive of  a  Council  of  Revision,  could  not  give  a  consolidating 
feature  to  the  plan. 

The  Judicial  power  in  the  plan,  is  more  limited  than  the  Juris- 
diction described  in  the  Constn;  with  the  exception  of  cases  of  ^*  im- 
peachment of  any  national  officer'',  and  questions  which  involve 
the  national  peace  &  harmony." 

The  trial  of  Impeachts.  is  known  to  be  one  of  the  most  difficult 
of  Constl.  arrangemts.  The  reference  of  it  to  the  Judical  Dept. 
may  be  presumed  to  have  been  suggested  by  the  example  in  the 
Constitution  of  Virga.  The  option  seemed  to  lie  between  that  8c  the 
other  Depts.  of  the  Govt.,  no  example  of  an  organization  excluding  all 
the  Departs,  presenting  itself.  Whether  the  Judl  mode  proposed, 
was  preferable  to  that  inserted  in  the  Const:  or  not,  the  difference 
cannot  affect  the  question  of  a  Consolidating  aspect  or  tendency. 

By  questions  involving  "the  Natl,  peace  and  harmony",  no 
one  can  suppose  more  was  meant  than  might  be  specified^  by  the 
Convention  as  proper  to  be  referred  to  the  Judiciary  either,  by  the 
Constn:  or  the  Constl  authority  of  the  Legislature.  They  could 
be  no  rule,  in  that  latitude,  to  a  Court,  nor  even  to  a  Legislature 
with  limited  powers. 

That  the  Convention  understood  the  entire  Resolutions  of  Mr.  R 
*  See  hit  publiihed  letter  of  Aug.  4.  1787  to  Edd.  Carringtoo. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXCII  529 

to  be  a  mere  sketch  in  which  omitted  details  were  to  be  supplied  and 
the  general  terms  and  phrases  to  be  reduced  to  their  proper  details, 
is  demonstrated  by  the  use  made  of  them  in  the  Convention.  They 
were  taken  up  &  referred  to  a  Come,  of  the  whole  in  that  sense;  dis- 
cussed one  by  one;  referred  occasionally  to  special  Coms.,  to  Comes, 
of  detail  on  special  points,  at  length  to  a  Come,  to  digest  &  report  the 
draft  of  a  Constn:  and  finally  to  a  Come,  of  arrangement  and  diction. 

On  this  review  of  the  whole  subject,  candour  discovers  no  ground 
for  the  charge,  that  the  Resolns.  contemplated  a  Govt,  materially 
different  from  or  more  national  than  that  in  which  they  termi- 
nated, and  certainly  no  ground  for  the  charge  of  consolidating  views 
in  those  from  whom  the  Resolns.  proceeded. 

What  then  is  the  ground  on  which  the  charge  rests?  It  cd.  not 
be  on  a  plea  that  the  plan  of  Mr.  R.  gave  unlimited  powers  to  the 
proposed  Govemt:  for  the  plan  expressly  aimed  at  a  specification,  & 
of  course  a  limitation  of  the  powers. 

It  cd.  not  be  on  the  supremacy  of  the  general  authority  over  the 
separate  authorities,  for  that  supremacy,  as  already  noticed,  is  more 
fully  &  emphatically  established  by  the  text  of  the  Constitution? 

It  cd.  not  be  on  the  proposed  ratification,  by  the  people  instead 
of  the  States  for  that  is  the  ratification  on  wch.  the  Constn.  is  founded. 

The  Charge  must  rest  on  the  term  "National"  prefixed  to  the 
organized  Depts.  in  the  propositions  of  Mr.  R.  yet  how  easy  is  it  to 
acct.  for  the  use  of  the  term  witht  taking  it  in  a  consolidating  sense? 

In  the  1st.  place.  It  contradistinguished  the  proposed  Govt 
from  the  Confederacy  which  it  was  to  supersede. 

2.  As  the  System  was  to  be  a  new  &  compound  one  a  nonde- 
script without  a  technical  appellation  for  it,  the  term  "National" 
was  very  naturally  suggested  by  its  national  features,  i.  in  being 
estabd.  not  by  the  authority  of  State  Legs  but  by  the  original  authy. 
of  the  people  2.  in  its  organization  into  Legisl.  Ex.  &  Judy.  Departs.: 
and  3.  in  its  action  on  the  people  of  the  States  immediately,  and  not 
on  the  Govts,  of  the  States,  as  in  a  Confederacy. 

But  what  alone  would  justify  &  acct.  for  the  application  of  the 
term  National  to  the  proposed  Govt,  is  that  it  wd.  possess,  exclusively 
all  the  attributes  of  a  natl.  Govt,  in  its  relations  with  other  nations 
including  the  most  essential  one,  of  regulating  foreign  Commerce; 
with  an  effective  means  of  fulfilling  the  obligs.  &  responsiby  of  the 
U.  S.  to  other  nations.*  Hence  it  was  that  the  term  natl.  was  at  once 

'  Crossed  out:  "Even  under  the  Confedy  the  States  in  their  U.  Character  were 
considered  and  called  a  nation;  altho  their  Treaties  &  transactions  with  foreign 
nations  depended  for  their  execution  on  the  will  of  the  several  States,  &  altho  the 
regulation  of  foreign  commerce  even  remained  with  the  States." 


530     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

to  readily  applied  to  the  new  Govt,  and  that  it  has  become  so  uni- 
versal &  familiar.  It  may  safely  be  affirmed  that  the  same  wd. 
have  been  the  case,  whatever  name  might  have  been  given  to  it 
by  the  props,  of  Mr.  R.  or  by  the  Convention.  A  Govt:  which  alone 
is  known  &  acknowledged  by  all  foreign  nations,  and  alone  charged 
with  the  international  relations,  could  not  fail  to  be  deemed  &  called 
at  home,  a  Natl.  Govt. 

After  all,  in  discussing  &  expounding  the  character  &  import  of 
a  Constn.,  let  candor  decide  whether  it  be  not  more  reasonable  & 
just,  to  interpret  the  name  or  title  by  facts  on  the  face  of  it,  than  to 
make  the  title  torture  the  facts  by  a  bed  of  Procrustes  into  a  fitness 
to  the  title. 

I  must  leave  it  to  yourself  to  judge  whether  this  exposition  of 
the  Resolns.  in  question  be  not  sufficiently  reasonable  to  protect 
them  from  the  imputation  of  a  consolidating  tendency,  and  still 
more  the  Virga  Deputies  from  having  that  for  their  object. 

With  respect  to  Mr.  R.  particularly,  is  not  some  respect  due  to 
his  public  letter  to  the  Speaker  of  ye.  H.  of  D.  in  which  he  gives 
for  his  refusal  to  sign  the  Constn:  reasons  irreconcileable  with  the 
supposition  that  he  cd.  have  proposed  the  Resolns.  in  a  meaning 
charged  on  them?  Of  Col.  Mason  who  also  refused,  it  may  be 
inferred  from  his  avowed  reasons  that  he  cd.  not  have  acquiesced 
in  the  propositions,  if  understood  or  intended  to  effect  a  Consol. 
Gov. 

So  much  use  has  been  made  of  Judge  Yates'  minutes  of  debates 
in  the  Convention,  that  I  must  be  allowed  to  remark  that  they  abound 
in  inaccuracies,  and  are  not  free  from  gross  errors  some  of  which 
do  much  injustice  to  the  arguments  &  opinions  of  particular  members. 
All  this  may  be  explained  without  a  charge  of  wilful  misrepresenta- 
tion by  the  very  desultory  manner  in  which  his  notes  appear  to  have 
been  taken  his  ear  catching  particular  expressions  &  losing  quali- 
fications of  them;  and  by  prejudices  giving  to  his  mind,  all  the  bias 
which  an  honest  one  could  feel.  He  &  his  colleague  were  the  Rep- 
resentatives of  the  dominant  party  in  N.  York,  which  was  opposed 
to  the  Convention  &  the  object  of  it,  which  was  averse  to  any  essen- 
tial change  in  the  Articles  of  Confederation,  which  had  inflexibly 
refused  to  grant  even  a  duty  of  5  per  Ct.  on  imports  for  the  urgent 
debt  of  the  Revolution,  which  was  availing  itself,  of  the  peculiar 
situation  of  New  York,  for  taxing  the  consumption  of  her  neighbours, 
and  which  foresaw  that  a  primary  aim  of  the  Convention  wd.  be 
to  transfer  from  the  States  to  the  Common  authority,  the  entire 
regulation  of  foreign  Commerce.  Such  were  the  feelings  of  the  two 
Deputies,  that  on  finding  the  Convention  bent  on  radical  reform  of 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXCIII  53 1 

the  Federal  system,  they  left  it  in  the  midst  of  its  discussions  and 
before  the  opinions  &  views  of  many  of  the  members  were  drawn 
out  to  their  final  shape  &  practical  application. 

Without  impeaching  the  integrity  of  Luther  Martin,  it  may  be 
observed  of  him  also,  that  his  report  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Con- 
vention during  his  stay  in  it,  shews  by  its  colouring  that  his  feelings 
were  but  too  much  mingled  with  his  statements  and  inferences. 
There  is  good  ground  for  believing  that  Mr.  M.  himself,  became  sen- 
sible and  made  no  secret  of  his  regret,  that  in  his  address  to  the  Legis- 
lature of  his  State,  he  had  been  betrayed  by  the  irritated  state  of  his 
mind,  into  a  picture  that  might  do  injustice  both  to  the  Body  and 
to  particular  members.  

CCCXCIII.   James  Madison  to  Thomas  S.  Grimke.^ 

Montpr.  Jany,  6.  1834. 

You  wish  to  be  informed  of  the  errors  in  your  pamphlet  alluded 
to  in  my  last.  The  first  related  to  the  proposition  of  Doctor  Frank- 
lin in  favor  of  a  religious  service  in  the  Federal  Convention.  The 
proposition  was  received  &  treated  with  the  respect  due  to  it;  but 
the  lapse  of  time  which  had  preceded,  with  considerations  growing 
out  of  it,  had  the  efiPect  of  limiting  what  was  done,  to  a  reference  of 
the  proposition  to  a  highly  respectable  Committee.  This  issue  of  it 
may  be  traced  in  the  printed  Journal.  The  Quaker  usage,  never 
discontinued  in  the  State  &  the  place  where  the  Convention  held  its 
sittings,  might  not  have  been  without  an  influence  as  might  also, 
the  discord  of  religious  opinions  within  the  Convention,  as  well  as 
among  the  Clergy  of  the  Spot.  The  error  into  which  you  had  fallen 
may  have  been  confirmed  by  a  communication  in  the  National 
Intelligencer  *  some  years  ago,  said  to  have  been  received  through  a 
respectable  channel  from  a  member  of  the  Convention.  That 
the  communication  was  erroneous  is  certain;  whether  from  misap- 
prehension or  misrecollection,  uncertain. 

The  other  error  lies  in  the  view  which  your  note  for  the  i8th. 
page,  gives  of  Mr.  Pinckney's  draft  of  a  Constitution  for  the  U.  S, 
and  its  conformity  to  that  adopted  by  the  Convention.  It  appears 
that  the  Draft  laid  by  Mr.  P.  before  the  Convention,  was  like  some 
other  important  Documents,  not  among  its  preserved  proceedings. 
And  you  are  not  aware  that  insuperable  evidence  exists,  that  the  Draft 
in  the  published  Journal,  could  not,  in  a  number  of  instances,  material 
as  well  as  minute,  be  the  same  with  that  laid  before  the  Convention. 
Take  for  an  example  of  the  former,  the  Article  relating  to  the  House 

*  Documentary  History  of  the  Constitution^  V,  395-398. 
«  See  CCCLV  and  CCCLXXIX  above. 


53 2     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  Representatives,  more  than  any,  the  cornerstone  of  the  Fabric. 
That  the  election  of  it  by  the  peopUj  as  proposed  by  the  printed  draft 
in  the  Journal,  could  not  be  the  mode  of  Election  proposed  in  the  lost 
Draft,  must  be  inferred  from  the  face  of  the  Journal  itself:  For 
on  the  6th.  of  June,  but  a  few  days  after  the  lost  Draft  was  presented 
to  the  Convention,  Mr.  P.  moved  to  strike  the  word  ** people*'  out  of 
Mr.  Randolphs  proposition;  and  to  '^ Resolve  that  the  members  of 
the  first  branch  of  the  national  Legislature  ought  to  be  elected  by 
the  Legislatures  of  the  several  States.**  But  there  is  other  and  most 
conclusive  proof,  that  an  election  of  the  House  of  Representatives, 
by  the  people^  could  not  have  been  the  mode  proposed  by  him. 
There  are  a  number  of  other  points  in  the  published  Draft  some 
conforming  most  literallyy  to  the  adopted  Constitution,  which  it  is 
ascertainable^  could  not  have  been  the  same  in  the  Draft  laid  before 
the  Convention.  The  Conformity  &  even  identity  of  the  Draft 
in  the  Journal,  with  the  adopted  Constitution,  on  points  &  details 
the  result  of  conflicts  &  compromizes  of  opinion  apparent  in  the  Jour- 
nal, have  excited  an  embarrassing  curiosity  often  expressed  to  myself, 
or  in  my  presence.  The  subject  is  in  several  respects  a  delicate  one, 
and  it  is  my  wish  that  what  is  now  said  of  it  may  be  understood  as 
yielded  to  your  earnest  request,  and  as  entirely  confined  to  yourself. 
I  knew  Mr.  P.  well,  and  was  always  on  a  footing  of  friendship  with 
him.  But  this  consideration  ought  not  to  weigh  against  justice  to 
others,  as  well  as  against  truth  on  a  subject  like  that  of  the  Consti- 
tution of  the  U.  S. 

The  propositions  of  Mr.  Randolph  were  the  result  of  a  consulta- 
tion among  the  seven  Virginia  Deputies,  of  which  he,  being  at  the 
time  Governor  of  the  State,  was  the  organ.  The  propositions  were 
prepared  on  the  supposition  that,  considering  the  prominent  agency 
of  Virga.  in  bringg.  about  the  Convention  some  initiative  step  might 
be  expected  from  that  quarter.  It  was  meant  that  they  should 
sketch  a  real  and  adequate  Govt,  for  the  Union,  but  without  com- 
mitting the  parties  agst.  a  freedom  in  discussing  &  deciding  on  any 
of  them.  The  Journal  shews  that  they  were  in  fact  the  basis  of  the 
deliberations  &  proceedings  of  the  Convention.  And  I  am  persuaded 
that  altho'  not  in  a  developed  &  organized  form,  they  sufficiently 
contemplated  it;  and  moreover  that  they  embraced  a  fuller  outline 
of  an  adequate  System,  than  the  plan  laid  before  the  Convention, 
variant  as  that,  ascertainably,  must  have  been  from  the  Draft  now 
in  print. 

Memor.  No  provision  in  the  Draft  of  Mr.  P.  printed  in  the 
Journal  for  the  mode  of  Electing  the  President  of  U.  S. 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXCIV  533 

CCCXCIV.   James  Madison  to  William  Cogswell.* 

Montpr  Mar  lo,  1834 

You  give  me  a  credit  to  which  I  have  no  claim,  in  calling  me 

"  The  writer  of  the  Constitution  of  the  U.  S."    This  was  not  like  the 

fabled  Goddess  of  Wisdom,  the   offspring  of   a    single  brain.     It 

ought  to  be  regarded  as  the  work  of  many  heads  and  many  hands. 


CCCXCV.   N.  P.  Trist:  Memoranda." 

Montpellier,  Sept.  27th,  1834. 

" Hamtlion*s  Life  (the  forthcoming  volumes)  I  (N.  P.  T.)  men- 
tioned to  Mr.  M.  [Madison],  without  telling  him  the  source^  what  I 
had  heard  with  regard  to  the  bearing  of  the  work  upon  him.  His 
report  of  Hamilton's  speech  (in  the  convention  which  formed  the 
Constitution),  of  which  report  I  knew  Mr.  M.  had  furnished  a  copy 
to  the  son  of  A.  H.,  was  to  be  proved  to  be  incorrect,  and  he  was  to 
be  represented  as  having  deserted  Colonel  Hamilton.  Mr.  M., 
*I  can't  believe  it.'  Thereupon,  I  (N.  P.  T.)  told  him  that  my  infor- 
mation as  to  the  bearing  of  the  forthcoming  book  upon  him,  came 
from  the  son  of  Colonel  Hamilton  himself  —  the  son  engaged  in 
writing  the  life  of  his  father,  who  had  had  a  conversation  on  the  sub- 
ject with  Professor  Tucker  of  the  University  of  Virginia,  who  has 
just  returned  from  a  trip  to  New  York.  Professor  Tucker  had  men- 
tioned it  to  Professor  Davies,  and  the  latter  to  me.  I  added,  what 
I  had  heard,  that  there  was  nothing  like  unkind  feeling  towards  him 
(Mr.  Madison)  manifested  by  young  Mr.  Hamilton,  but  the  reverse. 
Such,  however,  was  to  be  the  complexion  of  the  work  as  to  himself. 

"Mr.  M.,  'Sorry  for  it.'  After  a  pause:  'I  can't  conceive  on 
what  ground  the  fidelity  of  my  report  of  Colonel  H.'s  speech  can  be 
impugned,  unless  it  should  proceed  from  the  error  of  confounding 
together  his  first  speech  and  his  second.  The  first,  I  reported  at 
length.  It  was  a  very  able  and  methodical  one,  containing  a  lucid 
expression  of  his  views:  views  which  he  made  no  secret  of  at  the  time  or 
subsequently^  particularly  with  persons  on  a  footing  of  the  ordinary 
confidence  among  gentlemen  thrown  into  political  relations  with 
each  other  on  subjects  of  great  moment.  The  second  speech  was  little 
else  than  a  repetition  of  the  other,  or  parts  of  the  other,  with  ampli- 
fications. That  I  did  not  report,  for  the  reason  just  stated,  and 
because  he  had  told  me  of  his  intention  to  write  it  out  himself,  and 

^  Library  of  Congress,  Madison  Papers,  Draft. 

■  H.  S.  Randall,  Life  of  Thomas  Jefferson,  III,  594-595.  Nicholas  P.  Trist  resided 
at  Monticello  the  last  two  or  three  years  of  Jefferson's  life  and  kept  daily  memoranda 
of  conversations  with  him. 


534     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

had  promised  me  a  copy.  The  promised  copy  he  never  gave  me; 
whether  he  ever  executed  his  intention  to  write  it  out,  even,  I  don't 
know.  Yates  has  blended  these  two  speeches  together  in  his  account 
of  the  proceedings.* 

''I  (N.  P.  T.)  here  reminded  Mr.  Madison  of  his  having  given 
me,  some  years  ago,  an  account  of  these  speeches,  and  those  of 
others  (of  which  I  made  a  memorandum  at  the  time,  which  is  among 
my  papers  in  Washington),  and  his  having  told  me  that  he  read  to 
Colonel  Hamilton  and  to  Gouvemeur  Morris  his  reports  of  their 
speeches.  That  Col.  H.  acknowledged  the  accuracy  of  his,  suggest- 
ing only  one  or  two  verbal  alterations,  and  that  G.  M.  laughed  and 
said  'yes,  it  is  all  right.' 

"Mr.  M.,  *  Yes,  Gouvemeur  Morris's  speech  was  a  very  extrav- 
agant one.  It  displayed  his  usual  talent,  and  also  in  a  striking  degree, 
his  usual  fondness  for  saying  things  and  advancing  doctrines  that 
no  one  else  would.  At  the  moment,  he  was  not  perhaps  himself 
conscious  how  far  he  went;  and  when  the  thing  stared  him  in  the  face 
(this  was  Mr.  M.'s  exact  expression),  as  written  down  by  me,  it  caused 
him  to  laugh,  while  he  acknowledged  its  truth.' 

"Mr.  M.,  'As  to  the  other  branch  of  the  subject,  I  deserted 
Colonel  Hamilton,  or  rather  Colonel  H.  deserted  me;  in  a  word, 
the  divergence  between  us  took  place  —  from  his  wishing  to  adminis^ 
tratiofiy  or  rather  to  administer  the  Government  (these  were  Mr.  M.'s 
very  words),  into  what  he  thought  it  ought  to  be;  while,  on  my  part, 
I  endeavored  to  make  it  conform  to  the  Constitution  as  understood 
by  the  Convention  that  produced  and  recommended  it,  and  partic- 
ularly by  the  State  conventions  that  adopted  it.' " 


CCCXCVI.   James  Madison  to  Edward  Coles.* 

October  15,  1834. 
It  is  well  known  that  the  large  States,  in  both  the  Federal  and 
State  Conventions,  regarded  the  aggregate  powers  of  the  Senate 
as  the  most  objectionable  feature  of  the  Constitution. 


CCCXCVn.   James  Madison  to  W.  A.  Duer.« 

Montpellier,  June  sth,  1835. 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  April  25th,  and  with  the  aid  of  a 
friend  and  amanuensis,  have  made  out  the  following  answer: 

On  the  subject  of  Mr.  Pinckney's  proposed  plan  of  a  Constitu- 
tion, it  is  to  be  observed  that  the  plan  printed  in  the  Journal  was  not 

^  Letters  and  ether  Writings  of  James  Madison,  IV,  369. 
*  Letters  and  other  Writings  of  James  Madison,  IV,  378-381. 


/ 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXCVII  535 

the  document  actually  presented  by  him  to  the  Convention.  That 
document  was  no  otherwise  noticed  in  the  proceedings  of  the  Conven- 
tion than  by  a  reference  of  it,  with  Mr.  Randolph's  plan,  to  a  com- 
mittee of  the  whole,  and  afterwards  to  a  committee  of  detail,  with 
others;  and  not  being  found  among  the  papers  left  with  President 
Washington,  and  finally  deposited  in  the  Department  of  State,  Mr. 
Adams,  charged  with  the  publication  of  them,  obtained  from  Mr. 
Pinckney  the  document  in  the  printed  Journals  as  a  copy  supplying 
the  place  of  the  missing  one.  In  this  there  must  be  error,  there 
being  sufficient  evidence,  even  on  the  face  of  the  Journals,  that  the 
copy  sent  to  Mr.  Adams  could  not  be  the  same  with  the  document 
laid  before  the  Convention.  Take,  for  example,  the  article  constitut- 
ing the  House  of  Representatives  the  comer-stone  of  the  fabric, 
the  identity,  even  verbal,  of  which,  with  the  adopted  Constitution, 
has  attracted  so  much  notice.  In  the  first  place,  the  details  and 
phraseology  of  the  Constitution  appear  to  have  been  anticipated. 
In  the  next  place,  it  appears  that  within  a  few  days  after  Mr.  Pinck- 
ney presented  his  plan  to  the  Convention,  he  moved  to  strike  out 
from  the  resolution  of  Mr.  Randolph  the  provision  for  the  election 
of  the  House  of  Representatives  by  the  people,  and  to  refer  the 
choice  of  that  House  to  the  Legislatures  of  the  States,  and  to  this 
preference  it  appears  he  adhered  in  the  subsequent  proceedings  of 
the  Convention.  Other  discrepancies  will  be  found  in  a  source 
also  within  your  reach,  in  a  pamphlet*  published  by  Mr.  Pinckney 
soon  after  the  close  of  the  Convention,  in  which  he  refers  to  parts  of 
his  plan  which  are  at  variance  with  the  document  in  the  printed 
Journal.  A  friend  who  had  examined  and  compared  the  two  docu- 
ments has  pointed  out  the  discrepancies  noted  below.f     Further 

*  Observations  on  the  plan  of  Government  submitted  to  the  Federal  Convention 
on  the  28th  of  May,  1787,  by  C.  Pinckney,  &c.  See  Select  Tracts,  Vol.  II,  in  the  Library 
of  the  Historical  Society  of  New  York. 

t  Discrepancies  noted  between  the  plan  of  Mr.  C.  Pinckney  as  furnished  by  him 
to  Mr.  Adams,  and  the  plan  presented  to  the  Convention  as  described  in  his  pamphlet. 

The  pamphlet  refers  to  the  following  provisions  which  are  not  found  in  the  plan 
furnished  to  Mr.  Adams  as  forming  a  part  of  the  plan  presented  to  the  Convention: 
I.  The  Executive  term  of  service  7  years.  2.  A  council  of  revision.  3.  A  power  to 
convene  and  prorogue  the  Legislature.  4.  For  the  junction  or  division  of  States. 
5.  For  enforcing  the  attendance  of  members  of  the  Legislature.  6.  For  securing 
exclusive  right  of  authors  and  discoverers. 

The  plan,  according  to  the  pamphlet,  provided  for  the  appointment  of  all  officers, 
except  judges  and  ministers,  by  the  Executive,  omitting  the  consent  of  the  Senate 
required  in  the  plan  sent  to  Mr.  Adams.  Article  numbered  9,  according  to  the 
pamphlet,  refers  the  decision  of  disputes  between  the  States  to  the  mode  prescribed 
under  the  Confederation.  Article  numbered  7,  in  the  plan  sent  to  Mr.  Adams,  gives 
to  the  senate  the  regulating  of  the  mode.     There  b  no  numerical  correspondence 


536     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

evidence*  on  this  subject^  not  within  your  own  reach,  must  await 
a  future,  perhaps  a  posthumous  disclosure. 

One  conjecture  explaining  the  phenomenon  has  been,  that  Mr. 
Pinckney  interwove  with  the  draught  sent  to  Mr.  Adams  passages 
as  agreed  to  in  the  Convention  in  the  progress  of  the  work,  and  which, 
after  a  lapse  of  more  than  thirty  years,  were  not  separated  by  his 
recollection. 

The  resolutions  of  Mr.  Randolph,  the  basis  on  which  the  deliber- 
ations of  the  Convention  proceeded,  were  the  result  of  a  consultation 
among  the  Virginia  Deputies,  who  thought  it  possible  that,  as  Vir- 
ginia had  taken  so  leading  a  partf  in  reference  to  the  Federal  Con- 
vention, some  initiative  propositions  might  be  expected  from  them. 
They  were  understood  not  to  commit  any  of  the  members  absolutely 
or  definitively  on  the  tenor  of  them.  The  resolutions  will  be  seen 
to  present  the  characteristic  j)rovision3  and  features  of  a  Government 
as  complete  (in  some  respects,  perhaps,  more  so)  as  the  plan  of  Mr. 
Pinckney,  though  without  being  thrown  into  a  formal  shape.    The 

between  the  articles  as  placed  in  the  plan  sent  to  Mr.  Adams»  and  as  noted  in  the 
pamphlet,  and  the  latter  refers  numerically  to  more  than  are  contained  in  the  former. 
It  is  remarkable,  that  although  the  plan  furnished  to  Mr.  Adams  enumerates, 
with  such  close  resemblance  to  the  language  of  the  Constitution  as  adopted,  the  follow- 
ing provisions,  and  among  them  the  fundamental  article  relating  to  the  constitution  of 
the  House  of  Representatives,  they  are  unnoticed  in  his  observations  on  the  plan  of 
Government  submitted  by  him  to  the  Convention,  while  minor  provisions,  as  that 
enforcing  the  attendance  of  members  of  the  Legislature  are  commented  on.  I  cite  the 
following,  though  others  might  be  added:  3.  To  subdue  a  rebellion  in  any  State  on 
application  of  its  Legislature.  2.  To  provide  such  dock-yards  and  arsenals,  and  erect 
iuch  fortifications,  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  U.  States,  and  to  exercise  exclusive 
jurisdiction  therein.  4.  To  establish  post  and  military  roads.  5.  To  declare  the  pun- 
ishment of  treason,  which  shall  consist  only  in  levying  war  against  the  United  States, 
or  any  of  them,  or  in  adhering  to  their  enemies.  No  person  shall  be  convicted  of  treason 
but  by  the  testimony  of  two  witnesses.  6.  No  tax  shall  be  laid  on  articles  exported 
from  the  States. 

1.  Election  by  the  people  of  the  House  of  Representatives.' 

2.  The  Executive  veto  on  the  laws.    See  the  succeeding  numbers  as  above. 

'  Not  improbably  unnoticed,  because  the  plan  presented  by  him  to  the  Conven- 
tion contained  his  favourite  mode  of  electing  the  House  of  Representatives  by  the 
State  Legislatures,  so  essentially  different  from  that  of  an  election  by  the  people,  as 
in  the  Constitution  recommended  for  adoption. 


*  Alluding  particularly  to  the  debates  in  the  Convention  and  the  letter  of  Mr. 
Pinckney  of  March  28th,  1789,  to  Mr.  Madison.  (This  note  not  included  in  the  letter 
sent  to  Mr.  Duer.) 

t  Virginia  proposed,  in  1786,  the  Convention  at  Annapolis,  which  recommended 
the  Convention  at  Philadelphia,  of  1787,  and  was  the  first  of  the  States  that  acted  on, 
and  complied  with,  the  recommendation  from  Annapolis.  (This  note  not  included 
in  the  letter  sent  to  Mr.  Duer.) 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCXCVIII  S3 7 

moment,  indeed,  a  real  Constitution  was  looked  for  as  a  substitute 
for  the  Confederacy,  the  distribution  of  the  Government  into  the 
usual  departments  became  a  matter  of  course  with  all  who  speculated 
on  the  prospective  change,  and  the  form  of  general  resolutions  was 
adopted  as  the  most  convenient  for  discussion.  It  may  be  observed, 
that  in  reference  to  the  powers  to  be  given  to  the  General  Govern- 
ment the  resolutions  comprehended  as  well  the  powers  contained 
in  the  articles  of  Confederation,  without  enumerating  them,  as  others 
not  overlooked  in  the  resolutions,  but  left  to  be  developed  and 
defined  by  the  Convention. 

With  regard  to  the  plan  proposed  by  Mr.  Hamilton,  I  may  say 
to  you,  that  a  Constitution  such  as  you  describe  was  never  proposed 
in  the  Convention,  but  was  communicated  to  me  by  him  at  the  close 
of  it.  It  corresponds  with  the  outline  published  in  the  Journal.  The 
original  draught  being  in  possession  of  his  family  and  their  property, 
I  have  considered  any  publicity  of  it  as  lying  with  them. 

Mr.  Yates's  notes,  as  you  observe,  are  very  inaccurate;  they 
are,  also,  in  some  respects,  grossly  erroneous.  The  desultory  manner 
in  which  he  took  them,  catching  sometimes  but  half  the  language, 
may,  in  part,  account  for  it.  Though  said  to  be  a  respectable  and 
honorable  man,  he  brought  with  him  to  the  Convention  the  strong- 
est prejudices  against  the  existence  and  object  of  the  body,  in  which 
he  was  strengthened  by  the  course  taken  in  its  deliberations.  He 
left  the  Convention,  also,  long  before  the  opinions  and  views  of  many 
members  were  finally  developed  into  their  practical  application. 
The  passion  and  prejudice  of  Mr.  L.  Martin  betrayed  in  his  pub- 
lished letter  could  not  fail  to  discolour  his  representations.  He  also 
left  the  Convention  before  the  completion  of  their  work.  I  have 
heard,  but  will  not  vouch  for  the  fact,  that  he  became  sensible  of, 
and  admitted  his  error.  Certain  it  is,  that  he  joined  the  party  who 
favored  the  Constitution  in  its  most  liberal  construction. 


CCCXCVIII.   James  Madison  on  Nulufication.* 

1835-^6. 
A  political  system  which  does  not  contain  an  effective  provision 
for  a  peaceable  decision  of  all  controversies  arising  within  itself, 
would  be  a  government  in  name  only.  Such  a  provision  is  obviously 
essential;  and  it  is  equally  obvious  that  it  cannot  be  either  peaceable 
or  effective  by  making  every  part  an  authoritative  empire.  The 
final  appeal  in  such  cases  must  be  to  the  authority  of  the  whole, 
not  to  that  of  the  parts  separately  and  independently.     This  was 

*  Letters  and  other  Writings  0/  James  Madison,  IV,  425. 


538      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  view  taken  of  the  subject  while  the  Constitution  was  under  the 
consideration  of  the  people.  It  was  this  view  of  it  which  dictated 
the  clause  declaring  that  the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the  United 
States  should  be  the  supreme  law  of  the  land,  anything  in  the  consti- 
tution or  laws  of  any  of  the  States  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.* 
It  was  the  same  view  which  specially  prohibited  certain  powers  and 
acts  to  the  States,  among  them  any  laws  violating  the  obligation  of 
contracts,  and  which  dictated  the  appellate  provision  in  the  judicial 
act  passed  by  the  first  Congress  under  the  Constitution.! 

*  See  Article  vi  f  See  Article  L 


CCCXCIX.   James  Madison  to  Jose?h  Wood,* 

Feby  27,  1836. 

I  have  received,  sir,  your  letter  of  the  i6th  instant,  requesting 
such  information  as  I  might  be  able  to  give  pertaining  to  a  biog- 
raphy of  your  father-in-law,  the  late  Chief  Justice  Ellsworth. 

...  In  the  Convention  which  framed  the  Constitution  of  the 
U.  States  he  bore  an  interesting  part,  and  signed  the  instrument 
in  its  final  shape,  with  the  cordiality  verified  by  the  support  he  gave 
to  its  ratification.  

CCCC.   James  Madison  to * 

March,  1836. 

It  is  well  known  that  the  equality  of  the  States  in  the  Federal 
Senate  was  a  compromise  between  the  larger  and  the  smaller  States, 
the  former  claiming  a  proportional  representation  in  both  branches 
of  the  Legislature,  as  due  to  their  superior  population;  the  latter 
an  equality  in  both,  as  a  safeguard  to  the  reserved  sovereignty  of 
the  States,  an  object  which  obtained  the  concurrence  of  members 
from  the  larger  States.  But  it  is  equally  true,  though  but  little 
reverted  to  as  an  instance  of  miscalculating  speculation,  that,  as 
soon  as  the  smaller  States  had  secured  more  than  a  proportional 
share  in  the  proposed  Government,  they  became  favourable  to  aug^ 
mentations  of  its  powers,  and  that,  under  the  administration  of  the 
Government,  they  have  generally,  in  contests  between  it  and  the 
State  governments,  leaned  to  the  former.     .  .  . 

Nothing  is  more  certain  than  that  the  tenure  of  the  Senate  was 
meant  as  an  obstacle  to  the  instability,  which  not  only  history,  but 
the  experience  of  our  country,  had  shown  to  be  the  besetting  infirm- 
ity of  popular  governments.     .  .  . 

*  LetUrs  and  Othet  Writings  of  Jams  Madison^  IV,  437-428. 

*  Letters  and  Other  Writings  of  James  Madison^  IV,  4i9-43a 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCCI  539 

CCCCI.   James  Madison:  Preface  to  Debates  in  the   Con- 
vention OF  1787.* 

A  sketch  never  finished  nor  applied. 

As  the  weakness  and  wants  of  man  naturally  lead  to  an  association 
of  individuals,  under  a  common  authority,  whereby  each  may  have 
the  protection  of  the  whole  against  danger  from  without,  and  enjoy 
in  safety  within,  the  advantages  of  social  intercourse,  and  an  exchange 
of  the  necessaries  &  comforts  of  life:  in  like  manner  feeble  commun- 
ities, independent  of  each  other,  have  resorted  to  a  Union,  less  inti- 
mate, but  with  common  Councils,  for  the  common  safety  agst. 
powerful  neighbors,  and  for  the  preservation  of  justice  and  peace 
among  themselves.  Ancient  history  furnishes  examples  of  these 
confederacies,  tho*  with  a  very  imperfect  account,  of  their  structure, 
and  of  the  attributes  and  functions  of  the  presiding  Authority.  There 
are  examples  of  modern  date  also,  some  of  them  still  existing,  the 
modifications  and  transactions  of  which  are  sufficiently  known. 

It  remained  for  the  British  Colonies,  now  United  States,  of 
North  America,  to  add  to  those  examples,  one  of  a  more  interest- 
ing character  than  any  of  them:  which  led  to  a  system  without  a 
precedent  ancient  or  modem,  a  system  founded  on  popular  rights, 
and  so  combing,  a  federal  form  with  the  forms  of  indivual  Republics, 
as  may  enable  each  to  supply  the  defects  of  the  other  and  obtain  the 
advantages  of  both  — 

Whilst  the  Colonies  enjoyed  the  protection  of  the  parent  country 
as  it  was  called,  against  foreign  danger;  and  were  secured  by  its 
superintending  controul,  against  conflicts  among  themselves,  they 
continued  independente  of  each  other,  under  a  common,  tho'  lim- 
ited dependence,  on  the  parental  Authority.  When  the  growth  of 
the  offspring  in  strength  and  in  wealth,  awakened  the  jealousy  and 
tempted  the  avidity  of  the  parent,  into  schemes  of  usurpation  Be 
exaction,  the  obligation  was  felt  by  the  former  of  uniting  their  coun- 
sels, and  efforts  to  avert  the  impending  calamity. 

As  early  as  the  year  1754,  indications  having  been  given  of  a 
design  in  the  Brittish  Government  to  levy  contributions  on  the  Col- 

^  The  heading  was  crossed  out  by  Madison,  but  it  forms  a  good  title  to  the  paper. 
This  document  is  a  rough  draft,  evidently  written  by  Madison  near  the  close  of  his 
life  (see  the  next  to  the  last  paragraph).  There  are  many  interlineations  and  double 
readings,  which  would  have  been  removed  by  the  final  revision  Madison  was  never 
able  to  give  it.  The  editor  has  accordingly  treated  this  document  more  freely  than 
any  other  in  this  work  in  the  attempt  to  render  it  serviceable.  The  text  here  printed 
is  taken  from  the  Documentary  History  of  the  ConstttvtioHf  III,  1-7,  796  ft  seq.;  some 
of  the  notes  have  been  lost  since  Gilpin  first  printed  it  in  1840,  and  those  gaps  have 
been  filled  from  the  Gilpin  edition. 


540     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

onies,  without  their  consent;  a  meeting  of  Colonial  deputies  took 
place  at  Albany,  which  attempted  to  introduce  a  compromising 
substitute  that  might  at  once  satisfy  the  British  requisitions  and 
save  their  own  rights  from  violation.  The  attempt  had  no  other 
effect,  than  by  bringing  these  rights  into  a  more  conspicuous  view, 
to  invigorate  the  attachment  to  them  on  one  side;  and  to  nourish 
the  haughty  encroaching  spirit  on  the  other.^ 

In  1774.  The  progress  made  by  G.  B.  in  the  open  assertion  of 
her  pretensions,  and  in  the  apprended  purpose  of  otherwise  main- 
taining them  by  Legislative  enactments  and  declarations  had  been 
such  that  the  Colonies  did  not  hesitate  to  assemble,  by  their  depu- 
ties, in  a  formal  Congress,  authorized  to  oppose  to  the  British  inno- 
vations whatever  measures  might  be  found  best  adapted  to  the 
occasion;  without  however  losing  sight  of  an  eventual  reconcilia- 
tion. 

The  dissuasive  measures  of  that  Congress,  being  without  effect, 
another  Congress  was  held  in  1775,  whose  pacific  efforts  to  bring 
about  a  change  in  the  views  of  the  other  party,  being  equally  unavail- 
ing, and  the  commencement  of  actual  hostilities  having  at  length 
put  an  end  to  all  hope  of  reconciliation;  The  Congress  finding  more- 
over that  the  popular  voice  began  to  call  for  an  entire  &  perpetual 
dissolution  of  the  political  ties  which  had  connected  them  with 
G.  B.,  proceeded  on  the  memorable  4th  of  July,  1776,  to  declare  the 
13  Colonies,  independent  States 

During  the  discussions  of  this  solemn  Act,  a  Committee  consist- 
ing of  a  Member  from  each  colony  had  been  appointed  to  prepare  & 
digest  a  form  of  Confederation,  for  the  future  management  of  the 
common  interests,  which  had  hitherto  been  left  to  the  discretion  of 
Congress,  guided  by  the  exigences  of  the  contest,  and  by  the  known 
intentions  or  occasional  instructions  of  the  Colonial  Legislatures. 

It  appears  that  as  early  as  the  2i8t  of  July  1775,  A  plan  entitled 
"Articles  of  Confederation  &  perpetual  Union  of  the  Colonies"  had 
been  sketched  by  Doer  Franklin,  The  plan  being  on  that  day  sub- 
mitted by  him  to  Congress;  and  tho'  not  copied  into  their  Journals 
remaining  on  their  files  in  his  handwriting.     But  notwithstanding 

^Crossed  out:  "see  the  masterly  letter  of  Dr.  Franklin  to  Govemour  Shirly  in 
1754,  in  which  at  that  early  day  the  argumentative  vindication  of  America  against 
the  claim  of  the  British  parliament  is  afterwards  expanded  into  volumes,  is  brought 
seen  within  the  compass  of  a  nut  shell  few  pages  short  letter  which  is  fated  with  the 
greatest  possible  is  triumphantly  repelled,  by  reasoning,  repelled  with  the  greatest 
possible  force,  within  the  smallest  possible  compass.  The  letter  short  as  it  is  comprises 
the  germ,  of  which  all  the  succeeding  arguments,  are  but  arguments  of  succeeding 
patriots  are  but  a  development.*' 


APPENDIX  A,    CCCCI  54I 

the  term  "perpetual"  observed  in  the  title,  the  articles  provided 
expressly  for  the  event  of  a  return  of  the  Colonies  to  a  connection 
with  G.  Britain. 

This  sketch  became  a  basis  for  the  plan  reported  by  the  Come, 
on  the  12  of  July,  now  also  remaining  on  the  files  of  Congress,  in 
the  handwriting  of  Mr.  Dickinson.  The  plan,  tho'  dated  after  the 
Declaration  of  Independence,  was  probaly  drawn  up  before  that 
event;  since  the  name  of  Colonies^  and  not  States  is  used  throughout 
the  draught.  The  plan  reported,  was  debated  and  amended  from 
time  to  time  till  the  17th  of  November  1777,  when  it  was  agreed  to 
by  Congress,  and  proposed  to  the  Legislatures  of  the  States,  with 
an  explanatory  and  recommendatory  letter.  The  ratifications  of 
these  by  their  Delegates  in  Congs.  duly  authorized  took  place  at 
successive  dates;  but  were  not  compleated  till  March  i,  1781.  when 
Maryland  who  had  made  it  a  prerequisite  that  the  vacant  lands 
acquired  from  the  British  Crown  should  be  a  Common  fund,  yielded 
to  the  persuasion  that  a  final  &  formal  establishment  of  the  federal 
Union  &  Govt,  would  make  a  favorable  impression  not  only  on 
other  foreign  nations,  but  on  G.  B.  herself. 

The  great  difficulty  experienced  in  so  framing  the  fedl.  system 
as  to  obtain  the  unanimity  required  for  its  due  sanction,  may  be 
inferred  from  the  long  interval,  and  recurring  discussions,  between 
the  commencement  and  completion  of  the  work;  ^  from  the  changes 
made  during  its  progress;  from  the  language  of  Congs.  when  propos- 
ing it  to  the  States,  wch.  dwelt  on  the  impracticability  of  devising 
a  system  acceptable  to  all  of  them;  from  the  reluctant  assent  given 
by  some;  and  the  various  alterations  proposed  by  others;  and  by  a 
tardiness  in  others  again  which  produced  a  special  address  to  them 
from  Congs.  enforcing  the  duty  of  sacrificing  local  considerations 
and  favorite  opinions  to  the  public  safety,  and  the  necessary 
harmony;  nor  was  the  assent  of  some  of  the  States  finally  yielded 
without  strong  protests  against  particular  articles,  and  a  reliance  on 
future  amendments  removing  their  objections. 

It  is  to  be  recollected,  no  doubt,  that  these  delays  might  be 
occasioned  in  some  degree,  by  an  occupation  of  the  public  Councils 
both  general  &  local,  with  the  deliberations  and  measures,  essential 
to  a  Revolutionary  struggle;  But  there  must  have  been  a  balance 
for  these  causes,  in  the  obvious  motives  to  hasten  the  establishment 
of  a  regular  and  efficient  Govt.;  and  in  the  tendency  of  the  crisis 
to  repress  opinions  and  pretensions,  which  might  be  inflexible  in 
another  state  of  things. 

^  Crossed  out:  "see  Jefferson's  manuscript  debates  on  the  rules  of  voting  and  of 
taxing  "  and  "see  History  of  the  confederation  annexed  to  the  Secret-Journal". 


542     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

The  principal  difficulties  which  embarrassed  the  progress,  and 
retarded  the  completion  of  the  plan  of  Confederation,  may  be  traced 
to  I.  the  natural  reluctance  of  the  parties  to  a  relinquishment  of 
power:  2  a  natural  jealousy  of  its  abuse  in  other  hands  than  their 
own:  3  the  rule  of  suffrage  among  parties  unequal  in  size,  but  equal 
in  sovereignty.  4.  The  ratio  of  contributions  in  money  and  in  troops, 
among  parties,  whose  inequality  in  size  did  not  correspond  with  that 
of  their  wealth,  or  of  their  military  or  free  population.  5.  The  selec- 
tion and  definition  of  the  powers,  at  once  necessary  to  the  federal 
head,  and  safe  to  the  several  members. 

To  these  sources  of  difficulty,  incident  to  the  formation  of  all 
such  confederacies,  were  added  two  others  one  of  a  temporary,  the 
other  of  a  permanent  nature.  The  first  was  the  Case  of  the  Crown 
lands,  so  called  because  they  had  been  held  by  the  British  Crown, 
and  being  ungranted  to  individuals  when,  its  authority  ceased,  were 
considered  by  the  States  within  whose  charters  or  asserted  limits 
they  lay,  as  devolving  on  them;  whilst  it  was  contended  by  the  others, 
that  being  wrested  from  the  dethroned  authority  by  the  equal 
exertion  of  all,  they  resulted  of  right  and  in  equity  to  the  benefit  of 
all.  The  lands  being  of  vast  extent  and  of  growing  value,  were  the 
occasion  of  much  discussion  &  heart-burning;  &  proved  the  most 
obstinate  of  the  impediments  to  an  earlier  consummation  of  the  plan 
of  federal  Govt.  The  State  of  Maryland  the  last  that  acceded  to 
it  held  out  as  already  noticed  till  March  i.  1781.  and  then  yielded 
only  to  the  hope  that  by  giving  a  Stable  &  authoritative  character 
to  the  Confederation,  a  successful  termination  of  the  contest  might 
be  accelerated.  The  dispute  was  happily  compromised  by  success- 
ive surrenders  of  portions  of  the  territory  by  the  States  having  exclu- 
sive claims  to  it,  and  acceptances  of  them  by  Congress. 

The  other  source  of  dissatisfaction  was  the  peculiar  situation 
of  some  of  the  States,  which  having  no  convenient  ports  for  foreign 
commerce,  were  subject  to  be  taxed  by  their  neighbors,  thro  whose 
ports,  their  commerce  was  carryed  on.  New  Jersey,  placed  between 
Phila.  &  N.  York,  was  likened  to  a  Cask  tapped  at  both  ends:  and 
N.  Carolina  between  Virga.  &  S.  Carolina  to  a  patient  bleeding  at 
both  Arms.  The  Articles  of  Confederation  provided  no  remedy 
for  the  complaint:  which  produced  a  strong  protest  on  the  part  of 
N.  Jersey;  and  never  ceased  to  be  a  source  of  dissatisfaction  &  dis- 
cord, until  the  new  Constitution,  superseded  the  old. 

But  the  radical  infirmity  of  ''the  arts,  of  Confederation."  was 
the  dependance  of  Congs,  on  the  voluntary  and  simultaneous  com- 
pliance with  its  Requisitions,  by  so  many  independant  communities, 
each  consulting  more  or  less  its  particular  interests  &  convenience 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCCI  S43 

and  distrusting  the  compliance  of  the  others.  Whilst  the  paper 
emissions  of  Congs.  continued  to  circulate  they  were  employed  as 
a  sinew  of  war,  like  gold  Be  silver.  When  that  ceased  to  be  the  case, 
the  fatal  defect  of  the  political  System  was  felt  in  its  alarming  force. 
The  war  was  merely  kept  alive  and  brought  to  a  successful  conclu- 
sion by  such  foreign  aids  and  temporary  expedients  as  could  be 
applied;  a  hope  prevailing  with  many,  and  a  wish  with  all,  that  a  state 
of  peace,  and  the  sources  of  prosperity  opened  by  it,  would  give  to 
the  Confederacy  in  practice,  the  efficiency  which  had  been  inferred 
from  its  theory. 

The  close  of  the  war  however  brought  no-cure  for  the  public 
embarrasments.  The  States  relieved  from  the  pressure  of  foreign 
danger,  and  flushed  with  the  enjoyment  of  independent  and  sover- 
eign power;  (instead  of  a  diminished  disposition  to  part  with  it,) 
persevered  in  omissions  and  in  measures  incompatible  with  their 
relations  to  the  Federal  Govt,  and  with  those  among  themselves;  * 

Having  served  as  a  member  of  Congs.  through  the  period  between 
Mar.  1780  &  the  arrival  of  peice  in  1783,  I  had  become  intimately 
acquainted  with  the  public  distresses  and  the  causes  of  them.  I  had 
observed  the  successful  —  opposition  to  every  attempt  to  procure 
a  remedy  by  new  grants  of  power  to  Congs.  I  had  found  moreover 
that  despair  of  success  hung  over  the  compromising  provision  for 
the  public  necessities  of  April  1783  which  had  been  so  elaborately 
planned  and  so  impressively  recommended  to  the  States.*  Sym- 
pathizing, under  this  aspect  of  affairs,  in  the  alarm  of  the  friends  of 
free  Govt,  at  the  threatened  danger  of  an  abortive  result  to  the  great 
&  perhaps  last  experiment  in  its  favour,  I  could  not  be  insensible 
to  the  obligation  to  co-operate  as  far  as  I  could  in  averting  the  calam- 
ity. With  this  view  I  acceded  to  the  desire  of  my  fellow  Citizens 
of  the  County  that  I  should  be  one  of  its  representitives  in  the  Legis- 
lature, hoping  that  I  might  there  best  contribute  to  inculcate  the 
critical  posture  to  which  the  Revolutionary  cause  was  reduced, 
and  the  merit  of  a  leading  agency  of  the  State  in  bringing  about  a 
rescue  of  the  Union  and  the  blessings  of  liberty  staked  on  it,  from  an 
impending  catastrophe. 

It  required  but  little  time  after  taking  my  seat  in  the  House  of 
Delegates  in  May  1784.  to  discover  that  however  favorable  the 
general  disposition  of  the  State  might  be  towards  the  Confederacy 
the  Legislature  retained  the  aversion  of  its  predecessors  to  transfers 

*  See  address  of  Congress. 

^  Crossed  out:  "  (notwithstanding,  the  urgenqr  of  the  national  engagements,  and 
th(  increasing  annrchy  and  collisions  which  threatened  the  Union  itself)." 


544     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

of  power  from  the  State  to  the  Govt,  of  the  Union;  notwithstanding 
the  urgent  demands  of  the  Federal  Treasury;  the  glaring  inade- 
quacy of  the  authorized  mode  of  supplying  it,  the  rapid  growth  of 
anarchy  in  the  Fedl.  System,  and  the  animosity  kindled  among  its 
members  by  their  conflicting  regulations. 

The  temper  of  the  Legislature  &  the  wayward  course  of  its 
proceedings  may  be  gathered  from  the  Journals  of  its  Sessions  in 
the  years  1784  &  1785. 

The  failure  however  of  the  varied  propositions  in  the  Legislature 
for  enlarging  the  powers  of  Congress,  the  continued  failure  of  the 
efforts  of  Congs.  to  obtain  from  them  the  means  of  providing  for 
the  debts  of  the  Revolution;  and  of  countervailing  the  commercial 
laws  of  G.  B,  a  source  of  much  irritation  &  agst.  which  the  separate 
efforts  of  the  States  were  found  worse  than  abortive;  these  Considera- 
tions with  the  lights  thrown  on  the  whole  subject,  by  the  free  & 
full  discussion  it  had  undergone  led  to  a  general  acquiescence  in 
the  Resoln.  passed,  on  the  21.  of  Jany.  1786.  which  proposed  & 
invited  a  meeting  of  Deputies  from  all  the  States  to  insert  the  Resol 
(See  Journal.)  i. 

The  resolution  had  been  brought  forward  some  weeks  before  on 
the  failure  of  a  proposed  grant  of  power  to  Congress  to  collect  a 
revenue  from  commerce,  which  had  been  abandoned  by  its  friends 
in  consequence  of  material  alterations  made  in  the  grant  by  a  Com- 
mittee of  the  whole.  The  Resolution  tho  introduced  by  Mr.  Tyler 
an  influencial  member,  who  having  never  served  in  Congress,  had 
more  the  ear  of  the  House  than  those  whose  services  there  exposed 
them  to  an  imputable  bias,  was  so  little  acceptable  that  it  was  not 
then  persisted  in.  Being  now  revived  by  him,  on  the  last  day  of 
the  Session,  and  being  the  alternative  of  adjourning  without  any 
effort  for  the  crisis  in  the  affairs  of  the  Union,  it  obtained  a  general 
vote;  less  however  with  some  of  its  friends  from  a  confidence  in  the 
success  of  the  experiment  than  from  a  hope  that  it  might  prove  a 
step  to  a  more  comprehensive  &  adequate  provision  for  the  wants 
of  the  Confederacy 

It  happened  also  that  Commissioners  who  had  been  appointed  by 
Virga.  &  Maryd.  to  settle  the  jusisdiction  on  waters  dividing  the  two 
States  had,  apart  from  their  official  reports,  recomended  a  uniform- 
ity in  the  regulations  of  the  2  States  on  several  subjects  &  partic- 
ularly on  those  having  relation  to  foreign  trade.  It  apeared  at 
the  same  time  that  Maryd.  had  deemed  a  concurrence  of  her  neigh- 
bors Pena  —  &  Delaware  indispensable  in  such  a  case,  who  for  like 
reasons  would  require  that  of  their  neighbors.  So  apt  and  forceable 
an  illustration  of  the  necessity  of  a  uniformity  throughout  all  the 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCCI  545 

States,  could  not  but  favour  the  passage  of  a  Resolution  which 
proposed  a  Convention  having  that  for  its  object. 

The  comissioners  appointed  by  the  Legist:  &  who  attended  the 
Convention  were  E.  Randolph  the  Attorney  of  the  State,  St.  Geo: 
Tucker  &  J.  M.  The  designation  of  the  time  &  place  for  its  meeting 
to  be  proposed  and  communicated  to  the  States  having  been  left 
to  the  Comrs:  they  named  for  the  time  early  September  and  for  the 
place  the  City  of  Annapolis  avoiding  the  residence  of  Congs.  and  large 
Commercial  Cities  as  liable  to  suspicions  of  an  extraneous  influence. 

Altho  the  invited  Meeting  appeared  to  be  generally  favored, 
five  States  only  assembled;  some  failing  to  make  appointments,  and 
some  of  the  individuals  appointed  not  hastening  their  attendance, 
the  result  in  both  cases  being  ascribed  mainly,  to  a  belief  that  the 
time  had  not  arrived  for  such  a  political  reform,  as  might  be  expected 
from  a  further  experience  of  its  necessity. 

But  in  the  interval  between  the  proposal  of  the  Convention  and 
the  time  of  its  meeting  such  had  been  the  advance  of  public  opinion 
in  the  desired  direction,  stimulated  as  it  had  been  by  the  effect  of 
the  contemplated  object  of  the  meeting,  in  turning  the  general 
attention  to  the  Critical  State  of  things,  and  in  calling  forth  the  senti- 
ments and  exertions  of  the  most  enlightened  &  influencial  patriots, 
that  the  Convention  thin  as  it  was  did  not  scruple  to  decline  the 
limited  task  assigned  to  it,  and  to  recommend  to  the  States  a  Conven- 
tion with  powers  adequate  to  the  occasion;  nor  was  it  unnoticed 
that  the  commission  of  the  N.  Jersey  Deputation,  had  extended  its 
object  to  a  general  provision  for  the  exigencies  of  the  Union.  A 
recommendation  for  this  enlarged  purpose  was  accordingly  reported 
by  a  Come,  to  whom  the  subject  had  been  referred.  It  was  drafted 
by  Col:  H.  and  finally  agreed  to  unanimously  in  the  following  form. 
Insert  it. 

The  recommendation  was  well  reed,  by  the  Legislature  of  Virga. 
which  happened  to  be  the  first  that  acted  on  it,  and  ^  the  example  of 
her  compliance  was  made  as  conciliatory  and  impressive  as  possible. 
The  Legislatures  were  unanimous  or  very  nearly  so  on  the  occasion, 
and  as  a  proof  of  the  magnitude  &  solemnity  attached  to  it,  they 
placed  Genl.  W.  at  the  head  of  the  Deputation  from  the  State; 
and  as  a  proof  of  the  deep  interest  he  felt  in  the  case  he  overstepped 
the  obstacles  to  his  acceptance  of  the  appointment. 

The  act  complying  with  the  recommendation  from  Annapolis 
was  in  the  terms  following. 

A  resort  to  a  General  Convention  to  remodel  the  Confederacy 

^  Crossed  out:  "as  the  preparation  of  the  bill  fell  on  me,  it  was  my  study  to  make". 


546     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

was  not  a  new  idea.  It  had  entered  at  an  early  date  into  the  con- 
versations and  speculations  of  the  most  reflecting  &  foreseeing  obser- 
vers of  the  inadequacy  of  the  powers  allowed  to  Congress.  In  a 
pamphlet  published  in  May~8i  at  the  Seat  of  Congs  Peletiah  Web- 
ster an  able  tho'  not  conspicuous  Citizen,  after  discussing  the  fiscal 
system  of  the  U.  States,  and  suggesting  among  other  remedial  pro- 
visions [one]  including  a  national  Bank  remarks  that  ''The  Authority 
of  Congs.  at  present  is  very  inadequate  to  the  performance  of  their 
duties;  and  this  indicates  the  necessity  of  their  calling  a  Continental 
Convention  for  the  express  purpose  of  ascertaining,  defining,  enlarg- 
ing, and  limiting  the  duties  &  powers  of  their  Constitution." 

On  the  I.  day  of  Apl.  1783,  Col.  Hamilton,  in  a  debate  in  Congs. 
observed  that:  —  * 

He  alluded  probably  to  (see  Life  of  Schuyler  in  Longacre)  * 

It  does  not  appear  however  that  his  expectation  had  been  ful- 
fiUed 

In  a  letter  to  J.  M.  from  R.  H.  Lee  then  President  of  Conga, 
dated  Novr.  26  1784    He  says:  —  • 

The  answer  of  J.  M.  remarks:  —  * 

In  1785,  Noah  Webster  whose  pol.  &  other  valuable  writings 
had  made  him  known  to  the  public,  in  one  of  his  publications  of 
American  policy  brought  into  view  the  same  resort  for  supplying 
the  defects  of  the  Fedl.  System,     (see  his  life  in  Longacre) 

The  proposed  tc  expected  Convention  at  Annapolis,  the  first 
of  a  general  character  that  appears  to  have  been  realized,  &  the 
state  of  the  public  mind  awakened  by  it,  had  attracted  the  partic- 
ular attention  of  Congs.  and  favored  the  idea  there  of  a  Convention 
with  fuller  powers  for  amending  the  Confederacy. 

It  does  not  appear  that  in  any  of  these  cases,  the  reformed 
system  was  to  be  otherwise  sanctioned  than  by  the  Legislative 
authy  of  the  States;  nor  whether  or  how  far  a  change  was  to  be  made 
in  the  structure  of  the  Depository  of  Federal  powers. 

The  act  of  Virga.  providing  for  the  Convention  at  Philada,  was 
succeeded  by  appointments  from  other  States  as  their  Legislatures 
were  assembled,  the  appointments  being  selections  from  the  most 
experienced  &  highest  standing  Citizens.  Rh.  I.  was  the  only  excep- 
tion to  a  compliance  with  the  recommendation  from  Annapolis, 

^  "He  wished  ...  to  see  a  general  G>nvention  take  place"  (Gilpin,  707). 

**' Resolutions  ...  by  Schuyler  in  the  Senate  ...  of  New  York,  ...  to 
recommend  to  the  States  to  call  a  general  Convention."    (Gilpin,  707.) 

'That  a  general  convention  is  suggested  by  members  of  Congress.  (Gilpin, 
708). 

^  (}uestion  is  only  as  to  the  mode.    (Gilpin,  708). 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCCI  547 

well  known  to  have  been  swayed  by  an  obdurate  adherence  to  an 
advantage  which  her  position  gave  her  of  taxing  her  neighbors  thro' 
their  consumption  of  imported  supplies,  an  advantage  which  it 
was  foreseen  would  be  taken  from  her  by  a  revisal  of  the  Articles  of 
Confederation. 

As  the  pub.  mind  had  been  ripened  for  a  salutary  Reform  of  the 
pol.  System,  in  the  interval  between  the  proposal  &  the  meeting,  of 
Comrs.  at  Annapolis,  the  interval  between  the  last  event,  and  the 
meeting  of  Deps.  at  Phila.  had  continued  to  develop  more  &  more 
the  necessity  tc  the  extent  of  a  Systematic  provision  for  the  preserva- 
tion and  Govt,  of  the  Union;  among  the  ripening  incidents  was  the 
Insurrection  of  Shays  in  Massts.  against  her  Govt;  which  was  with 
difficulty  suppressed,  notwithstanding  the  influence  on  the  insur- 
gents of  an  apprehended  interposition  of  the  Fedl.  troops. 

At  the  date  of  the  Convention,  the  aspect  &  retrospect  of  the 
pol:  condition  of  the  U.  S.  could  not  but  fill  the  pub.  mind  with  a 
gloom  which  was  relieved  only  by  a  hope  that  so  select  a  Body  would 
devise  an  adequate  remedy  for  the  existing  and  prospective  evils  so 
impressively  demanding  it 

It  was  seen  that  the  public  debt  rendered  so  sacred  by  the  cause 
in  which  it  had  been  incurred  remained  without  any  provision  for 
its  payment.  The  reiterated  and  elaborate  efforts  of  Cong,  to 
procure  from  the  States  a  more  adequate  power  to  raise  the  means 
of  payment  had  failed.  The  effect  of  the  ordinary  requisitions  of 
Congress  had  only  displayed  the  inefficiency  of  the  authy.  making 
them;  none  of  the  States  having  duly  complied  with  them,  some 
having  failed  altogether  or  nearly  so;  and  in  one  instance,  that  of  N. 
Jersey,  a  compliance  was  expressly  refused;  nor  was  more  yielded 
to  the  expostulations  of  members  of  Congs.  deputed  to  her  Legis- 
lature than  a  mere  repeal  of  the  law,  without  a  compliance,  (see 
letter  of  Grayson  to  J.  M.) 

The  want  of  authy.  in  Congs.  to  regulate  Commerce  had  pro- 
duced in  Foreign  nations  particularly  G.  B.  a  monopolizing  policy 
injurious  to  the  trade  of  the  U.  S.  and  destructive  to  their  naviga- 
tion; the  imbecility  and  anticipated  dissolution  of  the  Confederacy 
extinguishg.  all  apprehensions  of  a  Countervailing  policy  on  the  part 
of  the  U.  States. 

The  same  want  of  a  general  power  over  Commerce  led  to  an 
exercise  of  this  power  separately,  by  the  States,  wch  not  only  proved 
abortive,  but  engendered  rival,  conflicting  and  angry  regulations. 
Besides  the  vain  attempts  to  supply  their  respective  treasuries  by 
imposts,  which  turned  their  commerce  into  the  neighbouring  ports, 
and  to  co-erce  a  relaxation  of  the  British  monopoly  of  the  W.  Indn. 


548      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

navigatioh,  which  was  attemted  by  Virga.  (see  the  Journal  of  ) 
the  States  having  ports  for  foreign  commerce,  taxed  &  irritated  the 
adjoining  States,  trading  thro'  them,  as  N.  Y.  Pena.  Virga.  &  S- 
Carolina.  Some  of  the  States,  as  Connecticut,  taxed  imports  as 
from  Massts  higher  than  imports  even  from  G.  B.  of  wch  Massts. 
complained  to  Virga.  and  doubtless  to  other  States  (see  letter  of 
J.  M.)  In  sundry  instances  of  as  N.  Y.  N.  J.  Pa.  &  Maryd.  (see 
)  the  navigation  laws  treated  the  Citizens  of  other  States  as 
aliens. 

In  certain  cases  the  authy.  of  the  Confederacy  was  disregarded, 
as  in  violations  not  only  of  the  Treaty  of  peace;  but  of  Treaties  with 
France  &  Holland,  which  were  complained  of  to  Congs. 

In  other  cases  the  Fedl  authy  was  violated  by  Treaties  &  wars 
with  Indians,  as  by  Geo:  by  troops,  raised  &  kept  up.  witht.  the  con- 
sent of  Congs.  as  by  Massts  by  compacts  witht.  the  consent  of  Congs. 
as  between  Pena.  and  N.  Jersey,  and  between  Virga.  &  Maryd. 
From  the  Legisl:  Journals  of  Virga.  it  appears,  that  a  vote  to  apply 
for  a  sanction  of  Congs.  was  followed  by  a  vote  agst.  a  communica- 
tion of  the  Compact  to  Congs. 

In  the  internal  administration  of  the  States  a  violations  of  Con- 
tracts had  become  familiar  in  the  form  of  depreciated  paper  made 
a  legal  tender,  of  property  substituted  for  money,  of  Instalment 
laws,  and  of  the  occlusions  of  the  Courts  of  Justice;  although  evi- 
dent that  all  such  interferences  affected  the  rights  of  other  States, 
relatively  Creditor,  as  well  as  Citizens  Creditors  within  the  State 

Among  the  defects  which  had  be^n  severely  felt  was  that  of 
a  uniformity  in  cases  requiring  it,  as  laws  of  naturalization, 
bankruptcy,  a  Coercive  authority  opperating  on  individuals  and  a 
guaranty  of  the  internal  tranquility  of  the  States; 

As  a  natural  consequence  of  this  distracted  and  disheartening 
condition  of  the  Union,  the  Fedl.  authy  had  ceased  to  be  respected 
abroad,  and  dispositions  shewn  there,  particularly  in  G.  B.  to  take 
advantage  of  its  imbecility,  and  to  speculate  on  its  approaching 
downfall;  at  home  it  had  lost  all  confidence  &  credit.  The  unstable 
and  unjust  career  of  the  States  had  also  forfeited  the  respect  & 
confidence  essential  to  order  and  good  Govt.,  involving  a  general 
decay  of  confidence  &  credit  between  man  &  man.  It  was  found 
moreover,  that  those  least  partial  to  popular  Govt,  or  most  distrust- 
ful of  its  efficacy  were  yielding  to  anticipations  that  from  an  increase 
of  the  confusion  a  Govt,  might  result  more  congenial  with  their 
taste  or  their  opinions;  whilst  those  most  devoted  to  the  principles 
and  forms  of  Republics,  were  alarmed  for  the  cause  of  liberty  itself, 
at  stake  in  the  American  Experiment,  and  anxious  for  a  System  that 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCCI  549 

wd  avoid  the  inefficacy  of  a  mere  Confederacy  without  passing 
into  the  opposite  extreme  of  a  Consolidated  govt.  It  was  known 
that  there  were  individuals  who  had  betrayed  a  bias  towards  Mon- 
archy (see  Knox  to  G.  W.  &  him  to  Jay),  and  there  had  always  been 
some  not  unfavorable  to  a  partition  of  the  Union  into  several  Con- 
federacies (Marshall's  life);  either  from  a  better  chanc  of  figuring 
on  a  Sectional  Theatre,  or  that  the  Sections  would  require  stronger 
Govts,  or  by  their  hostile  conflicts  lead  to  a  monarchical  consoli- 
dation. The  idea  of  a  dismemberment  had  recently  made  its 
appearance  in  the  Newspapers. 

Such  were  the  defects,  the  deformities,  the  diseases  and  the  omi- 
nous prospects,  for  which  the  Convention  were  to  provide  a  remedy, 
and  which  ought  never  to  be  overlooked  in  expounding  &  appreciat- 
ing the  Constitutional  Charter  the  remedy  that  was  provided. 

As  a  sketch  the  earliest  perhaps  on  paper,  of  a  Constitutional 
Govt,  for  the  Union  (organized  into  the  regular  Departments  with 
physical  means  operating  on  individuals)  to  be  sanctioned  by  the 
people  of  the  States^  acting  in  their  original  &  sovereign  character, 
was  contained  in  a  letter  of  Apl.  8.  1787  from  J.  M.  to  Govr. 
Randolph,  a  copy  of  the  letter  is  here  inserted. 

The  feature  in  the  letter  which  vested  in  the  general  Authy  a 
negative  on  the  laws  of  the  States,  was  suggested  by  the  negative 
in  the  head  of  the  British  Empire,  which  prevented  collisions  between 
the  parts  &  the  whole,  and  between  the  parts  themselves.  It  was 
supposed  that  the  substitution,  of  an  elective  and  responsible  author- 
ity for  an  hereditary  and  irresponsible  one,  would  avoid  the  appear- 
ance even  of  a  departure  from  the  principle  of  Republicanism.  But 
altho'  the  subject  was  so  viewed  in  the  Convention,  and  the  votes  on 
it  more  than  once  equally  divided,  it  was  finally  &  justly  abandoned, 
as,  apart  from  other  objections,  it  was  not  practicable  among  so 
many  States,  increasing  in  number,  and  enacting,  each  of  them,  so 
many  laws.  Instead  of  the  proposed  negative,  the  objects  of  it  were 
left  as  finally  provided  for  in  the  Constitution. 

On  the  arrival  of  the  Virginia  Deputies  at  Philada.  it  occurred 
to  them  that  from  the  early  and  prominent  part  taken  by  that  State 
in  bringing  about  the  Convention  some  initiative  step  might  be 
expected  from  them.  The  Resolutions  introduced  by  Governor 
Randolph  were  the  result  of  a  Consolidation  on  the  subject;  with 
an  understanding  that  they  left  all  the  Deputies  entirely  open  to 
the  lights  of  discussion,  and  free  to  concur  in  any  alterations  or  modi- 
fications which  their  reflections  and  judgements  might  approve. 
The  Resolutions  as  the  Journals  shew  became  the  basis  on  which  the 
proceedings  of  the  Convention  commenced,  and  to  the  developments, 


550     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

variations  and  modifications  of  which  the  plan  of  Govt,  proposed 
by  the  Convention  may  be  traced* 

The  curiosity  I  had  felt  during  my  researches  into  the  History 
of  the  most  distinguished  Confederacies,  particularly  those  of  antiq- 
uity, and  the  deficiency  I  found  in  the  means  of  satisfying  it  more 
especially  in  what  related  to  the  process,  the  principles  —  the  rea- 
sons, &  the  anticipations,  which  prevailed  in  the  formation  of  them, 
determined  me  to  preserve  as  far  as  I  could  an  exact  account  of  what 
might  pass  in  the  Convention  whilst  executing  its  trust,  with  the 
magnitude  of  which  I  was  duly  impressed,  as  I  was  with  the  grati- 
fication promised  to  future  curiosity  by  an  authentic  exhibition  of 
the  objects,  the  opinions  &  the  reasonings  from  which  the  new  Sys- 
tem of  Govt,  was  to  receive  its  peculiar  structure  tc  organization. 
Nor  was  I  unaware  of  the  value  of  such  a  contribution  to  the  fund 
of  materials  for  the  History  of  a  Constitution  on  which  would  be 
staked  the  happiness  of  a  young  people  great  even  in  its  infancy, 
and  possibly  the  cause  of  Liberty  throught  the  world. 

In  pursuance  of  the  task  I  had  assumed  I  chose  a  seat  in  front 
of  the  presiding  member  with  the  other  members,  on  my  right  & 
left  hand.  In  this  favorable  position  for  hearing  all  that  passed,  I 
noted  in  terms  legible  &  in  abreviations  tc  marks  intelligible  to 
myself  what  was  read  from  the  Chair  or  spoken  by  the  members;  and 
losing  not  a  moment  unnecessarily  between  the  adjournment  & 
reassembling  of  the  Convention  I  was  enabled  to  write  out  my  daily 
notes  during  the  seesion  or  within  a  few  finishing  days  after  its 
close  in  the  extent  and  form  preserved  in  my  own  hand  on  my  files.^ 

In  the  labor  and  correctness  of  this  I  was  not  a  little  aided  by 
practice,  and  by  a  familiarity  with  the  style  and  the  train  of  obser- 
vation and  reasoning  which  characterized  the  principal  speakers. 
It  happened,  also,  that  I  was  not  absent  a  single  day,  nor  more  than 
a  casual  fraction  of  an  hour  in  any  day,  so  that  I  could  not  have  lost 
a  single  speech,  unless  a  very  short  one. 

It  may  be  proper  to  remark,  that,  with  a  very  few  exceptions, 
the  speeches  were  neither  furnished,  nor  revised,  nor  sanctioned, 
by  the  speakers,  but  written  out  from  my  notes,  aided  by  the  fresh- 
ness of  my  recollections.  A  further  remark  may  be  proper,  that 
views  of  the  subject  might  occasionally  be  presented,  in  the  speeches 
and  proceedings,  with  a  latent  reference  to  a  compromise  on  some 

^  "Mr.  Madiion  told  Governor  Edward  Coles  that  the  labor  of  writing  out  the 
dehatet,  added  to  the  confinement  to  which  his  attendance  in  Convention  subjected 
him,  almost  killed  him;  but  that  having  undertaken  the  task,  he  was  determined  to 
accomplish  it."    H.  B.  Grigsby,  History  of  Firgtnia  Frdiral  Convention  of  i^SS,  I,  95 


APPENDIX  A,   CCCCI  55 1 

middle  ground,  by  mutual  concessions.  The  exceptions  alluded  to 
were,  —  first,  the  sketch  furnished  by  Mr.  Randolph  of  his  speech 
on  the  introduction  of  his  propositions,  on  the  twenty-ninth  day  of 
May;  secondly,  the  speech  of  Mr.  Hamilton,  who  happened  to  call 
on  me  when  putting  the  last  hand  to  it,  and  who  acknowledged  its 
fidelity,  without  suggesting  more  than  a  very  few  verbal  alterations 
which  were  made;  thirdly,  the  speech  of  Gouvemeur  Morris  on  the 
second  day  of  May  [July],  which  was  communicated  to  him  on  a  like 
occasion,  and  who  acquiesced  in  it  without  even  a  verbal  change. 
The  correctness  of  his  language  and  the  distinctness  of  his  enuncia- 
tion were  particularly  favorable  to  a  reporter.  The  speeches  of 
Doctor  Franklin,  excepting  a  few  brief  ones,  were  copied  from  the 
written  ones  read  to  the  Convention  by  his  colleague,  Mr.  Wilson, 
it  being  inconvenient  to  the  Doctor  to  remain  long  on  his  feet. 

Of  the  ability  and  intelligence  of  those  who  composed  the  Con- 
vention the  debates  and  proceedings  may  be  a  test;  as  the  character 
of  the  work  which  was  the  offspring  of  their  deliberations  must  be 
tested  by  the  experience  of  the  future,  added  to  that  of  nearly  half  a 
century  which  has  passed. 

But  whatever  may  be  the  judgment  pronounced  on  the  compe- 
tency of  the  architects  of  the  Constitution,  or  whatever  may  be  the 
destiny  of  the  edifice  prepared  by  them,  I  feel  it  a  duty  to  express 
my  profound  and  solemn  conviction,  derived  from  my  intimate 
opportunity  of  observing  and  appreciating  the  views  of  the  Conven- 
tion, collectively  and  individually,  that  there  never  was  an  assembly 
of  men,  charged  with  a  great  and  arduous  trust,  who  were  more  pure 
in  their  motives,  or  more  exclusively  or  anxiously  devoted  to  the 
object  committed  to  them,  than  were  the  members  of  the  Federal 
Convention  of  1787,  to  the  object  of  devising  and  proposing  a 
constitutional  system  which  should  best  supply  the  defects  of  that 
which  it  was  to  replace,  and  best  secure  the  permanent  liberty  and 
happiness  of  their  country. 


SSZ  RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

SUPPLEMENT 

CCCCII.   William  Samuel  Johnson:  Diary,  1787.* 

AD  1787    Memoranda    New  York,  &c. 

June    I  St.    Rain  &  Fair    Came  to  Philadelphia  at  7  O'clock,  & 

Lodged  at  Dickenson's.     .  •  . 
2d.    Made  Visits.    Took  a  Seat  in  Convention.    ...    In 
eveng.  took  Lodgs.  at  City  Tavern.    .  .  . 


4th. 

Cold.    At  Convention.     .  .  . 

5th. 

Fair.    Cold.    Rain.     In  Convention.    Not  well.     .  .  . 

6th. 

Very  Rainy.    In  Conventn.    Dined  Dr.  Franklins.    .  .  . 

7th. 

Showry.    In  Conventn.     Dined  Mr.  Oymer's.    .  .  . 

8th. 

Fair.    In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

9th. 

Warm.    At  Conven.     .  .  . 

nth. 

Hot.    At  Conventn.     Dind.  Mr.  Morris's.    .  •  . 

1 2th. 

Do.      In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

13th. 

Do.      In  Conventn.     Dind.  IngersoUs.    •  .  • 

14th. 

Do.      In  Conventn.  but  adj.     .  •  . 

ISth. 

Do.      In  Conventn.  Do.     .  .  . 

i6th. 

Cool.     In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

1 8th. 

Hot.    In  Conventn.  Hamiltn.     .  .  . 

19th. 

Do.      In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

20th. 

Do.      In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

2 1  St. 

Do.     In        Do.       Argt.     .  .  . 

22d. 

Cool.  In       Do.        .  .  . 

23d. 

Do.     In       Do.        .  .  . 

25  th. 

Cool.    In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

26th. 

Hot.     In  Conventn.     .  .  • 

27th. 

Do.       In  Conventn.     .  .  • 

28th. 

Cool.    In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

29th. 

Do.       In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

30th. 

Hot.     In  Convention.     .  .  . 

July  2d. 

Hot.    In  Conventn.     Commee.     .  .  . 

3d. 

Hot.    No.  Conventn.     .  .  . 

4th. 

Do.               Do.         Independence.    Heard    Campbells 

Oration.     .  .  . 

'  After  the  manuscript  of  this  work  was  in  the  printers'  hands,  the  editor  was 
privileged,  through  the  courtesy  of  Mrs.  S.  E.  Johnson  Hudson  of  Stratford,  Con- 
necticut, to  examine  the  diary  of  her  great-grandfather,  William  Samuel  Johnson. 
Tile  "memoranda"  amount  to  little  more  than  a  line  each  day.  Hiough  it  waa 
too  late  to  incorporate  them  in  the  text,  the  extracts  here  given  seemed  to  be  of 
sufficient  importance  to  warrant  their  insertion  as  a  supplement  to  this  appendix. 


APPENDIX  A, 

July  sth. 

Hot 

In  Coaventn.     .  . 

6th. 

Do. 

In  Convention.     I 

7th. 

Do. 

In  Convcntn.     .  . 

9th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  . 

loth. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  . 

nth. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  . 

1 2th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  . 

13th. 

Cool. 

In  Conventn.     .  . 

14th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     . 

i6th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  , 

17th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  , 

I  Sth. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  . 

19th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  , 

20th. 

Set  out  at  8  O'clock  in  tl 

ccccii  SS3 


Dined  G.  Washington. 


man  &c.     .  .  . 
Augt.  6th.     Rain.     .  .  .     Did  not  arrive  till  7.  in  Eveng.     .  .  . 
In  eveng.  came  to  Mr.  Lewis's  met   Coin.  Johnston 
&c.     .  .  . 


7th. 

Hot. 

In  Convention.     .  .  . 

Sth. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

9th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

loth. 

Do. 

Rain.     In  Do.     .  .  . 

nth. 

Cool. 

In  Conventn.     Dind.  Pinckneys. 

13th. 

Hot. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

14th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

iSth. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

1 6th. 

Cool. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

17th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

I  Sth. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

20th. 

Rain. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

2 1  St. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

22d. 

Fine. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  .     Fitchs  Stea 

23  d. 

Warm 

i.     In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

24th. 

Hot. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

2Sth. 

Do. 

In  Do.     Dined  with  Gerry,     .  .  . 

27th. 

Cold. 

Rain.     In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

2Sth. 

Rain. 

In  Convention.     .  .  . 

29th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

30th. 

Do. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

3 1  St. 

Cool. 

In  Conventn.     .  .  . 

Septemr.  ist.     Rain.     In  Convention. 

3d.     Cool.    In  Conventn.     . 

4th.    Do.       In  Conventn.     . 


554  RECORDS   OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


Septemr.  5th. 

Cool.    In  Conventn.    •  .  . 

6th. 

Do.       In  Conventn.    •  .  . 

7th. 

Do.       In  Conventn.    .  .  . 

8th. 

Do.       In    Conventn.    Dind.      Mifflins.      Eveng. 

Comee.    .  .  . 

lotha 

Warm.    In  Convention,    ft  Commee.    .  .  . 

nth. 

Very  hot.         Do.                     Do.          .  .  . 

1 2th. 

Do.                  Do.                    Do.        Dind.     Jack- 

sons     .  •  •  . 

13th. 

Rain.              Do.                     Do.    .  .  . 

14th. 

Do.                Do.                     Do 

15th. 

Qoudy.          Do.                      Do.    .  .  . 

17th. 

Cold.    In  Convention.    Ended.     .  .  . 

l8th. 

Set  out  at  10  O'clock  in  the  Stage.    Gov.  Living- 

ston, Few,  Baldwin,  Jackson  &c  in  Company. 

CCCCIII.   John  Dickinson:  Extract  of  letter.^ 

In  the  Convention  at  Philadelphia  in  1787,*  I  proposed  the  estab- 
lishment of  that  Branch,}  with  an  equal  Representation  therein  of 
every  State  —  assenting,  in  Consideration  of  such  a  provision  to 
the  Establishment  of  the  other  Branch,  on  another  Principle. 

Letter  of  my  Father. 

S.  N.  Dickinson. 

*  For  the  fbmutioii  of  the  Federal  Constitutioii. 
t  The  Senate. 

^  Thtt  scrap  of  MS.  in  the  handwriting  of  John  Dickinson,  with  footnotes  in 
the  handwriting  of  his  daughter,  Sarah  Norris  Dickinson,  is  in  the  possession  of 
Mr.  William  Redwood  Wright  g£  Philadelphia.  It  was  furnished  to  the  editor 
through  the  kindness  of  Mr.  Albert  Cook  Myers. 


While  this  volttme  u  in  press,  the  ninth  and  latt  volume  of  Gaillard  Hunt's 
Writings  of  Jamus  Madiswn  has  appeared  with  three  items  which  the  editor  would 
gladly  have  incorporated  in  the  present  work.  The  omission  is  of  little  real  conse- 
quence, however,  as  the  substance  of  all  of  these  items  is  embodied  in  other  letten 
of  Madison  included  in  this  appendix.  The  significant  portion  of  one  item,  a  mat- 
ter of  punctuation,  has  been  iikserted  in  a  foot-note  to  CCCLXXII. 


APPENDIX  B 

THE  DELEGATES  TO  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION, 
THEIR  CREDENTIALS,  AND  ATTENDANCE. 


UST  OF   DELEGATES.* 


New  Hampshire 


Massachusetts 


Rhode  Island 
Connecticut 


New  York 


New  Jersey 


Pennsylvania 


John  Langdon 
(John  Pickering) 
Nicholas  Gilman 
(Benjamin  West)** 

(Francis  Dana) 
Elbridge  Gcny 
Nathaniel  Gorham 
Rufus  King 
Caleb  Strong 

No  appointment 

William  Samuel  Johnson 
Roger  Sherman 
Oliver  Ellsworth 

[Erastus  Wolcott  was  elected   but 
declined  to  serve.] 

Robert  Yates 
Alexander  Hamilton 
John  Lansing,  Junior 

David  Brearley 
William  Churchill  Houston 
William  Paterson 
(John  Neilson) 
William  Livingston 
(Abraham  Qark) 
Jonathan  Dayton 

Thomas  Mifflin 
Robert  Morris 


^  Those  whose  names  are  in  parentheses  did  not  attend.  An  alphabetical  list 
of  the  delegates  with  the  dates  of  attendance,  etc.,  will  be  found  at  the  end  of  this 
appendix. 

^  Philadelphia  newspapers  of  May  19,  1787,  in  thdr  lists  of  delegates  included 
the  names  of  John  Sparhawk  and  Pierce  Long  from  New  Hampshire. 

SS7 


558 


RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 


Pennsylvania 


Delaware 


Maryland 


Virginia 


George  Qymer 
Jared  IngenoU 
Thomas  Fitzsimons 
James  Wilson 
Gouvemeur  Morris 
Benjamin  Franklin 

George  Read 
Gunning  Bedford,  Junior 
John  Dickinson 
Richard  Bassett 
Jacob  Broom 

James  McHenry 
Daniel  of  St.  Thomas  Jenifer 
Daniel  Carroll 
John  Francis  Mercer 
Luther  Martin 

[Charles  Carroll  of  CarroUton,  Ga- 
briel Duvally  Robert  Hanson  Harri- 
son, Thomas  Sim  Lee,  and  Thomas 
Stone  were  elected  but  declined  to 
serve.] 

Geoige  Washington 

Edmund  Randolph 

John  Blair 

James  Madison,  Junior 

Geoige  Mason 

George  Wythe 

James  McQurg 

[Patrick  Henry ,^  Richard  Henry  Lee, 

and  Thomas  Nelson  were  elected  but 

declined  to  serve.] 


'  "Tliere  was  a  pauage  at  armt  between  the  Rev.  John  Blair  Smith,  prerident  of 
Hampden-^ydney  College  in  Prince  Edward  county,  and  Patrick  Henry,  who  repre- 
sented that  county  in  the  Convention.  Henry  had  inveighed  with  great  aeverity 
against  the  Constitution,  and  was  responded  to  by  Dr.  Smith,  who  pressed  the  question 
upon  Henry,  why  he  had  not  taken  his  seat  in  the  Convention  and  lent  his  aid  in  making 
a  good  Constitution,  instead  of  staying  at  home  and  abusing  the  work  of  his  patriotic 
compeers?  Henry,  with  that  magical  power  of  acting  in  which  he  excelled  all  his 
contemporaries,  and  which  before  a  popular  assembly  was  irresntible,  replied:  'I 
smelt  a  Rat.'  *'  (H.  B.  Grigsby,  History  of  tlu  Firtinia  FhUmI  Canvniiion  of  178S,  1, 3s.) 


APt>ENDIX  B  559 

North  Carolina  Alexander  Martin 

William  Richardson  Davie 

Richard  Dobbs  Spaight 

William  Blount 

Hugh  Williamson 

[Richard  Caswell  and   Willie  Jones 

were  elected  but  declined  to  serve.] 

SoxTTH  Carolina  John  Rutledge 

Charles  Pinckney 

Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney 

Pierce  Butler 

(Henry  Laurens) 

Georgia  William  Few 

Abraham  Baldwin 
William  Pierce 
(George  Walton) 
William  Houstoun 
(Nathaniel  Pendleton) 


CREDENTIALS 

[Arranged  according  to  the  date  of  legislative  action,  —  Virginia, 
New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  North  Carolina,  New  Hampshire, 
Delaware,  Georgia,  New  York,  South  Carouna,  Massachu- 
setts, Connecticut,  Maryland.] 

•,.    .  .  VIRGINIA 

Virgmia  , 

General  Assembly  begun  and  held  at  the  Public  Buildings 

in  the  City  of  Richmond  on  Monday  the  sixteenth  day  of 

October  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  one  thousand  seven  hundred 

and  Eighty  six 

An  Act  for  appointing  Deputies  from  this  Commonwealth  to 

a  Convention  proposed  to  be  held  in  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in 

May  next  for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  federal  Constitution. 

Whereas  the  Commissioners  who  assembled  at  Annapolis  on 
the  fourteenth  day  of  September  last  for  the  purpose  of  devising  and 
reporting  the  means  of  enabling  Congress  to  provide  effectually 
for  the  Commercial  Interests  of  the  United  States  have  represented 
the  necessity  of  extending  the  revision  of  the  foederal  System  to  all 
it's  defects  and  have  recommended  that  Deputies  for  that  purpose 
be  appointed  by  the  several  Legislatures  to  meet  in  Convention  in 


560     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  City  of  Philadelphia  on  the  second  day  of  May  next  a  provision 
which  was  preferable  to  a  discussion  of  the  subject  in  Congress  where 
it  might  be  too  much  interrupted  by  the  ordinary  business  before 
them  and  where  it  would  besides  be  deprived  of  the  valuable  Coun- 
sels of  sundry  Individuals  who  are  disqualified  by  the  Constitution 
or  Laws  of  particular  States  or  restrained  by  peculiar  circumstances 
from  a  Seat  in  that  Assembly:  And  Whereas  the  General  Assembly 
of  this  Commonwealth  taking  into  view  the  actual  situation  of  the 
Confederacy  as  well  as  reflecting  on  the  alarming  representations 
made  from  time  to  time  by  the  United  States  in  Congress  partic- 
ularly in  their  Act  of  the  fifteenth  day  of  February  last  can  no  longer 
doubt  that  the  Crisis  is  arrived  at  which  the  good  People  of  America 
are  to  decide  the  solemn  question  whether  they  will  by  wise  and  mag- 
nanimous Efforts  reap  the  just  fruits  of  that  Independence  which 
they  have  so  gloriously  acquired  and  of  that  Union  which  they  have 
cemented  with  so  much  of  their  common  Blood,  or  whether  by 
giving  way  to  unmanly  Jealousies  and  Prejudices  or  to  partial  and 
transitory  Interests  they  will  renounce  the  auspicious  blessings  pre- 
pared for  them  by  the  Revolution,  and  furnish  to  its  Enemies  an 
eventual  Triumph  over  those  by  whose  virtue  and  valor  it  has  been 
accomplished:  And  Whereas  the  same  noble  and  extended  policy 
and  the  same  fraternal  and  affectionate  Sentiments  which  originally 
determined  the  Citizens  of  this  Commonwealth  to  unite  with  their 
Bretheren  of  the  other  States  in  establishing  a  Fcederal  Government 
cannot  but  be  Felt  with  equal  force  now  as  motives  to  lay  aside  every 
inferior  consideration  and  to  concur  in  such  farther  concessions  and 
Provisions  as  may  be  necessary  to  secure  the  great  Objects  for  which 
that  Government  was  instituted  and  to  render  the  United  States 
as  happy  in  peace  as  they  have  been  glorious  in  War    Be  it  there- 
fore ENACTED  by  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
Virginia  that  seven  Commissioners  be  appointed  by  joint  Ballot 
of  both  Houses  of  Assembly  who  or  any  three  of  them  are  hereby 
authorized  as  Deputies  from  this  Commonwealth  to  meet  such  Dep- 
uties as  may  be  appointed  and  authorized  by  other  States  to  assemble 
in  Convention  at  Philadelphia  as  above  recommended  and  to  join 
with  them  in  devising  and  discussing  all  such  Alterations  and  farther 
Provisions  as  may  be  necessary  to  render  the  Fcederal  Constitution 
adequate  to  the  Exigencies  of  the  Union  and  in  reporting  such  an 
Act  for  that  purpose  to  the  United  States  in  Congress  as  when  agreed 
to  by  them  and  duly  confirmed  by  the  several  States  will  effectually 
provide  for  the  same.    And  be  it  further  enacted  that  in  case 
of  the  death  of  any  of  the  said  Deputies  or  of  their  declining  their 
appointments  the  Executive  are  hereby  authorized  to  supply  such 


APPENDIX  B  561 

Vacancies.  And  the  Governor  is  requested  to  transmit  forthwith 
a  Copy  of  this  Act  to  the  United  States  in  Congress  and  to  the 
Executives  of  each  of  the  States  in  the  Union. 

John  Jones  Speaker  of  the  Senate 
Signed  Joseph  Prentis,  Speaker  of   the  House  of 

Delegates. 
A  true  Copy  from  the  Inrollment 

John  Becklet  Qk  House  Dels. 

In  the  House  of  Delegates 

Monday  the  4th  of  December  1786. 

The  House  according  to  the  Order  of  the  Day  proceeded  by 
joint  Ballot  with  the  Senate  to  the  appointment  of  Seven  Deputies 
from  this  Commonwealth  to  a  Convention  proposed  to  be  held  in 
the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  May  next  for  the  purpose  of  revising 
the  Foederal  Constitution,  and  the  Members  having  prepared  Tickets 
with  the  names  of  the  Persons  to  be  appointed,  and  deposited  the 
same  in  the  Ballot-boxes,  Mr.  Corbin,  Mr.  Matthews,  Mr.  David 
Stuart,  Mr.  George  Nicholas,  Mr.  Richard  Lee,  Mr.  Wills,  Mr. 
Thomas  Smith,  Mr.  Goodall  and  Mr.  Turberville  were  nominated 
a  Committee  to  meet  a  Committee  from  the  Senate  in  the  Confer- 
ence-Chamber and  jointly  with  them  to  examine  the  Ballot-boxes 
and  report  to  the  House  on  whom  the  Majority  of  Votes  should 
fall.  The  Committee  then  withdrew  and  after  some  time  returned 
into  the  House  and  reported  that  the  Committee  had,  according  to 
order,  met  a  Committee  from  the  Senate  in  the  Conference-Chamber, 
and  jointly  with  them  examined  the  Ballot-boxes  and  found  a  major- 
ity of  Votes  in  favor  of  George  Washington,  Patrick  Henry,  Edmund 
Randolph,  John  Blair,  James  Madison,  George  Mason  and  George 
Wythe  Esquires. 

Extract  from  the  Journal, 

John  Beckley  Qk  House  Dels. 

Attest  John  Beckley 
Clk.  H.  Dels. 

In  the  House  of  Senators 

Monday  the  4th  of  December  1786. 
The  Senate  according  to  the  Order  of  the  Day  proceeded  by 
joint  ballot  with  the  House  of  Delegates  to  the  Appointment  of  Seven 
Deputies  from  this  Commonwealth  to  a  Convention  proposed  to 
be  held  in  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  May  next  for  the  purpose  of 
revising  the  Fcederal  Constitution,  and  the  Members  having  prepared 
Hckets  with  the  names  of  the  Persons  to  be  appointed,  and  deposited 


5^2     RECORDS  OP  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

the  same  in  the  Ballot-boxes,  Mr.  Anderson,  Mr.  Nelson  and  Mr 
Lee  were  nominated  a  Committee  to  meet  a  Committee  from  the 
House  of  Delegates  in  the  C6nference*Chamber  and  joinly  with 
them  to  examine  the  Ballot-boxes  and  report  to  the  House  on  whom 
the  Majority  of  Votes  should  fall.  The  Committee  then  withdrew 
and  after  some  time  returned  into,  the  House  and  reported  that  the 
Committee  had,  according  to  order,  met  a  Committee  from  the  House 
of  Delegates  in  the  Conference-Chamber,  and  jointly  with  them 
examined  the  Ballot-boxes  and  found  a  Majority  of  Votes  in  favor 
of  George  Washington,  Patrick  Henry,  Exlmund  Randolph,  John 
Blair,  James  Madison  George  Mason  and  George  Wythe  Esquires. 

Extract  from  the  Journal 

John  Beckley  Clk.  H.  Ds. 
Attest, 

H.  Brook  Qk  S. 

Virginia  to  wrr 

I  do  Certify  and  make  known,  to  all  whom  it 
(Seal)  may  Concern,  that  John  Beckley  Esquire,  is  Clerk 
of  the  House  of  Delegates  for  this  Commonwealth,  and  the  proper 
Officer  for  attesting  the  proceedings  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
said  Commonwealth,  And  that  full  Faith  and  Credit  ought  to  be 
given  to  all  things  attested  by  the  said  John  Beckley  Esquire,  by 
Virtue  of  his  Office  aforesaid. 

Given  under  my  hand  as  Governor  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
Virginia  and  under  the  Seal  thereof,  at  Richmond  this  fourth 
day  of  May,  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  Eighty  seven. 

Edm:  Randolph. 
Virginia  to  wit 

(Seal)  I  do  hereby  Certify,  that  Patrick  Henry,  Es- 

quire, one  of  the  seven  Commissioners  appointed  by  joint  ballot  of 
both  Houses  of  Assembly  of  the  Cbmmonwealth  of  Virginia,  author- 
ized as  a  Deputy  therefrom,  to  meet  such  Deputies  as  might  be 
appointed  and  authorized  by  other  States  to  assemble  in  Philadel- 
phia and  to  join  with  them  in  devising  and  discussing  all  such  Alter- 
ations and  further  provisions,  as  might  be  necessary  to  render  the 
Foederal  Constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  the  Union;  and 
in  reporting  such  an  Act  for  that  purpose  to  the  United  States  in 
Congress,  as  when  agreed  to  by  them  and  duly  confirmed  by  the 
several  States,  might  effectually  provide  for  the  same,  did  decline 
his  appointment  aforesaid;  and  thereupon  in  pursuance  of  an  Act 
of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  said  Cbmmonwealth  intituled  '^An 
Act  for  appointing  Deputies  from  this  Commonwealth  to  a  Conven- 


APPENDIX  B  563 

tion  proposed  to  be  held  in  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  May  next, 
for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  Foederal  Constitution"  I  do  hereby 
with  the  advice  of  the  Council  of  State,  supply  the  said  Vacancy  by 
nominating  James  McQurg,  Esquire,  a  Deputy  for  the  Purposes 
aforesaid. 

Given  under  my  Hand  as  Governor  of  the  said  Commonwealth 
and  under  the  Seal  thereof  this  second  day  of  May  in  the  Year 
of  our  Lord  One  thousand  seven  hundred  and  eighty  seven. 

Edm:  Randolph 

NEW  JERSEY 

The  State  of  New  Jersey. 

(Seal)  To    the    Honorable    David    Brearly»    William 

Churchill  Houston,  William  Patterson  and  John  Neilson  Esquires. 
Greeting. 

The  Council  and  Assembly  reposing  especial  trust  and  confidence 
in  your  integrity,  prudence  and  ability,  have  at  a  joint  meeting 
appointed  you  the  said  David  Brearley,  William  Churchill  Hous- 
ton, William  Patterson  and  John  Neilson  Esquires,  or  any  three  of 
you.  Commissioners  to  meet  such  Cbmmissioners,  as  have  been  or 
may  be  appointed  by  the  other  States  in  the  Union,  at  the  City  of 
Philadelphia  in  the  Commonwealth  of  Pensylvania,  on  the  second 
Monday  in  May  next  for  the  purpose  of  taking  into  Consideration 
the  state  of  the  Union,  as  to  trade  and  other  important  objects,  and 
of  devising  such  other  Provisions  as  shall  appear  to  be  necessary 
to  render  the  Constitution  of  the  Federal  Government  adequate 
to  the  exigencies  thereof. 

In  testimony  whereof  the  Great  Seal  of  the  State  is  hereunto 
affixed.  Witness  William  Livingston  Esquire,  Governor, 
Captain  General  and  Commander  in  Chief  in  and  over  the 
State  of  New  Jersey  and  Territories  thereunto  belonging  Chan- 
cellor and  Ordinary  in  the  same,  at  Trenton  the  Twenty  third 
day  of  November  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  One  thousand  seven 
hundred  and  Eighty  six  and  of  our  Sovereignty  and  Inde- 
pendence the  Eleventh.  ««*  t 
*^  Wil:  Livingston. 

By  His  Excellency's  Command 

Bowes  Reed  Secy. 

The  State  of  New  Jersey. 

(Seal)  To  His  Excellency  William  Livingston  and  the 

Honorable  Abraham  Clark  Esquires  Greeting. 
The  Council  and  Assembly  reposing  especial  trust  and  Confi- 
dence in  your  integrity,  prudence  and  ability  have  at  a  joint  Meeting 


564     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

appointed  You  the  said  William  Livingston  and  Abraham  Clark 
Esquires,  in  conjunction  with  the  Honorable  David  Brearley,  Wil- 
liam Churchill  Houston  Be  William  Patterson  Esquires,  or  any  three 
of  you.  Commissioners  to  meet  such  Commissioners  as  have  been 
appointed  by  the  other  States  in  the  Union  at  the  City  of  Philadelphia 
in  the  Commonwealth  of  Pensylvania  on  the  second  Monday  of 
this  present  month  for  the  purpose  of  taking  into  consideration  the 
state  of  the  Union  as  to  trade  and  other  important  Objects,  and  of 
devising  such  other  Provisions  as  shall  appear  to  be  necessary  to 
render  the  Constitution  of  the  federal  Government  adequate  to  the 
exigencies  thereof. 

In  Testimony  whereof  the  Great  Seal  of  the  State  is  hereunto 
affixed.  Witness  William  Livingston  Esquire,  Governor, 
Captain  General  and  Commander  in  Chief  in  and  over  the 
State  of  New  Jersey  and  Territories  thereunto  belonging 
Chancellor  and  Ordinary  in  the  same  at  Burlington  the  Eigh* 
teenth  day  of  May  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  One  thousand 
seven  hundred  and  Eighty  seven  and  of  our  Sovereignty  and 
Independence  the  Eleventh. 

Wil:  Livingston 
By  His  Excellency's  Command 
Bowes  Reed  Secy. 

The  State  of  New  Jersey. 

To  the  Honorable  Jonathan  Dayton  Esquire 
The  Council  and  Assembly  reposing  especial  trust  and  confidence 
in  your  integrity,  prudence  and  ability  have  at  a  joint  Meeting 
appointed  You  the  said  Jonathan  Dayton  Esquire,  in  conjunction 
with  His  Excellency  William  Livingston,  the  Honorable  David 
Brearley,  William  Churchill  Houston,  William  Patterson  and  Abra- 
ham Clark  Esquires,  or  any  three  of  you.  Commissioners  to  meet 
such  Commissioners  as  have  been  appointed  by  the  other  States  in 
the  Union  at  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  the  Commonwealth  of  Pen- 
sylvania, for  the  purposes  of  taking  into  consideration  the  state  of 
the  Union  as  to  trade  and  other  important  objects,  and  of  devising 
such  other  Provision  as  shall  appear  to  be  necessary  to  render  the 
Constitution  of  the  federal  Government  adequate  to  the  exigencies 
thereof. 

In  Testimony  whereof  the  Great  Seal  of  the  State  is  hereunto 
affixed: — Witness  Robert  Lettis  Hooper  Esquire,  Vice-Presi- 
dent, Captain  General  and  Commander  in  Chief  in  and  over 
the  State  of  New  Jersey  and  Territories  thereunto  belonging, 
Chancellor  and  Ordinary  in  the  same  at  Burlington  the  fifth 


APPENDIX   B  565 

day  of  June  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  One  thousand  seven  hun- 
dred and  Eighty  seven  and  of  our  Sovereignty  and  Inde- 
pendence the  Eleventh.  ^         t    tt 
^                                                             RoBT  L.  Hooper. 

By  his  Honor's  Command 

Bowes  Reed  Secy. 


^       ,      .  PENNSYLVANIA 

Pensylvania 

An  Act  appointing  Deputies  to  the  Convention  intended  to  be 
held  in  the  City  of  Philadelphia  for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  foederal 
Constitution. 

Section  ist  Whereas  the  General  Assembly  of  this  Common- 
wealth taking  into  their  serious  Consideration  the  Representations 
heretofore  made  to  the  Legislatures  of  the  several  States  in  the 
Union  by  the  United  States  in  Cbngress  Assembled,  and  also  weigh- 
ing the  difficulties  under  which  the  Confederated  States  now  labour, 
are  fully  convinced  of  the  necessity  of  revising  the  federal  Constitu- 
tion for  the  purpose  of  making  such  Alterations  and  amendments  as 
the  exigencies  of  our  Public  Affairs  require.  And  Whereas  the  Legis- 
lature of  the  State  of  Virginia  have  already  passed  an  Act  of  that 
Commonwealth  empowering  certain  Commissioners  to  meet  at  the 
City  of  Philadelphia  in  May  next,  a  Convention  of  Commissioners 
or  Deputies  from  the  different  States;  And  the  Legislature  of  this 
State  are  fully  sensible  of  the  important  advantages  which  may  be 
derived  to  the  United  States,  and  every  of  them  from  co-operating 
with  the  Commonwealth  of  Virginia,  and  the  other  States  of  the 
Confederation  in  the  said  Design. 

Section  2nd  Be  it  enacted,  and  it  is  hereby  enacted  by  the  Rep- 
resentatives of  the  Freemen  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Pensylvia  in 
General  Assembly  met,  and  by  the  Authority  of  the  same.  That 
Thomas  Mifflin,  Robert  Morris,  George  Clymer,  Jared  Ingersoll, 
Thomas  Fitzsimmons,  James  Wilson  and  Govemeur  Morris  Esquires, 
are  hereby  appointed  Deputies  from  this  State  to  meet  in  the  Con- 
vention of  the  Deputies  of  the  respective  States  of  North  America 
to  be  held  at  the  City  of  Philadelphia  on  the  second  day  of  the  Month 
of  May  next;  And  the  said  Thomas  Mifflin,  Robert  Morris,  George 
Qymer,  Jared  Ingersoll,  Thomas  Fitzsimmons,  James  Wilson  and 
Govemeur  Morris  Esquires,  or  any  four  of  them,  are  hereby  consti- 
tuted and  appointed  Deputies  from  this  State,  with  Powers  to  meet 
such  Deputies  as  may  be  appointed  and  authorized  by  the  other 
States,  to  assemble  in  the  said  Convention  at  the  City  aforesaid,  and 
to  join  with  them  in  devising,  deliberating  on,  and  discussing,  all 
such  alterations  and  further  Provisions,  as  may  be  necessary  to 


566     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

render  the  foederal  Constitution  fully  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of 
the  Union,  and  in  reporting  such  Act  or  Acts  for  that  purpose  to 
the  United  States  in  Congress  Assembled,  as  when  agreed  to  by  them 
and  duly  confirmed  by  the  several  States,  will  effectually  provide 
for  the  same. 

Section  3d  And  be  it  further  enacted  by  the  Authority  afore- 
said, That  in  case  any  of  the  sd  Deputies  hereby  nominated,  shall 
happen  to  die,  or  to  resign  his  or  their  said  Appointment  or  Appoint- 
ments, the  Supreme  Executive  Council  shall  be  and  hereby  are  em- 
powered and  required,  to  nominate  and  appoint  other  Person  or 
Persons  in  lieu  of  him  or  them  so  deceased,  or  who  has  or  have  so 
resigned,  which  Person  or  Persons,  from  and  after  such  Nomination 
and  Appointment,  shall  be  and  hereby  are  declared  to  be  vested 
with  the  same  Powers  respectively,  as  any  of  the  Deputies  Nomi- 
nated and  Appointed  by  this  Act,  is  vested  with  by  the  same: 
Provided  Always,  that  the  Cbuncil  are  not  hereby  authorised,  nor 
shall  they  make  any  such  Nomination  or  Appointment,  except  in 
Vacation  and  during  the  Recess  of  the  General  Assembly  of  this 
State. 

Signed  by  Order  of  the  House 

Seal  of  the  Laws  1  Thomas  Miffun  Speaker 

of  Pensylvania     J 
Enacted  into  a  Law  at  Philadelphia  on  Saturday  December 
the  thirtieth  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  one  thousand  seven  hundred 
and  Eighty  six. 

Peter  Zachart  Llotb 
Clerk  of  the  General  Assembly. 
I  Mathew  Irwin  Esquire  Master  of  the  Rolls  for  the  State  of 
Pensylvania  Do  Certify  the  Preceding  Writing  to  be  a  true  Copy 
(or  Exemplification)  of  a  certain  Act  of  Assembly  lodged  in  my 
Office. 

In  Witness  whereof  I  have  hereunto  set  my  Hand 
(Seal)         and  Seal  of  Office  the  15  May  A.  D.  1787. 

Mathw.  Irwine 

M.  R. 

(Seal)  A  Supplement  to  the  Act  entitled  ''An  Act 

appointing  Deputies  to  the  Convention  intended  to  be  held  in  the 
City  of  Philadelphia  for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  Federal  Cbn- 
stitution. 

Section  ist  Whereas  by  the  Act  to  which  this  Act  is  a  Supplement, 
certain  Persons  were  appointed  as  Deputies  from  this  State  to  sit 
in  the  said  Convention:  And  Whereas  it  is  the  desire  of  the  Gen- 


{ 


APPENDIX   B  567 

eral  Assembly  that  His  Ezcellenqr  Benjamin  Franklin  Esquire,  Presi- 
dent of  this  State  should  also  sit  in  the  said  Cbnvention  as  a 
Deputy  from  this  State  —  therefore 

Section  2d  Be  it  enacted  and  it  is  hereby  enacted  by  the  Represen- 
tatives of  the  Freemen  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Pensylvania,  in 
General  Assembly  met,  and  by  the  Authority  of  the  same,  that  His 
Excellency  Benjamin  Franklin  Esquire,  be,  and  he  is  hereby, 
appointed  and  authorised  to  sit  in  the  said  Convention  as  a  Deputy 
from  this  State  in  addition  to  the  Persons  heretofore  appointed;  And 
that  he  be,  and  he  hereby  is  invested  with  like  Powers  and  authori- 
ties as  are  invested  in  the  said  Deputies  or  any  of  them. 

Signed  by  Order  of  the  House 

Thomas  Miffun  Speaker. 
Enacted  into  a  Law  at  Philadelphia  on  Wednesday  the  twenty 
eighth  day  of  March,  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  one  thousand  seven 
hundred  &  eighty  seven. 

Peter  Zachary  Lloyd 
Clerk  of  the  General  Assembly. 

I  Mathew  Irwine  Esquire,  Master  of  the  Rolls  for  the  State  of 
Pensylvania  Do  Certify  the  above  to  be  a  true  Copy  (or  Exempli- 
fication) of  a  Supplement  to  a  certain  Act  of  Assembly  which 
Supplement  is  lodged  in  my  Office 

(Seal)         In  Witness  whereof  I  have  hereunto  set  my  Hand 
and  Seal  of  Office  the  15  May  Ao  D.  1787. 

Mathw  Irwine 
M.  R. 

NORTH   CAROLINA 

The  Sute  of  North  Carouna 

To  the  Honorable  Alexander  Martin  Esquire,  Greeting. 

Whereas  our  General  Assembly,  in  their  late  session  holden  at 
Fayette-ville,  by  adjournment,  in  the  Month  of  January  last,  did 
by  joint  ballot  of  the  Senate  and  House  of  Commons,  elect  Richard 
Caswell,  Alexander  Martin,  William  Richardson  Davie,  Richard 
Dobbs  Spaight,  and  Willie  Jones,  Esquires,  Deputies  to  attend  a 
Convention  of  Delegates  from  the  several  United  States  of  America, 
proposed  to  be  held  at  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  May  next  for  the 
purpose  of  revising  the  Foederal  Constitution. 

We  do  therefore  by  these  Presents,  nominate,  Commissionate 
and  appoint  you  the  said  Alexander  Martin,  one  of  the  Deputies 
for  and  in  our  behalf  to  meet  with  our  other  Deputies  at  Philadelphia 
on  the  first  day  of  May  next  and  with  them  or  any  two  of  them  to 


568     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

confer  with  8uch  Deputies  as  may  have  been  or  shall  be  appointed 
by  the  other  States,  for  the  purpose  aforesaid:  To  holdy  exercise  and 
enjoy  the  appointment  aforesaid,  with  all  Powers,  Authorities  and 
Emoluments  to  the  same  belonging  or  in  any  wise  appertaining,^ 
You  conforming,  in  every  instance,  to  the  Act  of  our  satid  Assembly 
under  which  you  are  appointed. 

Witness  Richard  Caswell  Esquire,  our  Governor,  Captain- 
General  and  Commander  in  Chief,  under  his  Hand  and  our 
Great  Seal  at  Kinston  the  24th  day  of  February  in  the  XI 
Year  of  our  Independence 

RiCD  (Seal)  Caswell. 

Ao  Di  1787. 

By  His  Excellency's 
Command. 

Winston  Caswell  P.  Secy 

The  State  of  North-Carolina 

To  the  Honorable  William  Richardson  Davie  Esquire  Greeting. 

Whereas  our  General  Assembly  in  their  late  session  holden  at 
Fayette-ville,  by  adjournment,  in  the  Month  of  January  last,  did 
by  joint-ballot  of  the  Senate  and  House  of  Commons,  elect  Richard 
Caswell,  Alexander  Martin,  William  Richardson  Davie,  Richard 
Dobbs  Spaight  Be  Willie  Jones  Esquires,  Deputies  to  attend  a  Con- 
vention of  Delegates  from  the  several  United  States  of  America 
proposed  to  be  held  in  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  May  next  for  the 
purpose  of  revising  the  Foederal  Constitution. 

We  do  therefore,  by  these  Presents,  nominate  Commissionate 
and  appoint  you  the  said  William  Richardson  Davie  one  of  the 
Deputies  for  and  in  our  behalf  to  meet  with  our  other  Deputies  at 
Philadelphia  on  the  first  day  of  May  next  and  with  them  or  any  two 
of  them  to  confer  with  such  Deputies  as  may  have  been  or  shall  be 
appointed  by  the  other  States  for  the  Purposes  aforesaid  To  hold^ 
exercise  and  enjoy  the  said  appointment  with  all  Powers  authorities 
and  emoluments  to  the  same  belonging  or  in  any  wise  appertaining, 
You  conforming,  in  every  instance,  to  the  Act  of  our  said  Assembly 
under  which  you  are  appointed. 

Witness  Richard  Caswell  Esquire,  our  Governor,  Captain- 
General  and  Commander  in  Chief  under  his  Hand  and  our 

^  "The  Assembly  have  directed  the  same  allowance  to  be  made  the  Deputies  as 
is  granted  to  the  Delegates  to  Congress  to  be  paid  by  the  Governor's  Warrant  on  the 
CoUectora  of  Imports  out  of  the  monies  now  due  for  Goods  Imported."  (Governor 
Caswell  to  each  Delegate,  January  7,  17S7,  North  Carolina  StaU  lUnrds,  XX,  60a) 


-    ■    ' — ■'    iJte-a'V^ 


APPENDIX   B  569 

Great  Seal  at  Kinston  the  24th  day  of  February  in  the  XI. 
Year  of  our  Independence,  Anno.  Dom.  1787: 

Rd  (Seal.)  Caswell 
By  His  Excellency's  Command 
Winston  Caswell  P.  Secy. 

The  State  of  North  Carolina 

To  the  Honorable  Richard  Dobbs  Spaighi  Esquire,  Greeting. 
Whereas  our  General  Assembly  in  their  late  session  holden  at 
Fayette-ville,  by  adjournment,  in  the  month  of  January  last,  did 
elect  you  the  said  Richard  Dobbs  Spaight  with  Richard  Caswell, 
Alexander  Martin,  William  Richardson  Davie,  and  Willie  Jones 
Esquires,  Deputies  to  attend  a  Convention  of  Delegates  from  the 
several  United  States  of  America  proposed  to  be  held  in  the  City  of 
Philadelphia  in  May  next,  for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  Foederal 
Constitution. 

We  do  therefore  by  these  Presents  nominate,  Commissionate 
and  appoint  you  the  said  Richard  Dobbs  Spaight  one  of  the  Dep- 
uties for  and  in  behalf  of  us  to  meet  with  our  other  Deputies  at 
Philadelphia  on  the  first  day  of  May  next  and  with  them  or  any  two 
of  them  to  confer  with  such  Deputies  as  may  have  been  or  shall  be 
appointed  by  the  other  States  for  the  purpose  aforesaid.  To  holdy 
exercise  and  enjoy  the  said  Appointment  with  all  Powers,  Authorities 
and  Emoluments  to  the  same  incident  and  belonging  or  in  any  wise 
appertaining.  You  conforming  in  every  instance,  to  the  Act  of 
our  said  Assembly  under  which  you  are  appointed. 

Witness  Richard  Caswell  Esquire,  our  Governor  Captain- 
General  and  Commander  in  Chief  under  his  Hand  and  our 
Great  Seal  at  Kinston  the  14th  day  of  April  in  the  Xlth  Year 
of  our  Independence  Anno.  Dom.  1787. 

Rd.  (Seal)  Caswell. 
By  His  Excellency's  Command 
Winston  Caswell  P.  Secy 

State  of  North-Carolina 

His  Excellency  Richard  Caswell  Esquire  Governor,  Captain 
General  and  Commander  in  Chief  in  and  over  the  State  afore- 
said. 
To  all  to  whom  these  Presents  shall  come 

Greeting. 
Whereas  by  an  Act  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  said  State 
passed  the  sixth  day  of  January  last,  entitled  "An  Act  for  appoint- 
ing Deputies  from  this  State,  to  a  Convention  proposed  to  be  held 


570     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

in  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  May  next,  for  the  purpose  of  Revising 
the  Foederal  Constitution"  among  other  things  it  is  Enacted  ''That 
five  Commissioners  be  appointed  by  joint-ballot  of  both  Houses  of 
Alsembly  who,  or  any  three  of  them,  are  hereby  authorized  as  Depu- 
tiet  from  this  State  to  meet  at  Philadelphia  on  the  first  day  of  May 
next,  then  and  there  to  meet  and  confer  with  such  Deputies  as  may 
be  appointed  by  the  other  States  for  similar  purposes,  and  with  them 
to  discuss  and  decide  upon  the  most  effectual  means  to  remove  the 
defects  of  our  Foederal  Union,  and  to  procure  the  enlarged  Purposes 
which  it  was  intended  to  effect,  and  that  they  report  such  an  Act 
to  the  General  Assembly  of  this  State  as  when  agreed  to  by  them, 
will  effectually  provide  for  the  same."  And  it  is  by  the  said  Act, 
further  Enacted,  "That  in  case  of  the  death  or  resignation  of  any  of 
the  Deputies  or  of  their  declining  their  Appointments,  His  Excel- 
lency the  Governor  for  the  Time  being,  is  hereby  authorized  to  sup- 
ply such  Vacancies."  And  Whereas,  in  consequence  of  the  said 
Act,  Richard  Caswell,  Alexander  Martin,  William  Richardson  Davie, 
Richard  Dobbs  Spaight  and  Willie  Jones  Esquires,  were  by  joint- 
ballot  of  the  two  Houses  of  Assembly,  elected  Deputies  for  the  pur- 
poses aforesaid:  And  Whereas  the  said  Richard  Caswell  hath  resigned 
his  said  Appointment  as  one  of  the  Deputies  aforesaid. 

Now  KNOW  Ye  that  I  have  appointed  and  by  these  Presents  do 
appoint  the  Honorable  William  Blount  Esquire,  one  of  the  Dep- 
uties to  represent  this  State  in  the  Convention  aforesaid,  in  the  room 
and  stead  of  the  aforesaid  Richard  Caswell,  hereby  giving  and  grant- 
ing to  the  said  Willla.m  Blount  the  same  Powers,  Privileges  and 
Emoluments  which  the  said  Richard  Caswell  would  have  been 
vested  with  or  entitled  to,  had  he  continued  in  the  Appointment 
aforesaid. 

Given  under  my  Hand  and  the  Great  Seal  of  the  State,  at 
Kinston,  the  23d  day  of  April  Anno  Dom  1787.  And  in  the 
Eleventh  Year  of  American  Independence. 

Rid.  (Seal)  Caswell. 
By  His  Excellency's  Command 
Winston  Caswell  P.  Secy 

State  of  North-Carolina 

His  Excellency  Richard  Caswell  Esquire,  Governor,  Captain- 
General  and  Commander  in  Chief,  in  and  over  the  State 
aforesaid. 
To  all  to  whom  these  Presents  shall  come 

Greeting. 
Whereas  by  an  Act  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  said  State, 


APPENDIX   B  57 1 

passed  the  sixth  day  of  January  last,  entitled  ''An  Act  for  appoint- 
ing Deputies  from  this  State,  to  a  Convention  proposed  to  be  held 
in  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  May  next  for  the  purpose  of  revising 
the  Foederal  Constitution"  among  other  things  it  is  enacted  ''That 
five  Cbmmissioners  be  appointed  by  joint-ballot  of  both  Houses  of 
Assembly,  who,  or  any  three  of  whom,  are  hereby  authorized  as 
Deputies  from  this  State,  to  meet  at  Philadelphia  on  the  first  day 
of  May  next,  then  and  there  to  meet  and  confer  with  such  Deputies 
as  may  be  appointed  by  the  other  States  for  similar  purposes  and 
with  them  to  discuss  and  decide  upon  the  most  effectual  means  to 
remove  the  defects  of  our  Foederal  Union,  and  to  procure  the  en- 
larged purposes,  which  it  was  intended  to  effect,  and  that  they  report 
such  an  Act  to  the  General  Assembly  of  this  State,  as  when  agreed 
to  by  them,  will  effectually  provide  for  the  same."  And  it  is  by  the 
said  Act,  further  enacted  "That  in  case  of  the  death  or  resignation 
of  any  of  the  Deputies,  or  their  declining  their  Appointments  His 
Excellency  the  Governor  for  the  Time  being  is  hereby  authorized 
to  supply  such  Vacancies." 

And  Whereas  in  consequence  of  the  said  Act  Richard  Caswell, 
Alexander  Martin,  William  Richardson  Davie,  Richard  Dobbs 
Spaight  and  Willie  Jones  Esquires,  were  by  joint-ballot  of  ye  two 
Houses  of  Assembly  elected  Deputies  for  the  purposes  aforesaid. 
And  Whereas  the  said  Willie  Jones  hath  declined  his  Appointment  as 
one  of  the  Deputies  aforesaid 

Now  KNOW  Ye  that  I  have  appointed  and  by  these  Presents 

do  appoint  the  Honorable  Hugh  Williamson  Esquire,  one  of  the 

Deputies  to  represent  this  State  in  the  Convention  aforesaid  in  the 

room  and  stead  of  the  aforesaid  Willie  Jones,  hereby  giving  and 

granting  to  the  said  Hugh  Williamson  the  same  Powers,  Privileges 

and  emoluments  which  the  said  Willie  Jones  would  have  been  vested 

with  and  entitled  to  had  he  acted  under  the  Appointment  aforesaid. 

Given  under  my  Hand  and  the  Great  Seal  of  the  State  at 

Kinston  the  third  day  of  April  Anno  Dom.  1787.  and  in  the 

Eleventh  Year  of  American  Independence 

By  His  Excellency's  Command 
Dallam  Caswell  Pro 

Secretary  

NEW  HAMPSHIRE 

State  of  New )  In  the  House  of  Representatives 

Hampshire       )  Jany  17th  1787 — 

Resolved,  that  any  two  of  the  Delegates  of  this  State  to  the 
Congress  of  the  United  States,  be  &  hereby  are  appointed  and  author- 


572     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

ized  as  Deputies  from  this  State,  to  meet  such  Deputies  as  may  be 
appointed  Be  authorized  by  other  States  in  the  Union,  to  assemble 
in  Convention  at  Philadelphia  on  the  second  day  of  May  next,  and 
to  join  with  them  in  devising  &  discussing  all  such  alterations  & 
further  provisions  as  to  render  the  federal  Constitution  adequate 
to  the  Exigencies  of  the  Union  &  in  reporting  such  an  Act  to  the 
United  States  in  Congress,  as  when  agreed  to  by  them,  &  duly  con- 
firmed by  the  several  States,  will  effectually  provide  for  the  same. 
But  in  case  of  the  Death  of  any  of  said  Deputies,  or  their  declining 
their  Appointments,  the  Executive  is  hereby  authorized  to  supply 
such  vacancies,  and  the  President  is  requested  to  transmit  forth- 
with a  copy  of  this  Resolve  to  the  United  States  in  Congress  and 
to  the  Executive  of  each  of  the  States  in  the  Union.  — 

Sent  up  for  Concurrence 

John  Langdon  Speaker 

In  Senate  the  same  day  read  &  concurred  with  this  Amendment 
that  the  said  Delegates  shall  proceed  to  join  the  Convention  afore- 
said, in  case  Congress  shall  signify  to  them,  that  they  approve  of 
the  Convention,  as  advantageous  to  the  Union  and  not  an  infringe- 
ment of  the  Powers  granted  to  Cbngress  by  the  Confederation. 

Jno  Suluvan  President 

In  the  House  of  Representatives  the  same  day  read  Be  concurred 

John  Langdon  Speaker 

A  true  Copy 

Attest  Joseph  Pearson  Secy 

State  of  New  Hampshire* 

In  the  Year  of  our  Lord  One  thousand  seven  hundred  and  Eighty 
seven. 

An  Act  for  appointing  Deputies  from  this  State  to  the  Conven- 
tion, proposed  to  be  holden  in  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  May  1787 
for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  federal  Constitution 

Whereas  in  the  formation  of  the  federal  Compact,  which  frames 
the  bond  of  Union  of  the  American  States,  it  was  not  possible  in 

*  No  action  was  taken  under  the  previous  retolution»  and  a  further  act  became 
necessary. 

"The  representations  of  this  State,  even  at  that  late  day,  were  secured  only  by 
urgent  efforts  from  abroad  and  extraordinary  efforts  at  home.  The  finances  of  the 
State  were  in  a  deplorable  condition  and  it  is  impossible  to  realize  at  the  present  time 
what  the  undertaking  was  to  provide  cash  for  any  considerable  public  enterprise.  It 
was  currently  reported  in  the  newspapers  of  the  day  that  the  expenses  of  Mr.  Gillman 
and  himself  were  defrayed  out  of  \fr.  Langdon's  private  purse.**  Ntw  Htmpskin 
SuUf  Papifs,  XX,  843,  cittng  2  New  Hampshire  Historical  Society  Proeteiings^  a8. 


APPENDIX   B  573 

the  infant  state  of  our  Republic  to  devise  a  system  which  in  the  course 
of  time,  and  experience,  would  not  manifest  imperfections  that  it 
would  be  necessary  to  reform. 

And  Whereas  the  limited  powers,  which  by  the  Articles  of  Con- 
federation, are  vested  in  the  Cbngress  of  the  United  States,  have  been 
found  far  inadequate,  to  the  enlarged  purposes  which  they  were 
intended  to  produce.  And  Whereas  Congress  hath,  by  repeated 
and  most  urgent  representations,  endeavoured  to  awaken  this,  and 
other  States  of  the  Union,  to  a  sense  of  the  truly  critical  and  alarming 
situation  in  which  they  may  inevitably  be  involved,  unless  timely 
measures  be  taken  to  enlarge  the  powers  of  Congress,  that  they  may 
be  thereby  enabled  to  avert  the  dangers  which  threaten  our  existence 
as  a  free  and  independent  People.  And  Whereas  this  State  hath 
been  ever  desirous  to  act  upon  the  liberal  system  of  the  general  good 
of  the  United  States,  without  circumscribing  its  views,  to  the  narrow 
and  selfish  objects  of  partial  convenience;  and  has  been  at  all  times 
ready  to  make  every  concession  to  the  safety  and  happiness  of  the 
whole,  which  justice  and  sound  policy  could  vindicate. 

Be  it  therefore  enacted,  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives in  General  Court  convened  that  John  Langdon,  John 
Pickering,  Nicholas  Gilman  &  Benjamin  West  Esquires  be 
and  hereby  are  appointed  Cbmmissioners,  they  or  any  two  of  them, 
are  hereby  authorized,  and  empowered,  as  Deputies  from  this  State 
to  meet  at  Philadelphia  said  Convention  or  any  other  place,  to  which 
the  Convention  may  be  adjourned,  for  the  purposes  aforesaid,  there 
to  confer  with  such  Deputies,  as  are,  or  may  be  appointed  by  the 
other  States  'for  similar  purposes;  and  with  them  to  discuss  and 
decide  upon  the  most  effectual  means  to  remedy  the  defects  of  our 
federal  Union;  and  to  procure,  and  secure,  the  enlaiged  purposes 
which  it  was  intended  to  effect,  and  to  report  such  an  Act,  to  the 
United  States  in  Congress,  as  when  agreed  to  by  them,  and  duly 
confirmed  by  the  several  States,  will  effectually  provide  for  the  same. 
State  of  New  In   the  House  of  Representatives  June   27th 

Hampshire       J        1787. 

The  foregoing  Bill  having  been  read  a  third  time,  Voted  that  it 
pass  to  be  enacted. 

Sent  up  for  Concurrence 

John  Sparhawk  Speaker 

In  Senate,  the  same  day  —  This  Bill  having  been  read  a  third 
time,  —  Voted  that  the  same  be  enacted. 

Jno  Suluvan  President. 
Copy  Examined 

Pr  Joseph  Pearson  Secy.    (Seal  appendt.) 


574  RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

DELAWARE 
Delaware 

His  Excellency  Thomas  Collins^  Esquire,  President,  Captain 

General,  and  Commander  in  Chief  of  the  Delaware  State; 

To  all  to  whom  these  Presents  shall  come,  Greeting.    Know 

Ye,  that  among  the  Laws  of  the  said  State,  passed  by  the 

General  Assembly  of  the  same,  on  the  third  day  of  February, 

(Seal)  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  One  thousand  seven  hundred  and 

Eighty  seven,  it  is  thus  inroUed. 

In  the  Eleventh  Year  of  the  Independence  of  the  Delaware 

Sute 

An  Act  appointing  Deputies  from  this  State  to  the  Convention 
proposed  to  be  held  in  the  City  of  Philadelphia  for  the  Purpose  of 
revising  the  Federal  Constitution. 

Whereas  the  General  Assembly  of  this  State  are  fully  convinced 
of  the  Necessity  of  revising  the  Federal  Constitution,  and  adding 
thereto  such  further  Provisions,  as  may  render  the  same  more  ade- 
quate to  the  Exigencies  of  the  Union;  And  Whereas  the  Legislature 
of  Virginia  have  already  passed  an  Act  of  that  Commonwealth, 
appointing  and  authorizing  certain  Commissioners  to  meet,  at  the 
City  of  Philadelphia,  in  May  next,  a  Convention  of  Commissioners 
or  Deputies  from  the  different  States:  And  this  State  being  willing 
and  desirous  of  co-operating  with  the  Commonwealth  of  Virginia, 
and  the  other  States  in  the  Confederation,  in  so  useful  a  design. 

Be  it  therefore  enacted  by  the  General  Assembly  of  Delaware, 
that  George  Read,  Gunning  Bedford,  John  Dickinson,  Robert  Bas- 
sett  and  Jacob  Broom,  Esquires,  are  hereby  appointed  Deputies 
from  this  State  to  meet  in  the  Convention  of  the  Deputies  of  other 
States,  to  be  held  at  the  City  of  Philadelphia  on  the  Second  day  of 
May  next:  And  the  said  George  Read,  Gunning  Bedford,  John  Dick- 
inson, Richard  Bassett  and  Jacob  Broom,  Esquires,  or  any  three  of 
them,  are  hereby  constituted  and  appointed  Deputies  from  this 
State,  with  Powers  to  meet  such  Deputies  as  may  be  appointed  and 
authorized  by  the  other  States  to  assemble  in  the  said  Convention  at 
the  City  aforesaid,  and  to  join  with  them  in  devising,  deliberating 
on,  and  discussing,  such  Alterations  and  further  Provisions  as  may 
be  necessary  to  render  the  Foederal  Constitution  adequate  to  the 
Exigencies  of  the  Union;  and  in  reporting  such  Act  or  Acts  for  that 
purpose  to  the  United  States  in  Congress  Assembled,  as  when  agreed 
to  by  them,  and  duly  confirmed  by  the  several  States,  may  effectually 
provide  for  the  same:  So  always  and  Provided,  that  such  Alterations 
or  further  Provisions,  or  any  of  them,  do  not  extend  to  that  part 
of  the  Fifth  Article  of  the  Confederation  of  the  said  States,  finally 


APPENDIX   B  575 

ratified  on  the  first  day  of  March,  in  the  Year  One  thousand  seven 
hundred  and  eighty  one,  which  declares  that  '^  In  determining  Ques- 
^'tions  in  the  United  States  in  Congress  Assembled  each  State  shall 
"have  one  Vote."  • 

And  be  it  enacted,  that  in  Case  any  of  the  said  Deputies  hereby 
nominated,  shall  happen  to  die,  or  to  resign  his  or  their  Appoint- 
ment, the  President  or  Commander  in  Chief  with  the  Advice  of  the 
Privy  Council,  in  the  Recess  of  the  General  Assembly,  is  hereby 
authorized  to  supply  such  Vacancies 


Passed  at  Dover, 
February  3d.  1787. 


Signed  by  Order  of  the  House  of  Assembly 

John  Cook,  Speaker 

Signed  by  Order  of  the  Council 

Geo  Craghead,  Speaker. 

All  and  singular  which  Premises  by  the  Tenor  of  these  Presents, 

I  have  caused  to  be  Exemplified.     In  Testimony  whereof  I  have 

hereunto  subscribed  my  Name,  and  caused  the  Great-Seal  of  the 

said  State  to  be  affixed  to  these  Presents,  at  New  Castle  the  Second 

day  of  April  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  One  thousand  seven  hundred 

and  eighty  seven,  and  in  the  Eleventh  Year  of  the  Independence  of 

the  United  States  of  America  _        r^ 

Thos  Collins 

Attest 

Ja  Booth  Secy. 

'George  Read  to  John  Dickinson.* 

New  Ca$tle,  January  17th,  1787. 

Deaf  StTy  —  Finding  that  Viiginia  hath  again  taken  the  lead  in  the  proposed 
convention  at  Philadelphia  in  May,  as  recommended  in  our  report  when  at  Annapolis, 
as  by  an  act  of  their  Assembly,  passed  the  22d  of  November  last,  and  inserted  in  Dun- 
lap's  paper  of  the  15th  of  last  month,  it  occurred  to  me,  as  a  prudent  measure  on  the 
part  of  our  State,  that  its  Legislature  should,  in  the  act  of  appdntment,  so  far  restrain 
the  powers  of  the  commissioners,  whom  they  shall  name  on  this  service,  as  that  they 
may  not  extend  to  any  alteration  in  that  part  of  the  fifth  article  of  the  present  Con- 
federation, which  gives  each  State  one  vote  in  determining  questions  in  Congress,  and 
the  latter  part  of  the  thirteenth  article,  as  to  future  alterations,  —  that  is,  that  such 
dause  shaU  be  preserved  or  inserted,  for  the  like  purpose,  in  any  revision  that  shall 
be  made  and  agreed  to  in  the  proposed  convention.  I  conceive  our  existence  as  a 
State  will  depend  upon  our  preserving  such  rights,  for  I  consider  the  acts  of  Congress 
hitherto,  as  to  the  ungranted  lands  in  most  of  the  larger  States,  as  sacrificing  the  just 
claims  of  the  smaller  and  bounded  States  to  a  proportional  share  therein,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  discharging  the  national  debt  incurred  during  the  war;  and  such  is  my  jealousy 
of  most  of  the  larger  States,  that  I  would  trust  nothing  to  their  candor,  generosity, 
or  ideas  of  public  justice  in  behalf  of  this  State,  from  what  has  heretofore  happened, 
and  which,  I  presume,  hath  not  escaped  your  notice.  But  as  I  am  generally  distrust- 
fal  of  my  own  judgment,  and  particularly  in  public  matters  of  consequence,  I  wish  your 


*  W.  T.  Read,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  George  Read,  pp.  438-439. 


576     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

GEORGIA 
Georgia 

By   the   Honorable   George   Mathews    Esquire,    Captain 

General,  Governor  and  G>mmander  in  Chief,  in  and  over 

the  said  State  aforesaid. 

To  all  to  whom  these  Presents  shall  come  Greeting. 

Know  ye  that  John  Milton  Esquire,  who  hath  Certified 

the  annexed  Copy  of  an  Ordinance  intitled  ''An  Ordinance  for 

''the  appointment  of  Deputies  from  this  State  for  the  purpose 

"of  revising  the  Foederal   Constitution"  —  is  Secretary  of  the 

said  State  in  whose  Office  the  Archives  of  the  same  are  deposited. 

Therefore  all  due  faith.  Credit  and  Authority  are  and  ought  to 

be  had  and  given  the  same. 

In  Testomony  whereof  I  have  hereunto  set  my  hand  and 

caused  the  Great  Seal  of  the  said  State  to  be  put  and  affixed 

at  Augusta^  this  Twenty  fourth  day  of  April  in  the  Year  of 

our  Lord  One  thousand  seven  hundred  and  eighty  seven  and 

of  our  Sovereignty  and  Independence  the  Eleventh. 

Geo:  (Seal)  Mathews 

By  his  Honor's  Command 

J.  Milton  Secy 

An  Ordinance  for  the  appointment  of  Deputies  from  this  State 
for  the  purpose  of  revising  the  Foederal  Constitution. 

Be  it  Ordained  by  the  Representatives  of  the  Freemen  of  the 
State  of  Georgia  in  General  Assembly  met  and  by  the  Authority 
of  the  same,  that  William  Few,  Abraham  Baldwin,  William 
Pierce,  George  Walton  Willlam  Houstoun  and  Nathaniel 
Pendleton  Esquires,  Be,  and  they  are  hereby  appointed  Com- 

consideration  of  the  prudence  or  propriety  of  the  Legislature's  adopting  such  a  measurep 
and  more  particularly  for  that  I  do  suppose  you  will  be  one  of  its  commissioiiers. 
Persuaded  I  am,  from  what  I  have  seen  occasionally  in  the  public  prints  and  heard 
in  private  conversations,  that  the  voice  of  the  States  will  be  one  of  the  subjects  ol 
revision,  and  in  a  meeting  where  there  will  be  so  great  an  interested  majority,  I  suspect 
the  argument  or  oratory  of  the  smaller  State  commissioners  will  avail  little.  In  such 
circumstances  I  conceive  it  will  relieve  the  commissioners  of  the  State  from  dtsagiee- 
able  argumentation,  as  well  as  prevent  the  downfall  of  the  State,  which  would  at  once 
become  a  cypher  in  the  union,  and  have  no  chance  of  an  accession  of  district,  or  even 
citizens;  for,  as  we  presendy  stand,  our  quota  is  increased  upon  us,  in  the  requisition 
of  this  year,  more  than  thirteen-eightieths  since  1775,  without  any  other  reason  that 
I  can  suggest  than  a  promptness  in  the  Legislature  of  this  State  to  comply  with  all  the 
Congress  requisitions  from  time  to  time.  This  increase  alone,  without  additkxiy 
would  in  the  course  of  a  few  years  banish  many  of  its  citizens  and  impoverish  the 
remainder;  therefore,  clear  I  am  that  every  guard  that  can  be  devised  for  this  State's 
protection  against  future  encroachment  should  be  preserved  or  made.  I  wish  your 
opinion  on  the  subject  as  soon  as  convenient. 


APPENDIX  B  577 

missioners,  who,  or  any  two  or  more  of  them  are  hereby  author- 
ized as  Deputies  from  this  State  to  meet  such  deputies  as  may  be 
appointed  and  authorized  by  other  States  to  assemble  in  Convention 
at  Philadelphia  and  to  join  with  them  in  devising  and  discussing 
all  such  Alterations  and  farther  Provisions  as  may  be  necessary  to 
render  the  Federal  Constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  the 
Union,  and  in  reporting  such  an  Act  for  that  purpose  to  the  United 
States  in  Congress  Assembled  as  when  agreed  to  by  them,  and  duly 
confirmed  by  the  several  States,  will  effectually  provide  for  the  same. 
In  case  of  the  death  of  any  of  the  said  Deputies,  or  of  their  declining 
their  appointments,  the  Executive  are  hereby  authorized  to  supply 
such  Vacancies. 

By  Order  of  the  House 

(signed)  Wm  Gibbons  Speaker. 
Augusta  the  lo  February  1787. 
Georgia. 

Secretary's  Office 
The  above  is  a  true  Copy  from  the  Original  Ordinance  deposited 
in  my  Office. 

Augusta  1 
24  April  1 787  J  J:  Milton  Secy. 

The  State  of  Georgia  by  the  grace  of  God,  free,  Sovereign  and  Inde- 
pendent. 

To  the  Honorable  William  Pierce  Esquire. 
Whereas  you  the  said  William  Pierce,  are  in  and  by  an  Ordi- 
nance of  the  General  Assembly  of  our  said  State  Nominated  and 
Appointed  a  Deputy  to  represent  the  same  in  a  Convention  of  the 
United  States  to  be  assembled  at  Philadelphia,  for  the  Purposes 
of  devising  and  discussing  all  such  Alterations  and  farther  Provi- 
sions as  may  be  necessary  to  render  the  Foederal  Constitution  ade- 
quate to  the  Exigencies  of  the  Union. 

You  are  therefore  hereby  Commissioned  to  proceed  on  the  duties 
required  of  you  in  virtue  of  the  said  Ordinance 

Witness  our  trusty  and  well  beloved  George  Mathews  Es- 
quire, our  Captain  General,  Governor  and  Commander  in 
Chief,  under  his  hand  and  our  Great  Seal  at  Augusta  this 
Seventeenth  day  of  April  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  one  thou- 
sand seven  hundred  and  eighty  seven  and  of  our  Sovereignty 
and  Independence  the  Eleventh. 

Geo:  NIathews  (Seal.) 
By  His  Honor's  Command. 
J.  Milton.  Secy. 


578     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

The  State  of  Georgia  by  the  grace  of  God  free.  Sovereign  and  Inde- 
pendent. 

To  the  Honorable  Wiluam  Few  Esquire. 
Whereas  you  the  said  William  Few,  are  in  and  by  an  Ordinance 
of  the  General  Assembly  of  our  said  State  Nominated  and  appointed 
a  Deputy  to  represent  the  same  in  a  Convention  of  the  United  States 
to  be  assembled  at  Philadelphia,  for  the  Purposes  of  devising  and 
discussing  all  such  Alterations  and  farther  Provisions  as  may  be 
necessary  to  render  the  Foederal  Constitution  adequate  to  the  Exi- 
gencies of  the  Union. 

You  are  therefore  hereby  Commissioned  to  proceed  on  the  duties 
required  of  you  in  virtue  of  the  said  Ordinance. 

WrTNESS  our  trusty  and  well-beloved  George  Mathews 
Esquire  our  Captain-General,  Governor  and  Commander  in 
Chief,  under  his  hand  and  our  Great  Seal  at  Augusta,  this 
seventeenth  day  of  April  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  One  thousand 
seven  hundred  and  eighty  Seven,  and  of  our  Sovereignty 
and  Independence  the  Eleventh. 

Geo:  (Seal.)  Mathews. 
By  His  Honor's  Command 
J.  Milton  Secy 

The  State  of  Georgia  by  the  grace  of  God,  free.  Sovereign  and  Inde- 
pendent. 

To  the  Honorable  William  Houstoun  Esquire 
Whereas  you  the  said  William  Houstoun^  are  in  and  by  an 
Ordinance  of  the  General  Assembly  of  our  said  State  nominated 
and  appointed  a  Deputy  to  represent  the  same  in  a  Convention  of 
the  United  States  to  be  assembled  at  Philadelphia,  for  the  purposes 
of  devising  and  discussing  all  such  Alterations  and  farther  Provisions 
as  may  be  necessary  to  render  the  Foederal  Constitution  adequate 
to  the  Exigencies  of  the  Union. 

You  are  therefore  hereby  Commissioned  to  proceed  on  the  Duties 
required  of  you  in  virtue  of  the  said  Ordinance. 

WrTNESS  our  trusty  and  well-beloved  George  Mathews 
Esquire,  our  Captain-General,  Governor  and  Commander 
in  Chief,  under  his  hand  and  our  Great  Seal  at  Augusta, 
this  seventeenth  day  of  April  in  the  Year  of  our  Lord  one 
thousand  seven  hundred  and  eighty  seven,  and  of  our  Sov- 
ereignty and  Independence  the  Eleventh. 

Geo:  {Seal.)  Mathews 
By  his  Honor's  Command 
J.  Milton    Secy 


APPENDIX   B  579 

XT      V    u  NEWYORK^ 

New- York. 

By  His  Excellency  George  Qinton  Esquire  Gov- 
ernor of  the  State  of  New  York  General  and  Cbm- 
(Seal)         mander  in  Chief  of  all  the  Militia  and  Admiral  of 
the  Navy  of  the  same. 
To  all  to  whom  these  Presents  shall  come 

It  is  by  these  Presents  certified  that  John  McKesson  who 
has  subscribed  the  annexed  Copies  of  Resolutions  is  Qerk  of  the 
Assembly  of  this  State. 

In  Testimony  whereof  I  have  caused  the  Privy  Seal  of  the 
said  State  to  be  hereunto  affixed  this  Ninth  day  of  May  in 
the  Eleventh  Year  of  the  Independence  of  the  said  State. 

Geo:  Clinton. 
State  of  New  York 

In  Assembly  February  28th  1787. 
A  Copy  of  a  Resolution  of  the  honorable  the  Senate,  delivered 
by  Mr  Williams,  was  read,  and  is  in  the  Words  following,  vizt. 

Resolved,  if  the  honorable  the  Assembly  concur  herein,  that 
three  Delegates  be  appointed  on  the  part  of  this  State,  to  meet  such 
Delegates  as  may  be  appointed  on  the  part  of  the  other  States  respec- 
tively, on  the  second  Monday  in  may  next,  at  Philadelphia,  for  the 
sole  and  express  purpose  of  revising  the  Articles  of  Confederation, 
and  reporting  to  Congress,  and  to  the  several  Legislatures,  such 

'  Before  New  York  took  action.  Congress  formally  authorized  the  convention  in 
Philadelphia.  As  subsequent  credentials  were  to  some  extent  influenced  by  the 
Resolution  of  Congress,  it  seems  best  to  insert  it  here,  although  it  is  given  in 
Appendix  A,  I. 

Br 

The  United  States  in  Congress  Assembled 

February  21st  1787. 

Whereas  there  is  provision  in  the  Articles  of  Confederation  and  perpetual  Union, 
for  making  alterations  therein,  by  the  assent  of  a  Congress  of  the  United  States,  and 
of  the  legislatures  of  the  several  States;  and  whereas  experience  hath  evinced,  that 
there  are  defects  in  the  present  confederation,  as  a  mean  to  remedy  which,  several  of 
the  States,  and  particularly  the  State  of  New-York,  by  express  instructions  to  their 
Delegates  in  Congress,  have  suggested  a  Convention  for  the  purposes  expressed  in  the 
following  Resolution;  and  such  Convention  appearing  to  be  the  most  probable  means 
of  establishing  in  these  States  a  firm  national  Government. 

Resolved,  That  in  the  opinion  of  Congress,  it  is  expedient,  that  on  the  second 
Monday  in  May  next,  a  Convention  of  Delegates,  who  shall  have  been  appointed  by 
the  several  States,  be  held  at  Philadelphia,  for  the  sole  and  express  purpose  of  revising 
the  Articles  of  Confederation,  and  reporting  to  Congress  and  the  several  Legislatures, 
such  alterations  and  provisions  therein,  as  shall,  when  agreed  to  in  Congress,  and  con- 
firmed by  the  States,  render  the  federal  Constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of 
Government,  and  the  preservation  of  the  Union. 


580     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

alterations  and  Provisions  therein,  as  shall,  when  agreed  to  in 
Congress,  and  confirmed  by  the  several  States,  render  the  federal 
Constitution  adequate  to  the  Exigencies  of  Government,  and  the 
preservation  of  the  Union;  and  that  in  case  of  such  concurrence, 
the  two  Houses  of  the  Legislature,  will,  on  Tuesday  next,  proceed  to 
nominate  and  appoint  the  said  Delegates,  in  like  manner  as  is  directed 
by  the  Constitution  of  this  State,  for  nominating  and  appointing 
Delegates  to  Congress. 

Resolved,  that  this  House  do  concur  with  the  honorable  the  Sen- 
ate, in  the  said  Resolution. 

In  Assembly  March  6th  1787. 

Resolved,  that  the  Honorable  Robert  Yates  Esquire,  and  Alex* 
ander  Hamilton  and  John  Lansing,  Junior  Esquires,  be,  and  they 
are  hereby  nominated  by  this  House,  Delegates  on  the  part  of  this 
State,  to  meet  such  Delegates  as  may  be  appointed  on  the  part  of 
the  other  States  respectively,  on  the  second  Monday  in  May  next, 
at  Philadelphia,  pursuant  to  concurrent  Resolutions  of  both  Houses 
of  the  Legislature,  on  the  28th  Ultimo. 

Resolved,  that  this  House  will  meet  the  Honorable  the  Senate, 
immediately,  at  such  place  as  they  shall  appoint,  to  compare  the 
Lists  of  Persons  nominated  by  the  Senate  and  Assembly  respectively, 
as  Delegates  on  the  part  of  this  State,  to  meet  such  Delegates  as 
may  be  appointed  on  the  part  of  the  other  States  respectively,  on  the 
second  Monday  in  May  next,  at  Philadelphia,  pursuant  to  concurrent 
Resolutions,  of  both  Houses  of  the  Legislature,  on  the  28t  Ultimo. 

Ordered  That  Mr.  N.  Smith  deliver  a  Copy  of  the  last  preceding 
Resolution,  to  the  Honorable  the  Senate. 

A  Copy  of  a  Resolution  of  the  Honorable  the  Senate,  was  deliv- 
ered by  Mr.  Vanderbilt,  that  the  Senate  will  immediately  meet  this 
House  in  the  Assembly  Chamber,  to  compare  the  Lists  of  Persons 
nominated  by  the  Senate  and  Assembly  respectively,  as  Deflates, 
pursuant  to  the  Resolutions  before  mentioned. 

The  Honorable  the  Senate  accordingly  attended  in  the  Assem- 
bly Chamber,  to  compare  the  Lists  of  Persons  nominated  for  Dele- 
gates, as  above  mentioned. 

The  list  of  Persons  nominated  by  the  Honorable  the  Senate, 
were  the  Honorable  Robert  Yates  Esquire,  and  John  Lansing  Jun- 
ior, and  Alexander  Hamilton  Esquires;  and  on  comparing  the  Lists 
of  the  Persons  nominated  by  the  Senate  and  Assembly  respectively, 
it  appeared  that  the  same  Persons  were  nominated  in  both  Lists. 
Thereupon,  Resolved  that  the  Honorable  Robert  Yates,  John  Lan- 
sing Junior  and  Alexander  Hamilton  Esquires,  be,  and  they  are  hereby 
declared  duly  nominated  and  appointed  Delegates,  on  the  part  of 


APPENDIX  B  581 

this  State,  to  meet  such  Delegates  as  may  be  appointed  on  the  part 
of  the  other  States  respectively,  on  the  second  Monday  in  May  next, 
at  Philadelphia,  for  the  sole  and  express  purpose  of  revising  the  Ar- 
ticles of  Confederation,  and  reporting  to  Congress,  and  to  the  sev- 
eral Legislatures,  such  alterations  and  provisions  therein,  as  shall, 
when  agreed  to  in  Congress,  and  confirmed  by  the  several  States, 
render  the  federal  Constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  Govern- 
ment, and  the  preservation  of  the  Union. 

True  Extracts  from  the  Journals  of  the  Assembly 
John  McKesson  Qk. 

SOUTH  CAROLINA 

Bute  of  South  Carolina. 

By  His  Excellency  Thomas  Pinckney  Esquire,  Governor  and 
Commander  in  Chief  in  and  over  the  State  aforesaid. 
To  the  Honorable  John  Rutledge  Esquire 

Greeting. 
By  Virtue  of  the  Power  and  Authority  in  me  vested  by  the  Legis- 
lature of  this  State  in  their  Act  passed  the  eighth  day  of  March  last 
I  do  hereby  Cbmmission  You  the  said  John  Rutledge  as  one  of  the 
Deputies  appointed  from  this  State  to  meet  such  Deputies  or  Com- 
missioners as  may  be  appointed  and  authorized  by  other  of  the  United 
States  to  assemble  in  Convention  at  the  City  of  Philadelphia  in  the 
Month  of  May  next,  or  as  soon  thereafter  as  may  be,  and  to  join 
with  such  Deputies  or  Commissioners  (they  being  duly  authorized 
and  empowered)  in  devising  and  discussing  all  such  Alterations, 
Qauses,  Articles  and  Provisions,  as  may  be  thought  necessary  to 
render  the  Foederal  Constitution  entirely  adequate  to  the  actual 
Situation  and  future  good  Government  of  the  confederated  States, 
and  that  you  together  with  the  said  Deputies  or  Commissioners  or 
a  Majority  of  them  who  shall  be  present  (provided  the  State  be  not 
represented  by  less  than  two)  do  join  in  reporting  such  an  Act,  to 
the  United  States  in  Cbngress  Assembled  as  when  approved  and 
agreed  to  by  them,  and  duly  ratified  and  confirmed  by  the  several 
States  will  effectually  provide  for  the  Exigencies  of  the  Union. 

Given  under  my  hand  and  the  Great  Seal  of  the  State  in  the 
City  of  Charleston,  this  tenth  day  of  April  in  the  Year  of  our 
Lord,  One  thousand  seven  hundred  and  eighty  seven  and  of 
the  Sovereignty  and  Independence  of  the  United  States  of 

America  the  Eleventh.  ^  /c    t  \  n 

Thomas  (Seal.)  Pinckney. 

By  his  Excellency's  Command 

Pbtbr  Freneau  Secretary 


582     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Sute  of  South  Carouna 

By  His   Excellency  Thomas   Pinckney   Esquire,   Governor 
and  Commander  in  Chief  in  and  over  the  State  aforesaid. 
To  the  Honorable  Charles  Pinckney  Esquire. 

Greeting. 
By  Virtue  of  the  Power  and  Authority  in  me  vetted  by  the 
Legislature  of  this  State  in  their  Act  passed  the  eighth  day  of  March 
last,  I  do  hereby  Commission  you  the  said  Charles  Pinckney,  as  one 
of  the  Deputies  appointed  from  this  State  to  meet  such  Deputies 
or  Commissioners  as  may  be  appointed  and  authorized  by  other  of 
the  United  States  to  assemble  in  Convention  at  the  City  of  Phila- 
delphia in  the  Month  of  May  next,  or  as  soon  thereafter  as  may  be, 
and  to  join  with  such  Deputies  or  Commissioners  (they  being  duly 
authorized  and  empowered)  in  devising  and  discussing  all  such 
Alterations,  Qauses,  Articles  and  Provisions,  as  may  be  thought 
necessary  to  render  the  Foederal  Constitution  entirely  adequate 
to  the  actual  Situation  and  future  good  Government  of  the  confed- 
erated States,  and  that  you  together  with  the  said  Deputies  or  Com- 
missioners or  a  Majority  of  them  who  shall  be  present  (provided 
the  State  be  not  represented  by  less  than  two)  do  join  in  reporting 
such  an  Act,  to  the  United  States  in  Cbngress  Assembled  as  when 
approved  and  agreed  to  by  them  and  duly  ratified  and  confirmed 
by  the  several  States  will  effectually  provide  for  the  Exigencies  of 
the  Union. 

Given  under  my  hand  and  the  Great  Seal  of  the  State  in  the 
City  of  Charleston  this  Tenth  day  of  April  in  the  Year  of  our 
Lord  One  thousand  seven  hundred  and  Eighty  Seven  and  of 
the  Sovereignty  and  Independence  of  the  United  States  of 
America  the  Eleventh. 

Thomas  (Seal.)  Pinckney 
By  His  Excellency's  Command 
Peter  Freneau  Secretary. 

State  of  South-Carolina. 

By   His   Excellency  Thomas   Pinckney   Esquire,   Governor 
and  Commander  in  Chief  in  and  over  the  State  aforesaid. 
To  the  Honorable  Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney  Esquire, 

Greeting. 
By  Virtue  of  the  Power  and  Authority  in  me  vested  by  the  Legis- 
lature of  this  State  in  their  Act  passed  the  eighth  day  of  March  last, 
I  do  hereby  Commission  you  the  said  Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney 
as  one  of  the  Deputies  appointed  from  this  State  to  meet  such  Dep- 
uties or  Commissioners  as  may  be  appointed  and  authorized  by  other 


APPENDIX  B  583 

of  the  United  States  to  assemble  in  Convention  at  the  Gty  of  Phil- 
adelphia in  the  Month  of  May  next  or  as  soon  thereafter  as  may  be, 
and  to  join  with  such  Deputies  or  Commissioners  (they  being  duly 
authorized  and  empowered)  in  devising  and  discussing  all  such  Alter- 
ations, QauseSy  Articles  and  Provisions  as  may  be  thought  neces- 
sary to  render  the  Foederal  Constitution  entirely  adequate  to  the 
actual  Situation  and  future  good  Government  of  the  Confederated 
States,  and  that  you  together  with  the  said  Deputies  or  Commis- 
sioners, or  a  Majority  of  them,  who  shall  be  present  (provided  the 
State  be  not  represented  by  less  than  two)  do  join  in  reporting  such 
an  Act  to  the  United  States  in  Congress  Assembled  as  when  approved 
and  agreed  to  by  them  and  duly  ratified  and  confirmed  by  the  sev- 
eral States  will  effectually  provide  for  the  Exigencies  of  the  Union. 
Given  under  my  hand  and  the  Great  Seal  of  the  State  in  the 
City  of  Charleston  this  tenth  day  of  April  in  the  Year  of  our 
Lord  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  eighty  seven  and  of 
the  Sovereignty  and  Independence  of  the  United  States  of 
America  the  Eleventh. 

Thomas  (Seal.)  Pinckney. 
By  His  Excellency's  Command 
Peter  Freneau  Secretary. 

State  of  South  Carolina 

By  His  Excellency  Thomas  Pinckney  Esquire,  Governor  and 
Commander  in  Chief  in  and  over  the  State  aforesaid. 
To  the  Honorable  Pierce  Butler  Esquire 

Greeting. 
By  Virtue  of  the  Power  and  authority  in  me  vested  by  the  Legis- 
lature of  this  State  in  their  Act  passed  the  eighth  day  of  March  last, 
I  do  hereby  Commission  you  the  said  Pierce  Butler,  as  one  of  the 
Deputies  appointed  from  this  State  to  meet  such  Deputies  or  Com- 
missioners as  may  be  appointed  and  authorized  by  other  of  the 
United  States  to  assemble  in  Convention  at  the  City  of  Philadelphia 
in  the  Month  of  May  next,  or  as  soon  thereafter  as  may  be  and  to 
join  with  with  such  Deputies  or  Commissioners  (they  being  duly 
authorised  and  empowered)  in  devising  and  discussing,  all  such 
Alterations,  Clauses,  Articles  and  Provisions  as  may  be  thought 
necessary  to  render  the  Foederal  Constitution  entirely  adequate 
to  the  actual  Situation  and  future  good  government  of  the  confed- 
erated States,  and  that  you  together  with  the  said  Deputies  or 
Cbmmissioners  or  a  Majority  of  them  who  shall  be  present  (provided 
the  State  be  not  represented  by  less  than  two)  do  join  in  reporting 
such  an  Act,  to  the  United  States  in  Congress  Assembled  as  when 


584     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

approved  and  agreed  to  by  them  and  duly  ratified  and  confirmed 

by  the  several  States  will  effectually  provide  for  the  Exigencies  of 

the  Union. 

Given  under  my  hand  and  the  Great  Seal  of  the  State  in  the 
City  of  Charleston  this  Tenth  day  of  April  in  the  Year  of  our 
Lord  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  Eighty  seven,  and  of 
the  Sovereignty  and  Independence  of  the  United  States  of 
America  the  Eleventh. 

TbouAs  (Seat)  Pinckmbt. 

By  His  Excellency's  Command 
Petsr  Frbneau  Secretary. 


MASSACHUSETTS 

CoiaiONWEALTH  OP  MA8aACHU8BTT8. 

(Seal  Appendt.)  By  His  Excellency  James  Bowdoin  Esquire 
Governor  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts. 

To  the  Honorable  Francis  Dana,  Elbridge  Gerry,  Nathaniel 
Gorham,  Rufus  Ring  and  Caleb  Strong  Esquires.    Greeting. 

Whereas  Congress  did  on  the  twenty  first  day  of  February  Ao  Di 
1787,  Resolve  ''that  in  the  opinion  of  Congress  it  is  expedient  that 
on  the  second  Monday  in  May  next  a  Convention  of  Delegates  who 
shall  have  been  appointed  by  the  several  States  to  be  held  at  Phila- 
delphia for  the  sole  and  express  purpose  of  revising  the  Articles  of 
Confederation  and  reporting  to  Congress  and  the  several  L^slaturet, 
such  alterations  and  provisions  therein  as  shall  when  agreed  to  in 
Congress,  and  confirmed  by  the  States  render  the  federal  Constitu- 
tion adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  government  and  the  preservation 
of  the  Union.*'  And  Whereas  the  General  Court  have  constituted 
and  appointed  you  their  Delegates  to  attend  and  represent  this 
Commonwealth  in  the  said  proposed  Convention;  and  have  by  a 
Resolution  of  theirs  of  the  tenth  of  March  last,  requested  me  to 
Commission  you  for  that  purpose. 

Now  therefore  Know  Ye,  that  in  pursuance  of  the  resolutions 
aforesaid,  I  do  by  these  presents,  commission  you  the  said  Francis 
Dana,  Elbridge  Gerry  Nathaniel  Gorham,  Rufus  King  &  Caleb 
Strong  Esquires  or  any  three  of  you  to  meet  such  Dd^ates  as  may 
be  appointed  by  the  other  or  any  of  the  other  States  in  the  Union 
to  meet  in  Cbnvention  at  Philadelphia  at  the  time  and  for  the 
purposes  aforesaid. 

In  Testimony  whereof  I  have  caused  the  Public  Seal  of  the  Com- 
monwealth aforesaid  to  be  hereunto  afiixed. 

Given  at  the  Council  Chamber  in  Boston  the  Ninth  day  of 


APPENDIX  B  585 

April  Ao  Dom.  1787  and  in  the  Eleventh  Year  of  the  Inde- 
pendence of  the  United  States  of  America. 

By  His  Excellency's  Command  ^ 

John  Avery  Junr.,  Secretary 


CONNECTICUT 

State  of  Connecticut. 

(Seal.)        At  a  General  Assembly  of  the  State  of  Connecti- 
cut in  America,  holden  at  Hartford  on  the  second 
Thursday  of  May,  Anno  Domini  1787. 

An  Act  for  appointing  Delegates  to  meet  in  a  Convention  of 
the  States  to  be  held  at  the  City  of  Philadelphia  on  the  second  Mon- 
day of  May  instant. 

Whereas  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  by  their  Act  of 
the  twenty  first  of  February  1787  have  recommended  that  on  the 
second  Monday  of  May  instant,  a  Convention  of  Delegates,  who 
shall  have  been  appointed  by  the  several  States,  be  held  at  Phila- 
delphia for  the  sole  and  express  purpose  of  revising  the  Articles  of 
Confederation. 

Be  it  enacted  by  the  Governor,  Council  and  Representatives  in 
General  Court  Assembled  and  by  the  Authority  of  the  same. 

That  the  Honorable  William  Samuel  Johnson,  Roger  Sherman, 
and  Oliver  Ellsworth  Esquires,  be  and  they  hereby  are  appointed 
Delegates  to  attend  the  said  Convention,  and  are  requested  to  pro- 
ceed to  the  City  of  Philadelphia  for  that  purpose  without  delay; 
And  the  said  Delegates,  and  in  case  of  sickness  or  accident,  such  one 
or  more  of  them  as  shall  actually  attend  the  said  Cbnvention,  is  and 
are  hereby  authorized  and  empowered  to  Represent  this  State  therein, 
and  to  confer  with  such  Delegates  appointed  by  the  several  States, 
for  the  purposes  mentioned  in  the  said  Act  of  Congress  that  may  be 
present  and  duly  empowered  to  act  in  said  Convention,  and  to  dis- 
cuss upon  such  Alterations  and  Provisions  agreeable  to  the  general 
principles  of  Republican  Government  as  they  shall  think  proper  to 
render  the  federal  Constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  Govern- 
ment and,  the  preservation  of  the  Union;  And  they  are  further 
directed,  pursuant  to  the  said  Act  of  Congress  to  report  such  altera- 
tions and  provisions  as  may  be  agreed  to  by  a  majority  of  the  United 
States  represented  in  Convention  to  the  Congress  of  the  United 
States,  and  to  the  General  Assembly  of  this  State. 

A  true  Copy  of  Record 
Examd 

By  George  Wyllys  Secy. 


586  RECORDS   OF  THE   FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

MARYLAND 

Maryland. 

An  Act  for  the  Appointment  of,  and  conferring  Powers  in  Dep- 
uties from  this  State  to  the  foederal  O)nvention. 

Be  it  enacted  by  the  General  Assembly  of  Maryland,  That  the 
Honorable  James  McHenry,  Daniel  of  Saint  Thomas  Jenifer,  Daniel 
Carroll,  John  Francis  Mercer  and  Luther  Martin  Esquires,  be  ap- 
pointed and  authorised  on  behalf  of  this  State,  to  meet  such  Dep- 
uties as  may  be  appointed  and  authorised  by  any  other  of  the  United 
States  to  assemble  in  Convention  at  Philadelphia  for  the  purpose 
of  revising  the  Foederal  System,  and  to  join  with  them  in  consider- 
ing such  Alterations  and  further  Provisions  as  may  be  necessary  to 
render  the  Foederal  Constitution  adequate  to  the  Exigencies  of  the 
Union  and  in  reporting  such  an  Act  for  that  purpose  to  the  United 
States  in  Congress  Assembled  as  when  agreed  to  by  them,  and  duly 
confirmed  by  the  several  States  will  eflFectually  provide  for  the  same, 
and  the  said  Deputies  or  such  of  them  as  shall  attend  the  said  Con- 
vention shall  have  full  Power  to  represent  this  State  for  the  Purposes 
aforesaid,  and  the  said  Deputies  are  hereby  directed  to  report  the 
Proceedings  of  the  said  Convention,  and  any  Act  agreed  to  therein, 
to  the  next  session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  this  State. 
By  the  Senate  May  26.  1787.^  By  the  House  of  Delegates 

Read  and  Assented  to  May  26d  1787. 

By  Order  J.  Dorsey  Qk.  Read  and  Assented  to 

True  Copy  from  the  Original  By  Order  Wm  Harwood  Qk. 

J.  Dorset  Qk.  Senate.  True  Copy  from  the  Original 

Wm  Harwood  Qk  Ho  Del. 
W.  Smallwood. 


ATTENDANCE  OF  DELEGATES. 

The  following  list  of  delegates  to  the  Federal  Convention,  with 
the  available  data  of  their  attendance,  has  been  compiled  from  the 
Records}    The  sources  of  information  are  so  readily  found  that 

*  The  delegates  had  been  previously  elected  by  the  legislature,  April  23-May  21. 
"The  assembly  had  voted  to  pay  the  delegates  as  delegates  in  congress  were  paid." 
(Steiner,  Life  and  Correspondence  of  James  McHenry,  98  note  i.) 

'  Although  the  number  of  delegates  who  were  at  any  time  present  in  Philadelphia 
amounu  to  fifty-five,  the  average  attendance  at  the  sessions  was  decidedly  smaller. 
The  editor  estimates  the  average  attendance  at  forty  or  less.  In  his  History  of  the 
Virginia  Federal  Contention  of  1788  (Vol.  I,  p.  34)  H.  B.  Grigsby  states  that  that 
body  consisted  of  one  hundred  and  seventy  members.  He  adds:  "It  was  more  than 
four  times  greater  than  the  Convention  which  formed  the  Federal  Constitution  when 
that  body  was  full,  and  it  exceeded  it,  as  it  ordinarily  was,  more  than  six  times." 


APPENDIX   B  587 

references  have  been  omitted,  but  in  a  footnote  attached  to  each 
name  have  been  given  references  to  those  items  in  the  Records  which 
may  throw  some  light  upon  the  character  of  the  delegate  in  ques- 
tion, or  upon  the  part  taken  by  him  in  the  Convention.^  The  names 
of  those  who  signed  the  Constitution  are  prefixed  with  numbers. 

1.  Baldwin,  Abraham,'  of  Georgia.    Attended  on  June  11,  and 

probably  regularly  thereafter. 

2.  Bassett,  Richard,'  of  Delaware.    Attended  as  early  as  May  21. 

3.  Bedford,  Gunning,'  of  Delaware.     First  attendance,  May  28. 

4.  Blair,  John,'  of  Virginia.    Attended  as  early  as  May  15. 

5.  Blount,  William,'  of  North  Carolina.    Attended  June  20— 

July  2;  August  7  and  thereafter.    He  was  present  in  Con- 
gress in  New  York,  July  4 — ^August  3. 

6.  Brearley,  David,*  of  New  Jersey.  Attended  as  early  as  May  25. 

7.  Broom,  Jacob,  of  Delaware.    Attended  as  early  as  May  21. 

8.  Butler,  Pierce,'  of  South  Carolina.    Attended  as   early  as 

May  25. 

9.  Carroll,  Daniel,'  of  Maryland.     First  attended  on  July  9. 

10.  Clymer,  George,  of  Pennsylvania.     Attended  May  28,  but 

probably  before,  although  absent  on  May  25. 
Davie,  William  Richardson,  of  North  Carolina.    Attended 
on  May  22  or  May  23;  left  on  August  13.    Approved  the 
Constitution. 

11.  Dayton,  Jonathan,*  of  New  Jersey.    Appointed,  June  5;  first 

attended  on  June  21. 

12.  Dickinson,  John,'  of  Delaware.    Attended  on  May  29.    His 

remarks  on  July  25  imply  previous  absence.  Absent  on 
September  15.  Read  signed  Dickinson's  name  to  the  Con- 
stitution. 
Ellsworth,  Oliver,'  of  Connecticut.  First  attended'  on  May 
28.  Was  present  in  Convention  August  23.  Was  in  New 
Haven  August  27.    Approved  the  Constitution. 

13.  Few,  Willlam,'  of  Georgia.     Attended  as  early  as  May  19. 

Present  in  Congress  in  New  York  July  4 — ^August  3.    Prob- 
ably returned  to  Convention  after  August  6. 

'  The  following  items  deal  with  the  delegates  in  general  rather  than  with  individ- 
uals: Appendix  A,  III,  XXXII,  XXXIV,  XXXVII,  XL,  XLVIII,  XLIX,  UX. 
LXXVI,  XCVIII,  CXIX,  CC?DCXIII,  CCXLIII,  CCCCI. 

•  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CLIX.  »  Appendix  A,  CXIX. 

•  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CCCLXXVII. 

»  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CLIX,  CCCLXXVI.  • 

•  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CLIX,  CCCXCIX. 


( 


588     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

14.  FrrzsiifONS,  Thomas,^  of  Peonsylvania.    Attended  on  May  25, 

and  probably  earlier. 

15.  Franklin,  Benjamin,'  of  Pennsylvania.    Attended  on  May 

28,  and  probably  earlier,  although  absent  on  May  25. 
Geuly,    Elbudge,'   of    Massachusetts.      First   attended  on 
May  29.    Absent  on  August  6.    Refused  to  sign  Constitu- 
tion. 

16.  Gilman,  Nicholas/  of  New  Hampshire.    Appointed  June  27; 

first  attended  on  July  23. 

17.  GoRHAic,  Nathaniel,^  of  Massachusetts.    Attended  on  May  28. 

18.  Hamilton,  Alexander,*  of  New  York.    Attended  on  May  18; 

left  Convention  June  29;  was  in  New  York  after  July  2; 
appears  to  have  been  in  Philadelphia  on  July  13;  attended 
Convention  August  13;  was  in  New  York  August  20 — Sep- 
tember 2. 

Houston,  Wiluam  Churchill,*  of  New  Jersey.  Attended  as 
early  as  May  25;  was  absent  on  June  6. 

H0U8TOUN,  WiLLiAif,^  of  Georgia.  Attended  first  on  June  i, 
and  probably  thereafter  until  July  23.  He  probably  left  on 
July  26  or  after  Few's  return. 

19.  Ingersoll,  Jared,^  of  Pennsylvania.    Attended  on  May  28, 

and  probably  earlier,  although  absent  on  May  25. 
20«  Jenifer,  Daniel  of  St.  Thomas,^  of  Maryland.    Commis- 
sioned on  May  26;  first  attended  on  June  2. 

21.  J0HN8ON,  William  Samuel,^  of  Connecticut.    Attended   on 

June  2,  and  thereafter. 

22.  Ring,  Rufus,^  of  Massachusetts.    Attended  as  early  as  May  21. 

23.  Langdon,  John,^  of  New  Hampshire.    Appointed  June  27;  first 

attended  on  July  23. 
Lansing,  John,*  of  New  York.    First  attended  on  June  2, 
though  he  may  have  been  present  before  May  25;  left  on  July 
10.    Opposed  to  the  Cbnstitution. 

24.  Livingston,  William,*  of  New  Jersey.    First  attended  on  June 

5 ;  absent  on  June  28,  and  July  3-19. 

*  Appendix  A,  CXIX. 

*  Records  of  September  17  (McHenry't  note),  and  Appendix  A,  XXXIV,CXIX, 

CLViii  (8),  CLix,  ccx:lxxx. 

>  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CXXVIII»  CLVII,  CLVIII  (iQ,  CUX,  CXOJCXXIX. 

*  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CLIX. 

•  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CLIX,  CCCXIII,  CCCXXV,  CCCLXVH. 

•  Appendix  A,  CCCLXXVI. 
V  Appendix  A,  CCCQL 

•  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CCCXXXIX,  CCCXCII. 
•Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CUX,  CCCLXXVI. 


APPENDIX  B  589 

McClurg,  jAMESy'  of  Virginia.  Attended  as  early  as  May  15; 
was  present  July  20;  and  absent  after  August  5.  Favored 
the  Constitution. 

25.  McHenry,  James,*   of  Maryland.    Commissioned    May  26; 

attended  May  28-31;  left  on  June  i;  present  August  6  and 
thereafter. 

26.  Madison,  James,  Jr.,*  of  Virginia.    Attended  on  May  14  and 

thereafter. 

Martin,  Alexander,*  of  North  Carolina.  Attended  as  early 
as  May  25;  left  in  the  latter  part  of  August. 

Martin,  Luther,^  of  Maryland.  Commissioned  May  26;  first 
attended  June  9;  absent  August  7-12;  left  Convention  Sep- 
tember 4.    Opposed  to  the  Constitution. 

Mason,  George,*  of  Virginia.  Attended  on  May  17  and  there- 
after.   Refused  to  sign  the  Constitution. 

Mercer,  John  Francis,  of  Maryland.  First  attended  Aug- 
ust 6;  last  recorded  attendance  August  17.  Opposed  to  the 
Constitution. 

27.  Mifflin,  Thomas,*  of  Pennsylvania.    Attended  on  May  28, 

and  probably  before,  although  absent  on  May  25. 

28.  Morris,  Gouverneur,'  of  Pennsylvania.    Attended  on  May 

25,  and  probably  before;  he  left  the  Convention  a  few  days 
after  and  was  absent  until  July  2. 

29.  Morris,  Robert,*  of   Pennsylvania.    Attended  May  25,  and 

probably  before. 

30.  Paterson,  William,*  of  New  Jersey.    Attended  as  early  as 

May  25,  and  thereafter  until  July  23.  There  is  no  evidence 
of  his  attendance  after  that  date.  August  21,  Brearley  wrote 
urging  him  to  return.  He  probably  returned  to  sign  the 
Constitution. 
Pierce,  William,*  of  Georgia.  Attended  May  31;  absent  after 
July  I.    He  favored  the  Constitution. 

31.  PiNCKNEY,  Charles,*  of  South  Carolina.    Attended  May  17 

and  thereafter. 

^  Records  of  July  17  (Madison's  note)  and  Appendix  A,  CXIX. 

'Appendix  A,  CXIX. 

» Appendix  A.  CXIX,  CLIX,  CCCXXV. 

« Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CLIX,  CLXXXIX,  CCCLXXVII,  CCCXai. 

•  Appendix  A,  CXIX,    CXXXVII,    CLI,    CLVII,    CLVIII    (16),   CXaV, 
CCCXVII. 

•  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CLIX. 

»  Appendix  A,  CXVII,  CXIX,  CLDC,  CCCLXXVIII,  CCCLXXIX,  CCCXCV. 

•  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CCCLXXVI. 
•Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CXXXV,  CCCLXXXIII. 


590     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

32.  PiNCKNEY,  Charles   Cotesworth,'  of  South  Carolina.    At- 

tended at  least  as  early  as  May  25,  and  thereafter. 
Randolph,  Edmund,^  of  Virginia.    Attended  May  15  and  there- 
after.    He  refused  to  sign  the  Constitution. 

33.  Read,  George,'  of  Delaware.    Attended  at  least  as  early  as 

May  19. 

34.  RuTLEDGE,  John,'  of  South  Carolina.    Attended  on  May  17, 

and  thereafter. 

35.  Sherman,    Roger,*    of    Connecticut.    Appointed    May    17; 

attended  May  30  and  thereafter. 

36.  Spaight,  Richard  Dobbs,*  of  North  Carolina.    Attended  as 

early  as  May  19,  and  thereafter. 
Strong,  Caleb,*  of   Massachusetts.    Attended  on   May  28; 
was  present  on  August  15,  but  left  before  August  27.    He 
favored  the  Constitution. 

37.  Washington,  George,^  of   Virginia.    Attended  on   May  14 

and  thereafter. 

38.  Williamson,  Hugh,*  of  North  Carolina.    Attended  as  early  as 

May  25,  and  thereafter. 

39.  Wilson,  Jaiies,^  of  Pennsylvania.    Attended  as  early  as  May 

25  (probably  before)  and  thereafter. 

Wythe,  George,*  of  Virginia.  Attended  as  early  as  May  15; 
left  Convention  June  4;  resigned  June  16.  He  approved 
the  Constitution. 

Yates,  Robert,*  of  New  York.  Attended  May  18;  left  Con- 
vention July  10.    Opposed  to  the  Constitution. 

1  Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CUX. 

*  Appendix  A,  CXIX. 

•  Appendix  A,  XXXV,  CXIX. 

« Appendix  A,  XVII,  CXIX,  CLVIII  (8),  CCLXXXV,  CCXCIII,  CCCLIX. 

'  Appendix  A,  CLIX. 

•Appendix  A,  CXIX,  CCCXXXIX,   CCCLVII,   CCCLXV,   CCCLXXVII, 

cccLxxxviii,  cccxai. 


PUNS   OF  GOVERNMENT  SUBMITTED   TO 

THE  CONVENTION 

APPENDIX  C 

THE  VIRGINIA  PLAN  OR  RANDOLPH  RESOLUTIONS 

APPENDIX  D 
THE  PINCKNEY  PLAN 

APPENDIX  E 

THE  NEW  JERSEY  PLAN  OR  PATERSON  RESOLUTIONS 

APPENDIX  F 

THE  HAMILTON  PLAN 


APPENDIX  C 

THE  VIRGINIA  PLAN  OR  RANDOLPH  RESOLUTIONS. 

As  their  state  had  taken  the  lead  in  calling  the  Federal  Conven- 
tion, the  Virginia  delegates  felt  a  sense  of  responsibility.  They 
accordingly  prepared  an  outline  of  a  new  government,  which  was 
presented  on  May  29  in  the  form  of  a  series  of  resolutions  by  Ran- 
dolph, the  governor  of  the  state.^  These  resolutions,  commonly 
known  as  the  Randolph  Resolutions,  but  more  properly  designated 
as  the  Virginia  Plan,  became  the  basis  of  the  work  of  the  Con- 
vention and,  expanded  and  developed,  eventually  grew  into  the 
Constitution  as  adopted. 

In  the  later  stages  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Convention  the 
delegates  were  provided  with  printed  copies  of  the  more  important 
documents,  but  in  the  earlier  stages  the  delegates  were  forced  to 
make  their  own  copies.  As  the  importance  of  the  Virginia  Plan  was 
early  recognized  and  was  the  subject  of  discussion  for  two  weeks  in 
a  committee  of  the  whole  house,  not  a  few  of  the  delegates  made 
copies  of  this  plan,  of  which  several  are  still  in  existence,  —  e.g., 
Madison's,  Washington's,  Brearley's,  McHenry's  et  al.  The  orig- 
inal document  is  missing,*  and  the  various  copies  differ  among  them- 
selves. There  are  inevitable  slight  variations  in  wording,  spelling, 
and  punctuation,  but  the  most  significant  differences  are  found  in 
the  sixth  and  ninth  resolutions. 

The  sixth  resolution  reads:  "That  the  National  Legislature  ought 
to  be  empowered  ...  to  negative  all  laws  passed  by  the  several 
states,  contravening  in  the  opinion  of  the  National  Legislature 
the  articles  of  Union",  and  at  this  point  some  of  the  texts  add  "or 
any  treaty  subsisting  under  the  authority  of  the  Union".  The  rec- 
ords show  clearly  that  this  additional  clause  was  not  in  the  original, 
as  it  was  inserted  on  the  motion  of  Franklin,  May  31.'  Madison's 
copy  gives  the  correct  reading. 

In  Madison's  copy  the  ninth  resolution  reads: 

"9.  Resd.  that  a  National  Judiciary  be  established  to  consist 
of  one  or  more  supreme  tribunals,  and  of  inferior  tribunals  to  be 
chosen  by  the  National  Legislature,  .  .  .  that  the  jurisdiction  of 
the  inferior  tribunals  shall  be  to  hear  &  determine  in  the  first  instance, 

^  See  Rfcords^  May  29,  note  8.  *  See  Records^  May  29,  note  3. 

*See  Records^  May  31. 

593 


594     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

and  of  the  supreme  tribunal  to  hear  and  determine  in  the  dernier 
resort,  all  piracies  &  felonies  on  the  high  seas,  captures  from  an 
enemy;''  etc.  The  other  texts  vary  in  the  reading  of  the  second, 
third,  and  fourth  clauses,  either  by  omitting  them  altogether,  or  by 
modifying  or  omitting  one  or  more  of  them.  Mr.  Jameson  argues 
that  the  specification  of  supreme  and  inferior  tribunals  could  not 
have  been  in  the  original  document  because  it  was  voted,  on  June  4, 
^'to  add  these  words  to  the  first  clause  of  the  ninth  resolution,  namely: 
*To  consist  of  one  supreme  tribunal,  and  of  one  or  more  inferior 
tribunals.'''  In  support  of  this  he  cites  the  authority  of  both  the 
Journal  and  Madison's  notes.^  By  referring  to  the  Records  of  that 
date,  however,  it  will  be  seen  that  Madison's  entry  was  copied  from 
Journal  and  this  evidence,  therefore,  rests  upon  the  somewhat 
doubtful  authority  of  the  Journal  alone.  In  the  next  place,  it  will 
be  noticed  that  the  wording  of  June  4  is  slightly  different  from  that 
of  the  original  resolution  (as  reported  by  Madison),  and  so  the  phrase 
"to  add"  might  well  be  used  instead  of  "to  accept"  or  "to  agree 
to".  And  finally,  the  texts  that  in  other  respects  prove  to  be  the 
most  accurate  —  Madison's,  Washington's,  McHenry's  —  all  agree 
in  the  wording  of  this  resolution. 

The  same  reasoning  applies  to  the  latter  part  of  the  resolution 
respecting  the  jurisdiction  of  the  inferior  and  superior  tribunals, 
which  Mr.  Jameson  argues  is  corrupted  in  the  Madison  copy. 

In  the  editor's  judgment,  then,  the  Madison  text  of  the  Vir- 
ginia Plan  or  Randolph  Resolutions  as  given  in  the  Records  (May 
29)  is  an  accurate  copy  of  the  original. 

>  Studiiif  pp.  105-106. 


APPENDIX  D 

THE   PINCKNEY  PLAN 

On  May  29,  after  Randolph  had  presented  the  Vli^ginia  Plan  to 
the  Convention,  "Mr.  Charles  Pinckney  .  .  .  laid  before  the  House 
for  their  consideration,  the  draught  of  a  foederal  government  to  be 
agreed  upon  between  the  free  and  independent  States  of  America." 
This  plan  was  referred  to  the  Committee  of  the  Whole  House,  which 
was  to  take  the  Virginia  Plan  into  consideration.  Nothing  more  is 
recorded  of  it,  except  that  on  July  24  the  Committee  of  the  Whole 
was  formally  discharged  from  further  consideration  of  it  and  it  was 
referred  to  the  Committee  of  Detail  which  was  appointed  to  draft 
a  constitution  upon  the  basis  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Convention 
at  that  date. 

When  John  Quincy  Adams  was  preparing  the  Journal  for  pub- 
lication, the  Pinckney  Plan  was  not  to  be  found  among  the  secre- 
tary's papers,  and  Pinckney  himself  was  appealed  to  for  a  copy  of 
the  missing  document.^    In  response  Pinckney  stated: 

"I  have  already  informed  you  I  have  several  rough  draughts 
of  the  Constitution  I  proposed  &  that  they  are  all  substantially  the 
same  differing  only  in  words  &  the  arrangement  of  the  Articles  — 
at  the  distance  of  nearly  thirty  two  Years  it  is  impossible  for  me  now 
to  say  which  of  the  4  or  5  draughts  I  have  was  the  one  but  enclosed 
I  send  you  the  one  I  believe  was  it  —  I  repeat  however  that  they  are 
substantially  the  same  differing  only  in  form  &  unessentials '*.* 

Adams  accepted  this  statement  and  printed  the  following  docu- 
ment: — 

We  the  People  of  the  States  of  New  Hampshire  Massachusetts 
Rhode  Island  &  Providence  Plantations  — Connecticut  New  York 
New  Jersey  Pennyslvania  Delaware  Maryland  Virginia  North  Car- 
oline South  Carolina  &  Georgia  do  ordain,  declare  &  establish  the 
following  Constitution  for  the  Government  of  Ourselves  &  Posterity. 

Article  i: 

The  Stile  of  This  Government  shall  be  The  United  States  of  America 
&  The  Government  shall  consist  of  supreme  legislative  Executive 
and  judicial  Powers — 

» Appendix  A,  CCCXXVIII.  •  Appendix  A,  CCCXXVI. 

595 


596     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

2 

The  Legislative  Power  shall  be  vested  in  a  Congress  to  consist  of 
Two  separate  Houses — One  to  be  called  The  House  of  Delegates  & 
the  other  the  Senate  who  shall  meet  on  the         Day  of  in 

every  Year 

3 
The  members  of  the  House  of  Delegates  shall  be  chosen  every 
Year  by  the  people  of  the  several  States  &  the  qualifications  of  the 
electors  shall  be  the  same  as  those  of  the  Electors  in  the  several 
States  for  their  legislatures — each  member  shall  have  been  a  citizen 
of  the  United  States  for  Years  — shall  be  of         Yea    of  age 

&  a  resident  of  the  State  he  is  chosen  for — ^until  a  census  of  the  people 
shall  be  taken  in  the  manner  herein  aftermentioned  the  House  of 
Delegates  shall  consist  of  to  be  chosen  from  the  different  states 

in  the  following  proportions  *  —  &  the  Legislature  shall  hereafter 
regulate  the  number  of  delegates  by  the  number  of  inhabitants 
according  to  the  Provisions  herein  after  made  at  the  rate  of  one  for 
every  thousand  —  all  money  bills  of  every  kind  shall  originate 

in  the  house  of  Delegates  &  shall  not  be  altered  by  the  Senate  — 
The  House  of  Delegates  shall  exclusively  possess  the  power  of  im- 
peachment &  shall  choose  it's  own  Officers  &  Vacancies  therein  shall 
be  supplied  by  the  executive  authority  of  the  State  in  the  representa- 
tion from  which  they  shall  happen  — 

4 
The  Senate  shall  be  elected  &  chosen  by  the  House  of  Delegates 
which  house  immediately  after  their  meeting  shall  choose  by  ballot 
Senators  from  among  the  Citizens  &  residents  of  New  Hamp- 
shire, from  among  those  of  Massachusetts.  .  from  among 
those  of  Rhode  Island  from  among  those  of  Connecticut.  from 
among  those  of  New  York.  from  among  those  of  New  Jersey 
from  among  those  of  Pennsylvanie  from  among  those  of  Dela- 
ware—  from  among  those  of  Maryland.  from  among  those 
of  Vii^ginia  from  among  those  of  North  Caroline  from  among 
those  of  South  Caroline      &        from  among  those  of  Georgia  — 

The  Senators  chosen  from  New  Hampshire  Massachusetts  Rhode 
Island  &  Connecticut  shall  form  one  class  —  those  from  New  York 

*(In  margin:] 
for  New  Hampshire.  for  MaMachusetti  for  New  York 

for  Rhode  Island  —  for  Connecticut.  for  Delaware 

for  New  Jersey.  for  Pennsylvania.  for  North  Caroline 

for  Maryld:  for  Virginie.  for  Georgia 

for  South  Carolina — 


APPENDIX  D  597 

New  Jersey  Pennsylvanie  &  Delaware  one  class  —  &  those  from 
Maryland  Virginia  North  Caroline  South  Caroline  &  Georgia  one 
class  — 

The  House  of  Delegates  shall  number  these  Qasses  one  two  & 
three  &  fix  the  times  of  their  service  by  Lot  —  the  first  Class  shall 
serve  for  Years  —  the  second  for  Years  &  the  third  for 

Years  —  as  their  Times  of  service  expire  the  House  of  Dele- 
gates shall  fill  them  up  by  Elections  for  Years  &  they  shall  fill 
all  Vacancies  that  arise  from  death  or  resignation  for  the  Time  of 
service  remaining  of  the  members  so  dying  or  resigning  — 

Each  Senator  shall  be  Years  of  age  at  leest  —  shall  have 
been  a  Citizen  of  the  United  States  4  Years  before  his  Election 
&  shall  be  a  resident  of  the  state  he  is  chosen  from 

The  Senate  shall  choose  it's  own  Officers 

5 
Each  State  shall  prescribe  the  time  &  manner  of  holding  Elections 
by  the  People  for  the  house  of  Delegates  &  the  House  of  Delegates 
shall  be  the  judges  of  the  Elections  returns  &  Qualifications  of  their 
members 

In  each  House  a  Majority  shall  constitute  a  Quorum  to  do  busi- 
iness  —  Freedom  of  Speech  &  Debate  in  the  legislature  shall  not  be 
impeached  or  Questioned  in  any  place  out  of  it  &  the  Members  of 
both  Houses  shall  in  all  cases  except  for  Treason  Felony  or  breach  of 
the  Peace  be  free  from  arrest  during  their  attendance  at  Congress 
&  in  going  to  &  returning  from  it  —  both  houses  shall  keep  journals 
of  their  Proceedings  &  publish  them  except  on  secret  occasions  & 
the  yeas  &  nays  may  be  entered  thereon  at  the  desire  of  one  of 

the  members  present. 

Neither  house  without  the  consent  of  the  other  shall  adjourn  for  more 
than  days  nor  to  any  Place  but  where  they  are  sitting 

t  The  members  of  each  house  shall  not  be  eligible  to  or  capable 
of  holding  any  office  under  the  Union  during  the  time  for  which  they 
have  been  respectively  elected  nor  the  members  of  the  Senate  for 
one  Year  after  — 

The  members  of  each  house  shall  be  paid  for  their  services  by 
the  State's  which  they  represent  — 

Every  bill  which  shall  have  passed  the  Legislature  shall  be  pre- 
sented to  the  President  of  the  United  States  for  his  revision  —  if  he 
approves  it  he  shall  sign  it  —  but  if  he  does  not  approve  it  he  shall 
return  it  with  his  objections  to  the  house  it  originated  in,  which 
house  if  two  thirds  of  the  members  present,  notwithstanding  the 
Presidents  objections  agree  to  pass  it,  shall  send  it  to  the  other 


598     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

house  with  the  Presidents  Objections,  where  if  two  thirds  of  the 
members  present  also  agree  to  pass  it,  the  same  shall  become  a  law  — 
&  all  bills  sent  to  the  President  &  not  returned  by  him  within 
days  shall  be  laws  unless  the  Legislature  by  their  adjournment 
prevent  their  return  in  which  case  they  shall  not  be  laws 

6 

The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  have  the  power  to  lay  & 

collect  Taxes  Duties  Imposts  &  Excises 

To  regulate  Commerce  with  all  nations  &  among  the  several  states.  — 

To  borrow  money  &  emit  bills  of  Credit 

To  establish  Post  Offices 

To  raise  armies 

To  build  &  equip  Fleets 

To  pass  laws  for  arming  organizing  &  disciplining  the  Militia  of  the 

United  States.  — 

To  subdue  a  rebellion  in  any  state  on  application  of  its  legislature 
To  coin  money  &  regulate  the  Value  of  all  coins  &  fix  the  Standard 
of  Weights  &  measures 

To  provide  such  Dock  Yards  &  arsenals  8c  erect  such  fortifications 
as  may  be  necessary  for  the  United  States  &  to  exercise  exclusive 
Jurisdiction  therein 
To  appoint  a  Treasurer  by  ballott 
To  constitute  Tribunals  inferior  to  the  Supreme  Court 
To  establish  Post  &  military  Roads 

To  establish  and  provide  for  a  national  University  at  the  Seat  of 
the  Government  of  the  United  States  — 
To  establish  uniform  rules  of  Naturalization 

To  provide  for  the  establishment  of  a  Seat  of  Government  for  the  1 
United  States  not  exceeding  miles  square  in  which  they  shall  > 

have  exclusive  jurisdiction  J 

To  make  rules  concerning  Captures  from  an  Enemy 
To  declare  the  law  &  Punishment  of  piracies  &  felonies  at  sea  &  of ) 
counterfieting  Coin  &  of  all  offences  against  the  Laws  of  Nations    ) 

To  call  forth  the  aid  of  the  Militia  to  execute  the  laws  of  the  Union 
enforce  treaties  suppress  insurrections  &  repel  invasions 

And  to  make  all  laws  for  carrying  the  foregoing  powers  into 
execution.  — 

The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  have  the  Power  to 
declare  the  Punishment  of  Treason  which  shall  consist  only  in  levy- 
ing War  against  the  United  States  or  any  of  them  or  in  adhering  to 
their  Enemies.  —  No  person  shall  be  convicted  of  Treason  but  by 
the  Testimony  of  two  Witnesses.  — 


APPENDIX  D  599 

The  proportions  of  direct  Taxation  shall  be  regulated  by  the 
whole  number  of  inhabitants  of  every  description  which  number 
shall  within  Years  after  the  first  meeting  of  the  Legislature  & 

within  the  term  of  every  Years  after  be  taken  in  the  manner  to 

be  prescribed  by  the  legislature 

No  Tax  shall  be  laid  on  articles  exported  from  the  States  —  nor 
capitation  tax  but  in  proportion  to  the  Census  before  directed 

All  Laws  regulating  Commerce  shall  require  the  assent  of  two 
thirds  of  the  members  present  in  each  house  — 

The  United  States  shall  not  grant  any  title  of  Nobility 

The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  pass  no  Law  on  the  sub- 
ject of  Religion,  nor  touching  or  abridging  the  Liberty  of  the  Press 
nor  shall  the  Privilege  of  the  Writ  of  Habeas  Corpus  ever  be  sus- 
pended except  in  case  of  Rebellion  or  Invasion 

All  acts  made  by  the  Legislature  of  the  United  States  pursuant 
to  this  Constitution  &  all  Treaties  made  under  the  authority  of  the 
United  States  shall  be  the  Supreme  Law  of  the  Land  &  all  Judges 
shall  be  bound  to  consider  them  as  such  in  their  decisions 

7 

The  Senate  shall  have  the  sole  &  exclusive  power  to  declare  War 
&  to  make  treaties  &  to  appoint  Ambassadors  &  other  Ministers  to 
Foreign  nations  &  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court 

They  shall  have  the  exclusive  power  to  regulate  the  manner 
of  deciding  all  disputes  8c  Controversies  now  subsisting  or  which  may 
arise  between  the  States  respecting  Jurisdiction  or  Territory 

8 

The  Executive  Power  of  the  United  States  shall  be  vested  in  a  Pres- 
ident of  the  United  States  of  America  which  shall  be  his  stile  &  his 

title  shall  be  His  Excellency He  shall  be  elected  for         Years 

&  shall  be  reeligible 

He  shall  from  time  give  information  to  the  Legislature  of  the 
state  of  the  Union  &  recommend  to  their  consideration  the  meas- 
ures he  may  think  necessary  —  he  shall  take  care  that  the  laws  of 
the  United  States  be  duly  executed:  he  shall  commission  all  the 
Officers  of  the  United  States  &  except  as  to  Ambassadors  other  min- 
isters &  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  he  shall  nominate  &  with  the 
consent  of  the  Senate  appoint  all  other  Officers  of  the  United 
States —  He  shall  recieve  public  Ministers  from  foreign  nations 
&  may  correspond  with  the  Executives  of  the  different  states  — 
He  shall  have  power  to  grant  pardons  &  reprieves  except  in  impeach- 
ments —    He  shall  be  Commander  in  chief  of  the  army  8c  navy  of 


600     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTIGN 

the  United  States  &  of  the  Nfilitia  of  the  several  states  &  shall 
recieve  a  compensation  which  shall  not  be  increased  or  diminished 
during  his  continuance  in  office  —  At  Entering  on  the  Duties  of  his 
office  he  shall  take  an  Oath  to  faithfully  execute  the  duties  of  a 
President  of  the  United  States  —  He  shall  be  removed  from  his 
office  on  impeachment  by  the  house  of  Delegates  &  Conviction  in 
the  supreme  Court  of  Treason  bribery  or  Corruption  —  In  case  of 
his  removal  death  resignation  or  disability  The  President  of  the 
Senate  shall  exercise  the  duties  of  his  office  until  another  President 
be  chosen  —  &  in  case  of  the  death  of  the  President  of  the  Senate 
the  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Delegates  s  shall  do  so 

9 
The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  have  the  Power  &  it  shall 
be  their  duty  to  establish  such  Courts  of  Law  Equity  &  Admiralty  as 
shall  be  necessary  —  the  Judges  of  these  Courts  shall  hold  their 
Offices  during  good  behaviour  &  recieve  a  compensation  which  shall 
not  be  increased  or  diminished  during  their  continuance  in  office  — 
One  of  these  Courts  shall  be  termed  the  Supreme  Court  whose  Juris- 
^  diction  shall  extend  to  all  cases  arising  under  the  laws  of  the  United 
States  or  affecting  ambassadors  other  public  Ministers  &  Consuls — 
To  the  trial  of  impeachments  of  Officers  of  the  United  States  — 
To  all  cases  of  Admiralty  &  maritime  jurisdiction  —  In  cases  of 
impeachment  affecting  Ambassadors  &  other  public  Ministers  the 
Jurisdiction  shall  be  original  &  in  all  the  other  cases  appellate  — 

All  Criminal  offenses,  (except  in  cases  of  impeachment)  shall 
be  tried  in  the  State  where  they  shall  be  committed  —  the  trial  shall 
be  open  &  public  &  be  by  Jury  — 

10 

Immediately  after  the  first  census  of  the  people  of  United  States  the 

House  of  Delegates  shall  apportion  the  Senate  by  electing  for  each 

State  out  of  the  Citizens  resident  therein  One  Senator  for  every 

members  such  state  shall  have  in  the  house  of  Del^ates  — 

Each  State  however  shall  be  entitled  to  have  at  least  one  member 

in  the  Senate 

II 

No  State  shall  grant  letters  of  marque  &  reprisal  or  enter  into  treaty 
or  alliance  or  confederation  nor  grant  any  title  of  nobility  nor  with- 
out the  Consent  of  the  Legislature  of  the  United  Sutes  lay  any 
impost  on  imports  —  nor  keep  Troops  or  Ships  of  War  in  Time  of 
peace  —  nor  enter  into  compacts  with  other  states  or  foreign  powers 
or  emit  bills  of  Credit  or  make  any  thing  but  Gold  Silver  or  Copper 


APPENDIX  D  60I 

a  Tender  in  payment  of  debts  nor  engage  in  War  except  for  self 
defence  when  actually  invaded  or  the  danger  of  invasion  is  so  great 
as  not  to  admit  of  a  delay  until  the  Government  of  the  United  States 
can  be  informed  thereof  —  &  to  render  these  prohibitions  effectual 
the  Legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  have  the  power  to  revise 
the  laws  of  the  several  states  that  may  be  supposed  to  infringe  the 
Powers  exclusively  delegated  by  the  Constitution  to  Congress  &  to 
negative  &  annul  such  ds  do 

12 

The  Citizens  of  each  state  shall  be  entitled  to  all  privileges  &  immun- 
ities of  Citizens  in  the  several  states  — 

Any  person  charged  with  Crimes  in  any  State  fleeing  from  Justice 
to  another  shall  on  demand  of  the  Executive  of  the  State  from  which 
he  fled  be  delivered  up  8c  removed  to  the  State  having  jurisdiction 
of  the  Offense  — 

Full  faith  shall  be  given  in  each  State  to  the  acts  of  the  Legislature 

&  to  the  records  &  judicial  Proceedings  of  the  Courts  8c  Magistrates 

of  every  State 

14 

The  Legislature  shall  have  power  to  admit  new  States  into  the  Union 

on  the  same  terms  with  the  original  States  provided  two  thirds  of 

the  members  present  in  both  houses  agree 

IS 

On  the  application  of  the  legislature  of  a  State  the  United  States 
shall  protect  it  against  domestic  insurrections 

16 

If  Two  Thirds  of  the  Legislatures  of  the  States  apply  for  the  same 
The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  call  a  Convention  for 
the  purpose  of  amending  the  Constitution  —  Or  should  Congress 
with  the  Consent  of  Two  thirds  of  each  house  propose  to  the  States 
amendments  to  the  same  —  the  agreement  of  Two  Thirds  of  the 
Legislatures  of  the  States  shall  be  sufficient  to  make  the  said  amend- 
ments Parts  of  the  Constitution 

The  Ratifications  of  the  Conventions  of  States  shall  be 

sufficient    for    organizing    this    Constitution * 


Only  a  few  of  the  members  of  the  Convention  were  still  living 
when  the  Journal  was  published  in  1819,  but  two  of  those,  King 
and  Madison,  expressed  privately  their  conviction  that  the  docu- 

^  [Endoned:]  in  Mr.  Pinckney's  letter  of  Dec  30,  18 19. 


602      RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CON\'^ENTION 

ment  printed  in  the  Journal  was  not  the  same  as  that  originally 
presented  by  Pinckney  in  1787.^  Madison  also  prepared  a  somewhat 
elaborate  criticism  to  be  appended  to  the  document^  which  he  evi- 
dently intended  to  include  in  his  Debates.' 

It  does  not  seem  necessary  in  this  connection  to  do  anything 
more  than  point  out  the  lines  of  evidence  followed  in  disproving  the 
document  in  question.  In  the  first  place,  the  writing,  the  ink,  and 
the  paper  of  the  document  are  the  same  as  the  letter  accompanying 
it  —  the  paper  bearing  the  watermark  of  1797  —  so  that  it  cannot 
be  the  original,  but  was  probably  copied  or  prepared  in  1818.  In 
the  second  place,  its  provisions,  in  several  important  particulars, 
are  directly  at  variance  with  Pinckney's  opinions  as  expressed  in 
the  G}nvention.  In  the  next  place,  the  document  embodies  several 
provisions  that  were  only  reached  after  weeks  of  bitter  disputes  — 
compromises  and  details,  that  it  was  impossible  for  any  human  being 
to  have  forecast  accurately.  And  finally,  shortly  after  the  Conven- 
tion was  over,  Pinckney  printed  for  private  circulation  a  pamphlet 
entitled  *^  Observations  on  the  Plan  of  Government  submitted  to  the 
Federal  Convention^  by  Mr.  Charles  Pinckney",  etc.,'  which  seems  to 
have  been  a  speech  prepared  in  advance  to  be  delivered  in  presenting 
his  plan  to  the  Convention,^  but  which  never  was  delivered,  owing 
probably  to  lack  of  time.  This  speech  outlines  the  principal  fea- 
tures of  the  plan  which  differ  radically  from  the  provisions  of  the 
document  sent  to  John  Quincy  Adams. 

The  problem  then  presents  itself  to  determine  as  accurately  as 
possible  what  Pinckney's  original  plan  was.  In  1786,  Pinckney 
was  a  delegate  to  the  Continental  Congress  and  obtained  the  appoint- 
ment of  a  grand  committee,  of  which  he  became  a  member,  to 
recommend  amendments  to  the  Articles  of  Confederation.  He  was 
the  chairman  of  a  sub-committee  of  three  that  drew  up  a  report, 
which  was  accepted  by  the  grand  committee,  and  which  proposed 
seven  important  changes  or  new  articles  to  the  original  Articles  of 
Confederation.  George  Bancroft  in  his  History  of  the  Constitution^ 
remarks  that  "these  amended  resolutions  may  well  be  taken  as  rep- 
resenting the  intentions  of  Charles  Pinckney  at  that  time'\'  Here, 
at  least,  is  a  starting-point,  and  as  one  proceeds  in  this  investigation 
he  becomes  more  and  more  convinced  that  Pinckney's  working  motive 
in  his  original  proposals  in  the  Federal  Convention  was  a  reform  of 

» Appendix  A.  CCCLXVII-CCCLXIX,  CCCLXXXVII,  CCCXCIII,  CCCXCVI. 

•  Appendix  A.  CCCLXXXI-CCCLXXXV. 
» Appendix  A,  CXXIX. 

*  A.  C  McLaughlin,  American  Historical  Reviiw,  July,  1904.  DC,  735-741. 
•Vol.  I,  p.  258-263. 


APPENDIX   D  603 

the  Articles  of  Confederation.^  These  amendments,  therefore, 
which  he  endorsed  in  1786  and  probably  originated,  are  not  merely 
a  starting-point,  they  show  somewhat  of  the  character  of  the  Pinck- 
ney  Plan. 

In  the  debates  of  the  Federal  Convention  itself,  during  the  dis- 
cussion of  the  Randolph  Resolutions  in  the  Committee  of  the  Whole 
—  that  is,  during  approximately  the  first  two  weeks  of  the  Conven- 
tion's work  —  Pinckney's  attitude  upon  the  various  questions  may 
be  taken  as  fairly  representing  his  original  ideas,  especially  when  his 
position  was  opposed  to  that  of  the  leaders  or  to  the  general  sentiment 
of  the  Convention.  His  later  attitude  was  undoubtedly  modified 
by  the  development  of  proceedings  and  can  only  be  used  with  cau- 
tion, although  some  suggestions  may  be  obtained  therefrom.' 

While  the  delegates  were  gathering  in  Philadelphia  and  were 
waiting  for  a  sufficient  number  to  commence  proceedings,  George 
Read,  of  Delaware,  wrote  to  his  colleague  Dickinson  that  he  was 
"in  possession  of  a  copied  draft  of  a  federal  system  intended  to  be 
proposed,"  and  he  outlined  a  few  of  the  conspicuous  features.  These 
do  not  at  all  correspond  to  the  features  of  the  Virginia  Plan,  but 
they  do  tally  exactly  with  certain  characteristics  of  the  Pinckney 
Plan  that  have  been  obtained  from  the  study  of  the  debates.  There 
can  be  no  doubt  that  it  is  the  latter  plan  that  is  here  described, 
especially  as  we  have  on  other  authority  that  Pinckney  prepared 
his  plan  in  advance  of  his  going  to  Philadelphia.'  From  this  let- 
ter of  Read's  we  get  a  few  additional  particulars,  and  the  helpful 
suggestion  that "  some  of  its  principal  features  are  taken  from  the  New 
York  system  of  government."  * 

The  pamphlet  entitled  ^^Observations"  must  be  used  with  some 
caution,  as  it  was  not  printed  until  after  the  Convention  was  over, 
and  Pinckney  may  have  modified  some  of  his  statements  or  added 
somewhat  to  his  speech  as  originally  prepared. 

And  there  is  also  the  draft  sent  to  John  Quincy  Adams  in  181 8. 
In  the  light  of  the  documents  already  noticed,  it  is  established  beyond 
all  doubt  that  this  draft  does  not  represent  "Pinckney's  original  plan 
with  some  additions  and  modifications."    It  does  not  even  have 

^See  Mr.  McLaughlin's  confirmation  of  this  position,  American  Historical 
Review,  loc,  cit, 

*Mr.  Jameson  has  made  a  careful  analysis  of  this  material;  see  his  Studies 
in  the  History  of  the  Federal  Convention  of  1787^  pp.  1 17-120. 

»"*W.  S.  E.  of  S.  C  (W.  S.  Elliot,  grandson  of  Pinckney)  in  DeBow's  Review 
XXXIV,  63,  sajrs:  This  draft  was  made  in  Charieston  before  the  writer  thereof  had 
any  opportunity  of  conference  with  his  co-workers,  and  carried  with  him  to  the  Con- 
vention.'"   Jameson,  Studies,  p.  120,  note. 

*  Appendix  A,  XVII. 


604     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

Pinckney's  original  plan  as  its  basis.  Not  only  does  it  radically 
difFer  from  the  original  plan  in  several  essential  matters,  it  is  con- 
structed on  an  entirely  different  framework.  Indeed,  when  one 
notes  its  striking  resemblance  to  the  draft  reported  by  the  Com- 
mittee of  Detail  on  August  6,  it  is  difficult  not  to  agree  with  Mr. 
Jameson's  conclusion  that  if  Pinckney  had  copied  *^  the  printed  report 
of  the  Committee  of  Detail,  paraphrasing  to  a  small  extent  here  and 
there,  and  interweaving  as  he  went  along  some  of  the  best  remem- 
bered features  of  his  own  plan,"  the  results  would  have  been  pre- 
cisely like  the  document  that  was  sent  to  John  Quincy  Adams.^ 
There  is  no  proof,  however,  it  is  only  a  possible  hypothesis,  that  in 
the  points  of  difference  from  the  draft  of  the  Committee  of  Detail 
the  document  sent  to  Adams  reproduces  portions  of  the  original 
plan.  The  most  that  can  be  said  is,  that  when  other  evidence  con- 
firms the  inclusion  of  such  provisions,  a  possible  reading  of  those 
clauses  may  here  be  found. 

Following  the  same  line  of  argument,  although  ignoring  the 
amendments  to  the  Articles  of  Confederation  and  treating  the 
Observations  with  ''considerable  skepticism,"  Mr.  Jameson  was  able 
to  establish  the  main  points  of  Pinckney's  original  plan.  By  a 
piece  of  brilliant  criticism  Mr.  Jameson  was  thus  enabled  to  identify 
a  document  among  the  Wilson  drafts  of  the  Committee  of  Detail 
as  a  series  of  extracts  from  the  Pinckney  Plan,'  and  Mr.  McLaugh- 
lin was  able  to  identify  another  document  among  the  same  papers 
as  an  outline  of  the  entire  plan.* 

Combining  all  of  these  sources  of  information  it  is  possible  to 
obtain  a  fairly  good  idea  of  the  Pinckney  Plan  in  its  original  from. 
The  following  is  the  plan  thus  reconstructed.  (Italics  and  quota- 
tion marks  indicate  respectively  the  outline  and  extracts  used  by 
Wilson  in  the  Committee  of  Detail;  statements  based  upon  the 
''Observations"  are  placed  in  parentheses;  numbers  attached  to  the 
different  articles  have  little  significance). 

The  Draught  of  a  Foederal  Government  to  be  agreed  upon 

BETWEEN  THE  FrEE  AND  INDEPENDENT  StATES  OF  AliERICA.^ 

A  Confederation  between  the  free  and  independent  States  of  N.  H. 
Cffc.  is  hereby  solemnly  made  uniting  them  together  under  one  general 
superintending  Government  for  their  common  Benefit  and  for  their 

^  Studies^  P*  IH- 

*  Studies,  p.  117-132.    See  Records,  July  aT^Augiust  4,  Committee  of  Detail,  VIL 

*  American  Historical  Review,  he,  ciL  See  Records,  July  27-Augutt  4,  Com- 
mittee of  Deuil,  III.  *  Records  of  May  29. 


APPENDIX  D  605 

Defense  and  Security  against  all  Designs  and  Leagues  that  may  be  in- 
jurious to  their  interests  and  against  all  Fore  [Foes?]  and  Attacks  offered 
to  or  made  upon  them  or  any  of  them. 

[I] 

The  Stile  of  this  government  shall  be  The  United  States  of  Amer- 
ica/ and  (the  legislative,  executive  and  judiciary  powers  shall  be 
separate  and  distinct). 

[11] 

'^The  Legislature  shall  consist  of  two  distinct  Branches  —  a 
Senate  and  a  House  of  Delegates^  each  of  which  shall  have  a  Negative 
on  the  other,  and  shall  be  stiled  the  U.  S.  in  Congress  assembled.*^ 

The  House  of  Delegates  to  be  elected  by  the  State  Legislatures,* 
and  to  consist  of  one  Member  for  every  thousand  inhabi- 

tants i  of  Blacks  included} 

For  the  forming  of  the  Senate  the  United  States  to  be  divided 
into  four  great  districts^*  (so  apportioned  as  to  give  to  each  its  due 
weight).  The  Senate  to  be  elected  by  the  House  of  Delegates  either  from 
among  themselves  or  the  people  at  large}  When  so  formed,  the  Sen- 
ate to  be  divided  into  four  classes,  —  to  serve  by  Rotation  of  four 
years} 

The  Members  of  S.  W  H,  D.  shall  each  have  one  Votef  and  shall 
be  paid  out  of  the  common  Treasury. 

The  Time  of  the  Election  of  the  Members  of  the  H.  D,  and  of  the 
meeting  of  the  U.  S,  in  C.  assembled, 

''Each  House  shall  appoint  its  own  Speaker  and  other  Officers, 
and  settle  its  own  Rules  of  Proceeding;  but  neither  the  Senate  nor 
H.  D.  shall  have  the  power  to  adjourn  for  more  than  Days 

without  the   Consent  of  both." 

[Freedom  of  speech  and  protection  from  arrest  as  in  Article  V  of 
the  Articles  of  Confederation.] 

(Attendance  compulsory  provided  no  punishment  shall  be  fur- 
ther extended  than  to  disqualifications)  any  longer  to  be  members 
of  Congress  or  to  hold  any  office  of  trust  or  profit  under  the  United 
States  or  any  individual  State.^ 

^  Articles  of  Confederation. 

>  Records  of  June  6,  Appendix  A,  CCXXXVII,  CCXXXVIII,  and  letter  of  Read 
to  Dickinson.  *  Confirmed  by  Read. 

^  Read,  confinned  by  Obsenations  and  Records  of  July  2.  C/.  Constitution  of 
New  York  of  1777. 

'  Confinned  by  Read  and  Observations, 

•  Confirmed  by  Observations. 

^  Amendment  to  Articles  of  Confederation  proposed  in  1786. 


6o6     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

[III] 

The  Senate  and  H.  D.  shall  by  joint  Ballot  annually  (septennially) 
chuse  the  Presidt.  U.  S.  from  among  themselves  or  the  People  at  large, — 
In  the  Presidt.  ''the  executive  Authority  of  the  U.  S.  shall  be  vesud.*' 

''It  shall  be  his  Duty  to  inform  the  Legislature  [at  every  ses- 
sion] '  of  the  condition  of  the  United  States,  so  far  as  may  respect 
his  Department  —  to  recommend  Matters  to  their  Consideration 
[such  as  shall  appear  to  him  to  concern  their  good  government,  wel- 
fare and  prosperity]  *  —  to  correspond  with  the  Executives  of  the 
several  States — to  attend  to  the  Execution  of  the  Laws  of  the  US" 
(by  the  several  States)  —  "to  transact  Affairs  with  the  Officers  of 
Government,  civil  and  military  —  to  expedite  all  such  Measures 
as  may  be  resolved  on  by  the  Legislature"  —  (to  acquire  from  time 
to  time,  as  perfect  a  knowledge  of  the  situation  of  the  Union,  as  he 
possibly  can,  and  to  be  charged  with  all  the  business  of  the  home 
department.  He  will  be  empowered,  whenever  he  conceives  it 
necessary)  "to  inspect  the  Departments  of  foreign  Affairs  —  War  — 
Treasury — "  (and  when  instituted  of  the)  "Admiralty  —  to  reside 
where  the  Legislature  shall  sit  —  to  commission  all  Officers,  and  keep 
the  Great  Seal  of  the  United  States." 

"He  shall,  by  Virtue  of  his  Office,  be  G)mmander  in  chief  of 
the  Land  Forces  of  U.  S.  and  Admiral  of  their  Navy."  * 

"He  shall  have  Power  to  convene  the  Legislature  on  extraordi- 
nary occasions  —  to  prorogue  them,"  (when  they  cannot  agree  as 
to  the  time  of  their  adjournment,)  **  provided  such  Prorogation  shall 
not  exceed  Days  in  the  space  of  any  — He  may  suspend 
Officers,  civil  and  military." 

(He  shall  be  removable  by  impeachment.*  The  Legislature  shall 
fix  his  salary  on  permanent  principles.) 

He  shall  have  a  Right  to  advise  with  the  Heads  of  the  different  Depart- 
ments as  his  Council.^ 

Council  of  Revision^  consisting  of  the  PresdL  S.  for  for.  Affairs^ 
S,  of  War  J  Heads  of  the  Departments  of  Treasury  and  Admiralty  or 
any  two  of  them  togr  wt  the  Presidt.^ 

(IV) 

(The  4th  article  ...  is  formed  exactly  upon  the  principles  of 
the  4th  article  of  the  present  confederation,  except  with  this  differ- 
ence, that  the  demand  of  the  Executive  of  a  State  for  any  fugitive 

^  New  York  Constitution  of  1777,  Article  XIX. 

>  Confinned  by  Observations,    Cf,  New  York  Constitutiott,  Article  XVIII. 

'  Pinckney  was  opposed  to  impeachment  on  July  20.    See  Records  of  that  date. 

^  Confirmed  by  Observations.    Cf.  Records  of  June  6^ 


APPENDIX  D  607 

criminal  offender  shall  be  complied  with.     It  is  now  confined  to 
treason,  felony,  or  other  high  misdemeanor.) 

Mutual  IfUercourse  —  Community  of  Privileges  —  Surrender  of 
Criminals  —  Faith  to  Proceedings^  i^c. 

(V) 

(The  5th  article,  declaring  that  individual  States  shall  not  exer- 
cise certain  powers,  is  founded  on  the  same  principles  as  the  6th  of 
the  confederation.) 

No  State  to  make  Treaties  —  lay  interfering  Duties  —  keep  a  naval 
or  land  Force  Militia  excepted  to  be  disciplined  l^c  according  to  the 
Regulations  of  the  £/.  S. 

Each  State  retains  its  Rights  not  expressly  delegated  —  But  no  Bill 
of  the  Legislature  of  any  State  shall  become  a  law  till  it  shall  have  been 
laid  before  S.  W  H.  D.  in  C.  assembled  and  received  their  approbation} 

(VI) 
The  S.  W  H.  D.  in  C  Assembled  ^' shall  have  the  exclusive  Power 
—  of  raising  a  military  Land  Force"  (and  of  appointing  all  the  offi- 
cers) —  "of  equiping  a  Navy  —  of  rating  and  causing  public  Taxes 
to  be  levied"  (agreeable  to  the  rule  now  in  use,  an  enumeration  of 
the  white  inhabitants,  and  three-fifths  of  other  descriptions.) 

(VII) 
The  S.  W  H.  D.  in  C.  assembled  shall  have  the  exclusive  power 
"c/  regulating  the  Trade  of  the  several  States  as  well  with  Foreign 
Nations  as  with  each  other  —  of  levying  Duties  upon  Imports  and 
Exports"  —  Each  State  may  lay  Embargoes  in  Time  of  Scarcity} 

(  VIII ) 
The  S.  W  H,  D,  in  C.  assembled  shall  have  exclusive  power  ^*of 
establishing  PosuOffices^  and  raising  a  Revenue  from  them  —  of 
regulating  Indian  Affairs  —  of  coining  Money"  —  regulating  its 
Alloy  and  Value  —  ^* fixing  the  Standard  of  freights  and  Measures^* 
throughout  U.  S. — "of  determining  in  what  species  of  Money  the 
public  Treasury  shall  be  supplied."  • 

(IX) 
S.  W  H.  Z).  in  C.  ass.  shall  be  the  last  Resort  on  Appeal  in  Dis- 
putes  between  two  or  more  States;  which  Authority  shall  be  exercised  in 
the  following  Manner  l^c.  (the  same  with  that  in  the  Q>nfederation.) 

^  Confirmed  by  Observations,    Cf.  Records  of  June  8. 

*  Confinned  by  (^servations,  and  probably  modelled  upon  amendment  to  Articles 
pf  Ccvkfederation  proposed  in  1786.  '  Confirmed  by  Observations. 


6o8     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

(X) 

S.  13  H.  D.  in  C.  ass.  shall  institute  offices  and  appoint  officers 
for  the  Departments  of  for.  Affairs^  War^  Treasury  and  Admiralty — 

They  shall  have  the  exclusive  Power  of  declaring  what  shall  be  Trea- 
son and  Misp.  of  Treason  agU  U.  S.  —  and  of  instituting  a  federal 
judicial  Courts  which  '*  shall  try  Officers  of  the  U.  S.  for  all  Crimes 
&c  in  their  Offices  —  and  to  this  G)urt  an  Appeal  shall  be  allowed 
from  the  "  judicial  *^  Courts  of**  the  several  States  in  all  Causes  wherein 
Questions  shall  arise  on  the  Construction  of  Treaties  made  by  U.  S,  — 
or  on  the  Law  of  Nations  —  or  on  the  Regulations  of  U.  S.  concerning 
Trade  and  Revenue  or  wherein  U.  S.  shall  be  a  Party  —  The  Court 
shall  consist  of  Judges  to  be  appointed  during  good  Behaviour,^ 

S.  W  H.  D,  in  C.  ass,  **  shall  have  the  exclusive  Right  of  instituting  in 
each  State  a  Court  of  Admiralty^**  and  appointing  the  Judges  Wc  of 
the  samCf  ''for  hearing  and  determining"  all  ^* maritime  Causes** 
which  may  arise  therein  respectively,^ 

[XII 
Points  in  which  the  Assent  of  more  than  a  bare  Majority  shall  be 
necessary.  (The  Assent  of  Two-Thirds  of  both  Houses,  where  the 
present  Confederation  has  made  the  assent  of  Nine  States  necessary, 
and  added  the  Regulation  of  Trade,  and  Acts  for  levying  an  Impost 
and  raising  a  Revenue.) 

[XII J 
"The  power  of  impeaching  shall  be  vested  in  the  H.  D.  —  The 
Senators  and  Judges  of  the  foederal  Court,  be  a  Court  for  trying 
Impeachments.''* 

[XIII] 
S.  li  H,  D.  in  C.  ass.  shall  regulate  "possess  the  exclusive  Right 
of  establishing  the  Government  and  Discipline  of  the  Militia**  thro 
the  U.  S.  —  "and  of  ordering  the  Militia  of  any  State  to  any  Place 
within  U.  S." » 

[XIV] 
Means  of  enforcing  and  compelling  the  Payment  of  the  Quota  of 
each  StaU.^ 

[XV] 
Manner  and  Conditions  of  admitting  new  States. 
Power  of  dividing  annexing  and  consolidating  States y  on  the  Cop- 
sent  and  Petition  of  such  States. 

*  Confirmed  by  Observations^  and  probably  modelled  upon  amendment  to  Articles 
of  Confederation  proposed  in  1786.  *  Confirmed  by  Observations. 

*  Subsunce  of  this  article  was  in  the  Wilson  Outline.  C/.  New  York  Consu- 
tution,  Articles  XXXII  and  XXXIII. 


.J 


APPENDIX  D  609 

(Federal  Goverament  should  also  possess  the  exclusive  right  of 
declaring  on  what  terms  the  privileges  of  citizenship  and  naturaliza- 
tion should  be  extended  to  foreigners.)  ^ 

(XVI) 
The  assent  of  the  Legislature  of  States  shall  be  sufficient  to 

invest  future  additional  Powers  in  U.  S.  in  C  ass.  and  shall  bind  the 
whole  confederacy? 

[  XVII  ] 
The  said  States  of  N,  H.  tfr  guarrantee  mutually  each  other  and 
their  Rights  against  all  other  Powers  and  against  all  Rebellion  i^c. 

[  XVIII] 

(The  next  article  provides  for  the  privilege  of  the  writ  of  habeas 
corpus  —  the  trial  by  jury  in  all  cases,  criminal  as  well  as  civil  — 
the  freedom  of  the  press  and  the  prevention  of  religious  tests  as 
qualifications  to  offices  of  trust  or  emolument.     .  .  • 

There  is  also  an  authority  to  the  national  legislature,  permanently 
to  fix  the  seat  of  the  general  government,  to  secure  to  authors  the 
exclusive  right  to  their  performances  and  discoveries,  and  to  estab- 
lish a  Federal  University.)  • 

[XIX] 
The  Articles  of  Confederation  shall  be  inviolably  observed  unless 
altered  as  before  directed^  and  the  Union  shall  be  perpetual, 

^  It  18  doubtful  whether  this  paragraph  should  be  included. 

*  Confirmed  by  Ohsiroations, 

'These  two  paragraphs  occur  in  a  somewhat  irrelevant  way  near  the  end  of 
the  pamphlet  Observations.  The  provisions  they  embody  were  among  those  proposed 
by  Pinckney  on  August  20.  It  is  quite  possible  that  they  were  not  a  part  of  the 
original  plan. 


APPENDIX  E 

THE  NEW  JERSEY  PLAN  OR  PATERSON  RESOLUTIONS 

When  the  Q>nvcntion,  in  Committee  of  the  Whole  was  evidently 
coming  to  a  favorable  conclusion  in  its  consideration  of  the  Virginia 
Plan,  various  representatives  of  the  opposition  —  mainly  from  the 
smaller  states  —  met  together  and  drafted  a  series  of  resolutions, 
which  was  presented  to  the  Convention  on  June  15.  Paterson  of 
New  Jersey  had  apparently  taken  the  lead  in  this  movement  and  he 
was  chosen  to  present  the  resolutions  to  the  Convention.  These 
resolutions  have  accordingly  been  known  as  the  New  Jersey  Plan, 
or  the  Paterson  Resolutions.^ 

Several  copies  of  the  New  Jersey  Plan  are  in  existence,  contain- 
ing the  usual  minor  differences  in  wording,  spelling,  and  punctua- 
tion. But  they  also  differ  in  more  important  particulars:  —  The 
Madison  and  Washington  copies  are  practically  identical,  but  the 
other  copies  contain  two  additional  resolutions:  a  sixth,  ''that  the 
legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  powers  within  the  several  States 
ought  to  be  bound  by  oath  to  support  the  Articles  of  Union;"  and 
a  ninth,  ''that  provision  ought  to  be  made  for  hearing  and  deciding 
upon  all  disputes  arising  between  the  United  States  and  an  individual 
State  respecting  territory."  Also  in  the  fourth  resolution,  the  Mad- 
ison and  Washington  copies  read,  that  the  Executive  shall  be ''  remov- 
able by  Congress  on  application  by  a  majority  of  the  executives 
of  the  several  States,"  while  the  Brearley  and  Paterson  copies  read 
"removable  on  impeachment  and  conviction  for  malpractice  or  neg- 
lect of  duty  by  Congress  on  application  by  a  majority  of  the  execu- 
tives of  the  several  States."  * 

As  already  stated,  the  presentation  of  the  New  Jersey  Plan  re- 
sulted from  a  conference  of  several  delegates,  in  which  Paterson 
seemed  to  have  been  a  leading  spirit.  Among  the  Paterson  Papers, 
each  in  Paterson's  handwriting  on  a  separate  sheet  of  foolscap,  are 
found  the  following  documents:  — 

I 

I.  Resolved,  That  a  union  of  the  States  merely  federal  ought 
to  be  the  sole  Object  of  the  Exercise  of  the  Powers  vested  in  this 
Convention.* 

1  See  Records,  June  14-15,  and  Appendix  A,  CLVIII  (5)  and  (10),  CCXXXIII, 
CCCLXXVI.  '  See  Madison's  note  at  the  end  of  his  copy  (Ricords,  June  15). 

*  This  resolution  is  partly  crossed  out  in  the  original. 

6x1 


6l2     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

2.  Resolved,  That  the  Articles  of  the  Confederation  ought  to 
be  so  revised,  corrected,  and  enlarged  as  to  render  the  federal  Con- 
stitution adequate  to  the  Exigencies  of  Government,  and  the  Pre- 
servation of  the  Union  — 

3.  Resolved,  That  the  federal  Government  of  the  United  States 
ought  to  consist  of  a  Supreme  Legislative,  Executive,  and  Judiciary  — 

4.  Resolved,  That  the  Powers  of  Legislation  ought  to  be  vested 
in  Congress. 

5.  Resolved,  That  in  Addition  to  the  Powers  vested  in  the 
United  States  in  Congress  by  the  present  existing  Articles  of  Con- 
federation, they  be  authorized  to  pass  Acts  for  levying  a  Duty  or 
Duties  on  all  Goods  and  Merchandize  of  foreign  Growth  or  Manu- 
facture imported  into  any  Part  of  the  United  States  not  exceed- 
ing per  Cent,  ad  Valorem  to  be  applied  to  such  federal  Purposes 
as  they  shall  deem  proper  and  expedient,  and  to  make  Rules  and 
Regulations  for  the  Collection  thereof;  and  the  same  from  Time  to 
Time  to  alter  and  amend  in  such  Manner  as  they  shall  think  proper. 
Provided,  That  all  Punishments,  Fines,  Forfeitures,  and  Penalties 
to  be  incurred  for  contravening  such  Rules  and  Regulations  shall 
be  adjudged  and  decided  upon  by  the  Judiciaries  of  the  State  in 
which  any  Offence  contrary  to  the  true  Intent  and  Meaning  of  such 
Rules  and  Regulations  shall  be  committed  or  perpetrated;  subject 
nevertheless  to  an  Appeal  for  the  Correction  of  any  Errors  in  render- 
ing Judgment  to  the  Judiciary  of  the  United  States. 

That  the  United  States  in  Congress  be  also  authorized  to  pass 
Acts  for  the  Regulation  of  Trade  as  well  with  foreign  Nations  as 
with  each  other,  and  for  laying  such  Prohibitions,  [In  margin:  "  Im- 
posts Excise  —  Stamps  —  Post-Office  —  PoU-Tax  —  "]  and  such  Im- 
posts and  Duties  upon  Imports  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  Purpose; 
Provided,  That  the  Legislatures  of  the  several  States  shall  not  be 
restrained  from  laying  Embargoes  in  Times  of  Scarcity;  and  provided 
further  that  such  Imposts  and  Duties  so  far  forth  as  the  same  shall 
exceed  .  .  .  per  Centum  ad  Valorem  on  the  Imports  shall  accrue 
to  the  Use  of  the  State  in  which  the  same  may  be  collected 

II 

1.  Resolved,  That  the  Articles  of  the  confederation  ought  ^ 
to  ^  be  so  revised,  corrected,  and  enlarged  as  to  render  the  federal 
constitution  adequate  to  the  exigencies  of  government,  and  the 
preservation  of  the  union  — 

2.  Resolved,  That  the  alterations,  additions,  and  provisions 
made  in  and  to  the  articles  of  the  confederation  shall  be  reported 

^  Added  in  different  ink. 


APPENDIX  E  613 

to  the  united  states  in  congress  and  to  the  individual  states  compos- 
ing the  union,  agreeably  to  the  13  th  *  article  of  the  confederation  — 

3.  Resolved,  That  the  federal  government  of  the  united  states 
ought  to  consist  of  a  supreme  *  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary  — 

4.  Resolved,  That  the  powers  of  legislation  be  vested  in  G)n- 
gress  — 

5.  [In  margin:  "  See  Mr.  Lansing — "] 

6.  [In  margin:  "See  Governor  Randolph's.  7th  Prop."] 

7.  [In  margin:  "Same  —  9th."] 

Resolved,  That  every  State  in  the  Union  as  a  State  possesses  an 
equal  Right  to,  and  Share  of.  Sovereignty,  Freedom,  and  Independ- 
ance  — 

Resolved,  therefore,  that  the  Representation  in  the  supreme 
Legislature  ought  to  be  by  States,  otherwise  some  of  the  States  in 
the  Union  will  possess  a  greater  Share  of  Sovereignty,  Freedom,  and 
Independance  than  others  — 

Whereas  it  is  necessary  in  Order  to  form  the  People  of  the  U.  S, 
of  America  into  a  Nation,  that  the  States  should  be  consolidated, 
by  which  means  all  the  Citizens  thereof  will  become  equally  intitled 
to  and  will  equally  participate  in  the  same  Privileges  and  Rights, 
and  in  all  waste,  uncultivated,  and  back  Territory  and  Lands;  it  is 
therefore  resolved,  that  all  the  Lands  contained  within  the  Limits 
of  each  State  individually,  and  of  the  U.  S.  generally  be  considered 
as  constituting  one  Body  or  Mass,  and  be  divided  into  thirteen  or 
more  integral  Parts. 

Resolved,  That  such  Divisions  or  integral  Parts  shall  be  styled 
Districts. 

Ill 

[A  fair  copy  of  the  first  four  resolutions  of  II,  but  not  numbered, 
and  in  the  second  resolution  "shall"  is  changed  to  "ought  to".] 

These  documents  evidently  represent  preliminary  sketches  of 
the  New  Jersey  Plan,  and  a  careful  study  of  the  probable  origin  of 
the  various  provisions  shows  clearly  that  the  completed  New  Jer- 
sey Plan  was  doubtless  a  joint  product.* 

Paterson's  copy  of  the  plan  is  to  be  found  in  a  little  book  into 
which  he  also  copied  the  Virginia  Plan,  the  Report  of  the  Committee 
of  the  Whole,  and  Hamilton's  Plan.  The  resolutions  are  written  on 
the  right-hand  pages;  certain  phrases  omitted  in  copying  or  changes 
in  wording  are  written  on  the  left-hand  pages  with  marks  to  show 
the  places  of  their  insertion.  For  example,  in  the  doubtful  reading 
of  the  fourth  article,  the  right-hand  page  has  the  words  "and  remove- 


» Added  in  different  ink.  •  Jameson,  Studies,  140-143. 


6l4     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

able  on  Impeachment  and  Conviction  for  Mal-Practice,  or  Neglect 
of  Duty/'  and  opposite  them  on  the  left-hand  page  "by  Congress 
on  Application  by  a  Majority  of  the  executives  of  the  several  States." 
In  this  instance  there  are  no  asterisks,  and  the  two  phrases  prob- 
ably represent  alternative  proposals  upon  which  no  conclusion  was 
reached.  In  copying,  some  of  the  members  doubtless  ran  the  two 
phrases  together.^  It  is  probable  that  most  of  the  other  variations 
could  be  accounted  for  in  a  similar  way. 

In  his  Genuine  Information^  Luther  Martin  states  that  a  ques- 
tion was  proposed  and  negatived  "that  a  union  of  the  States,  merely 
federal,  ought  to  be  the  sole  object  of  the  exercise  of  the  powers 
vested  in  the  convention."  *  Mr.  Jameson  identifies  this  with  the 
action  of  the  Convention  on  June  19  in  rejecting  the  first  of  the  reso- 
lutions presented  by  Paterson.  He  therefore  concludes  that  we  have 
in  this  the  correct  reading  of  the  first  article  of  the  New  Jersey  Plan. 

Martin  also  stated  in  his  Genuine  Information  that  he  had  a 
copy  of  the  New  Jersey  Plan,  which  he  asked  leave  to  read.'  Shortly 
afterward  (February  15,  1788)  there  appeared  in  the  Maryland 
Gazette  and  Baltimore  Advertiser^  a  copy  of  the  "Resolves  proposed 
to  the  Convention  by  the  Honorable  Mr.  Paterson,  and  mentioned 
in  Mr.  Martin's  Information  to  the  House  of  Assembly."  It  is 
altogether  probable  that  the  printer  obtained  the  document  from 
Martin.  This  copy  consists  of  sixteen  articles.  The  first  is  identical 
with  the  resolution  Martin  stated  was  negatived  in  the  Convention 
and  which  Mr.  Jameson  thinks  was  the  first  article  of  the  New  Jer- 
sey Plan.  It  is  the  same  as  the  first  resolution  partially  crossed  out 
in  Paterson's  first  preliminary  draft.  The  others  correspond  to 
those  of  the  Paterson  and  Brearley  copies,  except  that  they  differ 
in  order  and  subdivisions  and  there  is  an  extra  article  ("Resolved, 
that  it  is  necessary  to  define  what  offences,  committed  in  any  State, 
shall  be  deemed  high  treason  against  the  United  States."),  which 
was  included  but  crossed  out  in  Paterson's  little  book. 

Assuming  that  this  is  Martin's  copy,  it  would  seem  to  have  been 
compiled  like  those  made  by  others  of  the  group  which  formulated 
the  New  Jersey  Plan,  embodying  various  suggested  articles  and 
phrases  which  appealed  to  him  personally. 

Instead  of  regarding  Martin's  statement  to  be  conclusive  as  to 
the  identity  of  the  first  resolution  of  the  New  Jersey  Plan,  it  would 
seem  to  be  more  likely  that  Martin  had  noted  or  remembered  simply 

>  Ibid,  136-137.  ■  Appendix  A,  CLVIII  (35). 

•  Appendix  A,  CLVIII  (10). 

^  In  which  the  Genuine  Information  had  been  printed,  December  28,  1787-Febni- 
try  8, 1788.  At  the  point  where  Martin  referred  to  the  New  Jersey  plan,  the  printer 
added  a  note:  "these  will  be  inserted  in  a  future  number." 


APPENDIX   E  615 

that  the  first  resolution  had  been  rejected,  and  had  then  turned  to 
his  own  copy  for  the  exact  wording  of  it. 

The  editor's  final  conclusion  is  that  the  Madison  copy  fairly 
reproduces  the  original,  and  is  probably  the  most  accurate  copy  in 
existence  of  the  New  Jersey  Plan  presented  to  the  Convention. 
This  conclusion  is  confirmed  by  Madison's  line  of  ai:gument  when 
insisting  upon  the  correctness  of  his  text  as  compared  with  that  in 
the  Journal^  and  by  King's  summary  *  which  seems  to  have  been 
taken  down  hastily  as  the  plan  was  read  in  the  Convention. 

Sherman's  Proposals 

Among  the  Sherman  papers  was  found  a  document  containing 
a  series  of  propositions,'  which  has  been  variously  interpreted: 
The  members  of  the  Connecticut  delegation  to  the  Federal  Conven- 
tion had  served  upon  several  di£Ferent  committees  of  Congress  that 
had  proposed  amendments  to  the  Articles  of  Confederation,  and 
this  document  embodies  some  of  the  amendments  thus  proposed.^ 
L.  H.  Boutell,  in  his  Lije  of  Roger  Sherman^  treats  it  as  having  been 
prepared  in  the  latter  part  of  Sherman's  service  in  Congress  and  ^'as 
embodying  the  amendments  which  he  deemed  necessary  to  be  made 
to  the  existing  government."  ^  Bancroft,  on  the  other  hand,  regards 
it  as  a  plan  of  government  presented  to  the  Federal  Convention 
"which  in  importance  stands  next  to  that  of  Virginia."  • 

Neither  of  these  interpretations  is  acceptable  to  the  editor,  who 
is  inclined  to  consider  this  document  as  more  probably  presenting 
the  ideas  of  the  Connecticut  delegation  in  forming  the  New  Jersey 
Plan.^    It  is  accordingly  reprinted  here,  and  is  as  follows:  — 

"  That,  in  addition  to  the  legislative  powers  vested  in  congress 
by  the  articles  of  confederation,  the  legislature  of  the  United  States 
be  authorised  to  make  laws  to  regulate  the  commerce  of  the  United 
States  with  foreign  nations,  and  among  the  several  states  in  the  union; 
to  impose  duties  on  foreign  goods  and  commodities  imported  into 
the  United  States,  and  on  papers  passing  through  the  post  office, 
for  raising  a  revenue,  and  to  regulate  the  collection  thereof,  and  apply 
the  same  to  the  payment  of  the  debts  due  from  the  United  States, 
and  for  supporting  the  government,  and  other  necessary  charges 
of  the  Union. 

^  Note  at  end  of  his  copy,  Records,  June  15. 
'  See  above,  Records,  June  15. 

'  Printed  in  Sanderson,  Biography  of  the  Signers  of  the  Declaration  of  Independence 
(1823),  III,  269-274,  and  reprinted  in  Boutell,  Life  of  Roger  Sherman  (1896),  132-134. 

*  Bancroft,  History  of  the  Formation  of  the  Constitution  II,  37-38,  note. 

*  Boutell,  loc.  cit,f  p.  132. 

*  Bancroft,  loc,  cil,,  p.  37.  '  See  Jameson,  Studies,  p.  150. 


6l6     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

To  make  laws  binding  on  the  people  of  the  United  States,  and  on 
the  courts  of  law,  and  other  magistrates  and  officers,  civil  and  mil- 
itary, within  the  several  states,  in  all  cases  which  concern  the  com- 
mon interests  of  the  United  States:  but  not  to  interfere  with  the 
government  of  the  individual  states,  in  matters  of  internal  police 
which  respect  the  government  of  such  states  only,  and  wherein  the 
general  welfare  of  the  United  States  is  not  affected. 

That  the  laws  of  the  United  States  ought,  as  far  as  may  be  con- 
sistent with  the  common  interests  of  the  Union,  to  be  carried  into 
execution  by  the  judiciary  and  executive  officers  of  the  respective 
states,  wherein  the  execution  thereof  is  required. 

That  the  legislature  of  the  United  States  be  authorised  to  insti- 
tute one  supreme  tribunal,  and  such  other  tribunals  as  they  may  judge 
necessary  for  the  purpose  aforesaid,  and  ascertain  their  respective 
powers  and  jurisdictions. 

That  the  legislatures  of  the  individual  states  ought  not  to  possess 
a  right  to  emit  bills  of  credit  for  a  currency,  or  to  make  any  tender 
laws  for  the  payment  or  discharge  of  debts  or  contracts,  in  any 
manner  different  from  the  agreement  of  the  parties,  unless  for  pay- 
ment of  the  value  of  the  thing  contracted  for,  in  current  money, 
agreeable  to  the  standard  that  shall  be  allowed  by  the  legislature  of 
the  United  States,  or  in  any  manner  to  obstruct  or  impede  the  recov- 
ery of  debts,  whereby  the  interests  of  foreigners,  or  the  citizens  of 
any  other  state,  may  be  affected. 

That  the  eighth  article  of  the  confederation  ought  to  be  amended 
agreeably  to  the  recommendation  of  congress  of  the       day  of        .^ 

That,  if  any  state  shall  refuse  or  neglect  to  furnish  its  quota  of 
supplies,  upon  requisition  made  by  the  legislature  of  the  United 
States,  agreeably  to  the  articles  of  the  Union,  that  the  said  legisla- 
ture be  authorised  to  order  the  same  to  be  levied  and  collected  of 
the  inhabitants  of  such  state,  and  to  make  such  rules  and  orders  as 
may  be  necessary  for  that  purpose. 

That  the  legislature  of  the  United  States  have  power  to  make 
laws  calling  forth  such  aid  from  the  people,  from  time  to  time,  as 
may  be  necessary  to  assist  the  civil  officers  in  the  execution  of  the 
laws  of  the  United  States;  and  annex  suitable  penalties  to  be  inflicted 
in  case  of  disobedience. 

That  no  person  shall  be  liable  to  be  tried  for  any  criminal  offence, 
committed  within  any  of  the  United  States,  in  any  other  state  than 
that  wherein  the  offence  shall  be  committed,  nor  be  deprived  of  the 
privilege  of  trial  by  a  jury,  by  virtue  of  any  law  of  the  United  States." 

^  These  bUnks  should  evidently  be  filled  with  "  i8th  of  April,  1783." 


APPENDIX  F 

THE   HAMILTON  PLAN* 

In  connection  with  his  important  speech  of  June  i8,  Hamilton 
read  a  sketch  of  a  plan  of  government  which  ''was  meant  only  to 
give  a  more  correct  view  of  his  ideas,  and  to  suggest  the  amendments 
which  he  should  probably  propose  to  the  plan  of  Mr.  R.  in  the  proper 
stages  of  its  future  discussion."  * 

Although  this  plan  was  not  formally  before  the  Convention  in 
any  way,  several  of  the  delegates  made  copies  that  show  consider- 
able di£Ferences  in  certain  articles,  —  namely,  the  fourth,  seventh 
and  eighth. 

In  the  fourth  article,  which  relates  to  the  executive,  the  varia- 
tions are  in  that  part  which  prescribes  the  (indirect)  mode  of  his 
election.  Hamilton's  own  copy  (found  among  his  papers,  but  may 
have  been  retouched  by  its  author)  provides  for  "his  election  to  be 
made  by  electors  chosen  by  electors  chosen  by  the  people  in  the 
election  districts  aforesaid,"  meaning  the  single-member  districts 
arranged  for  the  choice  of  senators.  That  is  to  say,  it  provides  not 
that  his  election  shall  be  secondary,  but  that  it  shall  be,  if  the  phrase 
is  permissible,  a  tertiary  election.  An  alternative  is  provided, 
which  appears  in  no  other  of  the  texts,  namely,  "or  by  electors  chosen 
for  that  purpose  by  the  respective  legislatures"  —  an  election  still 
tertiary.  The  Brearley  and  Paterson  copies,  though  they  do  not  give 
the  second  member  of  this  alternative,  agree  exactly  with  the  phrase- 
ology of  the  first.  In  Madison's  copy  the  process  becomes  simply 
that  of  secondary  election  —  "  the  election  to  be  made  by  electors 
chosen  by  the  people  in  the  election  districts  aforesaid."  Read's 
copy  agrees  with  this.  Arguments  from  one  or  another  of  these 
texts  derived  from  expressions  used  in  the  subsequent  debates  seem 
to  be  lacking.  The  more  intricate  form  in  which  the  Hamilton  copy 
provides  for  the  election  of  the  executive  is  sustained  by  the  longer 
plan  which  Hamilton  gave  to  Madison  at  the  close  of  the  Convention, 
for  this  provided  for  a  tertiary  rather  than  a  secondary  election, 

^  In  preparing  this  criticism,  the  editor  has  used  freely,  with  Mr.  Jameson's  per- 
mission, "The  text  of  Hamilton's  Plan,"  in  J.  F.  Jameson,  Studies  in  the  History  of  the 
Federal  Conoention  of  lySy^  pp.  143-150. 

»  Sec  Records  of  June  18,  and  Appendix  A,  CCXXXIII,  CCXXXI,  CCXCII, 

ccxciv— ccxcvi,  cccix,  cccxi,  cccxii,  cx:cxxiv,  CCCXXVIII, 

CCCXXIX,  CCCLIV,  CCCLXVII,  CCCLXXX,  CCCXGVII,  CCCCI. 

617 


6l8     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTIOK 

and  it  is  easy  in  copying  to  omit  one  of  two  similar  phrases  when  the 
repetition  is  not  perfectly  well  known  to  be  intentional.  On  the 
other  hand,  it  is  not  easy  to  imagine  that  the  alternative  method 
which  is  suggested  in  Hamilton's  copy  was  really  the  document  read 
on  June  i8,  yet  escaped  all  notice  on  the  part  of  all  of  those  whose 
versions  have  come  down  to  us. 

In  the  seventh  article,  relating  to  the  judiciary,  the  number  of 
judges  in  the  Supreme  Court  is  left  blank  in  the  others,  whereas 
in  Hamilton's  copy  the  blank  is  filled  with  the  word  twelve.  Much 
the  most  probable  conclusion  is  that  the  document  originally  read 
had  a  blank  at  this  point,  which  Hamilton  subsequently  filled  in 
with  the  number.  In  his  longer  plan  he  provides  for  a  court  of  from 
•ix  to  twelve  judges. 

The  eighth  article  in  Hamilton's  copy  reads: 

**  The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  to  have  power  to  insti- 
tute courts  in  each  State  for  the  determination  of  all  causes  of  cap- 
ture and  of  all  matters  relating  to  their  revenue,  or  in  which  the 
citizens  of  foreign  nations  are  concerned." 

In  the  other  copies  we  find  a  less  specific  definition  of  their  juris- 
diction: "for  the  determination  of  all  matters  of  general  concern." 
It  would  be  natural,  according  to  the  usual  rules  respecting  copying, 
to  suppose  that  the  more  specific  phrase  was  the  original,  the  more 
general  derivative;  but  this  presumption  is  much  weakened  when  we 
find  several  independent  texts  agreeing  exactly  in  their  phrasing 
of  this  provision.  , 

Finally,  in  the  ninth  article,  the  various  texts  differ  markedly  in 
respect  to  the  composition  of  the  court  for  trying  impeachments. 
Hamilton's  copy  provides  that  they  shall  be  tried  by  a  court  con- 
sisting "of  the  judges  of  the  Federal  Supreme  Court,  chief  or  senior 
judge  of  the  superior  court  of  law  of  each  State."  The  others  make 
no  mention  of  the  judges  of  the  Federal  Supreme  Court.  Once 
they  were  introduced,  it  is  easy  to  see  why  the  blank  in  Article  7 
should  be  filled  with  the  word  twelve,  lest  in  impeachments  of  Fed- 
eral ofiScers  they  be  quite  outnumbered  by  the  thirteen  chief  justices 
of  the  States,  or  so  many  of  them  as  could  attend.  But  the  other 
copies,  while  they  confine  the  tribunal  to  the  State  judges,  have  minor 
variations  in  their  definition  of  them  —  Madison,  "  to  consist  of  the 
chief  or  judge  of  the  superior  court  of  law  of  each  State"; 

Read,  "chief  or  judges";  Brearley  and  Paterson,  "chief  or 

senior  judge".  It  is  not  difficult  to  imagine  that,  if  the  writer  did 
not  feel  perfectly  acquainted  with  the  judicial  systems  of  all  the  States, 
and  therefore  could  not  in  advance  of  discussion  decide  what  phrase 
should  be  used  to  cover  the  case  of  States  which  did  not  precisely 


rmsm 


APPENDIX  F  619 

have  a  chief  judge,  he  might  at  first  write  ^' chief  or  judge/' 

and  afterward  fill  in  the  blank  with  the  word  ^'senior".  In  Hamil- 
ton's longer  plan,  the  court  for  the  trial  of  impeachments  in  the  case 
of  the  higher  officials  is  composed  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the 
United  States,  (which  was  to  consist  of  from  six  to  twelve  judges), 
plus  the  chief  or  senior  judge  of  each  State,  any  twelve  to  constitute 
a  court. 

No  other  data  being  available,  it  is  impossible  to  reach  a  posi- 
tive conclusion  upon  the  correct  reading  of  any  of  these  variations, 
but  the  editor  is  inclined  to  rely  upon  the  accuracy  of  the  Madison 
copy. 


The  document  that  has  just  been  discussed  is  to  be  distinguished 
from  the  following,  which  was  not  submitted  to  the  Convention 
and  has  no  further  value  than  attaches  to  the  personal  opinions  of 
Hamilton.^ 

Copy  of  a  paper  Communicated  to  J.  M.  by  Col.  Hamilton,  about 
the  close  of  the  Convention  in  Philada.  1787,  which  he  said  delin- 
eated the  Constitution  which  he  would  have  wished  to  be  proposed 
by  the  Convention:  He  had  stated  the  principles  of  it  in  the  course 
of  the  deliberations.     See 

The  people  of  the  United  States  of  America  do  ordain  &  estab- 
lish this  Constitution  for  the  government  of  themselves  and  their 
posterity. 

Article  I 

§.  I.  The  Legislative  power  shall  be  vested  in  two  distinct 
bodies  of  men,  one  to  be  called  the  Assembly,  the  other  the  Senate, 
subject  to  the  negative  hereinafter  mentioned. 

§  2.  The  Executive  power,  with  the  qualifications  hereinafter 
specified,  shall  be  vested  in  a  President  of  the  United  States. 

§.  3.  The  supreme  Judicial  authority,  except  in  the  cases  other- 
wise provided  for  in  this  Constitution,  shall  be  vested  in  a  Court  to 
be  called  the  Supreme  Court,  to  consist  of  not  less  than  six  or  more 
than  twelve  Judges. 

Article  n 

§  I.  The  Assembly  shall  consist  of  persons  to  be  called  repre- 
sentatives, who  shall  be  chosen,  except  in  the  first  instance,  by  the 
free  male  citizens  &  inhabitants  of  the  several  States  comprehended 

^  See  references  under  note  2,  above. 


620     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

in  the  Union,  all  of  whom  of  the  age  of  twenty  one  years  &  upwards 
shall  be  entitled  to  an  equal  vote. 

§  2.  But  the  first  Assembly  shall  be  chosen  in  the  manner  pre- 
scribed in  the  last  article  and  shall  consist  of  one  hundred  members 
of  whom  N.  Hamshire  shall  have  five,  Massachussetts  thirteen, 
Rhode  Island  two,  Connecticut  seven,  N.  York  nine,  N.  Jersey 
six,  Pennsylvania  twelve,  Delaware  two,  Maryland  eight,  Virginia 
sixteen,  N.  Carolina  eight,  S.  Carolina  eight,  Georgia  4. 

§  3.  The  Legislature  shall  provide  for  the  future  elections  of 
Representatives,  apportioning  them  in  each  State,  from  time  to 
time  as  nearly  as  may  be  to  the  number  of  persons  described  in  the 
4  §  of  the  VII  article,  so  as  that  the  whole  number  of  Representatives 
shall  never  be  less  than  one  hundred,  nor  more  than  hundred. 
There  shall  be  a  Census  taken  for  this  purpose  within  three  years 
after  the  first  meeting  of  the  Legislature,  and  within  every  success- 
ive period  of  ten  years.  The  term  for  which  Representatives  shall 
be  elected  shall  be  determined  by  the  Legislature  but  shall  not  exceed 
three  years.  There  shall  be  a  general  election  at  least  once  in  three 
years,  and  the  time  of  service  of  all  the  members  in  each  Assembly 
shall  begin,  (except  in  filling  vacancies)  on  the  same  day,  and  shall 
always  end  on  the  same  day. 

§4.  Forty  members  shall  make  a  House  sufiicient  to  proceed 
to  business;  but  their  number  may  be  increased  by  the  Legislature, 
yet  so  as  never  to  exceed  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  Rep- 
resentatives. 

§  5.  The  Assembly  shall  choose  its  President  and  other  Officers, 
shall  judge  of  the  qualifications  &,  elections  of  its  own  members, 
punish  them  for  improper  conduct  in  their  capacity  as  Representa- 
tives not  extending  to  life  or  limb;  and  shall  exclusively  possess  the 
power  of  impeachment  except  in  the  case  of  the  President  of  the 
United  States;  but  no  impeachment  of  a  member  of  the  Senate  shall 
be  by  less  than  two  thirds  of  the  Representatives  present. 

§.  6.  Representatives  may  vote  by  proxy;  but  no  Representa- 
tive  present  shall  be  proxy  for  more  than  one  who  is  absent.  [In 
margin:  "Quera?  (x  to  provide  for  distant  States)"]. 

§  7.  Bills  for  raising  revenue,  and  bills  for  appropriating  monies 
for  the  support  of  fleets  and  armies,  and  for  paying  the  salaries  of 
the  Officers  of  Government,  shall  originate  in  the  Assembly;  but  may 
be  altered  and  amended  by  the  Senate  — 

§  8.  The  acceptance  of  an  office  under  the  United  States  by  a 
Representative  shall  vacate  his  seat  in  the  Assembly. 


APPENDIX  F  621 

Article  III 

§  I.  The  Senate  shall  consist  of  persons  to  be  chosen,  except  in 
the  first  instance,  by  Electors  elected  for  that  purpose  by  the  Cit- 
izens and  inhabitants  of  the  several  States  comprehended  in  the 
Union  who  shall  have  in  their  own  right,  or  in  the  right  of  their  wifes, 
an  estate  in  land  for  not  less  than  life,  or  a  term  of  years,  whereof 
at  the  time  of  giving  their  votes  there  shall  be  at  least  fourteen  years 
unexpired. 

§  2.  But  the  first  Senate  shall  be  chosen  in  the  manner  pre- 
scribed in  the  last  Article  and  shall  consist  of  forty  members  to  be 
called  Senators,  of  whom  N.  Hampshire  shall  have  Massts. 

R.  Island  Connecticut  N.  York  N.  Jersey  Pena. 

Delaware  Maryld.  Virga.  N.  Carola.  S. 

Carol.         Geo. 

§  3.  The  Legislature  shall  provide  for  the  future  elections  of 
Senators,  for  which  purpose  the  States  respectively,  which  have 
more  than  one  Senator,  shall  be  divided  into  convenient  districts 
to  which  the  Senators  shall  be  apportioned.  A  State  having  but 
one  Senator  shall  be  itself  a  district.  On  the  death,  resignation  or 
removal  from  office  of  a  Senator  his  place  shall  be  supplied  by  a  new 
election  in  the  district  from  which  he  came.  Upon  each  election 
there  shall  be  not  less  than  six  nor  more  than  twelve  electors  chosen 
in  a  district 

§  4.  The  number  of  Senators  shall  never  be  less  than  forty,  nor 
shall  any  State,  if  the  same  shall  not  hereafter  be  divided,  ever  have 
less  than  the  number  allotted  to  it  in  the  second  section  of  this  article; 
but  the  Legislature  may  increase  the  whole  number  of  Senators,  in 
the  same  proportion  to  the  whole  number  of  Representatives  as 
forty  is  to  one  hundred;  and  such  increase  beyond  the  present  num- 
ber, shall  be  apportioned  to  the  respective  States  in  a  ratio  to  the 
respective  numbers  of  their  representatives. 

§  5.  If  States  shall  be  divided,  or  if  a  new  arrangement  of  the 
boundaries  of  two  or  more  States  shall  take  place,  the  Legislature 
shall  apportion  the  number  of  Senators  (in  elections  succeeding 
such  division  or  new  arrangement)  to  which  the  constituent  parts 
were  entitled  according  to  the  change  of  situation,  having  regard 
to  the  number  of  persons  described  in  the  4.  §  of  the  VII  article. 

§  6.  The  Senators  shall  hold  their  places  during  good  behaviour, 
removeable  only  by  conviction  on  impeachment  for  some  crime  or 
misdemeanor.  They  shall  continue  to  exercise  their  offices  when 
impeached  untiU  a  conviction  shall  take  place.  Sixteen  Senators 
attending  in  person  shall  be  sufficient  to  make  a  House  to  transact 


622     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

business,  but  the  Legislature  may  increase  this  number,  yet  so  as 
never  to  exceed  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  Senators.  The 
Senators  may  vote  by  proxy,  but  no  Senator  who  is  present  shall 
be  proxy  for  more  than  two  who  are  absent. 

§.  7.  The  Senate  shall  choose  its  President  and  other  Officers; 
shall  judge  of  the  qualifications  and  electons  of  its  members,  and 
shall  punish  them  for  improper  conduct  in  their  capacity  of  Senators; 
but  such  punishment  shall  not  extend  to  life  or  limb;  nor  to  expul- 
sion. In  the  absence  of  their  President  they  may  choose  a  temporary 
President.  The  President  shall  only  have  a  casting  vote  when  the 
House  is  equally  divided. 

§.  8.  The  Senate  shall  exclusively  possess  the  power  of  declaring 
war.  No  Treaty  shall  be  made  without  their  advice  and  consent; 
which  shall  also  be  necessary  to  the  appointment  of  all  officers,  except 
such  for  which  a  different  provision  is  made  in  this  Constitution 

Article  IV 

§  I.  The  President  of  the  United  States  of  America,  (except 
in  the  first  instance)  shall  be  elected  in  manner  following  —  The 
Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  shall  within  sixty  days  after  a  vacancy 
shall  happen,  cause  public  notice  to  be  given  in  each  State,  of  such 
vacancy,  appointing  therein  three  several  days  for  the  several  pur- 
poses following,  to  wit,  a  day  for  commencing  the  election  of  elec- 
tors for  the  purposes  hereinafter  specified,  to  be  called  the  first 
electors,  which  day  shall  not  be  less  than  forty,  nor  more  than  sixty 
days,  after  the  day  of  the  publication  of  the  notice  in  each  State 

another  day  for  the  meeting  of  the  electors  not  less  than  forty 

nor  more  than  ninety  days  from  the  day  for  commencing  their  elec- 
tion   another  day  for  the  meeting  of  electors  to  be  chosen  by 

the  first  electors,  for  the  purpose  hereinafter  specified,  and  to  be 
called  the  second  Electors,  which  day  shall  be  not  less  than  forty 
nor  more  than  sixty  days  after  the  meeting  of  the  first  electors. 

§.  2.  After  notice  of  a  vacancy  shall  have  been  given  there  shall 
be  chosen  in  each  State  a  number  of  persons,  as  the  first  electors  in 
the  preceding  section  mentioned,  equal  to  the  whole  number  of  the 
Representatives  and  Senators  of  such  State  in  the  Legislature  of 
the  United  States;  which  electors  shall  be  chosen  by  the  Citizens  of 
such  State  having  an  estate  of  inheritance  or  for  three  lives  in  land, 
or  a  clear  personal  estate  of  the  value  of  one  thousand  Spanish  milled 
dollars  of  the  present  Standard. 

§  3.  These  first  electors  shall  meet  in  their  respective  States 
at  the  time  appointed,  at  one  place;  and  shall  proceed  to  vote  by 
ballot  for  a  President,  who  shall  not  be  one  of  their  own  number, 


APPENDIX  F  623 

unless  the  Legislature  upon  experiment  should  hereafter  direct 
otherwise.  They  shall  cause  two  lists  to  be  made  of  the  name  or 
names  of  the  person  or  persons  voted  for,  which  they  or  the  major 
part  of  them  shall  sign  &  certify.  They  shall  then  proceed  each  to 
nominate  openly  in  the  presence  of  the  others,  two  persons  as  for 
second  electors,  and  out  of  the  persons  who  skill  have  the  four  high- 
est numbers  of  Nominations,  they  shall  afterwards  by  ballot  by  plu- 
rality of  votes  choose  two  who  shall  be  the  second  electors,  to  each 
of  whom  shall  be  delivered  one  of  the  lists  before  mentioned.  These 
second  electors  shall  not  be  any  of  the  persons  voted  for  as  Presi- 
dent. A  copy  of  the  same  list  signed  and  certified  in  like  manner 
shall  be  transmitted  by  the  first  electors  to  the  Seat  of  the  Govern- 
ment of  the  United  States,  under  a  sealed  cover  directed  to  the 
President  of  the  Assembly,  which  after  the  meeting  of  the  second 
electors  shall  be  opened  for  the  inspection  of  the  two  House  of  the 
Legislature 

§  4.  The  second  electors  shall  meet  precisely  on  the  day  appointed 
and  not  on  another  day,  at  one  place.  The  Chief  Justice  of  the  Su- 
preme Court,  or  if  there  be  no  Chief  Justice,  the  Judge  senior  in 
ofiice  in  such  Court,  or  if  there  be  no  one  Judge  senior  in  ofiice, 
some  other  Judge  of  that  Court,  by  the  choice  of  the  rest  of  the 
Judges  or  of  a  majority  of  them,  shall  attend  at  the  same  place  and 
shall  preside  at  the  meeting,  but  shall  have  no  vote.  Two  thirds 
of  the  whole  number  of  the  Electors  shall  constitute  a  sufficient 
meeting  for  the  execution  of  their  trust.  At  this  meeting  the  lists 
delivered  to  the  respective  electors  shall  be  produced  and  inspected, 
and  if  there  be  any  person  who  has  a  majority  of  the  whole  number 
of  votes  given  by  the  first  electors,  he  shall  be  the  President  of  the 
United  States;  but  if  there  be  no  such  person,  the  second  electors  so 
met  shall  proceed  to  vote,  by  ballot  for  one  of  the  persons  named 
in  the  lists  who  shall,  have  the  three  highest  numbers  of  the  votes 
of  the  first  electors;  and  if  upon  the  first  or  any  succeeding  ballot 
on  the  day  of  their  meeting,  either  of  those  persons  shall  have  a  num- 
ber of  votes  equal  to  a  majority  of  the  whole  number  of  second  elec- 
tors chosen,  he  shall  be  the  President.  But  if  no  such  choice  be  made 
on  the  day  appointed  for  the  meeting  either  by  reason  of  the  non- 
attendance  of  the  second  electors,  or  their  not  agreeing,  or  any  other 
matter,  the  person  having  the  greatest  number  of  votes  of  the  first 
electors  shall  be  the  President. 

§  5.  If  it  should  happen  that  the  Chief-Justice  or  some  other 
Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  should  not  attend  in  due  time,  the 
second  electors  shall  proceed  to  the  execution  of  their  trust  without 
bim. 


624     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION  \ 

§  6.  If  the  Judges  should  neglect  to  cause  the  notice  required 
by  the  first  section  of  this  article  to  be  given  within  the  time  therein 
limited,  they  may  nevertheless  cause  it  to  be  afterwards  given; 
but  their  neglect  if  wilful,  is  hereby  declared  to  be  an  offence  for 
which  they  may  be  impeached,  and  if  convicted  they  shall  be  pun- 
ished as  in  other  cases  of  conviction  on  impeachment. 

§  7.  The  Legislature  shall  by  permanent  laws  provide  such 
further  regulations  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  more  orderly  elec- 
tion of  the  President,  not  contravening  the  provisions  herein  con- 
tained. 

§  8.  The  President  before  he  shall  enter  upon  the  execution  of 
his  office  shall  take  an  oath  or  affirmation,  faithfully  to  execute  the 
same,  and  to  the  utmost  of  his  Judgment  &  power  to  protect  the 
rights  of  the  people,  and  preserve  the  Constitution  inviolate.  This 
oath  or  affirmation  shall  be  administered  by  the  President  of  the 
Senate  for  the  time  being  in  the  presence  of  both  Houses  of  the 
L^slature. 

§.  9.  The  Senate  and  the  Assembly  shall  always  convene  in  Ses- 
sion on  the  day  appointed  for  the  meeting  of  the  second  electors 
and  shall  continue  sitting  till  the  President  take  the  oath  or  affirma- 
tion of  office.  He  shall  hold  his  place  during  good  behavior,  remove- 
able  only  by  conviction  upon  an  impeachment  for  some  crime  or 
misdemeanor. 

§  10.  The  President  at  the  beginning  of  every  meeting  of  the 
Legislature  as  soon  as  they  shall  be  ready  to  proceed  to  business, 
shall  convene  them  together  at  the  place  where  tl^  Senate  shall 
sit,  and  shall  communicate  to  them  all  such  matters  as  may  be  neces- 
sary for  their  information,  or  as  may  require  their  consideration. 
He  may  by  message  during  the  Session  communicate  all  other  mat- 
ters which  may  appear  to  him  proper.  He  may,  whenever  in  his 
opinion  the  public  business  shall  require  it,  convene  the  Senate  and 
Assembly,  or  either  of  them,  and  may  prorogue  them  for  a  time  not 
exceeding  forty  days  at  one  prorogation;  and  if  they  should  disagree 
about  their  adjournment,  he  may  adjourn  them  to  such  time  as  he 
shall  think  proper.  He  shall  have  a  right  to  negative  all  bills. 
Resolutions  or  acts  of  the  two  Houses  of  the  Legislature  about  to 
be  passed  into  laws.  He  shall  take  care  that  the  laws  be  faithfully 
executed.  He  shall  be  the  commander  in  chief  of  the  army  and 
Navy  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  Militia  within  the  several 
States,  and  shall  have  the  direction  of  war  when  commenced,  but  he 
shall  not  take  the  actual  command  in  the  field  of  an  army  without 
the  consent  of  the  Senate  and  Assembly.  AH  treaties,  conventions 
and  agreements  with  foreign  nations  shall  be  made  by  him,  by  and 


APPENDIX  F  625 

with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Senate*  He  shall  have  the  ap- 
pointment of  the  principal  or  Chief  officer  of  each  of  the  departments 
of  War,  naval  Affairs,  Finance,  and  Foreign  Affairs;  and  shall  have 
the  nomination;  and  by  and  with  the  Consent  of  the  Senate,  the 
appointment  of  all  other  officers  to  be  appointed  under  the  author- 
ity of  the  United  States,  except  such  for  whom  different  provision 
is  made  by  this  Constitution;  and  provided  that  this  shall  not  be 
construed  to  prevent  the  Legislature,  from  appointing  by  name 
in  their  laws,  persons  to  special  &,  particular  trusts  created  in  such 
laws,  nor  shall  be  construed  to  prevent  principals  in  offices  merely 
ministerial,  from  constituting  deputies.  —  In  the  recess  of  the  Sen- 
ate he  may  fill  vacancies  in  offices  by  appointments  to  continue  in 
force  until  the  end  of  the  next  Session  of  the  Senate.  And  he  shall 
commission  all  Officers.  He  shall  have  power  to  pardon  all  offences 
except  treason,  for  which  he  may  grant  reprieves,  untill  the  opening 
of  the  Senate  &  Assembly  can  be  had;  and  with  their  concurrence 
may  pardon  the  same. 

§  II.  He  shall  receive  a  fixed  compensation  for  his  Services 
to  be  paid  to  him  at  stated  times,  and  not  to  be  increased  nor  dimin- 
ished during  his  continuance  in  office  - 

§  12.  If  he  depart  out  of  the  United  States  without  the  Consent 
of  the  Senate  and  Assembly,  he  shall  thereby  abdicate  his  office  - 

§.13.  He  may  be  impeached  for  any  crime  or  misdemeanor 
by  the  two  Houses  of  the  Legislature,  two  thirds  of  each  House  con- 
curring, and  if  convicted  shall  be  removed  from  office.  He  may 
be  afterwards  tried  &  punished  in  the  ordinary  course  of  law  -  His 
impeachment  shall  operate  as  a  suspension  from  office  until  the 
determination  thereof. 

§  14.  The  President  of  the  Senate  shall  be  vice  President  of  the 
United  States.  On  the  death,  resignation,  impeachment,  removal 
from  office,  or  absence  from  the  United  States,  of  the  President 
thereof,  the  Vice  President  shall  exercise  all  the  powers  by  this  Con- 
stitution vested  in  the  President,  until  another  shall  be  appointed, 
or  untill  he  shall  return  within  the  United  States,  if  his  absence  was 
with  the  Consent  of  the  Senate  and  Assembly. 

Article  V 

§  I.  There  shall  be  a  chief  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court,  who 
together  with  the  other  Judges  thereof,  shall  hold  their  offices  dur- 
ing good  behaviour,  reifioveable  only  by  conviction  on  impeachment 
for  some  crime  or  misdemeanor  -  Each  Judge  shall  have  a  compe- 
tent Salary  to  be  paid  to  him  at  stated  times,  and  not  to  be  dimin- 
ished during  his  continuance  in  office. 


626  RECOKBS  OF  TfiE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

The  Supreme  Court  shall  have  original  jurisdiction  in  all  causes 
in  which  the  United  States  shall  be  a  party,  in  all  controversies 
between  the  United  States,  and  a  particular  State,  or  between  two 
or  more  States,  except  such  as  relate  to  a  claim  of  territory  between 
the  United  States,  and  one  or  more  States,  which  shall  be  determined 
in  the  mode  prescribed  in  the  VI  article;  in  all  cases  affecting  foreign 
Ministers,  Consuls  and  Agents;  and  an  appellate  jurisdiction  both 
as  to  law  and  fact  in  all  cases  which  shall  concern  the  Citizens  of 
foreign  nations,  in  all  questions  between  the  Citizens  of  different 
States,  and  in  all  others  in  which  the  fundamental  rights  of  this 
Constitution  are  involved,  subject  to  such  exceptions  as  are  herein 
contained  and  to  such  regulations  as  the  Legislature  shall  provide. 

The  Judges  of  all  Courts  which  may  be  constituted  by  the  Legis- 
lature shall  also  hold  their  places  during  good  behaviour,  removeable 
only  by  conviction  on  impeachment  for  some  crime  or  misdemeanor, 
and  shall  have  competent  salaries  to  be  paid  at  stated  times  and  not 
to  be  diminished  during  their  continuance  in  office;  but  nothing 
herein  contained  shall  be  construed  to  prevent  the  Legislature  from 
abolishing  such  Courts  themselves. 

All  crimes,  except  upon  impeachment,  shall  be  tried  by  a  Jury 
of  twelve  men;  and  if  they  shall  have  been  committed  within  any 
State,  shall  be  tried  within  such  State;  and  all  civil  causes  arising 
under  this  Constitution  of  the  like  kind  with  those  which  have  been 
heretofore  triable  by  Jury  in  the  respective  States,  shall  in  like  man- 
ner be  tried  by  jury;  unless  in  special  cases  the  Legislature  shall 
think  proper  to  make  different  provision,  to  which  provision  the 
concurrence  of  two  thirds  of  both  Houses  shall  be  necessary. 

§  Impeachments  of  the  President  and  and  Vice  President 
of  the  U-  States,  members  of  the  Senate,  the  Govemours  and  Pres- 
idents of  the  several  States,  the  principal  or  chief  Officers  of  the 
Departments  enumerated  in  the  10  §.  of  the  4th.  Article,  Ambas- 
sadors and  other  like  public  Ministers,  the  Judges  of  the  Supreme 
Court,  Generals  and  Admirals  of  the  Navy  shall  be  tried  by  a  Court 
to  consist  of  the  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  and  the  Chief  Justice 
or  first  senior  Judge  of  the  superior  Court  of  law  in  each  State,  of 
whom  twelve  shall  constitute  a  Court.  A  majority  of  the  Judges 
present  may  convict.  All  other  persons  shall  be  tried  on  impeach- 
ment by  a  court  to  consist  of  the  Judges  of  the  supreme  Court  and 
six  Senators  drawn  by  lot,  a  majority  of  whom  may  convict. 

Impeachments  shall  clearly  specify  the  particular  offence  for 
which  the  party  accused  is  to  be  tried,  and  judgment  on  conviction 
upon  the  trial  thereof  shall  be  either  removal  from  office  singly,  or 
removal  from  office  and  disqualification  for  holding  any  future 


APPENDIX  F  627 

Office  or  place  of  trust;  but  no  Judgment  on  impeachment  shall 
prevent  prosecution  and  punishment  in  the  ordinary  course  of  law; 
provided  that  no  Judge  concerned  in  such  conviction  shall  sit  as 
Judge  on  the  second  trial.  The  Legislature  may  remove  the  dis- 
abilities incurred  by  conviction  on  impeachment. 

Article  VI 

Controversies  about  the  rights  of  territory  between  the  United 
States  and  particular  States  shall  be  determined  by  a  Court  to  be 
constituted  in  manner  following.  The  State  or  States  claiming  in 
opposition  to  the  United  States  as  parties  shall  nominate  a  number 
of  persons,  equal  to  double  the  number  of  Judges  of  the  Supreme 
Court  for  the  time  being,  of  whom  none  shall  be  citizens  by  birth 
of  the  States  which  are  parties,  nor  inhabitants  thereof  when  nomi- 
nated, and  of  whom  not  more  than  two  shall  have  their  actual  resi- 
dence in  one  State.  Out  of  the  persons  so  nominated  the  Senate 
shall  elect  one  half,  who  together  with  the  Judges  of  the  supreme 
Court,  shall  form  the  Court.  Two  thirds  of  the  whole  number  may 
hear  and  determine  the  controversy,  by  plurality  of  voices.  The 
States  concerned  may  at  their  option  claim  a  decision  by  the  Supreme 
Court  only.  All  the  members  of  the  Court  hereby  instituted,  shall, 
prior  to  the  hearing  of  the  Cause  take  an  Oath  impartially,  and 
according  to  the  best  of  their  judgments  and  consciences,  to  hear 
and  determine  the  controversy. 

Article  VII. 

§  I.  The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  have  power  to 
pass  all  laws  which  they  shall  judge  necessary  to  the  common  defence 
and  general  welfare  of  the  Union:  But  no  Bill,  Resolution,  or  act 
of  the  Senate  and  Assembly  shall  have  the  force  of  a  law  until  it 
shall  have  received  the  Assent  of  the  President,  or  of  the  vice-Pres- 
ident  when  exercising  the  powers  of  the  President;  and  if  such  assent 
shall  not  have  been  given  within  ten  days,  after  such  bill,  resolu- 
tion or  other  act  shall  have  been  presented  to  him  for  that  purpose, 
the  same  shall  not  be  a  law-  No  bill,  resolution  or  other  act  not 
assented  to  shall  be  revived  in  the  same  Session  of  the  Legislature. 
The  mode  of  signifying  such  assent,  shall  be  by  signing  the  bill  act 
of  resolution,  and  returning  it  so  signed  to  either  House  of  the  L^s- 
lature. 

§  2.  The  enacting  stile  of  a  laws  shall  be  ^'Be  it  enacted  by  the 
people  of  the  United  States  of  America". 

§  3.  No  bill  of  attainder  shall  be  passed,  nor  any  ex  post  facto 


628     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

law;  nor  shall  any  title  of  nobility  be  granted  by  the  United  States, 
or  by  either  of  them;  nor  shall  any  person  holding  an  office  or  place 
of  trust  under  the  United  States  without  the  permission  of  the  Legis- 
lature accept  any  present,  emolument  Office  or  title  from  a  foreign 
prince  or  State.  Nor  shall  any  Religious  Sect,  or  denomination,  or 
religious  test  for  any  office  or  place,  be  ever  established  by  law. 

§  4.  Taxes  on  lands,  houses  and  other  real  estate,  and  capi- 
tation taxes  shall  be  proportioned  in  each  State  by  the  whole  number 
of  free  persons,  except  Indians  not  taxed,  and  by  three  fifths  of  all 
other  persons. 

§.  5.  The  two  Houses  of  the  Legislature  may  by  joint  ballot 
appoint  a  Treasurer  of  the  United  States-  Neither  House  in  the 
Session  of  both  Houses,  without  the  consent  of  the  other  shall  adjourn 
for  more  than  three  days  at  a  time.  The  Senators  and  Representa- 
tives, in  attending,  going  to  and  coming  from  the  Session  of  their 
respective  houses  shall  be  privileged  from  arrest  except  for  crimes 
and  breaches  of  the  peace.  The  place  of  meeting  shall  always  be 
at  the  seat  of  Government  which  shall  be  fixed  by  law. 

§  6.  The  laws  of  the  United  States,  and  the  treaties  which  have 
been  made  under  the  articles  of  the  jconfederation,  and  which  shall 
be  made  under  this  Constitution  shall  be  the  supreme  law  of  the 
Land,  and  shall  be  so  construed  by  the  Courts  of  the  several  States. 

§  7.  The  Legislature  shall  convene  at  least  once  in  each  year, 
which  unless  otherwise  provided  for  by  law,  shall  be  the  first 
Monday  in  December. 

§  8.  The  members  of  the  two  Houses  of  the  Legislature  shall 
receive  a  reasonable  compensation  for  their  services,  to  be  paid  out 
of  the  Treasury  of  the  United  States  and  ascertained  by  law.  The 
law  for  making  such  provision  shall  be  passed  with  the  concurrence 
of  the  first  Assembly  and  shall  extend  to  succeeding  Assemblies; 
and  no  succeeding  Assembly  shall  concur  in  an  alteration  of  such 
provision,  so  as  to  increase  its  own  compensation;  but  there  shall  be 
always  a  law  in  existence  for  making  such  provision. 

Article  VHI 

§  I.  The  Govemour  or  President  of  each  State  shall  be  appointed 
under  the  authority  of  the  United  States,  and  shall  have  a  right  to 
negative  all  laws  about  to  be  passed  in  the  State  of  which  he  shall 
be  Govemour  or  President,  subject  to  such  qualifications  and  regu- 
taions,  as  the  Legislature  of  the  United  States  shall  prescribe-  He 
shall  in  other  respects  have  the  same  powers  only  which  the  Consti- 
tution of  the  State  does  or  shall  allow  to  its  Govemour  or  President, 
except  as  to  appointment  of  Officers  of  the  Militia. 


APPENDIX  F  629 

§  2.  Each  Govemour  or  President  of  a  State  shall  hold  his 
office  until  a  successor  be  actually  appointed,  unless  he  die,  or  resign 
or  be  removed  from  office  by  conviction  on  impeachment.  There 
shall  be  no  appointment  of  such  Governor  or  President  in  the  Recess 
of  the  Senate. 

The  Govemours  and  Presidents  of  the  several  States  at  the  time 
of  the  ratification  of  this  Constitution  shall  continue  in  office  in  the 
same  manner  and  with  the  same  powers  as  if  they  had  been  appointed 
pursuant  to  the  first  section  of  this  article. 

The  officers  of  the  Militia  in  the  several  States  may  be  appointed 
under  the  authority  of  the  U-  States;  the  Legislature  whereof  may 
authorize  the  Governors  or  Presidents  of  States  to  make  such  ap- 
pointments with  such  restrictions  as  they  shall  think  proper. 

Article  IX 

§.  I.  No  person  shall  be  eligible  to  the  office  of  President  of  the 
United  States  unless  he  be  now  a  Citizen  of  one  of  the  States,  or 
hereafter  be  bom  a  Citizen  of  the  United  States. 

§.  2.  No  person  shall  be  eligible  as  a  Senator  or  Representative 
unl(iss  at  the  time  of  his  election  he  be  a  Citizen  and  inhabitant  of 
the  State  in  which  he  is  chosen;  provided  that  he  shall  not  be  deemed 
to  be  disqualified  by  a  temporary  absence  from  the  State. 

§  3.  No  person  entitled  by  this  Constitution  to  elect  or  to  be 
elected  President  of  the  United  States,  or  a  Senator  or  Representa- 
tive in  the  Legislature  thereof,  shall  be  disqualified  but  by  the  con- 
viction of  some  offence  for  which  the  law  shall  have  previously 
ordained  the  punishment  of  disqualification.  But  the  Legislature 
may  by  law  provide  that  persons  holding  offices  under  the  United 
States  or  either  of  them  shall  not  be  eligible  to  a  place  in  the 
Assembly  or  Senate,  and  shall  be  during  their  continuance  in  office 
suspended  from  sitting  in  the  Senate. 

§  4.  No  person  having  an  office  or  place  of  trust  under  the  United 
States  shall  without  permission  of  the  Legislature  accept  any  present 
emolument  Office  or  title  from  any  foreign  Prince  or  State. 

§  5.  The  citizens  of  each  State  shall  be  entitled  to  the  rights 
privileges  and  immunities  of  citizens  in  every  other  State;  and  full 
faith  and  credit  shall  be  given  in  each  State  to  the  public  acts, 
records  and  judicial  proceedings  of  another. 

§  6.  Fugitives  from  justice  from  one  State  who  shall  be  found 
in  another  shall  be  delivered  up  on  the  application  of  the  State  from 
which  they  fled. 

§  7.  No  new  State  shall  be  erected  within  the  limits  of  another, 
or  by  the  junction  of  two  or  more  States,  without  the  concurrent 


630     RECORDS  OF  THE  FEDERAL  CONVENTION 

consent  of  the  Legislatures  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  States 
concerned.  The  Legislature  of  the  United  States  may  admit  new 
States  into  the  Union- 

§  8.  The  United  States  are  hereby  declared  to  be  bound  to  guar- 
antee to  each  State  a  Republican  form  of  Government,  and  to  pro- 
tect each  State  as  well  against  domestic  violence  as  foreign  invasion. 

§9.  All  Treaties,  Contracts  and  engagements  of  the  United 
States  of  America  under  the  articles  of  Confederation  and  perpetual 
Union,  shall  have  equal  validity  under  this  Constitution. 

§  10.  No  State  shall  enter  into  a  Treaty,  alliance,  or  contract 
with  another,  or  with  a  foreign  power  without  the  consent  of  the 
United  States 

§  II.  The  members  of  the  Legislature  of  the  United  States  and 
of  each  State,  and  all  officers  Executive  8c  Judicial  of  the  one  and  of 
the  other  shall  take  an  oath  or  affirmation  to  support  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States  - 

§  12.  This  Constitution  may  receive  such  alterations  and  amend- 
ments as  may  be  proposed  by  the  Legislature  of  the  United  States, 
with  the  concurrence  of  two  thirds  of  the  members  of  both  Houses, 
and  ratified  by  the  Legislatures  of,  or  by  Conventions  of  deputies 
chosen  by  the  people  in,  two  thirds  of  the  States  composing  the 
Union. 

Article  X 

This  Constitution  shall  be  submitted  to  the  consideration  of 
Conventions  in  the  several  States,  the  members  whereof  shall  be 
chosen  by  the  people  of  such  States  respectively  under  the  direc- 
tion of  their  respective  Legislatures-  Each  Convention  which  shall 
ratify  the  same,  shall  appoint  the  first  representatives  and  Senators 
from  such  State  according  to  the  rule  prescribed  in  the  §  of 
the  Article.  The  representatives  so  appointed  shall  continue  in 
office  for  one  year  only.  Each  Convention  so  ratifying  shall  give 
notice  thereof  to  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  transmitting  at 
the  same  time  a  list  of  the  Representatives  and  Senators  chosen. 
When  the  Constitution  shall  have  been  duly  ratified.  Congress  shall 
give  notice  of  a  day  and  place  for  the  meeting  of  the  Senators  and 
Representatives  from  the  several  States;  and  when  these  or  a 
majority  of  them  shall  have  assembled  according  to  such  notice, 
they  shall  by  joint  ballot,  by  plurality  of  votes,  elect  a  President 
of  the  United  States;  and  the  Constitution  thus  organized  shall  be 
carried  into  effect. 


INDEX 
BY  CXAUSES  OF  THE  CONSTITUTION 


\ 


INDEX 
BY  CLAUSES  OF  THE  CONSTITUTION 

The  references  attached  to  the  various  clauses  of  the 
Constitution  are  intended  to  include  every  item  in  the  pre- 
ceding volumes  explanatory  of  the  development  of  those 
clauses  and  their  embodiment  in  the  Constitution.  Owing 
to  the  character  of  the  work  many  of  the  items  are  merely 
copies  or  repetitions  of  others.  All  such  repetitions,  together 
with  items  of  slight  importance  or  only  indirectly  bearing  on 
the  clause  in  question,  have  been  enclosed  in  parentheses. 
Some  clauses  were  in  early  drafts  but  were  dropped  out  of 
the  final  draft  of  the  Constitution;  these  may  be  traced 
through  the  General  Index. 

[Preamble] 

We  the  People  of  the  United  States,  in  Order  to  form  a  more 
perfect  Union,  establish  Justice,  insure  domestic  Tranquility,  pro- 
vide for  the  common  defence,  promote  the  general  Welfare,  and 
secure  the  Blessings  of  Liberty  to  ourselves  and  our  Posterity,  do 
ordain  and  establish  this  Constitution  for  the  United  States  of 
America. 

I,  20,  (27),  30,  (33,  35,  38,  39,  40,  41,  22s),  228,  (23s),  242,  (247), 
322,  (328,  334),  335,  (344).  II,  (129),  134,  137,  150,  152,  163,  177, 
(193),  196,  (209),  565,  590,  651.     Ill,  (146). 

Article.  I. 

Section  i.  All  legislative  Powers  .  .  .  vested  in  a  Con- 
gress .  .  .  which  shall  consist  of  a  Senate  and  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives. 

I,  20,  (27,  45),  48,  (54,  55,  57,  60,  225),  228,  (235,  291),  336, 
(344,  349,  350,  353),  3SS,  (362,  366).  II,  129,  (135),  138,  (150), 
IS*,  (iSS),  163,  177,  (193),  196,  (206),  565,  590,  651.  Ill,  (155, 
169),  191,  (340),  517. 

633 


634  INDEX   BY   CLAUSES   OF   CONSTITUTION 

Section  2.  [Cause  i].  The  House  of  Representatives  shall  be 
composed  of  Members  chosen  every  second  Year  by  the  People  of 
the  several  States,  and  the  Electors  in  each  State  shall  have  the 
Qualifications  requisite  for  Electors  of  the  most  numerous  Branch 
of  the  State  Legislature. 

I,  20,  (27,  46),  48,  (54,  ss,  56,  60,  130),  132,  (140,  142,  14s, 
147,  209),  214,  (220,  22s),  228,  (23s,  291,  353),  358,  (364,  367,  368)- 
II,  129,  (13s),  139,  151,  IS3,  163,  178,  (i94)j  201,  206,  209,  (213), 

215,  (2^S)»  56S»  590,  651.    Ill,   146,  H7' 

[Clause  2].  No  Person  shall  be  a  Representative  who 
shall  not  have  attained  to  the  Age  of  twenty  five  Years,  and  been 
seven  Years  a  Citizen  of  the  United  States,  and  who  shall  not,  when 
elected,  be  an  Inhabitant  of  that  State  in  which  he  shall  be  chosen. 

I,  20,  (210),  2x5,  (221,  370),  375,  (379).  II,  (116),  121,  129, 
I34>  I39>  IS3>  164,  178,  (213),  216,  (225,  226,  265),  267,  (281),  565, 
590,  651.     Ill,  147. 

[Qause  3].  Representatives  and  direct  Taxes  shall 
be  apportioned  among  the  several  States  .  .  .  according  to  their 
respective  Numbers,  which  shall  be  determined  by  adding  to  the 
whole  Number  of  free  Persons  .  .  .  three  fifths  of  all  other  Persons.  >/ 
The  actual  Enumeration  shall  be  made  within  three  Years  after 
the  first  Meeting  of  the  Congress  of  the  United  States,  and  within 
every  subsequent  Term  of  ten  Years,  in  such  Manner  as  they  shall 
by  Law  direct.  The  Number  of  Representatives  shall  not  exceed 
one  for  every  thirty  Thousand,  .  .  .  and  until  such  enumeration 
shall  be  made,  the  State  of  New  Hampshire  shall  be  entitled  to  chuse, 
three,  Massachusetts  eight,  .  .  .  and  Georgia  three. 

I,  (31),  3S»  (39,  40»  163,  169),  176,  (181,  184,  192),  196,  (204, 
207,  227),  229,  (236),  243,  (247),  436,  (438,  442,  444),  445,  (455,  458, 
459,  460),  461,  470,  (476,  479,  523,  524)1  526,  (535-538),  540,  (557), 
559,  (563),  566,  572,  573,  (575),  578,  589,  591,  (597,  598),  600.  II, 
2,  (12),  13,  (15),  106,  130,  135,  139,  142,  153,  164,  168,  178,  182. 
(213),  219,  (339),  350,  (351,  352),  356,  (365),  553,  566,  571,  590,  (605, 
607,  612),  623,  644,  (649),  651.  Ill,  83,  99,  143,  (146,  147,  152, 
155)1  159,  (169,  174),  181, 197,  (249),  253,  255,  (260,  264,  333>  336), 
342,  352,  (358,  364),  365,  404,  (416),  428,  440. 

[Clause  4].  When  vacancies  happen  in  the  Repre- 
sentation from  any  State,  the  Executive  Authority  thereof  shall 
issue  Writs  of  Election  to  fill  such  Vacancies. 

II,  140,  154,  164,  179,  (227),  231,  (243),  566,  591,  652. 

[Clause  5].  The  House  of  Representatives  shall 
chuse  their  Speaker  and  other  Officers;  and  shall  have  the  90!^  Po^yet 
of  Impeachment. 


ARTICLE    I,    SECTION    3,    CLAUSE   6  635 

^  II,   136,  154,  158,  159,  164,  165,  178,  (227),  231,  (243),  566, 

591, 652. 

Section  3.  [Clause  i].  The  Senate  .  .  .  composed  of  two 
Senators  from  each  State,  chosen  by  the  Legislature  thereof,  for  six 
Years;  and  each  Senator  shall  have  one  Vote. 

I,  20,  (28,  31),  35,  (39,  40,  46),  51  (55),  58,  (61,  148),  150,  (156, 
158,  160,  193),  201,  (206,  211),  218,  (221,  225,  227),  228,  230,  (235, 
236,  291,  395),  404,  408,  412,  (416,  418),  421,  430,  (435,  460),  468, 
474,  (477,  480),  482,  494i  (502,  503,  507,  509),  Sio»  (516,  523,  524), 
526,  (535),  549,  (553,  555)-  H,  (i),  3,  (12),  14,  (16),  17,  19,  (85),^ 
94,  129,  131,  133,  (135),  141,  154,  165,  179,  (228),  231,  (243),  291, 

566,  59i>  652.  HI,  (99,  loi,  133),  135,  (151,  154,  155,  169,  177), 
188,  (194,  243,  249),  252,  (264,  270),  304,  337,  359,  (400,  414,  416), 

483,  498,  538,  554,  575- 

[Clause  2.]     [Rotation  in  Term]   so  that  one  third 

may  be  chosen  every  second  Year;  and  if  Vacancies  happen  by 
Resignation,  or  otherwise,  during  the  Recess  of  the  Legislature  of 
any  State,  the  Executive  thereof  may  make  temporary  Appoint- 
ments until  the  next  Meeting  of  the  Legislature,  which  shall  then 
fill  such  Vacancies. 

I,  (396),  408,  415,  (418),  421,  (435)-  n,  129,  (135),  141,  154, 
165,  179,  (227,  228),  231,  235,  (242,  243),  566,  591,  610,  612,. 652. 
Ill,   147,  337. 

[Clause  3].  No  Person  shall  be  a  Senator  who  shall 
not  have  attained  to  the  Age  of  thirty  Years,  and  been  nine  Years  a 
Citizen  of  the  United  States,  and  who  shall  not,  when  elected,  be  an 
inhabitant  of  that  State  for  which  he  shall  be  chosen. 

I,  20,  (211),  217,  (221,  228),  235,  395,  (408,  415,  435).  II,  (116), 
121,  129,  (134),  141,  154,  165,  179,  (228),  235,  (242,  243,  266),  272, 
(281),  567,  591,  652. 

[Clause  4].  The  Vice-President  .  .  .  shall  be  Presi- 
den  of  the  Senate,  but  shall  have  no  Vote,  unless  they  be  equally 
divided. 

n,  (495),  498,  (532),  536,  574,  592,  (610),  612,  652.  Ill,  343 
400. 

[Clause  5].  The  Senate  shall  chuse  their  other 
OiEcers,  and  also  a  President  pro  tempore,  in  the  Absence  of  the 
Vice-President,  .  .   . 

II,  155,  158,  165,  179,  (229),   239,  (244,  495),  498,  (532),  538, 

567,  574>  592,  653. 

[Clause  6].  The  Senate  shall  have  the  sole  Power  to 
try  all  Impeachments.    When  sitting  for  that  Purpose,  they  shall 


636  INDEX   BY  CLAUSES   OF   CONSTITUTION 

be  on  Oath  or  Affirmation.  When  the  President  of  the  United  States 
is  tried,  the  Chief  Justice  shall  preside:  And  no  Person  shall  be  con- 
victed without  the  Concurrence  of  two  thirds  of  the  Members  present. 

I,  224,  231,  (232,  237,  238),  244,  (247,  292).  II,  (39,  46,  136, 
147,  157),  IS9,  172,  186,  (367,  423,  430,  493,  495),  497,  498,  499, 
(532),  536,  (S47),  552,  572,  574,  592,  (610),  612,  653.  in,  148,  250, 
406,  528. 

[Qause  7].  Judgment  in  Cases  of  Impeachment 
shall  not  extend  further  than  to  removal  from  Office,  and  disquali- 
fication to  hold  and  enjoy  any  Office  of  honor,  Trust  or  Profit 
under  the  United  States:  but  the  Party  convicted  shall  neverthe- 
less be  liable  and  subject  to  Indictment,  Trial,  Judgment  and  Punish* 
ment,  according  to  Law. 

II,  173,  187,  (435),  438,  576,  592,  612,  653.    Ill,  407. 

Section  4.  [Clause  i].  The  Times,  Places  and  Manner  of  hold- 
ing Elections  for  Senators  and  Representatives,  shall  be  prescribed 
in  each  State  by  the  Legislature  thereof;  but  the  Congress  may  at 
any  time  by  Law  make  or  alter  such  Regulations,  except  as  to  the 
Places  of  chusing  Senators. 

n,  135,  I39»  ^SSf  165,  179,  (229),  239,  (244),  567,  592,  613, 
653.     Ill,  (195),  267,  311,  (319),  344,  (359). 

[Qause  2].  The  Congress  shall  assemble  at  least 
once  in  every  Year,  and  such  Meeting  shall  be  on  the  first  Monday 
in  December,  unless  they  shall  by  Law  appoint  a  different  Day. 

n,  135,  163,  177.  (194)1  197,  (206,  209),  565,  592,  653. 

Section  5.  [Clause  1].  Each  House  shall  be  the  Judge  of  the 
Elections,  Returns  and  Qualifications  of  its  own  Members,  and  a 
Majority  of  each  shall  constitute  a  Quorum  to  do  Business;  but  a 
smaller  Number  may  adjourn  from  day  to  day,  and  may  be  author- 
ized to  compel  the  Attendance  of  absent  Members,  in  such  Manner, 
and  under  such  Penalties  as  each  House  may  provide. 

II,  140,  141,  155,  165,  166,  180,  (24s),  251,  (256),  567,  592,653. 
[Clause  2].  Each  House  may  determine  the  Rules 
of  its  Proceedings,  punish  its  Members  for  disorderly  Behaviour, 
and,  with  the  Concurrence  of  two  thirds,  expel  a  Member. 

II,  140,  141,  156,  158,  166,  180,  (246),  254,  (256),  567,  592,  653. 
[Clause  3].  Each  House  shall  keep  a  Journal  of  its 
Proceedings,  and  from  time  to  time  publish  the  same,  excepting  such 
Parts  as  may  in  their  Judgment  require  Secrecy;  and  the  Yeas  and 
Nays  of  the  Members  of  either  House  on  any  question  shall,  at  the 
Desire  of  one  fifth  of  those  Present,  be  entered  on  the  Journal. 


ARTICLE  I,  SECTION  7,  CLAUSE  2         637 

II,   156,  x66,  180,  (246),  254,  (257),  259,  (264),  568,  592,  613, 

653.  Ill,  311,  345. 

[Clause  4].  Neither  House  .  .  .  shall  .  .  .  adjourn 
for  more  than  three  days,  nor  to  any  other  Place  than  that  in  which 
the  two  Houses  shall  be  sitting. 

II,   140,  142,  156,  158,  166,  180,  (258),  260,  (293),  568,  593, 

654.  Ill,  312. 

Section  6.  [Qause  i].  The  Senators  and  Representatives  shall 
receive  a  Compensation  for  their  Services,  to  be  ascertained  by  Law, 
and  paid  out  of  the  Treasury  of  the  United  States.  They  shall  in 
all  Cases,  except  Treason,  Felony  and  Breach  of  the  Peace,  be 
privileged  from  Arrest  during  their  Attendance  at  the  Session  of 
their  respective  Houses,  and  in  going  to  and  returning  from  the  same; 
and  for  any  Speech  or  Debate  in  either  House,  they  shall  not  be 
questioned  in  any  other  Place. 

I,  20,  (210,  211),  215,  219,  (221,  222),  228,  229,  (235,  369), 
371,  (383),  38s,  391,  (418),  426,  (433).  II,  129,  140,  141,  142, 
156,  166,  180,  (246),  254,  (256,  282),  290,  (293),  334,  (341),  568, 
593,  654.    Ill,   148,  312,  384. 

[Clause  2].  No  Senator  or  Representative  shall, 
during  the  Time  for  which  he  was  elected,  be  appointed  to  any  civil 
Office  under  the  Authority  of  the  United  States,  which  shall  have 
been  created,  or  the  Emoluments  whereof  shall  have  been  encreased 
during  such  time;  and  no  Person  holding  any  Office  under  the  United 
States,  shall  be  a  Member  of  either  House  during  his  Continuance 
in  Office. 

I,   20,  21,  (210,  211),  217,  (219,  221,  222),  228,  229,  (235,  370), 

375,  379,  (383),  386,  391,  (419),  428,  (434,  435)-  H,  129,  130,  140, 
141,  155,  166,  180,  (282),  283,  (293),  483,  (484,  486),  489,  568,  593, 
613,  654.     Ill,   (148,  155),  200,  313,  354. 

Section  7.  [Clause  i].  All  Bills  for  raising  Revenue  shall 
originate  in  the  House  of  Representatives;  but  the  Senate  may  pro- 
pose or  concur  with  Amendments  as  on  other  Bills. 

I,  (224),  233,  (238,  523,  524),  526,  (535,  538),  543.  II,  3,  (12), 
14,  (16),  131,  144,  IS4,  164,  178,  191,  210,  (214),  223,  (226,  258), 
262,  (264,  266),  273,  (294),  297,  (505),  508,  509,  514,  (545),  552, 
568,  593,  654.        Ill,   148,  (156),  201,  265,  317,  (356,  416). 

[Qause  2].  Every  Bill  .  .  .  shall  [be  subject  to 
Veto  of  President  and  reconsideration  by  Congress].  ...  If  after 
such  Reconsideration  two  thirds  .  .  .  shall  agree  to  pass  the  Bill 
...  it  shall  become  a  Law.     If  any  Bill  shall  not  be  returned  by 


638  INDEX  BY  CLAUSES  OF   CONSTITUTION 

the  President  within  ten  Days  (Sundays  excepted)  after  it  shall 
have  been  presented  to  him,  the  Same  shall  be  a  Law,  in  like 
Manner  as  if  he  had  signed  it,  unless  the  Congress  by  their 
Adjournment  prevent  its  Return,  in  which  Case  it  shall  not  be 
a  Law. 

I,  21,  (28,  94),  97,  (los,  107,  109),  no,  (131),  138,  (141,  144, 
226),  230,  (236,  292).  II,  (71),  73,  132,  (13s),  146,  160,  167,  181, 
294,  298,  (302),  568,  (582),  58s,  (589),  593,  654.  Ill,  (133,  148), 
202,  (38s),  494. 

[Clause  3].  Every  Order,  Resolution,  or  Vote  .  .  . 
shall  [be  subject  to  Veto  of  President]  according  to  the  Rules  and 
Limitations  prescribed  in  the  Case  of  a  Bill. 

n,   (29s),  301,  (302),  304,  569,  594,  655. 

Section  8.    The  Congress  shall  have  Power 

I,  21,  (47),  S3,  (56,  61,  225),  229,  (236),  243,  (247).  II,  (14), 
17,  (21),  25,  131,  (151),  321,  (325).    Ill,  99,  268,  526. 

[Clause  i].  To  lay  and  collect  Taxes,  Duties, 
Imposts  and  Excises,  to  pay  the  Debts  and  provide  for  the 
common  Defence  and  general  Welfare  of  the  United  States;  but  all 
Duties,  Imposts,  and  Excises  shall  be  uniform  throughout  the 
United  States; 

I,  243,  (247).  II,  13s,  142,  157,  (158),  167,  181,  211,  (303), 
305,  (322),  326,  366,  378,  (382),  392,  (408,  410),  412,  414,  418, 

434»  (437),  470,  (473),  481,  493,  495,  (497,  499,  S03),  5^9,  S69,  57h 
594,  (610),  614,  655.    Ill,  84,  99,  149,  (156,  169),  203,  213,  309, 

365,  456,  483,  547. 

[Clause  2].  To  borrow  Money  on  the  credit  of  the 
United  States; 

II,  144, 168, 182,  (303, 308, 311),  569, 594, 655.  ni,  205. 

[Clause  3].  To  regulate  Commerce  with  foreign 
Nations,  and  among  the  several  States,  and  with  the  Indian  tribes; 

II,  135,  143,  157,  (158,  159),  167,  181,  (304),  308,  (321),  324, 
367,  493,  495,  (497,  499,  503),  569,  595,  (610),  655.    Ill,  477,  478, 

518,  547. 

[Clause  4].  To  establish  an  uniform  Rule  of  Natural- 
ization, and  uniform  Laws  on  the  subject  of  Bankruptcies  through- 
out the  United  States; 

I,  245,  (247).  II,  144,  158,  167,  182,  (304),  308,  (445),  447, 
483,  (484,  486),  489,  569,  570,  595,  655.    Ill,  359,  380,  548. 

[Qause  5].  To  coin  Money,  regulate  the  Value 
thereof,  and  of  foreign  Coin,  and  fix  the  Standard  of  Weights  and 
Measures; 


ARTICLE  I,  SECTION  8,  CLAUSE  l6        639 

II,   136,  143,  144,  159,  167,  182,  (304),  308,  569,  S9S,  655. 

[Clause  6].    To  provide  for  the  Punishment  of  counter^ 
feiting  the  Securities  and  current  Coin  of  the  United  States; 
II,   144,  168,  182,  (312),  316,  (320),  570,  S9S,  655. 

[Clause  7].    To  establish  Post  Offices  and  post  Roads; 
II,   13s,  144,  IS9,  168,  182,  (303),  304,  (311),  569,  S9S,  61S, 
(620),  655. 

[Qause  8].    To  promote  the  Progress  of  Science  and 
useful  Arts,  by  securing  for  limited  Time  to  Authors  and  Inventors 
the  exclusive  Right  to  their  respective  Writings  and  Discoveries; 
II,   (321,  322),  32s,  (505),  509,  570,  S9S,  655.     Ill,  (122). 

[Clause  9].  To  constitute  Tribunals  inferior  to  the 
supreme  Court; 

I,  (118),  I2S,  (127,  226),  231,  (237,  292).     II,  (38),  45,  133,  144, 
168,  x82,  (313),  315,  (320),  570,  595,  655.    Ill,  206, 

[Clause  10].  To  define  and  punish  Piracies  and 
Felonies  committed  on  the  high  Seas,  and  Offences  against  the  Law 
of  Nations; 

II,  143,  168,  182,  (312),  315,  (320),  570,  595,614,655.    III,33»- 

[Clause  11].  To  declare  War,  grant  Letters  of  Marque 
and  Reprisal,  and  make  Rules  concerning  Captures  on  Land  and 
Water; 

II,   143,  144,  168,  182,  (313),  315,  318,  (320,  322),  326,  328, 

(333),  505,  (S08),  570,  S9S>  655.    in,  405. 

[Clause  12].  To  raise  and  support  Armies,  but  no 
Appropriation  of  Money  to  that  Use  shall  be  for  a  longer  Term  than 
two  Years; 

II,   143,  158,  168,  182,  (323),  329,  (333),  334,  (341,  505),  508, 
509,  570,  595,  (633),  635,  656.    Ill,  207,  319. 

[Clause  13].    To  provide  and  maintain  a  Navy; 
II,  143,  158,  168,  182,  (323),  330,  (333),  570,  595,  656. 

[Clause  14].  To  make  Rules  for  the  Government  and 
Regulation  of  the  land  and  naval  Forces; 

n,   (323),  330.  (333),  S70,  595,  656. 

[Qause  15].  To  provide  for  calling  forth  the  Militia 
to  execute  the  Laws  of  the  Union,  suppress  Insurrections,  and  repel 
Invasions; 

I,  21,  47,  54,  61,  245,  (247).     II,  144,  (159),  168,  182,  (337), 
344,  (382),  389,  570,  595,  656.     Ill,  148,  (157),  207,  285,  318,  527. 

[Clause  16].  To  provide  for  organizing,  arming,  and 
disciplining  the  Militia,  and  for  governing  such  Part  of  them  as 
may  be  employed  in  the  Service  of  the  United  States,  reserving  to 
the  States  respectively,  the  Appointment  of  the  Officers,  and  the 


640  INDEX   BY   CLAUSES   OF   CONSTITUTION 

Authority  of  training  the  Militia  according  to  the  discipline  pre- 
scribed  by  Congress; 

I,  (292).    II,  (13s),  136,  IS9,  168,  (323),  330,  (352),  356,  (368), 

377,  (380),  384,  (394),  S70,  S9S»  (616),  656.    Ill,  118,  (157),  208. 

JiS9,  (319)1  370,  4«>- 

[Clause  17].    To  exercise  exclusive  Legislation  .  .  . 

over  .  .  .  the  Seat  of  the  Government  .  .  .  and  to  exercise  like 
Authority  over  all  Places  purchased  by  the  Consent  of  the  Legisla- 
ture of  the  State  in  which  the  Same  shall  be,  for  the  Erection  of 
Forts,  Magazines,  Arsenals,  dock- Yards,  and  other  needful  Build- 
ings; 

II,  (117),  127,  (321),  32s,  (505,  506),  509,  sio,  S70,  S9Sy  656. 
Ill,   122,408. 

[Gause  18].  To  make  all  Laws  which  shall  be 
necessary  and  proper  for  carrying  into  Execution  the  foregoing 
Powers  •  •  • 

II,   144,  168,  182,  (337),  344,  570,  596,  656.    Ill,  239. 

Section  9.  [Qause  i].  The  Migration  or  Importation  of  such 
Persons  .  .  .  shall  not  be  prohibited  by  the  Congress  prior  to  the 
Year  one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  eight,  but  a  Tax  or  duty  may 
be  imposed  on  such  Importation,  not  exceeding  ten  dollars  for  each 
Person. 

II,    (9S),  143,  169,  183,  220,  (354),  364,  (366),  369,  (378,  396), 

400,  (408),  41S,  (446)>  449»  S7^f  596,  610,  656.     Ill,  84,  135,  (149), 

160,  (i6s),  210,  253,  3*4>  (33^)»  334,  34^,  355,  360,  361,  367,  376» 

4361  438,  439,  44^- 

[Qause  2].    The  Privilege  of  the  Writ  of  Habeas 

Corpus  shall  not  be  suspended,  unless  when  in  Cases  of  Rebellion 
or  Invasion  the  public  Safety  may  require  it. 

n»  (334)>  341,  (43S)i  438,  576,  596,  656.  Ill,  (149,  157), 
ai3,  (290). 

[Qause  3].     No  Bill  of  Attainder  or  ex  post  facto 

Law  shall  be  passed. 

n,   (368),  375,  (378),  448,  571,  596, 610,  (617),  656.    Ill,  (165). 

[Qause  4].  No  Capitation,  or  other  direct,  Tax 
shall  be  laid,  unless  in  Proportion  to  the  Census  •   .  . 

II,  143,  169,  183,  366,  (374,  378,  396),  400,  (409),  417,  572, 
596,  (610),  618,  656.     Ill,  83,  149,  360. 

[Qause  5].  No  Tax  or  Duty  shall  be  laid  on  Articles 
exported  from  any  State. 

I,  592.  II,  95,  142,  143,  168,  183,  (303),  305,  (354),  359,  (36s), 
374.  571,  596,  657-    ni,  149. 


I 
i 


ARTICLE  I,  SECTION  lO,  CLAUSE  3        64I 

[Clause  6].  No  Preference  shall  be  given  by  any 
Regulation  of  Commerce  or  Revenue  to  the  Ports  of  one  State  over 
those  of  another:  nor  shall  Vessels  bound  to,  or  from,  one  State,  be 
obliged  to  enter,  clear,  or  pay  Duties  in  another. 

II,  378,  (410),  417,  420,  470,  (473),  480,  482,  S7I,  596,  (610) 
618,  657.    Ill,  149,  (157),  213,  365. 

[Clause  7].  No  Money  shall  be  drawn  from  the 
Treasury,  but  in  Consequence  of  Appropriations  made  by  Law;  and 
a  regular  Statement  and  Account  of  the  Receipts  and  Expenditures 
of  all  public  Money  shall  be  published  from  time  to  time. 

I,  (S^3h  5^4,  (526),  538.  II,  (12),  14,  (16),  IS4,  164,  178,  280, 
(505),  509>  568,  596,  (610),  618,  657.    Ill,  (149),  311,  326. 

[Clause  8].  No  Title  of  Nobility  shall  be  granted  by 
the  United  States:  And  no  Person  holding  any  Office  of  Profit  or 
Trust  under  them,  shall,  without  the  Consent  of  the  Congress, 
accept  of  any  present,  Emolument,  Office,  or  Title,  of  any  kind 
whatever,  from  any  King,  Prince,  or  foreign  State. 

II,  169,  183,  (381),  389,  572,  596,  657.    Ill,  ISO,  327. 

Section  10.  [Clause  i].  No  State  shall  enter  into  any  Treaty, 
Alliance,  or  Confederation;  grant  Letters  of  Marque  and  Reprisal; 
coin  Money;  emit  Bills  of  Credit;  make  any  Thing  but  gold  and 
silver  Coin  a  Tender  in  Payment  of  Debts;  pass  any  Bill  of 
Attainder,  ez  post  facto  Law,  or  Law  impairing  the  Obligation  of 
Contracts,  or  grant  any  Title  of  Nobility. 

II,  13s,  144,  169,  187,  (43s),  439,  (444),  577,  596,  (610),  619, 
636,  657.    Ill,  100,  150,  214,  328,  349,  495,  547,  548. 

[Clause  2].  No  State  shall,  without  the  Consent  of 
the  Congress,  lay  any  Imposts  or  Duties  on  Imports  or  Exports, 
except  what  may  be  absolutely  necessary  for  executing  it's  inspec- 
tion Laws:  and  the  net  Produce  of  all  Duties  and  Imposts,  laid 
by  any  State  on  Imports  or  Exports,  shall  be  for  the  Use  of  the 
Treasury  of  the  United  States;  and  all  such  Laws  shall  be  subject 
to  the  Revision  and  Controul  of  the  Congress. 

II,  13s,  143,  169,  187,  (435),  441,  442,  (444),  577,  (583),  588, 
597,  (605),  607,  624,  657.     Ill,  215,  268,  328,  519,  547. 

[Clause  3].  No  State  shall,  without  the  Consent  of 
Congress,  lay  any  Duty  of  Tonnage,  keep  Troops,  or  Ships  of  War  in 
time  of  Peace,  enter  into  any  Agreement  or  Compact  with  another 
State,  or  with  a  foreign  Power,  or  engage  in  War,  unless  actually 
invaded,  or  in  such  imminent  Danger  as  will  not  admit  of  delay. 

II,  135,  169,  187,  442,  504,  577,  597,  625,  633,  634,  657.  Ill, 
548. 


t 

i 


642  INDEX   BY   CLAUSES   OF  CONSTITUTION  ] 

Article.  II.  I 

Section  i.  [Cause  i].  The  Executive  Power  shall  be  vested  in 
a  President  of  the  United  States  of  America.    He  shall  hold  his  | 

Office  during  the  term  of  four  Years,  ... 

I,  21,  (28,  63),  64,  (70,  72,  73,  78,  79),  88,  (90,  92,  93),  96, 
(105,  106,  109,  226),  230,  (236),  244,  (247,  292).    II,  22,  (23,  29),  , 

33»  (so),  SI,  S2»  58,  (97),  102,  (107),  112,  (116),  118,  132,  134,  (13s), 
14s,  (158)1  I7if  i8S»  (396),  401,  (493),  497,  57^  597,  657.  Ill,  132, 
(169),  216,  2SS,  (298),  329,  (338),  346,  (354). 

[Qauses  1-4].  Each  State  shall  appoint,  in  such 
Manner  as  the  L^islature  thereof  may  direct,  a  Number  of 
Electors,  equal  to  the  whole  number  of  Senators  and  Representa- 
tives to  which  the  State  may  be  entitled  in  the  Congress:  but  no 
Senator  or  Representative,  or  Person  holding  an  Office  of  Trust  or 
Profit  under  the  United  States,  shall  be  appointed  an  Elector. 

The  Electors  shall  meet  in  their  respective  States,  and  vote 
by  Ballot  for  two  Persons,  of  whom  one  at  least  shall  not  be  an 
Inhabitant  of  the  same  State  with  themselves.  .  .  .  The  Person 
having  the  greatest  Number  of  votes  shall  be  the  President,  if  such 
Number  be  a  Majority  of  the  whole  Number  of  Electors  appointed; 
•  .  .  and  if  no  Person  have  a  Majority,  then  from  the  five  highest 
on  the  List  the  said  House  shall  in  like  Manner  chuse  the  President. 
But  in  chusing  the  President,  the  Votes  shall  be  taken  by  States, 
the  Representation  from  each  State  having  one  Vote;  ...  In 
every  Case,  after  the  Choice  of  the  President,  the  Person  having 
the  greatest  Number  of  Votes  of  the  Electors  shall  be  the  Vice 
President.     .  .  . 

I,  21,  (28,  64),  68,  (77),  80,  (89,  91,  174),  175,  (181,  226),  230^ 
(236),  244,  (247,  292).  II,  (22),  29,  (so),  57,  (60),  63,  69,  (71),  73, 
(85),  95,  (97),  98,  99i  105,  (107),  108,  113,  (116),  118,  132,  134, 
(13s),  14s,  171,  18s,  (397),  401,  (406,  493),  497,  499,  (503,  507),  5", 
(517),  S2I,  (530,  532),  S3S,  572,  597,  (621),  626,  658.  Ill,  132,  150^ 
(158),  166,  216,  329,  331,  (354),  364,  382,  385,  394,  399,  400,  401, 
402,  405,  422,  458,  459,  460,  461,  462,  464, 

[Clause  5].  No  Person  except  a  natural  bom  Gti- 
zen,  or  a  Citizen  of  the  United  States,  at  the  time  of  the  Adoption 
of  this  Constitution,  shall  be  eligible  to  the  office  of  President; 
neither  shall  any  Person  be  eligible  to  that  Office  who  shall  not 
have  attained  to  the  Age  of  thirty  five  Years,  and  been  fourteen 
Years  a  Resident  within  the  United  States. 

II,  116,  (121,  134),  (337),  344,  367,  (494),  498,  (53a),  536,  S74» 
598,  659. 


ARTICLE  II,  SECTION  2,  CLAUSE  2        643 

[Qause  6].  In  Case  of  the  Removal  of  the  President 
ftom  Office,  .  .  .  the  Same  shall  devolve  on  the  Vice  President, 
and  the  Congress  may  by  Law  provide  for  the  Case  of  Removal, 
Death,  Resignation  or  Inability,  both  of  the  President  and  Vice 
President,  declaring  what  Officer  shall  then  act  ... 

I,   (292).    II,  146,  172,  186,  402,  427,  (495),  499,  (S32),|S3S^il 

573,  S7S*  598,  626,  659.  ^      ^ 

[Gause  7].  The  President  shall  .  .  .  receive  for 
his  Services,  a  Compensation,  which  shall  neither  be  encreased  nor 
diminished  during  the  Period  for  which  he  shall  have  been  elected, 
and  he  shall  not  receive  within  that  Period  any  other  Emolument 
from  the  United  States,  or  any  of  them. 

I,  21,  (63,  77),  81,  (89,  91),  230,  (236),  244,  (247).  II,  61,  (69), 
116,  (121),  132,  (134),  146,  i72>  185,  (335),  341,  575,  599,  621,  626, 

659. 

[Clause  8].    Before  he  enter  on  the  Execution  of  his 

Office,  he  shall  take  the  following  Oath  or  Affirmation:    .  .  . 

II,  172,  185,  (422),  427,  (432),  575,  599,  621,  659. 

Section  2.  [Qause  i].  The  President  shall  be  Commander  in 
Chief  of  the  Army  and  Navy  of  the  United  States,  and  of  the 
Militia  of  the  several  States,  when  called  into  the  actual  Service  of 
United  States;  he  may  require  the  Opinion,  in  writing,  of  the  prin- 
cipal Officer  in  each  of  the  executive  Departments,  upon  any  Sub- 
ject relating  to  the  Duties  of  their  respective  Offices,  and  he  shall 
have  Power  to  grant  Reprieves  and  Pardons  for  Offences  against 
the  United  States,  except  in  Cases  of  Impeachment. 

I,  (66,  70,  74>  292).    II,   I3S»  I4S>  146,  i57,  158,  171,  185,  329, 

(33S),  342,  367,  (4"),  419,  (422),  426,  (495),  499,  54^  (S43),  575f 
599,  621,  626,  659.    Ill,  III,  (158),  218,  302. 

[Qause  2].  He  shall  have  Power,  by  and  with  the 
Advice  and  Consent  of  the  Senate,  to  make  Treaties,  provided  two 
thirds  of  the  Senators  present  concur;  and  he  shall  nominate,  and 
by  and  with  the  Advice  and  Consent  of  the  Senate,  shall  appoint 
Ambassadors,  other  public  Ministers  and  Consuls,  Judges  of  the 
supreme  Court,  and  all  other  Officers  of  the  United  States,  whose 
Appointments  are  not  herein  otherwise  provided  for,  and  which 
shall  be  established  by  Law:  but  the  Congress  may  by  Law  vest 
the  Appointment  of  such  inferior  Officers,  as  they  think  proper, 
in  the  President  alone,  in  the  Courts  of  Law,  or  in  the  Heads  of 
Departments. 

I»  (63),  67,  (70,  116,)  119,  (126,  127),  128,  (224,  226),  230,  232, 
(236,  238),  244,  (247,  292).     II,  23,  (33,  37),  41,  (71),  80,  116,  fl2l). 


\ 
I 


644  INDEX   BY  CLAUSES   OF   CONSTITUTION 

13^1  (i34)>  14s,  i46>  ISS,  169,  171,  (172),  183,  185,  297,  (382),  389, 
39*,  (39S»  398),  40s,  (407,  4ii)>  419,  420,  (49S)>  498,  (532),  538, 
540,  (544),  547,  574,  599,  (621),  627,  628,  659.  Ill,  133,  (158, 
162),  166,  218,  (249,  251),  302,  306,  (342),  347,  356,  (357,  358),  370, 

371,  373,  375,  421,  424,  427. 

[Clause  3].    The  President  shall  have  Power  to  fill  up 

all  Vacancies  that  may  happen  during  the  Recess  of  the  Senate,  by 

granting  Commissions  which  shall  expire  at  the  End  of  their  next 

Session. 

n,   (533),  540,  574,  600,  660.    Ill,  421. 

Section  3.  He  shall  from  time  to  time  give  to  the  Congress 
Information  of  the  State  of  the  Union,  and  recommend  to  their 
consideration  such  Measures  as  he  shall  judge  necessary  and  expe- 
dient; he  may,  on  extraordinary  Occasions,  convene  both  Houses, 
or  either  of  them,  and  in  Case  of  Disagreement  between  them,  with 
respect  to  the  Time  of  Adjournment,  he  may  adjourn  them  to  such 
Time  as  he  shall  think  proper;  he  shall  receive  Ambassadors  and 
other  public  Ministers;  he  shall  take  Care  that  the  Laws  be 
faithfully  executed,  and  shall  Commission  all  the  Officers  of  the 
United  States. 

I,  21,  (63,  66),  67,  (70,  226),  230,  (236),  244,  (247,  292).  II, 
23,  (32),  116,  (121),  132,  (134),  14s,  146,  158,  171,  185,  (398),  404, 
(411),  419,  420,  (547),  553,  574,  600,  660. 

Section  4.  The  President,  Vice  President  and  all  civil  Officers 
of  the  United  States,  shall  be  removed  from  Office  on  Impeach- 
ment for,  and  conviction  of.  Treason,  Bribery,  or  other  high  Crimes 
and  Misdemeanors. 

I,  (78),  85,  90,  (91,  92,  226),  230,  (236),  244,  (247,  292).  II,  (61), 
64,  116,  (121),  132,  (134),  145,  172,  186,  (337,  344,  367,  422),  427, 
(495),  499,  (545),  550,  575,  600,  (612),  660.    Ill,  219,  406. 

Article.  III. 

Section  i.  The  judicial  Power  of  the  United  States,  shall  be 
vested  in  one  supreme  Court,  and  in  such  inferior  Courts  as  the 
Congress  may  from  time  to  time  ordain  and  establish.  Hie  Judges, 
both  of  the  supreme  and  inferior  Courts,  shall  hold  their  Offices 
during  good  Behaviour,*and  shall,  at  stated  Times,  receive  for  their 
Services,  a  Compensation,  which  shall  not  be  diminished  during 
their  Continuance  in  Office. 

I,  21,  (28),  95,  (104),  116,  (118,  119),  124,  (126,  127,  226),  230, 


ARTICLE    III,    SECTION   3  64S 

(236),  238,  244,  (247,  292).    II,  (37),  41,  44,  132,  146,  172,  186,  335, 
(341),  (422),  428,  (432),  575,  600,  621,  (638),  660.    Ill,  (169),  220, 

332,  391- 

Section  2.     [Qause  i].    The  judicial  Power  shall  extend  to  all 

Cases,  in   Law  and   Equity,  arising  under  this   Constitution,  the 

Laws  of  the  United  States,  and  Treaties  made,  or  which  shall  be 

made,  under  their  Authority;  —  to  all  Cases  affecting  Ambassadors, 

other  public  Ministers   and  Consuls;  —  to  all  Cases  of  admiralty 

and  maritime  Jurisdiction;  —  to  Controversies  to  which  the  United 

States  shall  be  a  Party;  —  to  Controversies  between  two  or  more 

States; — between  a  State  and  Qtizens  of  another  State;  —  between 

Citizens  of  different  States,  —  between  Citizens  of  the  same  State 

claiming  Lands  under  Grants  of  different  States,  and   between  a 

State,  or  the  Citizens    thereof,   and   foreign   States,   Citizens  or 

Subjects. 

I,  22,  (28),  211,  (220),  223,  231,  (232,   237),   238,   244,  (247, 

292).    II,  (39),  46,  132,  (136),  146,  157,  160,  170,  172,  183,  186, 

(33S)j  34^1  367,  (396),  400>  (406.  4^^7  4^3),  4^8,  430,  (432),  576,  600, 
621,  660.    Ill,  (156,  169),  220,  (240),  407. 

[Clause  2].  In  all  Cases  affecting  Ambassadors,  other 
public  Ministers  and  Consuls,  and  those  in  which  a  State  shall  be 
Party,  the  supreme  Court  shall  have  original  Jurisdiction.  In  all 
the  other  Cases  .  .  .  appellate  Jurisdiction,  both  as  to  Law  and 
Fact,  .  .  . 

I,  22,  (28),  244,  (247,  292).  II,  147,  157,  173,  186,  (424),  431, 
432,  (434)>  437,  576,  601,  661.     Ill,  (156),  220,  (273,  287,  299). 

[Clause  3].  The  Trial  of  all  Crimes,  .  .  .  shall  be 
by  Jury;  .  .  . 

II,  144,  173,  187,  (433,  434),  438,  (444),  576,  587,  601,  628, 
635,  661,  III,  loi,  150,  163,  (167),  221,  (250,  298),  309,  332,  (349), 
352. 

Section  3.  Treason  against  the  United  States,  shall  consist 
only  in  levying  War  against  them,  or  in  adhering  to  their  Enemies, 
^ving  them  Aid  and  Comfort.  No  Person  shall  be  convicted  of 
Treason  unless  on  the  Testimony  of  two  Witnesses  to  the  same 
overt  Act,  or  on  Confession  in  open  Court. 

The  Congress  shall  have  Power  to  declare  the  Punishment  of 
Treason,  but  no  Attainder  of  Treason  shall  work  Corruption  of 
Blood,  or  Forfeiture  except  during  the  Life  of  the  Person  attainted. 

II,  136,  144,  168,  182,  (337),  345,  351,  571,  601,  626,  661.  Ill, 
1581  (163),  223. 


646  INDEX   BY   CLAUSES   OF   CONSTITUTION 

Article.  IV. 

Section  i .  Full  Faith  and  Credit  shall  be  given  in  each  State  to 
the  public  Acts,  Records,  and  judicial  Proceedings  of  every  other 
State.  And  the  Congress  may  by  general  Laws  prescribe  the 
Manner  in  which  such  Acts,  Records  and  Proceedings  shall  be 
proved,  and  the  Effect  thereof. 

I,  24s,  (247).  II,  13s,  174,  188,  (44S),  447,  (456),  483,  (48Sf 
486),  488,  577,  601,  661.    Ill,  112. 

Section  2.  [Qause  i].  The  Citizens  of  each  State  shall  be 
entitled  to  all  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  Citizens  in  the  several 
States. 

II,  13s,  173,  187,  (437),  443,  (456),  577, 601, 662.    Ill,  112,  445. 

[Clause  2].  A  Person  charged  in  any  State  with 
Treason,  Felony,  or  other  Crime,  who  shall  flee  from  Justice,  and 
be  found  in  another  State,  shall  on  Demand  of  the  executive 
Authority  of  the  State  from  which  he  fled,  be  delivered  up,  to  be 
removed  to  the  State  having  Jurisdiction  of  the  Crime. 

II,  135,  174,  187,  (437),  443,  (456),  577, 601, 621, 662.  Ill,  112. 
[Clause  3].  No  Person  held  to  Service  or  Labour  in 
one  State,  under  the  Laws  thereof,  escaping  into  another,  shall,  in 
Consequence  of  any  Law  or  Regulation  therein,  be  discharged  from 
such  Service  or  Labour,  but  shall  be  delivered  up  on  Qaim  of  the 
Party  to  whom  such  Service  or  Labour  may  be  due. 

II,   (446),  453,  577,  601,  621,  628,  662.    Ill,  84,  325. 

Section  3.  [Clause  i].  New  States  may  be  admitted  by  the 
Congress  into  this  Union;  but  no  new  State  shall  be  formed  or 
erected  within  the  Jurisdiction  of  any  other  State;  nor  any  State 
be  formed  by  the  Junction  of  two  or  more  States,  or  Parts  of 
States,  without  the  Consent  of  the  Legislatures  of  the  States  con- 
cerned as  well  as  of  the  Congress. 

I,  22,  (28),  117,  (121,  126,  226),  231,  (237),  245.  II,  39,  (46), 
133,  (136),  147,  (iJi,  IS9)»  I73»  188,  (446),  454,  (457),  461,  578, 
602  (628),  662.    Ill,  223,  399,  404. 

[Qause  2].  The  Congress  shall  have  Power  to  dis- 
pose of  and  make  all  needful  Rules  and  Regulations  respecting  the 
Territory  or  other  Property  belonging  to  the  United  States;  and 
nothing  in  this  Constitution  shall  be  so  construed  as  to  prejudice 
any  Claims  of  the  United  States,  or  of  any  particular  State. 

II,  (321),  324,  (458),  461,  466,  470,  578,  602,  662.     Ill,  401,  404. 
Section  4.     The    United    States    shall    guarantee    to    every 


ARTICLE   VI,    CLAUSE   2  647 

State  in  this  Union  a  Republican  Form  of  Government,  and  shall 
protect  each  of  them  against  Invasion;  and  on  Application  of  the 
Legislature,  or  of  the  Executive  (when  the  Legislature  cannot  be 
convened)  against  domestic  Violence. 

I,  22,  (28,  117),  121,  (126,  193),  202,  206,  (227),  231,  (237). 
n  (39),  47.  133,  (137),  144,  148,  (isOi  IS9,  168,  174,  182,  188, 
(313),  3i6>  (320,  459),  466,  (470),  578, 602,  621,  (628),  662.    Ill,  548. 

Article.  V. 

The  Congress,  whenever  two  thirds  of  both  Houses  shall  deem  it 
necessary,  shall  propose  Amendments  to  this  Constitution,  or,  on 
the  Application  of  the  Legislatures  of  two  thirds  of  the  several 
States,  ,shall  call  a  Convention  for  proposing  Amendments,  which, 
in  either  Case,  shall  be  valid  to  all  Intents  and  Purposes,  as  Part 
of  this  Constitution,  when  ratified  by  the  Legislatures  of  three 
fourths  of  the  several  States,  or  by  Conventions  in  three  fourths 
thereof,  .  .  .  Provided  that  no  Amendment  which  may  be  made 
prior  to  the  Year  One  thousand  eight  hundred  and  eight  shall  in 
any  Manner  a£Fect  the  first  and  fourth  Clauses  in  the  Ninth  Section 
of  the  first  Article;  and  that  no  State,' without  its  Consent,  shall 
be  deprived  of  it's  equal  Suffrage  in  the  Senate. 

I,  22,  (28,  117),  121,  (126,  194),  202,  (206,  227),  231,  (237). 
II,  84,  (87),  133,  (136),  148,  (152),  IS9,  174,  188,  (461),  467,  isss), 
SS7i  578,  602,  629,  (634),  662.    Ill,  (173),  367,  400,  S7S. 

Article.  VL 

[Qause  i.]  All  Debts  contracted  and  Engagements  entered  into, 
before  the  adoption  of  this  Constitution,  shall  be  as  valid  against  the 
United  States  under  this  Constitution,  as  under  the  Confederation. 

I,  22,  117,  (121,  126,  227),  231,  (237).  II,  (39),  46,  (322), 
326>  (352)1  3SSi  (368),  377,  (394,  408),  412,  S7i,  603,  663.  Ill,  171, 
239,  259,  27s,  299,  327,  360,  361,  366. 

[Clause  2.]  This  Constitution,  and  the  Laws  of  the  United 
States  which  shall  be  made  in  Pursuance  thereof;  and  all  Treaties 
made,  or  which  shall  be  made,  under  the  Authority  of  the  United 
States,  shall  be  the  supreme  Law  of  the  Land;  and  the  Judges  in 
every  State  shall  be  bound  thereby,  any  Thing  in  the  Constitution 
or  Laws  of  any  State  to  the  Contrary  notwithstanding. 

I,  21,  (28),  47,  (S4,  61,  162),  164,  (169,  171,  173,  225),  229, 
(236),  24s,  (247,  293).  II,  (21),  22,  27,  132,  (136),  144,  169,  183, 
(381),  389,  390,  (394,  409),  417,  572,  603,  663.  Ill,  133,  (241), 
273,286,  516,523,527,  538. 


648  INDEX  BY   CLAUSES   OF   CONSTITUTION 

[Qause  3.]  The  Senators  and  Representatives  before  men- 
tioned, and  the  Members  of  the  several  State  Legislatures,  and  all 
executive  and  judicial  Officers,  both  of  the  United  States  and  of 
the  several  States,  shall  be  bound  by  Oath  or  Affirmation,  to  sup- 
port this  Constitution;  but  no  religious  Test  shall  ever  be  required 
as  a  Qualification  to  any  Office  or  public  Trust  under  the  United 
States. 

I,  22,  (28,  117),  122,  (126,  194),  203,  (207,  227,  231,  (237). 
II,  (84),  87,  133,  148,  (isO,  159,  174,  188,  (33s),  342,  (461), 
468,  579,  603,  663.    Ill,  227,  293,  310. 

Article.  VII. 

The  Ratification  of  the  Conventions  of  nine  States,  shall  be 
sufficient  for  the  Establishment  of  this  Constitution  between  the 
States  so  ratifying  the  Same. 

I,  22,  (28,  118),  122,  (126^  209),  214,  (220,  227),  232,  (237,  335). 
II,  (84),  88,  (96),  133,  (136),  148,  149,  (151),  160,  174,  189,  211, 
468,  (471),  475,  482,  iSS^),  5S9»  S79i  603,  663.  Ill,  14,  (66),  137, 
(159),  227  (257,  273,  288),  299,  (351). 


/ 


GENERAL  INDEX 


i 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Everything  embodied  in  the  final  draft  of  the  Constitu- 
tion is  to  be  traced  through  the  Index  by  Clauses  of  the 
Constitution. 

A  brief  summary  of  each  item  in  Appendix  A  is  given 
under  the  author's  name ;  the  more  detailed  references  to  the 
contents  are  attached  to  their  appropriate  subjects  by  foot- 
notes in  volumes  I  and  II. 

» 

References  to  items  which  are  merely  copies  or  repetitions 
of  other  items  have  been  enclosed  in  parentheses. 


Achaean  League,  I,  143,  317,  319,  (326, 

^^   330),  343,  (348,  350). 
Adams,  John,  I,  419;  letter  of  Sherman 
to.  III,  358;  letter  of  Jefferson  to, 

III,  76,  4*1. 

Adams,  John  Quincir,  editor  of  Journal 
of  Convention,  I,  xii;  extracts  from 
Memoirs  of:  on  editing  Journal,  III, 
426,  430,  concerning  punctuation  of 
clause  on  power  of  taxation,  ^56^ 
and  quoting  King  on  Pinckney  Plan, 
481;  letters  of  Madison  to,  III, 
423,  426,  434,  435,  44S;  letter  of 
Charles  Pinckney  to.  Ill,  427. 

Address  to  the  people  to  accompany  Con- 
stitution,  II,  (557),  56^,  579,  622. 

Adjournment  (see  Convention). 

Admiral  of  navy,  II,  158. 

Admiralty  courts  proposed,  II,  136,  432. 

Admiralty,  department  of,  referred  to, 

II,  135.  136,  158. 

Admission  of  States,  (see  Index  by 
clauses  and  new  states),  restric- 
tions on,  II,  147, 159,  173.  188. 

Agriculture,  promotion  of,  II,  322,  (325), 

,  336,  (343).     , 
Alfred  the  Great,  I,  323,  (328,  330). 

Amphictyonic  League,  I,  14^,  285,  (296, 
307),  317.  319,  3«>,  (326,  330),  343, 
(348,  350),  441.  448,  454,  (456,  458), 
478. 

Annapolis  Convention,  III,  545,  559. 

Anne,  (2ueen  of  England,  I,  546. 

Appendix  A,  contentt  of,  described,  I, 
xxiv;  list  of,  III,  3* 


6si 


Appointment  to  offices,  only  such  as  are 
established  by  constitution  or  by 
law,  II,  (545),  550:  by  state  execu- 
tives, II,  406,  (107),  418,  (420). 

Aragon,  justiciary  of,  II,  299. 

Aristocracy,  I,  483,  (494),  544,  545;  II, 
202,  203,  (207),  222,  224,  250,  278, 
284,  286,  512,  S13,  51S,  522,  524, 
(6«),  640. 

Aristotle,  I,  308. 

Arrangement  (see  Committee  of  style). 

Articles  of  Confederation,  (see  also  Con- 
gress of  Confederation,  Convention, 
powers  of.  Defects  of  Confedera- 
tion); formation  and  adoption  of,  I, 
18,  26,  123,  166,  (170),  176,  (181), 

aSi,  (259,  274),  343.  (348),  467,  55*. 
(555)»  III,  540;  amendments  to,  I, 
197,  201,  (20s),  (328),  332,  587,  590, 
(594);  provisions  from,  to  be  em- 
bodied in  Constitution,  (see  also 
Powers  of  Congress),  II,  ^31,  447;  to 
be  amended  (see  Index  by  Clauses, 
Article  VII,  New  Jersey  Plan);  spe- 
cific provisions  of,  cited,  I,  4,  6,  187, 
188,  189,  250,  (258,  273,  274),  468; 
II,  285. 
Arts  and  sciences  to  be  promoted,  II,  322, 

(3*5)- 
Assumption  of  state  debts  (see  Index  by 

Qauses,  Article  VI). 
Athens,  I,  74,  135,  307,  448,  (456,  458), 

II,  235. 
Auldjo,  letter  of  Hamilton  to.  III,  64. 
AuUc  Council,  I,  553,  (555). 


6S2 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Austin,  J,  T,.  letter  of  Madison  to,  III, 
518. 

Austria,  I,  J08,  448,  U56,  fS8). 

Ayes  and  Noes,  record  of,  kept  by  secre- 
tary of  Convention,  described  and 


criticized,  I,  ziii;  photo^aph  of  first 

pag 

II,  passim. 


>age  of,  I,  33;  copy 


ograpn 
of,  I, 


passinif 


Baldwin,  Abraham,  delegate  from 
Georgia,  attendance  of,  at  Conven- 
tion, III,  587;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  97,  238;  elected  on  commit- 
tees, I,  509,  (Si6,  s^o),  II,  (12), 
3",  (3*8),  366,  (37S),  473,  (481); 
thinks  senate  ought  to  represent 
property,  I,  469,  (47O;  votes  for 
e^ual  vote  in  senate,  I,  510;  favors 
disqualification  of  foreigners,  II,  272; 
considers  slavery  a  local  (question, 
II,  372;  moves  amendment  in  word- 
ing of  clause  permitting  taxation  of 
slaves  imported,  II,  416;  remarks  on 
land  claims  of  states,  II,  465;  favors 
ineligibility  of  members  of  congress, 

II,  ^91,  613;  favors  new  plan  of 
electing  president,  II,  501;  signs 
ConstituUon,  II,  665;  relates  to 
Stiles  the  work  of  Convention,  III, 
168;  in  House  of  Representatives: 
explains  objections  to  combination 
of  president  and  senate.  III,  358, 
explains  difficulty  with  regard  to 
importation  and  representation  of 
slaves,  360,  176,  explains  represen- 
tation according  to  numbers,  364, 
thinks  Constitution  is  in  some  cases 
indefinite,  369,  thinks  Congress  has 
no  power  to  establish  a  national 
bank,  375,  and  explains  power  of 
congress  over  bankruptcy,  180;  in 
Senate  explains  election  of  presi- 
dent, III,  382. 

Baltimore,  II,  417. 

Bancroft,  Geom,  letter  of  O.  £.  Wood, 

to.  III,  396. 
Bank,   establishment   of,   II,   616,   III, 

375. 
Bassett,   Richard,   delegate   from   Dela- 
ware, attendance  of,  at  Convention, 

III,  587;  character  sketch  of.  III, 
93;  votes  against  general  negative 
on  state  laws,  I,  m;  signs  Consd- 
tution,  II,  664. 

Bedford,  Gunning,  delegate  from  Dela- 
ware, attendance  of,  at  Convention, 
III,  587;  character  sketch  of,  III, 
92;  elected  on  committees,  I,  509, 
(516,  C2o),  II,  (12);  favors  three 
years  ior  executive  and  ineligibility, 
1, 68,  (73, 74);  favors  executive  being 
removable  upon  request  of  state 
legislatures,  I,  78,  (85);  favors 
amending  confederation,  1, 490,  (500, 


505);  explatns  his  statement  with 
regard  to  foreign  alliances,  I,  531; 
moves  that  general  powers  of  legis- 
lation be  vested  in  congress,  II,  26; 
favors  increase  of  representation  to 
Rhode  Island  and  Delaware,  II,  624; 
opposes  any  check  on  legislature,  I, 
I,  100,  (106,  109);  opposes  general 
negative  on  state  laws,  I,  167,  168, 
(170,  173);  opposes  appointment  of 
judges  by  executive,  it,  43;  opposes 

freface  to  clause  controllmg  nuiitia, 
I,  617;  threat  of  foreign  alliances 
by,  referred  to,  I,  493,  (502),  514, 
(ji9),  528,  530,  (535,  537);  sign* 
Constitution,  II,  664. 

Belffian  Confederacy  (see  Netherlands). 

Belknap  writes  to  Hazard  of  Gerry's  and 
King's  explanations  in  the  Massa- 
chusetts convention.  III,  262. 

Benton,  eulogy  of  Rufus  King  by.  III, 
466. 

BUI  of  rights,  II,  (582),  588,  637,  III, 
290. 

Bills  of  credit  (see  Paper  money  and 
Powers  of  Congress). 

Bills  of  exchange,  protest  of  foreign,  re- 
ferred to  committee,  II,  445,  (447). 

Blackstone,  I,  472. 

Blair,  John,  delegate  from  Virginia,  at- 
tendance of,  at  Convention,  III,  578; 
character  sketch  of,  III,  95;  votes 
for  general  negative  on  state  laws, 
I,  i&;  votes  for  election  of  president 
by  legislature,  II,  121 ;  votes  against 
single  executive,  I,  97;  votes  against 
restricting  mone^  bills  to  house,  II, 
280;  votes  against  permitting  ex- 
port tax  by  two  thirds  vote,  II,  363; 
signs  Constitution,  II,  664. 

Blount,  William,  delegate  from  North 
Carolina,  attendance  of,  at  Conven- 
tion, III,  587;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  95;  signs  Constitution,  II,  646, 
665;  writes  to  Governor  Caswell  on 
his  attendance  at  Convention,  III, 
29,  57,  71. 

Bolingbroke,  I,  375. 

Bond,  Phineas,  writes  to  Lord  Car- 
marthen, on  work  of  Convention, 

HI,  sa. 
Boston,  I,  587,  II,  216. 
Bowdoin,  governor  of  Massachusetts,  II, 

57. 
Brearley,    David,    delegate    from    New 

Jersey,  attendance  of,  at  Conven- 
tion, III,  587;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  00;  elected  on  committees,  I, 
558,  (562),  II,  473,  (481);  moves  to 
urge  attendance  of  New  Hampshire, 
I,  481,  (494);  opposes  proportional 
represenution,  1,  (175),  176,  (181, 
184,  191);  opposes  joint  ballot  in 
election  of  president,  II,  402;  sec- 


GENERAL  INDEX 


6S3 


Brcarley,  David  (Continiud) 

onds  motion  that  in  election  of  presi- 
dent each  state  have  one  vote,  II. 
403;  presents  report  from  grand 
committee  on  unfinished  parts  of 
Constitution,  II,  483,  (484,  493), 
49^»  (505),  508;  seconds  motion  to 
strike  out  article  on  amendments, 
II,  630;  signs  Constitution,  II,  6di; 
writes  to  Dayton  urging  his  attena- 
ance.  III,  37:  writes  to  Paterson 
on  progress  of  Convention,  111,^73. 

Brearley's  notes  of  proceedings  in  Con- 
vention, I,  xii,  (16),  443,  573,  II, 
(181),  610,  621,  63J,  III,  431. 

British  (see  Great  Britam). 

Broom,  Jacob,  delegate  from  Delaware, 
attendance  of,  at  Convention,  III, 
C87;  character  sketch  of.  III,  93; 
favors  nine  years  for  senate,  I,  421; 
favors  equal  representation  in  senate, 

I,  570;  opposes  adjournment  of 
Convention  sine  die.  11,  19;  favors 
electing  executive  by  electors  ap- 
pointed by  state  legislatures,  II,  32; 
favors  good  behavior  as  term  of  exec- 
utive, or  short  term  if  reeligible,  II, 
33;  favors  postponing  questions  on 
election  of  |>resident,  II,  63,  103: 
favors  excepting  officers  in  army  and 
navy  from  ineligibility  to  congress. 

II,  290;  .favors  equal  payments,  and 
trusting  congress  to  pay  themselves, 

II,  291,  293;  favors  amending  clause 
on  treason,  II.  348;  favors  negative 
on  state  laws  by  two  thirds  vote,  II, 
390;  moves  to  refer  election  of  presi- 
dent to  grand  committee,  II,  404; 
opposes  power  of  president  to  corre- 
spond with  state  executives,  II,  419; 
signs  Constitution,  II,  664. 

Butler,  Pierce,  delegate  from  South 
Carolina,  attendance  at  Convention 
of,   III,  587;   character  sketch  of, 

III,  96;  elected  on  committees,  II, 
410,  ^  (418);  473,  (481):  moves 
additional  rules  of  order,  I,  9,  (13); 
moves  to  postpone  first  resolution,  I, 
30,  (33,  41);  favors  separation  of 
powers,    I,   ^4;     thinks    too   much 

rwer  is  being  taken  from  states, 
,53;  thinks  states  should  lay  their 
own  taxes,  I,  205,  (207);  favors  con- 
sent of  legislatures  to  division  of 
states,  II,  455;  explains  '* perpetual" 
in  Articles  of  Confederation,  I,  129; 
opposes  election  of  representatives 
by  people,  I,  (50),  58;  favors  con- 
sidering wealth  in  apportionment  of 
representation,  I,  144,  562;  favors 
representation  proportional  to  quotas 
of  contribution,  I,  193,  (196,  200), 
*  204;  favors  reference  of  representa- 
tion to  special  committee,  I,  541; 


favors  increase  of  representation  of 
South  Carolina,  I,  568;  favors  direct 
taxation    according    to    population, 

I,  594;  favors  direct  taxation  accord- 
ing to  representation  until  census 
be  taken,  II,  358;  asks  intended 
number  of  senate,  I,  (51),  58,  59; 
asks  ratio  of  representation  before 
determining  election  of  senate,  I, 
151,  407;  favors  senate  representing 
property,  I,  529,  (537);  favors  long 
residence  qualification  for  senators, 

II,  236;  opposes  restrictions  on  right 
of  su£Frage,  II,  202;  favors  three 
years  previous  inhabitancy  for 
representatives,  II,  218;  opposes 
admitting  foreigners  to  congress,  II, 
269;  favors  ineligibility  of  repre- 
sentatives to  office,  I,  376,  (379,  j86, 
389),  391.  394,  n,  290;  favors  eligi- 
bility of  senators  to  state  offices,  I, 
428,  (434);  moves  to  strike  out  pay- 
ment of  senate,  I,  (211),  219,  (222); 
favors  question  jointly  on  "aaequate 
compensation"  and  payment  out  of 
national  treasury,  I,  374;  favors 
payment  of  congress  by  states,  II, 
290;  favon  counting  all  blacks  in 
representation,  I,  580,  C92;  wishes 
security  for  slavery,  I,  005,  II,  443, 
453;  opposes  inferior  courts,  I,  125, 
11,  45;  opposes  general  negative  of 
state  laws,  I,  108,  (173);  opposes 
limitation  of  originating  money  bills, 
h  233»  (238),  n,  224;  asks  explana- 
tion of  term  '*  incompetent,"  II,  17; 
favors  fixing  seat  of  government  by 
Constitution,  II,  128;  opposes  power 
of  congress  to  emit  bills  of  credit, 
II,  309, 3 10;  favors  control  of  militia, 
II,  331;  opposes  tax  on  exports,  II, 
360,  374;  votes  against  two-thirds 
vote  for  navigation  act,  II,  451; 
favors  discriminating  between  specu- 
lators and  original  holders  of  securi- 
ties, II,  392,  400,  413;  favors  assent 
of  congress  to  inspection  laws,  II, 
589;  favors  ratification  of  Constitu- 
tion by  conventions  and  by  nine 
states,  I,  128,  II,  j6g;  favors  single 
executive,  I,  88,  (90,  92);  opposes 
short  term  for  executive,  II,  59; 
favors  election  by  electors  chosen  by 
state  legislatures,  II,  112;  favors 
referring  questions  of  executive  to 
committee  of  detail,  II,  11^:  favors 
new  plan  of  electing  president,  II, 
501;  opposes  absolute  veto,  I,  94, 
100,^  (103,  106,  107,  109);^  favors 
vesting  power  to  make  war  in  presi- 
dent, II,  318;  moves  to  give  legis- 
lature power  of  peace,  II,  319, 
540;  signs  Constitution,  II,  665; 
writes  to  Wredon  Butler:  on  pro- 


6S4 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Butler,  Pierce  (Contintud) 

eress  of  Convention,  III,  67,  on 
aifficulties  in  forming  Constitution 
102,  and  comparing  new  constitu- 
tion with  that  of  Great  Britain, 
301;  in  South  Carolina  legislature 
explains  senate  having  sole  power 
of  impeachment.  III,  250;  in  Sen- 
ate: declares  that  vice  president 
has  no  vote  in  amendment  of  Con- 
stitution, III,  400,  and  explains 
election  of  president,  403. 

Butler,  Weedon,  leturs  of  Pierce  Butler 
to.  III,  67,  102,  301. 

Cabell,  J.  C,  letters  of  Madison  to.  III, 

477,  478. 

Cabinet  (see  Council  of  Stau,  Council 
for  President,  Privy  council,  titles 
of  departments). 

Canals  (see  Powers  of  Congress). 

Capital  (see  Seat  of  government). 

Carmarthen,  Lord,  letter  of  Bond  to, 
III,  52. 

Carrington,  Edward,  wntes  to  Jefferson 
on  delegates  to  Convention,  their 
commissions,  and  attitude  of  coun- 
try, III,  37;  writes  to  Madison, 
on  opposition  in  congress  to  work 
of  Convention,  III,  98;  letter  of 
Hamilton  to,  III,  366. 

Carroll,  Charles,  appointed  delegate  from 
Maryland,  III,  558. 

Carroll,  Daniel,  delegate  from  Manrland, 
attendance  at  Convendon  of.  III, 
587;  character  sketch  of,  III,  91; 
elected  on  committees,  I,  558,  (562), 
11.  410,  (418),  473,  (481);  explains 
Maryland's  vote  against  three-fifths 
rule,  I,  j88;  wishes  delay  in  consider- 
ing voting  per  capita  in  senate,  II, 
95^  favors  choice  of  electors  of  exec- 
utive by  lot,  II,  105;  opposes  direct 
taxation  according  to  representation 
before  census  is  taken,  II,  106,  350; 
favors  election  of  president  by  peo- 
ple, II,  402,  404;  opposes  disquali- 
fication of  persons  having  unsettled 
accounts  with  U.  S.,  II,  125;  joins 
in  conference  of  Maryland  delegates, 
II,  i^,  210;  votes  against  one  year 
previous  inhabitancy  for  represen- 
tatives, II,  226;  favors  five  years 
citizenship  for  representatives,  II, 
272;  favors  two  thirds  of  each  house 
to  expel  a  member,  II,  254;  favors 
right  of  any  senator  to  enter  his 
dissent,  II,  2^5;  opposes  a  law  to 
change  seat  of  government,  II,  262; 
descnbes  troubles  in  Marvland  on 
account  of  restriction  of  money 
bills,  II,  280;  opposes  payment  of 
congress  bv  states,  II,  292;  favors 
thrM-fourths  vote  to  over-rule  veto, 


II,  300;  opposes  majority  as  a  quo- 
rum in  connection  with  powers  of 
congress,  II,  305;  favors  prohibit- 
ing export  taxes,  II,  308;  points 
out  difficulty  in  adjustment  of  state 
accounts  with  U.  S.,  II,  357;  favors 
prohibition  of  ex  post  facto  laws, 
II,  376;  favors  prohibition  of  pref- 
erences in  commerce,  II,  417,  481; 
opposes  referring  appointments  to 
state  executives,  II,  420;  opposes 
consent  of  state  to  its  being  divided, 
II,  461;  moves  that  land  claims  be 
not  affected,  II,  465;  favors  state 
duties  for  clearing  harbors,  II,  625, 
(633,  634);  favors  ratification  of 
Constitution  by  thirteen  states,  II, 
(468),  469,  475;  favors  address  to 
people,  II,  622;  favors  ratio  of  i  to 
jo,ooo,  II,  644;  sifns  Constitution, 

II,  664;  writes  to  Madison  concern- 
tnff  rumors  of  plots  in  Convention, 

III,  305. 

Carthaee,  I,  135,  307,  448,  (456). 

Caswell,  Richard,  Governor,  appointed 
delegate  from  North  Carolma,  III, 
(559),  5^7;  recjuests  from  naval 
officers  information  on  exports  for 
benefit  of  Convention,  III,  14; 
writes  to  North  Carolina  delegates 
on  subject  of  Convention,  III,  17, 
52,  63;  letters  of  North  Carolina 
delegates  to.  III,  29,  46,  57,  64,  68, 

^.    70,71,71,74,83. 

Chapman,  Reynolds,  letter  of  Madison 
to,  III,  494. 

Charlemagne,  I,  (285),  307. 

Charies  II,  II,  69. 

Chesterfield,  Lord,  I,  254. 

Cicero,  I,  ^08. 

Cincinnati,  Society  of,  II,  114,  119, 
111,23. 

Citizen  of  New  Haven  by  Roger  Sher- 
man, extract  from.  III,  354. 

Civil  law,  II,  431. 

Civil  power  to  be  superior  to  military,  II, 

^     334,  (341). 

Qark,  Abraham,  appointed  delegate  from 

New  Jersey.  Ill,  (557),  563;  creden- 
tials of,  read,  1, 115. 
Clymer,  George,  delegate  from  Penn- 
sylvania, attendance  at  Convention 
of.  III,  587;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  91;  elected  on  committees, 
II,  322,  (328),  366,  (375);  favors 
restraining  export  tax  to  regulations 
of  trade,  II,  363;  prefers  description 
to  term  *' slaves,"  II,  415;  opposes 
encouragement  of  west,  II,  442; 
opposes  two-thirds  vote  on  naviga- 
tion acts,  II,  450;  favors  ratifica- 
tion of  Constitution  by  majority  of 
people  and  sutes,  II,  (475),  477; 
objects  to  appointment  to  offices  by 


GENERAL   INDEX 


6SS 


Clymer,  George  (Continued) 

senate,  II,  524;  opposes  requiring 
approval  of  congress  to  new  consti- 
tution, II,  562;  signs  Constitution, 
11,664. 

Cobb,  T.  W.,  in  Senate  explains  the 
power  of  congress   to  incorporate, 

Coercion  (see  Force,  use  of). 

Cogswell,  William,  letter  of  Madison  to. 

Coles,   Edward,  letter  of  Madison  to, 

in,  S34. 

Collins,  John,  writes  to  St.  Qair  on  dele- 
gation from  Rhode  Island,  III,  76. 

Commerce,  (see  also  Index  by  Clauses, 
and  Defects  of  Confederation);  I, 
133,  142,  2^3,   (247),   II,  27s,  322, 

^     (3*5),  336,  (343),  583,  632,  63s,  666. 
Commerce  and  finance,  secretary  of,  II, 

^     336,  (343). 

Commercial  class  and  interests,  I,  135, 

152,  .154,  (157),  402,  (411),  11, 124. 

Commissions,  patents  and  writs  to  be  in 
name  of  United  States,  II,  172,  335, 
(342);   (see  also  Credentials). 

Committee  of  compromise  on  representa- 
tion, I,  509-520,  522,  524,  (526). 

Committee  of  detail,  appointment  of,  II. 
69,  (85),  95,  97,  U06);  furnished 
with  proceedings,  II,  107,  (115)1  1^7, 
(128);  documents  of,  I,  xxii,  II, 
129-175;  report  of,  II,  (17J,  176), 
177,  (190);  further  propositions  re- 
ferred to.  II,  98,  (106),  321,  (324), 

^     334,(340). 

Committee  of  style  and  arrangement, 
appointed,  II,  547r  (553,  554);  in- 
structed to  prepare  an  address  to 
people,  II,  (556),  564,  579;  report 
of,  II,  (582),  58c,  590;  further 
report  of,  II,  604,  (008). 

Committee  of  the  whole,  sessions  of,  I, 
29-333,  passim;  Randolph  Resolu- 
tions referred  to,  1, 16,  23;  Pinckney 
plan  referred  to,  I,  16,  23;  reports 
amended  Randolph  Resolutions,  I, 
(223),  228,  (235,  238);  New  Jersey 
plan  referred  to,  I,  (241),  242,  (246); 
reports  amended  Randolph  Reso- 
lutions in  preference  to  New  Jersey 
plan,  I,  312,  (313),  322;  discharged 
from  consideration  of  Pinckney  and 
New  Jersey  plans,  II,  98,  (106). 

Committee  on  commercial  restrictions, 
II,  (410),  418,  434,  (437). 

Committee  on  economy,  etc.,  appointed, 
II,  606. 

Committee  on  interstate  recognition  of 
acts,  II,  (445),  447,  483,  (484).  ^  . 

Committee  on  navigation  acts  and  im- 
portation of  slaves,  II,  (366),  374, 
(3^),  400. 

Committee  on  numbers  in  first  house  I, 


fi 


;38,  (540),  557,  558,  (559),  560,  563, 

[566).  • 
Committee  on  rules  and  standing  orders, 

appointed,  I,  2,  (4);  report  of,  I,  7, 

(10,  13,  14),  15,  (17,  23). 
Committee  on  state  debts  and  militia, 

II,  322,  (327),  352,  (355). 
Committee  on  unfinished  parts  of  Con- 
stitution, appointed,  11,  473,  (481); 

reporte  of,  II,  483,  (484,  493),  496, 

^     (505),  508. 

Common  law,  II,  431,  637. 

Compromises  (see.Index  by  Clauses,  Art.  I: 
Sect.  2,  Clause  3;  Sect.  3,  Clause  i; 
Sect.  7,  Clause  i;  Sect.  9,  Qause  l; 
Art.  II:   Sect,  i,  Qauses  1-4). 

Confederacies,  partial,  suggested,  I,  (123), 
179,  (183,  187),  307,  327,  445,  (455) 
465, 466, 604,  II,  4, 6, 7,  A53,  III,  131. 

Confederation  (see  Articles  of  Confedera- 
tion, Congress  of  Confederation, 
Defects  of  Confederation). 

Conference  of  delegates,  III,  271,  282. 

Congress  of  the  Confederation  (see  also 
Articles  of  Confederation,  Defects 
of  Confederation),  character  of,  I, 
133,  (142,)  336,  338,  340,  (346,  349); 
procedure  in,  I,  25,  200,  331,  484, 
II,  451,  548;  requisitions  of,  I,  190, 
341,  (347),  II,  358;  resolutions  of, 
on  Convention,  I,  (xi,  34,  41),  177, 
(i8c,  188),  II,  (506),  510,  III,  13, 
(15),  17,  (579);  powers  of,  to  be 
vested  in  Congress  (see  Powers  of 
Congress);  continuance  of ,  1, 22,  (28), 
117,  (121,  126),  11,46. 

Coneress  of  the  Constitution  (see  Index 
by  Clauses,  Powers  of  Congress, 
Property  qualifications,  etc.) 

Congress  of  United  States,  resolution  of 
to  print  journal  of  Convention,  III, 
425,  (see  also  House  of  Representa- 
tives, Senate). 

Connecticut,  (see  also  States);  delegates 
from,  in  Convention,  I,  7,  (10,  13), 
29,  (33),  76,  (79),  ni,  557,  587,  588, 
590;  credentials  of  delegates  from,  I, 
189,  III,  585;  report  of  delegates 
from,  to  governor.  III,  99;  number 
of  representatives  in  first  house,  I, 

557,  (559),  563,  (566),  573,  n,  (12), 
13;  proposed  number  of  electors  of 
executive  for,  II,  58,  (60,  63);  aboli- 
tion of  slavery  in,  II,  371;  com- 
mercial relations  of,  I,  197,  (207), 
286,  (297),  II,  306,  307,  452;  dispute 
of,  with  Pennsylvania,  I,  326;  elec- 
tions in,  I,  314,  (325),  357,  423,  424, 
(432),  II,  29;  in  Revolution,  I,  487, 
(497,  504);  money  bills  in,  I,  2j^; 
refusal  of,  to  comply  with  requisi- 
tions, I,  485,  487,  (497),  498,  (505). 
Connecticut  convention,  remarks  of  Ells- 
worth in.  III,  240. 


6s6 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Consolidation  of  the  onion,  II,  584,  667, 

HI.  464. 

Constitution,  text  of,  II,  651;  siening  of, 
II,  644,  (649);  printed  drafts  of,  I, 
zziii,  II,  177,^90;  ratification  of 
(see  Index  by  Clauses,  Introduction 
of,  and  Submission  of  Constitution); 
objections  to  (see  Gerry,  Mason, 
Randolph). 

Convention,  origin  of.  III,  545;  author- 
ized by  congress  (see  Congress  of 
Confederation);  place  of  meeting  of, 

I,  xi,  I,  (5),  III,  20,  58;  hours 
of  meeting  and  adjournment  of,  I,  2, 

II,  (322),  328,  368,  (399),  406,  III, 
69»  75,  81,  137,  1^8;  adioumment 
of,  over  4th  of  July,  I,  (509),  516, 
(c2o);  adjournment  of,  for  ten  days, 
II,  (118),  128;  delegates  in  attend- 
ance on,  III,  586;  powers  of,  I,  177, 
(182,  184,  18c,  188,  189),  240-279* 
283,  (294,  301),  314,  324,  (32s),  3}i, 

332,  336,  338,  345»  (346,  349),  IIIj 
143,  215;  purpose  of,  (see  Defects  of 
Confederation);  a  second,  proposed, 
n,  479,  561,  564, 631,  (634),  III,  125, 
2^2,  354;  adjourns  sine  die,  II,  649, 
(650). 
Cooper,  Thomas,  letter  of  Madison  to, 

HI.  474. 

Council  for  President,  I,  6S,  II,  135,  285, 

328,427,638,  III,  III. 
Council    of    Revision    (see    Index    by 

Clauses,  Art.  I,  Sect.  7,  Clause  2). 

Council  of  Sute,  II,  335,  (342,  533),  537, 

^     539,  541.  543,  638. 

Court  of  appeals  of  Confederation,  II, 

431- 
Coxe,  Tench,  writes  to  Madison  of  a 

petition  against  the  slave  trade.  III, 

361. 

Credentials  of  delegates.  III,  559-586; 
cited,  I,  34,  43.  177,  (182,  185,  188, 
189),  249,  (257). 

Cromwell,  II,  370,  451. 

Crown  lands  (see  Index  by  Qauses,  Art. 
IV,  Sect.  3). 

Cutler,  Manasseh,  records  in  his  journal 
a  visit  to  Philadelphia  while  Conven- 
tion is  in  session.  III,  58. 

Cutting,  J.  B^  writes  to  Jefferson  con- 
cerning Martin  and  Mercer  in  Con- 
vention, III,  339. 

Dana,  Francis,  appointed  delegate  from 
Massachusetu,  III,  (557),  584. 

Dane,  Nathan,  writes  to  King  on  secrecy 
of  proceedings.  III,  48,  and  on  ex- 
pectations from  Convention,  III,  54. 

Davie,  William  Richardson,  delegate 
from  North  Carolina,  attendance  of, 
at  Convention,  III,  587;  character 
sketch  of.  III,  55,  95^  elected  on 
committees,  I,  509,  (516,  520),  II, 


(12);  favors  impeachment  of  execu- 
tive, I,  78,  (88),  II,  64;  favors  com- 
promise in  composition  of  senate,  I, 
487,.  (498,  505)*  542;  favors  com- 
mitting representation  in  house  to 
special  committee,  I,  542;  favors 
three-fifths  of  slaves  in  representa- 
tion, I,  5(^3;  proposes  eight  years 
for  executive,  ll,  102;  favors  seven 
years  for  executive  and  ineligibility, 

II,  120;  writes  to  Iredell  on  attend- 
ance and  organization  of  Conven- 
tion, III,  31,  and  on  his  retiring 
from  Convention,  60,  6j;  writes  to 
Caswell,  on  his  retiring  from  Con- 
vention, III,  74;  in  the  North 
Carolina  convention:  explains  the 
difficulties  of  Convention,  III,  340^ 
defends  three-fifths  rule,  342,  ex- 
plains ofiSce  of  vice  president  and 
control  of  congress  over  elections, 
J 43,  explains  publication  of  proceed- 
ings "from  time  to  time,"-  345,  ex- 
plains election  of  president,  346, 
explains  treaty  making  power,  347, 
and  explains  paper  money,  349;  fa- 
vored Constitution,  III,  47^ 

Davis,  Professor,  letter  of  Madison  to, 

III,  518. 

Dayton,  Eiias,  letter  of  Jonathan  Dayton 
to,  III,  80.  - 

Dayton,  Jonathan,  delegate  from  New 
Jersey,  attendance  of,  at  Conven- 
tion, III,  587;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  90,  235;  appointed  on  com- 
mittee, II,  410,  (418);  opposes  pay- 
ment of  senate  by  states,  I,  428, 

(433);  f'jYon  rattaKry  ^^  yp^'^  r 

house^  f.  4^5,  U^6)i  ^favors  eoaal 
Arote^in-srnatr,  I  490,  (499;,  ii,  5; 


thinks  Pennsylvania  the  dividing 
state  between  north  and  south,  1, 
567;  apposes  slavery,  II,  223;  favors 
restnctions  on  standing  army,  II, 
330;  favors  modification  of  dausc 
on  control  of  militia,  II,  385,  386; 
opposes  plan  to  decide  controversies 
between    states,    II,    401;    opposes 

i'oint  ballot  in  election  of  president, 
I,  402;  moves  that  in  election  of 
President  each  state  have  one  vote, 
I,  403,  (404):  favors  wide  power  of 
intervention  by  United  States,  II, 
467;  moves  for  ratification  by  ten 
states,  II,  477;  opposes  two-thirds 
vote  for  ratification  of  treaties,  II, 
549;  fears  Pennsylvania  will  tax 
New  Jersey  under  inspection  duties, 
II,  589;  signs  Constitution,  II,  664; 
writes  to  £lias  Da3rton  on  progress 
m  Convention,  III,  80;  in  House  of 
Representatives:  explains  one  fea- 
ture of  the  election  01  president.  III, 
364,  and  explains  clause  on  importa- 


GENERAL   INDEX 


6s7 


Da3rton,  Jonathan  (CanHnued) 

tion  of  slaves,  $yj;  in  Senate:  ex- 
plains office  of  vice  president,  III, 
^99i ^plains  inff  "^'tfl  of  small  stal 
^n^  Clonvenuon7400,  explainf  com- 
promise in  election  of  president,  401, 

402,  and  explains  the  establishment 
of  seat  of  government,  408;  letter 
of  Brearley  to,  III,  37. 

Debts,  assumption  of  state  (see  Index 

by  Clauses,  Art.  VI). 
Declaration    of   Independence,    I,    324, 

(329). 
Defects  of  Confederation,  I,  18,  (23),  24, 

122,  126,  156,  IS9,  164,  (168),  171, 
179,  (187),  ass,  262,  (273),  284,  30A, 
316,  J26,  341,  343,  (347,  348),  426, 

4*8,  (433),  437,  439,  4^7,  483,  49^, 
501,  5S4,  II,  7,  10,  149,  558,  649, 
III,  13,  15,  SI,  107,  124,  (145),  542, 
S47;  purpose  of  Convention  to 
correct,  I,  167,  255,  474,  4^4,  498, 
II,  138,  III,  S49,  SS9-586. 
Delaware,  (see  also  States);  delegates 
in  Convention,  from  I,  i,  (3,  $),  7, 
tie).   16,   (17),  37,  (40),  242,  334, 

(344),  II,  193,  in,  ss^f  587,  590; 

credentials  of  delegates  from,  I,  4, 

(6),  37,  (40),  HI,  57^,  S7S;  num. 
ber  of  representatives  m  first  house 
from.  I,  557,  (SS9),  563,  (566),  573, 
II,  (12),  13;  proposed  number  of 
electors  of  executive  from,  II,  s8, 
(60,  63);  in  comparison  with  large 
states,  I,  167,  (170,  172,  173),  462, 

403,  606,  11,  9;  in  commercial 
relations   with   neighboring    states, 

II,  306,  362;  in  congress  of  con- 
federation, I,  319,  470,  (478). 

Delegates  to  Convention,  list  of  those 
appointed.  III,  ^^y;   credentials  of, 

III,  SS9;  attencUnce  of.  III,  s86. 
Demosthenes,  I,  307. 

Departments  (see  Admiralty,  Com- 
merce, Domestic  affairs.  Finance, 
Foreign  affairs.  Marine,  War). 

Dickinson,  John,  delegate  from  Dela- 
ware, attendance  of,  at  Convention, 
III,  S87;  character  sketch  of,  III, 
92  237;  elected  on  committees,  II, 
322,  (328),  366,  (^75),  473,  (481), 
607;  favors  amending  confederation, 
I,  42;  favors  limitea  monarchy,  I, 
86,  (90,  92);  wants  executive  powers 
defined,  I,  74;  moves  executive  be 
removable  upon  request  of  state 
legislatures,  I,  (78),  85,  (89,  92); 
favors  representatives  elected  by 
people  and  senate  chosen  by  state 
legislatures,  I,  87,  136,  (141,  141, 
149),  150, 152.  (156, 158),  150,  (160), 
196,  (205,  207),  2^2, 11,  223,  III,  554; 
opposes  joining  judiciary  in  execu- 
Uve  veto,  I,  io8»  lio^  140,  (144); 


favors  national  judiciaiy  rather  than 
state  courts,  I,  12s,  (128);  favors 
negative  on  state  laws,  I,  167,  168, 
(172);  moves  substitute  for  first  res- 
olution of  New  Jersev  plan,  I,  281, 
(282);  proposes  combining  Virginia 
and  New  Jersey  plans,  I,  327;  fav- 
ors three  years  term  and  rotation 
for  representatives,!,  ^60,  (36s, 
367);  favors  election  of  executive 
by  people,  II,  114:  opposes  quali- 
fications for  office  holding  in  Con- 
stitution, II,  123;  favors  restricting 
rights  of  election  of  first  branch 
II,  202,  (207,  209);  favors  modi- 
fication of  residence  qualification 
for  representatives,  II,  218:  favors 
restricting  money  bills,  II,  278; 
favors  payment  of  both  houses 
the  same,  and  opposes  payment  by 
states,  II,  292,  293;  opposes  right 
of  courts  to  declare  laws  unconsti- 
tutional, II,  299;  thinks  felonies 
sufficiently  defined  by  common  law, 
II,  3 16;  moves  modification  of  word- 
ing in  clause  concerning  rebellion 
in  a  state,  II,  318;  favors  appoint- 
ments made  by  legislature,  11,  329; 
proposes  to  restrain  power  over 
militia  to  one  fourth  at  a  time,  II, 
331;  remarks  on  clause  on  treason, 
II,  346,  349;  moves  to  limit  number 
of  representatives  allowed  to  each 
state^  II,  3s6;  opposes  absolute  pro- 
hibition of  export  tax,  II,  361;  op- 
poses importation  of  slaves.  II,  372, 
416;  favors  ratification  of  treaties 
by  law,  II,  393;  moves  to  amend 
wording  of  clause  on  appointment 
of  officers,  II,  405;  favors  postpone- 
ment of  clause  on  succession  to  presi- 
dency, II,  427;  favors  proposal  for 
removal  of  judges,  II,  428,  429; 
favors  jurisdiction  of  supreme  court 
"both  as  to  law  and  fact,"  II,  431; 
quotes  Blackstone  on  ex  post  facto 
laws,  II,  ^8;  opposes  small  states 
securing  large  states  in  western 
claims,  II,  456;  moves  clause  con- 
cerning formation  of  new  states,  II, 
46s;  opposes  federal  intervention  on 
the  application  of  state  legislature, 
II,  400,  467;  asks  whether  concur- 
rence of  congress  is  essential  to 
ratification  of  Constitution,  II,  469; 
favors  eventual  election  of  presi- 
dent by  legislature  instead  of  senate, 
II,  $1^;  moves  that  majority  of 
electors  be  of  the  total  number,  II, 
5 IS;  favors  council  for  president, 
il,  ^42;  favors  assent  of  congress 
for  inspection  laws,  II,  580;  moves 
verbal  amendment  in  final  draft  of 
Constitution,  II,  607;    signs  Con- 


6s8 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Dickiaion,  John  (Continued) 

stitution,  II,  664;  requests  Read  to 
sign  his  name  to  Constitution,  III, 
81;  in  the  Letters  of  Fabius  writes 
on  the  compromise  on  representation, 
III,  304;  letter  of  Read  to.  III,  24. 

Direct  taxation  to  be  according  to  repre- 
sentation until  census  is  taken,  I, 
(598),  600,  II,  106,  131,  168,  (339), 

^     350,  (35?).  357. 

Domestic  affairs,  department  of,  II,  329, 

^  335.(34*),  367..  ^  ^       ,^^ 

Door-keeper,  appomtment  of,  I,  2,  (6). 

Dorchester  reports  to  Sidney  concernine 
plans  submitted  to  Convention,  III, 
353:  letter  of  Sidney  to,  III,  80. 

Duer,W.  A.,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III,  534. 

Dutch  Confederacy  (see  Netherlands). 

Duties  and  imposts  explained,  II,  305. 

Duval,  Gabriel,  appointed  delegate  from 
Maryland,  III,  558. 

Eastern  States,  (see  also  New  England, 
Northern  sUtes),  I,  566,  573,  581, 
6cu,  II,  221,  449,  A51,  III,  23. 

Edward  III,  statute  of,  relating  to  trea- 
son, 11,^5* 

Election  of.  first  president  (see  Introduc- 
tion of  Constitution). 

Electors  of  executive,  to  meet  in  one 
place,  II,  95,  no,  (518,  525),  526; 
to  be  paid  out  of  national  treasury, 

II,  (71),  73. 

Ellsworth,  Oliver,  delegate  from  Con- 
necticut, attendance  at  Convention 
of,  III,  587;    character  sketch  of, 

III,  8|9,  233;  elected  on  commit- 
tees, I,  509,  (si6,  520)  II,  (12), 
97,  (106);  favors  legislative  power 
where  states  incompetent,  1,  C4; 
proposes  substitute  tor  first  resolu- 
tion of  New  Jersey  plan,  I,  25^, 
(262);  moves  to  substitute  Uni- 
ted States  for  "national,"  I,  (334), 
335,  (344);  supports  all  features  of 
compromise  on  representation,  I, 
193,  (201),  406,  (414,  A17,  463),  468, 
471,  (474,  477),484»  (492,  495,  502, 
504),  532,  553,  569,  594,  595,  597, 
602,  II,  94,  350,  358;  favors  rau- 
fication  by  state  legislatures,  I,  335, 
II,  88,  90;  favors  one  year  for 
term  of  representatives,  I,  214,  361, 
(368);  favors  payment  of  members 
of  congress,  I,  371,  (374,  377),  379, 
427,  (43 j),  n,  290,  292,  293;  thinks 
Connecticut  did  more  than  her  share 
in  Revolution.  I,  487,  (497,  504); 
asks  whether  a*good  measure  has  ever 
failed  in  congress  for  lack  of  a  ma- 
jority of  states,  II,  II;  opposes  elec- 
tion of  executive  by  people,  II,  57, 
58,  59,  63,  loi,  108,  in;  favors 
association  of  judges  in  veto,  II,  73; 


favors  appointment  of  judges  by 
senate,  ll,  81;  opposes  too  strict 
qualifications  for  election  of  members 
of  congress,  II,  126,  201,  202,  (207), 
217,  218,  235,  249,  250;  favors  fix- 
ing time  of  meeting  of  congress,  II, 
198,  200;  thinks  amendments  will 
be  made  to  Constitution,  II,  221; 
opposes  limitation  of  money  bills. 
It,  224,  233;  favors  filling  of  vacan- 
cies in  senate  by  state  executives,  II, 
231,  232;  favors  freedom  to  congress 
to  regulate  its  own  affairs,  II,  253, 
255,  260;  favors  ineligibility  of  mem- 
bers of  congress,  II,  288;  opposes 
postponing  so  many  questions,  II, 
301;  favors  prohibition  of  export 
taxes,  II,  307,  359,  361;  favors  pro- 
hibition of  paper  money  altogether, 
II,  309;  favors  extension  oi  powers 
of  congress,  II,  316,  317,  319,  345; 
thinks  commitment  of  state  debts 
unnecessary  II,  327,  356,  357;  fa- 
vors a  council  for  president,  II, 
328;  favors  only  uniformity  of  mili- 
tia, II,  330,  332,  385,  386;  op- 
poses sumptuary  laws,  II,  344;  fa- 
vors definition  of  treason,  II,  346, 
347,  349,  remarks  on  sovereignty 
ot  states,  II,  349;  favors  leaving 
slavery  alone,  ll,  364,  370,  375; 
opposes  prohibiting  ex  post  facto 
laws,  II,  376;  thinks  it  unnecessary 
for  congress  to  have  power  to  fufiU 
engagements  of  confederation,  II, 
377*  opposes  negative  on  state  laws, 

II,  391;  in  The  Landholder:  ex- 
plains submission  of  Constitution  to 
people.  III,  137,  comments  on  num- 
ber of  representatives,  143,  praises 
spirit  of  Convention,  168,  critidzet 
Gerry's  action  in  Convention,  170, 
and  criticizes  Martin's  behavior  in 
Convention,  271;  in  Connecticut 
convention  explains  powers  of  con- 
gress, III,  2^0;  describes  his  own 
part  in  forming  Constitution,  III, 
396;  part  taken  in  Convention  by, 
aescnoed  by  Madison,  III,  538;  fa- 
vored constitution.  III,  476. 

Embargo,  II,  135,  360,  t6i,  (435),  140. 
Enacting  style  dt  laws,  II,  155,  166,  180, 

568,  ?93. 
England  (see  Great  Britain). 
Eppes,  J.  W.,  writes  to  Madison  about 

copying  his  notes  of  debates,  III,  417. 
Everett,  Edward,  letter  of  Madison  to, 

III,  476. 

Executive  officers  not  to  hold  any  other 
office  under  United  States  or  indi- 
vidual sute,  II,  335,  (341). 

Fabius,  Letters  of  (see  Dickinson). 
Federal,  meaning  of,  I,  (323),  331. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


6S9 


Federal  Convention  (see  Convention). 
Federal  government,  definition  of,  I,  283, 

(30i)- 
Federalist,  bv  Hamilton  and  Madison, 

extracts  from.  III,  239, 243,  257, 270. 

Felony,  II,  316,  III,  332. 

Few,  William,  delegate  from  Geoma,  at- 
tendance of,  at  Convention,  III,  587; 
character  sketch  of.  III,  97,  238; 
elected  on  committee,  II,  ^10,  (418); 
signs  Constitution,  II,  605;  in  his 
autobiography,  refers  to  compromise 
on  representation.  III,  423. 

Finance,  department  of,  II,  53,  329,  335, 

(34O,  367- 

Findley,  William,  in  House  of  Represen- 
tatives refers  to  president's  power  of 
appointment  as  adopted  in  Conven- 
tion, III,  375. 

Fisheries,  I,  604,  II,  419,  548. 

Fitzsimons,  Thomas,  delegate  from  Penn- 
sylvania, attendance  at  Convention 
of,  III,  588;  character  sketch  of.  III, 
91;  of  foreign  birth,  II,  269;  ap- 
pointed on  committee,  II,  410,  (418); 
seconds  motion  to  restrain  right 
of  su£Frage  to  freeholders,  II,  201; 
objects  to  absolute  prohibition  of 
export  tax,  II,  362,  589;  favors  pro- 
hibition of  preferences  in  commerce, 

II,  480;  favors  power  to  improve 
harbors,  II,  529;  favors  ratifica- 
tion of  treaties  by  house,  II,  538; 
opposes  requiring  approbation  of 
congress  to  ratify  Constitution,  II, 
560;  considers  publication  of  expen- 
ditures impossible,  II,  619;  signs 
Constitution,  II,  664. 

Force,  use  of,  (see  also  Index  by  Qauses), 
I,  i6±,  (169,  171),  243,  245,  (247), 
284,  (296,  302),  306,  320,  (327),  339, 
041.  346,  349,  352),  506,  II,  9,  289, 

^      (354),  359.    _, 

Foreign  affairs,  department  and  secre- 

ury  of,  I,  139,  II,  S3,  135,  136,  158, 

^      J29,  ?3S,  336,  (341,  343),  367. 

Foreign  influence,  danger  of,  (see  also 
Index  by  Qauses,  Art.  I,  Sect.  9, 
Qause  8,  and  Sect.  10,  Clause  i),  1, 
319.    (327),   466,    492,    (501),    S30, 

^      (S37),  n,  236,  268,  269, 452,  548. 

Foreigners,  (see  under  qualifications  of 
officers  in  Index  by  Clauses). 

France,  1, 448,  (456, 458),  489,  (499,  505), 

11,289,306,307,371. 
Franklin,  Benjamin,  delegate  from  Penn- 
sylvania, attendance  of,  at  Conven- 
tion, III,  588;    character  sketch  of, 

III,  91,  236;  elected  on  commit- 
tees, I,  509,  (516,  520),  II,  (12), 
607;  favors  legislature  of  one  house, 
I,  48,  III,  297;  favors  extension  of 
negative  on  state  laws,  I,  47,  (54, 
61};  urges  delegates  to  speak  freely. 


I,  65;  favors  no  salaries,  I,  (77),  81, 
(89,  91),  216,  427,  II,  626;  opposes 
absolute  veto,  I,  94,  99,  (103,  106, 
107,  109);  suggests  appointment  of 
judges  by  lawyers,  I,  119,  (128): 
proposese  qual  contributions  ana 
equal  representation  from  each  state, 
I|jiQQ:  fears  executive  may  develop 
into  monarchy,  I,  (102),  103,  (108); 
moves  for  prayers  in  Convention,  I, 
450,  (457);  favors  compromise  on 
representation, -.L197,   (205),  488, 


(49S,  505);  507»  523r526;-|43,  546, 
lljj^}  favors  increase  of  salanes 
of^judges,  II,  44;  favors  impeach- 
ment, II,  65,  67;  favors  ineligibil- 
ity to  second  term,  II,  120;  opposes 
restrictions  in  election  of  members 
of  congress,  II,  204,  (208,  210).  236, 
239,  (243),  249;  favors  amendment 
to  clause  on  treason,  II,  348;  favors 
council  of  state,  II,  ^42;  favors 
second  general  convention,  II,  564; 
favors  power  to  cut  canals,  II,  615, 
(620);  favors  strong  government, 
III,  152,  154,  178,  190;  urges  unani- 
mous action  in  signing  Constitution, 

II,  641, 646, 647,  (649),  III,  (170); 

comments  while  members  are  sini- 
ing,  II,  648;  signs  Constitution,  II, 
664;  writes  to  Price  on  purpose  of 
Convention,  III,  21;  writes  to 
Jordan  of  dinner  to  delegates.  III, 
21;  anecdote  of  Convention  by.  III, 
CO;  writes  to  Jones  on  progress  of 
Q)nvention  and  his  illness,  ill,  61; 
writes  to  Mrs.  Mecom  on  attendance 
at  Convention,  III,  08;  writes  to 
Mr.  Grand  on  attendance  at  Con- 
vention, III,  131;  writes  to  Le 
Veillard:  concerning  his  attendance 
at  Convention,  III,  270,  and  in  fa- 
vor of  legislature  of  one  house,  2^7; 
writes  to  Federal  Gazette  on  divine 
influence  in  Convention,  III,  296; 
writes  to  de  la  Rochefoucauld  on 
election  of  president.  III,  354. 

Franklin,  state  of,  II,  94,  455. 

Franklin,  William  Temple,  proposed  as 
secretary  of  Convention,  I,  4,  (6), 
III,  26. 

French  Archives,  extracts  from.  III,  15, 
39, 61, 232. 

Fry,  Joseph,  appointed  door-keeper,  I,  2. 

Gales,  Joseph,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III, 

Gallatin  in  House  of  Representatives 
refers   to   incident   in   Convention, 

HI,  379. 
Galloway,  proposal  of,  I,  178,  (184): 
Genet,  Edmond  C,  printing  of  Yates's 

notes  by,  I,  xiv,  III,  410. 
George  II,  I,  391. 


/ 


f 


660 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Georgia,  (see  alto  States),  delegates  from, 

I,  a,  (3),  45»  (47),  6a,  (6a),  192.  (106), 
ni,  ?59,  587-589;  credentiaU  of,  I, 
45,  62,  18^,  III,  576;  actuated  by 
selfish  motives,  I,  491,  (500);  num- 
ber of  representatives  in  first  house 
from,  I,  557,  (559),  563,  (564,  566), 
568,  573,  587, 11,  (iVy  13;  proposed 
number  of  electors  of  executive  from, 

II,  q8,  (60,  63);  conditions  in,  I, 
(316),  326,  (330),  604,  II,  28,  59,  238, 
371,  372,  449,  463,  465. 

Germany,  I,  (283),  285,  290,  (294.  296), 
303,  (307),  317,  319,  (326,  330),  343, 
(348, 350),  449,  (456, 458),  485,  {504). 
530, 552,  (555,  556),  11, 100. 

Gerry,  Dbridge,  delegate  from  Massachu- 
setts, attendance  at  Convention  of, 

III,  588;  characterization  of,  III,  88, 
104,  171,  233,  518;  elected  on  com- 
mittees, I,  509,  (516,  520),  522,  II, 
(12);  doubts  power  of  G>nvention,  I, 
(34),  42;  opposes  elections  by  people, 

1, 48,  50.  (55,  56,  57),  131,  (140, 142), 
152,  IJA,  (157),  II,  114;  favors  being 

guided  by  public  opinion,  I,  61,  215, 
(221);  favors  annual  election  oif  rep- 
resentatives, I,  214,  (220);  favors 
restrictions  on  election  of  members 
of  congress,  11,6^,  122, 123, 125,  268; 
favors  ineligibility  of  members  of 
congress  to  office,  I,  388,  (390),  393, 
394,  429,  II,  285,  491;  favors  com- 
promise on  representation,  I,  (201), 
205.  (208),  219. 425,  («2),  467,  (474, 
479),  515,  (519),  524.  (526),  527,  532, 
(535).  540,  550»  551,  (553,  555),  569, 
580,  597,  600,  603,  II.  2,  5,  15,  19, 
357^  opposes  general  negative  on 
state  laws,  I,  165,  (170,  171,  173); 
favors  restrictions  on  powers  of  con- 
gress, II,  253, 307,  308,  329,  330,  344, 
362,^75,  509,  510,  588,  613,  617, 
018, 019;  favors  restriction  of  money 
biUs,  I,  (224),  233,  238,  545,  II,  275; 
opposes  control  of  militia,  II,  332, 
385,  386,  388;  favors  additional 
powers  to  congress,  I,  165,  (170, 
173),  II,  255,  260,  308,  J 19,  328, 177. 
5  CO,  553;  favors  provision  for  deots, 
II,  326,  356,  413;  opposes  various 
other  plans  for  executive  and  sug- 
gests his  own,  I,  (66),  to,  72,  (74), 
80,  (91),  97,  (loc,  149),  156,  i6j, 
(168.  174),  175,  (180),  II,  58,  (63), 
98,  100,  loi,  102,  103,  105,  109,  112, 
114,  115,  511,  54,  521,  522,  53{, 
536,  539;  favors  impeachment,  11, 
66,  428,  550;  favors  limited  execu- 
tive veto  without  association  of 
judges,  I,   (94),  97,  98,   104,  (105, 

107),  139.  (144),  n,  74,  78,  298,  586; 
favors  a  large  proportion  of  votes  to 
ratify  treaties,   II,  541,   548,  549; 


favors  amendment  of  Constitution^ 

I,  122,  II,  557,  558,  629,  630; 
opposes  oath  to  support  Constitu- 
tion, I,  203.  (207),  II,  87,  88;  favors 
approval  ot  congress  to,  and  opposes 

rpular  ratification  of  Constitution, 
,  123,  II,  89, 478, 479,  559,  c6i.  562, 
563;  objects  to  cntidsm  of  Massa- 
chusetts, II,  5;  favors  appointment 
of  judges  by  senate,  II,  82;  moves 
to  refer  proceedings  to  committee 
of  detail,  II,  05;  opposes  a  law  to 
change  seat  of  government,  II,  127, 
262;  comments  on  payment  of  mem- 
bers of  congress,  ll,  291;  opposes 
coercion  of  a  state,  II,  317:  moves 
to  "declare*'  instead  of  "make"  war, 

II,  318;  opposes  heads  of  depart- 
ments dealing  with  legislature,  II, 
329;  favors  non-interference  with 
slavery  in  states,  II,  372;  favors  trial 
by  jury  in  dvil  cases,  II,  587,  628; 
moves  amendment  on  admission  of 
states,  II,  628;  objections  of,  I  to 
the  Constitution,  II,  632,  635,  III, 
128;    refuses  to  sign  Constitudoo, 

II,  646,  649;  notes  of  proceedings  in 
Convention,   by,   I,   xxiii,   II,  635, 

III,  261,  263;  writes  to  Monroe  on 
importance  of  Convention,  III,  45; 
wntes  to  Warren  on  progress  of  Con- 
vention, III,  69;  explains  to  legisla- 
ture of  Massachusetts  his  objections 
to  the  Constitution,  III,  128;  replies 
to  Landholder  defending  his  objec- 
tions, III,  239;  reports  to  Massa- 
chusetts convention  on  number  of 
representatives.  III,  261,  263;  replies 
to  Landholder  defending  himself 
and  Martin,  III,  298;  in  House  <^ 
Representatives:  explains  power  of 
congress  to  assume  state  debts.  III, 
360,  explains  power  to  establish  a 
national  bank,  362,  and  explains 
equality  in  senate,  36a. 

Gilman,  Joseph,  letters  01  Nicholas  GQ- 
man  to,  III,  66,  82. 

Gilman,  Nicholas,  delegate  from  New 
Hampshire,  attendance  at  Conven- 
tion of.  III,  588;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  87,  232;  elected  on  committee, 
n,  473,  (^81);  signs  Consdtutioii, 
11,664.;  wntes  to  Joseph  Gilman:  on 
progress  of  Convention,  III,  66,  and 
on  the  ending  of  Convention's  work, 
82;  writes  to  President  Sullivan  on 
closing  of  Convention,  III,  82. 

Ginseng,  II,  360. 

Gorham,  Nathaniel,  delegate  from  Massa- 
chusetts, attendance  at  Convention 
of,  III,  588;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  87;  elected  chairman  of  com- 
mittee of  whole,  and  presents  daily 
report,  I,  29-312,  passim;  elected  00 


GENERAL   INDEX 


66i 


Gorham,  Nathaniel  (Conhnued) 

committees,  I,  538,  (542),  II,  97, 
(106),  410,  (418,  44S),  448;  favors 
seven  years  as  executive  term,  I,  72: 
is  doubtful  on  question  of  triennial 
election  of  representatives,  I,  215: 
favors  long  term  for  senate  and 
roution,  I,  219,  408,  (415,  421),  430; 
favors  substituting  United  States 
for  "national,"  I,  (334),  335;  opposes 

fayment  of  representatives  by  states, 
»  372»  (377);  opposes  division  of 
western  lands  by  action  of  Conven- 
tion, I,  405,  (413);  favors  oropor- 
tional  representation  in  both  nouses, 

I,  404,  (412),  462,  (470,  479),  526, 
(535),  540,  559,  (562),  580,  583,  587, 

II,  12, 15, 94;  opposes  restrictions  on 
election  of  members  of  congress,  II, 
122,  125,  215,  (225),  270;  favors 
eligibility  of  members  of  congress  to 
offices,  I,  375,  (379),  II,  491;  favors 
extensive  powers  of  congress,  II,  17, 
122, 127,  240,  251,  255,  309,  329,  374, 
401,  A18,  (420),  «9,  453,  480,  587, 
589,  014,  (628);  favors  appointment 
of  judges  by  executive,  II,  41,  42, 
43,  44;  favors  inferior  courts,  11,  46; 
opposes  association  of  judges  in  exer- 
cise of  veto,  II,  73,  79;  opposes 
oath  to  support  Constitution,  it,  87; 
favors  elections  by  joint  ballot,  II, 
196,  402;  opposes  referring  report 
of  committee  of  detail  to  commit- 
tee of  whole,  II,  196;  favors  annual 
meeting  of  congress  at  a  fixed  time, 
II,  198,  (206)^  does  not  think  coun- 
try will  remain  one  nation,  II,  221; 
favors  power  of  senate  to  amend 
money  bills,  II,  224,  297;  thinks  sen- 
ators ought  to  be  paid  more  than 
representatives,  II,  293 ;  opposes  post- 
ponement of  so  many  questions,  II, 
300;  favors  ratification  of  Consti- 
tution by  conventions,  H,  90,  (^), 
476;  opposes  inserting  in  Constitu- 
tion adjustment  of  state  accounts 
with  United  States,  II,  357;  op- 
poses ratification  of  treaties  by  law, 
n,  392,  393;  favors  substituting 
1808  for  1800,  II,  415;  thinks  ux 
on  slaves  a  discouragement  to  im- 
portation, II,  416;  favors  clause  on 
interstate  recognition  of  acts,  II, 
447;  opposes  making  next  highest 
after  president  the  vice-president, 
II,  499;  objects  to  requiring  two- 
thirds  of  senate  to  be  present  in  elec- 
tion of  president,  II,  526;  opposes 
power  to  improve  harbors,  II,  529; 
favors  consent  of  president  to  rati- 
fication of  treaties,  II,  540, 549;  fears 
conditional  ratification  oy  states  will 
defeat  whole  plan,  II,  560;  proposes 


changing  ratio  of  representation  to 
30,000,  II,  643;   signs  Constitution, 

II,  664:  writes  to  Strong  on  pro- 
gress of  Convention,  III,  75. 

Graham,  Mrs.  Macauly,  letter  of  Wash- 
ington to,  III,  1^7. 

Grand,  letter  of  Franklin  to,  III,  131. 

Grayson,  William,  writes  to  Madison  de- 
scribing attitude  of  eastern  people, 

III,  26;  writes  to  Monroe  on  attitude 
of  different  sections  towards  Con- 
vention, III,  30. 

Great  Britain,  I,  186,  198,  200,  205, 
308, 448,  (456, 458),  465,  582,  II,  lOI. 
300,  370,  371,  489;  constitution  and 
government  of,  I,  50,  65,  66^  (71), 
82,  86,  (92),  97,  (105),  139,  153,  150, 
288,  289,  (299,  303,  J08),  398,  (410), 
II,  105,  542,  550,  III,  joi;  parlia- 
ment of,  1, 135, 136,  (143),  150,  (156), 
179,  (182,  184,  187,  191),  196,  288, 

399,  (410),  472,  484,  (495,  504),  545, 
II,  31,  199,  250,  251,  274,  301,  327, 
362;  negative  of  crown  in,  I,  98,  99, 
(107, 109),  139,  (144),  164,  168,  337, 
II,  28;  judges  in,  II,  73,  75,  428; 
money  bills  in,  I,  233,  234,  {238), 
II,  275,  278,  279;  elections  in,  I, 
132,  214,  218,  222,  337,  362,  584, 
II,  122, 126,  203,  204, 205,  (208,  210), 
216,  218,  (225),  236;  corruption  in, 

1,  loi,  337,  376,  (379),  380,  387, 491, 

II,  216,  (225),  405;  treaties  in,  I, 
426,  (433),  513,  II,  297,  298,  J93. 
(395)9  relations  of,  with  United 
States,  I,  605,  II,  216,  236,  271,  442. 

Great  Seal  of  United  Sutes,  II,  158,  335, 

(34^)- 
Greece,  1, 112, 135,  553,  II,  370,  371,  37?. 
Grimke,  T.  S.,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III, 

531- 

Hamilton,  Alexander,  delegate  from  New 
York,  attendance  of,  at  Convention, 

III,  588;  character  sketch  of.  III,  89, 
234,  418;   elected  on  committees,  I, 

2,  (4),  II,  547,  (553,  554);  nominates 
Jackson  for  secretary,  I,  4,  (6);  in- 
quires whether  United  States  capable 
of  one  government,  I,  27;  seconds 
motion  for  no  salary  to  executive, 
I,  85;  favors  unqualified  veto,  I, 
(94),  98,  107,  II,  585;  raises  point  of 
order,  I,  95,  (104);  favors  propor- 
tional representation,  I,  31,  ($6), 
193,  (202),  465,  (472,  477,  479); 
suggests  nomination  of  judges  by  ex- 
ecutive, I,  128;  favors  recommitting 
amended  Randolph  Resolutions  to 
committee  of  whole  with  New  Jer- 
sey plan,  I,  241;  denies  favoring  abo- 
lition of  state  governments,  I,  323, 
(328);  thinks  states  were  never  in- 
dependent of  each  other,  I,  324, 


662 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Hamilton,  Alexander  (Continued) 

(329);  opposes  election  of  represen- 
tatives by  state  legislatures,  1,  358, 
(364);  favors  three  year  term  for 
represenutives,  I,  302,  (366,  368); 
opposes  ineligibilitv  of  representa- 
tives to  office,  I,  (376),  381,  (390), 
394;  favors  long  term  for  senate,  X 
4jS;  favors  president  to  be  appointed 
by  senate,  III,  158;  opposes  ptagers 
\inConyentign.  l,^Ap\  favors  only 
JtfCaenshlpaiia  inhabitancv  for  rep- 
resenutives, II,  (265),  268;  favors 
new  plan  of  electing  president,  II, 
524,  (530);  favors  reconsidering 
number  of  representatives,  II,  553; 
favors  easier  amendment  of  Consti- 
tution, II,  558,  559;  thinks  appro- 
bation of  congress  to  G>n8titution 
necessary,  II,  560,  562;  urges  unani- 
mous signing  of  Constitution,  II, 
64 J ;  signs  Constitution,  II,  66^; 
wntes  to  Washington  on  pubhc 
opinion,  III,  C3;  writes  to  Auldjo 
on  challen^  from  Pierce,  III,  64; 
writes  to  Kmg  on  rumors  concerning 
work  of  Convention  and  offering  to 
return,  III,  70,  75;  in  the  Federalist 
explains  reason  for  general  powers 
vested  in  congress.  III,  239;  in 
New  York  Convention:  explains  the 
different  interests  in  the  Federal 
Convention,  III,  332,  explains  com- 
promise on  representation,  336,  337, 
defends  himself  against  the  charge  of 
inconsistency  in  Convention,  3^8; 
remarks  on  rejection  by  Convention 
of  the  power  to  cut  canals.  III, 
163 ;  writes  to  Carrington  concerning 
Madison's  expression  on  right  to  as- 
sume state  debts.  III,  366;  replies  to 
charges  of  his  opposing  the  Consti- 
tution, III,  368;  explains  his  pro- 
posals in  the  Federal  Convention, 
III,  395;  letter  of  Washington  to.  III, 
56;  letter  of  Pickering  to.  Ill,  399. 

Hamilton's  notes  of  proceedings  of  Con- 
vention, criticized,  I,  xxi;  text  of,  I, 
72,  145,  160,  173,  267,  304,  333,  350, 
368,  434. 

Hamilton's  plan  of  government,  I,  246, 
282,  291,  (294,  300,  301),  304,  (308), 

355..  (363,  366),  463,  (47O,  in,  617. 

Hanseatic  League,  I,  307. 

Harrison,  Robert  Hanson,  appointed  dele- 
gate from  Maryland,  III,  558. 

Hay,  George,  letter  of  Madison  to,  111,458. 

Hazard,  letter  of  Belknap  to.  Ill,  262. 

Heads  of  departments  (see  Domestic 
affairs,  Finance,  Foreign  affairs, 
Marine,  and  War). 

Henry,  Patrick,  appointed  delegate  from 
Virginia,  III,  (558),  561. 

Henry  IV  of  France,  I,  405,  (413). 


Hesse,  Prince  of,  I,  553. 

Hillhouse,  James,  letter  of  Madison  to^ 
III,  483. 

Holland  (see  Netherlands). 

House  of  Representatives,  speeches  in: 
by  Baldwin,  III,  358,  360,  364,  369, 
375.  376,  378,  380,  by  Dayton,  364, 
377.  379.  by  Findley,  375,  by  Madi- 
son, 3«,  356,  357,  361,  362,  $66, 
372,  by  Charles  Pmckney,  376, 
439.  445,  bjr  Sherman,  357,  358, 359, 
362,  by  Williamson,  365. 

Houston,  William  Churchill,  delegate 
from  New  Jersey,  (see  also  Hous- 
toun),  attendance  at  Convention  of, 
III,  588. 

Houstoun,  William  delegate  from  Geor- 
gia, (see  also  Houston),  attend- 
ance at  Convention  of.  III,  588; 
character  sketch  of,  III,  97;  elected 
on  committee,  I,  558,  (562);  votes 
against  equal  vote  in  senate,  I,  510; 
favors  increase  of  representation  of 
Geor^a,  I,  568;  moves  to  postpone 
question  of  term  of  executive,  II,  32; 
opposes  ineligibility  of  executive,  II, 
33;  opposes  guarantee  to  states,  II, 
48;  favors  adding  an  elector  to  New 
Hampshire  and  Georgia,  II,  64; 
favors  appointment  of  executive  by 
national  legislature,  II,  95, 99. 

Hume's  opinion  of  the  British  constitu- 
tion cited,  I,  (376),  381. 

Humphrey,  David,  letter  of  Washington 
to.  III,  103. 

Hurlbert,  M.  L.,  letter  of  Madison  to, 
III,  482. 

Immigration,  II,  235,  236,  268,  269,  37a 
Imposts  and  duties,  distinction  between, 

explained,  II,  305. 
Incorporation  (see  Powers  of  Congress.) 
Independence,  influence  of,  on  states,  I, 

340.  347. 
Indigo,  I,  510,  II,  360,  449. 

Ingersoll,  C.  J.,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III, 

495. 

Ingersoll,  Jared,  delegate  from  Penn- 
sylvania, attendance  at  Convention 
of.  III,  588;  character  sketch  of.  III, 
91;  signs  Constitution,  II,  647,  664; 
writes  to  Johnson  concerning  Jackson 
as  secretary  of  Convention,  III,  18. 

Internal  improvements  (see  Powers  of 
Congress). 

Internal  police,  II,  26,  367. 

Introduction  of  new  government  under 
Constitution,  II,  149,  160,  174,  189, 
579,  604,  (608),  665. 

Iredell,  James,  letters  of  Davie  to.  III, 
31,  60,  67;  letters  of  Spaij^ht  to, 
III,  54,  68;  letters  of  Williamson 
to,  III,  55,  61. 

Ireland  (see  Great  Britain). 


i 


GENERAL  INDEX 


663 


Jackson,  J.  G.,  letter  of  Madison  to,  III, 
448. 

Jackson,  William,  secretary  of  Conven- 
tion, I,  xii,  (2),  4,  (6),  32;  attests 
official  copy  of  Constitution,  II, 
664;  notes  of  debates  kept  by,  I, 
(xii,  zziii),  III,  426,  476;  writes  to 
Washington  applying  for  secretary- 
ship of  Convention,  III,  18;  writes 
to  Washington  announcing  his  call- 
ing to  turn  over  papers  ot  Conven- 
tion, III,  82;  letter  of  Pickering  to. 

in,  476. 

James  II  of  England,  II,  405. 
ay,  John,  writes  to  Washington  sug- 
gesting restriction  on  admission  of 
foreigners,  III,  61;   letter  of  Wash- 
ington to.  III,  76. 

Jefferson,  Thomas,  writes  to  John  Adams 
on  secrecy  of  Convention,  III,  76; 
(quotes  from  proceedings  of  Conven- 
tion on  power  to  establish  national 
bank.  III,  363;  records  Washington's 
attitude  on  constitutionality  of  ap- 
portionment bill,  itl,  366;  writes  to 
Adams  about  Madison's  notes  of  de- 
bates, III,  421;  letter  of  Carrington 
to,  III,  37;  letter  of  Cutting  to, 
III»  339!  letters  of  Madison  to,  III, 
20, 34, 60,  77, 131,  372,  381, 416, 461; 
letter  of  Mason  to.  III,  304;  letter 
of  Monroe  to.  III,  65;  letter  of 
Washington  to,  III,  31;    letter  of 

to,  on  some  of  the  delegates, 

III,  104. 

Jenifer,  Daniel  of  St.  Thomas,  dele- 
gate from  Maryland,  attendance  at 
Convention  of.  III,  588;  character 
sketch  of.  III,  03;  proposes  three 
years  for  term  ot  representatives,  I, 
214,  (220);  favors  ineligibility  of 
representatives  to  office,  I,  394; 
opposes  Martin  on  compromise  on 
representation,  I,  510,  543,  II,  190; 
joins  in  conference  of  Maryland 
delegates,  II,  190,  209,  212;  does 
not  think  confederation  can  be 
amended  successfully,  II,  191;  votes 
for  one  j^ear  previous  inhabitancy 
for  representatives,  II,  226;  votes 
against  referring  appointments  to 
omce  to  state  executives,  II,  420; 
favors  prohibition  of  preferences  in 
commerce,  II,  481;  signs  Constitu- 
tion, II,  664. 

Jews,  letter  of  Phillips  to  Convention  in 
behalf  of,  III,  78. 

Johnson,  William  Samuel,  delegate  from 
Connecticut,  attendance  at  Conven- 
tion of,  III,  j88;  character  sketch 
of,  III,  88;  elected  on  committees, 

II,  366,  (375»  44S)»  448»  547,.  (S53, 
554),   607;    favors    preservation  of 

state   governments,   I,    (407),   415, 


(417);^  favors  proportional  repre- 
sentation in  lower  house  and  equal 
representation  in  upper  house,  I, 
354,  (362,  366),  461,  468,  (470,  476, 
479),.  593;  favors  amendment  of 
wording  of  clause  on  treason,  II, 
346,  ^47;  thinks  prohibition  of  ex 
post  Mcto  laws  unnecessary,  II,  376, 
(378);  opposes  ratification  of  treaties 
by  law,  ll,  393;  opposes  plan  of 
confederation  for  deciding  contro- 
versies between  states,  II,  401; 
thinks  no  declaration  necessary  to 
make  debts  binding  on  new  govern- 
ment, II,  414;  moves  modincation 
of  clause  on  jurisdiction,  II,  428, 4^0; 
explains  meaning  of  clause  on  in- 
terstate recognition,  II,  4^.7,  488; 
thinks  Vermont  ought  to  te  com- 
pelled to  come  into  the  union,  II, 
456;  moves  modification  of  clause 
concerning  division  of  states,  II,  463; 
presents  report  of  committee  of  style, 

II,  (582),  585,  604, '(608);  favors 
committee  to  encourlage  economy,  II, 
606;  signs  Constitution,  II.  664; 
writes  to  his  son  T>n  work  of  Con- 
vention, III,  49;  diary  of,  during 
Convention,  III,  552;  letter  from 
Ingersoll  to.  III,  f8. 

Jones,  John  Paul,  letter  of  Franklin   to 

III,  61. 

Jones,  Joseph,  writes  to  Madison  on  re- 
ported division  in  Virginia  delega- 
tion, III,  80. 

Jones,  Willie,  appointed  delegate  from 
North  Carolina,  III,  (559)  567. 

Jordan,  Thomas,  letter  of  rranldin  to, 
III,  21. 

Journal  of  Convention,  described  and 
criticized,  I,  xi,  32;  text  of,  I,  passim^ 

II,  passim;  deposited  with  the  presi- 
dent, II,  648,  III,  82,  370;  printing 
of  (see  also  J.  Q.  Adams),  I,  xii.  III, 
425. 

Judiciary  (see  Index  by  Clauses,  Art.  I, 
Sect.  3,  Clause  6;  Sect.  7,  Clause  2; 
Sect.  8,  Clause  9:  Art  II,  Sect.  2, 
Clause  2;  Art.  Ill;  also  Laws  con- 
trary to  Constitution). 

Kent,  Moss,  letter  of  Morris  to,  III,  420. 
Kentucky,  I,  188,  (189),  406,  (414,  417), 

11,94. 
King,  Charles,  letter  of  Rufus  King  to, 

III,  4C9,  462. 

King,  Rufus,  delegate  from  Massachu- 
setts, attendance  at  Convention  of, 
III,  588;  character  sketch  of,  III,  87; 
elected  on  committees,  I,  538,  (542), 
558,  (^62),  II,  322,  (328),  366,  (37s), 
473,  (481),  547,  (5C3,  554);  objects 
to  rule  on  yeas  and  nays,  I,  10  fa-; 
vors  Virginia  plan,  I,  43,  322,  ;(327) 


V 


664 


GENERAL   INDEX 


KiDg.  Rufut  (Continued) 

favors  establishment  of  general  prin- 
ciples first,  I,  60;  favors  national 
government,  I,  (323,  328),  331;  op- 
poses associating  judiciary  in  veto, 

I,  98,  (105.  107.  109),  139;  ^*vors 
inferior  tribunals.  I,  125;  opposes 
limiting  monev  bills,  I,  234;  opposes 
ineligibility  of  members  of  congress 

to  office,  I,  376,  (379)»  387,  (392),  H, 
490,  492;  favors  proportional  rep- 
resenution  in  botn  houses,  I,  36^ 
51,  58, 59,  (19a,  196),  197, 204,  (207), 
215,  219,  359,  (36s),  37»,  481,  489. 
49a,  (499,  502,  505,  507),  541,  562, 
563,  566,  582,  586,  595,  597.  601,  II, 
3,  6,  12,  15,  19,  94,  aao.  350,  358, 
623;  favors  long  term  for  president 
and  the  new  plan  of  election,  I, 
72.  163,  (168),  II,  55,  59,  66,  68, 
loi,  102,  105,  51^  521,  522,  527: 
thinks  committee  of  detail  authorized 
to  use  discretionary  power,  II,  70; 
opposes  property  qualifications,  IL 
123;  opposes  annual  meetings  ot 
congress,  II,  198;  favors  power  of 
congress  over  elections,  II,  241; 
favors  trusting  congress  to  fix  quo- 
rum, II,  252,  253;  favors  a  law 
to  remove  seat  of  government,  1 1, 
261:  thinks  power  to  make  war 
might  be  understood  to  conduct  war, 

II,  3 19;  favors  committee  on  aasump- 
tion  of  state  debts,  II,  327,  328; 
remarks  on  treason,  II,  347, 348, 349; 
opposes  importation  of  slaves,  ll, 
220, 373, 416;  explains  clause  on  con- 
trol of  militia,  II,  385;  thinks  ques- 
tion on  restrictions  on  commerce 
ought  to  be  taken  immediately,  II, 
420;  favors  prohibition  on  states  in 
private  contracts.  II,  439;  moves  to 

frohibit  states  from  export  taxes, 
I,  442;  opposes  state  import  duties 
coming  into  national  treasury,  II, 
442;  moves  for  consent  of  state 
legislatures  to  places  purchased,  II, 
510;  thinks  council  for  president 
would  be  practically  the  same  as 
the  senate,  II,  539;  objects  to  two-  " 
thirds  vote  for  ratification  of  treaties, 
II,  540,  543,  547;.favors  popular  rati- 
fication of  Constitution  without  ap- 
probation of  congress,  I,  123,  (127, 
128),  II,  92,  469,  f75,  476,  561, 
C63 ;  opposes  suspension  of  president 
between  impeachment  and  trial,  II, 
61 2;  favors  appointment  of  treas- 
urer by  congress,  II,  614;  opposes 
power  to  incorporate,  II,  615,  616; 
opposes  annual  publication  of  expen- 
ditures, II,  618;  favors  pardon  for 
treason,  II  626;  objects  to  inserting 
trial  by  jury  because  of  different 


practice  in  states,  II,  628;  favors 
ratio  of  i:  30,000,  11,  6J4;  suggests 
journal  be  deposited  witn  president, 
II,  648;  signs  Constitution,  II,  664: 
writes  to  Wadsworth  on  opening  of 
Convention,  III,  26;  in  Massachu- 
setts convention:  explains  the  three- 
fifths  rule,  III,  255,  explains  numbers 
of  representatives,  261,  confirms 
Gerry ^s  statement  of  facts,  261, 
explains  apportionment  of  taxes, 
262,  explains  why  coi^resa  may  not 
change  place  of  holding  elections, 
267,  explains  inspection  laws,  268, 
and  discusses  Gerry's  objections,  268: 
writes  to  Pickering  on  admission  of 
new  states  and  slavery.  III,  399;  in 
Senate:  explains  election  of  presi- 
dent, III,  422,  explains  the  combi- 
nation of  president  and  senate  in 
making  treaties,  424,  explains  com- 
promise on  representation,  428: 
writes  to  Charles  ICing  on  election  of 

E resident,  III,  459,  462;  defends 
[amilton's  leaning  towards  mon- 
archy, III,  466;  comments  on  Pinck- 
ney  plan.  III,  481;  letter  of  Nathan 
Dane  to.  III,  48;  letters  of  Ham- 
ilton to.  III,  70,  75;  letter  of 
Pinckney  to.  III,  355;  letter  of 
Wadsworth  to.  III,  33; 
King's  notes  of  proceedings,  I,  xix,  56, 
70,  90,  106,  127,  142,  158,  171,  184, 
247,  263.  301,  329,  349,  366, 416, 442, 

458,  476,  50i,  536.  553,  597,  H,  12, 
206,  225,  242,  635, 
Knox,  Henry,  writes  to  Washington  on 
attendance  of  certain  delegates.  III, 
30;  letter  of  Washington  to,  III,  70. 

Lafayette,  letters  of  Washington  to.  III, 

,       34,  69,  270,  297. 

Land  claims  (see  Index  by  Qauses,  Art. 
IV,  Sect.  3). 

Landed  interest,  I,  135,  152,  402,  (411), 
II,  124. 

Landholder,  by  Oliver  Ellsworth,  ex- 
tracts from.  III,  137, 143,  271;  ^reply 
of  Gerry  to,  III,  239,  298;  reply  of 
Martin  to.  III,  275,  281,  286, 

Lanffdon,  John,  delegate  from  New 
Hampshire,  attendance  at  Conven- 
tion of,  III,  588;  character  sketch 
of,  III,  87,  232;  elected  on  commit- 
tees, II,  322,  {328),  366,  (375),  410, 
(418);  favors  reference  of  questions 
concerning  executive  to  committee 
of  detail,^  II,  115;  opposes  all  dis- 
qualifications, It,  X25;  favors  pre- 
venting seat  of  sovemment  being  in 
same  city  with  tiiat  of  state,  II,  127; 
opposes  payment  of  members  of  con- 
gress by  states,  II,  290;  favors  pro- 
hibition of  paper  money,  II,  310; 


GENERAL   INDEX 


66s 


Langdon,  John  (Continued) 

favors  extension  of  powers  of  con- 
gress and  restrictions  on  states,  II, 

317,  331, 359,  361, 374,  386, 391, 454, 
455*  480,  589,  625;  opposes  direct 
taxation  according  to  representa- 
tion until  census  be  taken,  II,  350; 
is  willing  to  reduce  representation 
of  New  Hampshire,  II,  358;  favors 
power  to  prohibit  importation  of 
slaves,  II,  372j,  416;  favors  joint 
ballot  in  election  of  president,  II, 
402;  wishes  to  leave  creditors  in 
statu  quo,  II,  413;  comments  on 
situation  of  Vermont,  II,  456;  favors 
increasing  number  of  representa- 
tives, II,  623;    signs  Constitution, 

11,664. 

Lansing,  John,  delegate  from  New  York, 
attendance  at  Convention  of.  III, 
c88;  character  sketch  of,  III,  90; 
favors  New  Jersey  plan,  I,  242,  246, 
249,  (257,  ^63,  267,  270,  334),  336, 
(344,  350),  445,,  (455);  does  not 
oppose  compromise  committee  on 
representation,  I,  (u  5),  519;  reports 
to  the  governor  of  New  York,  III, 
244;  in  New  York  Convention:  ex- 
plains the  compromise  on  repre- 
sentation, III,  J 3 5,  336,  337,  and 
comments  on  the  danger  to  state 
governments,  338;  writes  to  Yates 
and  Smith  concerning  a  controversy 
with  Hamilton,  III,  352. 

Large  states  vs,  small  states,  (see  Index 
by  Gauses,  Art.  I,  Sect.  2,  Gause 
3;  Sect.  3,  Gause  i;  Sect.  7, 
Clause  i;  Art.  II,  Sect,  i.  Clauses 
1-4),  I,  II,  254,  325,  337,  34^,  H, 
314,  464. 

La  Rochefoucauld,  letter  of  Franklin  to, 

III,  354- 
Laurens,  Henry,  appointed  delegate  from 
r         South  Carolina,  III^  55^. 
.'Laws  contrary  to  Constitution,  power  of 

*  courts  over,  I,  97,  109,  II,  27,  28, 

*  73,  76,  78, 93,  298,  299,  in,  241. 
Lee,  Arthur,  letter  of  Mason  to.  III,  24. 
Lee,  Henry,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III,  464. 
Lee,  Richard  Henry,  appointed  delegate 

from  Virginia,  III,  558. 
Lee,  Thomas   Sim.   appointed  delegate 

from  Marylana,  III,  cc8. 
Legislature,  danger  from,  II,  74,  300, 407, 

551.  ^       . 

Letter  to  congress  to  accompany  Consti- 
tution, II,  (582),  583,  666. 

Letters  of  Fabius  (see  Dickinson). 

LeVeillard,  letters  of  Franklin  to.  III,  270, 

297. 
Lewis,   Governor,   reports   conversation 

with  Hamilton,  in  defence  of  charges 

of  favoring  monarchy,  III,  409. 

Liberty  of  the  Press,  II,  334,  (341),  617. 


Library  Company,  Philadelphia,  offer  of, 
to  Convention,  I,  548. 

Light-houses,  II,  504,  625,  (633,  634). 

Lincoln,  Benjamin,  writes  to  Washington 
of  statements  in  Massachusetts  con- 
vention by  Gerry  and  Strong,  III, 
263. 

Literature  to  be  promoted,  II,  122,  (325). 

Livingston,  Edward,  letter  of  Madison  to, 

III,  463. 

Livingston,  Henry  W.,  letter  of  Morris 
to.  III,  401,  404. 

Livingston,  William,  delegate  from  New 
Jersey,  attendance  at  Convention  of, 
III,  588;  character  sketch  of,  III, 
90,  235,  496;  appointed  on  com- 
mittees, II,  322,  (328).  366,  (375), 
607;  presents  reports  of  committees, 

n,  35*,  (355),  396,  400;  signs  Con- 
stitution, II,  664;  reported  as  author 
of  New  Jersey  plan.  III,  354. 

Locke,  cited,  1, 437, 438,  (4A0, 442). 

Long,  Pierce,  appointed  delegate  from 
New  Hampshire,  III,  557. 

Louis  XIV  of  France,  II,  69. 

Lowrie,  Walter,  in  Senate  quotes  action 
of  Convention  on  importation  of 
slaves.  III,  438. 

Lydan  Confederacy,  I,  485,  (497,  504). 

McCIurg,  Tames,  delegate  from  Virginia, 
attendance  at  Convention  of.  III, 
589;  character  sketch  of.  III,  95; 
votes  for  single  executive,  I,  97; 
favors  negative  on  state  laws,  I,  168, 
III,  73:  proposes  good  behavior  as 
term  01  executive,  ll,  33;  wishes  to 
make  executive  independent  of  legis- 
lature, II,  36;  asks  whether  powers 
of  executive  should  not  be  specified 
before  committee  of  detail  appointed, 

II,  69;  writes  to  Madison  on  delega- 
tion from  Virginia,  III,  67,  and  on 
proceedings  of  Convention,  73. 

McHenry,  James,  delegate  from  Mary- 
lana, attendance  at  Convention  of, 

III,  589;  character  sketch  of.  Ill,  93; 
appointed  on  committee,  11,  322, 
(328):  proposes  unanimous  action 
of  Mairland  delegates  in  certain 
cases,  II,  190,  191;  opposes  restric- 
tions on  money  bills,  II,  191,  280; 
copies  Mercer's  list  of  delegates  fa- 
voring monarchy,  II,  192,  III,  320; 
doubts  ratification  by  conventions, 
II,  211,  ^76;  votes  for  one  year 
previous  inhabitancy  for  represen- 
tatives, II,  226;  favors  requisitions 
when  direct  taxation  is  necessarjr, 
II,  359;  thinks  embargo  included  in 
power  of  war,  II,  362;  favors  pro- 
nibition  of  bills  of  attainder  ana  ex 
post  facto  laws,  II,  375;  favors  re- 
strictions on  powers  over  commerce. 


666 


GENERAL   INDEX 


McHenry,  James  (Cantintud) 

II,  418,  420,  481;  favors  referring 
appointments  to  state  ^  executives, 
it,  420;  favors  prohibition  of  in- 
crease in  salary  of  judges,  II,  420; 
favors  power  to  improve  harbors,  II 
529,  625,  (633,  034);  moves  for 
power  to  president  to  convene  con- 
gress, II,  553;  opposes  two-thirds 
vote  to  over-rule  president's  veto, 

II,  587;  signs  Constitution,  II,  6^9, 
664;  records  anecdotes  of  Franldin, 
Martin  and  Jenifer,  III,  85;  reports 
to  Maryland  house  of  delegates,  III, 
144;  writes  to  John  Carroll  concem- 
ine  his  copy  of  Mercer's  list,  etc., 

III,  320,  323,  324. 

McHenry's  notes  of  proceedings,  I,  zz, 
14,  40,  60,  7C,  II,  175-^50  P^sim. 

Madison,  James,  delegate  from  Virginia, 
attendance  at  Convention  of,  III, 
589;  character  sketch  of,  III,  94, 
237;  appointed  on  committees,  1, 
558.  (SM),  II,  366,  (375),  473,  (481), 
547.  (553.  554);  cxplams  objects  of 
union,  I,  134,  (1^7);  favors  Vir- 
ginia plan  rather  than  New  Jersey 
plan,  I,  241,  246, 314,  (325, 329,  333), 
416;  thinks  general  government  in 
aanger  from   states,   I,   156,   (363, 

367),  463.  (471,  477,  479);  objecto 
to  popular  opinion  influencing  Con- 
vention, I,  215,  (220);  opposes  use 
of  force  against  a  state,  I,  54;  favors 
proportional  representation  in  both 
houses,  and  opposes  compromise,  I, 

36,  37,  (44),  49.  5»,  (S6.  57,  59),  134. 
(141.  143,  146),  151,  154,  (158),  206, 
(208),  214,  218,  (220.  222),  361.  364, 

(367,  407).  415,  417,  421,  (430), 
446,    (455),   457,    (458),    459,    47c, 

(478),  485,  (496.  504),  S15,  (519), 
527,  (535,  537),  543,  551,  554, 
(555),  562,  568,  584,  588,  601,  II,  5, 
8»  358,  J53;  favors  liberal  provisions 
in  election  of  members  of  congress, 
II,  122, 123, 203,  (208,  210),  217,  235, 
239,  240,  (243),  249,  2CO,  268,  270; 
favors  fixed  payment  of  congress  by 
national  government,  I,  (210),  215, 

373.  (378),  427,  n,.  250,  291;  fa- 
vors limited  ineligibility  of  members 
of  congress  to  office,  I,  380,  (383), 
386,  388.  (391,  392,  393),  429,  434; 
favors  annual  meetine  of  congress, 
II,  197,  198,  199,  (206);  favors  ex- 
tension of  powers  of  congress,  I,  53, 
(60),  II,  253,  306,  310,  324,  345,  361, 
363,  377,  451..  480,  615,  616,  (620); 
favors  negative  on  state  laws,  I, 
(162),  164,  168,  169,  (170),  171,  II, 
27,  390;  opposes  restriction  on 
money  bills,  I,  233,  527,  (535).  II, 
224,  233,  276,  280;  favors  regulation 


of  militia  by  general  government,  II, 
33*»  385,  386,  388;  favors  restric- 
tions on  states  in  commerce,  II,  440, 
441,  442,  625;  favors  inspection 
laws  of  states,  II,  588,  589;  favors 
single  executive,  chosen  by  people, 
and  criticizes  new  plan  of  election,  I, 
(63),  66,  70,  71,  72,  74,  97,  II,  34, 
35,  56,  63,  109,  114,  121,  402,  427, 

500,  51J,  514,^515,  526,  527,  S35; 
favors  impeachment  of  executive, 

I,  86,  {92),  II,  65,  C51,  612;  favors 
executive  veto  with  association  of 
judiciary,  I,  95,  99,  {1C34,  106,  107), 
108,  (109,  no,  131),  138,  (14^),  II, 
73,  74»  77,  298,  301,  586,  587;  favors 

rpular  ratification  of  Constitution, 
,  122,  (126),  II,  92,  (96^)  469, 475, 
476;  regards  clause  for  continuance 
of  congress  as  purely  formal,  II,  47; 
objects  to  ratio  of  i  to  40,000  as  a 
perpetual  rule,  II,  221;  favors  two- 
thirds  of  each  house  to  expel  a  mem- 
ber, II,  254;  favors  a  law  to  remove 
seat  of  government,  II,  261;  favors 
president  making  treaties,  II,  392, 

394,  (395),  540,  548;  favors  appoint- 
ment of  judges  by  executive  and 
senate,  I,  120,  (126,  128),  232,  (238), 

II,  42,  44,  80,  82;  favors  inferior 
courts,  1,  124,  125,  (128);  favors 
fixing  general  principles  of  juris- 
diction of  judiaary,  I,  223,  (232); 
favors  makmg  it  possible  to  increase 
salaries  of  judges,  II,  4c,  429,  430; 
opposes  power  to  make  bills  of 
credit  a  le^al  tender,  II,  309;  objects 
to  definition  of  treason,  II,  345, 
346,  347,  349;  objects  to  importa- 
tion of  slaves,  II,  415,  417;  lavors 
committing  clause  on  interstate 
recognition,  II,  448;  favors  admis- 
sion of  new  states  on  equal  terms, 
II,  454;  opposes  anything  in  Con- 
stitution on  land  claims,  II,  465; 
opposes  making  each  house  judge  of 

^  its  own  privileges,  II,  503;    moves 

Suorum  of  senate  consist  of  two- 
birds,  II,  540;  opposes  pardon  for 
treason,  II,  627;  opposes  requiring 
convention  for  amendment  on  appli- 
cation of  two-thirds  of  states,  II,  629; 
objects  to  special  provisos  in  Con- 
stitution, II,  630;  suggests  modifica- 
tions in  wordine  of  various  clauses 
I,   (202),   206,  II,  48,    197,   (206), 

23  a,  (a57).  459,  315,  316,  318,  405. 
417,  427,  130,  431,  489,  535,  550. 
558,  559,  608,  612,  618,  627;  signs 
Constitution,  II,  664;  writes  to  John 
Quincy  Adams  concerning  printing 
of  the  journal.  III,  423,  426,  434, 
435, 445;  writes  to  Austin  on  Gerry's 
part  in  Convention,  III,  518;  writes 


GENERAL   INDEX 


e£^ 


Madison,  James  (Continued) 

to  Cabell  on  power  to  regulate  com- 
merce, to  encourage  manufactures, 
and  criticizing  Yates's  notes,  III, 
477,  478;  writes  to  Chapman  on 
power  to  cut  canals,  III,  494;  writes 
to  Cogswell,  disclaiming  to  be  the 
writer  of  the  Constitution,  III,  553; 
writes  to  Coles  on  powers  of  senate, 
III,  J34;  writes  to  Cooper  on  term 
**  national,"  III,  474;  writes  to  Davis 
on  power  to  encourage  manufac- 
tures, III,  518;  writes  to  Duer  on 
the  Pinckney  plan.  III,  534;  writes 
to  Everett  on  Washington's  attitude 
toward  signing  the  Constitution,  III, 
476;  in  the  Federalist:  discusses 
some  of  the  difficulties  of  the  Con- 
vention, III,  243,  defines  its  powers, 
257,  and  describes  formation  of 
senate,  270;  writes  to  Gales  criticiz- 
ing Yates's  notes,  III,  446;  writes  to 
Grimke  on  the  Pinckney  plan,  III, 
531;  writes  to  Hay  on  the  compro- 
mise in  election  of  president,  ill, 
458;  writes  to  Hillhouse  on  the 
equality  in  senate,  III,  483;  in  House 
of  Representatives:  explains  power 
to  tax  slaves  imported.  III,  355,  ex- 
plains tenure  of  office,  356,  explains 
origin  of  money  bills,  356,  explains 
bill  of  rights,  357,  questions  power 
of  assummg  state  debts,  361,  recalls 
defeat  of  power  to  grant  charters 
of  incorporation,  362,  explains  lim- 
itation on  powers  of  general  gov- 
ernment, 366,  and  explains  treatv 
making  power,  372;  writes  to  Hurl- 
bert  on  powers  of  congress,  III,  482; 
writes  to  IngersoU  on  prohibition  of 
bills  of  credit.  III,  495;  writes  to 
Jackson  criticizing  Yates's  notes,  III, 
448;  writes  to  Jefferson  on  assem- 
bling of  Convention,  III,  20,  on  at- 
tendance at  Convention  and  secrecy 
of  proceedings,  34,  on  progress  of 
Convention,  60,  77,  on  the  work  of 
Convention,  131,  on  treaties  before 
house  of  representatives,  372,  on  the 
publication  of  his  own  debates,  381, 
on  Hamilton's  plan,  ±16,  and  ex- 
plaining one  phase  ot  election  of 
president,  460;  writes  to  Lee  on  the 
word  "consolidate"  in  the  Consti- 
tution, and  on  election  of  president, 
III,  464;  writes  to  Livingston  on 
power  to  incorporate  a  bank.  III, 
463;  writes  to  his  father  on  opening 
and  progress  of  Convention,  III,  27, 
65,  ^,  76;  writes  to  George  Mason, 
Jr.,  concerning  Mason's  services  in 
Convention,  III,  476;  writes  to 
Mazzei  explaining  his  acceptance  of 
the  Constitution,  III,  353;    writes 


to  Monroe  on  the  attempt  to  asso- 
ciate judiciary  in  veto  power.  III, 
424,  and  on  the  importation  of  slaves, 
439;  writes  to  Paulding  on  Frank- 
lin's part  in  Convention,  III,  500; 
writes  to  Pendleton  on  opening  of 
Convention,  III,  27,  on  work  of 
Convention,  98,  and  on  regulation 
of  commerce,  136;  writes  to  Ran- 
dolph on  public  debts  and  religious 
tests.  III,  297;  asks  Randolph  for 
copy  of  his  opening  speech,  III,  358; 
writes  to  Ritchie  on  publication  of 
his  notes  of  debates.  III,  447;  writes 
to  Rives  criticizing  Yates's  notes, 
III,  521;  writes  to  Roane  on  inter- 
pretation of  Constitution,  III,  435; 
writes  to  Robertson  criticizing  notes 
of  Yates  and  Martin,  III,  497; 
writes  to  Sedgwick  on  Livingston's 
part  in  Convention,  III,  496;  writes 
to  Short  on  purpose  of  Convention, 
III,  36,  and  on  ciefects  of  Confedera- 
tion, 136;  writes  to  Smith  on  publi- 
cation of  his  notes  of  debates,  III, 
475:  writes  to  Sparks  on  part  taken 
oy  Morris  in  Convention,  III,  498, 
and  on  the  Pinckney  plan,  502, 
C14;  writes  to  Stevenson:  on  term 
"national,"  III,  473,  and  on  "com- 
mon defence  and  general  welfare," 
483;  writes  to  Ten  on  his  position 
on  veto  power,  III,  494;  writes  to 
Trist  on  the  term  "national,"  III, 
516;  writes  to  Turberville  on  a 
second  convention.  III,  354;  writes 
to  Tyler  on  the  term  "national," 
III,  524;  writes  to  Van.Buren  on 
division  between  large  and  small 
states  in  Convention,  III,  477;  in 
Virginia  Convention:  remarks  on 
appropriation  of  money  requiring 
action  by  congress.  III,  311,  explains 
why  congress  does  not  control  place 
of  elections,  311,  explains  limitation 
on  adjournment,  312,  explains  pay- 
ment of  members  of  congress  by 
themselves,  313,  314,  explains  clause 
regarding  money  bills,  317,  explains 
power  over  militia,  318,  explains  con- 
trol over  elections,  319,  explains 
clause  on  importation  of  slaves,  324, 
explains  restrictions  on  powers  of 
congress,  325,  explains  publication 
of  proceedings  "from  time  to  time," 
326,  327,  explains  clause  on  payment 
of  debts  of  confederation,  327,  ex- 
plains restrictions  on  taxes  by  states, 
328,  explains  compromise  in  elec- 
tion of  president,  329,  331,  defends 
himself  against  an  imputation  of 
wishing  to  consolidate  the  govern- 
ment, 330,  and  explains  difficulties 
of  Convention  and  the  regulation 


668 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Madison,  James  (ConHnued) 

of  commerce,  335:  writes  to  Walsh 
on  importation  of  slaves,  III,  436, 
438;  writes  to  Washington  enclos- 
ing Pinckney's  Observations,  III, 
123,  and  on  Mason's  objections  to 
Constitution,  129,  168:  writes^  to 
Webster  on  formation  of  the  Virginia 
plan.  III,  409;  writes  to  Wood  on 
Ellsworth's  part  in  Convention,  III, 
538;  writes  to  on  compro- 
mise on  representation.  III,  538; 
elaborates  his  ideas  on  right  of  suf- 
frage, III,  4502^  records  some  eeneral 
remarks  on  Convention,  III,  455: 
prepares  an  elaborate  criticism  o{ 
Pinckney  plan.  III,  504;  records  his 
opinion  on  nullification.  III,  537; 
prepares  a  preface  to  his  debates, 
tn>  539;  letter  of  Carrineton  to, 
III,  98;  letter  of  Carroll  to.  III,  305; 
letter  of  Coxe  to.  III,  361;  letter  of 
Eppes  to,  III,  417;  letter  of  Gray- 
son to,  III,  26;  letter  of  Jones  to, 
III,  80;  letters  of  McQurg  to.  III, 
67,  73;  letter  of  Nicholas  to.  III, 
2q6;  letter  of  Charles  Pinckney  to, 
III,  355;  letter  of  Sparks  to.  III, 
482,  497;  letter  of  Washington  to^ 
III,  131;  letter  of  Williamson  to, 
III,  306. 

Madison's  Debates,  described  and  criti- 
cized, I,  xv;  text  of,  I  passim^  II 
passim;  loaned  to  Jefferson  and 
copied  by  Eppes,  I,  354,  III,  372, 
j8i,  416,  417,  421;  publication  of, 
III,  381.  447,  475;   preface  to.  III, 

539. 
Maine,  1, 462,  (470),  540,  II,  94, 463. 
Mansfield,  Lord,  II,  103. 
Manufacturing  interests,  I,  135,  II,  124, 

370- 
Manufactures,    promotion  of,    II,    322, 

il^S),  336,  (343),  360,  361,  441,  606, 
111,518. 
Marine,   department  and  secretary  of, 

»,  }}*  ^^i  ?3S,  336,  (341, 343),  367. 

Marlboro,  duke  of,  II,  541. 

Martin,  Alexander,  delegate  from  North 
Carolina,  attendance  at  Convention 
of.  III,  589;  character  sketch  of.  III, 
55i  9^;  favors  modifying  ineligibility 
of  represenutives  to  omce,  1,  386: 
favors  increase  of  representation  ot 
North  Carolina,  I,  508;  favors  pre- 
venting seat  of  government  being  in 
same  city  as  that  of  state,  II,  127: 
writes  to  Caswell  on  progress  of 
Convention,  III,  64,  72;  letter  of 
Caswell  to.  III,  17. 

Martin,  Luther,  delegate  from  Maryland, 
attendance  at  Convention  of,  III, 
274,  276,  589;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  93,  237,  324;   elected  on  com- 


mittees, I,  509,  (516,  520),  II,  (12), 
3j^>  (375)9  fftvors  equal  representa- 
tion 01  states  and  opposes  com- 
promise on  representation,  I,  221, 
H^,  3i4»  (3*9),  340,  (347.  349,  350, 
358,  437,  (438,  44*),  444,  (453,  457. 
459),    468,    490,    499,    510,    5", 

(S^7f  5*7),  535,  543,  54^,  5^0,  H,  *, 
4,  94,  19a  191, 292;  opposes  oath  to 

support  Constitutioxi,  I,  (194),  203; 
favors  ratification  of  Constitution  by 
state  legislatures,  I,  341,  IL  190, 
476,  478;  moves  that  laws  of  United 
states  and  treaties  shall  be  supreme 
laws  of  states,  II,  27,  28;  opposes 
eligibility  of  executive  to  reelection, 
II,  32,  40,  52,  58,  61,  loi,  102; 
favors  appointment  of  jud^  by 
senate,  II,  41;  opposes  infenor  tri- 
bunals, II,  45;  opposes  association 
of  judges  in  veto,  ll,  76;  favors  dis- 
qualifications of  members  of  con- 
gress, II,  I2C;  joins  in  conference 
of  Maryland  delegates,  II,  190; 
opposes  plan  of  Convention,  II, 
190;  copies  Mercer's  list  of  dele- 
gates favoring  monarchy,  II,  192; 
asks  for  distinction  between  duties 
and  imposts  in  powers  of  congress, 

II,  3^5!  fAvors  federal  intervention 
only  on  application  of  legislature, 
11^  317,  467;  opposes  power  over 
militia,  II,  330, 387;  moves  to  amend 
clause  on  treason,  II,  349;  favors 
requisitions  when  direct  taxation  is 
necessary,)  II,  359;  proposes  tax  on 
importation  of  slaves,  fl,  364;  pro- 
poses restriction  on  powers  ov«r 
commerce,  II,  378,  417,  449;  favors 
referring  appointments  to  offices  to 
state  executives,  II,  420;  moves  an 
amendment  to  power  of  pardon,  IL 
426:  favors  government  control  ot 
iana  claims  and  easy  admission  of 
new  states,  II,  45^  455,  462,  463, 
464,  466;  does  not  sign  Constitution. 

III,  273;  report  ot,  to  Maryland 
house  of  delegates  on  proceedings  of 
Convention,  III,  151;  Genuine  In- 
formation of,  to  Maryland  legisla- 
ture, III,  172;  defends  Gerry  against 
charge  of  tne  Landholder  concerning 
redemption  of  continental  money, 
III,  259;  replies  to  Landholder  upon 
his  attendance  and  actions  in  Con- 
vention, III,  276,  281,  286;  writes 
to  speaker  of  Maryland  house  of 
delegates  defending  his  statement  of 
withdrawal  of  New  York  delegates 
from  Convention,  III,  269;  writes 
to  Citizens  of  Maryland  enumerating 
faults  of  Constitution,  III,  295;  in 
trial  of  Chase  before  senate,  explains 
impeachment.  III,  406. 


GENERAL   INDEX 


669 


Maryland,  (see  also  States),  delegates  in 
Convention   from,   I,   7,    (10).   76, 

(79),  49i»  557,  (559),  ",  176,  (i77), 

190,  470,  609,  ni,  558,  587-589; 

credentials  of  delegates  from,  I,  76, 
III,  586;  government  of,  I,  27,  56, 
218,  317,  {327),  394,  471,  514,  II, 
*I7,  *37,  *8o,  291,  475;  commerce 
and  trade  of,  II,  (191),  211,  308, 
362,  449,  586;  slavery  in,  II,  221, 
370,  371:  in  Revolution,  I,  441;  in 
the  Confederation,  I,  251,  316,  (326, 
330),  437,  (439);  probable  reception 
of  Constitution  m,  II,  212,  475, 
476,  562. 

Maryland,  House  of  Delegates,  reports  of 
McHenry  and  Martin  to,  III,  144, 
151,  172. 

Mason,  George,  delegate  from  Virginia, 
attendance  at  Convention  of.  III, 
589;  character  sketch  of.  III,  94, 
A.76;  elected  on  committees,  I,  509, 
(516,  520),  II,  (12),  322,  (328),  410, 
(418),  607;  objects  to  rule  on  yeas 
and  nays  in  Convention,  1, 10;  favors 
government  operating  on  indivi- 
duals, I,  34;  opposes  amending  con- 
federation, I,  338,  (146,  349,  351); 
favors  principles  embodied  m  com- 
promise  on   representation,    I,   48, 


?4;  favors  limitation  of  monev  bills, 
,  542,  II,  224,  233,  234,  (243),  273, 
280,  297,  357;   opposes  payment  of 


ui^ibihty  ot  members  ot  congress 
office,  I,  (376),  380,  387,  389,  (390, 
39*)»  394,  II,  284,  491;  favors  quali- 
fications in  election  of  members  of 
congress,  I,  375,  (379),  A28,  (433), 

II,  121, 122, 201, 203,  (207),  216, 218, 
(225),  235,  (243),  271;  favors  a  strong 
executive,  but  objects  to  new  plan 
of   election,    I,    68,    69,    (71),    97, 

III,  II,  31,  35,  65,  112,  118,  121, 
JOG,  512,  514,  515,  527,  537;  favors 
impeachment,  I,  86,  II,  65,  550;  fa- 
vors limited  veto,  and  association  of 
judges  in,  I,  loi,  (106,  107),  iii,  139, 
(144,  146),  II,  74,  78,  586,  587;  op- 
poses restrictions  on  states,  I,  168,  II, 
390,  4^0,  441,  588,  607,  625;  favors 
admission  of  states  on  equal  terms, 
I,  534,  II,  ^54;  opposes  appointment 
of  judges  by  executive,  II,  41,  82; 
favors  inferior  courts,  II,  46;  favors 
guarantee  to  states,  II,  47;  favors 
ratification  of  Constitution  by  peo- 
ple, II,  88,  (96),  477, 479;  thinks  that 
seat  of  government  ought  not  to  be 


in  same  city  as  that  of  state,  II,  127, 
(128);  objects  to  each  house  having 
negative  on  other  in  all  cases,  IL 
19^,  197;  remarks  on  treaties  and 
laws,  II,  197:  favors  annual  meeting 
of  congress,  II,  199,  (206);  objects  to 
small  number  for  quorum,  II,  251; 
favors  requiring  two  thirds  of  each 
house  to  expel  a  member,  II,  254; 
favors  calling  for  yeas  and  navs  by 
one  fifth  of  house,  II,  255;  favors 
publication  of  all  proceedings  of 
house,  II,  260,  613,  618;  uivors 
prohibition  of  export  tax,  II,  305, 
362,  363;  opposes  prohibiting  paper 
money  altogether,  II,  309,  310; 
favors  appointment  of  treasurer  by 
congress,  II,  315;  favors  power  of 
war  in  congress,  II,  319;  favors 
preventing    perpetual    revenue,    II, 


606;  comments  on  slave  trade, 
II,  370,  415,  416,  417;  opposes  obli- 
gation to  discharge  debts  of  con- 
federation, II,  412;  favors  prohibi- 
tion of  increasing  salary  of  judges, 
II,  429;  favors  two-thirds  vote  on 
navigation  acts,  II,  451,  631,  (634); 
proposes  council  of  state  for  presi- 
dent, II,  541 ;  favors  a  bill  of  rights, 
II,  588;  moves  for  a  committee  to 
encourage  economy,  II,  606;  favors 
limiting  power  of  incorporation  to 
canals,  II,  616;  favors  ex  post  facto 
laws,  II,  617;  favors  exceptine  trea- 
son from  power  of  pardon,  II,  626, 
627;  opposes  combining  senate  with 
president  in  power  of  pardon,  II, 
027;  opposes  method  of  amend- 
ing Constitution,  I,  202,  II,  629; 
favors  a  second  general  convention, 
II,  564,  632;  suggests  modifica- 
tions in  wording  of  various  clauses, 

11,  315,  345,  347,  349,  4^7,  ^88,  618; 
refuses  to  sign  Constitution,  II, 
649;  objections  of,  to  Constitution, 
II,  631,  632,  III,  128,  129,  136, 
296;  writes  to  Lee  on  expectations 
from  Convention,  III,  24;  writes 
to  his  son  describing  opening  of 
Convention,  and  its  problems.  III, 
22,  28,  32;  writes  to  Beverley  Ran- 
dolph on  progress  of  Convention,  III, 
^o;  writes  to  Washington,  enclos- 
mg  his  objections.  III,  102;  writes 
to  Jefferson  explaining  his  refusal  to 
sign.  III,  304;  in  Virginia  conven- 
tion: objects  to  publication  of  pro- 
ceedings from  time  to  time.  III,  326^ 
objects  to  judicial  power  as  destruc- 
tive of  sute  rights,  330^  exempts 
Madison  from  charge  of  consolida- 


I 


670 


GENERAL   INDEX 


MABon,  George  (Continued) 

ting  government,  330,  and  objects  to 
navigation  acts  requiring  two-thirds 
vote,  334;  relates  to  Jefferson  cer- 
tain incidents  in  Convention,  III, 
367;  letter  of  Madison  to,  III,  476. 

Mason,  George,  Jr.,  letters  of  George 
Mason  to,  III,  22,  28,  32. 

Mason's  notes  of  proceedings,  described 
and  criticized,  I,  zxii;  text  of,  I,  no, 
160,  435,  II,  137,  43a.  636. 

Massachusetts  (see  also  States),  dele- 
gates from  in  Convention,  I,  i,  (3), 
7,  (10,  13),  16,  (17),  491,  III,  557, 
c88,  590;  credentials  of  delegates 
from,  I,  7,  43,  177,  (182,  185),  189, 
III,  584;  number  of  representatives 
in  first  house  from,  I,  557,  (5S9)» 
563,  (s66),  572,  601,  II,  (12),  13, 
(633),  635;  proposed  number  of 
electors  of  executive  for,  II,  58,  (60, 
63);  constitution  and  government 
of,  I,  27.  48,  68,  123,  132,  155.  285, 
405,  ao6,  (414,  417).  470,  (47S)» 
587.  II,  30,  41,  44,  81,  90,  196.  285, 
476,  552,  647,  III,  312;  Shays's  re- 
bellion in,  I,  18,  263,^18,  II.  317, 
332,  626;  in  the  Confederation,  I, 
165,  316,  (J26,  J30),  348,  437,  463, 
587;  aboliuon  of  slavery  in,  II,  371; 
conditions  in,  1, 447*  (456)>  4^2, 
(470),  540,  II.  4.  7,  »68,  481. 

Massachusetts  Convention,  remarks  by 
King  in,  III,  25c,  261,  262,  267, 
268,  remarks  by  Strong  in,  III,  247, 
248,  260,  262. 

Mazzei,  Philip,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III, 

353- 
Mecom,  Mrs.  Jane,  letter  of  Franklin  to, 

III,  98. 
Mercer,  John  Francis,  delegate  from 
Maryland,  attendance  at  Conven- 
tion of.  III,  589;  joins  in  conference 
of  Maryland  delegates,  II,  190,  209, 
212;  opposes  election  of  representa- 
tives by  people,  II,  205,  216;  op- 
poses limitation  of  money  bills, 
II,  224,  297;  considers  plan  of 
Convention  weak,  II,  212,  (215); 
opposes  too  strict  residence  quali- 
fications for  members  of  congress, 
II,  217,  218,  226,  270.  272;  favors 
quorum  of  less  than  majority,  II, 
251,  252,  253;  opposes  powers  other 
than  legislative  to  be  given  to  sen- 
ate, II,  2S9;  thinks  two  houses  will 
not  agree  on  seat  of  government,  II, 
262;  opposes  ineligibility  of  mem- 
bers of  congress  to  office,  II,  284, 
288;  favors  association  of  judiciary 
in  veto  power,  II,  298;  opposes 
power  to  tax  exports,  II,  307; 
favors  adding  post  roads  to  powers 
of  congress,  II,  308;    favors  paper 


money,  II,  309;  favors  appoint- 
ment of  treasurer  by  executive,  II, 
J 15;  favors  power  to  define  felon- 
ies, II,  316;  favors  consent  of  legis- 
lature to  government  intervening  in 
state,  II,  317;  prepares  a  list  of 
members  favoring  monarchy,  II,  191; 
explains  list  of  names  reported  to 
favor  monarchy.  III,  320. 

Messen^r,  appointment  of,  1, 2,  (6). 

Methodists  would  oppose  Constitution 
on  account  of  slavery,  II,  374. 

Middle  states,  I,  573,  II,  221, 449,  III,  23. 

Mifflin,  Thomas,  delegate  from  Pennsyl- 
vania, attendance  at  Convention  of, 
III,  589;    character  sketch  of.  III, 

91,  236;  seconds  motion  that  mem- 
bers of  congress  accepting  office 
shall  vacate  their  seats.  II,  284; 
signs  Constitution,  II,  664. 

Military  to  be  subordinate  to  civil  power, 

n,  334,  (34O. 

Mississippi  river,  I,  585,  604,  II,  442,  548. 

Monarchy,  I,  86,  (90,  92),  152,  288,  290, 

(300),  425,  II,  192,  278,  333, 632,  III, 

74,  80,  169,  179,  319,  3S4,  39S,  397- 

Monroe,  James,  writes  to  Jefferson,  on 
proceedings  in  Convention,  III,  65; 
letter  of  Gerry  to,  III,  45;  letters  of 
Madison  to,  III,  424,  439;  letter  of 
Grayson  to.  III,  30. 

Montesquieu,  I,  71,  308,  391,  485,  (497), 
580,11.34,530. 

Montmorin,  reports  of  Otto  to.  III,  15, 
39.61. 

Morris,  Gouverneur,  delegate  from  Penn- 
sylvania, attendance  at  Convention 
of.  III,  589;  character  sketch  of,  III, 

92,  2^6,  498;  elected  on  commit- 
tees, I,  538,  (5x2),  558,  (562),  II, 
473,  (481),  547,  (553,  55|);  presents 
letter  from  Rhode  Island,  I,  9,  (13); 
opposes  voting  in  Convention  by 
states,  I,  II;  opposes  committee  to 
superintend  minutes,  I,  17;  moves 
to  postpone  first  Randolph  Res- 
olution. I,  (30),  33,  (j8);  explains 
distinction  between  "federal'*  and 
'* national,  supreme"  government,  I, 
34>  (43);  favors  proportional  repre- 
sentation and  opposes  some  fea- 
tures of  compromise,  I,  31,  (36),  37, 

H8»  (isO,  5",  (517).  529,  533. 
(536.  537),  540,  551,- (554,  556),  5S7. 
(559).  s6o,  561,  567,  571,  581,  583, 
588,  591,  592,  593,  601,  603,  II,  25. 
94,  106;  favors  non-payment  of 
senators.  I,  513,  (518);  opposes 
ineligibility  of  members  of  congress 
to  office,  I,  513,  (518),  II.  286.  289, 
490;  opposes  restriction  of  money 
bills.  I,  545,  545,  II.  224,  234,  276. 
297»  509;  favors  property  qualifica- 
tion and  other  limitations  in  elec- 


GENERAL   INDEX 


671 


Morris,  Gouveraeur  (Continued) 

tion  of  members  of  congress,  I,  545, 
II,  69,  121,  122,  124,  126,  201,  202, 
(206,  207,  209),  216,  217.  (225),  23s, 

237,  ^39,  Hh  .(H*,  ?43),  *50»  ^TO, 
271;  opposes  distinguishing  between 

powers   of   general   legislature   and 

those  of  the  sUtes,  II,  26;  opposes 

requisitions,  II,  26;  favors  additional 

powers  in  congress^  II,  (26),  306,  307, 

3 IS,  317,  345,  300,  450,  4891  5*9. 
626,  627;  opposes  negative  on  state 

laws,  II,  27,  28,  391;  favors  choice 
of  executive  by  people  and  the  new 
plan  of  election,  II,  29,  30,  32,  33, 
35,  5*,  59,  69.  103,  106,  112,  113, 
120,  403,  (407),  427,  500,  SOI,  502, 
512,  522,  52J,  527,  (530),  J35,  537; 
favors  appointment  of  officers  bv 
executive  with  consent  of  senate,  II, 
*  41,  4A,  82,  389,  539;  opposes,  but 
later  favors  impeachment  with  trial 
by  senate,  II,  42, 64, 65, 68, 103, 427, 
^50,  551,  552:  favors  possibility  of 
mcreasing  salaries  of  judges,  II, 
44,  45,  4*9,  430;  favors  inferior 
courts,  II,  46;  opposes  provision  for 
completion  of  engagements  of  con- 
gress, II,  46;  opposes  guarantee  to 
states,  II,  4j;  lavors  absolute  veto 
and  association  of  judges,  II,  75)  78, 
^00,  209,  585,  586;  favors  ratifica- 
tion of  Constitution  by  people,  II, 
92,  93,  468,  475.  ^78,  479; ,  thinks 
Philadelphia  and  New  York  have 
expectations  of  becoming  seat  of 
government,  II,  127;  favors  ratifi- 
cation of  treaties  by  law,  II  197, 
392,  540,  548;  moves  to  substitute 
May  for  December  as  time  of  meet- 
ing of  Congress,  II,  198,  199,  (206); 
protests  against  slavery,  II,  221,  374, 
415,  417;  favors  fixing  number  for 
quorum,  II,  252;  favors  permitting 
a  maiority  of  each  house  to  expel  a 
member,  II,  254;  opposes  permitting 
any  senator  to  enter  his  dissent,  11, 
255;  favors  individual  calling  for  the 
yeas  and  nays,  II,  255;  comments 
on  distrust  of  general  government, 
II,  261;  opposes  alteration  in  powers 
regarding  adjournment  of  congress, 
II,  261;  favors  payment  of  members 
of  congress  out  of  national  treasury, 
II,  290;  opposes  power  of  congress 
to  emit  bills  of  credit,  II,  308,  309; 
proposes  council  of  state,  II,  342, 
542;  opposes  sumptuary  laws,  II, 
344,  (351)!  criticizes  ciefinition  of 
treason,  II,  345,  346,  347,  349;  fa- 
vors adjustment  of  state  accounts 
with  United  States,  II,  357;  thinks 
prohibition  of  ex  post  tacto  laws  un- 
necessary, but  prohibition  of  bills 


of  attainder  essential,  II,  376,  (378); 
opposes  referring  appointments  to 
states,  II,  406;  favors  obligation  of 
new  government  to  discharge  debts, 
II,  414;  opposes  power  of  president 
to  correspond  with  executives  of 
states,  II,  A 19;  opposes  subjecting 
judges  to  arbriury  removal,  II,  428; 
favors  provision  on  suspension  of 
writ  of  habeas  corpus,  II,  438; 
opposes  prohibition  on  states  in 
private  contracts,  II,  ^39;  opposes 
prohibition  on  states  with  regard  to 
embargoes,  II,  441;  favors  state 
import  duties  coming  into  the 
national  treasury,  II,  442;  favors 
proposal  of  interstate  recognition 
being  committed,  II,  448^  favors 
indefinite  clause  for  adnussion  of 
new  states,  II,  454,  455;  favors  pro- 
hibition of  religious  test,  II,  <^; 
favors  easy  amendment  of  constitu- 
tion, II,  468,  629;  favors  each  house 
being  judge  of  its  own  privileges, 
II,  502;  favors  consent  of  the  legis- 
lature to  places  purchased,  II,  510; 
opposes  two-thirds  of  senate  being 
a  quorum,  II,  549;  favors  inspec- 
tion laws  of.  states,  II,  589,  625; 
opposes  appointment  of  treasurer  by 
congress,  II,  614;    opposes  annual 

fublication  of  public  expenditures, 
I,  618;  moves  that  no  state  be  de- 
f rived  of  equal  suffrage  in  senate, 
I,  631;  favors  modification  in,  and 
explains  wording  of  various  clauses, 

II,  196,  232,  235,  316,  377,  3^,  405, 
417, 430, 43 1, 463, 466, 480, 488, 607, 
608,  014, 617^  prepares  form  of  sign- 
ing Constitution,  II,  643 ;  signs  Con- 
stitution, II,  645,  664;  anecdote  of 
Washington  and,  III,  85;  work  of,  on 
committee  of  style,  III,  170;  in  an 
oration  upon  Washington,  describes 
his  influence  in  Convention,  III,  381; 
in  the  Senate:  refers  to  dissensions  in 
Convention,  III,  390,  391;  writes  to 
New  York  senate  on  election  of  pres- 
ident, III,  393;  writes  to  Livingston 
on  acquisition  of  new  territory.  III, 
401,  404;  writes  to  Lewis  Mor- 
ris on  compromises  in  representation 
and  election  of  president,  III^  40^; 
writes  to  Walsh  on  difficulties  in 
Convention,  III,  418;  writes  to 
Pickering  on  taking  of  notes  in  Con- 
vention by  different  members.  III, 
419;  writes  to  Moss  Kent  on  amend- 
ments, III,  420;  writes  to  Wells 
explaining  why  he  supported  the 
Constitution,  III,  421. 

Morris,  Lewis  R.,  letter  of  G.  Morris  to 

III,  4CU. 

Morris,    Robert,    delegate   from    Penn- 


672 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Morris,  Robert  {Continuid) 

sylvanU,  attendance  at  ConTention 
of,  III,  589;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  91,  236;  nominates  Washington 
as  president  of  Convention,  I,  (2),  3, 
(5);  escorts  Washington  to  the  chair, 
i*  (2)*  3;  objects  to  voting  in  Con- 
vention by  states.  I,  11;  seconds 
motion  for  good  behavior  as  term 
of  senators,  I,  409;  is  of  foreign 
birtk  II,  269;  contract  between, 
and  French  farmers  general  on  taxa- 
tion of  tobacco,  II,  306;  signs  Con- 
stitution, II,  664;  writes  to  hu  sons 
on  purpose  of  C6nvention,  III,  49; 
writes  to  a  friend  that  the  Constitu- 
tion is  the  work  of  plain,  honest  men, 
III,  242. 


\h 


National,  I,  (10),  33,  34,  (19,  42),  (323), 

1,  (334).  335.  (344).  395»  (4<H). 

il.474,S»6, 5*9.      .       ,    .       , 
Navigation    acts,    (see    also    Index    by 

Clauses,  Art.  I,  Sect.  9,  Clause  i), 

II,  143,  183,  (191),  211,  336,  (343. 

366),  374,  (396),  400,  (446),  449. 563. 

.,    ,^31,  {634),  639. 

Neckar,  I,  288,  (308),  321. 

Negative  on  state  laws,  (see  also  Index 

by  Qauses,  Art.  VI,  Qause  2),  I, 

(131,  140),  150,  250,  318.  337,  (345, 

351),  438,  447.  n,  440.  589.  HI,  24, 

56165*73.  112* 
Neilson,  John,  appointed  delegate  from 

Newjersey,  III,  (557).  561. 

Nelson,  Thomas,  appointed  delegate  from 
Virginia,  III,  5C8. 

Netherlands,  1, 89,  (90, 92, 102),  103, 112, 
254,  (261,  266,  272,  317),  319,  3*7. 
(330).  343.  (348,  350).  449,  454* 
(456),  457.  (458).  469,  (475),  476, 
(478),  553.  11,  9,  31,  67,  202,  371. 

541- 
New  England,  (see  also  Eastern  states, 

Northern  sutes),  I,  214,  II,  198, 332, 

449- 
Newenham,  Sir  Edward,  letter  of  Wash- 

ineton  to,  III.  339. 

New  Hampshire,  (see  also  States);  dele- 
gates from  in  Convention,  I,  (480), 
481,  (494),  II.  84,  (87).  Ill,  557. 
572,  588:  credentials  of  delegates 
from,  III,  571;  number  of  repre- 
sentatives from  in  first  house,  I,  557. 
(55?),  563.  (566),  573,  587,  601,  II, 
(12),  13;  proposed  number  of  elec- 
tors of  executive  for,  II,  58,  (60,  63); 
government  in,  II,  57,  402;  trade  of, 
II,  306,  181. 

New  Jersey,  (see  also  States);  delegates 
from,  in  Convention.  I,  i,  (3,  5),  55, 
115,(1 19),  242, 353,  (354).  5*8,  (537). 
II,  (398),  404-  III,  557,  587-589; 
credentials  of  delegates  from,  I,  189, 


III,  563;  number  of  representatives 
in  first  house  from,  I,  557,  (559), 
563.  (566),  573.  n,  (12),  13;  pro- 
posed  number  of  electors  of  executive 
for,  II,  ^8,  (60,  63);  in  Revolution, 

I,  441;  m  confederation,  I,  251,  315, 
316,  (326,  330),  437;  commerce  and 
trade  of,  1, 197,  (207),  286, 462,  (470^ 
479),  II,  }o6,  307,  362,  45*.  481; 
conditions  m,  1, 177, 462,  530,  (537), 

II,  221. 

New  Jersey  PlaiL  presented  to  Conven- 
tion and  refenred  to  committee  of 
whole,  I,  (241),  242,  (246),  2^7;  tcit 
of,  criticized.  Ill,  611;  considered  in 
committee  of  whole,  I,  248-333; 
rejected,  I,  (313),  322,  (327);  re- 
ferred  to  committee  of  detail,  II, 
98,  (106^  128),  157. 

New  states  in  the  west,  (see  also  Index  bv 
Qauses,  Art.  IV,  Sect.  3,  and  Ad- 
mission of  States,  Kentucky,  Ver- 
mont), I,  166.  172,  (173),  37a,  373. 
446,  (457,  459),  533.  (536),  541.  5^ 
(562),  5^,  570.  571,  578,  58CL  C82, 
583,  584,  (599).  603.  «H.  n,  (I),  2. 
94,  217, 462. 

New  York,  (see  also  Sutes);  delegates 
from,  in  Convention,  I,  i,  (3,  0, 
76,  (79).  242,  444,  (450),  II,  18,  III, 
557,  588,  590;  credentuk  of  dele- 
gates from,  I,  249, 283,  295,  III,  579; 
report  of  delegates  from,  to  the 
governor.  III,  244;  number  of  repre- 
sentatives  in   first  house   from,   I, 

557,  (559).  563.  (5^,  573.  587.  n. 
(12),  13;  proposed  number  of  elec- 
tors of  executive  for,  II,  58,  (60, 63); 
constitution  and  government  of,  I, 
27,  52,  68,  299,  366,  466,  473,  II,  29, 
30,  139,  216,  217,  201,  585,  586;  in 
the  confederation,  I,  295,  II,  7,  92, 
562,  III,  14;  trade  and  commerce 
of,  II,  90,  306,  J62,  449,  481;  condi- 
tions in,  1, 530,  (537),  II,  221, 329;  ex- 
pects to  become  seat  of  government, 
II,  127,  261. 

New  York  Convention,  speeches  in:  by 
Hamilton,  III,  332,  336,  337,  3^8, 
by  Lansing,  335,  336,  337,  338,  by 
Smith,  238. 

New  York  Senate,  letter  of  Morris  to 
president  of.  III,  393. 

Nicholas,  Georve,  writes  to  Madison  con- 
cerning Nfason's  attitude  on  Con- 
stitution, III,  296. 


Norfolk,  II,  |I7,  (420). 
North  Carolma, 


(see  also  States),  dele- 
sates   from,   in    Convention,    I,    i, 

(3. 5).  334.  (335),  491.  in,  4^  52. 

68.  83,  559,,  568,  587.  589,  5W 
credentials  of  delegates  from.  III, 
C67;  number  of  representatives  in 
first    house    from,    I,    557,    (559), 


n 


GENERAL   INDEX 


673 


North  Carolina  {Continued) 

563,  (566),  568,  573,  601,  II,  (12), 
13,  623,  III,  83;  proposed  number 
of  electors  of  executive  for,  II,  58, 
(60,  63);  constitution  and  govern- 
ment of,  II,  287,  376;  trade  and 
commerce  of,  I,  286,  510,  II,  306, 
j6o,  449,  481;  slavery  in,  I,  593, 
n»  37O1  373;  conditions  in,  I,  604, 
II,  462,  463. 

North  Carolina  convention,  speeches  in: 

by  Davie,  III,  340,  342,  343,  345, 

346,  347.  349.  by  Spaight,  342,  343, 

^^     345,346,349,351.    ^       ^ 
Northern  States  vs.  Southern  States,  (see 

also  Index  by  Clauses,  Art.  I,  Sect.  2, 

Qause  3;   Sect.  9,  Clauses  i  and  c), 

I,  421,  476,  486,  510,  (516),  567,  II, 
100,  III. 

Nova  Scotia,  II,  360. 

Nullification,  Madison's  opinion  on,  III, 

537. 

Objections  to  the  Constitution  (see  Gerry, 

Mason,  Randolph). 
Ordinance  of  1784, 1,  541. 
Ordinance  of  1787,  II,  148, 439. 
Osnaburgh,  Bishop  of,  rumor  concerning, 

II,  333,  ^ni,  74.. 

Otto,  charge  d'affaires,  reports  of,  to 
Montmorin,  III,  15,  39, 61. 

Paper  money,  (see  also  Index  by  Gauses. 
Art.  I,  Sect.  10,  Clause  i;  ana 
Powers  of  Congress),  I,   134,   137, 

(142,  143),  154,  155,  165,  317,  (327), 

II,  26,  52, 76,  252, 299,  309, 413. 
Parliament  of  Paris,  II,  274. 
Paterson  Resolutions   (see  New  Jersey 

Plan). 
Paterson,  William,  delegate  from  New 
Jersey,   attendance   at   Convention 
of.  III,  589;    character   sketch  of 

III,  90;  appointed  on  committees, 
I,  509,  (510,  520),  II,  (12);  presents 
and  defends  New  Jersey  plan,  I,  240, 
(241),  242,  (246),  250,  (258,  264. 
267),  274;  opposes  proportional 
representation,  I,  121,  (175),  176, 
177,  180,  (181,  182,  184),  185,  481, 
S3*,  551,  (554),  561;  favors  adjourn- 
ment of  Convention,  I,  240,  II,  18; 
favors  appointing  executive  by  elec- 
tors chosen  by  the  states,  II,  56; 
favors  ratification  of  Constitution  by 
state  legislatures,  II,  88;  signs  Con- 
stitution, II,  664;  letter  of  firearley 
to.  III,  73. 

Paterson's  notes  of  proceedings,  described 

and  criticized,  I,  xxi;  text  of,  I,  27, 

185,  207,  270,  443,  459,  479,  503. 

^     537,555,562,572,11,96.         ^ 

Paterson  Resolutions   (see  New  Jersey 

Plan). 


Paulding,  J.  K.,  letters  of  Madison  to, 
III,  501, 503. 

Payne,  John  C,  corrections  in  Madison 
manuscript  by,  I,  xix,  II,  640. 

Pendleton,  Edmund,  letters  of  Madison 
to,  III,  27, 98, 1 j6. 

Pendleton,  Nathaniel,  appdnted  dele- 
gate  from  Georgia,  III,  (559),  576. 

Pennsylvania,  (see  also  States),  delegates 
from,  in  Convention,  I,  i,  (3,  5),  7, 
(id),  II,  (14),  491,  II,  234,  III,  557, 
587-590;  credentials  of  delegates 
from,  III,  565;  number  of  represen- 
tatives in  first  house  from,  1,  557, 
(559),  563,  (566),  ^73,  II,  (12),  13; 
proposed  number  of  electors  of  execu- 
tive for,  II,  58,  (60, 6$)j  in  the  Con- 
federation, I,  316,  326,  (330),  437, 
11,  9;  government  of,  I,  99,  100, 
(107,  109),  339,  584,  II,  75,  288,  299; 
trade  and  commerce  of,  1, 447,  (456), 

II,  362;  conditions  in,  I,  407,  (414, 
417),  463,  (470),  587,  II,  221,  269, 
272, 

Pennsylvania  Convention,  speeches  by 
Wilson  in.  III,  137,  138,  143,  144, 
159,  160, 161, 163, 165. 

Pennsylvania  Herald,  extracts  from.  111, 
69,82. 

Pennsylvania  Journal,  extracts  from,  111, 

«     21, 73. 

Pennsylvania  Packet,  extracts  from,  111, 

«     60, 75. 

Pensioners  to  be  disqualified  from  con- 
gress, II,  (117),  I2C. 

Persia,  1,  323,  (328,  330). 

Persons  having  unsettled  accounts  with 
United  States  to  be  disqualified  from 
congress,  II,  (117),  121. 

Philadelphia,  (see  also  Convention),  II, 
127,  216. 

Phillips,  Tonas,  writes  to  Convention  in 
behalf  of  the  Jews,  III,  78. 

Phodans,  I,  307. 

Pickering,  John,  appointed  delegate  from 
New  Hampshire,  III,  (557),  573. 

Pickering,  Timothy,  writes  to  Hamilton 
concerning  his  proposals  in  Conven- 
tion, III,  397,  399;  writes  to  Jackson 
about  his  notes  of  the  Convention, 

III,  476;  letter  of  Hamilton  to.  III, 
J97;  letter  of  King  to.  III,  399; 
letter  of  Morris  to,  I II,  4 1 9. 

Pierce,  William,  delegate  from  Georgia, 
attendance  at  Convention  of.  III, 
589;  favors  election  of  house  by 
people  and  of  senate  by  states,  I, 
59,  137;  favors  three  vears  as  term 
of  senators,  I,  218,  (221);  thinks 
state  distinctions  must  be  sacri- 
ficed, I,  (467),  47^,  (479);  rule  of 
secrecy  broken  by,  III,  48;  challeLge 
to  Auldjo  by,  III,  64;  character 
sketches  of  delegates  by.  III,  87; 


674 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Pierce,  William  (Continued) 

records  anecdote  of  Washington  in 

Convention,  III,  86:    writes  to  St. 

George  Tucker  on  his  not  signing 

the  Constitution,  III,  lOO. 
Pierce's  notes  of  proceedings,  described 

and  criticized,  I,  xzi;  text  of,  I,  57, 

73,  91,  109.  "8»  147. 
Pinckney,  Charles,  delegate  from  South 

Carolina,  attendance  at  Convention 
of.  III,  589:  character  sketch  of,  III, 
96;  elected  on  committee,  I,  (2),  4; 
moves  for  a  committee  on  rules, 
I,  (2),  4;  moves  for  committee  to 
superintend  minutes,  I.  17;  presents 
plan  of  government  (see  Pinckney 
rlan);  asks  if  it  is  intended  to 
abolish  state  governments,  I,  (33), 
39,  (41);  wishes  powers  of  legisla- 
ture defined,  I,  53;  favors  propor- 
tional representation  in  both  houses 
with  election  by  state  legislatures, 

I,  Si,  59,  90,  "8,  ("4,  130),  132, 
(140.  142,  145),  147,  150,  155,  163, 
(169),  193,  (201,  210),  217,  (221), 
397,  (410),  S»o,  (5«6),  520,  542,  II, 
\;  favors  strong  executive  chosen 
by  national  legislature  and  objects 
to  new  plan  of  election,  I,  63,  64,  67, 

^,  (70),  79,  (88),  91,  93,  (96,  105). 

II,  30^  III,  ^3,  500,  501,  511,  526; 
favors  appomtment  of  judges  by 
national  legislature,  I,  116,  (121), 
224,  232,  (238),  II,  81;  opposes 
amendments  without  assent  ot  na- 
tional legislature,  I,  121;  favors  neg- 
ative on  state  laws,  I,  (131,  140), 

150,  (162),  164,  (169, 171, 173),  n, 

25,  390;  favors  council  for  president 
(see  also  Pinckney  Plan),  1, 139,  II, 
329,  ^42;  opposes  associating  judici- 
ary m  veto,  I,  139,  (144),  II,  298; 
opposes  limitation  of  money  bills,  I, 
*34,  54s..  n,  224,  261,  510;  thinks 
combmations  may  be  made  for 
honors,  I,  458;  favors  slaverv  and 
equal  representation  of  blacks,  I, 
5^2^  596,  II,  364.  371;  thinks  powers 
of  Convention  aaec^uate,  1, 25  c,  (261, 
272);  opposes  ineligibility  of  mem- 
bers of  congress  to  office,  II,  283, 
287,  290,  489,  491;  favors  inipeach- 
ment  of  executive,  II,  64,  66,  68; 
favors  property  qualifications,  II, 
121,  122;  opposes  disqualification 
of  public  debtors,  II,  126;  thinks  a 
large  town  is  proper  for  seat  of 
government,  II,  127;  moves  to  refer 
report  of  committee  of  deuil  to  com- 
mittee of  whole,  II,  196;  thinks  it 
sufficient  to  require  meeting  of  con- 
gress once  a  year,  II,  198;  favors 
mcrease  of  South  Carolina's  repre- 
sentation, II,  219;  considers  fisheries 


on  western  frontier  as  more  burden- 
'  some  than  slavery,  II,  223;  favors 
fourteen  years'  citizenship  for  sena- 
tors, II,  235;  opposes  leavmg  qualifi- 
cations and  control  of  elections  to 
congress,  II,  240,  248,  271;  favors 
appointment  ot  treasurer  by  joint 
ballot,  II,  314;  moves  to  strike  out 
"on  the  application  of  its  legisla- 
ture," II,  317;  opposes  power  to 
declare  war,  II,  318,  319;  proposes 
additional  powers  of  congress,  II, 
325,  340,  345, 616;  favors  committee 
on  assumption  of  state  debts,  II,  327; 
favors  control  of  militia,  II,  332, 617; 
favors  two-thirds  vote  for  naviga- 
tion acts  and  regulation  of  trade,  II, 
374,  420,  449;  favors  ratification 
of  Constitution  by  conventions  of 
nine  states,  I,  123,  II,  476,  478; 
moves  to  prohibit  any  officer  accept- 
ing present,  title,  etc.,  from  foreign 
state,  II,  389;  favors  appointment 
of  state  executives  by  general  gov- 
ernment, II,  391;  favors  securing 
benefit  of  habeas  corpus,  II,  438; 
moves  fugitive  slave  (provision,  II» 
443;  moves  to  commit  clause  on 
interstate  recognition,  II,  447;  com- 
ments on  northern  and  southern 
interests,  II,  450;  favors  no  relig- 
ious test  being  required,  II,  468; 
moves  that  each  house  be  judge  of 
privileges  of  its  own  members,  II, 
502;  opposes  consent  of  senate  to 
appointment  of  officers,  II,  539;  op- 
poses senate  as  court  of  impeach- 
ment, II,  551;  moves  committee  of 
stvle  be  instructed  to  prepare  an 
address  to  people,  II,  564,  (579);  op- 
poses three-fourths  vote  to  over-rule 
veto,  II,  586;  favors  liberty  of  press, 
II,  617;  favors  publication  of  expend- 
itures from  time  to  time,  II,  619; 
favors  increase  of  representation  for 
North  Carolina,  II,  624;  favors  trial 
by  jury  in  civil  cases,  II,  628;  op- 
poses a  second  general  convention, 

II,  632:  signs  Constitution,  II,  66c; 
notes  of  proceedings  by,  I,  xxiii;  Ob- 
servations on  plan  of  government  by, 
111,106,  (602);  in  South  Carolina  leg- 
islature, explains  work  of  Convention, 

III,  248;  in  a  letter  to  State  Gazette 
of  South  Carolina,  criticizes  Martin's 
sutements  of  proceedings,  III,  300; 
writes  to  King  and  Madison,  favor- 
ing election  of  representatives  by 
state  legislatures.  III,  355;  in  House 
of  Representatives:  speaks  of  the 
separation  of  powers  in  Constitu- 
tion, III,  376,  explains  compromises 
on  representation  and  importation 
of  slaves,  439,  and  explains  clause  on 


^ 


GENERAL   INDEX 


^5 


Pinckney,  Charles  (Conttnued) 

interstate  privileges  of  citizens,  445; 
in  Senate:  explains  election  of  presi- 
dent, III,  382,  explains  privileges  of 
members  of  congress,  384,  and  ex- 
plains election  of  president,  385; 
writes  to  J.  Q.  Adams  enclosing  copy 
of  his  plan,  III,  427. 

Pinckney,  Charles  Cotesworth,  delegate 
from  South  Carolina,  attendance  at 
Convention  of.  III,  590;  character 
sketch  of,  III,  96;  appointed  on 
committees,  II,  322^  (328),  366, 
(375);  favors  resolution  for  "more 
effective"  government,  I,  30,  (35, 
43);  doubts  powers  of  Convention, 
I>  34>  (39>  41)9  favors  compromise 
on  representation,  I,  137,  (143,  147, 
353),  360.  (364,  36s,  367,  368),  511, 
(517),  s6<S,  567,  568,  580,  592,  596; 
opposes  limitation  of  money  bills,  I, 
234,  546;  favors  eligibility  of  repre- 
sentatives to  state  offices,  I,  386, 
(39i)>  429*  434;  favors  four  year 
term  for  senate,  I,  409,  (415),  421, 
(430);  favors  no  salary  for  senate, 

I,  426,  (433);  favors  protection  of 

slavery,  I,  593i  II,  95,  37h  373,  4iS, 
416;  opposes  Convention  adjourn- 
ing, II,  18;  favors  property  qualifica- 
tions, II,  122;  opposes  negative  of 
each  house  on  acts  of  other,  II,  197; 
favors  increase  of  South  Carolina's 
number  of  representatives,  II,  219; 
moves  ten  years'  citizenship  for  sen- 
ators, II,  239;  favors  control  of 
inilitia,  II,  330,  331,  386;  favors  dis- 
tinguishing l>etween  original  holders 
of  securities  and  speculators,  II,  400; 
proposes  further  restrictions  on 
powers  over  commerce,  II,  418;  fa- 
vors possibility  of  increasing  salary  of 
judges,  II,  429;  is  not  satisfied  with 
mterstate  privileges,  II,  443;  com- 
ments favorably  on  liberality  of  dele- 
gates from  eastern  states,  II,  449; 
favors  prohibition  of  religious  test, 

II,  468;  opposes  appointment  of 
treasurer  bv  congress,  II,  614; 
thinks  trial  by  jury  in  Constitution 
would  be  embarrassing,  II,  628;  ob- 
jects to  proposed  form  of  signing 
Constitution,  II,  647;  signs  Con- 
stitution, II,  665;  in  South  Carolina 
legislature:  explains  impeachment 
of  president,  lit,  250,  explains  com- 
position of  congress,  252,  explains 
importation  of  slaves,  254,  and  ex- 
plains absence  of  a  bill  of  rights, 

*55- 
Pinckney  Plan,  I,  16,  (23),  24,  II,  98, 

(106,  128),  134,  157,  III,  4*7,  431. 
446, 479,  coi-5 1 5,  53 1,  5.34,  595- 
Pitkin,  Timothy,  records  attitude  of  cer- 


tain delegates  on  signing  Constitu- 
tion, III,  476. 

Pitt,  William,  I,  375,  II,  104. 

Plutarch,  cited,  I,  449. 

Poynings'  law,  II,  274,  275. 

Poland,  elections  in,  I,  290,  II,  30,  31, 
109. 

Powers  of  Congress  (see  also  Index  by 
Clauses,  Art.  I,  Sect.  8,  and  Nega- 
tive on  state  laws):  to  appoint  a 
treasurer,  II,  144,  168,  182,  314,  570, 
594,  614,  to  cut  canals,  II,  6ic,  to 
dispose  of  unappropriated  landfs  of 
United  States,  11,  321,  (324),  to  emit 
bills  of  credit,  II,  144,  168,  182,  308, 
to  encourage  advancement  of  useful 
knowled^,  II,  321,  (325),  to  estab- 
lish institutions  for  promotion  of 
agriculture,  etc.,  II,  J22,  (325),  to 
establish  seminaries  for  promotion 
of  literature,  etc.,  II,  322,  (325),  to 
establish   offices   not   providecf  for, 

II,  (337),  345,  (547,  550),  553,  to 
establish  property  qualifications  (see 
Property  qualifications),  to  establish 
a  university,  II,  321,  (325),  616,  to 
grant  charters  of  incorporation,  II, 
321,  322,  (325),  615,  (620),  to  levy  a 
stamp  tax,  II,  157,  to  make  sump- 
tuary laws,  II,  (3^7),  344,  to  pro- 
vide for  clearing  of  harbors,  II,  625, 
(633, 634),  to  regulate  sta^  on  post 
roads,  II,  322,  (326):  limitations  on, 
II,  (21),  25,  322,  (326,  334),  341; 
each  house  mav  originate  laws,  1, 21, 

46,  (53,  55,  61),  419,  (4*9,  434),  11, 
130,  155,  165,  181,  (294),  296,  (35j), 
J 57;  each  house  may  require  opin- 
ions of  supreme  court,  II,  314,  (341). 
Prayers  in  Convention  proposed,  I,  452, 

(458).  .        ^ 

President  of  Convention,  duties  of  (see 
Rules  and  standing  orders). 

President  of  United  States,  (see  Index  by 
Qauses,  Art.  II);  election  of  first 
(see  Introduction  of  new  govern- 
ment); title  of,  II,  171,  185,  401, 
572;  to  be  admiral  of  the  navy,  II, 
158;  not  to  hold  any  other  office,  II, 

335,(341). 
Price,  Richard,  letter  of  Benjamin  Rush 

to.  III,  33. 
Priestly  cited,  I,  437,  (440). 
Privy  Council  for  president,  II,  367,  427, 

T.    .537. 

Professional  men  one  of  three  classes  of 
people  of  United  States,  1, 402,  (411). 

Property  qualifications,  I,  428,  (433), 
II,  (116),  121,  134,  1^0,  151,  165, 
179,  201,  (206,  209,  24s),  248. 

Public  expenditures,  II,  336,  (343),  618. 

(Quakers,  I,  84,  II,  374. 

Quartering  of  soldiers,  II,  335,  (341). 


676 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Questions  in  Convention  (see  Rules  and 
standing  orders). 

Randolph,  Beverley,  letter  of  Mason  to, 
III,  CO;  letters  of  Edmund  Randolph 
to,  III,  29,  36,  A9,  57,  74,  76,  83. 

Randolph,  Edmund,  delegate  from  Vir- 

finia,  attendance  at  Convention  of, 
II,  590;  character  sketch  of.  III, 
95>  217;  elected  on  committees,  I, 
538,  (542),  II,  97,  (106),  (44c),  |48; 
presents,  explains  and  modifies  Vir- 
ginia Plan  or  Randolph  Resolutions, 
I,  16-42,  51,  53,  (57,  60),  67;  favors 
small  senate  elected  by  house,  I,  51, 

558);  favors  executive  of  three,  I,  66, 
71, 72, 74).  88,  (90, 92),  97;  opposes 
general  negative  on  state  laws,  I, 
168;  opposes  election  of  executive 
by  state  executives,  I,  176,  (181); 
favors  amendment  of  Constitution 
without  consent  of  legislature,  I, 
203;  favors  oath  to  support  Consti- 
tution, I,  203,  (207);  favors  guaran- 
tee to  states,  I,  206;  favors  seven 
years  term  for  senate,  I,  218;  favors 
establishing  only  general  principles 
of  jurisdiction  of  federal  judiciary, 
I,  223,  (232),  238;  moves  to  give 
time  to  opposition  to  prepare  a 
plan,  I,  22^,  240;  considers  powers 
of  Cbnvention  adequate,  I,  25^,  262, 
(270,  272);  favors  ratification  of 
Constitution  by  people  of  nine 
sutes,  I,  336,  II,  89, 469;  favors  two 
years  term  for  representatives,  I, 
360,  (365);  favors  payment  of  repre- 
sentatives by  national  government. 
If  37*>  (377);  favors  rotation  of 
senators,  1,  408,  (415);  favors 
prayers  in  Convention,  1, 452;  favors 
compromise  on  proportional  repre- 
sentation in  house  but  opposes 
eauality  in  senate.  I,  514,  (519),  5^3, 
561,  567,  570,  578.  J79,  594.  603,  II. 
17,  18,  19;  thmks  definition  of 
powers  of  government  too  loose,  II, 
26,  488;  opposes  appointment  of 
judges  by  executive,  II,  43,  81; 
favors  inferior  courts,  II,  ^6;  favors 
election  of  executive  by  legislature 
with  ineligibility  to  second  term,  II, 
54,  121;  favors  impeachment  01 
executive,  II,  67;  draft  of  committee 
of  detail  in  handwriting  of,  II,  137; 
proposes  modification  of  wording  of 
various  clauses,  II,  199,  304,  315, 
316,  414,  430,  44.8,  607,  608;  favors 
December  for  time  of  meeting  of 
congress,  II,  200;  favors  limitation 
of  money  bills,  II,  230,  232,  234, 
(243),  262,  273,  278,  280;  favors 
vacancies  in  senate  being  filled  by 
state  executives,  II,  231,  (242);  ob- 


jects to  fourteen  years  citizenship  for 
senators,  and  accepts  nine  years  ten- 
tatively, II,  237,  239;  favors  power 
in  each  house  to  control  attendance 
of  absent  members,  II,  253;  favors 
two  thirds  of  each  house  to  expel  a 
member,  II,  254;  favors  permitting 
an  individual  to  call  for  yeas  and 
nays,  II,  255;  favors  permitting 
any  senator  to  enter  his  dissent,  II, 
255;  favors  four  years  instead  of 
seven  for  citizenship  for  representa- 
tives, II,  268;  favors  ineligibility  ol 
members  of  congress  to  office,  II, 
2QO,  491;  favors  power  to  emit  bills 
of  credit,  II,  3 10;  objects  to  national 
legislature  deciding  whether  state 
legislature  can  or  cannot  meet,  II, 
317;  criticizes  definition  of  treason, 
II|  345.  347;  opposes  export  Ux  by 
two  thirds  vote,  II,  363;  favors 
importation  of  slaves  for  sake  of 
compromise,  II,  374;  favors  fulfil- 
ment of  engagements  of  congress,  II, 
377;  favors  control  of  mmtia,  II, 
387,  617;  opposes  ratification  of 
treaties  by  law,  II,  393;  favors  leav- 
ing legislature  free  to  refer  appcnnt- 
ments  to  states,  II,  405,  406;  op- 
poses removal  of  judges,  II,  429; 
proposes  second  general  convention 
with  power,  II,  479,  561,  564, 
6^1,  (634);  opposes  new  plan  of 
electing  president,  II,  500,  502,  537; 
opposes  each  house  being  judge 
of  privileges  of  its  members,  II,  503; 
thinks  senate  tends  toward  aris- 
tocracy, II,  513;  favors  power  in 
congress  to  declare  succession  to 
presidency,  II,  535;  opposes  pardon 
of  treason,  II,  564,  (580),  626,  627; 
favors  two  tfaji^s  vote  to  over-rule 
president's  veto,  II,  563,  587;  favors 
power  to  erant  charters  of  incor- 
poration, Ii,  615;  objections  of,  to 
the  Constitution,  II,  4C2,  560,  563, 
III,  124,  127,  135;  refuses  to  sign 
Constitution,  II,  64A^  646,  649,  III, 
124;  suggestion  of,  to  condliate 
small  states,  III,  55;  writes  to 
Beverley  Randolph  on  progress  of 
Convention  and  expenses  of  dele- 
gates, III,  29,  36,  49,  57,  74,  76, 
83;  writes  to  speaker  of  Virginia 
house  of  delegates  on  his  refusal  to 
sign  Constitution,  III,  123;  in  Wit" 
Rinia  convention:  explains  his  re- 
fusal to  si^  Constitution,  III,  307, 
337,  explains  method  of  taxation, 
309,  explains  freedom  of  religion, 
310^  explains  trial  by  jury  in  dvil 
cases,  309,  explains  that  constitution 
of  Massachusetts  was  model  for 
power  given  to  president,  312,  ez- 


■ 


GENERAL  INDEX 


677 


Randolph,  Edmund  {Continued) 

plains  power  over  militia,  319,  ex- 
plains the  restriction  upon  granting 
titles  of  nobility,  327,  explains  the 
re-eligibility  of  president,  328,  ex- 
plains prohibition  of  ex  post  facto 
laws,  328,  and  explains  clause  on 
imoortation  of  slaves,  334;  letters 
of  Madison  to,  III,  297,  358;  letter 
of  Washington  to,  III,  242. 

Randolph  Resolutions  (see  Virginia  Plan). 

Rawle,  William,  secreUry  of  Library 
Company,  writes  to  president  of 
Convention,  offering  use  of  books, 
I,  ufi. 

Read,  George,  delegate  from  Delaware, 
attendance  at  Convention  of.  III, 
590;  character  sketch  of.  III,  93; 
appointed  on  committees,  I,  558, 
(562),  II,  410,  (418);  moves  to  take 
up  resolution  for  a  "more  effective" 
government,  I,  30,  (35,  43);  moves 
to  postpone  question  of  propor- 
tional representation,  I,  37;  favors 
consolidated   national   government, 

I,  136,  (143,  14s).  202,  (206),  463, 
(471);  proposes  nomination  of 
senate  by  state  legislatures,  I,  151; 
votes  for  general  negative  on  state 
laws,  I,  168;  favors  allowing  senate 
to  amend  money  bills,  1, 234,  II,  232; 
favors  division  of  western  lands,  I, 
405 »  4^3 1  favors  good  behavior  as 
term  of  senators,  I,  ^09,  (415),  421, 
(430);  thinks  senate  should  represent 
whole  people  rather  than  states,  I, 
424;  favors  increase  of  number  of 
representatives,  I,  561,  570,  601;  ob- 
jects to  shackling  the  legislature  too 
much,  I,  582:  proposes  modification 
in  wording  of  clauses,  1, 606,  II,  242, 
618;  favors  absolute  negative  tor 
executive,  II,  200;  opposes  residence 
as  qualification  for  repre^ntatives, 

II,  217;  favors  prohibition  of  paper 
money,  II,  310;  favors  appoint- 
ment of  treasurer  by  executive,  II, 
3 14;  opposes  appointment  of  militia 
officers  by  states,  II,  333;  thinks 
requisitions  of  congress  of  confedera- 
tion were  accommodated  to  circum- 
stances, II,  358;  favors  permitting 
importation  of  slaves,  II,  374; 
moves  that  president  of  senate  have 
an  additional  casting  vote  in  case  of 
a  tie  in  election  of  president,  II,  403; 
opposes  Gerry's  plan  for  reelection  of 
president,  II,  522;  opposes  motion 
that  no  state  shall  vote  for  president 
with  less  than  three  memoers,  II, 
536;  signs  Constitution,  II,  664; 
writes  to  Dickinson  on  assembling 
of  Convention  and  outlines  Pinck- 
ney's  plan,  III,  24;  writes  to  Dickin- 


son suggesting  restriction  in  cre- 
dentials from  Delaware  on  equality 
of  votes,  III,  575;  letter  of  Dickinson 
to,  III,  81. 

Requisitions,  I,  18,  II,  136,  (354),  359. 

Revenue,  to  be  derived  principally  from 
indirect  taxation,  I,h33,  {143),  I97i 
286,  II,  277,  361. 

Revolution,  American,  I,  7i,  II,  205, 
(208,  210),  236,  269,  276,  377,  4^9. 

Rhode  Island,  (see  also  States),  attitude 
of,  towards  Convention,  I,  o,  (12, 13), 

II,  90,  562,  III,  18,  47,  76;  number 
of  representatives  in  nrst  house  from, 

1, 557,  (559),  563,  (566),  573,  n,  (12), 
I3>  623;  {proposed  number  of  electors 
of  executive  for,  II,  58,  (60,  63);  in 
the  confederation,  I,  479,  49(5,  (504); 
government  of,  I,  314,  (327),  if,  28, 
42;  conditions  in,  I,  133,  II,  47,  467, 

III,  15. 

Rice,  I,  510,  II,  360,  363,  X40. 

Ritchie,  Thomas,  letter  of  Madison  to^ 

in,  447. 

Rives,  W.  C,  letter  of  Madison  to,  III, 

521. 

Roane,  Judge,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III, 

435- 
Robertson,  James,  letter  of  Madison  to, 

."I.  497- 
Rollins  Ancient  History,  cited,  I,  459. 

Rome,  I,  74,  115,  151,  153,  157,  (158, 
159),  254,  (261,  272),  290,  307,  323, 
(3*8).  329.  (330),  424,  (432),  448, 
(456),  465,  (472),  II,  300,^71, 372. 

Rules  and  standing  orders  of  Convention, 
I,  8,  (10),  15,  (17). 

Rush,  Benjamin,  writes  to  Richard  Price, 
on  Franklin  and  the  Convention,  III, 
33. 

Rutherford,  cited,  I.  A38,  (440). 

Rutledge,  John,  aelegate  from  South 
Carolina,  attendance  at  Convention 
of.  III,  590;  character  sketch  of, 
III,  96,  238;  elected  on  committees, 
I,  J09,  (516,  520),  538,  (542),  558, 
(562),  II,  (12),  s^,  (106,  445),  448; 
seconds  nomination  of  Washington, 
and  escorts  him  to  chair,  I,  2,  3; 
receives  one  vote  for  chairman  of 
committee  of  whole,  I,  29;   wishes 

rwers  of  legislature  exactly  defined, 
,  53,  II,  17;  favors  single  executive, 
I,. 65,  (70),  79,  (88);  favors  ap- 
pointment  of  executive  by  national 
legislature,  and  opposes  new  plan  of 
election,  I,  69,  II,  57,  401,  511,  515; 
favors  election  of  representatives  b^ 
states  according  to  quotas  of  contri- 
bution but  accepts  compromise,  I, 
118,  (124),  130,  (132),  156.  163, 
(160),    192,    (i9j),   196,   (200,  204, 

207),  359,  (364),  436,  (438),  481, 
534,  (536),  560,  566,  570,  582,  II, 


678 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Rutledge,  John  (Continued) 

3,  19;  favors  state  courts,  instead 
of  "inferior  tribunals,"  I,  (il8), 
124,  (128);  opposes  appointment  of 
judges  by  executive,  I,  119,  127; 
favors  non-payment  of  senators,  I, 
211,  (219,  222);  proposes  two  years 
for  term  of  representatives,  I,  214, 
(220);  moves  to  recommit  amended 
Randolph  Resolutions  along  with 
New  Jersey  plan,  I,  241;  favors 
ineligibility  of  representatives  to 
office,  I,  386,  (390,  392),  394;  op- 
poses restriction  of  money  bills, 
il,  3,  279,  297;  thinks  guarantee 
to  states  unnecessary,  II,  48;  op- 
poses judiciary  in  veto,  II,  80;  cor- 
rections of  Randolph  draft  by,  II, 
137;  corrections  of  Wilson  draft  by. 


[I, 


II,  163;  presents  reports  of  com- 
mittees, II,  (176),  177,  (190),  j66, 
(375).  483.  (484);  proposes  legisla- 
ture should  meet  at  least  once 
every  year,  II,  200;  opposes 
restriction  of  right  of  suffrage  to 
freeholders,  II, '205;  moves  for  seven 
years  residence  in  state  for  repre- 
senutives,  II,  217,  (22O;  favors 
three  years  previous  inhabitancy  for 
representatives,  II,  218;  favors  long 
term  of  citizenship  for  senate,  II,  2^9; 
opposes  right  of  congress  to  modify 
provisions  concerning  elections,  1 1, 
340;  explains  that  committee  of 
detail  could  not  agree  on  property 
qualifications,  II,  249;  proposes 
qualifications  for  national  legisla- 
ture be  same  as  for  state  legisla- 
tures, II,  251;  proposes  modifica- 
tion of  several  clauses,  II,  (257), 
259,  389,  431;  opposes  making  all 
persons  now  citizens  eligible  to 
office,  II,  270;  moves  to  lengthen 
the  hours  of  Convention,  II,  301, 
328;  favors  protection  of  slavery,  II, 

?}o6,  364,  373,  5^9;  moves  that  funds 
or  public  creditors  should  not  be 
diverted,  II,  326;  moves  for  grand 
committee  on  assumption  of  state 
debts,  II,  327;  favors  power  to 
establish  all  offices,  II,  345;  favors 
prohibition  of  ex  post  facto  laws,  II, 

?76;  opposes  negative  on  state  laws, 
I>  39 1 »  opposes  plan  of  deciding 
disputes  between  states,  II,  400; 
opposes  removal  of  judges,  II,  428; 
favors  declaring  habeas  corpus  in- 
violable, II,  418;  moves  prohibition 
on  states  in  bills  of  attainder  and 
retrospective  laws,  II,  440;  opposes 
two-thirds  vote  for  navigation  acts, 
II,  452;  opposes  division  of  state 
without  its  own  consent,  II,  462; 
opposes  anything  in  G>nstitution  on 


land  claims,  II,  465;  favors  two- 
thirds  of  all  senators  for  ratification 
of  treaties,  II,  549;  opposes  requir- 
ing approval  of  congress  to  Constitu- 
tion, II,  C63;  moves  that  persons 
impeached  lie  suspended  until  trial, 

II,  612;  opposes  appointment  of 
treasurer  by  congress,  II,  614;  op- 
poses an  address  to  people,  II,  623; 
moves  that  president  snaU  receive 
nothing  except  his  salary,  II,  626; 
signs  (institution,  II,  665. 

St.  Clair,  Arthur,  letter  of  Collins  to, 

in,  76, 

San  Marino,  I,  380. 

Sandy  Hook,  II,  481. 

Scotland,  I,   120,  {128),   198,  205,  493, 

c      (502»  505,  507): 

Secrecy  of  Convention  proceedings,  1, 15, 
(i7),6o6,  II,  18,  107,  (115). 

Secretary  of  Convention,  (see  also  Ayes 
and  Noes,  Jackson,  William,  and 
Journal),  I,  2,  (4,  6),  8,  (11). 

Sedgwick,  Jr.,  T.,  letter  of  Madison  to, 

III,  496. 

Senate  of  the  United  States,  speeches  in, 
by  Baldwin,  III,  382,  by  Butler,  400, 
403,  by  Cobb,  464,  by  Davton,  399, 
400,  401,  402,  408,  by  King,  422, 
424,  428,  461,  by  Lowrie,  438,  by 
G.  Morris,  390,  301,  by  Pinckney, 
382,  384,  385;  trial  of  impeachment 
of  Chase  by,  406. 

Separation  of  powers,  I,  30,  (33),  3A, 
(35,  39,  40,  41),  86,  139,  ^44,  H.  S^ 

^^  ^^77*  138,  (152,  163),  177,  537. 

Sheffield,  Lord,  pamphlets  of,  II,  360. 

Sherman,  Roger,  delegate  from  (>>nnecti- 
cut,  attendance  at  Convention  of, 
III,  590;  characterization  of,  III, 
34,  88;  elected  on  committees,  I, 
558,  (562),  II,  322,  (328),  410,  (418), 
473,  (481);  is  opposed  to  too  great 
changes,  I,  34;  favors  annual  elec- 
tion of  representatives  by  state  legis- 
latures, 1,  48,  (ss,  57),  133,  (Hi), 
214,  (220),  359,  362,  (364,  36s),  373, 

(377),  450,  (457);  favors  election  of 
senate  by  state  legislatures,  I,  52, 
(59,  148),  150,  154,  (157);  opposes 
power  where  states  incompetent,  I, 
54,  59!  considers  executive  as  sub- 
ordinate of  legislature,  1, 65, 68,  (70), 
85,  II,  29;  favors  single  executive 
for  short  term  and  to  be  reeligible,  I, 
68,  97,  (105),  II,  33;  opposes  abso- 
lute veto  and  assodatixig  judges,  I, 
99,  II,  300,  585;  favors  state  courts, 
I,  118,  (i2|),  125,  II,  46;  thinks 
popular  ratification  of  constitution 
unnecessary,  I,  122;  opposes  nega- 
tive on  state  laws,  I,  166, 1 1,  27,  28, 
390;   favors  compromise  on  repxe- 


pav 


■^^^F 


^■w 


GENERAL  INDEX 


679 


Sherman,  Roger  (Continiud) 

scnution,  I,  (193),  196,  201,  (204), 
234»  5JI,  (5 17),  526,  550,  SC3,  (555), 
S59»  560,  569,  578,  582,  586,  602,  II, 
4,  s,  221,  223,  510,  553,  623;  opposes 
state  officers  taking  oath  to  sup- 
port Q>n8titution,  I,  203;  favors  six 
year  term  for  senators  and  rota- 
tion, I,  218,  (222),  409,  423,  (431); 
favors  appointment  of  judges  by 
congress,  I,  224,  232,  II,  41,  43,  44; 
favors  referring  New  Jersey  plan  to 
committee  of  whole,  I,  241;  favors 
amendment  of  Articles  of  Confedera- 
tion, I,  (j34),  341,  (347,  352);  favors 
limited  meligibility  of  members  of 
congress  to  office,  I,  386,  387,  390, 
(391,  393),  II,  287;  seconds  motion 
for  prayers  in  Convention,  I,  452: 
admits  that  Connecticut  has  failed 
to  comply  with  requisitions,  I, 
(487),  498;  opposes  discrimination 
against  new  states,  II,  3,  454;  ex- 
pects reauisitions  will  be  necessary, 
II,  11;  thinks  it  difficult  to  draw  line 
between  powers  of  general  legisla- 
ture and  those  of  states,  II,  25, 
26;  favors  giving  negative  to  one 
house  on  acts  of  ouier,  II,  196; 
favors  fixing  time  of  meeting  of  con- 
gress, II,  199;  suggests  modifica- 
tion in  wording  of  various  clauses, 
II,  216,  305,  306,  318,  419,  431,  ^62, 
465,  630;  objects  to  slave  trade  but 
accepts  compromise,  II,  220,  369, 
374,  415,  416,  417;  favors  power  of 
congress  to  modify  provisions  con- 
cerning elections,  II,  24 1 ;  opposes 
permitting  an  individual  to  call  for 
veas  and  nays,  II,  255;  thinks  legis- 
lature may  be  trusted  to  publish 
their  own  proceedings,  II,  260; 
thinks  United  States  free  to  make 
any  discriminations  with  regard  to 
foreigners,  II,  270;  suggests  pay- 
ment out  of  national  treasury  and 
allowing  states  to  increase  amount, 
II,  291;  opposes  tax  on  exports,  II, 
%Q&\  favors  appointment  of  treasurer 
by  congress,  tl,  314,  614;  prefers  to 
authorize  assumption  of  state  debts, 
II»  327*  356;  favors  modifying  clause 
on  control  of  militia,  II,  331,  332, 
356,  385f  386,  388,  426;  remarks  on 
treason,  II,  349;  favors  adjustment 
of  state  accounts  with  U.  S.,  II,  357; 
favors  prohibition  of  export  tax,  II, 
3^1?  374!  opposes  plan  to  decide 
controversies  between  states,  II,  401; 
favors  new  plan  of  electing  tiie  presi- 
dent, II,  401,  499,  512,  514,  522,  527, 
5 37 1  opposes  appointment  of  all 
officers  by  president,  II,  405;  favors 
power  to  vest  appointment  of  in- 


ferior officers,  II,  406,  627;  favors 
provision  for  payment  of  debts,  II, 
41^;  favors  proposal  for  removal  of 
judges,  II,  428;  presents  report  of 
committee,  II,  434,  (437);  favors 
prohibition  of  bills  of  credit,  II,  439; 
thinks  states  ought  to  retain  power 
over  embargoes,  II,  440;  favors 
prohibition  of  states  in  private  con- 
tracts, II,  440;  thinks  prohibition 
of  state  import  duties  might  be  left 
to  congress,  II,  441;  favors  all  state 
duties  coming  into  national  treasury, 
II,  442;  opposes  fugitive  slave  pro- 
viso, II,  443;  opposes  two-thirds 
vote  for  navigation  acts,  II,  450; 
favors  consent  of  state  legislature  to 
division,  II,  455;  thinks  prohibition 
of  religious  test  unnecessary,  II,  468; 
favors  ratification  of  Constitution  by 
ten  states,  II,  468,  475,  477;  moves 
to  refer  uncompleted  parts  of  Con- 
stitution to  a  grand  committee,  II, 
481;  objects  to  power  in  bankruptcy 
cases,  II,  489;  remarks  that  appro- 
priations for  army  are  permitted  but 
not  required  to  be  for  two  years,  II, 
C09;  favors  ratification  of  treaties 
by  senate  alone,  II,  538;  favors  rati- 
fication of  treaties  of  peace  by  house, 
II,  548;  moves  that  no  treaties  be 
made  without  consent  of  majority  of 
all  senate,  II,  549;  opposes  supreme 
court  to  try  impeachment  of  presi- 
dent, II,  551;  moves  that  congress 
may  propose  amendments  to  states, 
II,  558;  opposes  requiring  approba- 
tion of  congress  to  consdtution,  II, 
561;  thinks  state  bills  of  rights  are 
sufficient,  II,  588;  objects  to  power 
to  cut  canals,  II,  615;  thinks  pro- 
vision for  liberty  of  press  unneces- 
sary, II,  618;  favors  publication  of 
expenditures  "from  time  to  time" 
instead  of  annually,  II,  619;  thinks 
address  to  people  unnecessary,  II, 
623:  comments  on  power  to  regulate 
trade,  II,  625;  moves  that  amend- 
ments to  constitution  should  not 
deprive  any  state  of  equality  in 
senate,  II,  629,  630^  signs  Con- 
stitution, II,  664;  as  Citizen  of  New 
Haven,  explains  ineligibility  of  mem- 
bers of  congress.  III,  354;  writes  to 
John  Adams,  explaining  concurrence 
of  senate  in  appointments,  III,  358; 
in  House  of  Representatives:    ex- 

Flains  unanimity  of  Convention, 
II,  357,  explains  why  president  does 
not  have  sole  appointment  of  all 
offices,  357,  explains  ratio  of  i  to 
30,000,  358,  explains  control  of  elec- 
tions by  congress,  359,  and  refers  to 
power  to  establish  a  national  uni- 


68o 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Shemun^  Roger  (Cofiftnu/J) 

vertity,  362;  proposals  of,  for  New 

Jersey  plan,  III,  615. 
Sliort,  Williain,  letters  of  Madison  to, 

III,  36, 136. 
SicUy,  II,  370. 
Small  states,  (see  Large  states  vs.  small 

states),  suggestion  of  Randolph  for 

conciliating,  III,  55. 
Smith  in  New  York  convention  refers  to 

a  motion  in  Convention  on  term  of 

president.  III,  338. 
Smitn,  S.  H.,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III, 

47J. 
Solon,  I,  125.  491. 

Somers,  Lord,  I,  437,  (440). 
South  Carolina,  (see  also  States),  dele- 
gates   from    in   Convention,   I,    2, 

0.  s)»  370,  (375),  491,  (500),  III, 

5S?>  587.  589,  590;  credentials  of 
delegates  from,  III,  581:  number  of 
representatives  in  first  house  from, 

!•  SS7>  (559),  563,  564,  (566,  568), 
573,  586,  601,  II,  (12).  13,  219; 
proposed  number  of  electors  of  exe- 
cutive for,  II,  58,  (60,  63);  govern- 
ment of,  I,  234,  360,  362,  n,  279, 
287,  614;  refuses  to  comply  with 
rec^uisition  of  congress,  I,  430;  con- 


bv  Butler,  C.  Pinckney  and  C.  C. 

Pmckney,  III,  248,  252,  255. 
Southern  states,  (see  Northern  states  vs. 

southern  sutes),  I,  573,  II,  57,  306, 

451,  III,  2J. 
Sovereignty,  definition  of,  I,  27;  of  states, 

I,  19,  (jaS,  318),  331.  467,  n,  347» 
584,  666. 
Spaiffht,  Richard  Dobbs,  delegate  from 
North  Carolina,  attendance  at  Con- 
vention of,  III,  590;  character 
sketch  of.  III,  95;  moves  additional 
rules  of  order,  I,  9,  (13);  favors 
representation  according  to  free  in- 
habitants, I,  31,  (36);  favors  elec- 
tion of  senate  by  state  legislatures, 

I,  51*  (58);  moves  seven  years  for 
term  of  senators,  I,  218;  wishes  for 
division  of  ineligibility  clause,  I,  390; 
opposes  equality  of  votes  in  senate, 
it,  is;  favors  appointment  of  execu- 
tive by  national  legislature,  II,  95, 
99;  opposes  requinng  a  law  to  re- 
move seat  of  ^vernment,  II,  261; 
opposes  two-thirds  vote  for  naviga- 
tion acts,  y,  451;  moves  senate 
choose  president  out  of  thirteen 
highest  candidates,  II,  515;  moves 
six  years  and  seven  years  for  term 
of  president,  II,  525;  moves  electors 
meet  at  seat  of  general  government, 

II,  526;  moves  power  for  president 


to  fill  vacancies,  II,  540;  favors  two- 
thirds  vote  of  senate  for  treaties  of 
peace,  II,  J43;    signs  Constitution, 

II,  665;  wntes  to  Caswell  on  length 
of  Convention,  III,  46;  writes  to 
Iredell  on  slowness  of  Convention, 

III,  54,  and  on  progress  ol  Conven- 
tion, 68;  in  the  Noith  Carolina  Con* 
vention:  explains  power  of  senate 
in  treaties.  III,  342,  explains  three- 
fifths  rule,  343,  explains  power  of 
taxation,  345,  explains  importation 
of  slaves,  146,  explains  trial  by  jury, 
349,  and  defends  the  powers  oi  Con- 
vention, 351,  352;  letter  of  C^well 
to,  III,  63. 

Spain,  1, 579, 604. 

Sparhawk,  John,  reported  to  be  appointed 
delegate  from  New  Hampshire,  III, 


557. 

Sparks,  Jared,  records  in  his  journal  con- 
versation with  Madison  on  plan  sent 
by  Pinckney  to  Adams,  III,  478; 
writes  to  Madison  on  Pinckney  plan, 
III,  482,  and  on  part  taken  by  Mor- 
ris in  Convention,  497;  letters  of 
Madison  to.  III,  498,  502,  514. 

Sparu,  I,  254,  (261,  272),  307,  448,  (456, 
458),  II,  299. 

Stages  on  post  roads  to  be  regulated,  II, 
322,  (326). 

Stamp  tax,  (see  Powers  of  Congress),  II, 
157,  III,  156,  201. 

State,  secretary  of,  II,  336,  (343). 

States,  abolition  oif,  suggested,  I,  24,  136, 
137,  (141,  143,  145),  153,  (157,  159), 
202,  (206),  323,  (328),  337, 340,  (345, 
346,  349),  355,  357,  (j66).  III,  152, 
179;  equal  division  of,  proposed,  I, 
177.  178,  180,  (182,  183,  181,  186, 
iQi),  199,  251,  27c,  321,  (327),  446, 
II,  456.  464,  III,  613;  executives  of, 

I,  96,  (105,  109);  formation  of  con- 
stitutions of,  I,  26,  515,  II,  91; 
interests  of,  opposed  to  national 
government,  I,  133,  (141,  142),  249, 
284,  (295,  301,  305,  323),  328,  337, 

344,  355,  359,  (363,  3^6,  374),  378, 
405,  (413,  416),  11,  476,  478,  III, 
239;  legislatures  of,  I,  210,  360,  II, 
74, 199,  231, 588;  money  bills  in,  II, 
275,  278,  279;  population  and  tax 
quota  of,  I,  190,  573;  qualifications 
for  elections  in,  I,  465,  (472,  477), 

II,  C7,  201,  20J. 

Steele,  William,  wntes  to  J.  D.  Steele 

on  Franklin's  motion  for  prayers  in 

Convention,  III,  467. 
Stevenson,  Andrew,  letters  of  Madison 

to,  III.  473, 483. 
Stiles,  Ezra,  extracts  from  diary  of.  III, 

75,  168. 
Stone,  Thomas,  appointed  delegate  from 

Maryland,  III,  558. 


GENERAL   INDEX 


68l 


Strong,  Caleb,  delegate  from  Massachu- 
setts, attendance  at  Convention  of, 
III,  590;  character  sketch  of,  III, 
87;  remarks  on  election  of  house,  I, 
58;  votes  against  seven  years  for 
executive  term,  I,  72;  votes  against 
seven  years  for  senate,  I,  219;  favors 
one  year  term  for  representatives,  I, 
361,  (368);  favors  compromise  on 
represenution,  I,  515,  (5I9)»  H,  7, 
15;  opposes  association  of  judges  m 
veto,  tl,  75;  favors  eligibility  of  exe- 
cutive to  second  term,  II,  100;  moves 
that  money  bills  originate  in  house 
but  that  senate  may  amend,  II,  232, 
(243),  297;  favors  four  dollars  per 
day  for  members  of  congress,  leaving 
states  to  make  additions,  II,  293 :  fa- 
vored Constitution,  III,  476;  in  Mass- 
achusetts convention:  explains  reason 
for  biennial  elections.  III,  247,  thinks 
language  of  constitution  not  ambig- 
uous, 248,  explains  number  of  repre- 
sentatives, 200,  speaks  of  difficulties 
in  construction  of  senate,  261,  and 
explains  why  compromise  committee 
on  representation  was  appointed, 
262;  letter  of  Gorham  to,  III,  75. 

Stuart,  David,  letters  of  Washington  to, 
111,51,  128. 

Submission  of  Constitution  to  congress 
and  states,  II,  (556),  559,  579,  604, 
(608,)  665. 

Sullivan,  president  of  New  Hampshire, 
referred  to,  II,  57;  letter  of  Gilman 
to.  III,  82. 

Sumptuary  laws  (see  Powers  of  Coneress). 

Supreme  court,  opinions  of  may  oe  re- 

?uired  by  congress  and  by  executive, 
^      ,  i,  334.  (341). 
Sweden,  I,  289. 

Switzerland,  I,  112,  28c,  (296,  303),  307, 
317,  319,  (326,  330),  343,  (348,  350), 

Sydney,  writes  to  Dorchester,  on  rumored 
establishment  of  a  monarchy.  III, 
80;  letter  of  Dorchester  to.  III,  353. 

Teft,  J.  K.,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III,  494. 
Thebes,  I,  307,  ^8,  (456). 
Tobacco,  II,  306,  360,  363, 449. 
Treasurer  (see  Fbwers  of  Congress). 
Treasury,  department  of,  II,  135,  136, 

158. 
Treaty  of  1783, 1,  338,  (346, 349),  II,  462, 

Trist,  N.  P.,  records  conversation  with 
Madison  on  correctness  of  his  notes 
of  debates,  III,  533;  letter  of 
Madison  to,  III,  516. 

Tucker,  St.  George,  letter  of  Pierce  to, 
III,  100. 

Turberville,  G.  L.,  letter  of  Madison  to, 
HI,  354. 


Turkey,  1, 328. 

Tyler,  John,  letter  of  Madison  to^  III, 
SH- 

Unconstitutional  laws  (see  Laws  contrary 

to  Constitution). 
University  to  be  established  by  Congress, 

II,  321,  (325),  616. 

Van  Buren,  letter  of  Madison  to,  III,  477. 

Vamum,  Joseph,  writes  to  Washington, 
enclosing  letter  of  several  gentlemen 
of  Rhode  Island,  III.  47. 

Vattcl,  cited,  1, 437, 438,  (440, 442). 

Venice,  I,  307,  II.  102. 

Vermont,  I,  188,  (189),  II,  94, 455, 463. 

Virginia,  (see  also  States),  delegates  in 
Convention  from,  I,  i,  (3,  5),  11,  18, 
554,  II,  234,  III,  80,  558,  587,  590; 
credentials  of  delegates  from.  III, 
559;  number  of  representatives  in 
first  house  from,  I,  557,  (559),  563, 
(566),  572,  601,  II,  (12),  13;  pro- 
portion of  power  of,  1, 167,  (170,  172, 
173);  proposed  number  of  electors 
of  executive  for,  II,  58,  (60,  63); 
in  Confederation,  I,  316,  (326,  330), 
342,  (348),  437,  (439),  487,  (407); 
constitution  and  government  of,  I, 
27,  52,  317,  (327),  362,  387,  388,  389, 
392,  457,  476,  584,  II,  8q,  14J,  205, 
217, 252, 276,  302;  Bacon  s  Rebellion 
in,  II,  347;  commerce  and  trade  of, 

I,  447,  (456),  II,  w,  360,  363,  441, 
449,  586,  III,  268;    conditions  m, 

I,  49,  295.  325,  406,  (414,  417),  540, 

II,  4,  452,  462,  463;  slavery  in,  II, 
221,370,371,378. 

Virginia  convention,  speeches  in:  by 
Madison,  III,  311,  312,  313,  314, 
317,  318,  319,  324,  325,  326,  327,  328, 

329,  330,  331,  335,  by  Mason,  326, 

330,  334,  by  Randolph,   307,  309, 
310,  312,  3 19,  327,  328,  329,  334, 337. 

Virginia  Plan,  presented  to  Convention, 
I,  (16),  18,  (23, 24, 27);  in  committee 
of  the  whole  house,  I,  29-239;  as 
amended  and  reported  from  com- 
mittee of  the  whole,  I,  (223),  228, 
(235,  238);  referred  back  to  com- 
mittee of  the  whole,  along  with  New 
Jersey  plan,  I,  241-322,  (325-327, 
J  29,  333);  accepted  in  preference  to 
New  Jersey  plan,  I,  (3 12),  322,  (327); 
text  of,  criticized.  III,  593. 


Wadsworth,  Jeremiah,  writes  to  King,  on 

Sherman,  III,  33;  letter  of  King  to, 

III,  26. 
Walsh,  Robert,  letters  of  Madison  to, 

III,  436,  438;    letter  of  Morris  to, 

III,Ai8. 
Walton,  Georee,  appointed  delegate  from 

Georgia,  III,  (559),  576. 


i 


682 


GENERAL   INDEX 


War,  department  and  secretary  of,  1, 139, 
H,  53»  I35»  136,  158,  329,  335,  336, 
(34 1 »  343),  367. 

Warren,  General,  letter  of  Gerry  to,  III, 

^• 
Washington,  George,  delegate  from  Vir- 

finia,  attendance  at  Convention  of, 
II,  590;    character  sketch  of.  III, 
94;  elected  president  of  Convention, 

I,  (2),  3,  (5»  H);  votes  for  single 
executive,  I,  97;  not  consulted  as  to 
vote  on  general  negative  of  state 
laws,  I,  168;  votes  against  election 
of  executive  by  legislature,  II,  I2i; 
votes  and  explains  his  vote  in  favor 
of  restricting  money  bills  to  lower 
house,  II,  280;  votes  for  permitting 
export  tax  by  two-thirds  vote,  II, 
363;  favors  ratification  of  Consti- 
tution by  seven  states,  II,  482; 
votes  against  two-thirds  vote  to 
over-rule  president's  veto,  II,  587; 
urges  strongly  modifying  ratio  of 
representation,  II,  644;  inquires 
what  convention  wants  done  with 
papers  of  Convention,  II,  648;  signs 
Constitution,  II,  664;  referred  to 
by  speakers  in  Convention,  I,  84, 

II,  122,  456;  anecdotes  of,  III,  8c, 
86;  arrival  in  Philadelphia  of.  III, 
20;  attitude  of,  toward  the  work  of 
Convention,  III,  476;  favors  strong 
centralized  government  during  ses- 
sions of  committee  of  whole  house, 

III,  152,  15^  178,  190;  influence  of, 
in  Convenuon,  III,  105,  302,  381, 
471,  472;  extracts  from  diary  of, 
III,  20,  21,  26,  27,  2^,  32,  33,  14, 
53 »  65,  67,  81;  wntes  to  Mrs. 
Graham  on  difficulties  of  Conven- 
tion, III,  137;  writes  to  Hamilton 
of  his  despair  of  a  favorable  issue 
of  Convention,  III,  56;  writes  to 
Humphrey  on  completed  Constitu- 
tion, III,  103;  writes  to  lay  of  his 
inability  to  leave  Philadelphia,  III, 
76;  writes  to  Jefferson  on  his  acccpt- 
mg  appointment  to  Convention,  III, 
31;  writes  to  Knox  on  progress  of 
Convention,  III,  70;  writes  to 
Lafayette  on  his  accepting  appoint- 
ment to  Convention,  III,  34,  on 
progress  of  Convention,  69,  on  a 
second  convention,  270,  and  on  a  bill 
of  rights  and  trial  by  jury,  297; 
writes  to  Lee  on  attending  Conven- 
tion, III,  22;  writes  to  Madison  on 
Pinckney*s  Observations,  III,  131: 
writes  to  Ncwenham  on  spirit  of 
accommodation  in  Convention,  III, 
339;  writes  to  Randolph  concerning 
second  convention.  III,  242;  writes 
to  David  Stuart  on  attendance  at 
Convention  and  defects  of  confed- 


eration, III,  51,  128;  in  a  message 
to  house  of  representatives,  declares 
Convention  did  not  intend  to  make 
assent  of  house  necessary  to  a  treaty, 
III,  ^71;  letter  of  Hamilton  to,  III, 
53;  letters  of  Jackson  to.  III,  18, 
82;  letter  of  lay  to,  III,  61;  letter  of 
Knox  to.  III,  30;  letter  of  T«inroln 
to.  Ill,  263;  letter  of  Mason  to.  III, 
102;  letters  of  Madison  to,  III,  123, 
129,  168;  letter  of  Joseph  Vamum 
to.  III,  47. 
Weaver,  Nicholas,  appointed  messenger, 

1,2. 

Webster,  Noah,  letter  of  Madison  to.  III, 

WellsTw.  H.,  letter  of  Morris  to.  III,  421. 

West,  Benjamin,  appointed  delegate  from 
New  Hampshire,  III,  (557),  573. 

West,  (see  New  states  in  the  west),  <^,  405, 
463,  II,  199,  370,  442, 452. 

West  Indies,  II,  307,  360, 449, 4C2. 

Wheat  as  a  standard  of  value,  1,  216,  II, 
45,  142,  292. 

Wheat,  staple  of  New  Jersey  and  Penn- 
sylvania, II,  363, 449. 

Williamson,  Hugh,  delegate  from  North 
Carolina,  attendance  at  Convention 
of,  III,  590;  character  sketch  of.  III, 
95 1  2t7;  elected  on  committees,  I, 
558,  (562),  II,  322,  (128),  366,  (375), 
410,  (^18),  473,  (481);  favors  plural 
executive,  I,  71,  II,  100;  favors  im- 
peachment of  executive,  I,  78,  (88); 
opposes  election  of  executive  by 
electors,  I,  81,  (91),  II,  64,  73; 
favors  election  of  executive  by  legis- 
lature, I,  81,  (91),  II,  32;  asks  if  it  is 
intended  to  annex  a  council  to  execu- 
tive, I,  97;  favors  two-thirds  vote 
instead  of  a  veto,  I,  140;  favors 
small  number  for  senate,  1,  150,  407, 
II,  94;  opposes  general  negative  on 
sute  laws,  I,  i6j,  (169, 171),  II,  391; 
favors  proportional  representation 
according  to  population,  1, 180,  (191), 

445,  (456,  459),  515,  53».  560,  579, 
581;  opposes  oath  by  state  officers 

to  support  constitution,  I,  207; 
thinks  there  will  be  no  taxation 
by  states,  but  of  individuals,  I, 
207;  favors  restriction  of  money 
bills,  I,  234,  II,  230,  233,  263,  287, 
297;  favors  payment  ox  representa- 
tives by  states,  I,  372;  favors  six 
years  for  senators,  and  rotation,  I, 
409,  (415):  proposes  modification  of 
wording  of  several  clauses,  I,  427,  II, 
196,  219,  357,  618;  favors  eligibility 
of  senators  to  state  offices,  I,  428, 
429;  explains  omission  of  prayers 
in  Convention,  I,  452;  moves  to 
reduce  representation  of  New  Hamp- 
shire on  account  of  direct  taxation. 


GENERAL   INDEX 


683 


Williamson,  Hugh  (Continiud) 

I,  (567),  601;  favors  ineligibility  of 
executive  to  second  term,  II,  58, 
501;  suggests  federal  officers  take 
oath  to  support  state  governments, 

II,  87;  favors  ratification  of  Con- 
stitution by  conventions,  II,  91: 
suggests  that  each  elector  should 
vote  for  three  candidates  for  presi- 
dent, II,  113;  thinks  public  opinion 
will  oppose  attempt  to  separate  seat 
of  government  from  that  of  state,  II, 
127;  opposes  property  qualifications, 
II,  201,  250;  opposes  requirement  of 
previous  inhabitancy  for  representa- 
tives, II,  218;  favors  filling  vacancies 
in  senate  by  state  executives,  II,  231, 
232;  favors  long  term  of  citizenship 
for  members  of  congress,  II,  239, 
268;  opposes  law  to  change  seat  of 
government,  II,  262;  favors  ineli- 
gibility of  members  of  house,  II, 
287, 490,  492;  favors  two-thirds  vote 
to  over-rule  veto,  II,  joi,  585,  586; 
favors  prohibition  of  export  tax, 
II,  307,  360;  favors  leaving  land 
claims  in  present  status,  II,  328, 
462;  thinks  limitation  of  appro- 
priations the  best  guard  against 
standing  army,  II,  330;  opposes 
direct  taxation  according  to  repre- 
sentation until  census  be  taken,  II, 
358;  favors  compromise  on  impor- 
tation of  slaves,  II,  373,  415;  favors 
prohibition  of  ex  post  facto  laws,  II, 
376;  favors  plan  for  settling  con- 
troversies between  states,  II,  401; 
sug^ts  legislature  provide  for  suc- 
cession to  presidency,  II,  427;  favors 

Frohibition  of  state  import  duties, 
I,  441;  moves  to  take  clause  for 
inter-state  recognition  from  articles 
of  confederation,  II,  447;  favors 
two-thirds  vote  for  navigation  acts, 
II,  ^50;  favors  leaving  legislature 
free  m  admitting  new  states,  II,  454; 
objects  to  several  features  of  new 
plan  of  electing  president,  II,  512, 
514,  515,  522,  524,  52s  526,  527, 
537»  55  ^>  favors  two-thirds  vote 
of  senate  for  treaties  of  peace,  II, 
5^1,  543,  548,  549;  favors  increase 
of  number  of  representatives,  II, 
553,  612;  favors  approbation  of  con- 
gress to  Constistution,  II,  563;  ob- 
serves that  no  provision  has  been 
made  for  juries  in  civil  cases,  II,  587; 
suggests  siening  letter  accompanv- 
ing,  instead  of  Constitution  itself, 
II,  645;  signs  Constitution,  II,  665; 
writes  to  Iredell  on  North  Carolina 
delegates.  III,  55,  and  on  progress 
of  Convention,  61 ;  writes  to  Caswell 
on  delegation  of  North  Carolina  in 


Convention,  III,  70;  remarks  on 
effect  of  the  Constitution  on  North 
Carolina,  III,  238;  writes  to  Madi- 
son concerning  the  navigation  of  the 
Mississippi  in  Convention,  II,  306; 
in  House  of  Representatives  explains 
compromise  on  representation  and 
taxation.  III,  365. 
Wilson,  James,  delegate  from  Pennsyl- 
vania, attendance  at  Convention  of, 
III,  590;  character  sketch  of.  III, 
91,  236;  elected  on  committee,  II, 
97,  (106,  44O,  448;  nominates 
Temple  Franklin  as  secretary,  I,  4; 
favors  guarantee  to  states,  II,  47, 48; 
favors  annual  election  of  representa- 
tives by  people,  I,  49,  (56,  57),  132, 
(141,  142,  147),  359,  361,  (365,  367, 
368) ;  favors  election  of  senate  by  peo- 
ple, I,  52,   (58),  148,  151,  153,  (156, 

}57f  159),  405,  (413,  4x6);  thinks  it 
impossible  to  enumerate  powers 
of  legislature,  I,  60;  favors  single 
executive,  I,  63,  65,  66,  (70,  71,  73, 
74»  93),  96,  (105,  109);  favors  fixing 
extent  of  executive  authority,  I,  63, 
(67);  favors  election  of  executive  by 
people,  I,  68,  69,  II,  29,  31,  56,  102, 
106,  402;  favors  short  executive 
term  and  reeligibility,  I,  68,  (71,  73); 
proposes  system  of  electors  for  elec- 
tion of  executive,  I,  {•;•;),  80,  (89, 91), 
II,  90,  103,  105;  reads  Franklin's 
speeches,  I,  81,  (91),  197,  (205),  II, 
641,  (649);  favors  impeachment  of 
executive,  I,  86,  II,  64;  opposes 
executive  council,  I,  97;  favors  4in- 
qualified  veto  with  association  of 
judiciary,  I,  94,  98,  100,  (104,  105, 
106,  107,  108,  131),  138,  140,  (141, 
144),  II,  73,  78,  79,  298,  301;  favors 
appointment  of  judges  by  executive, 
I,  11^,  (126,  127),  II,  41;  favors  rati- 
fication of  constitution  by  people, 
and  of  seven  states,  without  approval 
of  congress,  I,  123,  127,  II,  468,  469, 
477,  561,  562;  moves  to  authorize 
instead  of  require  inferior  courts,  I, 
124,  125,  (127,  128);  opposes  sugges- 
tion of  abolishing  state  governments, 
I,  137,  143,  159,  322,  (328,  330); 
favors  negative  on  state  laws,  I,  166, 
(170,  172,  173),  II,  391;  favors  pro- 
portional representation  according 
to  population  in  house  and  accepts 
compromise,  I,  179,  (185,  191),  193, 
196,  (201),  205,  (208),  449,  (457), 
515.  (519,  527),  535,  540,  542,  583, 
587,  59?,  595,  602,  II,  223;  favors 
proportional  representation  in  sen- 
ate, and  opposes  compromise,  1, 193, 


(202),  206,  482,  488,  (494.  498,  503, 

^,->'V'  "5,  n, 

4,  5,  10;  contrasts  New  Jersey  plan 


505,  527),  535,  550,  (554) 


684 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Wilson,  James  (Continued) 

with  Virginia  plan,  I,  252,  (260,  265, 
269,  270},  276;  favors  government 
founded  on  people,  I,  253,  (261,  266, 
269,  275),  27^,  60s;  thinks  states 
never  were  mdependent  of  each 
other,  I,  324,  (3*9.  33 0;  favors  leg- 
islature of  two  houses,  I,  ^43,  (34^» 
150};  thinks  states  not  m  danger 
from  national  government,  I,  355, 
(363,  366);  favors  payment  of  repre- 
sentatives out  of  national  treasury,  I. 
373»  (377,  378.  379);  favors  liberal 
qualifications  for  members  of  con- 
gress, I,  375,  (379),  II,  125,  201,  217, 
218,  210,  237.  (243)»  2SI,  268,  269, 
272;  favors  limited  ineligibility  of 
members  of  congress   to  office,   I, 

376.  (379),  387,  (39I;  393),  428,  434. 
II,  287,  289,  491;  favors  six  years 
and  rotation  for  senate,  I,  421,  425, 
U32);  opposes  limitation  of  money 
bills,  I,  S42,  544,  546,  II,  224,  233, 
234,  274;  favors  distinguishing  be- 
tween powers  of  general  legislature 
and  those  of  states,  II,  26;  suggests 
modification  in,  and  explains  word- 
ing of,  various  clauses,  II,  47,  315, 
316,  427,  411.  503,  553,  607;  fa- 
vors impeachment  and  removal  of 
senators,  II,  68;  opposes  reference  of 
questions  on  executive  to  committee 
of  detail,  II,  70,  115;  afraid  that 
oath  to  support  Constitution  may 
interfere  witn  amendments,  II,  87: 
favors  joint  ballot  in  all  cases  of 
election,  II,  197,  402;  favors  fixing 
time  of  meeting  of  Congress,  II,  198, 
200;  opposes  vacancies  in  senate 
being  filled  by  state  executives,  II, 
231,  (242);  opposes  small  number 
for  quorum,  II,  253;  opposes  per- 
mitting any  senator  to  enter  his 
dissent,  II,  255;  favors  requiring 
publication  of  proceedings,  if,  260: 
cites  Pennsylvania  as  illustration  of 
advantage  of  encouraging  immigra- 
tion, II,  269;  fears  encroachments 
b^  legislature,  II,  joo;  explains 
distinction  between  duties  and  im- 
posts, II,  305;  opposes  prohibi- 
tion of  export  taxes,  II,  307,  362, 
363 ;  favors  prohibiting  paper  money 
altogether,  II,  Jio,  439;  opposes 
power  to  establish  all  offices,  II, 
145;  criticizes  definition  of  treason, 
II,  146,  348,  349;  thinks  provision 
in  plan  is  a  bounty  on  slave  importa- 
tion, II,  372;  favors  permitting 
navigation  acts,  II,  375,  451;  op- 
poses prohibition  of  ex  post  facto 
laws,  II,  376,  (378);  opposes  ap- 
pointment of  officers  by  Senate,  II, 
389;    favors  ratification  of  treaties 


by  law,  II,  392,  538;  opposes  plan 
for  deciding  controversies  between 
states,  II,  401;  thinks  pardon  before 
conviction  may  be  necessary,  II, 
426;  opposes  proposal  for  removal 
of  judges,  II,  429;  does  not  think 
suspension  of  habeas  corpus  is  neces- 
sary, II,  438;  favors  prohibition  on 
states  in  private  contracts,  II,  440; 
opposes  fugitive  slave  proviso,  II, 
443;  explams  meaning  of  clause 
on  interstate  recognition,  II,  X47; 
favors  consent  of  legislature  to  divi- 
sion of  state,  II,  456;  opposes  any- 
thing in  Constitution  regarding  land 
claims,  II,  462,  465;  uvors  judg- 
ments in  one  state  luiving  effect  in 
another,  II,  ^88;  favors  new  plan  of 
electing  president  with  some  modifi- 
cations, II,  501,  513,  522;  objecu  to 
the  great  powers  ai  senate,  II,  522, 
(530);  opposes  two  thirds  of  senate 
for  ratification  of  treaties,  II,  540, 
547*  548)  549;  prefers  a  council  to 
senate  in  appointments,  II,  ^42; 
moves  to  require  assent  of  two  thirds 
of  states  to  amendments,  II,  558, 559; 
objects  to  congress  defining  law  of  na- 
tions, II,  615;  favors  power  to  incor- 
porate, II,  615,  616,  (620);  favors 
power  to  establish  a  university,  II, 
616;  favors  publication  of  expendi- 
tures from  time  to  time  instead  of 
annually,  II,  619;  favors  pardon 
for  treason,  II,  626;  favors  deposit- 
ing journal  of  Convention  with 
president,  II,  648;  signs  Constitu- 
tion, II,  664;  work  of,  on  committee 
of  style.  III,  170;  thinks  that  con- 
gress has  no  power  to  establish  a 
national  bank.  III,  375;  addresses 
a  meeting  of  citizens  of  Philadel- 
phia answering  objections  to  Consti- 
tution, III,  loi;  in  Pennsylvania 
convention:  remarks  on  hours  of 
convention.  III,  137,  explains  diffi- 
culties of  Convention,  138,  remarks 
on  bill  of  rights,  and  on  powers  of 
Convention,  143,  remarks  on  preser- 
vation of  state  governments,  144, 
explains  number  of  members  in 
lower  house,  159,  explains  why  term 
"slave"  was  not  used  in  Constitu- 
tion, 160,  explains  absence  of  a  bill 
of  rights  and  powers  of  senate,  161, 
explains  trial  by  jury,  163,  and 
speaks  of  the  spirit  of  the  Conven- 
tion and  of  compromise  in  election 
of  president,  165. 

Wilson's  notes  and  papers  of  proceedings 
in  Convention,  I,  xxii,  190,  276,  520, 
II,  129,  134,  150,  152,  157,  i{9.  163. 

Wolcott,  Erastus,  appointed  delegate 
from  Connecticut,  III,  557. 


■I    L. 


GENERAL   INDEX 


68s 


Wood,  Joseph,  letter  of  Madison  to,  III, 
538. 

Writs  and  commissions  to  run  in  name 
of  United  States,  II,  I72,  335,  (342). 

Wythe,  George,  delegate  irom  Virginia, 
attendance  at  Convention  of,  III, 
590;  character  sketch  of,  III,  94; 
elected  on  committee  on  rules,  I,  2, 
(4);  presents  report  of  committee 
on  rules,  I,  7,  (10,  13),  15,  (17); 
thinks  house  ready  to  act  on  first 
substitute  for  first  Randolph  Reso- 
lution, I,  41;  wishes  general  prin- 
ciples established  before  details,  I, 
60;  favors  single  executive,  I,  97; 
letter  of,  explaining  retirement  from 
G>nvention,  III,  59. 


Yates,  Robert,  delegate  from  New  York, 
attendance  at  Convention  of.  III, 
590;  character  sketch  of.  III,  90; 
appointed  on  committees,  I,  500, 
(516,  520),  558,  (562),  II,  (12); 
votes  against  establishment  of  "na- 
tional government,"  I,  35;  reports 
to  the  ^vernor  of  New  York  on 
Convention,  III,  244;  letter  of 
Lansing  to,  III,  352. 

Yates's  notes  ("Secret  Proceedings"), 
described  and  criticized,  I,  xiv;  text 
of,  I,  1-536  passim;  extracts  from, 
used  by  Genet  to  attack  Madison, 
I,  xiv,  III,  410. 

Yeas  and  Nays  in  Convention  (see  Ayes 
and  Noes). 


?f  7  " 


I 


v/^y 


1 


4515    16 


y' 


•  'I 


3  2044  038  740  361 


HARVARD  LAW  SCHOOL  LIBRARY 

This  book  is  due  on  or  before  the  date  stamped  be- 
low. Books  must  be  returned  to  the  Circulation 
Desk  from  which  they  were  borrowed.  Non- 
receipt  of  an  overdue  notice  does  not  exempt 
the  user  from  a  fine. 


\i » 199/ 


OCTM^gg 


Nw-  4  m 


4IJJ 


SEEJU2m . 


aa 


•  2007 


