6 October 1,1783 may be worthy of Consideration, whether it would not be more for the Interest of the State, to pay its proportion of the Army Debt by this Mode, than by compromising with the officers, & discharging in Specie, the Arrearages of their pay, Cloathing & Rations, agreable to the original Contract. We mean not however to give a decided Opin ion on this important Subject, but submit it to the Wisdom of the hon orable Legislature. With Respect to the old Emissions, 3 nothing further is done for call ing them in, neither have We the least Expectation, that the Measures of Congress, relative thereto, will be either satisfactory, or what We conceive equitable to the State. Should the Money be called in by the Legislature, & transmitted to the continental Treasury at 75 for 1, in part Payment of the Requisitions of Congress, some Members who are opposed to an Act of Congress for this purpose have intimated to Us, that they should acquiesce in the Measure; & We are fully of Opinion, that it would finally be submitted to without much opposition. Indeed the Legislature, in this Case, would stand on firm & constitutional Ground; their proceedings would bear the Test of Reason & Justice; & the Opposition of Congress must be condemned by every judicious & impartial Mind. Neither will Massachusetts if We are rightly informed by the Delegates of New Hamshire & Rhode Island stand alone in this Matter, these States being in similar Circumstances. But if the State should be unsupported by others, ought it to be less firm in a De mand of Justice, or in Measures to obtain it? We think not. If her Claims are not just she can have no Desire of succeeding in them; but if they are just, the more they are opposed, the more equitable they will appear, & opposition itself must finally vanish before the stern & irresistable Majesty ofjustice. With Respect to the proceedings of Congress of September 25th, We disapproved of them altogether, & therefore we made no Mo tions for Amendments; otherwise We should not have passed many parts unnoticed, & particularly that wherein it is asserted that the “confederated States at the Commencement of the War, leagued to defend the violated Rights of Massachusetts” 4 when it is known to every person, conversant with the History of the Origin of the War, that the Attempt of the british Ministry to alter the Charter of Mas sachusetts, alarmed the other Governments, & that they leagued in Defence of the chartered Rights of all the Colonies, each having a particular Regard to its own Safety. You will please to present our best Respects to the honorable Legis lature, & beleive Us to be Gentlemen with perfect Esteem & Respect your most obedt. & most humble serts, E Gerry S. Holten P.S. Our Collegue Mr Higginson, if requested by the honble Court,
