October2, 1783 13 which gave me sensible pleasure, but what added to it, was your safe return home & tho’ you have not mentioned your health, yet may I not conclude it to be better. The polite reason you are pleased to assign for not writing to me first, wou’d apply very properly to a stranger when writing to a person in my place, but the same formalities are not necessary in the relation you stand in to me. The accts. I have of your dear little babe is very agreeable. Last week two of the sergeants that were concerned in the late mutiny, being under sentence of death, were carried to the place of execution, & every formality gone through with, except the final stroke, when a full & general pardon was proclaimed from Congress, not only for these two, but for all that were under sentences, for cor poral punishment, on acct, of said mutiny; it can be better concieved of by you than expressed by me, how the poor criminals feel upon so sudden a change in one moment as they supposed they were to lanch into eternity; and the next moment not only set at full liberty, but their offences forgiven; It has given me great satisfaction in being con cerned in shewing mercy to such persons as seemed to have little or no mercy for us. The account of your Journey & observations were very acceptable. I now recollect a letter I reed, from you some time since, & not being able to comply with your wishes, I inclosed it to Mrs. Holten; I have not the least doubt of your prudence & economy, but such are the times, that I am concerned for you, and I wish you not to live at any greater expence on acct, of your relation to me, than you otherwise wou’d; and I am deceived if you have not a wife, that will conform to what you think best: I flatter myself you will excuse the freedom I have now taken when I assure you it proceeds wholely from parental affection & concern; happiness doth not consist in the abundance of the things we possess in this life, but in virtue & religion added to a contented mind. By the leave of providence I expect to be at home toward the last of Novr. I took particular notice of Mrs. Websters “kindest duty” & you will please to present her in return my most sincere love & affection. Yours, &c. FC (PPIn: Americana Collection). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Luke Webster, a goldsmith of Newburyport, Mass., had married Holten’s daughter Sarah in 1781. Vital Records of Danvers, Massachusetts 2 vols. (Salem: Essex Institute, 1909-10), 2:140.
