October 6, 1783 21 Bland and myself have written letters by Dozens. True it is that my in tentions were to have left this place about the 15th of last month & to have reachd Virginia about this time but important dispatches having arrived from Europe and some matters of the first moment coming on about that time in Congress—I have on this as on many other occa sions Since I became a Public Man postponed my own conveniency and Interest to the Public Weal and undergone too weekes more mor tification, as well as risqued the danger of loosing the pleasure of See ing you & Fanny before you took yr. departure for Bermuda. I have now fixed tomorrow for our departure from this place 1 and having left our affairs somewhat deranged—I fear it will take me near a fort nights residence in Philadelphia before I can adjust them so as to set forward for Virginia, so that I fear it will be near the End of this month before I can have the happiness of presenting my self to my Friends in that Country—from whose bosom I believe I shall never go again. You tell me Fanny is visiting the Sick without telling me who, which leaves me somewhat uneasy, as you have left me in the Dark whether my Father or some of your Family or some other of my Friends may not be the objects of her attention on that score. Having but little time it is scarce worth while to enter deeply on the Politics of the present day especially as I hope so soon to have the pleasure of Chattering them over with you at Cawsons. Patsy is well and desires her best love. Bob has had for some time a severe fit of Sickness at tended with an Ugly Cough. I believe the remnant of the Meazles—he is getting better and I hope the Journey which he will be well able to take with us may be a means of restoring him to perfect health. My love to the boys & girls adieu and excuse me to Fanny for not writing by this post. God Bless you all, Theok. Bland P.S. This day comes on the important Question of fixing on the per manent Residence of Congress 2 —the Candidates—N. York, N Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, viz ^Esopus, N York, Eliza beth Town, Newark, Brunswick, Prince Town, Trenton, Philadelphia, German Town, Wilmington, Annapolis, George Town, Williamsburg. 3 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 In fact, Bland attended Congress on October 7 and may have set out for Philadel phia on that or the following day. See JCC, 25:654—58. In the accounts that he submitted to the Virginia treasurer he claimed a salary of $2,224 “for his attendance on travelling to and from Congress from the 27th day of Deer. 1782 to the first day of Octr. 1783 being 278." Bland Papers, ViHi. 2 See JCC, 25:646-54. 3 With this letter Bland also enclosed the following instructions for the rental of his property. “I will beg the favor of you to rent my Plantation at Farmindell (to a Tenant of good Character & responsible taking his bond for the Payment,) till the 1st ofjany. 1784.
