22 October 6,1783 “The terms are the fences to be kept up in good repair, the Houses to be return’d in as good repair as when received, the enclosures not to be alter d—no wood to be Cut but for firewood for the use of the tenant—the timothy lot to be enclosed so as to keep Hogs out—the taxes to be paid for the land—and the price of the rent fifty, if it can be got, or forty five—the lowest—forty. I can spare the Tenant, one or two tables, a bed & bedstead, some kitchen furniture, some Chairs, not the arm-Chairs but half a dozen Black Walnut chairs, these to be returnd when calld for by me. “If the Tenant chooses to undertake the Makeing of peach Brandy from the orchards at Cawsons he takeing the whole trouble & being at the whole expence I will give him one half of the Brandy for the other—this I will do to any other person. “N.B. The orchards at Farmindell go with the Plantation. The furniture abovemen- tiond at Mrs. Bollings & at Cawsons. Miss Nancy or my man Tom will deliver. “A Mr. Russel has applied to me to sell my Farm at the Church Hill which I intend to dispose of. I have asked him £1500. My intention was to have received the money £500 down in Specie or good Bills on Philadelphia—£500 in twelve months & five Hundred £ twelve months after the 2d payment to bear interest from the day of sale, in good Bonds with good Security for the two last payments. “But my ultimatum is 1250 Virginia Currency in Specie (gold & Silver—Seven hun dred & fifty down—& the residue in twelve months—the 2d to bear interest from the day of sale on good bonds & Secy. “If not sold I wd rent to a good Tenant—for fifteen £ the first year, on his makeing all necessary repairs to the Houses—no wood to be cut either for fences or firing. “Capt. Barret of the Fabius is to pay me some money which I shd. be obliged to you to receive & remit to me. Mr. Rose will furnish you with a Bill for that or any other Sum that may be paid you on my account.” James Duane to Mary Duane Princeton 6th Octobr 1783. Brother Robert, 1 my dearest Polly, stopped here for half an hour. I was then, as I now am on my duty in Congress which prevents me writ ing to you at large. I bless God that I continue in Health as it is my earnest prayer that you, our dear Children and Friends enjoy the same Happiness. I have sent a Collection of News papers for the amusement of our honord Father and the Family. I have a Letter from Duanesburgh informing that the great and un common Rains which have fallen this Summer and Autumn have pre vented the Repairs of my Mill; and that a melancholy accident has happened, Simson’s Wife having been shot by John Grenadeir and Hans Righter and that she died of the Wounds. I had a Regard for both these men who were strongly attached To our Setdement. If the matter is truly represented to me, I am apprehensive that these unfor tunate, rash and ferocious men will sustain a severe Fate! I have no time to add but that I am yours with my Blessing to our dear Children and my sincere Regards to all our Friends, my dearest Polly, Your ever affectionate & faithful Husband, Jas. Duane
