October 6, 1783 25 cline going, he will I hope remain with you through the Winter, for it is in my mind very important, that the Vote of Massachusetts should be right, if it is not, perhaps Congress may be again carried to Phila. or some other very great Evil ensue. I find many people here that have some knowledge of the french politics, they are also apprehensive of an undue influence from Our great Officers, & have some suspicion of there being an Oligarchy or Aristocracy very soon established, if great Care is not taken by the members from the northward. Finding this Idea a prevailing One & the impression strong, I have as yet said but little about that matter, except to a few Individuals, from an Idea that if it becomes sufficiently extensive & operative without my interference, it will be better than when it should appear to proceed from me. His Excellency has treated me very cooly & indeed rather Cavalierly, 3 he told me when I first met him, as I was going to the Council Chamber to pay him my respects, that he was happy he had by meeting me saved me the trouble of going there. This I considered as an intimation that he wished for no Conversation with me. I have therefore kept clear of him since & shall not put myself out of the way to show him any respect. The Court has agreed upon giving you Instructions as to the place of residence. I have not seen the Instructions but am told that they prefer some good situation in the Jersies, or upon the North River. I had much talk upon this Subject with some of the leading men & im pressed the necessity of Instructions not to restrain you but to govern others who may join you. Octr. 8th. I am informed since writing the above that the houses are like to agree upon an Impost to be collected by & carried to the Credit of the State. They may perhaps agree also upon some other Tax that shall equal with the Impost to Their Quota of the Int[eres]t on the Debt. I wish them to evidence to Congress a determination to furnish their full proportion of the necessary Funds & in every way to support the federal government agreeable to the Confederation, but their full expectation that the other States will discover the same dis position & make like Exertions, should be stated in the strongest & most pointed Terms, & I should like to have Them go so far as to as sure Congress that unless the other States can be brought to do Jus tice to this State & to give the strongest assurances that they will in fu ture do Their full share, a continuation of Our Exertions must not be expected. I expect that you will receive Instructions to urge for a new arrangement of the Treasury & on several other important points. A Committee is appointed to consider of a Cession of the vacant Territory & to propose our Claim to a large tract of Country which has been located by New York. I fancy they will cede all that Country which lies West of Hudsons River, & perhaps annex this condition,
