October 8, 1783 27 Samuel Huntington to Ebenezer Huntington Dear Sir, 1 Princeton Octor. 8th, 1783. I am this day favour’d, with your letter of the 3rd instant, and thank you for the intelligence you have been pleas’d to communicate. Congress have dertermind not to refer the matter of Commutation to the Several States to settle with their officers in the line of the Army. I beleive that the State have nothing to do in settling the amount you refer too, but rather suppose that all persons who acted under the late Jos’h Trumbull Esq. in his department as Commissary General must have their accounts settled in continental Way; whither any per sons are appointed to settle his accounts of Issues I am not at present able to inform. Be so kind as to Acquaint your Brother the General, 2 that I have Just receiv’d his letter, and if any thing can be obtain’d agreable to his wishes, it shall be sent to him or you at Camp without loss of time. I presume from his letter, He is now in the City at N. York. I have the Honour to be with due regards Your Humble Servt. Sam. Huntington Reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 7:324, from “MSS of the late William D. Ely of Provi dence." Addressed: “Col. Eben’r Huntington, Camp at West point.” । Ebenezer Huntington (1754-1834), of Norwich, Conn., was at this time a lieutenant colonel in the 2d Connecticut Regiment. See AHRa (July 1900): 702-3; and Franklin B. Dexter, Biographical Sketches of the Graduates of Yale College, 6 vols. (New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1885-1919), 3:565-67. See also these iMers, 13:138-39. 2 That is, Jedediah Huntington. John Francis Mercer to the Public [ante October 8, 1783] 1 The North American. 2 No. II. The object of the Author’s first address to his countrymen, was to develope those causes of civil dissention, which if not early checked, would put a period to their domestic tranquility; and the design of these sheets is to unfold their relative situation, in the character they have assumed, as one of the nations of the earth. He made no modest professions of ignorance or unworthiness: he considers them as too often the cloaks of vanity or hypocrisy; he laid no claim to superior in formation: that is the folly of a weak intellect; and above all he avoided solemn assertions of patriotism or disinterested zeal, for them he receives himself, with caution, if not suspicion. The only introduc tion he will now make of his person or character; the only clue he will
