October 8, 1783 29 tures, would render abortive any restrictions or regulations with which we might combat their attempts; for such being laid or devised by one State, the hopes of drawing the trade to another, would prevent their adoption, and perhaps produce an encouragement. These edicts of the British Council which openly disseminate those seeds of disunion which it will be the labor of their dispersed emis saries to cultivate—are framed on these principles, and with these ex pectations. They are to introduce into our harbours their manufac tures, unrestrained by regulations or imposts, to which that concertion among the States (they treat with ridicule and contempt) is, they well know, only competent—this whilst our produce is to find no entrance into British ports, but under a load of duties so enor mous and oppressed with restrictions so severe as to depreciate their value, or impede their sale—by confining advantages to one state, whilst they dart the keen force of resentment on another, they hope to rouse the jealousy of all. They cut off one of the most profitable branches of our commerce, cramp all and check that bold and adven- terous spirit of enterprize, which promised to carry the flag of these States to the remotest corners of the globe, and was (we fondly hope) a sure and happy presage of a rising Navy of America, that might pro tect her commerce from injury or insult. Presumptuous nation, secure in our disunion, thou hast ever been too eager, and thy premature violence has been the parent of our wis dom—catching at the glittering shadow—may the substance ever elude thy fangs. It is hard to say whether cruelty or injustice predominates in their policy; but it is easy to determine that should the attempt succeed, it would decide on our peace and prosperity. They have sounded the alarm bell of interest throughout Europe, and the event of this restric tion on our commerce, and insult on our national character, is waited for with impatience and with anxiety. The nations of the continent stand wavering on the brink of expectation—they cannot yet be per suaded that a rising people, whose unparaleled virtue and persever ance have drawn on them the blessings of the friends of freedom, and extorted admiration from the votaries of despotism, whose wisdom and heroism have been long the darling themes of panegyric, can the moment of success sacrifice to blind jealousy, and interested preju dices, the dear-bought fruits of their toils and sufferings. On the eve of laying every reciprocity at our feet, they now await the issue of this experiment: should the event be favourable for Britain, they must all pursue her example, least she should exclusively enjoy the superior and peculiar advantages, arising from her conduct. The die once cast, our fate would be irrevocably fixed, and the partition of our com merce would be but the prelude of those shackles which tyranny has invented as the sole security of injustice.
