42 October 9, 1783 the confederation in consequence thereof, see No. Il, 9 little or no hope remained of her ever making it more liberal & extensive. And should Virginia, following the late example of No. Carolina, have opend her land-office and refused to listen to conciliatory measures the consequences to the public could not readily be foreseen. The legislature of Virginia will soon convene, and it is expected con form their cession to the views of Congress. In case of her refusal differ ent measures must be adopted to obtain public justice on this subject. The delegates for No. Carolina have written to their State in the most urgent terms to induce them to make a cession of part of their western claims. What Georgia will do is altogether uncertain. But by accepting the cession of Virginia we shall have an additional voice for obtaining cession of other States. The paper No. 9 contains the cession of Virginia. 10 It has been earnestly contended that they should relinquish all their claims over the Alleghany mountain. In alleviation of the public disappointment, by failing in this point, it may be observed that the lands appropriated by Virginia to her line at all events must have been taken out of these western claims, that near 8000 inhabitants have planted themselves on the Southeast side of the Ohio at Kentucky and other Settlements whose claims would most probably have been allowed by the public, and formed another large deduction: And finally that the Indiana claims on account of which is contained in the paper No 10 would also have formed another large deduction; 11 so that on the whole the policy of contending with Virginia by coercive measures to relinquish her claim Southeast of the Ohio appeared at least questionable. The lands already ceded to the United States, should Virginia con form to the views of Congress, are estimated by the best informed to amount to upwards of five hundred thousand square miles. Allowing the State of Rhode-Island to strike one fiftieth our share would amount to ten thousand square miles; a territory of ten times the ex tent of the whole State. A proclamation has issued from Congress prohibiting all persons from purchasing or accepting cessions of land from the Indians with out the limits of the particular States, and declaring such purchases & cessions null & void; also prohibiting settlements on said lands. 12 And it is in contemplation to lay off a suitable district from the same for a new State, to be disposed of to satisfy the public engagements to the army and to form a fund in aid of public credit. On the fifth instant came on the great question respecting the per manent residence of Congress. After some debate it was agreed that each State in order should be in question. After separate votes were taken on each particular State it appeared that N. Jersey & Maryland stood highest, each having four voices in its favour.
