46 October 12,1783 James McHenry to Margaret Caldwell Sunday 12 Octbr. 1783 I added a few lines to my letter by post, under a very afflicting head ache. 1 To day I find myself greatly releived from this complaint, and imagine it proceeded from the debates of last week, which were long, renewed, continued, repeated, and more violent and acrimonious than any I have been witness to in Congress. They began on Monday and ended about 4 o’clock on yesterday. The subject was the perma nent and temporary residence of Congress. There is great truth, my Peggy, [in] the observation, that the value of any thing is not properly considered till after its loss. Philadelphia is now sensible of the additional weight she had in the councils of the union, by the residence of Congress; and how important this circum stance was to the whole State, by the fresh wealth it was daily bringing into it. She has used uncommon efforts to get Congress back, and vexed herself to the heart, that she did not exercise more forecast when she had them. Philadelphia had but one vote for the permanent residence and five for the temporary. Where Congress shall ultimately fix is still undetermined. Will my Peggy indulge me in a reflexion on this occasion. Now that I know we are mutually dear and necessary to each other, I shall not, like the foolish Philadelphians, part with so valuable an inmate as your affection; but cherish it with all possible care—call forth every passion to defend it against whatever would do it an injury, or disturb its repose—and endeavour by the tenderest returns to make its resi dence with me perpetual. Miss Yard will be entrusted with this letter under the usual precau tion. She is—but 1 must stop telling you what she is—Doctor Williamson has made his appearance, and we have much to talk over respecting the business of the week. In two minutes, I perceive by his approaches, he would have his nose within two inches of this letter. I shall [pr] event him however, by bidding my [de]ar Peggy adieu. James McHenry Monday. I cannot help communicating an incident that happened this morning. As I was was looking at your letter I perceived on the wafer a little circle that appeared to have been made by the edge of your thimble. You will laugh perhaps, when I tell you, that the discov ery of this little circle gave me more pleasure than I could have re ceived from a view of the impression of the finest seal in the world. I instantly associated with the thimble that made it, the finger it had often embraced, and I kissed the little circular impression, as I would have kissed the little hand to which the thimble belonged. Good morning my Peggy. J.McH.
