October 13, 1783 49 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:373-75 i See JCC, 25:665. 2 JCC, 25:667-68. S See, for example, James McHenry’s postscript to Maryland Delegates to William Paca, October 11, 1783. 4 See JCC, 25:671-72. 5 That is, Madison. 6 Arthur Lee and Theodorick Bland. At about this time Madison also prepared the following notes summarizing argu ments for and against the various sites advocated for the permanent and temporary seats of Congress during the debates of October 6-11, which he passed on to Thomas Jefferson, probably at the end of the month when Jefferson was in Philadelphia en route to Princeton. Jefferson appears to have used part of the information contained therein in his November 11 letter to Gov. Benjamin Harrison. Permanent seat of Congress North River—recommended for the permanent seat of Congs, chiefly by its security against foreign danger. Falls of Potowmac—By 1. geographical centrality. 2. proximity to western Country al ready ceded. 3. inducement to further Cessions from N.C. S.C. & Georgia. 4. remote ness from the influence of any overgrown commercial city. Falls of Delaware—By 1. centrality with regard to number of inhabitants. 2. centrality as to no. of States & of Delegates. 3. facility of obtaining intelligence from sea. Temporary seat of Congress Princeton. In favor of it, 1. its neighbourhood to the Permanent [se]at, 2. inconve- niency of a removal. 3. beneficial effect of a frug[al] situation of Congs, on their pop ularity throughout the States. 4. the risque in case of removal from Princeton of re turning under the commercial & corrupt influence of Philada. Against it. 1. unfitness for transacting the public business. 2. deficiency of accomodation, exposing the at tending members to the danger of indignities & extortions, discouraging perhaps the fitest men from undertaking the service & amounting to a prohibition of such as had families from which they would not part. Trenton. Argts. in favor & agst. it similar to those respecting Princeton. It was particu larly remarked that when the option lay with the President & committee between Trenton & Princeton the latter was preferred as least unfit to receive Congs, on their removal from Philada. Philada. In favor of it. 1. its unrivalled conveniency for transacting the public business, & accomodating Congress. 2. its being the only place where all the public offices, par ticularly that of Finance could be kept under the inspection & controul of & proper intercourse with Congs. 3. its conveniency for F. Ministers, to which, casteris paribus, some regard would be expected. 4. the circumstances which produced a removal from Philada. which rendered a return as soon as the insult had been expiated, expe dient for supporting in the eyes of foreign nations the appearance of internal har mony, and preventing an appearance of resentment in Congs, agst. the State of Pa. or City of Philada. an appearance which was very much strengthened by some of their proceedings at Princeton—particularly by an unnecessary & irregular declaration not to return to Pha. In addition to these overt reasons, it was concluded by sundry of the members who were most anxious to fix Congs, permanently at the falls of the Potow mac that a temporary residence in Philada. would be most likely to prepare a suffi cient number of votes for that place in preference to the Falls of Delaware, and to produce a reconsideration of the vote in favor of the latter. Agst. Philada. were alledged. 1. the difficulty & uncertainty of getting away from it at the time limited. 2. the influence of a large commercial & wealthy city on the public Councils. In addi tion to these objections, the hatred agst. Mr. M. and hope of accelerating his final resi[gna]tion were latent motives with some, as perhaps envy of the prosperity] of
