50 October 13, 1783 Philada. and dislike of the support of Pa to obnoxious recomendations of Congs, were with others. Annapolis. In favor of it. 1st. its capacity for accomodating Congs, and its conveniences for the public business. 2. the soothing tendency of so Southern a position on the temper of the S. States. Agst. it, 1st. the preposterousness of taking a temporary sta tion so distant from the permanent seat fixed on, especially as better accomodations were to be passed by at Philada. which was less than 4/5ths of the distance from the Permanent Seat. 2d. the peculiar force such a step would give to the charge agst. Congs, of being swayed by improper motives. Besides these considerations it was the opinion of some that a removal of Congs, to Annapolis would inspire Maryland with hopes that wd. prevent a cooperation in favor of George town, & favor the commerce of that State at the expence of Virginia. Jefferson Papers, DLC. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:379-80. 8 See Thomas FitzSimons to Gouverneur Morris, October 11, 1783, note 1. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Monday Octr. 13. 1783 Saturday was spent in fruitless debates about the temporary resi dence. The unaccommodating spirit of some And the jealousy nay I may say the deep rooted hatred which others bear to the city of Philadelphia were displayed in the strongest colours. You will naturally ask to what cause can this be attributed. For my own part I am at a loss to determine. Much was said of the influence which that city had on the proceedings & acts of Congress. And yet this was disavowed by every man. Those who asserted it in the strongest terms were careful at the same time to intimate that it neither had nor could have any operation on them, and those that denyed the influence, & some of them had long been members of & given the closest attendance to the business of Congress, declared they had never seen any symptoms of such influence. They considered the insinuation as dishonorable & called upon the assertors of this influence to produce a single in stance of it. After repeated calls Mr. Gerry undertook in a former day’s debate to point out particular instances. But those he produced were so contemptible, so ill grounded & baseless, as only to raise in dignation and to shew that there was no foundation for the suspicion, that it was either imaginary or mere pretence. One of the instances he produced was in the conduct of Mr. Bingham while he was agent in Martineque. A Boston Privateer had at an early period of the war & before France acknowledged the independence of America, captured a vessel in the west-Indies & carried his prize into Martineque. Com plaint of this was made to the governor by the English, And as the gov ernor wished to favour the Americans he evaded the complaint by or dering the vessel & cargo to be sold & the proceeds to [be] deposited in the hands of an Agent, till the matter could be enquired into. The Agent he fixed upon was Mr. Bingham, who appeared there only in
