October 13,1783 51 the character of a merchant & who employed the proceeds for the public service in forwarding military stores for the use of our Army, at the same time informing Congress of his proceedings that they might take measures to reimburse him, if the Money should be ordered to be paid to the original owners or to satisfy the captors if it should be adjudged to them. After the treaty with France the captors instituted a suit against Bingham for the money. Bingham applied to Congress and Congress were so well satisfied with his conduct that they ordered the suit to be discontinued & took the matter upon themselves. 1 The other influence was an affair which not long since happened near New Orleans. A privateer was fitted out at Boston to cruize off the mouth of the Mississippi. She there captured a ship that was not only under the protection of a flag, but under that of a Spanish fort and in possession of a Spanish pilot sent out to conduct her in. There were sundry circumstances attending the capture, highly derogatory to the honor of the Spanish flag and contrary to the laws of nations and these were aggravated by a flagrant breach of the laws of hospitality. The prize nevertheless being carried to Boston & libelled was con demned in the court of Admiralty, but on an appeal the judgment was reversed and thereupon Congress recommended it to the state of Massachusetts to take measures for punishing two of those concerned in the capture for the insult offered to the Spanish flag & the violation of the laws of neutrality. Though neither of the judges of the court of appeals who reversed the sentence were inhabitants of Pensylvania, yet this was quoted as an instance of the influence of Philada. on pub lic measures. 2 On Saturday Mr. Lee proceeded to quote the appoint ment of Mr. Morris & the powers vested in him as an instance of that influence. But though he did not convince any by this instance he confirmed the opinion that private pique & resentment were his gov erning principles. The motion that was under debate on Saturday was to remove to Annapolis. Howell declared that rather than go to Philadelphia, if the vote for Annapolis was lost, he would vote for Williamsburg or Charlestown nay even for Savannah in Georgia— That a Vote for Philadelphia was a high insult to the eastern states and this assertion passed uncontradicted by any member from those states, nay they seemed to confirm it by their unanimous vote to pass by Philadelphia & reside in Annapolis till next June. However the quest- tion was not carried. The debates were continued till after 4 P.M. and the house broke up in such very bad humour that I had some appre hensions they would not meet again. However upon recollection the members determined to continue in town, & try what can be done this morning. Yesterday I took a ride to Trenton to view the banks of the river. There is a delightful Spot on the Pensylvania side for a small town. It commands a very extensive & beautiful prospect both up & down the river & over the Jersey & has many natural advantages; but
