October 14, 1783 57 Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah, Tuesday Oct 14 1783 I received your letter of the 12 by the Stage and was much pleased to hear of your safe arrival. You cannot be more uneasy than I am at our being separated. If the submitting to these inconveniences an swered any good purpose, or if it were necessary for promoting the interest or happiness of our country I could more easily acquiesce. But I confess my situation is the more irksome as I plainly see that the measures which led to it and the spirit and temper which con tinue it evidently tend to a dissolution of the Union of these states and will if I am not greatly mistaken involve our country in new calamities. It cannot admit of a doubt that the peace, happiness and prosperity of these new and rising republics depend greatly on a close and intimate Union. And yet the temper, disposition and views of the inhabitants are so discordant, that I have serious apprehen sions they will not be long kept together & that the predictions of our enemies will but too soon be verified in the dissolution of our Confederacy. Whether this is the intention of some men now in Congress or whether their conduct is guided by the prevailing senti ments of the states they represent or actuated by private motives I will not undertake to say. But this I will venture to assert particularly with regard to Howell, that were he in the pay of G. Britain I do not know any line of conduct he could pursue other than what he has done to answer his purpose and promote the designs of his employ ers. This you will say is harsh. It is so and I hope I may be mistaken. But the tenor of his conduct is so uniform, the means he uses to ac complish his purposes so unjustifiable and unrestrained by truth, and those purposes, in my opinion, so opposite to the interest, honor and dignity of the Union, that I cannot reconcile them with the true principles of policy and patriotism. I might say the same of some others who have co-operated with him; but they discover such strong traits of envy, & personal resentment that these may in some degree account for their conduct. Yesterday we had nine states on the floor, and to day I am informed we may expect eleven. A motion was made by Mr Mercer and sec onded by Mr Lee to adjourn to Williamsburg. This I believe was made without any expectation of being carried. For an amendment, which was offered to shew that the adjournment was only for a temporary residence, was negatived by the mover and that being lost the eastern states could not give their assent & therefore the motion for Williams burg was lost. 1 I am told it is in contemplation with some of the east ern states to propose a coalition with the southern and reconsider the vote for fixing the permanent residence near the falls of Delaware.
