58 October 14, 1783 And this being carried, either to fix the permanent residence at or near Georgetown on Potomack, or to establish two places for the meeting of Congress, one in or near the eastern states and the other in one of the southern states. This if carried will shew such a pointed resentment against Pensylvania and will so disoblige New Jersey, that 1 am confident it will throw them out of the Union. And the conse quence will be that this Continent will be split into three divisions, the Eastern, middle & Southern. And all things considered I do not know but this may be for the general good & the best that can [be] done for the interest and happiness of the whole, provided the several districts confederate together for the purpose of general defence. It seems to be the order of providence that this world should be divided into a number of seperate & distinct governments. Adieu my dear Hannah, take care of your health and rest assured of the unfeigned affection of your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). i See JCC, 25:675-76. Thomas FitzSimons to Nathanael Greene Sir Philada. 15 Octr. 1783 The Inclosed Letter was given to me by the secy at Warr & when I Inclose it I take the Liberty of Mentioning to you, a Circumstance which happened in Congress respecting you & Which Created a little delay in a business that all seemed disposed to forward. A Committee had reported that two field Ps of Brass Ordinance should be pre sented you With the other testimonys intended for your Eminent Ser vices & it was suggested by a Member that if you had taken any such during yr Command to the Southwd the Complimt would be greater if it was so Expressed—but Neither the Members present or the Secy at Warr Could Inform Congress whether any brass field pieces were taken in that Country, & it was thot best to Let the Resolution Lay till the Circumstance was Inquired into. You will perceive the design is to make the Testimony as honorable as possible & if you will please to In form the Chairman of that Committee (Mr Duane) how that Matter is, the Resolution will be Immy passed. 1 With Great respect I am, sir, yr Mo hble servt, Thos FitzSimons RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 For Congress’ adoption of this committee’s recommendations, see James Duane to Greene, October 20, note. As the resolution adopted specified the award of “field ord-
