October 15, 1783 59 nance,” it would appear that no “brass field pieces” had been taken by Greene in the Carolinas. JCC, 25:701. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir Princeton 15th October 1783. I enclose extracts of Letters from Mr Adams relative to trade, 1 and am to acquaint your Honr. that I have not been able to obtain any de termination on the subject of the Loan Office Certificates, 2 neither do I think any step will be taken in this matter by Congress. The objec tions are, that complying with the request will derange the System of Finance and therefore ought not to be granted. I am not alone how ever, in being of a different opinion, the Massachusetts and Rhod Is land delegates and some other States are for the Measure. In my opin ion, if the State cannot find a method for dividing the collection by those certificates the collecting the whole tax for the current Year will be very difficult & burthensome; I therefore think it would be proper to direct the Loan Officer to liquidate all certificates issued from the Office in New Hampshire and held by the citizens thereof & to issue certificates for the Interest, this measure, those who oppose the re quest from [the] State I have the Honr. to represent, say she is fully authorized to take. Congress have in contemplation a reduction of the National ex- pences, by lessening the civil List, disbanding part of the Army, & re ducing the Salaries of the public Officers, as the expenses of living are lessen’d. They have also before them a report for making peace with the Indians, and insisting on their making sessions of some part of the Lands they claim, to compensate for the injuries they have done the United States since the War. The subject of laying out & arranging a New State in the Western territory, for satisfying the Army, and dis charging the public debts, is likewise under consideration & in some forwardness. The resolution of Congress fixing the place of residence on the Delaware, at, or near the falls above Trenton, is not satisfactory to the Southern States. The place of temporary residence hath been much agitated, Motions for Trenton, Philadelphia, Wilmington, Anapolis and Williamsburgh have been negatived; at present the Question of temporary residence sleeps. While these important matters are depending it is very unfortunate that New Hampr. hath not her Vote. I must desire the State to make me soon, some further advance in Money or Bills; it being probable I shall be destitute of Cash, by the time it can be forwarded to me. I have the Honr. to be with great respect and esteem, your Honours very Humble & most obedient Servt Abiel Foster
