68 October 16, 1783 for a federal Town; & the Right of Soil, & an exclusive or such other Ju risdiction as Congress may direct shall be vested in the united States. 1 We inclose the proceedings of Congress for negotiating a Peace with the Indians. 2 We have sent the Reports as they were originally made & printed for Consideration, 3 having struck out what was re jected by Congress, & added the amendments so as to compare with the Journals. We objected to the paragraph in the first part of the re port, under the Word “Seventhly,” & had it negatived with the Yeas & Nays on the Journals, 4 because it appeared to Us to be calculated to strengthen the Claim of New York & affect that of Massachusetts to the western Territory. Indeed it was declared in Congress that the State of Massachusetts had never announced their Claim before men tioned, to the State of New York; this Declaration was made by a Dele gate of the State last mentioned, 5 but We were not authorized to con tradict it, neither did We conceive it of much Consequence, as We presumed the honorable Legislature would be soon prepared not only to make, but to support a Claim to the Lands granted at Onondaga & Cayuga by the State of New York, as well as to other por tions of the Western Territory. Having in our Letters of the 11th of Sepr. & 1st Instant to the Com mittee of the hona. Court, made the necessary Communications re specting their applications to Congress on the Subjects of half pay, Commutation, old Emissions & the civil List, We shall not add any thing on those Subjects & have the Honor to be Gentlemen, with the highest Respect for the General Court & yourselves, your most obedt &[...] servan[ts] [E. Gerry] 6 S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In the hand of Elbridge Gerry and addressed by him: “Honble Samuel Adamfs] Esqr president of the Sen [ate] & the Honble Tristram Dalton Esqr Speaker of the House of Representatives of Massachusetts.” i See JCC, 25:547-60. 2 For these October 15 proceedings, see JCC, 25:680-95. 3 For the two reports upon which these proceedings were based, see JCC, 25:989. 4 Secretary Thomson recorded no “Yeas & Nays” on this issue, but for the “negatived” paragraph, see JCC, 25:687-88, 692. 5 Cf. the following entry at note 2. 6 Gerry’s signature has been torn from the manuscript. Whether Samuel Osgood’s signature was also on the piece of paper removed cannot be positively asserted. He did not sign the Massachusetts delegates’ letter to the Assembly of October 1; his signature follows that of Holten’s on their letter of the 23d. New York Delegates to George Clinton Dear Sir, Princeton, October 16, 1783. We should before this Time have transmitted to Your Excellency the
