October 16, 1783 69 material Parts of the Communications Congress have lately received from the Ministers of the United States at Paris, had they not been under an Injunction of Secrecy till lately, on Account of their being under a Commitment. In their joint Letter of the 16th [i.e., 18th] of July the preliminary Articles and their Reasons for concluding them are explained. 1 They observe that the British Minister were very un willing to make use of any Terms that might give uneasiness to the refugee Tories, and that the words for restoring the Property of real british Subjects were well understood & apertained between them not to mean or comprehend American Refugees. Mr. Fitzherbert and Mr. Oswell, they say, know this to have been the Case & will readily confess and admit it. They observe it was a more delicate mode of excluding the Refugees and making a proper Distinction between them & the subjects of Britain whose only particular Interest in America consisted in holding Lands & Property. They think the 6th Article declaring that no future Confiscation should be made & ought to have fixed the Time with greater Cer tainty, and the most fair Construction is, that it relates to the Date of the Cessation of Hostilities, as, they say, “That is the Time when Peace in fact took Place in consequence of prior informal tho’ binding Con tracts to terminate the war.” They consider the definitive Treaties as only giving the Dress of Form to those Contracts and not as constituting the Obligation of them: they observe that had the Cessation of Hostilities been the Ef fect of a Truce and consequently nothing more than a temporary sus pension of War another Construction would have been the right one. They say Mr. Heartley had officially assured them that positive Orders for the Evacuation of New York had been dispatched, and that no avoidable Delay would retard that Event; that had they proposed to fix a Time for it, the British Ministry would have contended that it should be a Time posterior to the Date of the definitive Treaty and would probably have been more disadvantageous to us than as that Article now stands. They are surprised to hear that any Doubts have arisen in America respecting the Time when the Cessation of Hostilities took Place there and say, “It most certainly took place at the Expiration of one month after the Date of that Declaration in all Parts of the World whether Land or Sea that lay north of the Latitude of the Canaries. The Ships afterwards taken from us in the more northwardly Lati tudes ought to be reclaimed” and given up, & say, they shall apply to Mr. Heartley, on this Subject, and also on that of the Transportation of Negroes from New York contrary to the Words and Intention of the provisional Articles. At present there is no Probability of a commercial Treaty’s being agreed on between the United States and Great Britain. The Powers engaged in the late War have agreed to sign the definitive Treaty to gether, which has hitherto been principally delayed on account of the
