70 October 16, 1783 United States, France & Spain having been ready to sign for some Time past. It is not now expected that our Ministers can obtain any other beneficial Articles than those contained in the preliminary Treaty & that in so many words. The definitive will now probably be soon concluded. Six or Seven different Powers in Europe have signi fied to our Ministers their Desire of entering into commercial Treaties with the United States. Congress have finally concluded that their Place of Residence shall be near the Falls of Trenton. We used our Endeavours to draw the Attention of Congress to the State of New York agreably to the Views of the Legislature expressed in their Resolves at their last meeting, but we found them vain; Connecticut being the only State from which we received any support. Thus disappointed we thought it our Duty to give our Suffrage for the Place now agreed on in pref erence to another much more remote and inconvenient, George Town on the Potomac. The Southern States are still much dissatisfied that the federal Town is not more South, holding up the Idea of Centrality as the only just Rule of determination, Hence they supported the Ideas of Potow- mac & complain of being overborn by the weight of States & not the Force of Justice. Prince town is found on Experience to be incapable of accomodating Congress alone exclusive of our public officers and foreign Ministers a Temporary Residence is, therefore, to be fixed upon for the Winter Season, and Trenton to be put in order for the Reception of Congress in the Spring. We were not a little surprised lately to hear the Delegates for the Massachusetts seriously mention on the floor of Congress the Claim of that State to the western Lands in the state of New York, and declare they had Instructions from their State on every Occasion to assert that Claim, and prevent any Act of Congress from passing which might be construed in favour of the Title of New York in preference to that of the Massachusetts. 2 There is no doubt but they will embarrass the Measures our state may judge expedient, where the Interposition of Congress is necessary either in making Peace with the Indians or securing our Frontiers. As soon as an Opportunity presents it will be the Interest of the State to put an End to their Claims by commencing a Suit agreably to the Arti cles of the Confederation; and in the mean time to use the most vigor ous Efforts for settling this Country under their Authority, for no re spect ought to be paid to a State Pretention which has laid dormant more than One Hundred & fifty Years. No answer has been given to Sir Guy Carleton’s Letter published in the Philadelphia Newspapers (by his direction as is supposed.) 3 If the matter of that Letter had not been exceptionable, nor the Terms made use of disrespectful, Congress would not have readily entered
