October 16, 1783 71 into a Correspondence with him. A Report has been made in Conse quence of that Communication which has for a long Time lain on the Table; it respects the Publication of the Ratification of the preliminary Articles by the United States, but so many difficulties have arisen on this Subject, that the Proclamation is yet delayed. 4 By the last Accounts from New York, which appear to come from good Authority there is reason to believe the Evacuation of that City will take place sometime the next month. Sir Guy Carlton has sent a verbal message to our Commander in Chief, by Mr. Parker that his Troops will embark in all the month of November. 5 We have the Honour to be with the utmost Respect, Sir, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & very humble Servants. Jas. Duane. Ezra L’Hommedieu. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:259-63. 1 See Ezra L’Hommedieu to Clinton, September 25, 1783, note 3. 2 Cf. the preceding entry at note 5. 3 Guy Carleton’s August 17 letter to President Boudinot complaining of the violence of Americans against loyalist refugees, in violation of the fifth article of the peace treaty, was printed in the September 10 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. The letter is in PCC, item 52, fols. 217-23. 4 See Elias Boudinot to the States, October 29, 1783. 5 Washington also explained Daniel Parker’s verbal communication of Carleton’s evacuation plans directly to Governor Clinton in a letter of October 23, for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 27:204-5. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Thursday Oct 16. 1783 I have not received a line from you since that by the stage on Mon day. I hope however you are well. Nothing is yet done with regard to the temporary residence and I begin to be afraid we shall be tied down for the winter to this uncomfortable village, notwithstanding eight states have resolved “that for the more convenient transaction of the business of the United States and accommodation of Congress it is expedient for them to adjourn from their present residence.” 1 Yester day for the first time since their removal from Philadelphia they seri ously entered upon the business of the Continent and finished a very important matter relative to Indian Affairs. 2 But notwithstanding this I have little hopes of seeing the affairs of the Union in a happy train. You will see in the Packet of the 14th, under the Providence head, an extract of a letter from an American Minister dated Passy June 28 1783. The design of the Correspondent who furnished the extract is evidently to delude his constituents 3 and to induce a belief that our
