80 October 19, 1783 properly. The deciding or not deciding on the motion of the member from Massachusetts could have no effect upon the choice of either of these modes. If it was intended, upon carrying the vote for fixing an other federal town on Potomack, to adjourn Congress to Annapolis, Members must be sensible that the distance of that place and the shortness of time would put it out of the power of this Congress to re ceive the Dutch minister. And when the Congress of the United states which is next to assemble will be able to receive him is very uncertain. The times of a great number of members expire with the present month. New Delegates are to be chosen, & some of the states are in such a situation that their legislatures cannot soon be convened. So that there is little prospect of a new Congress meeting for this or any other business till December. All these arguments passed unanswered, saving only that it was observed, that the presence or absence of Pen- sylvania was of no importance in the present case. The vote could & would be carried if it was present notwithstanding a negative; that no tice was given of the motion intended to be made for a reconsidera tion, the member for Pensylvania heard it and if he thought the vote of his state of importance he might have tarried; other gentlemen as well as he had business which required them to be absent and their tarrying here was very inconvenient. The question therefore was in sisted on. When it was about to be put, the delegates for New Jersey in right of their state, agreeably to the rules of the house, required that the determination thereof should be put off till Monday next. And thus that matter now Stands. 2 Congress yesterday passed two procla mations, one for setting apart the second thursday in December next as a day of public thanks giving, and the other for disbanding all that part of the Army which had been furloughed, 3 so that there now re mains in the service of the United states only those that are at West Point & the few at Philada. which by the bye have no business there, and I am astonished the state remains silent on that subject. But I am wandering from my subject. You see, my dear, what it is to have a politician for a husband. Instead of love letters you are only to be entertained with business or politics. I confess my mind has been lately much agitated and I have deliberated very seriously on my fu ture plan of life. My comfort and happiness greatly depends upon being with you. I have devoted so much of my life to, and spent so many anxious hours, or rather years, in the public service without emolument, that I thought I might upon the return of peace and the attainment of those blessings for which we contended, continue to enjoy the profits arising from my Office, especially as the office is nec essary and I flatter myself I should not be unserviceable to my country in the exercise of it. Nevertheless rather than be separated from you I would relinquish it, as I can now do it with honor and the cause of America will suffer no detriment, and I can do it with the less regret,
