October 21,1783 85 Adjournment (for a Period not less than six nor more than twelve Months) to Annapolis, having passed the House this Morning, 1 I beg the Favour of you to inform me whether you mean to repair to An napolis, and at what Time. The Adjournment is from the twelfth of next Month to the twenty sixth. I beg also to know whether you mean to visit Princeton again. I take the Liberty of making these Inquiries that I may act upon your Information. 2 I am Sir, Your most obedient Servant, R. Beresford [RS.] A Letter sent to Mrs Cannon in 4th Street between Arch and Race Streets, will reach me. My Servant leaves Town immediately. As my Friend Capt. Parsons will take some Steps for me in Consequence of your Resolution I request you will communicate it to him. RC (PSC: C. F. Jenkins Autograph Collection). Addressed: “To The Honorable Jacob Read Esqr. Favd. by the Honorable Mr. Izard.” i For this “Question,” see Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, this date, note 1. 2 Read, who had apparently been in Philadelphia the past week, endorsed this let ter “Answered fully immediately,” but his reply has not been found. Beresford appar ently left Princeton the following day, for South Carolina was not represented on the 22nd, and he and Read did not attend Congress again until October 30. Ralph Izard, who delivered this letter to Read, last attended Congress this day. See JCC, 25:713, 719, 752, 765. James Duane to William Malcom Dear Sir Princeton 21st Octobr. 1783. I am sorry to find my Letter embarrassed you. 1 I meant to say that altho’ I was informed by Mr Thompson that your Memorial complain ing of the Injustice or hardship done to you by the board of war was in the Office at Philadelphia, Yet that I first obtained an order from Congress for referring your Claims to the Secretary at war—General Lincoln—to be examined and reported upon by him. It appeared to me that you wished General Lincoln to examine and report upon your Case: For this Reason I mentioned the probability of a Change in the Department which he exercised in the Course of the present month, lest you might be disappointed. I am with Sentiments of Re gard, Dear Sir Your most Obedt Servt, Jas. Duane RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 For the context of this letter, see Duane to Malcom, September 18, 1783.
