yu October 22, 1783 Resolved that the place on the Delaware for erecting buildings for the use of Congress be near the falls. Whereas 3 there is reason to expect that the providing buildings for the alternate residance of Congress in two places will be productive of the most salutary effects by securing the mutual confidence and affec tion of the States. Resolved 4 that buildings be likewise erected for the use of Congress at or near the lower falls of Potowmac or Georgetown, pro vided a suitable district on the banks of the river can be produced for a federal town and the right of soil and an exclusive jurisdiction or such other as Congress may direct shall be vested in the United States and that until the buildings to be erected on the banks of the Delaware and Potowmac shall be prepared for the reception of Congress their residence shall be alternately at equal periods of not more than one year and not less than six months in Trenton and An napolis, and the president is hereby authorised and directed to ad journ Congress on the 12th day of november next to meet at Annapo lis on the twenty sixth of the same month for the dispatch of public business. Philadelphia 28th Octr. 1783. After writing this letter I was under the necessity of coming to this City, and I determined not to Close the let ter till I should be able to send you the papers of this day. Give my re spectful Complimts. to our Friends and believe me Your most obt. and most humble Servt. Benjamin Hawkins RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). Addressed: ‘John Gray Blount esquire.” 1 Hawkins penned this letter beneath the following “Extract of a letter [of December 20, 1782] from Casper Voght & Co. of Hamburgh to the President of Congress,” recom mending the city’s manufactures to the attention of Americans. Excited more by a patriotic Zeal than Self-Interest, we humbly beg leave to remind you of the superior advantages peculiar to Germany it being, in the opinion of very many great and learned men, who have no further Interest in the revolution of Trade, than a sincere wish for the good of the whole, of all places in Europe, That which best promises mutual Benefit from the conformity of its Climate with yours; having all the manufactures proper for your Trade: particularly those of the first necessity. “Hamburg a neutral, free and imperial City, happily situated upon the River Elbe, about eighty english miles from the Sea, is considered as the Key to all Germany, and the general magazine of all the northern productions. The Harbour is continually full of Ships from almost every nation, and so very safe and commodious, that the greatest can anchor close to the Keys. It is also esteemed one of the richest and most flourishing Cities in Europe: there being none which have such an universal Trade in the products of America, and both the Indies; nor so well stored with all the manufactures indispens ably necessary to the North Americans; who were formerly oblidged to receive them on very unprofitable Terms from England. In this Town therefore, the American Merchant can be certain of meeting the best Market, both for buying and selling.” It is not clear when this letter was received, but it was referred on July 23, 1783, to the committee of the week, whose recommendation that it “lie on the table” was ap-
