92 October 22, 1783 Arthur Lee to John Fitzgerald Dear Sir, 1 Princeton, Oct 22d 1783 May I beg the favor of you to give warning in your City of the Notes the Marks &c of which are enclosed in a letter to Mr. Mason 2 & then forward the letter & List to him immediately. Congress have resolved to adjourn to Annapolis on the 26 Novr for one year, & to have Buildings erected for them at or near the falls of Potomac, where they are to reside half their time. I have the honor to be with great esteem, Sir yr m. o. servt, A. Lee Tr (Robert Slate, Jr., Alexandria, Va., 1972). 1 For the recipient’s identity, see Alexander Hamilton to Fitzgerald, June 10, 1783, note 1. 2 Not found. James McHenry to Alexander Hamilton Dear Hamilton. Princeton 22 Octbr. 1783. I obey you. The homilies you delivered in Congress are still recol lected with pleasure. The impressions they made are in favor of your integrity and no one but believes you a man of honor and republican principles. Were you ten years older and twenty thousand pounds richer, there is no doubt but that you might obtain the suffrages of Congress for the highest office in their gift. You are supposed to pos sess various knowlege, useful—substantial—and ornamental. Your very grave and your cautious—your men who measure others by the standard of their own creeping politics think you sometimes intem perate, but seldom visionary, and that were you to pursue your object with as much cold perseverance as you do with ardor and argument you would become irresistable. In a word, if you could submit to spend a whole life in dissecting a fly you would be in their opinion one of the greatest men in the world. Bold designs—measures calcu lated for their rapid execution—a wisdom that would convince from its own weight—a project that would surprise the people into greater happiness, without giving them an opportunity to view it and reject it, are not adapted to a council composed of discordant elements, or a people who have thirteen heads each of which pay superstitious ado ration to inferior divinities. I have been deterred from day to day from sending you the extract you desire by a proclamation on the subject which I expected would have passed. It is still in dubio. 1 I have reported on Fleury’s case on the principle you recommend. 2 I fear his half pay will not be granted.
