98 October 23, 1783 would have held all I had to say & I have run it over With many Inter ruptions. I am not quite satisfyed with a sentimt that Duane Expressed of me to You—be so good to tell him If I am proud, Congress has made me so. I allways thot myself Indifferently honest but I certainly have been Led to think myself honester than many people there & If I have not allways borne with their Knavery & folly so well as I ought he must Impute it to my Little Knowledge of public Assemblys. I would allways however be glad to distinguish, & If I Ever said any thing offen sive to him, it was not Intentional for Except the Little Maneuvrs abt preventg the return of Congress to this place I have always thot him Candid & Very Usefull. Tell my friend Carroll his bill is Accepted & that the Mony shall be at his disposall when he thinks proper. Excuse this Scrawl & believe me Yrs &c. Thos. FitzSimons RC (PHi: Provincial Delegates Collection). Endorsed by Peters: “1783, Mr Fitzsimmons, Business in Congress.” 1 It is clear from FitzSimons’ references in this letter to the lodgings of the Dutch Min ister van Berckel at the City Tavern and to the results of the recent elections for repre sentatives to the Pennsylvania Assembly, that the “Thursday Eveng.” on which this letter was written could only have been October 23, 1783. See notes four and five below. FitzSi mons had just returned to Philadelphia, and Peters had remained with his colleagues John Montgomery and James Wilson in Princeton. Cf. Burnett, letters, 7:369-70. 2 See Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare, September 3, 1783, note 2. 3 For the identity of this enclosure, see PCC, item 69, 2:469-72; and Robert Morris’ Report to Congress, November 5, 1783, note 1, in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming). 4 That is, Benjamin Stelle, for whom see David Howell to Nicholas Brown, July 30, 1783, note 10. 5 See Elias Boudinot to Robert R. Livingston, this date. 6 The results of the elections for representatives to the Pennsylvania Assembly were announced in the October 18 issues of the Pennsylvania Journal and Pennsylvania Packet and the October 22 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. 1 That is, FitzSimons’ and Peters’ colleague John Montgomery, and former Pennsylvania delegate Joseph Montgomery. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir. Princeton 23d October 1783. I enclose a Copy of a Resolution of Congress for a second foederal Town on the Potomack, at or near George Town; and for adjourning Congress to meet at Anapolis, on the twenty sixth of November next. 1 The reasons of this resolution were, the uneasiness of the southern Del egates at fixing the residence on the Delaware, at, or near the falls above Trenton; and the apprehensions of the Northern States, that no other measures would prove effectual to prevent the return of Congress to Philadelphia, for a temporary residence.
