October 23, 1783 99 An authenticated Copy of the provisional Articles, and of the ratifi cation of the same by Congress, is ordred to be transmitted to the re spective States: 2 the desire is, that they may take no measures inconsis tent with those Articles & which would render the fulfilment thereof impracticable. The Articles themselves do not seem sufficiently ex plicit. A question may arise, at what period are they to take place in America? whither on the cessation of hostilities in consequence of the proclamation (which was no part of the preliminary Articles) or on the ratification of those Articles in America, or not untill the ratifica tion of the difinitive Treaty, in which the provisional Articles are to be inserted and to constitute part thereof. While we are waiting for the definitive Treaty (which will I hope remove these difficulties) every State will do well to judge in the best manner they can, on the sense of the provisional Articles, and endeavor to do nothing inconsistent with what is therein stipulated on the part of the United States. I have the Honr. to be with great respect and esteem Your Honrs very humble & most Obedt. Servt. Abiel Foster RC (MB: Chamberlain Collection). 1 See Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, October 21, note 1. 2 See Elias Boudinot to the States, October 29, 1783. Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear Sir Princeton, 23d October, 1783. In the 9th instant, I had the honor of informing your Excellency, that Congress had determined, that buildings shou’d be erected, for their use, “at or near the falls of the Delaware”; but the determination not being satisfactory to the southern states, Congress on Tuesday last resolved that buildings, for their use, should likewise be erected “at or near the lower falls of Potowmack or Georgetown;” and they have also determined that untill said buildings are prepared for their reception, Congress shall sit in Annapolis & Trenton alternately, not exceeding one year at a time in either place, and they have passed a resolution authorizing & directing the President to adjourn Congress on the 12th day of Novr. next, to meet at Annapolis on the 26th of the same month for the dispatch of public business, this seems to give more general satisfaction. 1 I understand Mr Van Berkel, the Dutch minister is in the City of Phila. but he has not yet made us a visit & I do not expect he will be reed, in his public capacity untill after Congress meets at Annapolis.
