100 October 23, 1783 Congress have, by proclamation, discharged all that part of the army, that were furloughed, & have left a discretionary power with the Genl, respecting the remainder. 2 Genl Washington informed me, a few days since, that by the last in formation he had reed from Sir Guy Carleton he expected to leave N.Y in the month of Novr next. Congress have agreed upon a proclamation, recommending to the states to sit apart the 2d Thursday of Deer, next as a day of public thanks giving, which you may receive officially before this comes to hand. 3 I have the honor to be, with great consideration, your Excellency’s most obedient servant. FC (PPIn: Americana Collection). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 For this October 21 debate, see JCC, 25:711-14. 2 For this October 18 proclamation, see JCC, 25:702-3. 3 See Elias Boudinot to the States, October 22, 1783. Erza L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir, Princeton August [i.e. October] 23. 1783. 1 In Expectation that some General Questions might be put in a few Days relative to the peace Establishment in which our State might be much interested, I determined to tarry here one week longer than I had proposed to do. At present I see no Prospect of such Establish ment being agreed to for some Time, The Business of this week hav ing been to agree upon a Place for a Second foederal Town & a Place to which Congress are to adjorn; and it is now resolved that Congress will adjorn the 12th of next month to meet on the 26th Day at Anapo- lis, & by the same Resolve have agreed that Buildings be erected near George Town near the Potomack for a second federal Town for the Recidens of Congress, as by the inclosed Act appears. The eastern States agreed with the Southern States in this Resolve but upon very different motives. I beleive but few States will consent to Advance Money for erecting Buildings in Two different Places. If this should be the Case the Act for erecting buildings near the falls of Trenton is Virtually repealed. Should the States think it necessary to erect Buildings at Two Places, it is likely one of the Places will be further Northward than Trenton. It was yesterday agreed to send the Exemplification of the Prelimi nary Articles with the act of Ratification to the several States. 2 I expect to leave this Place tomorrow or the next Day 3 so that I may be at Home by the last of the Month which will make the Time of my Attendence in Congress for the present Year, including travilling Days, to be Ninety Two Days.
