October 23, 1783 103 soon as Circumstances will permit: if then Massachusetts should be unprepared, an advantage may be taken, as Connecticut asserts was the Case, in her Dispute with Pennsylvania. We enclose the Proceedings of Congress for two foederal Towns. The resolution for one Town at or near the Falls of Delaware, was so dissatisfactory to the southern States, that there was no prospect of ob taining an Appropriation of Money to Erect Buildings for the Use of Congress, the Voice of nine States being necessary for this purpose. In order therefore to promote Harmony, without which we can never ex pect to preserve the Union, We consented to erect another Sett of Buildings, on the Potomack, for the alternate Residence of Congress, but one great object of this Resolve, on which all the eastern & south ern States have united, is to preserve the foederal Ballance, Which We think is somewhat impaired by an Influence arising from the constant Residence of Congress in one State. The Loss of the Ballance should it ever happen, must be naturally followed by a Change of Government, which might involve us in greater Calamities than the Establishment of our Independence. The Expence therefore of erecting two Setts of Buildings, & of having double Archives cannot We think be put in Competition with the Advantages mentioned. Had We to save this Ex pence, consented to erect but one Sett of Buildings on the Delaware, a Number of wealthy, who are generally neither the most vertuous nor patriotic Citizens, by seating themselves in the foederal Town, might strengthen the Influence already existing, & too soon subject Us to an oligarchy or Aristocracy; but an alternate Residence, in two places, has an evident Tendency to prevent such Influence. We have hitherto rea soned on the Certainty of an Expence in erecting the Buildings, but the presumption is that they will be raised without an Expence, by the enhanced Value of the Territory of the foederal Town, after the Right of Soil is vested in the united States. 2 We have also the Honor to inclose the Treaty with Sweden, 3 to in form You that the second Thursday of December next is proposed by Congress, as a Day of Thanksgiving, thro’out the united States. We re quest You to present our best Respects to the honble Legislature, & to be assured that We remain Gentlemen, with the sincerest Esteem your most obedt. & most huml serts. E. Gerry 4 S. Holten S. Osgood RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Elbridge Gerry, and signed by Gerry, Samuel Holten, and Samuel Osgood. Addressed: “Honble Samuel Adams Esqr presi dent of the Senate and The Honble Tristram Dalton Esqr, Speaker of the House of Rep resentatives of Massachusetts.” 1 No such proposal is found on the journals of Congress, but see Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, October 21, 1783.
