104 October 23,1783 2 This debate had been initiated by a motion offered by Gerry. See JCC, 25:697-99, 702, 706-14. 3 See North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Martin, October 19, 1783, note 5. 4 Not long after writing this letter Gerry left Princeton for Philadelphia where he wrote to his brother, Samuel R. Gerry, on Monday October 27 explaining some com mercial transactions in which they were mutually involved and concluding that “I shall go with Congress to Annapolis, which will prevent my Return [to Massachusetts] at the Time intended.” Gerry Collection, MHi. He did not attend Congress when a number of roll call votes were taken October 30, but he was present when the new Congress con vened on Monday November 3. See JCC, 25:763-70, 795. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah, Thursday Oct 23. 1783 Yesterday the gentlemen from Pensylvania attended 1 & with them Madison & Bland in expectation the question for a second foederal town would be brought on. Judge what their surprize must have been when they found it decided. But as if what was done would not suffi ciently irritate Pensylvania the states of Massachusetts & Rhodeisland seem determined to drive her to desperation. The legislature of Pen sylvania at their last session judging it proper and necessary, in order to satisfy the promises made to their officers & men to purchase of the Indians their claim to the lands within the boundary of the state, ap plied to Congress for leave to send commissioners to the proposed treaty to make the purchase. 2 This was referred to a comee. who highly approved the application of the legislature, pointed out the wis dom & good policy of the step, & recommended that the commission ers should give notice to the executive of Pensylvania of the time & place of holding the treaty in order that the commissioners of the state might attend, and that the commissioners of the United states should be instructed to give them every aid but so as not to be incom patible with the interests of the United states & the purposes they had in view. This was opposed by the delegates of Massachusetts & Rhodeisland, under pretence that it was contrary to the Articles of Confederation, that it might enhance the demands of the Indians for the land which the United states wanted to purchase or give an advan tage to Pensylva. in making her purchase. Mr. Gerry seemed to inti mate that he would agree to the measure, if Pensylvania would throw what she meant to give to the Indians into a common stock with the United states, & the commissioners for the United states had the sole management of the business. But this being refused, Massachusetts & Rhodeisland voted against the report and the application was re jected, there being only six of the eight states present in favour of the measure. 3 Fain would I hope that Pensylvania by her wisdom and mag nanimity would shew herself superior to these insults & will not suffer
