October 24, 1783 111 and defence, and that Congress had only the right to judge of the quantum or degree of force which each should keep up and that the general defence was provided for by that part of the articles which en joined on each state to keep up a well regulated militia. That if a power was admitted to be in Congress to garrison posts & keep up troops it would be necessary to have it defined, least it should be abused to the injury of the individual states &c. On this subject he asked my Opinion. I told him that in matters of peace and war and what related to the general defence and common welfare the sovereign power of the United states was vested in Congress. That in every Sovereign there was a latent power to provide for the common safety and defence. To deny the existence of this power, would be absurd, to delineate & define it strictly would be dan gerous. While it was employed for the public good & general safety no one could complain. If ever it was abused, it would be easy for the states to repress and restrain it. But considering the constitution of Congress, there was little danger of such an abuse. I therefore thought that in the present question a discussion of the power of Congress was unnecessary and that the only enquiry ought to be whether the public safety required the garrisoning of some posts, what posts those ought to be and what force will be necessary to maintain them. This being agreed on, it will then be necessary to consider on what footing they are to be established & how they are to be raised & kept up. He was pleased to say there was weight in what I said. At dinner I happened to be seated between him and Mr Gerry. I could not help smiling at my situation. The Minister of France had arrived in town and was at the table. At dinner the president who loves to talk and is not very curious in his choice of subjects started a conversation about the propriety of selling instead of removing the furniture of the president’s house. Mr Peters observed that the expence of removing furniture backwards & forwards must be great, that selling it at every removal would incur a considerable loss. That therefore it would be necessary to have two setts, & instead of selling the furniture now he submitted whether it would not be best to keep it here till Congress returned & applying to Mr Gerry asked whether this was not good eastern ceconomy. I ob served to my Assessors that I fancied it would be necessary to sell the furniture to raise money to defray the expense of removing the pa pers. This led Mr Howell to our finances & consequently to Mr Mor ris. He had a great respect for Mr Morris and his state were perfectly sensible of the great services he had done to the united states, but they were opposed to his plans and measures. That for his own part all his opposition arose from that and whatever might be thought, it never was his intention to injure him in his private capacity or charac ter. I told him it was not for me to enter into any gentleman’s thoughts or intentions. I could only judge of actions. However I would
