112 October 24, 1783 put several circumstances together and leave others to form a conclu sion. Mr Morris had entered into his Office at a time when there was an end of all public credit, when our army was on the point of dis banding for want not of pay but of provisions, when those who were enemies to our cause were pluming themselves with hopes of our speedy ruin, the timid & wavering seemed ready to provide for their safety by going over to the enemy & the most stout hearted had the most serious apprehensions of distress & danger. Without a farthing in the public treasury, without any well grounded hopes of a speedy supply, Mr M stept into office & by his personal credit & wise mea sures retrieved & established credit, & fed & kept the army together, until our enemy was compelled to acknowledge our independence and agree to a cessation of hostilities. When after this he was desirous of quitting the office, he was induced to continue till the army was dis banded. This he agreed to on Condition that an application should be made to the court of France for a farther aid of money and an earnest recommendation sent to the states to forward the supplies called for and on a most solemn assurance given by Congress to aid & support him in the measures he should take. On these conditions & assurances he continued And proceeded to issue his notes & enter into engagements until his anticipations amounted to a million of dol lars. The moment this was known he, Mr H, had heard a motion to countermand the application to the court of France, to suspend the payment or collection of the taxes called for, and enquiries made by what authority Mr M issued notes & intimations thrown out that he was liable in his private capacity to be sued for those notes by the holders. Put all these together & what judgment is to be formed. He drew his face into a smile, which he has always at command & said aye, indeed, put all these together and it looks bad. In the mean while Peters had darted some strokes of wit at Gerry which seemed to touch him and as he has a great inclination to be thought a wit though I hardly ever knew any who had less pretensions to it he turned to me and said he had told somebody, I do not recol lect whom he named, that he must do one of two things though he believed he would chuse the last, either to stay in Congress and learn to be a Salamander & live in fire, or to leave Congress. I told him if Gentlemen continued in the disposition they had lately discovered it would be proper to learn the use of the sword and to come armed to Debate. That if they acted and spoke conformable to the general sen timents of their constituents it was no matter how soon they parted. The sooner the better. For jarring interests prosecuted with such tem per could never coalesce. And if they seperated before enmity took deep root, by mutual reproaches their common safety and common danger might the sooner bring the states together on better terms. I concluded the evening with the perusal of a pamphlet, sent me by Mr Dunlap, on a quarrel that has taken place in France between Mr
