116 October 25, 1783 James McHenry to Margaret Caldwell 10 o’clock [October 25, 1783] It is Saturday, my sweet friend, and I am just going to Congress. But as I dine out, I carry your letter with me to put into the post office— not from any apprehension that I shall be unable to put it there after dinner—but because, I may be obliged to sit with the company till after his departure. It is true the wine is said to be good—but I shall not be tempted to forget in its fumes the more delicious intoxication of love. Bon jour, my dear Peggy—bon jour. James McHenry [PS.] I hope, my love, got the letter I sent Thursday morning by a Mr. Van Vleck. 3 O’clock. Congress is just about breaking up. We have done little to day of any importance, unless you will suppose important to have agreed to give Mr. Van Berckel an audience, and an entertainment on next Wednesday. 1 I go to drink your health. Adieu. JMcH. 2 RC (MdHi: McHenry Papers). 1 That is, Thursday, for which see Boudinot to van Berckel, this date. 2 At noon, this day, McHenry had penned a separate note to Peggy after “Mr. Maddi son told me that he sets off immediately, and he carries this to your brother.” And the following day he wrote yet another letter informing his fiancee that he had ridden with Daniel Carroll to Cranberry, “a little village about nine miles from this place,” returning shortly after sunset. “I think it was in the latter end of the year 1776, that I passed through this Town a prisoner under a British guard; and I could not help comparing it with my present situation. See, my Peggy, in this instance, the mutability of human af fairs! But history is filled with such examples; nor is there a corner of the world, not a condidon of life exempt from the revolutions of fortune.” McHenry Papers, MdHi. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Saturday Oct 25. 1783 I received yours of Thursday N.7, And was exceedingly surprized and much concerned to find upon opening it that you had not re ceived a letter from me since Sunday. I had written with great freedom and sent a letter every day by the stage directing it to be given to the driver and not to any of the passengers, that you might receive it the same evening. I was somewhat relieved by the postscript, which in formed that mine of Monday & Tuesday had got to hand. I wish you would direct Peter to attend every evening at the Indian King till the stage comes in and to search the box & pocket of the stage where the letters are kept. You may depend that one goes by every stage. And I
