October 25, 1783 117 should be sorry any were lost. It would make me more cautious in ex pressing my sentiments. I am much pleased with the attention you paid to Mr. Spear & his daughter. We are under obligations to him, which I longed to repay. You have not told me what sort of a girl his daughter is, nor given me any account of our Baltimore friends. As I mean the carriage house only for a temporary convenience I would have it made of rough boards and am very indifferent where it is placed. I think it may as well be placed on the street adjoining the enclosed lot. It will serve for a lime house if ever I should build. I will not trouble you with any anxiety about my future plan of life. I can form none for happiness or satisfaction in this world, unless you are with me. I am now advanced in life and find myself much more helpless for having been so long helped and tended by you. And yet I confess I have a strong desire, to watch the workings of the present fer ment, to mark the characters of the present actors and to see the issue of present measures. The Minister of France made a remarkable Ob servation, the evening before last at the President’s. “I told col. Hamil ton,” said he, “he was putting the Chesnuts in the fire to roast, but an other might eat them. I fancy he now finds I was a true prophet.” I leave you to judge what opinion he has of the late removal. Adieu my dear Hannah, take care of your health. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). Hugh Williamson to John Gray Blount Dr Sr Princeton 25th Oct 1783 Being informed by Mr Nash that he is not coming on I have taken the Liberty once more to ask our Govr for a little Mony & unless I am mistaken he ought to send an Order for at least 2000 Dlrs. I wish you would try to convey the Letter directed to him 1 & that for your Brother 2 to Hillsbro before the House rises. In that Case I think the Govr will not fail to give your Brother the Draughts in my favour. This you must suppose is an object with me and I have placed the matter in such a Light that I think the mony will not be refused. Mr Hawkins has written in the same Stile. 3 I have the Honor to be, your most obedt and hble Servt, Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Williamson’s letter to Thomas Blount has not been found. 3 Not found.
