118 October 27,1783 Elias Boudinot to Pieter Johan van Berckel Sir, Princeton 27 October 1783 Your polite favour of last evening has been just delivered to me. 1 Congress are not sitting, but I will undertake to assure you that the intended audience shall be adjourned till Friday next. Congress being very desirous of making every measure altogether agreeable to you would no doubt be as ready to have put it off till Saturday, but that being the last day of our annual existence, there will not be any house on that day, by reason of the necessary and unavoidable absence of a number of Members. I did myself the honor of writing the substance of this by a private opportunity a few minutes ago, but lest any unncessary delay should happen, I send this by Express. I have the honor to be &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 This letter is in PCC, item 99, fols. 25-28; a translation of it is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:716. Van Berckel had requested Congress “to change the designated day of audience [Thursday] to Friday or Saturday next.” Elias Boudinot to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, Princeton 27th October 1783 I am honored by the commands of Congress to make known to you the pleasure they received from your communications of the 18th of September. 1 I cannot do this so well as by enclosing their Act of the 24th instant for this purpose. 2 Be assured, Sir, that every instance of the affection of our good Ally gives me great pleasure, and I feel equally interested in the due ac knowledgment of the many proofs we have received of this happy effect from the union of our two nations. Nothing can cement this alliance more perfectly than reciprocity and liberality in commercial regula tions, which, I doubt not, are principles that will ever temper the wise Councils of so great a Monarch as your illustrious Master. I have the honor to be, &c. E B LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For these communications to a committee of Congress, see JCC, 25:588-89. 2 For the enclosed resolve expressing pleasure at France’s reaffirmation of the Franco-American alliance and Congress’ wish that the same “spirit of liberality may per vade commercial regulations, on both sides,” see JCC, 25:745—46.
