October 27, 1783 Elias Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary 119 Gentlemen Princetown Oct. 27th 1783 Previous to my leaving the Chair of Congress, I take the liberty again to address you, merely as an individual that you may not be left totally without Information until the Choice of a Minister for foreign Affairs shall take place. I have pressed Congress much on this subject, and am fully convinced of the difficult Situation you must be in for want of Information from this important Office. I have the honor of acknowledging the rec 1 of your several favours of the . 1 My last addressed to you, was on the 15 th of July giving you a minute account of the Mutiny of the Soldiers in Philadelphia and of our subsequent removal to this Place—since which we have remained here tho. in but indifferent Circumstances of accommodation. Congress lately have determined to fix their place of Residence at the Head of the Delaware over the Falls of Trenton. They take in contemplation to fix another place the Falls of Potomack near Georgetown and to sit alter nately at each Place year about. They have also determined to adjourn on the 8 th Nov r2 to Annapolis for their temporary residence. They have also passed several important Acts lately, which you will see by the several Proclamations contained in the Newspapers which I do myself the honor of transmitting herewith from the month of Sep 1 2 d. Congress have not yet taken the Appointment of a minister for for eign Affairs under Consideration, as their Time is principally taken up with previous measures of a Peace arrangement both Civil & Military. It will now be put off till the removal to Annapolis. I shall add to this Letter (I believe) several Acts of Congress In consequence of a Report on your last Official Letter we have been most Anxiously (looking ?) for the Definitive Treaty which is really a matter of much more impor tance in this Country than it is in Europe. The States at best cannot be convinced that Peace is made to any Purpose without this welcome Act, and the Conduct of the British in these States has confirmed them in the Opinion. We lately sent Baron Steuben to Canada to set tle with Genl Waldenson 3 the Time and manner of delivering up & re ceiving the Posts and fortifications on the Frontiers whenever that Gen 1 should be ready so to do. He was refused even a conference on the subject. Gen 1 Waldenson declaring that he knew of no Peace be tween Britain and America, that his orders were to cease Hostilities which he had carefully done but could go no further. The Baron thinks they are planning their schemes in Canada for holding the Frontier Posts for a year or two longer which would prove ruinous to these States rendition of them must be urged without delay. The Min-
