November 1, 1783 129 happy event which is not the less important from the delay which has attended it. We are with great respect & esteem Yr. Excellency’s most Obt. Arthur Lee John F. Mercer RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Mercer and signed by Mercer and Lee. 1 Mercer undoubtedly wrote this letter on October 31 as the events described in both paragraphs occurred this day. For the reception of the Dutch minister, see the preced ing entry. Moreover, copies of Pieter Johan van Berckel’s credentials, his address to Congress, and Pres. Elias Boudinot’s reply—all in Mercer’s hand and correctly dated October 31—are in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi. See also JCC, 25:780-86; and PCC, item 129, fols. 21-24. The news of the signing of the definitive peace treaty had also arrived just prior to the reception, for which see Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipo tentiary, October 27, note 3. Elias Boudinot to John Adams Sir, Private Princeton 1st November 1783 I have the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your several pub lic letters under the dates ofjune the 23d to July the 18th inclusive, by Capt. Barney. 1 Nothing is done in consequence of those letters but what is contained in the instructions inclosed in my official letter by this opportunity to the Commissioners jointly. Congress have not come to any further determination on your last letters, relative to your resignation; on account of the peace arrange ment not being yet settled. Perhaps there will be but very few Ministers employed in Europe, and these in the Character of Residents or simply Ministers. The conduct of Great Britain does not appear yet very conciliating, and her measures on this side the water have rather tended to irritate than otherwise. Congress will not be in a hurry to send a Minister to the Court of Lon don, till they see how the definitive Treaty will end. We have an account this day from Colo. Ogden that it was signed on the 3d of September, and that Mr. Thaxter is on his way with it, whom we long to see. Your letters on the subject of our credit abroad and the strengthen ing and cementing the union at home, came at a happy moment, and have had a very good effect. 2 Your Countrymen were running wild on this subject, but your observations & opinion have helped to check them, and the Legislature of Massachusetts have passed the 5 Per Cent Impost recommended by Congress. Mr. Van Berckel is arrived and yesterday received his first public au dience of Congress. This address and our answer I send to the Com missioners jointly. He appears to justify the high opinion we had
