November 1, 1783 133 Elias Boudinot to the Burgomasters and Senate of Hamburg Gentlemen, Princeton 1st. Nov. 1783 I have the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your very respect ful and polite letter of the 29th of March last, by the hands of your faithful Citizen and Missionary Mr. de Boor. 1 Congress received this very generous and candid communication with all that pleasure and attention, which so great proffers of friendship from the honorable The Burgomasters and Senate of the imperial free City Hamburgh, jusdy demanded from the United States of America. Congress did not delay to take this honorable tender of the affec tion and esteem of the worthy Burgomasters and Senate, under their immediate consideration; and I am now honored by the commands of Congress to make known to the respectable Representatives of this great and imperial City, “in terms expressive of the most sincere re gard, the high satisfaction with which the United States in Congress assembled, received the annunciation of their friendship and attach ment, and their affectionate congratulations on the establishment of the liberty & Independance of the United States of America. That hav ing founded the commercial system of these States on the basis of equality and reciprocity, Congress will chearfully meet the wishes of the Burgomasters and Senate of Hamburg, and unite with them in en couraging the most friendly intercourse, between the Citizens of the respective Countries, on such liberal principles as will best promote their mutual advantage and prosperity; and that it is the earnest prayer of the United States in Congress assembled, that the Imperial free City Hamburg, may continue to encrease in commerce and splen dor and be blessed with uninterrupted tranquility.” 2 It is with the most sensible pleasure I make this communication, and hope and pray that a solid foundation will be laid, for the firm es tablishment of friendship and communion between the Citizens of our Republicks. May God Almighty keep the honorable Burgomasters and Senate of the Imperial free City Hamburgh in his holy protection. I have the honor to be &c E.B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “The Honorable The Burgomasters and Senate of the Imperial free City, Hamburgh.” 1 This letter, delivered byJohann Abraham de Boor, was referred on September 30 to a committee consisting of James Duane, Samuel Huntington, and Arthur Lee which re ported on October 22. See PCC, item 82, 3:91-112; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:351-53. 2 For this October 29 resolution, see JCC, 25:757-58.
