134 November 1, 1783 Elias Boudinot to John Jay Sir, (Private) Princeton 1 November 1783 I was honored by your several private favours, recommending Mr. Vaughan and some other Gentlemen, to whom I have endeavoured to pay every civility in my power. Also one enclosing my Nephew’s letter from Madeira, 1 for which I am much obliged to you. Congress has thought proper to appoint him their Commercial Agent at that Island. 2 He is a deserving young American, who I doubt not will do honor to his appointment. If you can be of any service to him I shall take it as a particular favour done to me. I have the honor of enclosing a copy of the acts of Congress relating to yourself individually, the authenticated copies of which I transmit in a set of instructions to the Commissioners jointly by this opportunity. 3 Congress did not think it just or honorable to alter or abridge your salary while absent at Bath for your health, and therefore have passed only a simple permission for your going to Bath for the re-establish ment of your former vigour. We are still at this town, but on the 6th instant Congress mean to adjourn to Annapolis having determined at present to have two places of residence or Fcederal Towns, one near the falls of Potomack, the other near the falls of Delaware. I send the New-papers to the Commissioners which will let you into the general state of things. Capt. Jones, the Bearer of this, can also give you much general information. I carefully forwarded your letters to the North River. I have the honor to be, with the most sincere regard and esteem, Sir, your most obedient & very humb. Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (PPIn: Americana Collection). 1 For this June 11, 1783, “private” letter to Boudinot, see Jay, Papers (Morris), 2:526-29. 2 For the appointment of Boudinot’s nephew, John Marsden Pintard, to this position, see JCC, 25:778-80. s See Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, this date, note. Elias Boudinot to Henry Laurens Sir, (Private.) P.T. Novr 1, 1783. I have the honor of acknowledging the rec 1 of your several favours of June 27 July 17 August 2 & 9th. 1 These Letters were very acceptable to Congress as they arrived in the midst of great Doubts of what could occasion so long silence of our Ministers in Europe, not having had any Official Intelligence from them since the Acct of the signing the
