November 1, 1783 135 preliminary Articles. By my Letters to the Com rs Jointly of July last, 2 you have undoubtedly been informed of our leaving Philadelphia & taking up our Residence in this Place. The Mutiny that occasioned this removal soon subsided and order & harmony was speedily re stored by a voluntary submission of the mutineers. Several of them were condemned to be shot and their Partners in Guilt ordered to do the execution. In the last moments of despair, they were all pardoned by Congress, which has had a good effect. This army is disbanded & gone home tho without any money. The Expectation of seeing you here in the Spring gives your friends great Pleasure. Congress were agreed to form two federal Towns one near the falls of the Potomack, the other near the falls of the Delaware set alternately year about at each Place. They adjourn on the 6th for Annapolis as the Place of their temporary residence. As I have not a moment to spare I must beg leave to refer you to my Letter to the Com r jointly & the News Pa pers sent to them for further Particulars of News. 3 I have the honor to be with very great respect & Esteem, Sir, E. Boudinot. MS not found; reprinted from Boudinot, Life and Letters, 2:7-8. 1 These letters are in PCC, item 89, fols. 307-29; and Wharton, Diplxmatic Correspon dence, 6:507-8, 555-56, 628-29, 640-41. 2 See Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, July 15, 1783. 3 See the following entry. Elias Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary Gentlemen, Princeton 1 Nov. 1783 I am honored by the commands of Congress to transmit you a set of in structions in consequence of your joint and seperate letters of the months of June and July last, by Captain Barney, which I do myself the honor to enclose. These were not finished till the 29th ult. after having undergone the most mature deliberation and fullest discussion in Congress. 1 Yesterday we received from Colo. Ogden the news of the signature of the definitive Treaty on the 3d of September, and that Mr. Thaxter was on the way with the official news. We long for his arrival tho’ we have no doubt of the fact, which is also announced by the post this day from Boston. I do most sincerely congratulate you, Gentlemen, on this most im portant and happy event, which has diffused the sincerest Joy throughout these States, and the terms of which must necessarily hand down the names of its American Negociators to Posterity with the highest possible honor. May the Gratitude of your Country ever be the fair reward of all your labours.
