November 6,1783 147 Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sr. Princeton Novr. 3d. 1783 We expect the President has transmitted agreable to a resolve of Congress copys of the several acts respecting the places of residence of Congress, & the adjournment to Annapolis. 1 A doubt has arisen since the passing of the act directing the President to adjourn Congress to Annapolis on the 12th instant, whether under the articles of Con federation, the last Congress had a power to direct the adjournment of the present which commences this day. 2 Shoud there be the same States on the floor during this week, that voted for the adjournment, it is probable this point will be put out of question—this circumstance may detain Mr Carroll a few days longer than he intended. We have the honor to be, yr Excelly & honors, Mo Obt. Servts Dani Carroll James McHenry RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Carroll and signed by Carroll and McHenry. 1 See Elias Boudinot to the States, November 1, 1783. 2 This “doubt” was resolved later this day, for which see the preceding entry. Elias Boudinot to Elias Dayton Sir, Princeton, Nov. 6th, 1783 Your Favour covering the Certificate of my Election, as an honorary Member of the Society of the Cincinnati of this State, has just come to hand. Permit me Sir, to request the favour of you, to make known to that respectable Society, the high Sense I entertain of the honor done me, by this unsolicited Mark of their Respect and Attention, and to as sure them that while with Pleasure I accept the honorable appoint ment, I shall also endeavour by every Means in my Power, to render my self worthy of so peculiar a Mark of their Friendship & Esteem. The Line of the Army at large, and particularly that of New Jersey, has ever met with my warmest Support, but their distinguished politeness on this Occasion, will give me the happiness of considering myself as one of their Body, which I shall allways esteem as a valuable Badge of Honor. 1 Be pleased Sir to accept my particular Thanks for the very polite & friendly Terms in which you have communicated the Election of the Society, and be assured, that I have the honor to be with great Esteem, Sir, Your most Obed and very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (DSoC). Addressed: “The Honorable Brigadier Genl. Dayton, President of the Soci ety of the Cincinnati for the State of Newjersey, Elizabeth Town.”
