November 17, 1783 155 Charles Thomson to the States Sir, (Circular) Secretary’s Office November 13th. 1783. I have the honor to inform your Excellency that on the first Monday in this month the United States in Congress Assembled proceeded by ballot to the election of a President—when The honorable Thomas Mifflin was elected. Next day they adjourned Congress to meet at An napolis in the State of Maryland on the 26th of the present month. 1 I am with perfect Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obedient And most humble Servt. Cha Thomson 2 Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). 1 For the November 3 and 4 resolutions pertaining to these decisions, see JCC, 25:799, 807. 2 Thomson also sent a copy of this letter to General Washington this day, Washington Papers, DLC. Sir Philadelphia 14th. Novemr. 1783. I arrived in this City on the 12th Instant, being unable to take the smallpox in Princeton for want of the infection. I shall this day be in- noculated here and proceed to Anapolis, when I am recovered. In the mean time if a Deligate comes forward from New Hampshire I wish him to call on me at the Revd. Mr. Marshalls in this City. I must beg the favor of your Honr. to forward some Money as early as possi ble my Cash being almost exhausted. I am Sir with great respect & es teem your most obedient Servt. Abiel Foster. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). John Francis Mercer to Charles Simms Philadelphia Nov. 17. 1783. Has investigated a Court of Appeals rul ing against an unidentified party represented by Col. Simms, an Alexandria, Va., lawyer, and expresses great doubt that there is any re course in the case. “An Appeal from the Court of Appeals is unknown to the Constitution & altho in cases of corruption, & such like, there is no doubt but that Congress wou’d interfere, yet the evidence must be glaring that wou’d justify or support this remedy, for the Articles of Confederation seem cautiously to divest Congress of all cognizance of such cases. My information tells me that what prov’d decisive with the
