156 November 17,1783 Court was—a Certificate produced by the Capt. covering the Goods— which he never had attempted to conceal. That the necessary repairs cou’d be no where effected but at Alexandria—& that he had every reason to believe that his exceeding the limits prescribed to him was agreeable to Mr. Hunter. “As to the Decree of Costs, I am instructed that altho’ it is unknown to the Common Law for the party succeeding to pay the Costs, yet it is by no means unusual in the Admiralty Courts. The Policy of these Courts is to favor seizures as much as possible—And whenever circum stances appear (prima facie) to be such as to afford grounds for strong suspicion, altho’ upon investigation they do not prove suffi cient for condemnation, the Court usually makes the Persons whose Property is thus circumstanced pay the Costs. This it is said was the case of the vessell alluded to, the circumstances were such as justified the conduct of those who made this seizure, altho,’ upon tryal they wou’d not support a forfeiture.” RC (DLC: Charles Simms Papers). Thomas Jefferson to James Monroe Dear Sir Philadelphia Nov. 18. 1783. Your favor of the 9th 1 came to hand yesterday and relieved us from the fear that sickness or some other accident had detained you. I am very particularly obliged to you for the attention you have been so good as to pay to my accomodation. Several circumstances had pre vented my taking measures for this purpose so early as I wished. I had ultimately relied on Mr. Carrol who left this place two days ago. I will therefore be obliged to you to releive him from the trouble I had given him as he has many commissions of the same kind on his hand. As you have been so kind as to procure alternatives for me it ensures me a comfortable situation. I leave Patsy here, having had it in my power to procure for her the best tutors in French, dancing, music & drawing. Mr. Carrol was so kind as to undertake to procure for me a stable for five horses. This I shall still wish for. Mr. Mercer talks of set ting out tomorrow. Mr. Madison and myself shall leave this place cer tainly on the 21st so as to be in Annapolis on the 24th. 2 The President does not set out till the 23d. Dr. Lee did not engage the house for the delegation, not having been desired to do so, nor having ever in formed them he had done so. I rather suppose it is for some particu lar set of gentlemen with whom he means to join. Be so good as to present my compliments to Mr. Hardy and assure yourself of the es teem with which I am Dr. Sir, your affectionate friend & servt., Th. Jefferson
