November 24, 1783 163 Thomas Mifflin to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia November 23rd. 1783. I have the honor to inform you, that Mr. Thaxter, private Secretary to Mr. Adams, arrived last night from France; being dispatched by our Ministers at Paris, with the definitive treaty between America and Great Britain; which was signed on the 3rd day of September. I beg leave to congratulate your Excellency on this great event, and remain with much respect & esteem Your Excellency’s obt. hble Servt. Tho. Mifflin 1 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of Massachusetts. NB. A similar letter was written to their Excellencies The Governors of Rhode-Island, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina and Georgia.” 1 Mifflin also sent copies of this letter to George Washington (Gratz Collection, PHi), and to the speaker of the Pennsylvania Assembly, George Gray (Feinstone Collection, PWacD). To the latter Mifflin also added the following brief paragraph: “Colonel Har- mar has delivered to his Excellency president Dickinson a printed copy of the Treaty which appears to be the same with the preliminary Articles.” Richard Peters to John Dickinson Dr Sir, Belmont Novr 24. 1783. I enclose some Papers I had intended to have sent to Council in Conjunction with my Colleagues of the last Delegation. I had given Di rections for Copies & had began Several myself of some important Transactions where I thought it necessary that the State should be in formed. The Subjects of the Communications intended related to the Recommendations respecting the Tories of which the Letter from Dr Franklin herewith sent is a Part but it is the one which produced the Alteration in the British Counterproject of the Treaty from a positive Stipulation to a recommendatory Article. 1 There are other Papers on this Subject calculated to elucidate the intention of the Parties & which will be necessary when Congress issue the Recommendations on the definitive Treaty. There are also Informations on the Subject of Commerce which tend to develope the present British Systems & to shew that the European Nations are more likely to make a common Cause with Britain as to the carrying & exclusive Trade & how to thwart her Plans. These will be requisite to shew that unless there is a general Power to regulate Commerce so that there shall be a Unity of System & a Decision & Energy in its Execution, our Trade will be at the Mercy of foreign Nations & of none more than our late Enemy who will let no Opportunity slip of dividing us by throwing out Baits to some, &, when she dare, Frowns & Threats to others. Many of the
