164 November 24, 1783 British Papers are pompous, laboured & lengthy which prevented the whole Subject being transmitted in due Time. The Delegates ought to have contingent Money allowed for occasional Copies & other Busi ness of the Delegation which is often neglected owing to the Engage ments of Members who are either taken up with the Business of the House or averse from the Drudgery of collecting or copying Papers. The Copy of the Resolution respecting the Treaty with the Indians the Secretary of Congress directed his Clerk to send to me; but it is not done. There are some other Papers relating to Indian Affairs which ought to be laid before the Council & Assembly. If I see any of the Gentlemen of the present Delegation I will endeavour to point out particular Papers on the several Subjects I allude to. But it is neces sary for them to be acquainted with the general Subjects before they will see the Force of any particular Paper or know what Parts to com municate & what are of a secret Nature. Their Attention may there fore be drawn to the Points of Information which struck me when they come to make themselves acquainted with the foreign Papers & past domestic Transactions. I have the Honour to be, with sincere Esteem & Respect, Your very obed Servt, Richard Peters RC (PHi: Logan Dickinson Collection). 1 This “Extract of a Letter from Doer Franklin to Mr. Hartley, dated Passey, November 26th, 1782," suggesting that Britain drop her treaty demands for indemnification for loyalists and restoration of confiscated property, is in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 9:669-71. As a result, Article 5 of the treaty merely stipulated “that the Congress shall earnestly recom mend it to the legislatures of the respective states, to provide for the restitution of all es tates ...,” rather than absolutely requiring such action. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia 25t November 1783 The Support of the Suffering Citizens of the North Eastern part of our State who have fled for Redress to Congress has already com pelled Us to draw upon your Excellency. Having neither Authority, nor a Knowledge of any Funds in your Excellency’s power to answer our wants, we adopted this Measure with Reluctance. My own particular Situation obliges me however painful to take a further Liberty of the same nature. You know, Sir, that it has been my misfortune to be left at differ ent Times without any Provision by the State but ineffectual votes. While my Finances admitted it I never complained, but In June 1781 I was obliged to represent my Circumstances to the Legisla ture. They were pleased to order my Accounts to be adjusted by an Act passed the 30th of June. Accordingly They were settled by the
