November 28,1783 167 ties pecuniary in the State. He appears also to be clever. I left Mr Spaight at Philada. & expect him here on Monday. 1 The State House here is certainly an elegant Building. The Room we are to sit in is per haps the prettyest in America. Be so good as give me a detail of assem bly news. The acct, of western Lands in particular. As soon as I have settled at a private Lodging, which I hope will be on to morrow I shall try to connect the Chain of occurrences which have lately been inter rupted. I took a Seat from Princeton in the Carriage of an acquain tance and have not yet provided myself with Horses. Mr Spaight tells me that he thinks a Gelding of the first quality may be purchased near Halifax @ £45 to £50. If this is the Case and if such purchases are to be made with Paper Mony I have thoughts of requesting a friend to buy for me a couple of good Horses viz for the Saddle & Port Mantua. By those means I should save 200 or more of my present hard Dlrs, for which I foresee I shall have full use before the Spring. And I should come home by Water, or at least come as far as Suffolk or Portsmouth. However if I can save mony enough to buy Horses I shall buy them to the Northward and come Home on Horseback as by far the most ele- gable way. I wish to attend at the Spring Sitting of the Genl. Assembly. If I should be chosen a member so much the more convenient as in that Case I may be able in my Place to explain some measures that I have much at Heart. From this distance you know that I may readily at tend though I should leave Congress on the first of April. I am told that Mr Nash has been so kind as write to the Assembly that he will at tend Congress during the whole of the next year. He will doubtless keep his Word! You have heard of the pretty Mrs. Lloy’d. Her husband visited me to day. Perhaps I may visit his fair wife to morrow. This Place affords a multitude of fine women. As we have ceased taking the Phi lada Papers you cannot in future expect any Communications of that sort till we are otherwise provided. However I propose taking Clay pools for my private Accot if he will engage to furnish it regularly. 2 Be pleased present my Respects to Mrs Blount & be assured that I am, Dr Sr, with the utmost Consideration, Your obedt Hble Servt, Hugh Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 Richard Dobbs Spaight had apparently left North Carolina on October 22 and tar ried in Philadelphia before leaving on December 5 for Annapolis where he finally at tended Congress on the 13th. See JCC, 25:810; and Spaight to Blount, December 26, 1783. In an account submitted to the state of North Carolina in 1785, Spaight claimed compensation for “my going to and Attendance as a delegate in Congress ... from the 22d of October 1783." Spaight Papers, Nc-Ar. 2 That is, David C. Claypoole’s Pennsylvania Packet.
