174 December 3,1783 removed, and you have been acknowledged in your public character. This may occasion your continuing at the Court of St. Petersburg this winter; but will not I hope prevent your returning next Summer. It seems to be the opinion of Congress not to employ hereafter more than two ministers abroad, one at the Court of Versailles and the other at the Court of London. Mr. Jay is talked of for the first and Mr. Adams for the last; but I cannot say with certainty who will be ap pointed. At some other Courts we may have residents, or agents, or consuls. Our finances will not admit of maintaining many ministers abroad; and if they would perhaps they might do as much hurt as good. As soon as a minister shall be appointed for the court of Lon don, we may expect one from thence; and then we shall doubtless have an abundance of pretious intriguing. We shall not I imagine soon forget the favours we have received from our great and good ally; but interest you know governs the world. The order of the British King in Council prohibiting any trade to the B. W. Indias but in B. bottoms, has created great uneasiness; and it seems that our trade to the F. W. Indias is restrained. That nation which discovers the most favorable disposition toward our commerce will probably be most regarded by us. Whether the Dutch will copy after the French & British and not permit a trade to their ports on the continent of America & to St. Eustatius is uncertain; but it is my opin ion that they will avail themselves of the blunders of others, and give us a free trade. Good policy dictates that we should form commercial treaties with all commercial States, where reciprocity can be obtained, and I sup pose will be pursued. I am not sufficiently acquainted with the advan tages that might result from a trade with Russia, to determin whether we ought to court it or not; but certainly the more channels the stream of our commerce runs in the greater will be the prospect of gain, the less will be the danger of our being injured by any partial ob structions, and the more may that spirit of enterprize be gratified which springs from and is favorable to liberty. The thirteen stripes will in the course of a year, fly on the coasts of China, and hereafter be dis played wherever Seas shall roll to waft our ships. If the U. S. in Congress assembled should recommend to the sev eral States to lay heavy imposts upon goods imported from and ex ported to the B. W. Indias, in B. bottoms, it might perhaps bring Britain to reason; but commerce you know is a coy dame that must be handled delicately. The present system of finance is founded intirely upon the recom mendation for an impost. This State and the State of Massachusetts have complied with it fully; some others partially and some have not as yet taken the recommendation into their consideration. The State of R. Island &c will be the last that adopts it. She knows that it will be
