176 Decembers, 1783 duct of the correspondence with the Chancellor of Russia, and I have never heard you blamed but for your patiences. It is confessedly im possible to form a right judgment of the conduct of a public man at a distance; and yet some men will assume to pass a judgment upon it too peremptorily. A certain late Secretary for foreign affairs, was pret tily chastised by certain ministers for certain reprobatory hints. 7 Courts are schools to learn patience in; and you & Mr. Jay I think have not proved bad scholars. Mr. Jay has leave to go to Bath for his health. Dr. Franklin hath offer’d a resignation of his office on account of his old age. I suppose it will be accepted soon after Congress shall have met at Annapolis in Maryland, the place to which Congress is adjourned. I wrote you, I be lieve, in my letter by Capt. Jones, that Congress had resolved upon two places of permanent residence, one on the banks of Potowmack near George Town in Maryland, the other on the banks of Delaware near Trenton. How the idea of two fcederal towns, as they are called in the resolution, will strike you, will strike Europe I cannot tell. The wits of this city have diverted themselves exceedingly with this measure. Any thing, even the most serious things may be ridiculed, especially when wits are sharpend by disappointment. The Eastern States came into this plan, to accommodate the Southern Gentlemen, and to avoid being whirled into the vortex of Philadelphia as the cant expression goes. Whether we shall have any permanent place of residence or not is uncertain; but I do not see at present the absurdity of Congress sit ting at two or three places alternately. It would be attended with some inconveniences; but it might be attended with ballancing advantages. There has been much talk about the jurisdiction that Congress should exercise in the place or places where it may reside; but noth ing has been determined. 8 I don’t know that the assembly of the States, of the United Netherlands, or of the Swiss cantons, hath any ju risdiction over the towns where it resides. A peace or rather a military establishment hath been long on the tapis. I believe it will not be speedily agreed to. It involves an impor tant question, to wit, whether Congress are invested with power by the confoederation to erect a military establishment in a time of peace. Some hold the affirmative of this question, others on the same side fearful of confoederation ground pass over it and talk of certain im plied, inherent powers which they say reside in every supreme power. It may be necessary to maintain some temporary posts to secure the lands, become dependent on the States by the peace and by cessions of the States of N. York & Virginia, from intruders and to check the Indians, but from a standing army in time of peace Good Lord deliver us. Congress have accepted the cession of Virginia with some alter ations, which, it is imagined, will be acceded to. Presuming on this and on a purchase of the Indian right Congress have agreed to lay out
