178 December 3, 1783 nately be under the necessity of receiving it.” They advance each a month’s pay, and open a door for donations from others not of the Society, and for the charitable purpose of raising a fund as well as for the political one of engaging the leading men of each State in the in terests of the order, they have the following rule: “And as there will at all times be men in the respective States eminent for their abilities and patriotism, whose views may be directed to the same laudable ob jects with those of the Cincinnati; it shall be a rule to admit such char acters as honorary members of the Society for their own lives only: Provided that the number of the honorary members does not exceed a ratio of one to four of the officers and their descendents.” The quotations I have made are the words of the Genl. Association so that it seems to be the offspring of patriotism, friendship, and humanity. This account of the Cincinnati is taken from a peice signed Cassius and supposed to be written by Aidanus Burke Esqr. one of the chief justices of the State of So. Carolina, intitled “Considerations on the Society or Order of Cincinnati; lately instituted by the Major Generals, Brigadier-Generals, and other officers of the American Army. Proving that it creates a race of hereditary Patricians or Nobility. Interspersed with remarks on its consequences to the freedom and happiness of the Republic. Addressed to the People of South Carolina, and their Representatives.” 9 The motto is “blow ye the trumpet in Zion.” Cas sius is mistaken in calling Major General Baron Steuben President; Genl. Washington I am well informed is at the head of this Society, and therefore I have so far alterd his account. The President of this State John Dickinson Esqr. and the Super-intendant of finance are honorary members. This peice is keenly written, and I believe that the blast of Cassius’s trumpet will alarm the continent. 10 He says “it is in reality and will turn out to be an hereditary peerage; a nobility to them and their male issue, and in default thereof to the collateral branches: what the lawyers would call—A title of peerage of Cincinnati to them and their heirs male, remainder to their heirs general.” That “the order of Cincinnati usurp a nobility without gift or grant, in defiance of Congress and the States.” That “the order is self created and an infringement of the general law of the union.” That this order is planted in a fiery, hot am bition and thirst of power; and its branches will end in tyranny.” That “The Cincinnati will soon be corrupted and the spirit of the people depressed; for in less than a century it will occasion such an inequality in the condition of our inhabitants, that the country will be composed only of two ranks of men the patricians or nobles, and the rabble.” He says “I have the honour to tell Baron Steuben, that though an order of peerage may do very well under the petty princes of Germany; yet in America it is incompatible with our freedom; and instead of a bond of political union, it would on a future day prove a source of civil dissension
