December 7,1783 185 nor consider the Necessity of securing to Posterity the Blessings which are at their Disposal. There are several Weighty Reasons to support the late Decissions of Congress. It was necessary to accommodate the several Parts of the Continent, some of which were greatly agitated, & dissatisfied with the first Determination of Congress. It was necessary in Order to destroy Systems, which would finally have ended in abso lute Aristocracy—the Effects of which have been too apparent for sev eral Years past. It would not have been possible that Congress should ever have been a free & independent Body in the City of P a. Plans for absolute Government, for deceiving the lower Classes of Peo ple, for introducing undue Influence, for any Kind of Government, in which Democracy has the least possible Share, originate, are cher ished & disseminated from thence. With Respect to accommodating the several States in the Union, it is a Matter of absolute Necessity. The seven eastern States may, by the Iron Hand of voting, carry the Seat of Congress much more North ward than it really ought to be, & accommodate themselves very well. But it is unnatural to suppose that the Southern states would chear- fully submit to such a Decission; they openly declare that they cannot, and will not; and as a federal Town cannot be erected without their Concurrence; the final Event must have been, that Congress would have again fallen into the City of P a, & there remained, until the several States for Want of Confidence in them, should have voluntarily put an End to their Existence; which, without pretending to have the Gift of Prophesying, one might easily foresee would not be a very dis tant Period. As to the Matter of travelling one or two hundred Miles farther, it is of no Weight. The Climate has some. But if Congress can dispatch all their Business in the Fall & Winter, which they certainly may do in future, Our pointed Objection against a southern Climate will not exist at those Seasons of the Year. I am therefore fully of the Opinion that public Harmony & Concord are Objects of no small Consequence in the Union & that private Inconvenience ought always to give Way to them. That Systems of Intrigue & Influence have been laid, that they are too strongly rooted already, is but too well known to those who have had a Share in public Business for these several Years past. A Recital of the various Measures & Manoeuvres, that tend to corroborate the Opinion, would be too tedious for a Letter. I need only say, that the sensible Part of those who are deeply engaged in the intrigueing plans, are most violent against the Decission of Congress, respecting two Places of Residence, that they have ever since, had strongly marked in their Countenances, an evident Air of Dejection. Their un expected disappointment seems to have irritated them much, & we must be prepared to meet a Torrent of Abuse & many scurrilous Ob servations. The Prostitutes to Influence are capable frequently of mak-
