186 December 7, 1783 ing the wrong seem to be Right. But with a Jealous, well informed People, Truth will prevail; & there is little Danger of their condemn ing honest, well meant Endeavors to serve them. The System of Influence began, when the United States were re duced to the most deplorable Situation, on Account of their Finances; when the virtuous Spirit of the People began to Subside, & when among many an Indifference to the Cause began to be too manifest. At this fatal Moment the eagle eyed Politician of our great Ally, discov ered the absolute Importance of the Aid of his Master, & the critical Situation of the United States. It was then he ventured to propose that Congress should subject their Peace Commissioners to the absolute controul of a foreign Court. It was then found to be necessary to es tablish Ministers of State, a Financier, a Secretary at War, & a Secretary for foreign Affairs. It was necessary to place Congress in a Situation before the Close of the War that the Members of that Body, excepting a chosen few, should know little or nothing of the Negociations abroad. It was necessary to create an Office of foreign Affairs, & that the Chevalier & his Secretary should be the Persons behind the Scene to manage & direct all the Measures there of. In the Beginning of the year 1781 Congress found themselves extremely embarass’d—they had no money, nor any Credit—the southern States were some of them abandonned to, & others of them overrun by the Enemy. The Delegates from those States found it impractible for the eastern States to afford them much Assistance; & some from Despair of other Means, & others probably from less virtuous Motives, agreed to give up the united States to foreign Power, perswading themselves & en deavoring to perswade others, that disinterested Benevolence alone, was the Principle from which that Court always acted. All homage was due & it became Treason to speak, think or even look, as if one sup- pos d it possible that she should do us an Injury, or act from inter ested Motives. The Weakness & the Wickedness of the southern States placed the united States in a most humiliating Situation, opend the Door of Intrigue, which has been disclosing more & more every year Since. I have no Doubt their Object was to [...] their own Country; & for this Purpose, they became humble devoted Worshippers of the golden Image—And every Person that did not flatter, & dance Atten dance as much as they, was immediately [set] down as having a con tracted, illiberal Mind. Attention and a smile elated the one Party, whilst a cold formal Reception & often a pointed Neglect, markd evidently the point of Light In which the other was viewed. In this Situation was Congress, when the great Officers of State commenced. The Financier & Secretary for foreign Affairs 1 were ad mirably well adapted to support, and not only so, but to become the principal Engines of Intrigue. The first mentioned Officer, is a Man of inflexible Perseverance. He Judges well in almost all Money Matters;
