December 7, 1783 187 and mercantile Transactions. He well knows what is necessary to sup port public Credit. But never thinks it necessary to secure the Confi dence of the People, by making Measures palatable to them. A Man destitute of every Kind of theoretic Knowledge; but from extensive mercantile Negociations, he is a good practical Merchant; more than this cannot be said with Justice. He Judges generally for himself; and acts with great Decision. He has many excellent Qualities for a Fi nancier, which however do not comport so well with Republicanism, as Monarchy. Ambitious of becoming the first Man in the united States, he was not so delicate in the Choice of Means, and Men for his Purpose, as is indispensably necessary in a free Government. The good Ally of the united States could assist him in Money, & he was heartily dispos’d to make her very grateful Returns. The United States abound with Men absolutely devoted. With such a Financier and with such Materials, it is easy to conceive what an amazing Power he would soon acquire. He stood in need of foreign Support, & they stood in need of him; thus far the political Machinery was in Unison, and re publicanism grated harsh Discords. The Secretary for foreign Affairs was a Man of more acquired Knowledge, and less natural Ability. A Person as completely devoted to promote all the Views and Wishes of our good Ally, as his Minister and Secretary could possibly be. His Office was misterious, & secret to all those, who ought to have a perfect Knowledge of all it contain’d. It was undoubtedly public to all those, to whom it ought to have been a profound Secret. Two foreigners were private Secretaries in that Of fice; one of which it is probable was (a Disciple of the Sarbonne) educated a Jesuit, the other had been a french Priest. 2 With this Arrangement, it is impossible to suppose that any Thing of Importance, would not be communicated immediately to such as the Interest of the united States required, should not know it. More real Injury resulted from this Arrangement, than could possibly have done, if there had been no Office and no pretended Secrets. It was a Snare to our faithful for eign Ministers, and a secure Asylum, to such as were dispos’d to pros trate the Honor & Dignity of the United States, before the polluted Shrine of Monarchy. In this Situation it was impossible to support an honest Man; All our foreign Ministers, excepting one, have felt very severely the Effects of this unaccountable System. It is strange that so many, who seem to be republicans, were so easily drawn into the Snare, and that they either could not, or would not see, that it was giv ing up at once, all the Priviledges for the Preservation of which we had freely lavish’d our Blood & Treasure. It was fortunate for the United States, that the Secretary at War, 3 was a true Republican, and totally oppos’d to Intrigue & aristocratical Measures—had Genl. Schuyler, who nearly carried the Choice, been plac’d in that Office, It is a great Question in my Mind, whether it
