188 December 7, 1783 would have been practicable for Congress, to have disbanded their Army. The Financier only wanted a Person in that Office who would go any Lengths with him: a Number of Officers as well as Citizens were ripe for the Measure. It had undoubtedly been deliberately di gested—And the Finance Office was probably the Center of Motion. I am well informed that an Attempt was made to draw in the late Secre tary at War—But he checkd it with a Firmness, that will always do him Honor. Such a Triumvirate, would have been too powerful for the United States; and Heaven only knows what Kind of a Form our federal Government would have assum’d. The present, by that Party, is held in the utmost Detestation, & they will persevere inflexibly in their Attempts for any Alteration, by Intrigue, & by open Force, when Matters are matured, & promise more Success, than at present. These Plans, in which our good Allies, were undoubtedly more than idle Spectators, originated in the Beginning of the year 1781 & oper ated fully before the End of the Year. Having given you a general View of the prevailing politics of Congress at that Time, I hope it will not be altogether useless to com municate to you, as far as my Memory serves me, The Reasons that were urged in Support of several important Decisions of Congress re specting our foreign Ministers. The first took Place in June 1781 a few Days before I Join d that Body. It respected your Commission for Peace. 4 The Business was all matured before I arrived, therefore I am not well able to say, what suggested to Congress the Idea of an Alter ation. However I had not to look any farther, to satisfy myself, after I had perused the several Letters that pass’d between you & the C. de v s respecting the Resolutions of Congress of the 18th of March 1780; & also the Publication of your Commission, for a commercial Treaty with great Britain. That you might be restricted as to the free exercise of your own Judgment; If Nature had not made you servile & submissive, it was expedient that you should [be] (made so it possible) pointedly instructed. I find by the secret Journals, that after New In structions were made out for you alone, before the final Completion, the Report was recommitted, with Directions to the Committee to confer with the Chevalier. I find the Committee reported to Congress several Amendments propos’d by him, the most material of which was “and you are ultimately to govern yourself by the Advice of the Minis ter of his most Christian Majesty,” &ca. The Amendments were all said to be carried in the affirmative; the yeas & nays on the above Clause, shew that there were but Eight States in Favor of it. And it has always been a Question whether the Instructions were valid, as nine States never agreed to them and the Confederation requires the Assent of nine States, on all Questions relating to Treaties. But it was not suffi cient to let it rest here; A Treaty of Peace was a very important Matter to the united States; too much so, to be committed to any Individual. Two great Objects in that Treaty, would be, the Fishery & western Ter-
