December 7, 1783 193 It was concluded by some in Congress from a Passage or two in Mr. Laurens’s Letter to them, after he first met you in Holland, that he was not well pleased with the Reception you gave him—or that you did not properly Estimate the Value of his Services, in not accepting of his Assistance in negociating a Loan. 10 I beleive some wish’d at that Time to make a Difference between you, if possible; & the sys tematical Junto were capable of framing here, & disseminating there, (& vice versa) what they pleas’d. If I remember rightly the Passages hinted at, were not of much Consequence, & did not seem to be dic tated by Disappointment. You will pardon me in candidly mentioning to you the Effects of your long Journal, forwarded after the signing of the provisional Treaty. It was read by the Secretary in Congress. It was too minute for the Delicacy of several of the Gentlemen. They appeared very much disposed to make it appear as ridiculous as possible; 11 several ungen erous Remarks were made upon it, as being unfit to be read in Congress, & not worth the Time expended in reading it. The Day after it was read, the Delegates of Masstts. found on the Table of Congress your Letter addressd to J. Jackson or the Delegates. 12 A Pas sage in that Letter led them to conclude that your Journal was not in tended for Congress, as you mention that you had enclosed for his Pe rusal a Journal; and there was none enclosed. They therefore agreed to move that the Journal might be delivered to them. This Motion soon found Opponents. It was then said that it contained Matters of great Importance, which you had not mentioned in your other Let ters, but we examined your other Letters, & found all the great Mat ters touch’d upon, & the smaller ones omitted. The Secretary for for eign Affairs, was sent for to know whether it came address’d to him; he produced three several Covers with your Seal, all directed to him, and the foldings corresponded to those of the Journal: after this, we let the Matter subside, as we found we should loose the Question; & also, that a Number of the Members were convinced, that there was some Mistake: nothing was said against it afterwards. Whatever your Intentions were respecting your Journal, it was necessary for us to take the Measure we did; and it had a very happy Effect. By a Letter lately received from Mr. D it is probable he has left the C 1 of St. P sometime since. 13 If my Memory would serve me at this distant Day, to relate the various Manoeuvres with Respect to him, it might serve to show how compleatly the System has oper ated here, as well as in Europe. Mr. Dana’s Character was fix’d as an Antigallican, from the first Let ter he wrote to Congress from St. P , after he had conferd with the french Minister at that Court. He wrote as an independent Man ought to. He gave his Sentiments freely upon the politicks of France. This
