194 December 7, 1783 Mode of thinking, however well founded, was very unpalatable to Congress in general. At that Time he ought not to have committed his own Tho’ts to Paper—much less ought he to have wrote so freely against Gallican Measures without Cyphers. As Congress never re ceived but One Copy which was either the Duplicate, or triplicate, the others must have fallen into Hands of our Ally, And consequently in jure us extremely. The frequent Instances of her Generosity forbids every illiberal Sentiment. It indicates a little, contracted & Jealous Mind which would enter into the Minutae of their Politicks, & take every Opportunity to make unfavourable Inferences from mere Ap pearances only. This seem’d to be the Light in which this Letter was viewed. It was necessary therefore to point out to Mr. D the Line of Conduct which he ought to pursue: to let him know that Congress would not listen to any In sinuations against our great & good Ally, and to damp that Ardor which he seem’d to discover, for displaying his Ministerial Commission. A Lengthy Report was consequently made upon his Letter; the Work of John Morin Scott, in which Mr. D ’s Conduct was criti cized upon unreasonably—and set in a very unfavourable point of Light. This Report could not obtain the Sanction of Congress; It was therefore referred to the Secretary for foreign Affairs, for a new Draught, which was not much less severe. It was agreed that both Draughts should be postponed, and a short Resolution was proposed, and adopted. I mention this Circumstance, because I am informed, that previous to the sending forward the Resolution, Mr. R. R. L n forwarded one of those unauthentic Draughts; which, if true, was an unpardonable Piece of Cunning in him—for there was a Debate in Congress how those Drafts should be disposed of; & it was the Sense of Congress, that they should die. That Mr. L n was capable of this, is but too evident, from many Specimens of his Disposition to In trigue. Ever afterwards, the Systematical Junto, levelled their enven omed Shafts against him, Mr. D, & however important it might be to the united States, to have a Treaty with the Empress, they preferred the Sacrifice of that Advantage, rather than that Mr. D. should have the Honor of negociating that Treaty. 14 So strong has the Current been in favor of Gallican Politicks, that I am perswaded the Party here, were mortified at your Success with the united Netherlands, & were very content with the Ill Success of Mr. Jay as well as Mr. D. It was long since evident that Mr. J and Mr. Carmichael did not agree entirely. But before it had fully opened—there was an Attempt made in Congress, to transfer Mr. C- to the Minister at Verseilles. The Motion set forth, that his Services were no longer necessary at the Court of Madrid, and that a Secretary was necessary to the Com mission at Verseilles, that Mr. Carmichael be accordingly appointed to the said Commission, or to this Purport. It is not the Usage to make
