December 7, 1783 195 such Appointments without a Nomination & Ballot. It was therefore objected to. The Question was divided, & agreed to, that Mr. C ’s Services were not necessary at the Court of Madrid. The Party who made the Motion were very much perplexed how to vote—for if they should agree to it & then not obtain the Transfer, they would defeat themselves. This really happened, near two years ago, & they have been very content to let Mr. C continue from that time to this. 15 The Marquis LaFayette has zealously interested himself in all our important Matters. He assumes the Language of a true born Ameri can, & is a very popular Character in the Country. But if I Mistake not he is deeply immersed in European Politicks, which are the worst that can possibly exist for America. When he last left this Country he went with an evident Design to assist our Commrs. in negociating the Peace. It was pretty plainly intimated that he wish’d to be one of the Number. Had he been added to them, it would not have been more extraordinary, than some other Matters that have taken Place. An In struction however to you, to consult and advice with him, was car ried. 16 I do not apprehend you were much the wiser for the Informa tion you might have obtain’d from that Quarter. Few Americans are worthy to be trusted in some of the most important concerns of the United States—& not a single Foreigner. Doctor Franklin has long been urging Congress to make his Grand son a Minister; his last Letter presses them on this Subject & is accom panied with a particular Request purporting to be from the Minister of Sweden. 17 Nothing is to be feared from these Instances—for I am sure at present, that Congress will not make him a Minister; & I hope the Period never will arrive. It is said he has served an Apprenticeship; But with such a Master, & such Examples, he must be tenfold the worse for it. The little Conversation I had with Mr. Thaxter led me to this narra tive. I wish I had Time to arrange it better & not only so, but to exam ine our foreign Papers, from which, I doubt not that I could make many Extracts that would be worthy of communicating. You will I think be convinced that french Politicks have a great As cendency among us. They have taken very deep Root. May Heaven fi nally extricate us from all foreign Intrigues. RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). In Osgood’s hand, though not signed. Endorsed by John Adams: “reed 5 April.” 1 That is, Robert Morris and Robert R. Livingston. 2 The references are to Pierre-Etienne Du Ponceau, under secretary for foreign af fairs, and the Rev. John P. Tetard, for whom see these Letters, 9:367n, 18:153; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:100-101; and JCC, 24:347. 9 That is, Gen. Benjamin Lincoln of Massachusetts. 4 See these Letters, 17:302, 310, 320, 339-40. 5 John Thaxter, Adams’ secretary. 6 See these Letters, 19:114-17.
