202 December 16, 1783 we could be brought to act as one united nation she would make ex tensive concessions, but under present appearances she has no in ducement to this as she is not afraid of retaliation: and conclude by observing that if in our commercial system we do not act collectedly ‘we shall soon find ourselves in the situation in which all Europe wishes to see us, viz. as unimportant consumers of her manufactures and productions, and [as] useful labourers to furnish her with raw materials.’ We have no certain prospect of nine states in Congress and cannot ratify the treaty with fewer. Yet the ratifications are to be ex changed by the 3d of March. We have received a copy of the Dutch preliminaries. G.B. keeps Na- gapatnam, and restores all other places taken. The Dutch are still to pay them the usual salute at sea. There being at present nothing else worthy a communication to you, I subscribe myself with great esteem Dr. Sir Your friend & servt., Th. Jefferson RC (NN); reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:385-87. 1 Not found. 2 That is, on Saturday, December 13. See JCC, 25:809-10. s These documents had arrived December 4 and were read on the 13th, for which see Hugh Williamson to William Blount, December 5, note 1. They were referred to a com mittee chaired by Jefferson that was ordered “To prepare a form of ratification” for the treaty. The committee’s report, read and entered this day, was finally agreed to in al tered form onjanuary 14, 1784. See JCC, 26:22-23, 29-31; PCC, item 29, fols. 315-21; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:384-85, 462-65. See also William Ellery to Benjamin Huntington, December 19, note 3. 4 A copy of David Hartley’s June 1 memorial responding to the American commis sioner’s proposal “for a universal and unlimited reciprocity of intercourse and com merce” between the United States and Great Britain is in the Jefferson Papers, DLC, and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:465—69. James Monroe to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir. Annapolis, December 16th, 1783. I am particularly happy to hear by your brother, that you have al most recovered from the indisposition, with which you have been lately afflicted: an event I must consider fortunate to the state and your family, for I flatter myself, when perfectly restored, you will not withdraw yourself from the public service. It must be hoped that those measures, which have hitherto, will not always, prevail; as to establish in our public councils, a greater regard for public faith, and in private life, for morality, your exertions joined with those of some worthy men, must certainly be more successful. I am called on a theatre to which I am a perfect stranger. 1 There are before us some questions of the utmost consequence that can arise in the councils of any nation: the peace establishment; the regulation of our commerce, and the ar-
