December 17, 1783 207 for treaties of commerce have come to Dr. Franklin from several Euro pean courts, and others are ready to treat. Denmark, Portugal, Sar dinia, the Emperor of Morocco have made overtures. The last is so well disposed that he has issued orders to his armed vessels to molest no American, and has sent a person to Paris to attend any person del egated from us to his court. Great Britain will send no minister to America till she receives one from thence. The Emperor of Germany cannot from the custom of his court. Our Minister Mr. Dana is on the return from Petersburg: nothing being done there, tho’ probably their dispositions were become favourable at the time it was thought necessary by his recall to shew we should no longer be supplicants any where. It is to be noted that the observation of our ministers in the in closed extract ‘that the present aspect of our affairs has somewhat abated the ardor of the European nations to form connections with us’ is posterior in time to the state given above. I recollect nothing im portant enough to be added to this sketch of our affairs in Europe and of those of Europe itself. The former method of correspondence by joint letters from the delegates to the Executive has been liable to some difficulties. The same object does not always make the same impression on different eyes. Of consequence it might happen that by pursuing the method of joint representation, much must be kept back because all had not formed the same ideas of it. Being sensible that frequent and full communications are for the public good, we have agreed to adopt the following plan of official correspondency with your Excellency if it shall meet with your approbation. Resolutions of Congress and other solemn things which call for authentic notification we will communi cate jointly. But all other matters which admit differences of opinion we propose shall be communicated weekly by some one gentleman of the delegation, having previously shewn his letter to his collegues. If they think he has omitted any thing or represented it differently from their own view of it, they reserve a private and separate right of writ ing to your Excellency their separate sentiments. In this way we think you will receive fuller informations and that you may judge for your self where you find a difference of opinion. The duty of correspon dence is made mine for the present month, and will be taken up by my collegues successively in the order of their nomination, each exer cising it a month. 5 I have the honour to be with sentiments of the most profound es teem & respect Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble servt. Th. Jefferson RC (PHi); reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:388-90. 1 Not found. 2 See Jefferson to Edmund Pendleton, December 16, note 3; and William Ellery to Benjamin Huntington, December 19, notes 3 and 4. 3 Not found, but for speculation on what the extract might have contained, see Jeffer son, Papers (Boyd), 6:390n.
