210 December 18,1783 worse, the better.” To what a despera[te ...] our affairs may be worked up—and how [many?] more mouths are to be opend in favor of 5 [...] by such an universal obstruction of p[...] where, in many cases it might be done, [ti]me only can discover. To use the phrase of the gentlemen of the turf, I look on the contest betwixt us 8c the Continen- talists to be now purely a trial of our wind—on the ground of argument they have confessedly no advantage. By the enclosed copy of a certificate you will see what Maryland has been doing in favor of the Holders of L.O. certificates. 3 I am told large Sums have been taken into their treasury. Would it not be better for us to adopt a similar mode—and to put on a heavier impost, with an excise on the back of it, to pay the intrest, which should annually arise to our own citizens, 8c trust the Union for compensation, than to think of giving Congress a revenue, to be at their disposal? With sincere esteeme, I am, 8cc. D. Howell RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). 1 Paul Allen was a deputy for Providence in the Rhode Island Assembly. Bartlett, Records ofR.I., 9:122, 392, 688. 2 Although clearly dated September, it is evident from Howell’s first two sentences that this letter was written in December. 3 Enclosure not identified, but for a discussion of Maryland’s action in behalf of Maryland loan office certificate holders, see E. James Ferguson, “State Assumption of the Federal Debt during the Confederation,” Mississippi Valley Historical Review 28 (1951): 417. For the act authorizing this relief for such Maryland certificate owners, see Laws of Maryland, Made since M,DCC,LXIII.. .. (Annapolis: Frederick Greene, 1787), 1782. Chap. XXV. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Annapolis 18th December 1783. I wrote your Excellency, in great haste, a Letter by last Post, 1 requesting the favor of you to hurry Colo. Bedford down. I now, at more leisure, take the liberty of troubling you again. There has been very little business done in Congress since they met here. The time has been chiefly spent in reading dispatches, Memorials &ca. There have been many Letters received from our Ministers abroad, particularly Mr. Adams, 2 who appears to be a Man of great in dustry, and desirous of promoting the welfare of his Country. He men tions a conversation which he had with the Prince Stadtholder who finds fault with Congress for not sending ambassadors rather than Min isters to the Courts of Europe, and thinks we ought to assert our right, lest hereafter it may be disputed. He also communicates the substance of a conversation between him and the Sardinian Minister, who is of opinion that it would be respectful, and have a good effect, if
