December 18, 1783 211 Congress were to send Circular Letters to all the Powers of Europe, in forming them of our independence. That such Letters would have fa vorable answers. Mr. Adams is of opinion that a connexion with Ger many would have a tendency to make us appear more respectable in the eyes of the other powers; but above all recommends that our Citi zens should be inspired with proper ideas of their own importance and independence. He informs us that a Treaty between the Emperor of Germany and the Empress of Russia, offensive against the Porte, and defensive against all Christian Powers, had been concluded. That this embarrasses the French Ministry, as it was a very serious question whether or not they should involve themselves in a war with two Chris tian Powers in behalf of the Turks. The Emperor & Empress sent a Courier to inform the King of Prussia of their Treaty. His answer was, that he received the information with that sensibility which matters of such high importance meritted. Dr. Franklin mentions that Mr. Montgomery, of Alicant, had entered into a Negotiation with the Emperor of Morocco. That the Emperor was inclined to Treat with us, and that a Person was then in Spain on his way to Paris for that purpose. That in the meantime the Emperor had given orders to his Cruizers not to molest our ships on the open sea. That Portugal, as well as the other Powers, hesitated about Treat ing, and assigns as a reason the unsetded state of our Government, of which the removal of Congress from Philadelphia afforded an in stance. The Pope’s Nuncio had sent him a note, of which he inclosed a copy, mentioning Civitta Vecchia, and another Port where we might carry on a beneficial Trade; and requesting leave of Congress, for his Holiness the Pope to send over an Ecclesiastical officer by the name of a Bishop or Prefect, tho’ the former would be preferred, in order that the People of the Catholic Faith, residing here, might have the benefit of Orders and Confirmation without going to a foreign State. 3 That formerly they depended on such an officer residing in London; but the seperation of the two Countries seemed to make a new arrange ment necessary. He also inclosed a copy of a Letter which he received from the Grand Master of the order of St.John of Jerusalem (to whom he had sent one of his Medals) expressing great affection for the United States of America, and the pleasure it would give him to see the ships of this Country at the island of Malta. Mr. Laurens, at London, forwarded Bridgen’s and Walter’s second proposition for furnishing the United States with Copper Coin at 14/8d per lb.4 Mr. Dana, at Petersburg, communicated an Account of the Treaty of Germany & Russia, and mentioned his opinion that France & Prussia were interested in preventing the aggrandizement of the House of Austria—acknowledged the Receipt of his Letters of recall, and was of opinion that an advantageous Treaty with Russia might now be made.
