December 23, 1783 221 4 That is, Henry Harford (1758-1834), the illegitimate son and heir of Frederick Calvert, the 6th Earl of Baltimore, who had died in 1771. Harford and Eden had ar rived in Maryland in August to recover their confiscated estates. See Bio. Diet, of Md. Lefs., 1:411-12; and Vera Foster Rollo, The Proprietorship of Maryland (Lanham, Md.: Maryland Historical Press, 1989), pp. 45, 129-35, 245—69. James McHenry to Margaret Caldwell [December 23, 1783] 1 Had I been obliged to count the sands as they fall from an hour glass, since last Friday, I could not have done it with more exactness than I have counted the minutes of each day. It is, my dear Peggy, im possible for me to tell or you to feel the solicitudes and suspenses I have experienced. I am now become reasonable and do not think you are sick: but this does not relieve me. I do not think you have ne glected me; but this does not place me at rest. I suppose that some suf ficient cause must have intervened to prevent me getting your letter, as clouds intervene and prevent the sight of the sun. But I will say no more on this subject, for I do not wish to communicate any distress this incident has caused me to my affectionate Peggy. To day my love the General at a public audience made a deposit of his commission and in a very pathetic manner took leave of Congress. It was a solemn and affecting spectacle; such an one as history does not present. The spectators all wept, and there was hardly a member of Congress who did not drop tears. The General’s hand which held the address shook as he read it. When he spoke of the officers who had composed his family, and recommended those who had contin ued in it to the present moment to the favorable notice of Congress he was obliged to support the paper with both hands. But when he commended the interests of his dearest country to almighty God, and those who had the superintendence of them to his holy keeping, his voice faultered and sunk, and the whole house felt his agitations. After the pause which was necessary for him to recover himself, he pro ceeded to say in the most penetrating manner, ‘Having now finished the work assigned me I retire from the great theatre of action, and bidding an affectionate farewell to this august body under whose or ders I have so long acted I here offer my commission and take my leave of all the employments of public life.’ So saying he drew out from his bosom his commission and delivered it up to the president of Congress. He then returned to his station, when the president read the reply that had been prepared—but I thought without any shew of feeling, tho’ with much dignity. This is only a sketch of the scene. But, were I to write you a long let ter I could not convey to you the whole. So many circumstances
