222 December 23, 1783 crowded into view and gave rise to so many affecting emotions. The events of the revolution just accomplished—the new situation into which it had thrown the affairs of the world—the great man who had borne so conspicuous a figure in it, in the act of relinquishing all pub lic employments to return to private life—the past—the present—the future—the manner—the occasion—all conspired to render it a spec tacle inexpressibly solemn and affecting. But I have written enough. Good night my love, my amiable friend good night. 2 MS not found; reprinted from Steiner, James McHenry, pp. 69-70. 1 Although not dated by Steiner, this letter was obviously written after this day’s “pub lic audience” for General Washington, for which see JCC, 25:837-39. 2 On December 26 McHenry wrote his final letter to Peggy before leaving for Balti more and then Philadelphia where they were married on January 8, 1784. “Thank for tune my dearest friend that our session of assembly is at last finished; and that there is one reason less for my remaining much longer in this place.... I go to dine at the presi dent of Congress’s.... I can only be detained now by the definitive treaty. I shall how ever leave this in the hands of my colleagues, and leave this the beginning of next week.” Steiner, James McHenry, pp. 70-71, 75. When McHenry submitted his account to the state of Maryland the following year, he claimed “attendance in Congress in the year 1783 from the 11th June inclusive to 26 Deer, inclusive 199 days and 8 days itinerant charges @ 40/ per day, 414.0.0.” He re turned to Congress again March 27, 1784. James McHenry Account, MdAA. See also McHenry to William Paca, March 15, 1784. Thomas Mifflin to Certain States $ lr Annapolis December 23rd. 1783. I am directed by Congress to inform your Excellency “That the Safety, honor & good faith of the United States require the immediate attendance of your delegates in Congress. That there have not been during the sitting of the Congress at this place more than seven States represented viz. Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia & North Carolina, and most of these by two dele gates only, and that the ratification of the definitive Treaty and several other matters of great national concern are now pending before Congress which require the utmost dispatch and to which the assent of at least nine States is necessary.” 1 I have the honor to be with the highest respect Your Excellency’s obedt. humble Servt. Thomas Mifflin LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of New Hamp shire. NB. A similar letter was written to their Excellencies The Governors of Connecti cut, New York, New Jersey, South Carolina & Georgia.” 1 See JCC, 25:836-37. Mifflin also repeated this exhortation on December 26 when he sent another copy of this “Act" to the same states under cover of the following brief ex-
