December 24, 1783 223 planation: “I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency an Act of Congress of the 23d Instant referred to in my letter of the same date.” PCC, item 16, fol. 279. Thomas Mifflin to John Dickinson Sir Annapolis Decem. 23rd. 1783. I have the honor to inform you, that this day at twelve o’ Clock, His Excellency General Washington had a public audience of Congress, resigned his commission and took his leave of all the employments of public life. The General’s address & the answer of Congress I enclose for the Satisfaction of your Excellency & the Honorable Council. 1 The delegates of Pennsylvania will write to your Excellency by the next post & give you a detail of the business which has been acted upon in Congress since their arrival here. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excellency’s & Council’s obedt. Servt. Thomas Mifflin RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 1 See JCC, 25:837-39. Mifflin also sent copies of this enclosure with similar brief let ters of December 24 to the Dutch minister Pieter Johan van Berckel and to the French minister the chevalier de La Luzerne. PCC, item 16, fol. 278. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel R. Gerry DearComr Annapolis 24th Deer. [17]83. I have only a Moment to inform You that I have received your Favour of the 8th with the Inclosures, & am obliged to you for your punctuality in those Matters—they require no answer. Give me leave confidentially to inform You, that on my Journey from Philadelphia to this City, I saw an Annapolis paper in which a Master of a Vessel, who sailed to Nova Scotia in a Vessel belonging to Colonel Johonnot, and a Frenchman named Brutie, (who is said to be the Son of the Merchant that entrusted Colo Johonnot in France & shut him up at Baltimore) declares, that he (the Master of the Schooner) sailed with Colo Johonnot & Brutie on board for Nova Sco tia; that they proposed on the passage to cruise as pirates; that he re jected the proposal; that when they arrived at some port in Nova Sco tia, he was dismissed from the Vessel, & she sailed with Colo Johonnot & Brutie, & the rest of the Crew, on board, to cruise as pirates. These are the Circumstances in the publication as recollected by me, but as I read the paper only once, I am not certain of all the Facts. If I can ob tain the paper, I will inclose it, & request you to make this
