December 24, 1783 225 A second Letter of remonstrance to the delinquent States on this head was ordered yesterday. 3 A full representation would enable us to close the most material public business in two or three months, & have a recess. This I had proposed & written to some of my friends before I heard that it was the wish of the State. It would lessen the public expence—shew the people that Congress do not intend to be come a permanent body—And Delegates would attend more punctu ally at such short terms & the public business would be done with more dispatch. You must have heard that N. Hampshire has ordered their citizens to receive certificates for one years intrest due on L.O. certificates, which are to be taken in payment of the tax on the requisition of Sept. 4, 1782. 4 The power of the particular States to take such a measure without further order from Congress is not contested even by those who oppose the measure. I have wished that Congress would point out the mode—but the opposition against making any further advances in that way and the delay unavoidable in the case will perhaps justify, as you observe— “The States interfering in the business” It is cruelty in the extreme thus to delay doing justice, where it is practicable, in order to work up & thicken the Storm. I am sorry that we do not better coincide in opinion on the Subject of federal Towns. I shall reserve a more full discussion of this point to a personal interview, & only submit to you for the present, whether it was not better to adopt the measures we did than to have returned to Philadelphia—in which case, in all human probability, that would have been the place of our permanent residence? Nothing but drawn Bayonetts ever did drive Congress out of Philadelphia and there ap peared to me no sufficient reason to believe that any thing else ever would. A plan is now laid, if honestly pursued, to keep them out of any large city forever—And if that point is carried, it is of little conse quence in my view where they sit, or whether they have any federal Town—provided they have suitable accommodations. A perambula- tory Congress favors republicanism—a permanent one tends to inve torate power—Aristocracy—and Monarchy. I was greatly alarmed on hearing that Massachusetts had adopted the Impost. 5 I cannot yet learn what those saving clauses are. I perfectly agree with you that funds must be provided—but as you rightly ob serve in a constitutional way. I consider the Western Country as an im portant fund & hope that it will prove, in addition to State Imposts, State excises, & common taxation, a sufficient fund to secure the final payment of the national debt. At 1/8 Dollar per Acre it would extin guish a Debt of forty millions of Dollars. I hear of little being said or done about a Continental Impost to the Southward; I fear that Virginia will finally adopt it. 6 She is now in a
