226 December 24, 1783 good humor with Congress on account of our vote for a second federal Town on her Confines & accepting her cession on terms so advantageous to her. You very justly reprobate the dilatory & ineffectual mode of settling the public accounts. The Genl. Assembly of Pennsylvania has remon strated to Congress on this Subject, and reprehend some of the In structions given to the commissioners—particularly that which directs them to reexamine all certificates issued by our Quarter Masters, Commissaries, &c. They say in fine that it is their expectation that the Commissioners be governed by resolves of Congress & not by direc tions from the Office of Finance. This has been referred to Mr. M. & he has returned us a long report justificative of his Conduct & ex planatory of the whole business according to his views of it. 7 Here again we cannot take a single step for want of nine States. In this affair the public suffers extremely—but it is said to be of no consequence ’till funds are provided, &c. You wish to hear that Congress at their new place of residence are “devested of all party & local attachments. ” I am happy to give you such information. In what little business has been done hear I have not been able to discover the least tincture of poisonous influence. The Members appear to aim at the public good without regarding the dictates of any of their Servants; and I have the pleasure [to] inform you that we have some very amiable characters here at present. It is said that Mr. M. proposes to pay us a visit of some length. He will perhaps Give his friends previous notice of his time & get a full House of them to urge on his old System & which he may honestly pursue yet; for I have no Idea that he proposes to relinquish either his system, or his office untill his intrest & that of his friends in the public debt shall be secured by Funds in the Hands of Congress. I wrote you my mind on this head in my last. You observe that you are full of goods & more coming. I should think the plenty would reduce the price; & that it must be our intrest to have foreign goods cheap in our Markets—And our goods dear in theirs. The prices of our products, I should think would be naturally raised by a competition of purchasers from all nations. The fear ex pressed by some people that foreigners will take our trade into their hands & be our carriers as well as our Merchants appears to my weak apprehension very ill founded. Nature protests against such violence. The British 8c other European nations will soon find the bad policy as well as the impracticability of carrying their arbitrary orders into ef fect & of continuing them so much against the natural course of things. We have a natural right to carry our own trade—and a natural right will create in the event, an intrest in our favor, which will secure to us the exercise of this right. The W.I. Planters are already clam orous. All Europe will at length find their intrest in the freedom of our trade, as they do in our Independence.
