December 24, 1783 227 I confess it was an unpardonable omission in my last Letter not to have informed you of what we had done about the State’s accounts in Philadelphia; but as we did not neglect to do the business, I hope no in jury will accrue to the State. Mr. Milligan, the Comptroller General of the Treasury, in whose keeping the accounts are, promissed to write to Mr. Chinn on the Subject & concert the measures necessary to be taken thereon & to see that they were carried into effect at the public charge. Whereupon we left the business in his hands—confiding that the intrest of the State will not suffer in any event. You hope “removing to the South will not make me forget my old friends to the north. ” The hint, Sir, is very natural & it gives me no small degree of pleasure to find that you have a desire to retain an intrest in my friendship. You have, Sir, as the poet says “charissima pignora mei” “the dearest pledges of myself” in Providence. 8 My dearest Love—and five sweet prattling babes you have my whole earthly intrest—And in your estimation of me rests all my expectations in life. Be assured, Sir, my obligations to my friends in Providence—to the Town & to the State are too deeply graved in a faithful breast to be erased by time or dis tance. Sorry I am to have the least occasion to call in question the sin cerity of any of my friends regard for me. I will not call it in question. I will rather conclude that they consider me in their pay; and that it is my duty to carry on both sides of the correspondence. Mr. Ellery thinks I have written as much as six Quires of paper. And I have not reed above a quarter of a Quire—excepting Mrs Howells Letters. We left Philadelphia on the 8th Instant, having stayed for the ar rival of Mr. Stelle, & came thro’ Baltimore where we attended divine service on the Continental Thanksgiving day and arrived here on the 12th. There had been no Congress, as we expected, before our arrival. Mr. Ellery & myself have taken lodgings at a Mr. Millards near the State House. We are well accommodated with large & elegant apart ments & sufficient fare—but our living will, on the whole, come dearer here than in Philadelphia. The City stands on rising ground & looks into the Bay by a most beautiful prospect. The Severn runs by it on the North West & an other river or creek on the other side—so that we appear to be almost surrounded by water. The Soil is Sandy—and the walking good (tho the Streets are not paved) at all Seasons. The Shores are steep & the banks Sand & gravel. There are no morasses, salt-meadows—or stag nant waters. I should estimate the Houses from 4 to 500—the Inhabi tants, perhaps as many thousand. The State House & the House as signed for the President are spacious & eligantly finished, far exceeding those buildings in Philadelphia—Houses in general in the city are very large & look like palaces, compared with the huts of the peasants in the Country you pass through. This City is the Resi dence of wealthy land holders from an extensive circle. This is their
