December 27, 1783 237 RC (PHi: Newbold-Irvine Collection). 1 Apparently a reference to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull’s November 15, 1783, proclama tion on Connecticut’s land claims under their charter of 1662, for which see Susqueha-n- nah Co. Papers, 7:327. Thomas Jefferson’s Draft Resolution [December 27, 1783]* Resolved that however earnestly and anxiously Congress wish to proceed to the ratification of the Definitive treaty, yet consisting at present of seven states only they ought not to undertake that ratifica tion without proper explanations. 2 (1. Because the 9th article of Confederation takes from them the power, by declaring that Congress shall not ‘enter into any treaty unless nine states assent to the same. ’) 1. Because by the usage of modern nations it is now established that the ratification of a treaty by the sovereign power is the essential act which gives it validity; the signature of the ministers, notwithstanding their plenipotentiary commission, being understood as placing it, ac cording to the phrase of the writers on this subject, sub spe rati, only, & as leaving to each sovereign an acknoleged right of rejection. (2. Because it would be a precedent replete with danger to these states as under that on future occasions seven states in opposition to six may ratify treaties entered into by ministers in direct opposition to their instructions, though such instructions should have had the concurrence of nine states.) 2. Because ratification being an act of so much energy and sub stance, the authority to perform it is reserved to nine states by those words in the ninth article of Confederation which declare that Congress ‘shall not enter into any treaty, unless nine states assent to the same.’ 3. Because by the terms ‘enter into a treaty’ the Confederation must have intended that the assent of nine states should be necessary to it’s completion as well as to it’s commencement; the object having been to guard the rights of the Union in all those important cases wherein it has required the assent of nine states: whereas by admitting the contrary construction, seven states containing less than one third of the citizens of the Union in opposition to six containing more than two thirds may fasten on them a treaty, commenced indeed under commission & instructions from nine states, but concluded in express contradiction to such instructions and in direct sacrifice of the inter ests of so great a majority. 4. Because if 7 states be incompetent generally to the ratification of a treaty they are not made competent in this particular instance by the circumstances of the ratification of the provisional articles by nine
