238 December 27,1783 states, the instructions to our ministers to form a definitive one by them and their actual agreement in substance: for either these cir cumstances are in themselves a ratification, or are not: if they are, nothing further is requisite than to give attested copies of them in ex change for the British ratification; if they are not, then (seven states have no authority to supply any circumstance wherein they are defective) we re main where we are, without a ratification by 9 states and incompetent to ratify ourselves. 5. Because the seven states now present in Congress saw this ques tion in the same point of view only 4 days ago when by their unani mous resolution they declared that the assent of nine states was requi site to ratify this treaty and urged this as a reason to hasten forward the absent states. 6. Because such a ratification would be rejected by the other con tracting party as null & unauthorized, or, if attested to them by the seal of the states, without apprising them that it has been expedited by order of seven states only, it will be a breach of faith in us, a prostitu tion of our seal, & a future ground, when that circumstance shall be come known, of denying the validity of a ratification into which they shall have been so surprised. 7. Because there being still 67 days before the exchange of ratifica tions is requisite, (we may yet hope the presence of 9 states in time) and two 3 states only wanting to render us competent, we have the strongest pre sumptions that the measures taken by Congress will bring them for ward in time for ratification & for it’s passage across the Atlantic. And 8 because should we be disappointed in this hope, the ratifica tion will yet be placed on more honourable and defensible ground if made by 9 states as soon as so many shall be present, and then sent for exchange, urging in it’s support the small importance of an exchange of ratifications, a few days sooner or later, the actual impossibility of an earlier compliance, and that failures produced by circumstances not under the controul of the parties, either in points so immaterial as to call for no compensation, or in those which are material and admit of compensation, can never affect the validity of the treaty itself. MS (DLC: Jefferson Papers); MS (DLC: Madison Papers, Rives Collection). Both are in Jefferson’s hand; the second is a fair copy that Jefferson sent to James Madison in his letter of February 20, 1784. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:424-25. 1 This manuscript and the fair copy in the Rives Collection are undated, but in the fifth numbered paragraph Jefferson refers to a resolution of December 23 which was passed “only 4 days ago” (JCC, 25:836-37), and in the seventh paragraph he observes that there were only “67 days” remaining before the six-month deadline for the ex change of ratifications on March 3, 1784—67 days from this date. 2 Jefferson offered this resolution in opposition to Jacob Read’s motion of the pre ceding day for immediate ratification by the seven states represented, for which see Jef ferson’s Draft Resolution, December 26, note, and Hugh Williamson to Alexander Mar tin, March 19, 1784, note 4. The debate in Congress on the 26th and 27th, according to Jefferson’s testimony, pitted Read, Jeremiah Townley Chase, Arthur Lee, and Hugh
