December 29, 1783 239 Williamson against himself, William Ellery, Elbridge Gerry, David Howell, and James Monroe, for which see Jefferson to Madison, February 20, 1784, note 8; and Jefferson's autobiography in Jefferson, Works (Ford), 1:86-89. Since it had become clear after pro tracted debate that Read’s motion “could not be carried,” neither it nor Jefferson's counter-resolution were entered on the journals. For Jefferson’s attempt to reach a compromise on this issue, see Jefferson’s Draft Resolution, January 2, 1784. s Blank in MS (DLC); number supplied from MS in Rives Collection. Thomas Mifflin to George Washington Sir City of Annapolis 28th December 1783 This Letter will be presented to your Excellency by Mr Godin, a Re lation of Mr Van Berkel; who is on his Journey to South Carolina, with Mr Backer & Mr Barrow Vos. These Gentlemen have been introduced to me by Mr Robert Morris; a Copy of whose Letter I enclose. 1 Many Foreigners of Distinction, who have been desirous of viewing your Ex cellency at the Head of an Army, are still more anxious to see you in The Retired Scene of Domestic Life: and I could not refuse to Mr Godin & his friends, this Opportunity of paying their respectful Com pliments to your Excellency at your own House. We have had no Ac count, from the Potowmack since your Departure; and have been under great Apprehensions that the journey was disagreeable and dif ficult, from the Snow which fell on Wednesday Night. General Hand arrived here on Thursday and brought with him In structions to the Delegates of Pennsylvania in Congress, from the Ex ecutive of that State. I have copied the first Part of the Instructions, which relate to your Excellency; & now enclose them, as one Proof among Thousands of the affectionate Regard of your Fellow Citizens. 2 Mrs. Mifflin requests me to present her respectful Compliments to Mrs Washington 8c to your Excellency which I entreat you to accept from Your Excellencys most Obedt & humble Servt, Thomas Mifflin 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The enclosed copy of Morris’ December 15 letter to Mifflin, introducing “Mr. Peter Anthy. Godin as also Mr. Backer & Barrow Vos,” is in the Washington Papers, DLC. 2 For this December 16 Pennsylvania Council testimonial to Washington, see Pa. Archives, Istser. 10:151-52. 3 Washington’s January 14 response to Mifflin is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 27:301-2. Arthur Lee to Theodorick Bland Dear Bland Annapolis Deer 29. 1783 I write to you more to let you know I am alive and remember you
