240 December 29, 1783 than for any thing I have to communicate. Hitherto we have been just able to make up seven states. Nothing material therefore has been done. The only question of consequence has been whether seven states were federally competent to ratify the definitive treaty, after nine had ratified the provisional articles of which it consisted. Congress were divided in opinion and therefore nothing done. 1 The Massachusetts assembly have sent a letter to congress complaining of some unfair statements in the estimate of the national debt and of the article of contingencies in the financier’s account. 2 My love to Mrs. Bland & complements to all friends. Adieu. A Lee Tr (ViHi: Arthur Lee Transcripts). 1 See Thomas Jefferson’s Draft Resolution, December 27, 1783. 2 The Massachusetts legislature’s remonstrance concerning old Continental bills of credit had been cast in the form of an October 28 letter from Gov. John Hancock, which was read in Congress on December 18 and referred to a committee chaired by Hugh Williamson, for which see JCC, 25:815; and Massachusetts Delegates to Hancock, February 1, 1784. Hugh Williamson to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir, Annapolis 29th Deer. 1783 By the Committee Book it appears that a Letter or Memorial from Mr Du Radier was refer’d on June 2nd to Mr Fitzsimmons, Williamson & Izard. 1 The Letter was in French & was on the Subject of a Manufac ture of printed Linens, if I remember well; which the writer proposed to establish in America if properly encouraged. As Chairman of the Committee I presume the Letter was put into your Hands and I do not recollect that the committee was ever con vened on the Subject. I presume it was generally understood that Congress could do nothing in Such a Business. However for the Sake of order it is requisite that the Papers be all returned into the Secys. office before the Committee can be discharged. Being the only re maining member of the Committee it is my duty to account for the Papers, but I never saw them. Be so good as inform me whether you know any thing about them, or where it is likely that I may find them. 2 When I last had the Pleasure of seeing you, you mentioned some double charges that we should be exposed to in consequence of the manner in which Genl Lincoln’s Accots had been pass’d. 3 I wished to have had that matter obviated or rectify’d if possible & expected to have heard from the Comptroller of Accots before this Time on the Subject, but I believe no application has been made. I have the Honor to be, Dr Sr, Your obedt Servt Hu Williamson
