242 December 30, 1783 Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Annapolis 30th December 1783. Since the last Letter which I had the honor to write your Excellency, 1 containing intelligence drawn from communications made by our Ministers at foreign Courts, nothing material has oc curred, save the resignation of our commander in Chief on the 23d of this month, of which you will no doubt have seen a printed account, more accurate than any I could give, before this reaches you. Saturday last was the day I had appointed to leave Congress, and on Sunday my servant arrived here, having been sent for me: but as he brought an account of the general health of my friends, and as my leaving Congress at this time would have broke up the Council of the United States, I was induced to consent to continue here 8 or 10 days longer, in hopes that before the end of those days there will be a rep resentation from nine States to ratify the definitive Treaty, and to take up some other business of importance now before Congress. I have given Mr. Bedford notice of my determination by the Post 2 which will convey this Letter. As the office of Auditor of Accounts will require much of my atten tion for at least twelve months to come, and render it impracticable for me to give punctual attendance in Congress, I have come to a Res olution of resigning my Seat. I must therefore request your Excellency will be so obliging, when you go to Dover, as to present my duty to the Honble. the General Assembly, and inform them that, altho’ I think myself much honored by being one of their Delegates to Congress, yet, finding the duties of that appointment do interfere with those of Auditor of Accounts, I must beg leave to resign my Seat, that I may, without interruption, attend to the business of the other, less honor able, more laborious, and in our situation, equally important office. I wish Sir, this business may be taken up immediately after the meet ing of the Assembly. The present Delegates cannot serve longer than to the 1st day of February next, 3 and unless there should be a House pretty early in January, and this business be made their first care, the State will be unrepresented. I have observed that the Delegates in most of the other States have their appointments for one year to com mence from and after the first Monday in November, and untill others shall appear to take their Seats. By this means they keep up a constant representation. The General Assembly of this State rose on Friday last, having among other Laws, passed an Act empowering Congress to regulate Trade. The General Assembly of Virginia have passed a similar Law, and have also confirmed the Cession of the Western Country.
