258 January 4,1784 RC (MHi: Dana Papers). 1 This day Congress received Dana’s December 17 letter announcing his arrival in Boston and asking whether he should come to Annapolis “to render a more particular ac count of his late mission [to Russia],” which Congress immediately affirmed. See JCC, 26:4. 2 For Congress’ May 1782 rebuke of Dana, see these Letters, 18:469n.6. 3 That is, Robert R. Livingston. 4 Dana’s February 3 acknowledgement of this letter is in the Lee Family Papers, MH-H; and Richard Henry Lee, Life of Arthur Lee LL.D., 2 vols. (Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1829), 2:287. Thomas Mifflin to William Livingston Sir, Annapolis 4th Jan. 1784. 3 oClock P.M. I have already addressed three several dispatches to your Excellency of the 23d of November & of the 23d & 24th of December stating to you the arrival of the Definitive Treaty and the necessity, by an Article thereof, of its ratification and Exchange at Paris by the 3d of March next: I have also stated in those dispatches the particular situation of Congress. Nine States being necessary to a Ratification & Seven only being present. Apprehending that these Letters may have miscarried & having Reason to believe that the Representation from South Car olina will be compleat in a day or two, I have dispatched Col. Harmar my private Secretary with this Letter to your Excellency, informing you that if the Delegation of New Jersey attends in Congress without further delay we may yet ratify the Treaty in time. A Representation of Nine States to ratify the Definitive Treaty before the Time limited for its Exchange expires must appear to your Excellency too important to be longer delayed. 1 I have the Honor to be, Sir, with the highest Respect, Your Excel- lencys most obt. humble servant. Thomas Mifflin RC (MHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Although the definitive treaty was ratified with nine states on January 14, ratification was accomplished without the vote of New Jersey. John Beatty had arrived on the 13th, but the state was not able to cast a vote until February 25 when Samuel Dick finally ar rived to join Beatty. See fCC, 26:16-17, 97. The following letter from Jonathan Elmer to Dick written January 8 from “Bridge Town” contains information on the effort under way at this time to get two New Jersey delegates to Congress. “Since I saw you the other day I have recieved the Letter from our Colleague Dr. Beatty. I expect you will set out to join him in Congress as soon as convenient, which I hope will be very shortly. “Dr. Beatty informs me he has the Credentials with him, therefore nothing more is nesessary for you to do before you leave Home, but take and subscribe the Oaths of Government and Oath of Office as prescribed in the Supplement to the Election Law. That Law directs the Oaths to be taken before the Secretary of the State, but the last sit ting of the Legislature (I’m informed) altered it, and they may now be taken before any one of thejudges of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas.
