262 January5, 1784 on November 16, 1784, he resigned the post immediately and never returned to Congress. 6 In the FC Morris concluded with the following additional notes: 'The Capt. of this Ship is now waiting, I must reduce my Letter to a few Heads. “Mr. Willing and family, with all friends, were well three days ago. “Let Mr. Shettell have the inclosed papers when you looked them over. “No Convention likely to be agreed to by Our Censors—so writes Dr Rush. “I have a Cong Letter by me, which shall go by the packet. “Keep to yourself the public part of my Letter, or if shewed to anybody Let it be Mr. Shettell, to whom you [may] Communicate all or any part you please.” Charles Thomson to the Ministers Plenipotentiary Gentlemen, AnnapolisJany. 5. 1784. In Congress. I am directed to inform you that the definitive Treaty after a very long Passage arrived during an Adjournment of Congress from Prince ton to this Place. No more than seven States are yet assembled. These are unanimously desirous to ratify the Treaty and the measure will be taken up as soon as nine States are assembled. 1 In the meanwhile as the weather is severe and travelling extremely difficult from a heavy fall of snow, it is to be feared that the Ratification may not arrive in the time limited for the Exchange, and that Inconveniencies may arise un less the time for exchanging the Ratification should be extended. I am with the highest Esteem & Respect, Gentlemen, Your obedi ent humble Servt. Tr (MHi: Adams Family Papers). Addressed: ‘The honorable John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Jay & Henry Laurens.” 1 See Thomas Mifflin to the Ministers, January 14, 1784. See also Thomas Jefferson’s Draft Resolution, January 2, note. Elbridge Gerry to Francis Dana My dear Mr Dana Annapolis 6th January 83 [ 1784]. I have but a Moment, to express the Pleasure I feel at the News of your Arrival, after knowing Your Determination to leave St. Peters burg, without an audience, or finishing the Business of your Mission: but I am exceedingly mortified at the Circumstances last mentioned, because I think that a Treaty with the Court of Russia was necessary for the Extension of our Commerce, that it would have conciliated the Affection or rather the political Friendship of the Empress, & that if there was any Honor in the Negotiation, You was justly entitled to it.
