January6, 1784 263 But as the Measure is defeated by the Intrigues of a European Court, aided by her Dupes in America, 1 your presence here will be necessary, as well to prevent the ill Consequences which may result from your sudden Departure from the Court of Russia, as to do Justice to your Merit. I have taken the Liberty of recommending to a particular Friend of mine, your appointment to a Seat in Congress, 2 & wish for your assent to the Measure, if You continue a Member but one Month, for Reasons which You would approve of if present. I wrote to you by Governor Reed, 3 who sailed for Europe last Month, & directed the Letter to be opened by Mr Adams, in Case of your Return to America. Pray give my Compliments to Mrs Dana & Judge Trowbridge, & be assured I am on every occasion your sincere Friend & huml sert. E Gerry RC (MHi: Dana Papers). 1 Dana’s mission to Russia, and the role played by Secretary Robert R. Livingston in bringing about his departure, is also the subject of the following January 1784 letter to Theodorick Bland from Stephen Higginson, a recent Massachusetts delegate and An glophile critic of Livingston’s Francophile diplomacy. “Mr. Dana has returned from Russia, without having effected any thing. He had re moved every obstacle to his reception; had settled every point with that court; and waited only the news of the definite treaty being signed, to perfect his business: when he received a letter from our secretary of foreign affairs, which I have seen, telling him that congress did not wish him to form a treaty; and, farther, that his commission did not, in the opinion of congress, authorize him to complete one, but only to treat upon the terms proper to found one upon. This induced Mr. Dana to return with the best grace he could; for he knew that, after what he had stated to that court, he must have given them great offence, and rendered congress and himself very ridiculous, to have told them at the last moment that his powers were not sufficient for the business upon which he was sent thither. He therefore availed himself of his then ill state of health, and stated that as the cause of his departure. Mr. Secretary [Livingston] certainly wrote that which was false; for congress had, when Madison’s report for calling him home was under consideration last spring, thoroughly attended to his commission, and even Mr. Madison determined that his powers were plenary. This was done when the secretary was present, and Mr. Madison’s report was rejected; but the junto had de termined that Mr. Dana should come home, and that no treaty should be made with Russia, perhaps by the order of the Count de Vergennes, and the views of the junto must not be defeated; if congress could not be brought to order him home, Mr. Secre tary would do it himself.” Bland, Papers (Campbell), 2:114-15. 2 Dana, who had been a congressional delegate in 1777-78, was elected again on February 11 and returned to a seat in Congress on May 24, 1784. JCC, 27:418-19. 3 Not found. Eleazer McComb to Theodorick Bland Sir, Annapolis 6th January 1784 I beg leave to apologize for a mistake made by Dr. Tilton. When he was about setting out for Congress I gave him such papers as I judged
