January8,1784 265 would be useful to him—among others one containing my senti ments, in the form of a Speech, on the subject of the Cession of Vir ginia, written at the time that subject was under debate in Philadel phia; about April or May last. 1 This, I informed him, might suggest some ideas to him, provided he should find the Cession in discussion on his arrival at Princeton. I also gave him the rough draft of a motion for an instruction to the Superintendant of Finance to prevent the holders of Warrants drawn on the different States, from being benefit- ted by the depreciation between the date of the warrant and the time of payment. 2 This was essayed in consequence of some conversation which we had at Trenton, which I explained in a written paper put into your hands at Princeton. I intended also to have asked your opin ion on the motion, but had not an opportunity. I desired Dr. Tilton to do it, but instead of that he gave you the other Paper, thro’ Mistake. Tho’ I never expect to have the pleasure of seeing you again, yet, from the friendship I have conceived for you, I cannot forbear from setting this matter right. With respectful compliments to Mrs. Bland, I am, Sir, your most obt. Servt. RC (ViHi: Bland Papers). In the hand of Eleazer McComb, signature clipped. 1 McComb’s speech “on the subject of the Cession of Virginia” may have been deliv ered in the aftermath of Bland’s April 23, 1783, motion calling for congressional accep tance of Virginia’s offer, for which see JCC, 24:271-72. 2 No mention of this matter has been found in the journals of Congress. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir. Annapolis 8th. Janury. 1784. A report of a Committee to whom your Honrs. Letter to the Presi dent of Congress relating to the Brigantine Lusanna was refered, this morning laid on the Table a report, respecting that affair. The Secre tary informed me that Mr. Jefferson, who drew up the report, had sent it in; but desired it might not be read till he could attend, which the state of his Health did not permit to do on this day. 1 I have read the report, it contains a recital of the resolutions & pro ceedings of Congress relating to appeals, and of the powers given by the several Acts of New Hampr. to Congress in those cases, & con cludes with recommending a Resolution purporting that the Court of Appeals were not authorized by any resolutions of Congress to take Cognisance in the Case of the Lusanna. Genl. Sullivan in a Letter to Congress, and which was presented at the same time with your Honrs., has particularly, & in my opinion in a convincing manner, stated the objections against the proceedings of the Court of Appeals in this cause; 2 he hath also attended the Com-
