210 January 14, 1784 Family was in Health by the last Letters from Home, but Doctor Cooper was given over by his Physician. Be assured my dear sir I am on every Occasion Yours, Sincerely, EG [PS.] I shall propose to Congress a Resolution for approving in proper & honorable Terms the Negotiations of their plenipoes who negotiated the peace, but cannot say whether the Measure will be suc cessful. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 See Thomas Mifflin to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, this date. 2 See JCC, 26:4. 3 For this December 20 report, submitted by a committee consisting of Gerry, Thomasjefferson, and Hugh Williamson, see JCC, 25:821-28. Edward Hand to George Gray Sir 1 Annapolis 14th Jany 1784 I have the honor to Acquaint you for the information of the honble the General Assembly that Congress have this day Ratified the Defini tive Treaty of Peace between the United States of America & great Britain & to congratulate you on the great Occasion. By this opertunity some papers are transmitted by the Deligation to his Excelly. the President to be by him laid before the Honble the Genl. Assembly & Council which probably may claim the early Atten tion of your honorable house. 2 With the greatest respect I have the honor to be, Sir, your most Obedt. & most Hble. Servt. Edwd. Hand RC (PHi: James Clark Moore Collection). Addressed: “The Honble George Gray Esqr.” 1 George Gray was the speaker of the Pennsylvania Assembly. 2 See the following entry, note. Edward Hand to Jasper Yeates Dear Yeates Annapolis Jany. 14th 1783 [1784] I have the pleasure to Congratulate you on the Ratification of the Definitive Treaty, it has taken place This day. God grant the Peace may be perpetual & productive of every happiness to America, as I think it commences with the joint & full accord of all her good Citizens. I am very uneasie at not hearing from Lancaster Since I left it, I hope this does not Arise from the Indisposition of any of my dear Family or Friends. I beg my duty. Love & Compliments to them jointly & Indi-
