January 14, 1784 271 vidually. By Sundry resolves of the Legislature of Connecticut, laid be fore Congress yesterday (Copies of which are transmitted to Our Council & Assembly) you will See the Steps taken by that State to kick up a new dust About the Wyoming Lands. 1 Farewell dear Yeates, very Affectionately yrs. Edwd. Hand RC (NN: Hand Papers). 1 These papers undoubtedly consisted of the proclamation and letter of Gov. Jonathan Trumbull, and enclosed Connecticut Assembly resolutions, which were en dorsed by Charles Thomson: “Letter Novr 15. 1783. Governor Trumbull, Act & resolu tions of Assembly of Connecticut & proclamation of Governor. Read Jany 13. 1784. Re ferred to Mr Jefferson, Mr Lee, Mr Williamson.” See PCC, item 66, 2:256-64. David Howell to Benjamin Stelle Dear Sir, Annapolis Jany. 14, 1784. Yours of It Instant is before me. Your caution about writing by the Post was well founded. I have many things to communicate on that head; but my politics are not secret. The curse of Evedroppers on those who break open other folks Letters. Mr. Morris’s report on the remonstrance of Pennsylvania is referred to a Comee & the report of the Comee chosen at Princeton on your affairs is referred to the same Comee—in order to digest the whole & reduce it to a single report—And bring every thing which regards di rections to the Commissioners, under a simultaneous consideration. 1 This day, for the first time in this place, we have had nine States. We have ratified the Definitive Treaty; 8c make the injunctions 8c recom- menda[tions] to the States therein stipulated. I shall take the liberty to communicate to the aforsd. Comee the Sub stance of your hints—without hazarding you in the matter. You wish for my advice—keep a clear head—an honest heart—and an industrious hand (whenever you have any thing to do) 8c mind your own business. I am very sorry that you omitted sending the flute to my Son. I hope you will keep it safe & send it by the first safe opportunity. I arrived safely at this place this Friday night after I left Philada. 8c have taken Lodgings at a Mr. McHards, near the Stadt House, where our ac commodations are in a republican Stile—but sufficient. New-Hamp shire, Connecticutt, N. Jersey 8c R. Island are all hotelled together. Please to inform the good Parson 8c his agreeable family that I have requested you to present them with my most respectful compliments. Through divine goodness I have not suffered an hours indisposition since left you. I fear the Spring should I not be relieved before that Season comes on. Pray let me hear from you every Post. What news from Providence? I have not reed a Providence Gazette since I left Philada and very few
