January 14,1784 273 will be a source of wealth to the U. S. superior to that of any Power upon Earth. The Officers of our late Army, have constituted them selves a perpetual Body under the title of Cincinnati. Genl. Washing ton is at their head. It gives alarm to the People, & this seems to in crease. To one of your discernment it is unnecessary to say what may probably be the consequences of such an Association. It is conjecture! that the french are at the bottom of it. What intentions some may have in it, I will not conjecture; but very manifestly it may be produc tive of monarchy in this Country. If you think it will be acceptable to Mr. Jay, I shoud wish you to make my respects to him. His conduct abroad has given me the high est opinion of his abilities & virtue. Col. Harmar (who is sent with the Ratification) is a gentleman of very approvd integrity, & on whom you may rely shoud you want a per son of such a character. Farewell, AL. P. S. Mr. Dana arrivd at Boston from Petersburg a few weeks since. P.S. I presume you have heard that Dr. F. has written to Congress against you. His enmity you cannot be a stranger to, & you will be in dued to dispise this effort of it, when I assure you it, has no manner of effect. It is however justice due to him to say that he allows you to be sensible & honest. 3 RC (MHi: Adams Family Papers). Endorsed by Adams: “Mr Lee 14. Jan. 1784, ansd 6 April, reed 5th.” 1 See Thomas Mifflin to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, this date. 2 See Connecticut Delegates to William Williams, January 15, note 2. 3 In his letter to Robert R. Livingston of July 22, 1783, Benjamin Franklin had com mented on Adams’ “imaginary” fears “that Count de Vfergennes] and myself are con tinually plotting against him and employing the News Writers of Europe to depreciate his character, &c.” But Franklin was persuaded that Adams “means well for his Country, is always an honest Man, often a Wise One, but sometimes and in some things, abso lutely out of his Senses.” See PCC, item 82, 2:393-94; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:582. Thomas Mifflin to John Dickinson Sir, Annapolis 14thjany. 1784 This day nine States being represented in Congress, Vizt. Mas sachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Mary land, Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina, together with one Member from New Hampshire and one Member from New-Jersey, The Treaty of Peace was ratified by the Unanimous Vote of the Mem bers present.
