January 15,1784 281 N Carolina which I have the Honor to represent is greatly interested in this Subject and must be profited by every Arrangement that can be made for the regular disposal of naval Stores. We can furnish at least 130,000 Brls of Tar, Pitch & Turpentine every Year and there are two or three Houses in the State who would undertake to diliver any number of Brls not exceeding that mentioned at any Port or Ports which may be proposed. As Mr Carmichael has referd to the Trade of naval Stores in particular I have taken the Liberty to give you this gen eral Information on the Head & have only to add that I am assured you will not on this nor any other Subject neglect one opportunity of serving the United States and each of them in the most effectual man ner. I have the Honor to be &c &c H W FC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). Enclosed in Williamson to John Gray and Thomas Blount, February 16, 1784. 1 In a March 13, 1783, letter to Robert R. Livingston which had been received August 15, Carmichael had written that “the directors for the supply of the army and navy have engaged to give the preference to America for such articles as they may from time to time stand in need of from thence.” “I mention this,” he continued, “in order that the different members in Congress may be enabled to inform their constituents, who per haps might choose to furnish supplies of the produce of the States to which they belong to this country, and who may be able to do it on better terms than the parties I have rec ommended.” See PCC, item 88, fols. 352-60, item 185, 3:74; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:297. For Williamson’s initiative respecting these hints, see Williamson to John Gray and Thomas Blount, February 16, 1784. Connecticut Delegates to William Williams Sir Anapolis 15th Jan. 1784 We arrived at this place last Monday. 1 On Tuesday your letter to Congress with the address of the Honorable House of Representatives were read and referred to a committee, to wit, Mr. Arthur Lee and Mr. Jefferson of Virginia and Doctr. Williamson of North Carolina, they are informed that the General Assembly are now sitting, and we hope they will prepare a Satisfactory answer soon enough to be transmitted before the close of the session. 2 We are informed by the delegates of the Several States, that the leg islatures of Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Newjersy, and Massachusetts have passed laws to enable Congress to collect the impost agreably to the requisition, That New Hampshire Assembly in a Committee of the whole have agreed to the measure, but the act was not passed when the Delegate came away, that Rhode Island are not so averse to complying with the last requisition as the former, but don’t hear that they have as yet agreed to it, that ’tis probable the Car olinas will comply with it, Nothing has been heard from the State of
