January 15,1784 285 inspire the people of these United States with wisdom to improve the opportunity now afforded of becoming a happy nation. I need not recommend col Franks to your notice as you are already acquainted with him. He has great Merit for the early part he took & the sacrifices he has made in the late controversy & his steady adher ence to our cause. I long for the pleasure of seeing you, but forego that pleasure with the more ease as I am sensible you are usefully employed in a work which is of great importance to our country. I need not assure you that I am with the most perfect esteem & respect, Dear Sir, Your affec tionate old friend, Cha Thomson RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). 1 See Thomson to Franklin, January 14, 1784. 2 See Thomson to Reuben Haines, January 1, 1784. Charles Thomson to John Jay Dear Sir, Annapolisjany 15. 1784 Though I am sensible that lieut Col D. S. Frank, who is the bearer of this needs no introduction or recommendation to you, yet I cannot suffer him to go without a line from me. He is intrusted with a tripli cate Ratification of the definitive treaty, which passed yesterday, the first time we have had nine states represented since Octr. last, and which was done with the unanimous consent not only of every state but of every member in Congress. The proclamation and recommen dation of which he carries copies passed also with a like unanimous consent; so that I have strong hopes the treaty will be carried into full effect, and that when the passions of the people are cooled a spirit of conciliation will prevail. But considering what many have suffered, whose feelings are still alive & whose wounds are not yet closed And considering that our new established governments have not attained their full tone and vigour, it can hardly be expected that people will in a moment forget what is past and suddenly return to an interchange of friendly Offices with those, whom for years past they have consid ered as their most bitter enemies. My apprehensions are greatest from your state where the people have suffered most, and yet there is such a spirit and vigour in that government, that I trust matters will be con ducted with prudence and moderation. We have had no delegates from that State since the first Monday in November, occasioned as I am informed by a law of the state which prevented the meeting of the Assembly till the city was evacuated. However as the assembly is now met we expect deligates will soon be
