294 January 19, 1784 from the annals of America & utterly effaced from my memory! You will judge of the feelings of some of the members by an expression which Mr Read used in a late Speech, while C , said he, are vagabon dizing from one paultry village to another it is impossible for gentle men to have to recourse to books or to consult writers on the laws of nations. I enclose you a half sheet of the journal from this first Monday in November, and if the printer can get another half sheet ready before the post arrives I will add it. These which I imagine will comprehend the whole transactions to this time will give you some idea of the busi ness transacted. You will then see that the indian treaty, the peace es tablishment, the western country, and in short every thing that con cerns the honor, dignity, peace, happiness, prosperity and safety of the US remain & are like to remain in the state you left them. The defini tive treaty indeed is ratified. A Representation of Nine states was with great difficulty got together on the 14 which continued for three days; and as the members were extremely uneasy on account of the time elapsed and the danger of the ratification not getting across the Ocean to be exchanged within the time limited, they immediately em braced that opportunity, ratified the treaty and dispatched the ratifica tion by two couriers. The first (col Harmar) set off from this on the 15 to take passage in the packet from New York and the other lieut col Franks set out on the 17 to go in the first vessel that sails from any of the eastern ports. This and accepting the resignation of the General is almost the only business done. I am sorry you have thought it necessary to resign. 3 I heartily wish you had been with us. I think you might have been of great service. Several are beginning to see the impropriety & ill consequences of their past Conduct and I am persuaded you might have been instru mental in bringing them again to right. A great majority are con vinced that this is not a proper place for the residence of C- and I have some reason to think that several are ashamed of their two fcederal towns. I except however the father of the project 4 who is of so peculiar a cast of mind that his pleasure seems proportioned to the absurdity of his schemes & who is only mortified when reason & com mon sense prevail. But a truce with politics. Mrs. T is obliged for your remembrance of her & returns her compliments to you & Mrs. Peters, to whom you will please to make my compliments acceptable. I am with much esteem & respect, Dr Sir, Your affectionate, Cha Thomson RC (PHi: Peters Papers). 1 These letters are in the Thomson Papers, DLC. The former, which Peters dated “Belmont 20 lOber 83,” was also printed in “The Thomson Papers,” NYHS Collections 11
