February 1, 1784 311 debated on March 25 and May 5, but Congress reached no decision probably because it had adopted the grand committee’s April 27 report (note 2 above) which had provided $107,525.33 for the civil department. In the May 17 report of the committee on unfin ished business, the Williamson committee’s report was listed in the section of those that “should be passed on previous to adjournment,” but later it was also listed among those needing no further action because they had been superceded by “subsequent Acts of Congress, or by an alteration of time and other circumstances.” See JCC, 26:164-65, 342-48, 27:398, 404-5. William Ellery to William Greene Annapolis Feby. 1st. 1784 The attention which your Excellency was pleased to give to my re quest to the General Assembly for a grant of money; your and their disposition to supply their public servants abroad, and the necessity which will oppress me before I can return home unless my purse should be recruited constrain me again through you to address them for another grant. I make this early application; because it is not probable that there will be more than one session before I shall leave Congress, and that I presume will be some time this month. Before I left Princeton I had expended the money I had received from the treasurer as well as other money I had taken with me, and was obliged to borrow to discharge my board. At Philadelphia I pur chased some cloathing; this, the repayment of what I had borrowed, my expenses for board there, on the road to this place and since I have been here, have consumed so large a part of the last grant that without a further supply it will be impracticable for me to discharge the debts I shall have contracted before my return. Sensible of the difficulty with which money is collected and of the numerous demands on the treasury I have reduced my expenditures to as small a compass as possible in order to lessen the occasion for calling upon the State. Before I left Princeton I sent home one of my horses; when I got to Philadelphia I sent of[f| the other (if I could have sold them there would have been less necessity for this application) and I would have dismissed my waiter also had it been possible for Mr. Howell and my self to pass the winter with any degree of conveniency, not to mention decency, without a servant. The board and wages of my waiter has made and will make my expenses greater than those of my colleague. Notwithstanding every retrenchment, such is and hath been my ex pense that I am compelled to sacrifice decency to my finances. How degrading, how humiliating it must be to a gentleman not to be able to return the invitations he receives I leave to the feelings of my constituents. I could wish that a stile of living more simple, and more conformable to republican principles universally prevailed; but
