February!,1784 315 only explanatory of the resolution of the 28th of June 1778. The amount of L.O. Certificates which draw real Intrest on the nominal depreciated principal is about 2% millions dollars—must note that a Committee is appointed to devise & report means of discharging them. The State of Maryland has assumed on itself upwards of a hun dred thousand pounds their currency of the L.O. debt due to its citi zens, & issued to the holders State certificates, the intrest of which is to be paid annually by the State, & the principal in due time. 6 No. 6, con tains measures adopted to obtain a full representation in Congress. 7 All measures, on this head, have hitherto proved ineffectual—only eight States are present. We have had nine but about a week since our adjournment to this place. What baneful planet interposes its malign influence!!! This is all the Apology I can make for not having better answered the just expectations of the people who have honored me with their confidence, & the important trust of representing them in Congress. Those who have less confidence than I have in the views of the present Congress, are less mortified on this occasion. No. 7, contains an act of the State of Maryland laying a duty on British vessels, &c. 8 Five Shillings per Ton is to be paid by all British vessels & 2 per Centum on their cargoes, in addition to duties already laid, or to be laid, on other vessels & cargoes. The act also empowers their delegates to ratify an additional article to the Confederation on the Subject of commerce. In a late Letter from Mr. Adams he observes that the present British Ministry (which being a coalition was thought to stand on a tottering foundation) gains strength & stability: 9 and that it is to be feared that the Orders of the British King in Council restraining our carrying trade will not be soon repealed. In that case some counteraction may be wise & proper on our part. I wish this subject may receive a serious consideration. What several States have done may be seen in the pub lic papers. It may be observed that Maryland has imposed duties on British trade to be paid into their own Treasury—And that altho’ they are disposed to invest Congress with power to prohibit the Importation of Foreign goods, &c. yet they are not disposed to invest Congress with power to impose duties on such goods. The power of regulating trade, so far as such regulations are bona fide not calculated to raise a revenue therefrom, would, in my humble opinion, be less dangerous in the hands of Congress than the power of raising a revenue. No. 8, contains copy of an Act of Massachusetts investing Congress with power to levy & collect a 5 pr Cent. Impost. 10 I cannot learn that they have complied with the other parts of the System of April 18th last; and a failure in one point, according to the resolves, will frustrate the whole. I observe that they have annexed some important proviso’s; And I will take the Liberty to name a few more. 1st. That the State should have credit for the monies collected within them respectively.
