316 February 1,1784 2dly. That all the officers employed in the collection & manage ment of the revenue within the States should be appointed by, & ac countable only to their States respectively. 3dly. That the Ordinance, under which the duties are to be col lected, should be framed by Congress & laid before the respective States to be enacted & executed under their authority. Should this Subject be taken up by the Legislature of our State & find powerful advocates, it is my earnest request that the official Let ters which I have heretofore written on this subject may be read, for the information of new members previous to putting the question, & considered as containing my present Sentiments & advice. This will prevent me the necessity of enlarging at present, which would only be a repetition of what is already on your Files. Our Ministers have not been able to negotiate for a term for the payment of British debts—nor for the release of intrest. It was well ar gued by them that G. Britain was the aggressor in the war—and there fore in equity responsible for its consequences—That it had disabled us & ruined many—That it would be for their intrest to give a term & so prevent numberless bankrupcies among us—that by their wrong done to us it was impossible for us during the war, to make payment & of course we were not in equity bound to pay intrest, which is in the nature of dammage. Even a lawful tender was impracticable. It is held, however, that intrest ought only to be allowed on Special contracts therefor & not on accounts. As the law is opened to British Creditors by the definitive Treaty, some States, whose citizens are greatly in debt to British Merchants, are alarmed. It is said that a bill is to be brought in the next Session of the Legislature in Virginia, to suspend execu tion on judgments for debts contracted before 1775—as well among their own citizens, as when one party is a foreigner. The Minister of France has lately arrived in this City. He was re ceived with demonstrations of joy. He has sent a note to Congress in forming that his Most Christian Majesty has been pleased to repeat his arret, suspending payment on navy bills for one year, so far as may re spect the citizens of the United States. 11 Should you be of opinion that these enclosures are of sufficient im portance, you will be pleased to lay them before the Honorable Gen eral Assembly at their next Session—And to assure them of my best wishes to promote the welfare of the State & the public good. I have the honor to be, dear Sir, with much esteeme, your most obedient hble Servt, David Howell RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Not found. 2 Postmaster general Ebenezer Hazard’s January 14 letter to Pres. Thomas Mifflin is in PCC, item 61, fols. 169-72. For the January 6 resolves referred to here, see ICC, 26:8-10.
