February 1, 1784 317 3 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, October 4, 1783, note 6. 4 See JCC, 25:680-95. 5 See the preceding entry, note 5. 6 See Howell to Paul Allen, December 18, 1783, note 3. 7 For the identity of this enclosure, see Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book, De cember 30-January 31, note 12. 8 See Pennsylvania Delegates to the Pennsylvania Council, December 30, 1783, note 4. 9 See the preceding entry, note 4. io See PCC, item 74, fols. 197-203. n This January 30 letter from the chevalier de La Luzerne is in PCC, item 95, 2:264-66. David Howell to William Greene Sir, Annapolis Feb. 1st, 1784. Your favor of Nov. 18th directed to Mr. Ellery & myself came duly to hand. I delayed answering it with a view of joining Mr. Ellery in writ ing an official Letter, but as he informs me that he wrote you by the last post, 1 I have thought it my duty to write without further delay. I am sensible of your attention in laying our several Letters before the Assembly—and of their goodness in making us the necessary grants of money for our expences. As our grants were made payable to the Deputy Governor, we have taken the Liberty to draw upon him in favor of Messieurs Hewes & Anthony of Philadelphia, whose friend ship has relieved us & enabled us to come forward to this place. It is nearly three months since Congress left Princeton & in this time, excepting the ratification of the definitive Treaty, nothing of consequence has been done. Notwithstanding the Summer had passed without a full House, or doing much business; our hopes were sanguine that a full representation would come in this winter & en able us to dispatch the most important business & adjourn over the Summer. As yet we have been disappointed, eight States only are pre sent—and nine have not been on the floor at once for more than about a week since our adjournment to this place, notwithstanding the most pressing applications have been made to the delinquent States. This is a Subject of no small chagrin to us, who are living at the public expence & prevented from doing the public business by an ob struction, which, on our part, is involuntary as well as invincible. No business has been omitted, to the transaction of which the States present have been competent, by the Confederation; & great industry has been used in digesting & preparing the remaining business that it may be the more readily dispatched by a full House. Whatever dissatis faction may prevail with the people at large on account of their busi ness not having been done; I hope their censure will be directed to its proper objects, Viz, those members of Congress who have criminally
