February 1, 1784 319 fall ultimately on the consumer & eventually oppress the poor, I do not wish to see them adopted in this country any further than real ne cessity may justify. It is my opinion that the late order of Assembly directing the Loan Officer to consolidate, & to issue his notes for one years intrest of L.O. certificates issued from his office had become really necessary. I am sorry that the benefit of this measure is to be confined to such hold ers of sd certificates as are citizens of the State.' 2 - This restriction will prove injurious to foreigners, & is not agreeable to the design of the requisi tion. Pennsylvania first adopted this plan, &, it seems, other States have followed their example, & perhaps the business will in future be done in this line; but what means have Congress to remedy the case of foreigners, who must wait for the surplussages to be remitted from the States to the public Treasury. The Minister of France has already re monstrated to Congress on this head 3 —and did it with the better grace as he had it in his power, at the same time to assure us that his Most C. Majesty had repealed his arret suspending payment on navy bills so far as the same respected citizens of the U. States. I pray you to make known these things to the General Assembly at their next Session; & to assure them of my sincere concern for their intrests. 1 have the Honor to be your Excys. most obedient & most hble Servt. David Howell RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Not found. 2 For this Rhode Island Assembly resolve, see RI. State Records, 9:736. 3 See the preceding entry, note 11. Massachusetts Delegates to John Hancock Sir. Annapolis Feby. 1st. 1784. We do ourselves the Honor to transmit to your Excellency, the Jour nals of Congress from the 3d of Novr. last, to the 23d of Jany. The Journals previous to the 3d of Novr. are not yet printed. We have also enclosed a Resolution upon a Letter from John Allen, tho’ we doubt not it has been forwarded before this, by the Secretary of Congress. 1 The Remonstrance from our Legislature, was read in Congress, com mitted the 18th of December last. 2 No Report is yet made thereon; we should have press’d this Matter more strenuously than we have done, if we had States enough represented to act upon such a Report as ought, & as we expect will be made. We have had nine States represented only three Days, since we have been in this Place. We shall not fail to urge an
