320 February 1, 1784 immediate Decission upon the Matters contain’d in the Remonstrance, after there shall be a sufficient Representation to act upon them. It is expected that Congress may so far dispatch the public Business in the Course of two Months; as to have a Recess of several Months, leaving a Committee of the States in the Interim. But this, however de sireable, depends entirely on a fuller Representation than we have at present. Several Matters of very high Consequence to the united States, & which require the Assent of nine States, are necessary to be done previous to an Adjournment. We are with Considerations of the most perfect Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servants Geo. Partridge Samuel Osgood RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Osgood and Partridge. 1 See Thomas Mifflin to Hancock, January 31, 1784. 2 This Massachusetts remonstrance “relative to Continental Bills of Credit of Old Emis sions,” embodied in Hancock’s October 28, 1783, letter to Congress, is in PCC, item 65, 2:225-28. It was referred on December 18 to a committee that was “renewed” on January 26 and discharged on April 8 after submitting a report that was referred to Grand Com mittee on March 27. Although the report was debated in May, Congress failed to act upon it before adjourning in June, at which time the Massachusetts delegates provided the Assembly a summary of the congressional proceedings on the remonstrance. See Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Assembly, June 4, 1784; JCC, 25:815, 27:395-97; PCC, item 186, fols. 139, 146; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:221-23.’ Jacob Read to Annis Stockton Annapolis 1st Feby 1784 My Dear, my good Mrs. Stocton 1 must not impute her not having heard from Me sooner to a Want of respect for her or to a want of a proper Sense of gratitude in myself; I assure her I entertain too lively a Sense of her favours and value her friendship too highly to incur a forfeiture of them willingly. She must for a moment step into the shoes of a distressed almost distracted Lover and if she will but for a few Minutes look round her in that Character she will par don all the Negligence, all the Seeming inattentions to other than the one Subject. Let her but add to the anxiety of the last Character the additional distressing scene of pale Sickness in the object beloved she will then readily excuse poor Read for all his seeming Ill behaviour. But to my good Friend I may Speak a little plainer. Your obliging sympathy forced me to Confess my case to you when I last Saw you and I will now tell you all. On my Coming down here I went immedi-
