February 1,1784 321 ately to the House of the father of my Charmer. I was received with the most marked politeness by the family, but my girl was too ill to be seen. I found means of writing to and hearing from her that her at- tacht. was undiminished. She became worse, which oblig[ed] me to wait on a Lady (my Cousin) in my carriage from Annapolis to see her. I still cou’d not be bless’d with a sight. I was almost mad. With the fa ther I conversed at a distance on the subject but as my last letters were unanswered I was desirous to have him break the subject. The Lady at last was near death. She made no Secret of her Attachment. I made a third Visit carried up Doctr. Williamson & was received with the love, the affection of a son. I know the Old Gendeman loved me but he was offended I had spoken to his Child before I paid him the Compliment of informing him of my Intention. He had made many general ap- pologies for his opposition. I forgive him, most heartily forgive him tho’ his obstinacy has cost me dear. But to speak of a more interesting scene, I have been admitted to visit my dear Girl! God, what a Change. I was almost petrified—posi tively I was Speechless, and if my limbs had been as much affected as my tongue, I had better turn away. I embraced all that remains of the once blooming lovely Miss Calvert. Now alas! a pale emaciated Skel- leton. She saw me and received me with that regard, true Modesty and distress that an absence of upwards of Two years wou’d naturally occa sion & was tho’ prepared for the interview very much overcome. Judge my dear Madam of my feelings, When I heard from her own lips that uneasiness of Mind and I the subject, had placed the finest woman on the Continent in such a state! Is this possible? Can your sex love with such truth? Pardon these questions! From my own feel ings I know the violence of the Attachments & the Sincerity of the Men but I own the frequent Inconstancies of the ladies & the ease with which they put off & forget love Engagements makes me rather doubtful in the Cases of females. Every assistance is now afforded and we have hopes but the Season— a Violent Cough & a threatned Consumption fill me with apprehensions which I will not attempt to paint, I am unequal to the task! Your own fine feelings & Comprehensive genius will better conceive them! All opposition at an end, I am a little more tranquil and in ruminat ing on past Scenes Morven frequently rises up to my Imagination. I place me by your Social fire Side, almost take the hand of my dear Sis ter Polly & am ready to Speak to Mamma. Sometimes I think I hear you say, the Scrubs have forgot us Polly! The gaiety of Annapolis has turned their heads. I see your expressive look & feel reproof but I have not deserved & I will not in future deserve it. Tho’ the Muse of Morven left unsung the parting of a Read, he has no right to say he was neglected! What right Can he have to Claim a first place in her es teem. Osgoods, Carrolls, McHenrys & many other Names art before
