326 February 2, 1784 Your Sentiments with Respect to the southern States, are very can did & charitable. Charity is an amiable Virtue. And in this Case, it cov ers a Multitude of Sins. How far their Apprehensions of being fixed permanently at Trenton, may operate, I know not. But this I am sure of, that they do not mean to have two federal Towns. And I venture to predict that there never will be two. They will endeavor to have the Resolutions of Congress so altered, as to have one permanent Place of Residence in some Part of Maryland or Virginia; & if they cannot ef fect this, they can another Point, which will be, to fix Congress again in Philadelphia. Here probably will be the Issue of federal Towns. I cannot find the shadow of a Reason to alter my former Opinion, with Respect to their aristocratical Principles; & if they vary from these, it will be to monarchical ones. It is impossible in the Nature of Things, that their Governments should be democratic. It is also impossible, that there should be a Coincidence of political Views, in some Matters of very great Importance to the Eastern States: for those who have ap peared to be honest Republicans, of which Number I have had the Misfortune to find not more than two or three, have uniformly depre ciated our Exertions, & denied to us that Justice, which is clearly due. Time only can discover which had the most Reason for his Opinion. I sincerely wish the Event may be as happy & favorable, as you expect it will. The present Members of Congress wear a different Aspect from those of the last year, but we have not had a fair Opportunity to dis cover their political Views. You ask what we have done to forward our commercial Arrangements. I answer, we have done nothing to for ward them; nor scarcely any Thing else. Since we have been at An napolis, we have had Nine States, but about six or seven Days—at present we have no Prospect of a sufficient Representation to transact the Business, which is necessary to be done, previous to the Adjourn ment of Congress. There are but a few Matters that keep Congress to gether, & these require the Assent of Nine States. It is cruel to the last degree, in those States which neglecting to keep up their Representa tion, oblige us to waste our Time, & spend the Money of our Con stituents, without being able to render them Services equivalent. But the Fault lies not with us. I am perswaded that our Commerce is of the highest Importance to us as a Nation: that the closest Attention must be paid to our commer cial Arrangements—and until they are placed upon the fair and lib eral Footing of mutual Reciprocity—& until they are extended to all Nations, that will afford us an advantageous Market for our Exports or that will furnish us upon the best Terms with Articles for our own Consumption, our commerce will be too limited & unproductive. It is not extraordinary that there should be a Desire, & even Attempts to limit our commercial Connections. But it will be strange, if we are so blind & inattentive to our own Interest, as to suffer ourselves to be
