February 2, 1784 327 caught in the snare. I do not recollect any Branches of Trade that are of so much Importance to our State, as the Whale & Cod fishery, & the carrying Trade. These several Branches at present do not stand upon a sure Foundation. It is true, we have a Right to take Fish by the Treaty, But that does not point out what we are to do with them. The Benifit that might result from this Part of the Treaty, depends very much upon the liberal sentiments that Great Britain shall adopt, when she enters into a commercial Treaty with us. You do not want to be in formed, that many of our own Countrymen do not only, not wish, but will use their Endeavors, that no such Connection shall ever be formed. Upon these three Branches of Trade, I conceive the future Wealth & Prosperity of our State entirely depend; & also the marine Power of the united States: the last, I am not anxious about in any other View than as the Result of the former. Bounties & Duties, may be so applied, as to destroy in a great Measure our Fisheries; These, & the carrying Trade, depend upon Treaties yet to be made. And would it not be astonishing, if we should for a great while to come, loose the Advantages that might result therefrom for the Want of Nine States in Congress. On these Points southern and Eastern Republicans will think very differently. You observe that if the Impost should be given to Congress, yet the collateral Funds will not be given—That the warmest Advocates for the Impost, voted for it, because they knew that their Arguments were not true in Fact. They knew that they then voted away other People’s Money; But when the Question shall be, to vote away their own Money, they will disagree to it. That consequently Congress will not have adequate Funds. You further observe, that a great Part of the Opposition to the Im post arises from a Want of Confidence in the Person, who is at the Head of the Treasury; from a Belief, that his Plans are artfully laid to subvert the Liberties of the People. That the Opposition to other Funds necessary to defray the Interest of the public Debt, is owing to the Want of honesty; & that nothing but the imminent Danger of a much greater Evil than that of parting with their Money, will induce the People to be honest: That not a single Government in the Union has sufficient Energy to enforce the Collection of their Taxes—That this is an Evil which will in the End produce it’s own Remedy. That the States are only manoeuvreing, to rid themselves of the Burthen of pay ing Taxes. That no System can be devised, which would be satisfactory to all. That the true System is contained in the Confederation, or rather the Principles of a proper System. That you are perswaded that were the Impost to be collected & committed to the present Adminis tration, it would be perverted to the most dangerous Purposes, & that this Kind of Revenue renders a fair Examination into mal Pra[c]tices, impracticable. And that Congress should persevere till they have as-
