February 2,1784 331 must be bro’t before Congress, or the Commissioner, or a discre tionary Power lodged somewhere, must be the Mode; I apprehend the first to be impracticable; & the other at least very objectionable. It is a very doubtful Matter, whether the Commissioners will be able in many years to close the Accounts—there is no great Reason why they should be in a hurry about it. If every Account is to be fairly transcribed, the Work in Detail must be immensely voluminous. The mere Expence of having the Accounts adjusted may be almost as great an Evil, as to let them remain unliquidated. With Respect to the Proposition; It must be supposed that the Leg islatures of the several States have exercised a proper Degree of Cau tion in contracting Debts. No good Reason can be given why they should involve themselves unnecessarily. Will it not naturally excite much Animosity, & ill Will, for Congress to call in Question their Wis dom & Prudence, more especially, for what they did after the Com mencement of the War, until the Confederation was ratified. The Contest during that Period, depended in a great Measure upon their Patriotism & Exertions. That they may have erred in Judgment, that they may have conducted without Regularity & System, is not extraor dinary. It is fortunate that all Matters have terminated successfully; & due Credit is to be given them for it. Will not the Policy be extremely narrow & contracted, if Congress should erect themselves into a Tri bunal, to sit in Judgment upon the several Legislatures, who, if they submit, will not do it in the most cordial Manner. It is not difficult to form an Estimate of the Difference of the two Ways, with Respect to Harmony & Satisfaction. But as it may respect the Interest of the States, it must be mere Matter of Opinion. It may be observed, that during the Period of Time referr’d to, the Expendi tures of the several States must have been principally, for public Pur poses, save those for the Support of civil Government, which is not a Matter of much Consequence; The civil List of the several States, from what I can collect, is not very different as to the whole Amount. If it is agreed that the remaining Part of the States Debts was contracted for supporting the general Cause, the Enquiry will be, whether they have assess’d & collected from their Citizens, Sums of Money in Proportion to their Abilities as States; and if not, how this Inequality will operate. Suppose two States of equal Abilities, the one had collected an hun dred Pounds from its Citizens, the other had contracted a Debt to the same Amount, it is plain that the Proposition would make a Differ ence of an hundred Pounds. But it is impossible that the Reality should operate so great an Inequality; because there is no State but what has collected considerable Sums of Money from its Citizens. There is one State in the Union, which is said to be in Debt twelve Mil lions of Dollars Specie; & that a great Part of this Debt arose from the Issuing of what were called Specie Certificates, which in the first In-
