332 February 2,1784 stance were pass’d at about Eighty pr. Cent. Discount compared with Specie. The Delegates of the State give the first as a Fact; but they do not agree to the last. The united States can never again be in Circumstances similar to those, previous to the Ratification of the Confederation. They now hope to be a happy, peaceable, & respectable Nation to the latest Ages. That this may really be the Case, much Liberality of Sentiment must be exercised among those that are truly Republican. Let us contrast the possible Inequality that might take Place from giving full Credit to the Wisdom & Prudence of the several sovereign Legislatures, for five or six Years only, with the unavoidable Discord that must ensue, if it is not done; & let a deliberate Opinion be formed thereupon; & will it not be in Favor of submitting to that pos sible Inequality, which in all Probability can never again exist under the regular Systems of Government that are now established. If the United States should ever be engaged in a War again, their past Expe rience will probably teach them to adopt in many Instances, very dif ferent Systems. But in the present Situation of Affairs, considering that there are six States in the Union, whose private Debts are a mere triffle compared with some others, considering that nine States will be necessary to pass to the Credit of any State, a Charge not expressly authorized by the Resolution of Congress, that the Towns damaged & destroyed, Ne groes carried off, Tobacco plundered & burnt, The Places laid Waste & in Possession of the Enemy. These & numberless other Charges, will be made, in Case we go on to liquidate upon the present Plan, consid ering these Things, does it seem probable that those six States will ever consent to any Thing more than what is expressly authorized al ready by the Resolutions of Congress. In Case the Proposition should be agreed to, what are to be done with the Securities? Are Funds to be given to Congress to discharge them? This would be neither necessary, nor admissable. The Amount of the States Debts, with that of the united States, might be divided among the respective States. When the Quotas shall be ascertain’d, the Amount of the State Debt, deducted (if less) from the Quota, will leave the Ballance which ought to be paid into the continental Chest. I am strongly induced to believe that this Plan would tend to prevent much Discord & Animosity. It is not probable that it would operate equal Justice, neither do I suppose the present will; What a Field will be opened, if the Ravages occasioned by the Enemy are to be liqui dated; yet this is set on Foot by the Superintendant of Finance; proba bly to Ballance the Claims of some States; & will it not have this Effect? The Proposition, if agreed to, would very speedily ease the united States of nearly forty thousand Dollars pr. Annum, which they now pay to Commissioners & their Clerks for settling the Accounts of the sev-
