344 February5,1784 this House cannot be too solicitous that all engagements to the public Creditors of every species and particularly the Army who have so dis tinguished a claim to our esteem and gratitude, should be faithfully performed: They are therefore of opinion that the requisitions of Congress upon the States for funds, if yet insufficient, should be ex tended till they are fully commensurate to this object; and that the business of setting off the Lands designed by Congress for our line should be expedited, and the allotment of them in the vicinity of their other lands granted by this State requires your particular attention, it being considered by them, as an essential point. “Certain measures now pursuing by some European States having a tendency materially to injure the general trade of America, the atten tion of this House is naturally turned to the affairs of Commerce, and herein are struck with an apparent defect in the Constitution of Congress, for as the local exercise within the States, of the powers of regulating and controlling trade, can result only in discordant systems productive of internal jealousies and competitions, and illy calculated to oppose or counteract foreign measures, which are the effect of an unity of Council; this House are clearly of opinion, that the individual as well as general good will be best consulted, by relinquishing to Congress all these seperate and independant powers, “And this House are willing and desirous on the part of Pensylvania, to concur in substantiating this idea, by the necessary legal acts. “Another object of national consideration has been the establish ment of a Mint, and this House are desirous, your abilities should be employed to carry that useful design into effect.” 1 Submitted by, Thomas Mifflin John Montgomery Edwd. Hand RC (DNA: PCC, item 24). In a clerical hand and signed by Hand, Mifflin, and Montgomery. 1 Although this document actually contains three instructions—on the use of western lands for Continental veterans, granting Congress authority to regulate commerce, and “the establishment of a mint”—it was referred on February 6 to a committee charged with only the second of these. This committee, to which was also referred a Virginia act “empowering Congress to take measures for counteracting the proclamation of [George III] respect[in]g restrictions on trade,” consisted of Jeremiah Townley Chase, Elbridge Gerry, Arthur Lee (replaced by Thomas Jefferson April 14), Jacob Read, and Hugh Williamson, and it submitted a report on April 22. See PCC, item 24, fols. 175-76, item 186, fol. 148; and JCC, 26:70-71. For the background of the committee’s work,
