February 12,1784 351 obliged if you will please to examine whether they remain in your pos session and if so to forward them to me by the first opportunity to gether with any other public papers you may chance to have belong ing to Congress. 1 I am, Sir, with much esteem & respect, Sir, Your obedt. humble servt. Chas Thomson Tr (DLC: Edmund C. Burnett Papers). Endorsed by Burnett: “Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 A reply from FitzSimons to Thomson of February 18 enclosing papers belonging to Congress is in the PCC (item 78, 9:507), but this appears to be in response to an earlier letter from Thomson, as FitzSimons indicates that he is responding to “Your favor of the 3d.” Thomson wrote again to FitzSimons on March 22 about the letters from the super intendent of finance mentioned here, for which see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:739-40, 742n.l2; and Thomson to FitzSimons and to Robert Morris, March 22, 1784. Hugh Williamson to Thomas Ruston Dear Sir 1 Feby 12th 1784. It gave me much satisfaction to be informed, as I was by yours of Octr 10th which came to hand this morning, that you retain your Health—though I am sensibly affected by Mrs Ruston’s repeated losses of her fine Boys. I am sure the Thought of having Sons who might be free men & Princes in a free Country must be singularly pleasing to a Lady who seems to possess so much of the true Spirit of an antient Spartan or Roman Matron. I mentioned her name to Dr Lee this morning who spoke of her with great respect and she knows he is not apt to be much attached to or to flatter Ladies, I admit that apathy and misanthropy itself could not excuse a man from bestowing Praise on such a Lady as the one referd to. Your father whom I saw on Novr last in Philada. told me that you talked of a visit to this Country. Be so good as to tell Mrs R that such a Visit would certainly cast me a Ride for I should not begrudge a Ride of some length to have the Pleasure of congratulating her on her arrival in that Country which In my Heart I think is the only country on the face of the Earth where human Nature is not degraded by some species of Servitude. How can you wonder that I did not write by my Brother? In fact he went contrary to my intreaties. I gave him no Letters nor ought but advice which was if he should do so absurd a Thing as take an oath of Obedience to that King—to see to it that he did not return at least during the War unless he wished to be treated by his nearest Relations as an Alien. Whatever I may have said about your sensations on the treaty of Peace you cannot suppose that I had serious doubts of your political Sentiments when you recollect that you was the only Ameri can in London to whom I even intimated a design of returning to
