352 February 12, 1784 America, Captn Hutchins excepted who was then a Captn in the 40th Regt, and has since come over & is in our Service. I was then pos sessed of more secrets than his, but when a man is conscious of a fair Conduct arising from upright Intensions, I think him a small politi cian or a vile courier of popularity who will take the trouble of making a single declaration merely to remove the Suspicions or prevent the Tattle of idle or silly impertinents. Oft have I since that Time seen an Officer by an idle shew of his Intentions cut off a fair opportunity of defeating his Enemy. As all the vacant Lands were in the Charter Claims of one or an other State Congress as such had none unless some States should re linquish. New York had relinquished and Virga has just relinquished her claim to all the Land on tother Side of the Ohio & extending from the Lakes to the Mississippi. Their act of Assembly came to hand three days ago and the Delegates on tomorrow or next day are to exe cute the Conveyance in behalf of the State. We shall have some Pre liminaries to settle with the Indians who are many of them collected at this Inst, with the desire of treating with us. We are first to set off the Lands we owe to our Army. We shall then sell Land to sink our Na tional Debt and I presume on the next Summer a good Part of that Country will be allotted to the Purposes mentioned. Several of the States however have large Tracts of vacant Land which they have not ceded to Congress. The Office in N. Carolina has been opened on the last Summer and much Land taken up since that Time. Part of the Debts of the State are sunk in that manner. I have taken up some Land in our Western Country in Company with two other Gentlemen, one of whom served with me in the Army, and since the Peace has had Leisure to attend to our joint private affairs. Thinking that a man might fairly risque his Property Where he risqued his Person, I had advanced freely to the State, or rashly as the more cautious expressd it. I am one of those who have in no Instance had occasion to com plain of my Country. We can furnish a number of industrious Planters with a Tract of One hundred Thousand A[cre]s which is on Tenissee River which rises in the blue Ridge & runs into the Ohio. Those Lands are exceeding good, the Climate temperate so as to have hardly the appearance of Winter and withall very healthy. We are in contract for a larger Tract of four or five hundred Thousand Acres & by this Time I presume the Bargain is finished. That other Tract is on the Bend of what is calld the Cherokee River. Some of the best Land that was ever warmed by the Sun. I can only say that for your own Accot if you have any wish to have a few A[cre]s of terra firma & will explain your Views to me I will endeavour to see that you shall not be disap pointed. Dont charge me again with severe insinuations when I re mind you that aliens cannot hold soil in the United States. Is not the Word just marked a strange one when apply’d to a native of this Coun-
