February 12, 1784 353 try. But such is the fact and you may be assured that we are very atten tive to this Distinction. However the means of becoming a Citizen with us is extremely easy. Was not this distinction held up British Mer chants and others would try to hold us again in a species of Slavery by getting Mortgages & other holds of our Lands. As for yourself it cer tainly will not be difficult for you to make a Trustee of some Person on whose name the Lands may be taken up and who may reconvey to you if ever the Time should come when you could hold the Soil in propri nomine, if not, it might be sold for your Benefit. I cannot devise what the Price of vacant Lands may be; those I mean in the disposal of Congress. You doubtless know that our national debt is estimated at some thing less than Ten Millions Sterlg viz 42 Mills, of Dlrs. Of this near 8 mills of Dlrs are due to foreign Countries viz France, Holland, Spain. The remr. is due to our late Army & other Citizens of these States, for their Claims they hold Certificates at the Interest of 6 Per Ct. Small as this National Debt is, from the strong Im pressions made by the late Paper Money, The Certificates, which are also unfortunately on Paper, are much depredated; a good deal more than your Bank Stock. It is probable that the Office will open for the disposal of Land at a certain number of Dlrs Per Hundd As. to be paid in Silver or Certificates, you may be assured that no man will pay Silver while he can buy Certificates as at present at 25 or 30 Per Ct. Certifi cates will doubtless in a short Time appreciate so that the first adven turers will be apt to get their Land, on the best Terms. Be pleased to observe this is matter of meer Opinion, for the Terms have not ever been mentioned in Congress in my hearing, and though I have nearly perfected a Plan for the general & particular partition of the western Country which seems to be approved of by those who have examined it; the Question of Value I have not once considered. On the other Questions there can hardly be a difference of Opinion. I fervently wish to see an extinction of our national Debt—The borrower is a Slave to the Lender. Arguments have been often advanced in favour of national Debt. There are also Arguments in favour of Vice & Lux ury; they employ the poor. I wish to see America subsist without such Splinters. They may be apply’d to shattered frames. We are in the Vigour of Youth. Is it not strange, for it is certain, that some States whose numbers have been correctly taken, have increased in the Number of Inhabitants during the War. This is doubtless true also of the Inhabitants of the United States; And People are already removing in Thousands to live over the Mountains. We shall soon have three or four new States on the Waters of the Ohio. You know that Pennsylvana is now in the Center of Thirteen, but the Increase of States will be to the Southward. To this we look which is the true Cause why some of us are very desirous that Congress should at once take its Station and build a foederal Town near the falls of Potowmack. The Eastern States
