February 18,1784 363 persons who ascended in it regulated it’s height at about 3000 feet, and passed with the wind about 6 miles in 20 minutes when they chose to let themselves down, tho’ they could have travelled triple the distance. This discovery seems to threaten the prostration of fortified works unless they can be closed above, the destruction of fleets and what not. The French may now run over their laces, wines &c. to Eng land duty free. The whole system of British statutes made on the sup position of goods being brought into some port must be revised. In land countries may now become maritime states unless you chuse rather to call them aerial ones as their commerce is in future to be car ried on through that element. But jesting apart I think this discovery may lead to things useful. For instance there is no longer a difficulty how Congress shall move backwards and forwards, and your bungling scheme of moving houses and moving towns is quite superseded, 2 we shall soar sublime above the clouds. It is happy for us too that this in vention happens just as philosophy is taking such a start in our own hemisphere: for I find by the last election of members to the Society 3 there are no less than 21 new philosophers found, every one of whom is superior to my countryman Madison. From philosophy I must pass on to domestic things and thank you for your notice of my little daughter whose education and improvement is my first object now. I am sure your advice and society will forward these works with her. I am sorry Cimetiere 4 thinks her a dull subject in his line. I do not fore see that she will ever have another opportunity of learning to draw, and it is a pleasing accomplishment and a valuable one in many cir cumstances. 5 As to his pay, I would wish him to receive what he thinks due to him, because I would even purchase his peace at that price. Perhaps I may be able to get him to persevere when I return to Philadelphia which will probably be in the spring—but stop or I shall let out the secret. Much health and happiness to yourself and family, and sincere respects to Mr. and Mrs. Rittenhouse, remaining myself with great sincerity Dr. Sir Your friend & servt, Th. Jefferson Reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:541-43. 1 Hopkinson’s “favour” of January 4, in which he enclosed “A Literary Christmas Gambol” and “A Sample of good Writing,” is in ibid., pp. 443-47. 2 Jefferson’s allusion is to a “scheme” Hopkinson had advanced in his satire of Congress’ decision in October to build two federal towns, which was published in the Freeman’s Journal (Philadelphia), November 26, 1783. In this “Summary of Some Late Proceedings in a Certain Great Assembly,” Hopkinson had proposed that to avoid the expense of two sets of buildings for the two sites, Congress might instead build one “im perial city” on wheels. 3 That is, the American Philosophical Society in Philadelphia. 4 That is, Pierre Eugene Du Simitiere (ca. 1736-1784), artist, naturalist, and collector, for whom see these Letters, 14:228,15:471; and the DAB. 5 Jefferson also wrote to his daughter Patsy this day concerning the termination of her drawing lessons with Du Simitiere, and her attempts to master French, for which see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:543-44.
