364 February 20,1784 John Beatty to William Livingston Sir Annapolis 20th Feby. 1784 This is the fourth letter, 1 I have done myself the Honor to write Your Excelly. on the Subject of a representation of our State in Congress. Under the fullest persuasion, that Your Excelly. has made every Ex ertion (consistant with the important office you fill) to bring forward another Member; I should not have so recently troubled you on this Score, were I not pressed to it at the particular desire of the present representation on the Floor of Congress: thus Constrained, I am again to Solicit Your Excellys. interference in this Business. In addition to the letter from the President, which accompanies this, 2 I have to In form you, that the General discontent, which prevails among the Members attending, has become so serious & alarming, that it threat ens a dissolution of Congress & Eventually that of the Union. Nor is it to be wondered at, that gentlemen, who have given the most assidu ous attendance for these Six Months past, to promote the Interest, Happiness & Safety of the U.S. generally; should be disgusted at the delay of the important Concerns of the Union, being carried into Ef fect thro the remissness & inattention of the States particularly delin quent. There is no power in the Confederation; nor any Rule of the House to Compel the members to attend, or even to remain at the place where Congress are Convened; & should the Gentlemen who are now here, either thro a Sense of the Duty they owe to their States (in saving a useless Expence) or tired out with their repeated, yet fruitless endeavours to Coerce an attendance of those States unrepre sented; wholly withdraw themselves: Your Excelly. will readily conceive the Confusion which would Ensue & the Danger arising to the Union at large. Inclosed is a Copy of a report which was read in Congress on the 13th Inst. 3 but which could not since be taken up & acted on for the want of seven States. I cannot help flattering Myself, that when this State of things comes to be laid before the Gentlemen, who are in the Delegation with me; that one or other of them will be induced to at tend: and I must here take occasion to Mention also, that the adjourn ment to Trenton in the Spring will depend wholly upon the represen tation that Exists in Congress of the Nothern States. I have not been honored with a letter from your Excelly. since my being here, 4 but am inclined to attribute it to the Irregularity of the Posts. I must beg you to present my respectfull Comps, to Mrs. Liv ingston & the Young Ladies. With sentiments of respect & Esteem, I have the Honor to be, your Excellys. most obedt., Hum Servt. Jno. Beatty RC (MHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Only Beatty’sjanuary 22 and February 10 letters to Livingston have been found.
