February 20,1784 365 2 See Thomas Mifflin to Certain States, this date. 3 See JCC, 26:84. 4 A February 9 letter to Beatty from Livingston is in Livingston, Papers (Prince), 5:80. Thomas Jefferson to James Madison Dear Sir Annapolis Feb. 20. 1784. Your favour of the 11th inst. came to hand this day.' I had prepared a multitude of memorandums of subjects whereon to write you, but I will first answer those arising from your letter. By the time my order got to Philadelphia every copy of Smith’s history of New York was sold. 2 I shall take care to get Blair’s Lectures for you as soon as pub lished, 3 and will attend to your presumed wishes whenever I meet with any thing rare & of worth. I wish I knew better what things of this kind you have collected for yourself, as I may often doubt whether you have or have not a thing. I know of no objections to the printing the revisal; 4 on the contrary I think good will result from it. Should this be decided I must make a short trip to Virginia, as from the loss of origi nals I believe my copies must often be wanting. I had never met with the particular fact relative to the grinders of the incognitum found in Brasil & Lima & deposited in the British museum which you mention from Dr. Hunter. 5 I know it has been said that in a very few instances such bones have been found in S. America. You will find a collection of these in 2. Buff. Epoq. de la nature 187. but they have been so illy attested, so loosely & ignorantly described, and so seldom even pre tended to have been seen, that I have supposed their identity with the Northern bones, & perhaps their existence at all not sufficiently estab lished. The authority of Hunter is respectable: but if this be the only well attested instance of those bones brought from S. America, they may still be beleived to have been first carried there either previous to the emigration of the Spaniards when there was doubtless a communi cation between the Indns. of the two continents, or after that emigra tion when an intercourse between the Spaniards of N. & S. America took place. It would be unsafe to deny the fact; but I think it may well be doubted. I wish you had a thermometer. Mr. Madison of the col lege 6 & myself are keeping observations for a comparison of climate. We observe at Sunrise & at 4 o’clock P.M. which are the coldest & warmest points of the day. If you could observe at the same time it would shew the difference between going North & Northwest on this continent. I suspect it to be colder in Orange or Albemarle than here. I think I informed you in my last 7 that an attempt had been made to ratify the Definitive treaty by seven states only, and to impose this under the sanction of our seal (without letting our actual state ap pear) on the British court. Reade, Williamson & Lee were violent for
