368 February 20,1784 first movers. Whereas if we draw the line those at Kentucky having their end will not interest themselves for the people of Indiana, Greenbriar &c. who will of course be left to our management, and I can with certainty almost say that Congress would approve of the meridian of the mouth of Kanhaway and consider it as the ultimate point to be desired from Virginia. I form this opinion from conversa tion with many members. Should we not be the first movers, and the Indianians & Kentuckians take themselves off and claim to the Al- leghaney I am afraid Congress would secretly wish them well. Virginia is extremely interested to retain to that meridian, 1. because the Gr. Kanhaway runs from North to South across our whole country form ing by its waters a belt of fine land, which will be thickly seated & will form a strong barrier for us, 2. because the country for 180 miles be yond that is an absolute desart, barren & mountainous which can never be inhabited, & will therefore be a fine separation between us & the next state, 3. because the government of Virginia is more conve nient to the people on all the upper parts of Kanhaway than any other which will be laid out, 4. because our lead mines are in that country, 5. because the Kanhaway is capable of being made navigable, and therefore gives entrance into the Western waters to every part of our latitude, 6. because it is not now navigable & can only be made so by expensive works, which require that we should own the soil on both sides, 7. because the Ohio and it’s branches which head up against the Patowmac affords the shortest water communication by 500 miles of any which can ever be got between the Western waters & Atlantic, & of course promises us almost a monopoly of the Western & Indian trade. I think the opening this navigation is an object on which no time is to be lost. Pennsylva. is attending to the Western commerce. She has had surveys made of the river Susquehanna and of the grounds thro’ which a canal must pass to go directly to Philadelphia. It is reported practicable at an expense of £200,000 and they have determined to open it. What an example this is! If we do not push this matter imme diately they will be beforehand with us & get possession of the com merce, and it is difficult to turn it from a channel in which it is once established. Could not our assembly be induced to lay a particular tax which should bring in 5 or 10,000 £ a year to be applied till the navi gation of the Ohio & Patowmac is opened, then James river & so on through the whole successively. Genl. Washington has that of the Pa towmac much at heart. The superintendance of it would be a noble amusement in his retirement & leave a monument of him as long as the waters should flow. I am of opinion he would accept of the direc tion as long as the money should be to be emploied on the Patowmac, & the popularity of his name would carry it thro’ the assembly. The portage between Yohogania & the N. branch of Patowmac is of 40 or 50 miles. Cheat river is navigable far up. It’s head is within 10 miles of
