February 20, 1784 369 the head of the North branch of Patowmac & I am informed offers the shortest & best portage. I wish in the next election of delegates for Congress, Short could be sent. 18 His talents are great & his weight in our state must ere long become principal. I see the best effects pro duced by sending our young statesmen here. They see the affairs of the Confederacy from a high ground; they learn the importance of the Union & befriend federal measures when they return. Those who never come here, see our affairs insulated, pursue a system of jealousy & self interest, and distract the Union as much as they can. Genl. Gates would Supply Short’s place in the council very well, and would act. He is now here. What will you do with the council? They are ex pensive, and not constantly nor often necessary: yet to drop them would be wrong. I think you had better require their attendance twice a year to examine the Executive department & see that it be going on rightly; advise on that subject the Governor or inform the legislature as they shall see occasion. Give them 50 guineas for each trip, fill up only 5 of the places, and let them be always subject to summons on great emergencies by the Governor, on which occasions their ex- pences only should be paid. At an expence of 500 guineas you will thus preserve this member of the constitution always fit for use. Young & ambitious men will leave it & go into the assembly, but the elderly & able who have retired from the legislative feild as too turbulent will ac cept of the offices. Among other legislative subjects our distresses ask notice. I had been from home four months & had expended 1200 Dollars before I received one farthing. By the last post we received about seven weeks allowance. In the mean time some of us had had the mortification to have our horses turned out of the livery stable for want of money. There is really no standing this. The supply gives us no relief because it was mortgaged. We are trying to get something more effectual from the treasury, having sent an express to inform them of our predicament. I shall endeavour to place as much in the Philadel phia bank as will repay your kindness unless you should alter your mind & chuse to take it in the Virginia treasury. I have hunted out {Chatlux} journal & had a reading of it. 19 I had never so falsely esti mated the character of a book. There are about six sentences of offen sive bagatelles which are all of them publicly known, because having respected individual characters they were like carrion for the buzzard curiosity. All the rest of the book (and it is a 4to. of 186 pages) is ei ther entertaining, or instructive & would be highly flattering to the Americans. He has visited all the principal feilds of battle, enquired minutely into the detail of the actions, & has given what are probably the best accounts extant of them. He often finds occasion to criticize & to deny the British accounts from an inspection of the ground. I think to write to him, recommend the expunging the few exception able passages & publication of the rest. I have had an opportunity
