xn February 20, 1784 and taking measures for securing our frontiers, preserving our stores and Magazines; making requisitions for the expences of the current year and for satisfying the public Creditors. I have only to add that by the sickness of some of the Members, at tending at Annapolis, we have had seven States represented in Congress only three days since the sixth Inst.; as your Excellency will observe by the enclosed certificate of the Secretary, 1 and, that the Members present are dissatisfied with attending to no purpose, and are very impatient under their situation. I am with the greatest Re spect and esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient and humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin 2 ENCLOSURE Saturday February 7th, only five States attended. Monday February 9th, only six. Tuesday & Wednesday 10th, and 11th seven States attended. Thursday February 12, only five States attended. Friday February 13th, seven States attended, Only six States, attended. The States unrepresented, are New Hampshire, New York, New Jer- Wednesday Feby, 18th, Thursday Feby. 19th, Friday Feby. 20th, Saturday Feby. 21st, Monday Feby 16th, only five. Tuesday Feby. 17th, sey, Delaware, and Maryland, North Carolina and Georgia. 21 Feby. 1784. Cha. Thomson. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of New Hamp shire. N.B. A similar letter was sent to the Governors of New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina and Georgia.” 1 See enclosure, the text of which is taken from the copy sent to Pennsylvania Presi- dentjohn Dickinson. Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:207. 2 Mifflin also appended the following information to his letter to the president of Pennsylvania, who is not among the addressees noted in Mifflin’s letterbook. “States not represented: New Hampshire—One Delegate present. New York. New Jer sey—One Delegate present. Delaware—One Delegate present. Maryland—One Dele gate attending. One sick. North Carolina—One Delegate attendg. One sick. Georgia.” Ibid.; and Gratz Collection, PHi. John Montgomery to Edward Hand Sir Annoplas 20th Febry 1784 Agreeable to your Requist I have sent Sevral Letters for you that Came by the post and are returned by him to Philada. which I hop is
