February 21,1784 383 About the most eligible mode of disposing of these lands there are various opinions. It has been the custom of the Southern States to issue warrants from a land office. The person taking the warrant has to look for unlocated lands to cover with his warrant, of which he makes a return. In this way the good land is looked out & seized on first—and land of little value & in all shapes left in the hands of the public: But this, I am told soon rises in value & is bought by the hold ers of the adjacent good lands in their own defence. In the eastern States, as you well know, the custom has been to sell a township by bounds, or certain lots, taken flush, good & bad together, & to push out settlement in compact columns. The measures to be finally adopted on this head must be the result of mutual concessions: & what they will be remains quite uncertain. Whether one general land- office ought to be opened, or one in each State is a question unde cided, There being different opinions among the members present. But the price of the land is the chief question after all. If the liberties of this Country are preserved it will, in my humble opinion, be done by paying & not by funding the national debt. I am therefore of opin ion with those who are for making the most of what we have to carry to market. I find the public creditors are very apprehensive that Congress will set an high price on their lands. We are told of the immense tracts of land the particular States have to dispose of—& of the lands at the dis posal of the British Crown adjoining their water boundary, which it will be their intrest not only to give away; but to hire people to settle on—in order to preserve their fur-trade. A Major General a few days ago told me that he did not think our lands would fetch us above an eighth of a Dollar per acre. I replied by asking if his Conscience would let him take eighty thousand acres of that land for his Commu tation only, (for it would come to so much nearly) when no nation, not even the British, ever gave any General Officer more than a Colonels half-pay! Some are of opinion that it would be politic to throw all our West ern Country into a bank & sell it out as bank stock—the Stockholders to chuse a Company of directors & to make the most of their property. But in my opinion this would be of too great magnitude to be effected in this Country. It might be more practicable in an ancient & wealthy Country such as England, or France. Such was the Missisippi Scheme in France, which paid the public debts, tho it ruined Individuals. A motion has been referred to a Grand Committie for a requisition on the States to pay intrest on the public debt—another motion has also been referred to the same Committee for requisition for the expences of the current year. 3 The Comee have not yet reported but have agreed to require of the States—
