February 24, 1784 387 Arnold (the name is nearly illegible). See PCC, item 186, fol. 1. The dates under which Thomson entered these nominations conflict with Lee’s testimony that they had taken place by or on February 24, although this letter is clearly dated. Lee’s reference to “the old trick” being played again, though obscure, suggests that he felt that his own nomina tion by Bland the precedingjune had been compromised. Congress finally appointed John Jay secretary for foreign affairs on May 7, 1784. See JCC, 26:354-55. For consid eration of James McClurg for this post, see also these Leiters, 19: 436n.3, 20:326n.9. Thomas Mifflin to George Clinton Sir, Annapolis Feby 24, 1784 I am directed by Congress to inform your Excellency that “Nine States not having been represented but for a few days since the Ad journment of Congress to this place, the arrangement of Garrisons for the Western and Northern Posts has not been entered upon nor can it be considered till the States become more attentive to keeping up a full representation in Congress.” 1 The States not represented are New Hampshire, New York, Delaware, Maryland and Georgia. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect and esteem Your Excellency’s Most Obedient and humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For this congressional resolution, adopted this day in response to a letter from Clin ton of January 31 (which is in PCC, item 38, fols. 403-4), see JCC, 26:93. Richard Dobbs Spaight to Alexander Martin Sir, Annapolis 24th Feby. 1784. In my letter of the 15 th Jany. 1 I informed your Excellency of the rat ification of the definitive Treaty, and the mode adopted by Congress forwarding those dispatches to our Commissioners at Paris for ex change. The French packet in which Colo Harmer goes had not sailed on the 7th Inst., in attempting to go out of the hook some days before the quantity of ice was so great, she missed stays and got aground on Governors Island; she has since got off and ready to proceed to sea as soon as the wind and weather will permit. Lieut Colo Franks is also at N York he intends going in the Edward Capt Couper bound to Lon don. Your[s] of the 8th Decemr. directed to the Delegation came to hand only this day owing to the irregularity of the Southern post which has been almost Stopp’d by the great falls of snow and the severity of the season. There has been no mail from No Carolina since 25th Decbr. I cannot at present inform in what manner the Continen-
