March 1, 1784 395 may have in view to add to or to increase her national strength. Pas sion or folly may sometimes govern her councils but in time she will observe her error & attempt to correct the fault. I think as national advantages are to be deriv’d from it she will turn her attention to these provinces & there is a kind of energy in the natives of that coun try wh. is not to be found in the peasantry of any, of the monarchies of Europe. When any of the Countries are overstock’d, in France or Spn. the overplus turn beggars in the street or starve, but the people of Engld. seek a dwelling in foreign climes & in distant countries. I suppose therefore these provinces will prove a drain to the surplus of Citizens in Brittn. What will be their policy with respect to these provinces & whither they will extend to them the freedom of the B. constitution or Nation I cannot pretend to say. Be this as it may will it not [be] a desirable circumstance to us to prevl. on them to keep few or no troops in Canada & will not this be the proper subject for a con vention betwn. us? But if they will not acceed to it I still think with you that the defence of the country shod, be thrown on the militia. FC (DLC: Monroe Papers). In the hand of James Monroe. 1 Date left blank in Monroe’s draft; the RC has not been found. 2 Lee’s January 5 letter is in the Monroe Papers, DLC; and Lee, letters (Ballagh), 2:286-90. Jonathan Blanchard to Josiah Bartlett Sir Annapolis March 1st. 1784. I arrived in this City on Saturday eve’ last after a Tedious & Expen sive Journey and had the pleasure to find Mr. Foster 1 well tho’ rather low in Finance. To day I have attended Congress & had the honour of dining with the Presidt. Some of the Members have been unwell, Others Absent for Several days, that there has hardly been a Quorum of the house— there are 9 States now Represented in Congress. 2 You will be pleased to Excuse particular detail at this time, in my next I shall do my self the honour of Transmitting every degree of in telligence in my power—the post leaves this City early in the morning. I can only say that, I am Sir, Your Most hble Servant, Jona. Blanchard 3 RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Blanchard’s colleague Abiel Foster wrote the following brief note this day to Samuel Holten at Danvers, Mass. “I enclose a Letter [not found] to my Honrd. Father at An dover, and beg the favor, that to the other many & great civilities I have received from you, you will please to superadd that of forwarding the same by some safe conveyance. In doing this you will lay me under fresh obligations.” Roberts Collection, PHC.
