March 3, 1784 405 York on the 20th of Jan. Colo. Franks took his passage in another ves sel a few days after. Neither sailed till the 17th of Feb., being blocked up by the ice. 6 They have certainly then not got to Paris to exchange them this day as had been stipulated. In right this can make no differ ence. We executed the ratification in time, and it’s passage across the Atlantic was prevented by circumstances not under our controul. The accomodation of the Turks and Russians, leaving Europe in Peace and France of course at liberty, keeps us safe. This accomodation is said to have been effected by the interposition of France & Prussia. This does not come from our ministers, from whom we have had no late intelli gence on this subject, but is told me by Monsr. Marbois who sais he had it from good information. We are still further insured against any ill effect from this accident if the news of the day be true. An English vessel, arrived at N. York, brings papers which say that Ld. North & Mr. Fox carried their E. India bill triumphantly by % of the voices through the house of commons, but lost it in the lords, whereon they resigned; and that Mr Pitt & his friends would be at the head of the administration. The Prince of Wales voted against the bill & received a reprimand from the king. So far the papers. The change would be for tunate for us, as Ld. North’s hostility is notorious, and Pitt rather well disposed to us. The movements of the K. of Prussia to emancipate the navigation of the Vistula, and of the emperor to free that of the Scheid, do not I beleive threaten the peace of Europe. On the con trary they indicate that they have no great work on hand. This asser tion then of the natural right of the inhabitants of the upper part of a river to an innocent passage through the country below is rather pleasing to us. It tends to establish a principle favourable to our right of navigating the Missisipi. We are now engaged in making an estimate of the expences of the current year. It appears that the Commissioners sent to the several states to settle their accounts add so unreasonable a proportion to the expences of the Finance department, that it is my opinion Congress will recall them after some not very distant day. I mention this that your Excellency may keep an eye over the progress of the state-settle ment with Mr. Turner & push it unremittingly to avoid the being obliged to send the vouchers, accounts &c. to Philadelphia for such parts as shall not be completed before the recall. I have the honour to be with sentiments of very high respect & es teem Your Excellency’s Most obedt. & most humble servt., Th. Jefferson RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:4—6. 1 See Jefferson to James Madison, February 20, note 15. 2 That is, David Howell. See JCC, 26:112-17. 3 John Beatty. 4 Probably John Montgomery, but see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:7n.
