406 March 3, 1784 5 For the identity of Jefferson’s enclosure, see John Francis Mercer to Harrison, November 11, 1783, note 2. 6 See Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard, March 1, note 7. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Sir Annapolis 3d. March 1784. 1 It is disagreeable to us to inform your Excellency, that no Determi nation hath been yet taken with respect to the Memorial concerning the Brigantine Luzannah. 2 Nine States are now present, but so much important business had Accumilated, & is now necessary to be compleated without delay, that it will be impossible to bring any Matter, (which doth not relate to the United States at large) under consideration, & until those great Na tional Objects are provided for; these we hope from the Dispatch, which hath already been given to public Matters, since Congress have been competent to the business of Nine States, will soon be com pleated, so far as to Admit of matters, relating to the Individual States, to be considered. It will be our care to lose no time, in Obtaining the earliest decession on this Question, and in Transmitting the same to your Excellency. We are authorized to inform you, that on the first instant the Dele gates from Virginia, executed & Deliver’d a Deed to the United States, Agreeable to an Act of that state, of all their Right and Title of said state, to the Lands North-westward of the River Ohio—and Congress are now employed, in making the necessary arrangements for a Treaty with the Indians, & purchase of Lands from them; have chose General Clark of Virginia, General Green of Rhode Island, Mr. Higginson of Massachusetts, Mr. Woolcot of Connecticut, & Colo. Butler of Pensylva- nia, Commissioners for that purpose. 3 It is proposed that as soon as the Treaty & purchase shall be compleated, to lay out that Western Terri tory into states, and to Open a Land Office, for the sale of some part— and the proceeds to be applied to the discharge of the public Debt. Congress have also under Consideration Instructions to their Ministers abroad for negotiating Treaties of Commerce with European Powers. We flatter our selves, that in about ten Weeks, Congress may ad journ, & have a Recess of Six Months. We have the honour to be Your Excellencys, Most Obedient humble Servants, Abiel Foster Jona. Blanchard. RG (Joseph Rubenfine, Pleasantville, NJ., 1977). Written by Blanchard and signed by Blanchard and Foster.
