March 5, 1784 415 lance of power is to be pursued—State of the Negotiations between their High Mightinesses the States of Holland & their High Mighti ness the Congress of the U. S.—State of our National Debt & the Schemes of Finance proposed for discharging of it—Cession of the Western Territory & the plans devised for disposing & settling that valuable & Extended Empire—Arrangement of our Foreign affairs— what Ministers are to be sent abroad & who are to be called home— State of Commerce & the several Treatys to be Entered into to cherish & protect it—& in short a succinct Narative of what has been done, is doing & is about to be transacted in Congress—a very pretty piece of Buisness to be sure. But as I cannot enter upon all these points at once I must beg you will inform me, where I am to begin; & how Minute a detail will be agreeable to you—& perhaps some future let ter may gratify your wishes. Our Situation here is tolerably agreeable, will be much more so, when the severity of the Season abates & we can take more exercise on Foot or horseback. The Inhabitants are polite & Hospitable—Balls, routs, assemblys, Tournaments, Concerts, plays, Fandango’s, & every species of Amusements prevail here—& I know not whether thro the all powerfull influence of Fashion, we Congressional republicans or plebians, may not shortly assume the Dress & Manners of the Patri cians or Nobles—of Annapolis—at present there are nine States on the floor of Congress & as chief of the Business pending before them, require by the Confederation the assent of Nine, to give efficacy to a Measure, things, succeed slowly—we are however daily in Expectation of N. York & Delaware—& Maryland, when we shall make a more rapid progress. I am to beg I may hear from you soon, thro the chan nel of Archy—& that you will present my affectionate regards to my Numerous Friends at Neshaminy. Yours with much Esteem, J- Beatty. MS not found; reprinted from PMHB44 (1920): 236-37. 1 Dr. Reading Beatty (1757-1831), who had been captured at Fort Washington in November 1776 while serving as a lieutenant in the Fifth Pennsylvania Battalion, had served as surgeon in the Eleventh Pennsylvania and Fourth Continental Artillery regi ments, 1780-1783. See “Letters from Continental Officers to Doctor Reading Beatty, 1781-1788,” PMHB54 (April 1930): 155-74; and “Letters of the Four Beatty Brothers of the Continental Army, 1774-1794,” PMHB44 (July 1920): 193-99. Jonathan Blanchard to Josiah Bartlett Sir Annapolis March 5th. 1784. I do my self the honour to put under Cover, for your perusal, an Ex tract of a Law pass’d in Jersey, for establishing a Revenue &c, you will find in that Act, a Succedaneum for hard money, which we seem not to have. That only the amount of one Years interest is to be emitted in paper. 1
