March 5, 1784 417 Elbridge Gerry to Samuel R. Gerry Dear Comr. Annapolis 5th March 1784 I am favoured with yours of Jany 27th by the last Post, inclosing Sales of Flower &c—the Sales rendered are good, but the Voyages miserable, sinking two fifths of the Capital. You have not informed me whether the 49J4 barells of Flower mentioned in the Sales, is the whole of my proportion of the two Cargoes, but I suppose this to be the Case. I sent you an a/c of 46/5 lawful pd for the Dinah which I presume you have stoppd. Pray inform me whether Robin son is to be charged with any Part, & what of the 28.0.4. I am doubtful whether it will be best to purchase the Fably, unless she goes off cheap. She is very old, & will require so much to fit her out, that if You can get £30, for %, or at least, as much as with my proportion of her Wood Freights, will make that Sum & also pay all her Accounts since she arrived from the West Indies, it will be best not to bid for her. It will be also best not to mention any thing relative to Colo Johonnot. I presume he will hear of the Matter & take proper Measures to resent the Injury; for such I conceive it to be, more especially as he is returned to Massachusetts. You have not informed me what Money You want out of the sales, untill yours shall arrive from Cadiz, nor how much Wood is received from the Fably for Freight, nor how it is disposed off. I am happy to hear you are all well. Tell my little Folks, uncle wants much to see them, & expects to hear very fine Characters of them, on his return. With my Regards to all Friends, I bid you adieu dear Comr. Yours sincerely, E Gerry. [PS.] I have no News of Robinson. He is already a Cruiser, & before I see him, will be Robinson Crusoe. In your next send the Sales of the other Flower &C. 1 RC (MHi: Gerry Collection). Addressed: “Mr Samuel R. Gerry, Merchant, Marblehead.” 1 Gerry also wrote the following letter to his brother on March 15. “1 am this Moment favoured with yours by Capt Dennis of the 26th of December. The Vessel has been in the Bay near two Months, & is now about two or three Miles from hence, waiting an oppertunity, which the Ice at present prevents, of sailing for Baltimore. Robinson, the Mate informs me is very Desirous of being landed, having rarely ventured himself on Deck, since he left Salem. I have given Directions for the Delivery of both him & the Box of Fish; & request You to send his Cloathes, if You have a prospect of his obtaining them by or before the latter End of April or begin ning of May. 1 answered your Letter of October the 25th on the 5th of Novr. & your other Letters of Novr 25th & Deer 2d on the 19th of Deer.” Gerry Collection, MHi.
