418 March 5, 1784 Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Colonel Annapolis 5th March 1784 I have a spare Moment to acknowledge your Favour by Mr Blan chard, whom I am very glad to see in Congress. I have not received any Letter from You since I left Massachusetts, except that above men tioned, so that if two were sent by the post, they must have been inter cepted. I saw Colo Lee in this Place, soon after my arrival here, & he of his own accord enquired about You & mentioned the Note. I thought it had been sent to You, but upon Examination found it amongst my papers, & immediately wrote him a Billet, informing him of the Fact. He soon left Town & I have neither heard from nor seen him since. As he expressed a Desire of paying the Note probably he will be here before I leave the place & make payment. If not, I wish to know whether You would have the Note left with one of my Collegues, or of your Delegates, who will probably continue on a Committee of the States, should Congress adjourn as they now propose in May next? Schweighauser is dead, & I have not been able to obtain either your Ballance or my own. I wrote by a Captain of a Ship which I partly owned & which discharged at Nantes about two Years ago, but could get no answer. The Sums are so small I suppose they think them not worthy Notice, when to be paid, but not so, when to be received. Adieu my friend & believe me to be Yours sincerely, E Gerry [PS.] The Marquis La Fayette will be here in the Spring. He writes in Deer, that there will be no War between the Russians & Turks, this Year, but the Dispute is not, & probably will not be amicably adjusted. The Cession of the Western Territory is completed & the Deeds ex- ecutd to the united states by the Delegates of Virginia. An indian peace is to be negotiated by General Green, General Woolcot, Mr Hig ginson, Colo Butler of Pennsylvania & General Clarke of Virginia. All former Commissions are abrogated relative to Indians. Fox & North are ousted by their Attempts to carry the India Bill & Mr Pitt is brot into Administration. RC (NIC: Irving, Life of Washington, Sage Collection). Samuel Hardy to Benjamin Harrison $i r Annapolis 5th March 1784. I have the honour to inform your Excellency that Congress have ac cepted the Cession of our western territory: and we have in conformity
