March 15, 1784 431 state of Congress is not new to you. We have only 9 states present, 8 of whom are represented by two members each, and of course, on all great questions not only an unanimity of states but of members is nec essary, an unanimity which never can be obtained on a matter of any importance. The consequence is that we are wasting our time & la bour in vain efforts to do business. Nothing less than the presence of 13 states represented by an odd number of delegates will enable us to get forward a single capital point. The deed for the cession of Western territory by Virginia was executed & accepted on the 1st instant. 1 I hope our country will of herself determine to cede still further to the meridian of the mouth of the Great Kanhaway. Further she cannot govern; so far is necessary for her own well being. The reasons which call for this boundary (which will retain all the waters of the Kan haway) are 1. that within that are our lead mines. 2. This river rising in N. Carola, traverses our whole latitude and offers to every part of it a channel for navigation & commerce to the Western country: but 3. it is a channel which can not be opened but at immense expence and with every facility which an absolute power over both shores will give. 4. This river & it’s waters forms a band of good land passing along our whole frontier, and forming on it a barrier which will be strongly seated. 5. For 180 miles beyond these waters is a mountainous barren which can never be inhabited & will of course form a safe separation between us & any other state. 6. This tract of country lies more conve nient to receive it’s government from Virginia than from any other state. 7. It will preserve to us all the upper parts of Yohogany & Cheat rivers within which much will be to be done to open these which are the true doors to the Western commerce. The union of this naviga tion with that of the Patowmac is a subject on which I mentioned that I would take the liberty of writing to you. I am sure it’s value and prac ticability are both well known to you. This is the moment however for seizing it if ever we mean to have it. All the world is becoming com mercial. Was it practicable to keep our new empire separated from them we might indulge ourselves in speculating whether commerce contributes to the happiness of mankind. But we cannot separate our selves from them. Our citizens have had too full a taste of the com forts furnished by the arts & manufactures to be debarred the use of them. We must then in our own defence endeavor to share as large a portion as we can of this modern source of wealth & power. That of fered to us from the Western country is under a competition between the Hudson, the Patomac & the Missisipi itself. Down the last will pass all heavy commodities. But the navigation through the gulf of Mexico is so dangerous, & that up the Missisipi so difficult & tedious, that it is not probable that European merchandize will return through that channel. It is most likely that flour, lumber & other heavy articles will be floated on rafts which will be themselves an article of sale as well as
