March 18, 1784 441 or any Senior Officer in that department that I remember as one of that Corps—in the Service of the United States.” Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Series, 1:243-44. Gerry subsequently enclosed Washington’s response and Gridley’s letter in the fol lowing note of April 2 to Adams. “Inclosed are the Papers which you sent me respecting Colo Gridley’s Demand, & General Washington’s answer to a Letter, which agreable to your Request, I wrote him, on the Subject.” Both this note and Gridley’s letter are in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Thomas Jefferson to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis Mar. 18. 1784. In my letter of the 3d inst. I mentioned to you the gazette account of a change in the British ministry. Just in the moment of the depar ture of the post we received a letter from the Marquis Fayette 1 con firming the account of the change, and rectifying that of the vote of the Prince of Wales. The letter which had come here supposed the king a friend to the E. India bill & that the Prince voted against it. The Marquis sais that the king by a special maneuvre got Fox & North committed on the fate of their bill which they carried thro’ the com mons, but by his practices were disappointed in the Lords, in which latter stage the Prince voted for the bill, in opposition to his father. Dr. Franklin’s letter containing an interesting paragraph I have copied it & take the liberty of inclosing it. 2 We have had no post since that which carried my letter of the 3d nor are we certain when to ex pect one. I am therefore obliged to have letters in readiness, to seize the moment of his coming as he does not stay above an hour here. Hence it happens that my letters are sometimes a week or a fortnight old before they leave the post office. I have the honor to be with great respect & esteem Dr Sir, Your most obedt. & most humble servt. P.S. The Marquis Fayette is coming out this spring. Mr. Laurence is supposed to be on his way to America, Mr. Adams left England for the Hague & Mr. Jay at Bath but about to return to Paris. 3 RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Signature clipped. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:42. 1 For the arrival of letters from the Marquis de Lafayette, Benjamin Franklin, and oth ers, see Jonathan Blanchard to Josiah Bartlett, March 5, note 4. 2 For Jefferson’s transcript of this paragraph from Franklin’s December 25, 1783, letter admonishing Congress to “preserve the friendships we have acquired abroad” as a safe guard against the continuing malignant policy of the British court, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:42-43. 3 The following day Jefferson also wrote a letter to his daughter Martha in Philadel phia inquiring about the progress of her education and telling her to inform Mrs. Mary House that the Virginia delegates had recently received a letter from her daughter, Mrs. Nicholas Trist, at Fort Pitt. See ibid., pp. 43-44.
