442 March 19, 1784 Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard Sir Annapolis 19th March 1784. Your favour of the 28th February by Mr. John Dove (the returning Express) came to hand on the 16th Inst. I thank your Excelly. for the News Papers accompanying your short Letter & shall look with much Anxiety for the Instructions & other Proceedings of our Legislature. I hope these will not be long delayed as ’tis highly probable one of the Points on which I wrote may be soon agitated in Congress. I find my Countrymen have done me the honour to place me in the new delegation. I am always sensible of their favours, but some family Occurrences particularly the death of my only Uncle & to take some steps in his Affairs will render my return to Carolina indispensibly nec essary as soon as a new representation can arrive. 1 I beg your Excelly. will urge the Necessity of their setting forward at any early day. Congress have it in Contemplation to adjourn in May & we wish the Assistance of the newly elected Delegates before that Period as well as to receive from them the Information they possess of the state of Matters in Carolina. I am with the greatest respect & regard Your Excellency’s Most obliged & most obedient servant (signed) Jacob Read P.S. I had the honour of your favour by Mr. Shutdeworth who is now in this Port. I scribble this as the Post is just about to set off. The un certainty of this Mode of Conveyance occasions my being less prolix than I otherwise shou’d. I shall write by a Vessel immediately from this Port in a few days. Tr (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). 1 Read had been reelected on February 10 by the South Carolina assembly which also elected Pierce Butler, Alexander Gillon, Henry Laurens, and William Moultrie as dele gates. Butler declined and shortly thereafter Moultrie was elected lieutenant governor. They were replaced in March by John Bull and Charles Pinckney. In the meantime, the assembly passed a special resolution in mid-February directing Read and Richard Beres ford to retain their seats in Congress “until a sufficient number of the Delegates Elected to represent this State shall arrive.” See JCC, 26:146, 27:646-47. Hugh Williamson to Alexander Martin Sir, Annapolis 19th. March 1784 On the 26th of September last the Delegation had the honor of ex- plain’g to your Excellency some of the reasons that induced Congress to recommend certain measures to the several States in the union; and expressed their hope that North Carolina would not be among the last in adopting the proposed impost in particular, which would
