March 19, 1784 443 not only be of all taxes the least burthensome to the Citizens, but must opperate strongly in favour of our State. For the general detail of occurrences during the last year, or for the particular explanation of any matters refered to in that or any other of our joint Letters, I shall now take the liberty of refering you to my wor thy friend & honorable collegue Mr Hawkins who has served during the whole of the last year with so much reputation to himself, and ad vantage to the nation. Your excellency and the State may wish to be informed of the cir cumstances of the ratification of the definitive Treaty and the conse quent recommendations which are sent to the states, and of such other important matters as are yet pending before Congress. From the papers which are forwarded by our Secretary you will learn that the definitive Treaty was not ratified before the 14th of January; 1 by a se ries of neglects or accidents it had long been coming to our hands, and some weeks afterwards elapsed before we had nine States present. The officers whom we sent in different Vessels with the ratification were both so long detained by the ice and bad weather, that we have reason to fear that they should not arrive in Paris before the 3d of March, the last day allowed for the exchange of ratifications. Appre hending that an accident of this sort might occur, and that other terms less palatable might be offered us in case the Treaty was lost by our latches [laches] , 2 the most pressing measures were attempted to bring forward a full representation. The Journals for the 23d of De cember will explain some of the steps that were taken. 3 After waiting some days longer, I confess that I was one of those who would have submitted to the risque of ratifying by seven States rather than loose the Treaty. Our reasons are contained in the paper annexed No 1 4 which was for some days the subject of debate; at length an officer whom we had dispatched for the purpose, brought Members enough to make nine states. Our opinion was, that the ratification by Seven states was good on behalf of the United States; and Great Britain who is not to judge of our Constitution must have received it as good, but we might have incured the displeasure and censure of our con stituents on the supposition that we had violated the spirit of the con federation. We conceived however that on great & pressing occasions, the Man who is honored with the dearest concerns of his Country would ill deserve that honor if he was not willing to risque his political existence or even his temporal existence in order to preserve the hap piness & Peace of his Country. With respect to the recommendations which are sent to the States in consequence of the Treaty, you will be pleased to observe that Congress had many reasons for defering them to this late hour. They have indeed been zealously pressed by the commander in chief of the British forces in america to make these recommendations immediately
