March 19, 1784 445 several States to cause an account of their losses to be taken was put into the hands of the British Minister as a proff that we were collecting materials, that we might be ready to settle such acct. From that hour no further demands were made of the restitution of tory property and a long negotiation terminated as you have it in the 5th, 6th & 7th arti cles. The proposition I have refered to is annexed No 4. 7 Our Ministers in their joint Letter say “It is much to be wished that the legislatures may not involve all the tories in banishment & ruin but that such dis criminations may be made as to entitle their decessions to the approba tion of disinterested Men.” 8 It gives much pleasure to cool dispassion ate observers to see that the Legislature of North Carolina has not gone into the banishment of that numerous class of misguided People who continued lurking in the State, though in the Eye of Justice they might have forfeited both property and life. Though there have been times in which it was necessary to cut off a limb in order to save the body politic, we are now happy in having at that period in which, to im itate the author of our being, offenders, who are not of the worst class, may be suffered to repent & return to their duty. On the last summer the Delegates received a Letter from H. E. Mc- Culloh who seems to be fully persuaded that his estate will be restored to him. I believe we were quite as well persuaded that his estate will not be restored to him, however that may be the Letter is enclosed. In our Letter of the 26th of September we took the liberty to repre sent to Your Excellency the fatal mistake of many of our Merchants in pushing their vessels into British ports and the more fatal mistake of some of the States in opening their ports to the British vessels without waiting for advice or giving Congress time to negotiate a Treaty, which at that period Great Britain would have acceded to on very desirable terms. By these errors our trade is destroyed and experience has taught those merchants, so covetous of British connections that they were mistaken. Certainly experience keeps a dear School though we daily see people who will not learn in any other. By the annexed pa pers No. 5 9 you will see what prospects we had of a favourable com merce before it was known in England that our ports were open to their vessels. By the papers No 6, seperate, you will observe that many of the States are now convinced that it is necessary to vest Congress with the power of protecting commerce by mercantile Treaties. 10 Great Britain has presumed that in the hour of peace the States would not support one another. On this supposition her proclamation was is sued for cutting off our trade with the West Indies. The spirit that is now rising in the States will be apt to convince her that she has been mistaken, as on many former occasions, when she counted on our want of union. From the good sense of the Legislature of N Carolina & their uniform desire to support federal measures, I am not to doubt what part they will take on this occasion.
