446 March 19, 1784 Congress are now engaged in preparing instructions for their minis ters abroad for negotiating Treaties with the several commercial pow ers in Europe with whom we have none at present. Virginia has compleated her Cession of territory to the United States, by which we may be enabled to pay of no small part of the na tional Debt. I have taken some pains, by comparing the most accurate Maps with the observations of Gentlemen who have been in the West ern Countries, to estimate the quantity & value of the territory now belonging to the United States on the West of the Ohio. There are somewhat more than 186 millions of acres. Of this quantity 44 mil lions of acres are to the Northward of latitude 45°. This Country being neither very fertile nor well timbered will not for ages be of much use, except for hunting ground. Between the latitude 45° and 42 there are above 44 millions of acres. This Country is in general fer tile & well timbered but the Indians will expect the exclusive use of it for a considerable time. Between the parallel of 42 degrees latitude & the river Ohio, extended between the state of Pensylvania & the river Mississippi there are about 85 millions of acres. In this Country the lands are extremely fertile and there is hardly any part of america so little broken by mountains. I presume that it may be sold at 25 Dollars for the hundred acres by which a debt of 20 millions may be paid off, after 5 millions of acres have been deducted, which is more than suffi cient for paying our late army the lands due them. An object which holds out the prospect of sinking near half of our national debt cer tainly claims the most serious attention. In pursuance of this object the next thing to be attempted is a treaty with the Indians who are daily soliciting that we should enter into such treaty. We have reason to expect that they will yield us a considerable tract in consequence of the outrages they have committed during the late war, and we propose buying as much more as they can be prevailed on [to] sell. Congress are desirous of being ready to treat whenever the Summer ap proaches. In whatever light, from time and habit we may view a large Nation in debt, it is certainly a chain of slavery. It will constantly be found that “the borrower is a servant to the lender" and those debts which are the necessary cause of taxation must prove the necessary source of grief. For these reasons I presume it is our duty to leave no honest measures unattempted by which we may pay of[f] the national debt. As the Citizens of our State have little foreign commerce, have little intercourse with Strangers and have not so many opportunities of re ceiving information concerning national & foreign occurrences as are presented to people in large commercial Cities, I have the rather thought it my duty to trouble you with so long a letter and to forward so many extracts. The State has an undoubted right to expect infor-
