March 23, 1784 453 Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis Mar. 22. 1784. We inclose to your Excellency by the bearer Mr. McAlister an Exem plification of the deed of Cession 1 executed according to the directions of the act of assembly transmitted us, and have the honor to be with very high respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. & most humble servt. Th. Jefferson Arthur Lee S. Hardy Jas. Monroe. John F. Mercer RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Jefferson and signed by Jefferson, Hardy, Lee, Mercer, and Monroe. 1 This letter and the exemplification were printed in Hening, Statutes, 11:571-75. For Congress’ acceptance on March 1 of Virginia’s deed to its lands beyond the Ohio River, see Jefferson to James Madison, February 20, note 15. David Howell to Jabez Bowen Sir, Annapolis March 23, 1784. I have not been able as yet to obtain a copy of the act of the Legisla ture of N. Jersey investing Congress with power to levy & collect a 5 per Cent Impost, &c. Their act for raising a revenue of 83,358 Dollars per annum for the space of 25 years has come to my hands & I have made sufficient extracts therefrom in the paper No. 1, to give an Idea of their plan. 1 I call it their plan because it is manifestly short of a com pliance with that proposed by Congress on the 18th of April 1783, which requires “The said last mentioned revenue to be collected by persons appointed as aforsd, but to be carried to the separate credit of the States within which they shall be collected,” whereas this N. Jer sey revenue is to be collected by their County & Town collectors ap pointed by, & amenable only to, that State, & over whom Congress is to have no ControuL The State of N. Jersey hath gone the farthest to wards a compliance with the views of Congress of any State I have yet heard of; yet their failure in this point will defeat all they have done according to the strict resolve of Congress which requires “that none of the preceding resolutions shall take effect untill all of them shall be acceded to by every State." Enclosed in paper No. 2 is a copy of an act of the State of N. Hamp shire in [v] esting Congress with power to levy & collect a 5 per Cent Impost. 2 This act is formed on the groundwork of the Massachusetts
