462 March 27, 1784 MS not found; reprinted from Oide Ulsterb (April 1909): 110. 1 DeWitt had just arrived in Annapolis and took his seat in Congress this day. During his stay in Philadelphia enroute to Maryland, DeWitt had written the following letter to his son Gerret on the 16th describing the city and his impression of Van Berckel. “I now write you from a place the most magnificent that ever I saw and perhaps it may be ranked among the finest Cities in the World, the houses are elegant the streets spa cious and notwithstanding four horses were necessary and even six before we reached this city, to drag us though the mud, we walk here without the least difficulty with clean shoes on pavements as clean as a house floor. I suspect my situation at Annapolis will not be so agreeable, however I am again informed here that there is a probability of re turning soon from that place northward. “I have this day dined with the Minister of France, the Chevalier (for so he is called) as well as his Secretary treated me with great politeness and civility. Tomorrow I am to wait on the Minister of the United Netherlands whom I saw this day in the street and was introduced to him by my old friend Gouverneur Morris, he appears to be as plain a Dutchman as I am, indeed I believe I rather exceeded him in dress, however you must know I am rather better dressed on this occasion than usual. “As soon as an opportunity occurs I shall set out from this place for Baltimore, I brot with me several letters of introduction from New York Gentlemen to Gentlemen in this place, in consequence of which I have a great many invitations and am treated with great respect.” Oide Ulster, 5:84—85. James McHenry to Margaret McHenry Sunday 28th March 1784. Writing to his wife for the first time after taking his seat in Congress the preceding day, the newly-married McHenry complained of the burden imposed by his attendance at Congress. “In truth, I am no longer anxious to please my state, seeing it cannot be done without sacrificing too much of your company. It is time too that I should accommodate my leisure and industry to our prospects and circumstances. Neither of us can be happy under a long separation; nor can our interest be promoted by my sitting in Congress. My first object was to get you to Baltimore, to see you mis tress of your house, and pleased in your new situation—but a strong hand restrains me where I am and delays that necessary event. 1 I fear my beloved that I shall not have it in my power to move from this place sooner than the first of May. It is a tedious period—but unless I do what I have censured others for doing I cannot make it shorter.” 2 MS not found; reprinted from Steiner, James McHenry, pp. 78-79. I For an explanation of the “strong hand” that kept McHenry in Annapolis until the end of April, see McHenry to William Paca, March 15, 1784. 2 McHenry continued to write Peggy regularly while they were separated, but his let ters contain little of public interest. Writing on April 1 he observed that he had dined “at different houses every day this week” and that he had also “been very busy in Congress.” Steiner, James McHenry, p. 79. For letters of March 30 and April 4, 7, 8, and 13, see ibid., pp. 79-81.
