March 29, 1784 463 Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Annapolis 29th March 1784 There has been but little business of public Importance done in Congress for some time past for want of a fuller representation, all the States are now represented except Deleware and Georgia, a New ap pointment is soon expected from Deleware as the Assembly of that State were to convene this day. There are four or five Matters of im portance that will require the attention of Congress before the ad journment which is expected to be in May. Instructions to the Ministers in Europe to propose and conclude treaties with most of the Commercial States in Europe are now under consideration. A report of a Committee consisting of one Member from each State present has been made on ways & means for payment of the Interest in arrear on the foreign and domestic debts, and for the current expences of the present Year, which it appears may be done without making any New requisitions, but by application of part of the 8 Million dollars required by the resolution of Novr. 1781. 1 Another report is made respecting the reduction of the Civil List both as to the Number of Officers, and the Salaries of those that are to remain. 2 Five Commissioners have been appointed to Treat with the Northern and Middle Tribes of Indians and to obtain from them a release of their claim to a tract of territory Sufficient for one or more States North west of the Ohio, and west of Pensylvania. The Gentle men appointed are Generals Clark, Wolcot and Green, a Col. Butler of Pensylvania and Mr. Steven Higgison of Boston; they are allowed Six & an half dollars per day for their Services and expences while em ployed in the Service. Some further Instructions to the Commission ers for Settling accounts are under consideration. These are the prin cipal matters to be transacted before the adjournment. The answer to the Address of the Honble. House of Representatives of the State of Connecticut has been reported, and considered by paragraphs and amended as far as Congress thought proper, it only remains to take a question on the whole which has been delayed for Some time in order to have a full Congress. 3 Enclosed is a copy of the Answer to the Legislature of Massachusetts on the Same Subject 4 — also extracts from Several of the last Letters from our Commissioners in Europe, Shewing in what light our republican Governments are viewed there. I wish that we may cut off all occasion from those who desire Occasion to Speak evil of us, and injure the reputation [of] ris ing States. The letters contain No other i[n]formation of much importance. There is Some talk of leaving a Committee of the States when
