464 March 29, 1784 Congress adjourn, but it has not yet been determined—if one Should be appointed it would not be convenient for me to Stay, and General Wadsworth Says that he Should not be willing to continue here after the rising of Congress. I dont learn that the people at Wyoming are likely to get any releif from the General Assembly of Pensylvania. Their Complaint against Paterson & others was referred to a Commit tee who reported that the law was open to them, and that it is not proper for the Legislature [to] interpose. I am with great respect, Your Excellency’s humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (MHi: Miscellaneous Bound Collection). 1 See David Howell to Jabez Bowen, March 12, note 1. 2 See Committee of Congress to Robert Morris, February 1, 1784. 3 See Connecticut Delegates to William Williams, January 15, note 2. 4 See Elias Boudinot to John Hancock, October 1, 1783. Charles Thomson to John Dickinson and Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Annapolis 29th March 1784 In pursuance of the within Act of the United States in Congress Assembled, I had the honor of forwarding to your Excellency on the 26th January last, 1 in the terms prescribed, a notification of the ap plication made to Congress for the institution of a Court to deter mine the private right of soil between the Individuals claiming under different States in that tract of Country which by a late foederal Court has been adjudged to Pennsylvania & of the, assign ment of a day for the parties to appear before Congress or a Com mittee of the States for instituting such Court agreeably to the Arti cles of Confederation. As I have not been favoured with an Answer, and it may become necessary to shew that the notification has been duly received, I must request Your Excellency to take the trouble of acknowledging the re ceipt of this or of my former Letter. 2 I have the honor to be &c. C. T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). Addressed: “The Governor of Connecticut & President of Pennsylvania.” 1 See Thomson to Dickinson and Trumbull, January 26, 1784. 2 For Governor Trumbull’s April 24 response to Thomson, see PCC, item 66, 2:266; and Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:396. Pennsylvania’s April 14 response was returned over the signature of John Armstrong, Jr., secretary of the council, for which see ibid., p. 392; and PCC, item 69, 2:477.
