478 April 2, 1784 Edward Hand to George Clinton Sir Annapolis 2d. April 1784 The Deligates from your State inform me That it is likely the Legis lature have before now agreed on the terms on which the Land office is to be opened, & that they have passed a Bill in consequence. Very desirous of securing a tract of Land in the State of New York, I take the liberty to trouble your Excellency on the subject, beging to be informed if the Land-Office be really opened or likely soon to be, on what terms & in what quantities lands are to be procured—if there be a possibility of securing a particular Spot, for myself & Family, & what Steps are immediately necessary to effect it. The Steps to be taken preparatory to Garrisoning the Frontier Posts are under the Consider ation of a Committee of which Mr. Paine is one. Instructions to our Ministers in Europe for forming Commercial Treaties, are now the Subject of Consideration. Eleven States are represented. Viz N.H., Massa., R.I., Connect., N.Y, N.J, Penns., Maryland, Virginia & the two Carolinas. With the greatest respect I have the honor to be, your Excellencys most Obedt. & very Hble Servt. Edwd. Hand RC (WHi: Clinton Papers). Thomasjefferson to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis. Apr. 2. 1784. We have received no foreign intelligence through any authentic channel since the letter from Dr. Franklin of Dec. 25. an extract from which I formerly did myself the honour of inclosing you. 1 Through different ways however, such as to merit beleif, we have information that the utmost confusion prevails in the British government. The House of commons on the 16th of January came to a vote that the ministry (Mr. Pitt and his associates) neither possessed nor ought to possess the confidence of the nation. One account sais that on this Mr. Pitt resigned. Another that he had not resigned and that the doubt was whether the king would dissolve the parliament or part with his ministry. The error in the composition of that administration seems to have been the filling it from the house of lords, and taking in not enough of the men of interest and talents in the house of com mons. Matters on the continent are quiet. The Emperor and Dutch have appointed commissioners to settle their difference. Whether his object was to have opened the Scheid, or whether the dispute arose about contested territory seems not very clear. I should have added to
