April 2,1784 479 the above intelligence that the city of London were warm for Mr. Pitt and had addressed the King to continue his favor to him. Your letter from Mount Vernon came safely to hand. 2 We have eleven states in Congress; and are applying ourselves solely to the important subjects. I am not without hopes that we shall be able by the first of May to ad journ till November. Nothing could prevent it but the loss of votes sometimes by divisions of the states, 8 of the 11 being represented by two members only. Any three of sixteen individuals can still defeat our endeavors, and your knowlege of men will suggest to you the possibil ity of 3 dissenting voices out of 16 on any question. Mr. Mercer the corresponding member for the month will perhaps be able to supply any intelligence which may escape me. I have the honour to be with very great esteem & respect Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble servt, Th. Jefferson 3 RC (PHi); reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:59-60. 1 See Jefferson to Harrison, March 18, note 2. 2 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:45—46. 3 Jefferson also wrote a similar letter this day to Edmund Pendleton, for which see ibid., pp. 60-61. On April 4 he wrote to his daughter Martha inquiring about her stud ies and informing her that “I am again getting my health, and have some expectation of going to Philadelphia ere long; but of this am not certain.” Ibid., p. 62. Pennsylvania Delegates to John Dickinson Sir Annapolis 2d April 1784 There being no doubt that Congress by Their Resolution of the 23d of January last meant that Commissioners or Judges should be ap pointed in June next to hear and determine the claim of the Con necticut Seders at Wyoming to the private right of Soil: 1 it only re mains for us to move for a re-consideration of that Act in compliance with the resolutions of the Honorable the General Assembly of the 14th of Feby. last. In order that at the same time we do this we may be able to shew, in the clearest light, the humane and generous inten tions of that Honorable Body towards those People, we request your Excellency may be pleased to transmit to us by the nex[t] Post, a copy of the resolution of the Honorable the General Assembly of the 2d of September last relative to this Subject & inform us of the cause or causes which gave rise to it, we also wish for an exact copy of the peti tion or application of the persons to whom grants of Land were made by the resolution of the 30th of January last. 2 Inclosed we have the honor to transmit a copy of alterations made in the Instructions of Congress to the Commissioners for negotiating with the Indians. 3
