April 5, 1784 489 impugning the dictates of common sense. As therefore it is possible that the component moieties of this Unit may sometimes find it con venient to occupy two spaces at one and the same time, I cannot think of abdicating the house at the corner of Spruce Street, which has for some time been a principal Object of my care. Were I to part with one or other of the places of my permanent resi dence, such is my prejudice in favour of old attachments and so far from having laid them aside that I could notwithstanding my growing fondness for Annapolis, much easier part with that house. I am, Dear Sir, Your sincere old friend & humble Servt C. T. FC (DLC: Thomson Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 Cf. Alexander Pope, Moral Essays, Epistle 1:172-73, “Manners with fortunes, hu mours turn with climes, Tenets with books, and principles with times.” 2 That is, Dr. Francis Alison, an influential educator with whom Thomson had lived and studied as a boy. Boyd S. Schlenther, Charles Thomson: A Patriot's Pursuit (Newark: University of Delaware Press, 1990), p. 20. Arthur Lee to Joseph Reed Dear Sir, Annapolis April 5th. 1784 By this time I hope your health has been materially benefitted by your voyage to Europe. Our latest Advices from London announce great violence & confusion arising from the contests between Pitt & Fox. In this Country we are more harmonious & composd. The ces sion of all the territory northwest of the Ohio, belonging to the Vir ginia, has been formally made by that State & accepted by Congress. Generals Clarke, Wolcot, Green, Butler & Mr. Higgenson are ap pointed to negociate a treaty & purchase from the Indians their claims, which will secure the settlements in that Country, & enable us to satisfy the demands of the Army, & sink the public debt by the sale of the Lands. A consummation devoutly to be wishd. I expect, if there is any sense left in the english Nation, they will turn their attention to Lord Shelburne, who I believe is the only man capable of saving their Country from the ruin that threatens it from such Counsellors & Contests. If you see Lord Shelburne, please to pre sent to him my best respects, & the same to Dr. Price. I beg you will make my Compts. to Mrs. & Mr. Deberdt. On the other side is a Copy of the report on your Letter. 1 It has not been acted upon, from the number of public matters which have occupyd Congress. Farewell. A. Lee [PS.] The Committee to whom was referrd a Letter of Deer. 13. 1783 from Jos. Reed Esqr. submit to Congress the following Resolution
