April 6, 1784 491 good Company, even thro the instrumentality of Monsieur Mont golfiers grand travelling aerial Machine, a Balloon. Since Colo Dicks arrival, 2 the State can set down easier under the Loss of Mr. Stevens’s assistance: Yet I could wish for his presence here; as 1 am persuaded it would add great respectability to the representa tion of New Jersey. He is a good man & deserves much of his Country. Should he not be able to Join us before the Middle of May; 3 it will per haps be adviseable for him, not to come, as in all probability Congress will adjourn by the first of June for the remainder of the Year. This is an Event much to be desired; as it will tend to remove the Idea, enter tained by many Jealous Minds; that Congress are assuming powers not warranted by the Confederation & attempting to render themselves a perpetual Body, having no recess. Added to this it will be a consider able saving to the U.S. & I am inclined to believe; the Members will more punctually attend in the succeeding Novr. & set down with greater alacrity & diligence to Business. Having been Engaged these several days past, in preparing Instruc tions to our Ministers abroad, for negotiating Treatys of Amity & Com merce, with the several powers, who may be disposed to Treat with us; a question has Arisen; how many & who are necessary & proper to be commissioned for this purpose While some are of opinion that one, or more of the three already in Europe, ought to be recalled; others urge strenuously to add a Fourth thereto: I have as yet grounded no decission on this subject in my Mind; but would wish, that at the same time, we study public CEconomy; we should also carefully guard the public good. I am to request your Excellys Sentiments on this Head; but more particularly what Information you have, of Mr. Jays state of Health, or his wishes to return to America. While Dr. Franklins recall was under debate, it was suggested in the House; that a like indul gence might be plead in favr. of Mr. Jay, whose state of Health & wishes to retire, were equally Cogent with those of the Dr.; both of whose Letters in 83, express this desire in very strong terms. I have however so good an opinion of Mr. Jays Heart & Head (& withall youth being on his side) that if it is not wholly incompatible with his Health, domestic Concerns, or his wishes; I cannot assent to his being recalled. No doubt he has written to Your Excellcy on these points & if not improper, may I beg to be confidentially informed. I have laid Mr. Deare & Mr. Oldens Acct, before Congress, who have been pleased to make the necessary order for its payment. 4 I have nothing new or in teresting to Inform you of. I take it for granted you have a detail of our proceedings: as the Secretary has orders to forward to the Execu tives of all the States the printed Journals of Congress, as fast as they can be prepared. Mr. Dick Joins me in respectfull Comps, to Your Ex- celly. & Family & I must beg you will present mine to Mr. Bell & family & to the Squire, whose wants I find are still Unsatisfied.
