494 April 6, 1784 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:83-84. 1 See Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Series, 1:240. 2 Not identified. 3 Count Gijsbert Karel van Hogendorp (1762-1834) traveled in America from Boston to Mount Vernon between November 1783 and June 1784 leaving vivid impressions of his journey, records of conversations, and characterizations of men that he met in America including Jefferson, Washington, Charles Thomson, Benjamin Lincoln, baron von Steuben, and Robert and Gouverneur Morris. Most of his recorded conversations are among the Hogendorp Papers, Rijksarchief, The Hague, and many were extracted and published by his descendants in Brieven en Gedenkschriften van Gijsbert Karel van Hogendorp, uilgegeven door zijn jongsten, thans eenigen Zoon, 7 vols. (The Hague: M. Nijhoff, 1866-1903). While in Annapolis Hogendorp met and befriended Jefferson whose observations about Congress the young nobleman reproduced as follows (in retranslation): “The members of Congress are no longer, generally speaking, men of worth or of distinction. For Congress is not, as formerly, held in respect; there is, indeed, dread of its power. Moreover the government of the States and the foreign missions absorb the men of first rank in the Union. It is difficult to form a majority. Congress only gets the minimum number of delegates necessary to vote and not the full number elected—that is, two in stead of five. The ratification of the treaty of peace was drawn up much too late, be cause there were not nine states whose delegates were present. I am not surprised to see Congress discouraged and in a bad mood, all of which is harmful to the affairs of the nation. The continuous change in members added to the other matters which I have pointed out, makes its management uneven. What is most discouraging is that its mem bers, being less men who have the confidence of the nation than men who are willing to accept the mandate, are composed of rich and frivolous young men; old men from the country who ignore what goes on in the world; officers, who, having no longer mili tary status enter into this national assembly out of vanity, perhaps; lawyers who appear only when the State who elects them needs their help in a particular discussion; and, in short, of few men who, gifted with high principles and the necessary attainments, have enough patriotism to sacrifice their private purposes to the public interest." And in a March 26 letter to his mother, Hogendorp quoted Jefferson directly. “Mr. Jefferson was speaking to me of a recess of Congress for the summer and of a plan not to convene again except for three months out of the year because of the leisure that peace will bring them. ‘Then,’ he said, ‘intelligent men from each state will be pleased to enter Congress for a short period, whereas now it is a sacrifice. After three years they will leave but others, like them, will replace them to be replaced in their turn. We will never again have in such a Congress obscure men who do its business badly.’” See Brieven, 1:342, 344; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:52n. See also Jefferson to Hogendorp, May 4, 1784. For a sketch of Hogendorp’s life and travels, see Howard C. Rice’s introduction to Hogendorp’s The College at Princeton, May 1784 (Princeton, NJ.: Princeton University Li brary, 1949), pp. iii-xii. Arthur Lee to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir Annapolis April 6th 1784 I have the pleasure of informing you that the resolutions for allow ing your Expences as stated, & the loss of Money by Major Peirce passd this day unanimously. 1 I hope you will attend the Indian Treaty, which I think will be of infinite importance to our Country. 2 Genl. Clarke is gone to the western Country & I much doubt whether he
