496 April 7, 1784 The Chevalier de la Luzerne is here. I askd him whether he in tended visiting you. He says it will be impracticable. He leaves America for Europe in August. I beleive M. de M 1 has not treated him fairly, & that he has been undermind. We have appointed the Generals Clarke, Wolcot, Greene & Butler & Mr. Higgenson Commissioners to treat with the Indians. The Treaty to be held as soon as possible. Genl. Schyler will be added to-day. 2 A plan is preparing to put the department of finance into Commis sion & regulate its powers. 3 The Superintendent professes his intention of resigning in May. But I observe his partizans are much against the Report. Therefore either he is insincere or they servile. Perhaps both. We talk of adjourning in May & leaving a Committee of the States. It will I think be wrong; but some Members are so afraid of a southern Climate in the Summer, that they take it for granted they shall die un less they adjourn. My love to Mrs. Bland. Compts. to Mr. Tucker. Adieu RC (NN: Myers Collection). 1 That is, the marquis de Barbe-Marbois. 2 For Philip Schuyler’s election this day, see JCC, 26:207-8. 3 See Committee of Congress to Robert Morris, March 30, note 1. Charles Thomson to John Ettwein Sir, Annapolis 7 April 1784 I received by last post your letter of the 4 of March, and have to in form you that agreeably to my promise I laid your Memorial before Congress on the first of November last. It was then read and referred to a Committee, who reported thereon the 31 of March. 1 I presume the unsettled state of Congress and the want of a full representation rendered it in their opinion unnecessary to report sooner. The report is favourable. It has been read and now lies before Congress for their determination but at what time they will take it up I cannot say. It might not be amiss to write to some of the delegates of Pensylvania or of any other state you may be acquainted with and engage them to bring it forward. 2 You may rest assured I shall as far as in my power favour the cause of those unhappy people and most heartily wish your laudable endeavours to promote their spiritual and temporal Welfare may be crowned with success. I am, Sir, Your obedt humble Servt. Cha Thomson RC (PBMCA: Ettwein Papers). 1 For the committee report on Ettwein’s October 31, 1783, memorial to Congress on the plight of the Moravian Indians in the aftermath of the Gnadenhutten massacre of March 1782, see Committee of Congress Draft Resolve, March 31, 1784. Ettwein’s
