502 April 9, 1784 Committee of Congress to Timothy Pickering Sir. Annapolis 9th April 1784 By Desire of a Grand Committee of Congress, I inclose You a Copy of a Letter from the Governor to the Delegates of Massachusetts, & re quest You to give all the Information in your Power respecting the Na ture & Circumstances of the Contract mentioned in the Letter, & rela tive to the Subject thereof in General. 1 I am Sir, with very great respect, Your most obedt & most humble servt. FC (DNA: PCC, item 137, appendix). In the hand of Elbridge Gerry. 1 For the enclosed letter from John Hancock and “the Subject thereof,” see the pre ceding entry, note. For Pickering’s response to the committee, which was chaired by ThomasJefferson, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:125-29. Thomasjefferson to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis Apr. 9. 1784. No authentic intelligence from Europe. Public papers as late as the 27th. of January state Mr. Pitt & his associates as still in office, but hav ing a decided majority against them in the House of commons. The king seems well affected to them, & the city of London also. He prob ably would dissolve the commons in hopes of getting a new house under the influence of his ministry; but the commons have not made the annual grant of supplies as yet, & thus perplex the purposes of the king. Some captains of vessels who have come to this place & Philadel phia say they had the bounties & drawbacks paid them on clearing out from London without knowing by what authority; for no such order was public. A letter from Mr. Bingham, now in London, of late date is of a different complexion. He states the purpose of Gr. Britain to be that of adhering to the policy of the king’s proclamation. He sais too that Spain has laid such duties as amount to a prohibition on all arti cles which we can send them & which they can get from any other quarter: that Portugal has absolutely prohibited our flour. If these be facts I suppose we shall have further information of them. We are now II states present, 8 of whom are represented by 2 dele gates only. We are laying our shoulders to three objects 1. Foreign treaties of amity & commerce. 2. the annual account & requisitions. 3. Western territory. I am not satisfied that Congress can give a decided vote on either of these propositions. The 1st was damped the other day by an important part of the subject being lost for want of an indi vidual vote only. It will be tried again. 1 The 2d is much canvassed. The report of the grand committee on that subject explains itself. 2 But every part of it requires nine votes. A question is made whether we
