506 April 9, 1784 power to collect the Impost recommended by the resolution of the 18th of April last. There is no remarkable news here. We have had a very severe Win ter. The snow has been gone but a few days. I shall be glad to hear from you, Letters may be Sent without any expence of Postage. Please to present my compliments to Sister Gibbs. I am with due regards Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (CtY: Gibbs Family Collection). Addressed: “Mr. Henry Gibbs, Merchant at Salem, Massachusetts.” 1 This letter to Elizabeth Sherman, explaining that Gibbs would supply her money and lamenting that “at present there is no prospect of adjourning [Congress] till near the last of May,” is in the Roger Sherman Papers, CtY. Hugh Williamson to John Gray Blount Dear sir Annapolis 9th April 1784 Your favour of 20th March came to hand by this days Post. I wrote you by the last that Mr Smith does not propose paying the Note, 1 giving for Reason that Mr Blount has accepted an Order on Banks or Hunter Banks & Co for Tobacco to the Arnot, which order is not returned & that Banks has charged him with the Tobacco. I reed, nothing less than I expected on that Note, hence I was not disappointed. I think I have Cash Enough to serve me till the Time when I expect to return to the State and therefore would not wish that you should put yourself to the smallest Inconvenience in making Remittances. At any rate if I should have occasion for more mony and should give you Notice of the same, I hope you will not by any means send me any public Bills, or Bills on our Treasury. While in Public Office I do not wish to touch one of them lest, if mony is scarce in the Treasury, which is generally the Case, some Body should complain, if I was paid, that partiality was used. If I should chance to need any Mony I can borrow it in Philada & the Remittances can be made thither to repay it with sufficient Ease. The Time of my present Delegation expires within 5 Weeks or thereabouts viz on the 13th of May. If the State should honor me with another appointmt, It is not probable that I shall continue longer than to the End of May at which Time I expect that Congress will adjourn. If you have vested any of my Cash or rather Paper in Rum to pre vent depredation I hope you will not leave the Accot. open to be at my Choice which I shall Take the Rum or the Mony. If you can afford to pay Mony to be paid at any Time in Philad. I certainly would prefer it. Therefore you may take the Rum or other Articles to your own Accot, on the Condition that you are not in danger of loosing by it. You will be pleased to make the Entry in your Books accordingly. Since my last
