April 10,1784 509 A standing Committee of qualifications is appointed, and the Dele gates of Delaware have agreeably to a report of that Committee been deemed disqualified to hold their seats. 4 They were appointed, twelve months last February, for the ensuing year. If Congress should not adjourn by the first Wednesday in May, our qualifications to sit beyond that time may be called in question, and perhaps our seats may be vacated; 5 altho’ there is an act of the State which I conceive would justify our sitting until we shall be relieved. All the States, excepting Delaware & Georgia, are now represented in Congress, and it is expected that delegates from the first will soon be in Congress. I hope we shall be able to finish or put the most im portant business in train so that Congress may adjourn by the middle of May to the first Monday in November. The minister of France a few days ago laid before Congress the ex tract of a letter written 24th Deer. 1783 to the Chevalier la Luzerne by the Count de Vergennes, of which the following is I believe a just translation. 6 His Majesty hath decided in a manner irrevocable that the Port of L’Orient shall be free and that American navigators may actually con sider it as such. The Edict of the King hath not however, been pub lished; because the intention of his Majesty being to give to this estab lishment all possible extension, the regulations must after a mature examination be framed in such a manner that the advantages granted to the merchants of the United States may not essentially prejudice our commerce and the revenues of the State. The merchants of the United States may equally enjoy the liberty to frequent the ports of Marseilles and of Dunkirk, and they shall partake like other nations of the franchises and privileges of these two places. It is probable that France will give some indulgencies to our trade to their W. India islands. I am confident She will grant to our trade every privilege that is not incompatible with her views of naval aggran dizement. The report on foreign arrangements proposes commercial treaties with every power that is concerned with commerce. 7 If this re port succeeds, Britain thereby and in consequence of measures which may be adopted by France, I imagin will be brot to see the error of her ways, and take up a more liberal line of commercial conduct. However this may be: By multiplying the avenues of trade, we shall al ways have some to report to if several of them should be obstructed. Please to present my compliments to Mrs. Bowen and all friends. I am with great consideration, Your most hble servant, William Ellery RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 The following letter to West relating to this matter, dated only “Api. 1784,” is repro duced from the RC in the possession of Mr. Herbert Klingelhofer of Bethesda, Md.
