514 April 12, 1784 taining information that his most Christian Majesty had finally established Port L’orient a free port; & resolved to admit the Americans to the freedom of Dunkirk & Marseilles in common with other nations. 1 The paper No. 1 contains copy of the act of N. Jersey adopting the 5 pr Cent Impost. 2 You will observe that ’till the measure shall be adopted by all the States they have declared all their ports—free. The paper No. 2 contains copy of a report of a Committee of Congress on the Subject of an Ordinance for collecting the Impost recommended on the 3d of Feby. 1781.3 The States are now generally astonished that they should ever have been led into such an error as to give Congress the vast & uncontroulable powers contained in this ordinance. Virginia, South Carolina & North-Carolina repealed their hasty grants, as did the lower house of Massachusetts—Georgia & Rhode Island never granted the request of Congress. I have transmitted you the acts of seven States adopting the Impost recommended on the 18th day of April 1783. Should some more com ply & bring the measure near to a crisis I expect that some States will repeal these acts as they did the former. Virginia, I am told is divided nearly into two equal parties on this measure; so that when one party gets the upper hand an Impost is granted, & when the other suceeds the grant is revoked; which will prevail in their next House is uncer tain. State Imposts from 2 to 2J4 pr Cent have generally taken place; & unless the meeting of the Cincinnati in Philadelphia next month strikes out some extraordinary political manoeuvres, I expect that the last impost will share the fate of the first. The paper No. 3 contains copy of the report of a Committee of Congress on a military establishment in time of peace. 4 On this I need make no comment—unless it be to remark that as the Ordinance No. 2 shews you in what manner the Impost was to have been collected— so the military peace establishment No. 3 shews you to what use the money raised was to have been applied. I chose to put these two to gether, because it has long been observed that Imposts & excises in the hands of the Sovereign power & standing armies have grown up together & yielded mutual support to each other. I have enclosed also in paper No. 4 copy of some notes on the estab lishment of a money mint & coinage for the U. States. 5 These notes were occasioned by a long Letter on the Subject from the Superinten dant of Finance to Congress—copy of which I sent to Mr. John Brown when at Congress before; to which I beg leave to refer. 6 Nothing can be brought to a close on this business before the recess proposed. By the printed paper No. 5 you will see that Pennsylvania has opened her land-office & receives of her citizens in payment—certifi cates of depreciation, Loan-office certificates, certificates for pay & commutation, Commissaries, quartermasters & Forage masters certifi cates &c, &c.7 This must not only give relief to her citizens who are
