516 April 13, 1784 been but fourteen days coming from your remote Northern clime [Kingston] which is ab 1 340 miles distant from this place. I have read them over and over, and kissed every one of them in stead of the dear lips that have drop’t the affectionate language con tained in them. As I have not a single doubt remaining with me of your exertions as a young man of business, I shall not say anything on that subject, leav ing it entirely to you and your uncle with the advice of my other chil dren to do as you please; and therefore this letter will be only calcu lated to give you a little information which may gratify your curiosity. Sometimes I write a long letter to one, sometimes to another of my children for I consider the letters I write as addressed to all, and tho I love you I would not have you flatter yourself that I love you best, be cause this may be the longest letter that goes from me at this time. I sent a packet of letters from Philadelphia when on my way to this place, which I trust you have by this time received. 1 I wrote a history to my dear Anna, 2 which I suppose will afford you some amusement. I am now going to give you an account of this place: Annapolis is a small city beautifully situated on the great Chese- peake Bay which affords a most grand prospect and is a striking evi dence of the greatness of its Maker, there are many ordinary buildings and some very elegent ones; The State House in which Congress sits is the most superb, it is thought, in any of the United States. A place of little business and it is thought will never much increase. Baltimore is the flourishing town and very handsomely situated, Cousin Thomas DeWitt now keeps a Coffee House there, he and his little fat wife both look exceeding well, they treated me with great kindness and were extremely glad to see me. I am now going on another subject: When I was in New York one day, being invited by Col. Lean to dine I was there introduced to a Mr. VanHogendorp, a young gentleman from Holland, but old in understanding, he is about your age. I saw no more of him ’till I came to Philadelphia where he visited me more than once at my lodgings, and we dined together at the Dutch Minis ter’s who is related to him. He seems to be attached to me and I confess I love the youth to a very great degree; as well as my beloved Dutch Minister who treated me with more politeness than I could ever expect from such an ex alted character. Mr. Hogandorp and I came in the same stage from Philadelphia to this place, and in our travels he never seemed to be better satisfied than in my company, by which I at last considered him almost as a child of my own. He has now gone to visit Genl Washington who lives about 50 miles from this place, when he returns his intention is to take a tour up the North River.
