522 April 16, 1784 the spirit of them all, that the foundation, on which all these are built, is the natural equality of man, the denial of every preeminence but that annexed to legal office, and particularly the denial of a preemi nence by birth;—that however, in their present dispositions, citizens might decline accepting honorary instalments into the order, a time may come when a change of dispositions would render these flatter ing; when a well directed distribution of them might draw into the order all the men of talents, of office and wealth; and in this case would probably procure an ingraftment into the government; that in this they will be supported by their foreign members, and the wishes and influence of foreign courts; that experience has shewn that the hereditary branches of modern governments are the patrons of privi lege and prerogative, and not of the natural rights of the people, whose oppressors they generally are; that besides these evils which are remote, others may take place more immediately; that a distinction is kept up between the civil and military which it is for the happiness of both to obliterate; that when the members assemble they will be proposing to do something, and what that something may be will de pend on actual circumstances; that being an organized body, under habits of subordination, the first obstructions to enterprize will be al ready surmounted; that the moderation and virtue of a single charac ter has probably prevented this revolution from being closed as most others have been by a subversion of that liberty it was intended to es tablish; that he is not immortal, and his successor or some one of his successors at the head of this institution may adopt a more mistaken road to glory. What are the sentiments of Congress on this subject, and what line they will pursue can only be stated conjecturally. Congress as a body, if left to themselves, will in my opinion say nothing on the subject. They may however be forced into a declaration by instructions from some of the states or by other incidents. Their sentiments, if forced from them, will be unfriendly to the institution. If permitted to pursue their own tract, they will check it by side blows whenever it comes in their way, and in competitions for office on equal or nearly equal ground will give silent preferences to those who are not of the fraternity. My reasons for thinking this are: 1. The grounds on which they lately de clined the foreign order proposed to be conferred on some of our cit izens. 2 2. The fourth of the fundamental articles of constitution for the new states. I inclose you the report. 3 It has been considered by Congress, recommitted and reformed by a Committee according to the sentiments expressed on other parts of it, but the principle re ferred to having not been controverted at all, stands in this as in the original report. It is not yet confirmed by Congress. 3. Private conver sations on this subject with the members. Since the receipt of your let ter I have taken occasion to extend these; not indeed to the military
