April 16, 1784 523 members, because being of the order delicacy forbade it; but to the others pretty generally; and among these I have found but one who is not opposed to the institution, and that with an anguish of mind, tho’ covered under a guarded silence, which I have not seen produced by any circumstance before. I arrived at Philadelphia before the separa tion of the last Congress, and saw there and at Princeton some of it’s members not now in delegation. Burke’s peice happened to come out at that time which occasioned this institution to be the subject of con versation. 4 I found the same impression made on them which their successors have received. I hear from other quarters that it is disagree able generally to such citizens as have attended to it, and therefore will probably be so to all when any circumstance shall present it to the notice of all. This Sir is as faithful an account of sentiments and facts as I am able to give you. You know the extent of the circle within which my obser vations are at present circumscribed; and can estimate how far, as forming a part of the general opinion, it may merit notice, or ought to influence your particular conduct. It remains now to pay obedience to that part of your letter which requests sentiments on the most eligi ble measures to be pursued by the society at their next meeting. I must be far from pretending to be a judge of what would in fact be the most eligible measures for the society. I can only give you the opinions of those with whom I have conversed, and who, as I have before ob served, are unfriendly to it. They lead to these conclusions. 1. If the society proceeds according to it’s institution, it will be better to make no applications to Congress on that subject, or on any other in their associated character. 2. If they should propose to modify it so as to render it unobjectionable, I think this would not be effected without such a modification as would amount almost to annihilation; for such would it be to part with it’s inheritability, it’s organisation and it’s as semblies. 3. If they should be disposed to discontinue the whole it would remain with them to determine whether they would chuse it to be done by their own act only, or by a reference of the matter to Congress, which would infallibly produce a recommendation of total discontinuance. 5 You will be sensible, Sir, that these communications are without all reserve. I supposed such to be your wish, and mean them but as mate rials, with such others as you may collect, for your better judgment to work on. I consider the whole matter as between ourselves alone, hav ing determined to take no active part in this or any thing else which may lead to altercation, or disturb that quiet and tranquillity of mind to which I consign the remaining portion of my life. I have been thrown back by events on a stage where I had never more thought to appear. It is but for a time however, and as a day labourer, free to with draw or be withdrawn at will. While I remain I shall pursue in silence
