April 19, 1784 529 of my late situation as an officer in the Line of their Army I hope I shall not be charged with an improper Interference with the impor tant business which is now before them. I have delayed this Application to the present time in expectation that the principal Reports on the Files would have been acted upon before any matters relative to Individuals, but as that has not been the case & as an Adjournment will probably take place in a Short time I am obliged in order to have my Accounts Setled; to state to Congress some claims which I believe are founded in Justice but which cannot be Allowed by the Pay-Master General 1 without their special direction. In the Years 1777-78 & 79 I was honored with separate Commands on the Frontiers of Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York as will appear by a resolution of Congress of the 10th April 1777 2 and the Inclosed letters No. 1, 2, 3, & 4. 3 These commands obliged me to incur very heavy Additional expences. By a review of my situation as late Adj’t General, and of the Staff Ap pointments of the late Army, it will appear that I am the only Officer taken from the Line who has not had a compensation for Extra-Duty. My duties as Adjt. General were laborious and required such con stant Attention that I seldom had in the Field or in Quarters one hour for amusement or relaxation—that appointment encreased my Mili tary Family three fold & my Expences were in proportion without the smallest additional revenue. His appointment as Adj’t. General gave General Gates the Rank & (Emoluments of a Brigadr., to Colonel Reed & Colonel Pickering the rank of Colonel with the (Emoluments of Brigadr. In addition to these advantages they were Annexed to the Family of the Commr. in Chief & of course had a great part of their expences defrayed by the public. Colonel Schammell to Whom I succeeded in the office of Adj’t. Genl, was entitled to the pay & (Emoluments of a Brigadr. Genl, when I was appointed adjutant general (which Appointment I was Solicited to Accept) I made no stipulation for an immediate Additional Al lowance but trusted to the success of our Cause and to the Justice of Congress for the same pay & (Emoluments which they in like cases should extend to Others. I therefore submit my Case to Congress with a firm reliance that they will be pleased to order the Pay-Master Genl, to give me credit for the pay & (Emoluments of a General Officer Commanding in a Separate Department, during my Command on the Frontiers of Vir ginia, Pennsylvania & New York; and such an Allowance for my extra Services as Adjt. Genl, as to them shall appear just & reasonable. With much respect, I have the Honor to be, Your Excellys. most Obedt. & most humble Servt. Edwd. Hand
