534 April 21, 1784 Business will never be interrupted by the Citizens of Annapolis, for the Idea of Business to them is neither agreable nor reputable. But this is not a place capable of administring much to my pleasure, or of promoting my Happiness. Our Commissioners are ordered to attend to the Subject of Com plaint which You mention respecting the prize Money of our Seamen, but I confess I have no great Expectation of much advantage to the poor Men from this Measure. We are in some Expectation of rising the latter end of May; & of leaving a Comee of the States; much Busi ness has been done since the proposition was made. We have a report of a grand Comee for putting the Treasury in Commission, & a great Variety of important Business prepared for the Consideration of Congress. The portraits of the King & Queen of France are arrived at Philadelphia, & the Chevalier has Leave to return Home in the Fall. Mr Carmichael has had An Audience or rather been presented to the King of Spain, & says a Convention was signed in July last between that Court, France & Portugal. Having many Letters to answer by this post, I can only add my Complimts as usual, & an assurance that I am always D’r Sir yours sincerely E Gerry RC (NNPM: Signers of the Declaration Collection). 1 See Gerry to Holten, December 20, 1783, note 2. 2 See Samuel Osgood to Gerry, April 3, note 2. Thomas Mifflin to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, Annapolis April 21st 1784 I have the honor to inform your Excellency that Congress have a due Sense of the care you have taken for preserving the Portraits of his Most Christian Majesty and his Royal Consort, and that they are desirous they may continue in your possession, untill proper places can be provided for them. 1 In answer to your Excellency’s letter of the 9th Inst. I am instructed to assure you 2 that “as all the Legislatures have not yet passed on the rec ommendations of Congress of the 18th of April 1783 for establishing permanent funds, supplementary requisitions on the States will be adopted to provide for the interest of the loans aforesaid for the present year, and that the greatest care will be taken by subsequent measures for the punctual payment of the principle and interest as they may respec tively become due according to the times of the several contracts.” I have the honor to be with every sentiment of respect and esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient and humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin
