April 23, 1784 537 the General Assembly & to assure them of my attention to their inter ests & best wishes for the welfare of the State. With perfect consideration, I am, Sir, Your most obedient & very hble Servt, David Howell P.S. Before this will reach you I presume you will have duly honored my late draft for 300 dollars 1 —of which I stand in great need to enable me to discharge my debts & defray my expences on my return home. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 The following draft on Bowen is dated “Annapolis April 3d, 1784”: “Please to pay to Messieurs Hewes & Anthony, Merchants of Philadelphia, or to their order, the sum of three hundred Dollars & charge the same to account of your hble Servt. David Howell.” Paul H. Smith Collection, Silver Spring, Md. James McHenry to Margaret McHenry Friday morning 23 April [1784], Responds to her letters of April 18 and 19 and explains that “I had planned to have left this [place] to day and felt lighter by many pounds in consequence of it—as Mr. Chase and Mr. Stone were both in town. But I am prevented most ef fectually by one of the delegation being taken suddenly ill, nor can I have the smallest expectation, from the nature of his complaint, of getting away till some time in the next week. 1 It may perhaps be the last of it; and the last of the week following (it will be necessary to stop a few days in Baltimore), I shall hope to be blessed with your presence in Philadelphia—On this plan then, the last day of April I shall leave this place and the last of the first week in May be with my beloved. 2 In the mean while, you will continue to address your letters to Annapolis; because if I am not here, I shall take them out at Balti more. Farewell my beloved, I shall write you on this subject by the next Tuesday’s post.” 3 MS not found; reprinted from Steiner, James McHenry, p. 83. 1 Actually McHenry himself had “taken suddenly ill,” and he chose to explain his delay and to spare his v/ife concern for his health by using this third person reference. He did not attend Congress Thursday through Saturday, April 22-24, but on Monday, the 26th, informed Peggy that he would take his seat that day. “For some days past I have been troubled with a slight inflammation in the throat, but you will conclude by my going to Congress... that it is not very troublesome.” See ibid., p. 84; and JCC, 26:256-60, 264-65, 275, 279, 282, 291-96. 2 McHenry did indeed leave Annapolis the morning of April 30, for which see his let ter of that date to his wife in Steiner, James McHenry, p. 85. He returned to Congress briefly at the end of May. For his accounts claiming 42 days service “from the 27 March inclusive to the 30th April” and "from 29 May to 4th June,” see James McHenry Ac count, MdAA.
