538 April 23, 1784 3 McHenry continued “this subject” in a poetical vein in a letter of April 25: “Who would not quit the cares of state, The subtle crew, the vain debate: Who would not leave a wrangling life, For such a woman—such a wife!” Ibid., pp. 83-84. And in an undated letter written “Monday—4 O’clock,” which could only have been April 26, McHenry ad vised Peggy that “We are this moment got out of Congress, after passing a resolve to ad journ Congress to Trenton the 3d of June,” an act in which he was a prime mover. See JCC, 26:288-96; and the McHenry Papers, MdHi. For his letters to Peggy of April 28 and 29, see Steiner, James McHenry, p. 85. Committee of Congress to Henry Gassaway [April 24, 1784] i In Pursuance of An Order of the United States in Congress assem bled, dated this Twenty fourth day of April Instant— You are hereby required and Commanded Forthwith to arrest the Body of Henry Carbery, late a Captain in the Pensylvania Line of the Continental Army, Who from a variety of facts and Circumstances ap pearing on the Oaths of Divers Witnesses Sworn in the Proceedings of the Courts Martial held for the trial of all such persons in a Military line as were concerned in the Dangerous Mutiny of part of the Pensyl vania Line of the Continental Troops on the twenty first Day of June last past as from his Letters written after his flight Manifesdy appears to have been a principal in the said Mutiny and the Violence and In sult on the Congress of the United States at the time of such Mutiny Assembled in the State house at the City of Philadelphia, And you are hereby commanded to produce the Body of the said Henry Carbery together with this Order before some Judge of the General Court of the State of Maryland, in the City of Annapolis For Further Examina tion, and to be dealt with according to Law, and for which this shall be your sufficient Warrant. Given under the Hands and Seals of the Committee of the United States in Congress Assembled this Twenty fourth day of April 1784 Jacob Read Seal John Montgomery Seal T. Stone Seal Tr (MdHi: American Revolution Vertical File). 1 The warrant for the arrest of Capt. Henry Carbery issued this day by a congressional committee chaired by Jacob Read had its origin in Read’s long-standing desire to see Carbery and Lt. John Sullivan brought to justice for their role in the Philadelphia mutiny of June 1783, for which see James McHenry’s Speech in Congress, September 13, 1783, note 1. Hearing rumors that Sullivan had returned from London aboard a ship then in the harbor at Annapolis, Read had moved in Congress on March 16 that Gov. William Paca arrest and hold him in custody until Congress could take further order. The motion was referred to a committee consisting of Read, Arthur Lee, and
