April 25, 1784 545 Thomas Jefferson to James Madison Dear Sir Annapolis Apr. 25. 1784. My last to you was of the 16th of March, as was the latest I have re ceived from you. By the proposition to bound our country to the Westward I meant no more than the passing an act declaring that that should be our boundary from the moment the people of the Western country & Congress should agree to it. The act of Congress now in closed to you 1 will shew you that they have agreed to it, because it ex tends not only to the territory ceded, but to be ceded, and shews how and when they shall be taken into the union. There is no body then to consult but the people to be severed. If you will make your act final as to yourselves so soon as those people shall have declared their assent in a certain manner to be pointed out by the act, the whole business is settled, for their assent will follow immediately. One of the conditions is that they pay their quota of the debts contracted. Of course no di- fliculty need arise on this head: as no quota has been fixed on us unal terably. The minuter circumstances of selling the ungranted lands will be provided in an ordinance already prepared but not reported. 2 You will observe two clauses struck out of the report, the 1st respecting hereditary honours, the 2d slavery. The 1st was done not from an ap probation of such honours, but because it was thought an improper place to encounter them. The 2d was lost by an individual vote only. Ten states were present. The 4 Eastern states, N. York, Pennsva. were for the clause. Jersey would have been for it, but there were but two mem bers, one of whom was sick in his chambers. South Carolina, Maryland & [Virginia! voted against it. N. Carolina was divided as would have been Virginia had not one of it’s delegates been sick in bed. 3 The place at which Congress should meet in Nov. has been the sub ject of discussion lately. Alexandria, Philada. & Trenton were pro posed. The first was negatived easily. Trenton had the 4 East, states, N.Y, NJ., and Pennsylva. We expect Georgia & Delaware shortly, in which case it will become possible that Philada. may be determined on. The questicn is put off to be considered with the establishment of a committee of the states, which to my astonishment would have been negatived when first proposed had not the question been staved off. Some of the states who were against the measure, 1 beleive because they had never reflected on the consequences of leaving a govern ment without a head, seem to be come over. 4 Dr. Lee is appointed an Indian Commr. He is not present, but is known to have sought it, & of course will accept. This vacates his seat here. I wish Short could be sent in his room. It is a good school for our young statesmen. It gives them impressions friendly to the federal government instead of those adverse which too often take place in persons confined to the politics of their state.
