552 April 26, 1784 the other Commissioners on the Times & Places for holding the Treaties. 1 The Commission authorizing you to act on this Business will be transmitted to New York under Cover to Mr Oliver Woolcot. I have the Honor to be with great Respect & Esteem, Sir Your Obed humble Serv Thomas Mifflin RC (MH—H: bMS Aml649.4). LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “Major General Lin coln.” Endorsed: “A similar letter was written to the Honble. Arthur Lee Esqr." 1 For the April 24 election of Lee and Lincoln as commissioners “in the room of Mr. Sftephen] Higginson and Mr. N[athanael] Greene, who have declined that office," see JCC, 26:282. See also Mifflin to the Indian Commissioners, March 6 and 22, 1784. Thomas Mifflin to the Chevalier de Ternant Sir, Annapolis April 26th 1784. It is with great satisfaction that I transmit to you an Act of Congress of the 22d Instant, by which you are promoted to the Rank of Colonel in the Legionary Corps lately commanded by General Armand; your Commission to bear date from the Promotion of General Armand. 1 The report of the Committee accompanying the Act abovemen tioned is highly honorable to you, and it may not be improper to add that Congress were unanimous in giving you the rank you have so well merited. I have the honor to be with much Respect, Sir, Your Obedient Ser vant Thomas Mifflin. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See JCC, 26:262-63. John Montgomery to Benjamin Rush [ante April 26, 1784] 1... Your letter of the 15th 2 made me very happy. Nothing Can give greater Satisfaction when our Conduct mets with Aprobation of good men and nothing can give more Secret Pleasure then a Coun- cisousness of that Conduct having been influenced by virtues and liberal motives. I must Confess that I was agreeably Dissapointed in the liberality of Sentiment of our Clergy and even in the Gene[ra]L In have since offen thought of it with pleasure and must ascrib much to the over ruling providenc of god who Can turn the hearts of men whichsoever way it will best promote his glory and the good of mankind and from many Circomstances and Considerations I am lead to belive that this
