April 27, 1784 553 instution is in a pecular mannor favoured by him and indeed this thought has relived me when our affair sometimes lookd. Dark. My heart rejoices when I reflect that you and I have in some measure been made the instruments of Carr[y]ing it so far into Effect. I agree with you that some of our professors 3 ought to [be] Chosen from among other religious Socities and make no Doubt but that such a Choise will be advantagous to us in many respects. Congress will adjoun the later end of May or begining of June to met the later end of Octbr at Trenton. 4 After the adjournment you will see me in Philada. I like Mr. Wilsons thought of Purchassing the Publick building with Certificates but I fear that nothing Can to be Done in it before the adjournment. I Sincrly wish that Mr Davidson woud Setle and take the Charge of our Congregation at Carlisle. If he did I am perswaded that it woud promote the intrest of our College. I Can say nothing to What you propose in regard to Mr. Linn but I woud wish Mr. Davidson first Setled and if Mr Linn or Mr McNight were brot. into the College the other perhaps woud take place. This is a new thought and therefore Can say but little about it. You forgot to Send Mr Bingham phamplet on Comerce. Will send it by the nixt post. Pleas to present my Complemt to Mrs. Rush. I am Dear Sir your assured frind and Humbl servt. John Montgomery RC (PPL: Rush Papers). 1 This fragment of a letter is a response to one of April 15 written by Rush from Philadelphia, and Montgomery obviously wrote it before Congress reached a decision on April 26 to adjourn from Annapolis on June 3, for which see notes 2 and 4 below. 2 See Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:319-21. 3 That is, of the newly founded Dickinson College, for which see ibid. 4 For the April 26 resolution “to adjourn Congress on the third day of June next, to meet on the thirtieth day of October next at Trenton,” see JCC, 26:295-96. Connecticut Delegates to William Williams Sir Annapolis 27th April 1784 Congress came to a resolution Yesterday, to Adjourn on the 3d day of June next, until the 30th day of October next, then to Meet at Trenton in the State of Newjersy. This day a report was agreed to for requisitions on the States for Supplies for paying the expences of the current year, and the Interest of the foreign debt to the close of this year, and of the domestic debt to the end of the year 1782 & part of the year 1783, to accomplish which, one half of the requisition of 8 Million dollars made the 30th of October 1781, including the pay ments already made thereon, will be Sufficient. 1 Congress have also Agreed upon regulations for laying off the Western territory into new
