560 April 29, 1784 If the general assembly shall have passed the Law for granting the 5 per Cent impost I hope you will cause it to be forwarded by the return of the express. South Carolina had perhaps six months ago passed an imperfect act for an impost but they have lately amended it to the full of what was required. We are given to understand that Rhode Island only stands out till she sees whether all the other States comply. I do not know what Geor gia has done, all the other States except Connecticut passed the act. It is resolved that Congress shall adjourn on the 3d of June till the end of October, leaving a Committee of the states. The ordinance for opening the Land office, one for regulating the Indian Trade, For Se curing the frontier posts & sundry other very difficult & perplexing Subjects are still on hand. I have the honor to be &ca. Hugh Williamson Tr (Nc—Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 That is, the resolution on the cession of western lands passed this day, for which see JCC, 26:315-17; and N.C. State Records, 17:62-63. 2 See Thomas Mifflin to the States, May 6, 1784. 3 This instruction is not in JCC. 4 For the report of the committee on commercial matters adopted by Congress on April 30, see JCC, 26:317-22. Hugh Williamson to John Pierce Sir Annapolis 29th April 1784 You do me Justice in believing that I am in the number of those who count you a diligent and faithful Officer and are very desirous of giving you effectual Proofs of their Regard. There are at present Eleven states represented in Congress, for this Reason on the 15th Inst I call’d for the Report on your appointment. The Entry made in our Journal is thus. 1 On the Report of a Committee consisting of Messrs &c, to whom was referd the memorial of J Pierce Pay master Genl. Resolved that in settling the Accounts of Mr John Pierce the pay master Genl he be allowed at the Rate of one hundred and fifty Dol lars per month besides the Rations that are drawn by a Lieut Colonel. The Committee further reported that Mr Pierce be allowed in Consid eration of his additional Services in settling the Accounts of the army at the Rate of One hundred Dlrs per month while employed in that service. On the Question to agree to this the Yeas & Nays being required by Mr. Read. (seven States against it)
