572 May 3, 1784 I beg my duty, love, & Compliments to all with you, Adieu Dr. Yeates, Yrs. Affectionably Edwd. Hand [PS.] I write to Kitty & J. Ewing by this Post. 2 RC (NN: Hand Papers). 1 Hand apparendy enclosed a broadside copy of “the Report of a Plan for a tempo rary Government of the Western Territory” adopted April 23, for which see JCC, 26:275-79. Hand’s annotated copy of this broadside is in PHi, and is reproduced in fac simile as an illustration in A Rising People: The Founding of the United States, 1765 to 1789 (Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1976), p. 261. The legislative history of the report has been analyzed in detail in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:607-13. Cf. the fol lowing entry, note 1. 2 Hand’s letter to ‘Jacky” Ewing has not been found, but his letter of this date to his wife “Kitty” is in the Hand Papers, PHi. “In my last,” Hand reported, “I told you that Congress had determined to Adjourn this day month, by the middle of June I hope to See you & my Dear Children & Friends,” a subject he also repeated in a letter to Kitty of the sixth which is in the same collection of Hand Papers. Thomas Jefferson to Francis Hopkinson Dear Sir Annapolis May. 3. 1784. Not being learned in the laws of Pennsylvania I am incertain what will be the event if a prosecution of Scandalum magnatum should be instituted against Claypole for publishing in his gazette of Apr. 27 as an act of Congress a paper which certainly was no act of theirs, 1 and which contained a principle or two not quite within the level of their politics. I mean a pretended act for dividing the Western country into states and fixing the principles on which their governments should be erected, two of which as this forgery pretends were an exclusion of hereditary honours, and an abolition of slavery. When the true act shall be published you will find no such pettyfogging ideas in it. In the scheme for disposing of the soil an happy opportunity offers of intro ducing into general use the geometrical mile, in such a manner as that it cannot possibly fail of forcing it’s way on the people. However this bearing some relation to astronomy and to science in general, which certainly have nothing to do with legislation, I doubt whether it can be carried through. Were it to prevail it would lay the foundation of a very dangerous proposition; that is, to subdivide this geometrical mile into 10 furlongs, each of these into 10 chains, each of these into 10 paces, differing very little from the British furlong, chain, and fathom, but I hope it will be foreseen that should we introduce so het erodox a facility as the decimal arithmetic, we should all of us soon forget how to cypher. I have hopes that the same care to preserve an athletic strength of calculation, will not permit us to lose the pound as a money unit, and it’s subdivisions into 20ths. 240ths. and 960ths. as
