May 3, 1784 575 Deliver’d Genl. Hand Sent War Office Sent Office of Finance Copy of Resolve of 4th Inst, confirming the Appoint, of T. B. Bowen & E. Beatty Agents for settling the Accts, of Officers & Soldiers belonging to Pensylvania Line. 8 Delivered Office of Finance Copy of Resolve of 3d. Inst, directing the Presit. to write to the Marquis de la Fayette—with do. of the Let ters following as entered upon the Journals. 9 7th. Deliver’d Genl Hand proceedings of Congress relative to Com merce passed April 30th. 1784. 10 Deliver’d Capt. Peter Perit resolve of 6th Inst, recommending to the State of Connecticut to make up to him & Lieut J. Hull the deprecia tion of pay See. 11 10th. Deliver’d Mr. Sherman Copy of proceedings of Congress rela tive to Commerce pass’d April 30th. 1784. Deliver’d Mr. Gerry Copy of Petition of Officers & Mariners of the Armed Schooner Franklin. 12 11th. Sent to the Office of Finance Copy of an Accot. of Comtee. of Congress of their expences in surveying the Seat for a federal Town near Trenton. 13 Sent to Ditto Copy of a Petition of a number of Officers, Marines & Mariners late belonging to the Frigate Alliance referred to the Supert. to report. 14 13th. Sent to Ditto Copy of resolve directing Agent of Marine to provide Accommodation for Mr. Jefferson’s passage to Europe. 15 Deliver’d Mr. Spaight Copy of Resolve 16 Deliver’d Col. Beatty Copy of Resolve of 3d Inst, relative to Accots. of the Revd. I. Evans. 17 Sent to the Office of Finance Copy of appointment of Col. Humphreys as Secretary to the Commission for negotiating Treaties of Commerce with foreign powers—12th May. 1784. 18 14th. Sent to Ditto Copy of a Resolve of 12th directing Supt. to take measures for recovering public property detained by Luther Stoddard & others &c. 19 Sent to the President to be transmitted Copy of a Resolve of the 12th Inst, directing Commandg Officer of the Troops now in service to open Correspondence with the British Commander in Chief—to deliver up Posts occupied by British Troops in Canada. 20 17th. Sent to the President Copy of Resolve of 3d Inst, instructions to Minister at the Court of Madrid relative to services of Frigate S. Carolina. 21 Sent to the President to be transmitted— Copy of a Letter to Ministers plenipo. at the Court of Ver sailles & Madrid explaining the reasons & principles on which the In-
