580 May3, 1784 RC (DNA: Record Group 93, M 859). 1 That is, Col. David Forman’s Additional Continental Regiment, for which see Heit man, Historical Register, p. 179; and Wright, The Continental Army, pp. 100, 321. 2 According to Secretary Thomson’s committee book, a letter of April 26 from Robert Morris enclosing “charges of Genl [Moses] Hazen agst. J Pierce—The Answer of J. Pierce & his charges agst. Hazen” were referred this day to a committee chaired by Williamson which reported May 7. See PCC, item 186, fol. 160. The committee, whose report was endorsed on July 21 by the Committee of the States, fully approved of the attention and fidelity of John Pierce, esq. commissioner for settling accounts with the line of the army, in refusing to admit any charges against the United States, which are not founded on particular resolves of Congress, and supported by vouchers or by other good and satisfactory evidence.” JCC, 27:594. See also Williamson to Pierce, May 13, note 2. s See JCC, 26:242-44. Thomas Jefferson to Count van Hogendorp Dear Sir Annapolis May 4. 1784. Having waited thus long in the vain hope of procuring a private and confidential conveyance for the papers you left in my care, 1 I am obliged at length to trust them to the post, lest a longer detention of them should prove inconvenient. I hope they will pass safely. The desire of establishing a correspondence, which I am sure will be useful to me, induces me to consider as an invitation to it on your part the letter you were so kind as to address to me. 2 The sentiments therein expressed are much too partial, and I am sure had your time permitted you to have ranged a little more thro’ these states, you would have found many others whom they would have better fitted. I am particularly sorry that the route you had marked out for yourself did not permit me to introduce to you some of my own country who would have justly merited your praises. Your observation on the situ ation of my mind is not without foundation: yet I had hoped it was unperceived, as the agreeable conversations into which you led me, often induced a temporary inattention to those events which have produced that gloom you remarked. I have been happy and cheer ful. I have had many causes of gratitude to heaven, but I have also experienced it’s rigours. I have known what it is to lose every species of connection which is dear to the human heart: friends, brethren, parents, children—retired, as I thought myself, to dedicate the residue of life to contemplation and domestic happiness, I have been again thrown by events on the world without an object on which I can place value. From those which are distant I am excluded by reason and reflection. The sun of life having with me already passed his meridian, with you he is ascending, and I sincerely partici pate of your rising prospects. Your thirst after knowlege, your capac ity to acquire it, your dispositions to apply it to the good of
