582 May 4, 1784 be the best way for raising a revenue for the Interest of the National Debt—tho, I never wish to have the power in Congress to raise money extended beyond what may be necessary for the present debt, but never to raise any for current expences. I am not able to furnish you with the journals of Congress for the last year the volume is not com- pleated. I understand by the Secretary that he has Sent to Governor Trumbull all that have been printed. General Wadsworth & I in our late joint Letter gave you an account of the principal Matters done & expected to be done by Congress this Session, 1 all the States except Delaware and Georgia are now represented. It is not likely that Congress will agree to any Answer to the Address on commutation—the members are divided as to the Stile and tone in which it should be answered, some were for transmiting a Copy of the answer given to Massachusetts, or make an answer Nearly like it. Oth ers thought it would be best only to State what had been done and leave it to the House to make the inferrences, as was done in the draught reported by the last Committee of which we transmitted a copy, that would have been agreed to, if the question had been put without the Yeas and Nays, as several members told me they would have voted for it, in that case who now voted in the negative. 2 I dont find any Member that thinks that the commutation can be rescinded, or avoided without a violation of public faith, a Majority approve of the Measure. I hope the western territory will sink a considerable part of the Na tional debt, it is proposed to apply it only to the principal. You will see the Plan for establishing New States, and the requisitions for payment of arrears of Interest and the current expences, and a recommenda tion to the States, lately passed for opposing the System adopted by great Britain respecting Commerce, in the printed journals that will be transmitted to the Governor. I Sent Some extracts to the Governor from the Letters of our Ministers in Europe for his information and to be communicated to the General Assembly. I hope none of them will be published in the News Papers. As Some things of that kind have been very improperly done in a Neighbouring State, Congress has lately laid an injunction to taking or publishing extracts from Such Letters without express permission. 3 The act of the General Assembly of our State respecting allowance for Coast Guards &c is now before a Grand Committee not reported on. 4 We have not laid the Act for making a Cession of western territory before Congress. They have renewed the requisition to the States for that purpose—and we Shall offer a Cession a few days hence. I hope Sir that you or one of the other delegates will come forward to attend the Committee of the States to be left in the recess of Congress. I am Sir with the most perfect respect and esteem Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman.
