May 5, 1784 583 RC (CtY: Sherman Papers). 1 See Connecticut Delegates to William Williams, April 27, 1784. 2 Although a roll call vote was taken on this report, Secretary Thomson failed to in clude a record of it in his journals. See JCC, 25:265-69. a See JCC, 26:331-32. 4 See Sherman’s Draft Resolve, April 8, 1784. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Reed My dear Sir Annapolis 5th May 1784 It gives me great Pleasure to learn by your Favour of the 4th of Feby, 1 which came to Hand a few Days since, that You had safely ar rived, as the Severity of the Winter here, made your Friends appre hend that your Passage to London would be dangerous. I am much obliged to you for forwarding my Letters to Mr Adams & Mr Jay, & have been fully impressed with their disagreable Situation. How it happened that the Instructions were sent without a Commis sion I know not 2 —this being a meer Form for carrying the others into Effect, should I think have been prepared by the Secretary, officially, & layed before Congress: & if he neglected it, the president most cer tainly, should have communicated the Matter to Congress before he forwarded the Instructions, 3 as he must have known that without the one, the others were useless. I suppose the Fact to be, that neither the one nor the other of these Gentlemen were favorable to two of our Ministers, to whom the Union are so much indebted for an honorable Peace. We have now before Congress a Report which takes up the Matter on very extensive principles, & not only authorizes the Minis ters to negotiate & sign the Treaties, but to extend their negotiations to all the powers which have made advances for this purpose. The Re port has been debated & the Question put, but miscarried by the Neg ative of a single Member, & is now delayed in Consequence of the De mand of an addition of two Ministers from the southern States to Messrs. Adams, Franklin & Jay. 4 Congress I think will consent to one, & this will be Mr. Jefferson; but some of the States insist on a previous acceptance of the Resignation of Doctor Franklins Commission, for the Reasons he has offered, his Advanced Years &c, but there are not seven States I think which will vote for this Measure. Perhaps six would agree to it. I trust that neither Mr Adams nor Mr Jay will think of returning untill this Matter is brot to an issue, which must be soon, nor untill the negotiations of the Treaties, in Consequence of the new Instruc tions, if adopted, shall be compleate. Pray communicate this & inform them, I have deferred writing in order to give them full Information on the Subject.
