584 May 5, 1784 Congress have resolved to adjourn the 3d of next month to meet at Trenton the 30th of October next, for the Dispatch of publick Busi ness & in the Interim to leave a Committee of the States for the Con duct of such Matters as shall be assigned to them. We have passed two Resolutions recommending to the States an addition to the Power of Congress respecting Commerce. 5 We have also passed the Requisition for this Year, a Copy of which I inclose: 6 & are taking Measures for making the back Lands a Sinking Fund. A Report was made on your Application for a Certificate, 7 & having brot on the Matter I found that it was considered by some Members as an Interference in a personal Dispute, & that the Question could not be carried, but would probably be negatived by the Yeas & Nays ; for which Reason, it is dropped. The particulars I may communicate at our next Interview. Pray give my best Respects to Mr Adams, & Mr Jay & be assured dear Sir I am yours sincerely. E. Gerry [PS.] Pray excuse this Scrawl for I have but a Moment to write. RC (NHi: Reed Papers). i Reed’s letter, dated “London Feb. 4. 1784,” is in the Gerry Collection, DLC. 2 Reed had explained that Adams and Jay had left London “a few Days ago under the Disappointment... of not receiving a Commission as well as Instructions for the com mercial Treaty.” 3 See Elias Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, November 1, 1783. 4 For the origin and progress of the debates on the negotiation of commercial treaties abroad, see James Monroe to Benjamin Harrison, March 26, note. 5 For these April 30 resolves, see JCC, 26:321-22. 6 JCC, 26:308-9. 7 For the report on the “Testimonial of the Approbation” of Congress that Reed had requested for use as a letter of introduction in his travels abroad, see Arthur Lee to Reed, April 5, note. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Si r> Annapolis 5th May 1784 We were honrd with yours of the 9th Ulmo. and had previously for warded to your Excellency, and to the Gentlemen imediately con cerned, the necessary information with Respect to the subject of it, since which, no oppertunity has occurred for obtaining a more ex plicit determination. We have the honr. to enclose a resolution pressing the payment of the one half a former requisition of eight Million Dollars, including the payments already made thereon. 1 The reasons for this call are so minutely stated in the Report itself, that we need say little on that sub ject. We shall therefore, only observe, that it seemed absolutely neces-
