588 May 6, 1784 Resolution, confirming the Appointment of Major Bowen and Cap tain Beatty to act as Agents for the late Pennsylvania Line. 2 With perfect Respect we have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s most Obedient and most humble Servants, Thomas Mifflin, John Montgomery Edward Hand. Tr (PHarH: RG27). i This letter is in Pa. Archives, 1 st ser. 11:504. 2 For this May 4 resolve, see JCC, 26:341. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams Annapolis 7th May, 1784. My dear Sir, I am this Day favoured with yours of the 19th of April & have deliv ered the Memorial to the Committee of the Week. 1 We have determined, as You are undoubtedly informed, to adjourn on the 3d of June, & as I propose to continue here untill that Time, it may not be necessary to make the Communication to the Legislature respecting my former Intention to return. Congress have compleated This Morning, a Business which has been long before them, their Instructions to their Ministers for nego tiating Treaties of Commerce. To those, which are extended to almost every commercial Power in Europe, are added propositions for Treaties of Amity with the Emperor of Morocco, and other Barbary Powers, & the negotiations are to be carried on & the Treaties signed by Messieurs Adams, Franklin, & Jefferson. 2 Previous to the passing these Instructions, a Letter of the 9th of March from Doctor Franklin was received giving Information that Mr Jay was to embark in April, 3 & the Intelligence corresponding with his Declaration in his last Letter to Congress, they appointed him to the Department of Secretary for for eign affairs. The treaties are to be for a Term not exceeding ten Years, & the Term allowed to negotiate them, is not to exceed two Years. G W on his Way to the Meeting of the Cincinnati at Phila delphia, passed thro this place, & I am confidentially informed, that he is opposed to the plan, & is determined to recommend the drop ping it altogether. This is communicated in Confidence to yourself to be imparted only to our Friends Mr Higginson, Mr Osgood, General Warren & Mr Bowdoin: to whom any other part of the Letter may also be communicated. Whilst I am writing, Mr. Bourne is waiting, & I can only add my dear sir my Respects to your lady & that I remain very sin ¬ cerely Your Friend & humble Sevt, E Gerry
