594 May 7, 1784 mate determination in answer to mine of April 30, I send off the pre sent in the instant of having received the communication, in hopes that if you should decide according to my wishes you will be able to join me in Philadelphia by the 25th. instant, till which day I will wait there for you. In the mean time write me by post, directing to me at Mrs. House’s in Philadelphia.* I propose for a particular purpose to carry my servant Jame with me. I must therefore ask the favor of you to hire an express at my expence to carry the inclosed to Capt. Key with your instructions to him, adapted to the event of your own deter mination. If you conclude to join me I would wish you to order Jame to join and attend you without a moment’s delay. If you decline the trip, be so good as to direct that he shall immediately come on to me at Philadelphia. Adieu Yours affectionately, Th. Jefferson Reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:229. i See JCC, 26:355-56; and Jefferson to Short, April 30, 1784. 2 For Short’s May 14 and 15 replies to this letter, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:253-58. John Montgomery to Robert Magaw Dear Sir Annapolis 7th May 1784 I understand that my trail with Alexander is to Come on against nixt Court and as I Can’t Convenendy attend Either at the View of the Jury on the primise or of striking a Jury nor Can I Convenendy attend at the Court but if the trail must Come on and you will inform me therof I must I sepose go up I have wrote to Mr Smith toJoyn you and if you may think it any advantage to imploy Mr Hamelton in Case Mr Wilson Cant attend youll mention to Sam who will Engage Mr Hamelton but I think myself safe with you and Mr Smith. I must De pend on you when the Jury is apointed to have proper persons apointed and Sam must attend them. I Can’t say if Sam can get the pa- pars Ralitive to that affair. I rather doubt it. Mr MaClay is my principle Evidence and John McDowell in Kiskwokquils Velly if you have an op- pertunitty to write me order your letter to be put into the post office at Baltimore and I shall be sure of geting it. Congrass has Just apointed Mr Jay Secrty of foreign affairs who is now in his way to this Countray and we have also apointed Mr Jefferson a Commissr in Erorope in Mr Jays stead who is to Joyn Mr Adams & Franklin in concluding treaties of Commerse with the powers in Erorope and we have past a set of instructions to the Commissr on that Subject. I am Sir your assured Frind and humbl Servt, John Montgomery
