May 8, 1784 597 Roger Sherman to the New Haven Merchants Committee Gentlemen Annapolis 7th May. 1784. I have paid due attention to the request of the Merchants and Traders in the City of N. Haven of the 19th of December last for ob taining an act of Congress prohibiting the Subjects of any foreign na tion, whose Ports are Shut against the Citizens of these States from Trading in any of the United States. 1 I have the honor now to transmit you a copy of the resolutions of Congress on that Subject, which I hope will be Satisfactory and have the desired effect. I am with much respect, your humble Servant. R..S. FC (MHi: Miscellaneous Bound Collection). In the hand of Sherman and endorsed by him: “Messrs. Elias Shipman, Joseph Drake and William Powel, Committee.” 1 The committee’s December 19 letter (which is not in PCC) had undoubtedly been referred to the committee appointed on February 6 to prepare “an address to the states on the subject of Commerce,” which had submitted a report on April 22 that was adopted the 30th. See PCC, item 186, fol. 148; and JCC, 26:269-71, 317-22, 721. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Annapolis 8th May 1784 The present session of Congress draws near to a Close. It is deter mined to adjourn on the third day of next month, and to appoint a Committee of the States to Sit in the recess; and as it will not be convenient for either of us to Stay after the Congress is adjourned, it will be necessary that another delegate Come to be a member of the Committee. Your Excellency will receive the requisitions for Supplies for the ex- pences of the current year, and payment of Interest, from the Secre tary, 1 who will also transmit the printed Journals containing the other acts of Congress. Instructions for Negociating Treaties of Commerce with most of the Commercial Nations in Europe were agreed to Yesterday; and Mr. Jef ferson was appointed to be joined in Commission with Mr. Adams & Doctr Franklin for Negociating the Treaties. 2 We are informed by a Letter from Doctr. Franklin dated the begin ning of March last that Mr Jay intended soon to return home, Where upon he was appointed Secretary of foreign affairs. 3 The Letter was short & does not contain much information, the ratification of the
