598 May 8, 1784 definitive treaty had not been received, tho’ the time for exchanging it was elapsed, which the Doctr. Supposes will not Occasion any difficulty. The Salaries of our Ministers at foreign Courts were reduced yester day 2111 dollars below what they were before Stated; 4 the Commis sions now to be given them are to continue in force not exceeding two years. Further reductions are proposed to be made of the expence of the civil list, as your Excellency may observe by a report, brought on to the printed Journals by Yeas & Nays. 5 There are before Congress to be acted Upon this Session, several Matters of a public Nature of considerable importance, the principal which we recollect are the following, An Ordinance for Ascertaining the mode of locating and disposing of lands in the Western territory. Another for putting the office of Finance into Commission. A report for Garrisoning the western Posts. Directions for Settling accounts, appointing & Impowenng a Com mittee of the States. Treating with the Southern Indians &c. There are also several matters under the consideration of Commit tees—Such as the Sinking the old continental Bills of Credit—Al lowances to be made to the particular States for expence of Militia &c for their own defence—doing Justice to those States who have raised more than their quotas of the continental troops actually kept up as to bounties &c—Penobscot Expedition—Application of New York to decide on the Case of Vermont. Application of Pennsylvania to re voke the order for appointing a Court on the Petition of Zebulun Butler and others. Alledging that the Petitioners have no Grant under Connecticut & therefore do not come within the provision of the article of Confederation. 5 A Petition from Zebulun Butler & oth ers to be quieted in their possessions until their right shall be deter mined. 7 The two last referred to the Same Committee, viz. Mr Jeffer son, Mr. Ellery and Mr. Williamson. Mr. John Franklin from Wyoming is now here, 8 by his account the settlers there under Connecticut are under very distressed circum stances, from the destruction of their property by the flood—and the oppression and violences of the ciaimers of their Lands under Pensyl vania, & of the armed forces kept up there by that State, without per mission of Congress contrary to the articles of Confederation. We Submit to your Excellency’s consideration whether it is not expedient that a representation of their Case should be made by the State of Connecticut, both to congress and the Supreme executive of Pennsyl vania. If the executive can’t reach those troops they certainly might Govern them, and punish them for the lawless violences committed against the citizens of the State. It is probable that the appointment of a court to try the right of those Settlers to the Soil, will be postponed till the next session of Congress at Trenton.
