600 May 8, 1784 Reprinted from Burnett, letters, 7:520-21, from a manuscript in the New York State Li brary copied before the 1911 Albany fire. i DeWitt had been a member of the committee that had recommended that “the State of New York ... make good to Dr. Nicholas Schuyler, late surgeon of Hazen’s regi ment, the depreciation of his pay as an officer in the late general hospital,” a recom mendation adopted by Congress on May 3. See JCC, 26:216, 335-36; and PCC, item 41, 9:285-88. For the grand committee fiscal report adopted by Congress on April 27, see JCC, 26:297-301. 2 See New York Delegates to Clinton, April 29, note 3. Thomas Jefferson to James Madison Dear Sir Annapolis May 8. 1784. I will now take up the several enquiries contained in your letter of Apr. 25 which came to hand yesterday. 1 ‘Will it not be good policy to suspend further treaties of commerce till measures shall have taken place in America, which may correct the idea in Europe of impotency in the federal government in matters of commerce?’ Congress think such measures requisite, and have accord ingly recommended them as you will perceive by my last. 2 In the meantime they seem to think that our commerce is got & getting into vital agonies by our exclusion from the West Indies, by late embarras- ments in Spain & Portugal, and by the dangers of the Mediterranean trade. These you observe form the aggregate of our valuable markets. They think that the presumption of one or two countries should not be a reason for suspending treaties with all countries: and that the prospect of effect from their recommendations on commerce will per haps drive on the treaties. The present favourable disposition of the piratical states on the Barbary coast has been repeatedly urged by our ministers as a circumstance which may be transient and should there fore be seised to open the Mediterranean to us. ‘Has Virginia been seconded &c. in her proposition for arming Congress with powers to frustrate the unfriendly regulations of Great Britain?’ Pennsylvania and Maryland offered much larger powers. Those of Virginia might have been defeated by the British king repeal ing his proclamation one day & renewing it the next. Yet the powers and plans from all these states were different: and it was visible they would authorize no single measure. Therefore Congress recom mended a uniform measure. ‘Is the impost gaining or losing ground?’ Gaining, most certainly. Georgia, North Carolina, New York, Connecticut & Rhode island are yet to pass it. The three first are supposed to be willing to do it. Con necticut has held off merely to try whether Congress would not re scind the commutation. Finding a firmness on this point it is said &
