May 8, 1784 601 beleived that at their next session they will come into it. Howell has often told me that R. I. will not accede to it as long as any other state holds off: but when every other shall have adopted it, she will. ‘Does the settlement of the public accounts make any comfortable progress?’ They are going on, but slowly I beleive. However they go on, and of course approach their term. ‘Has any resolution been taken by Congress touching the old Conti nental currency?’ That question has been debated by a grand Com mittee upwards of a month. They yesterday came to the inclosed reso lution. 3 It was decided by only 6 votes against 5. I think it will gain strength in the House. The Southern and middle states I beleive are for it, & I think one or two of the Eastern may perhaps come over. Yet there is far from being a certainty of this. ‘Has forborne to take any step in favor of ?’ 4 Their object was certainly not the same with ours. Yet they have not openly set their faces against us. They have one delegate, honest & disinter ested, who certainly will in no case do it. 5 ‘Whether the war ceased in March or April?’ I think no decision has taken place on that subject in our court of Appeals. Our ministers write that it is no question on that side the water but that it ended in March. The produce of our slave tax being nearly equal to the Continental requisitions, can you not get it appropriated to that purpose, and have it all paid in money? 6 Virginia must do something more than she has done to maintain any degree of respect in the Union & to make it bearable to any man of feeling to represent her in Congress. The pub lic necessities call distressingly for aid, and very ruinous circumstances proceed from the inattention of the states to furnish supplies in money. S. Carolina is the foremost state in supplies notwithstanding her distresses. Whence does this proceed? From a difference of spirit solely; from a pride of character; from a rejection of the unmanly supineness which permits personal inconveniency to absorb every other sentiment. There is no man who has not some vice or folly the starving of which would not pay his taxes. I am now to take my leave of the justlings of states and to repair to a feild where the divisions will be fewer but on a larger scale. Congress yesterday joined me to Mr. Adams & Dr. Franklin on the foreign com mercial negotiations. I shall pursue there the line I have pursued here, convinced that it can never be the interest of any party to do what is unjust, or to ask what is unequal. Mr. Jay was to sail for Amer ica this month. His health has obliged him to return to try his native air. He is appointed Sec. for Foreign affairs. I pray you to continue to favor me with your correspondence. At the close of every session of assembly a state of the general measures & dispositions, as well as of the subordinate politics of parties or indi-
