602 May 8, 1784 viduals will be entertaining and useful. During recesses other objects will furnish matter sufficient for communication. On my part I shall certainly maintain the correspondence. If moreover you can at any time enable me to serve you by the execution of any particular com mission I shall agree that my sincerity may be judged by the readiness with which I shall execute it. In the purchase of books, pamphlets &c. old & curious, or new & useful I shall ever keep you in my eye. Whether I shall procure for you the books you have before desired at Philadelphia or Paris shall be decided according to circumstances when I get to Philadelphia, from which place I will write to you. I have a tender legacy to leave you on my departure. I will not say it is the son of my sister, tho her worth would justify my resting it on that ground; but it is the son of my friend, the dearest friend I knew, who, had fate reversed our lots, would have been a father to my children? He is a boy of fine dispositions, and sound masculine talents. I was his preceptor myself as long as I staid at home, & when I came away I placed him with Mr. Maury. On his breaking up his school I desired Mr. Short to dispose of him, but Mr. Short I expect will go with me to Europe. I have no body then but you to whose direction I could con sign him with unlimited confidence. He is nearly master of the Latin, and has read some Greek. I beleive he is about 14 years of age. 1 would wish him to be employed till 16 in completing himself in latin, Greek, French, Italian & Anglosaxon. At that age I mean him to go to the college. I have written to my sister of the application I make to you & she will be very happy to have your advice executed. My steward Mr. Key will furnish money to his tutors &c. on your order. There is a younger one, just now in his Latin rudiments. If I did not fear to over charge you I would request you to recommend the best school for him. He is about 10 years old, and of course ceteris paribus, of any two schools, that nearest his mother would be most agreeable. You will readily understand I am speaking of the sons of Mr. Carr. I think Colo. Monroe will be of the Committee of the states. He wishes a correspondence with you; and I suppose his situation will ren der him an useful one to you. The scrupulousness of his honor will 8 make you safe in the most confidential communications, a better man cannot be. I think your two loans to me amounted to 50314 Dollars. I paid for the first pair of spectacles 13% Doll. & shall pay the same for the 2d unless they should be returned. I now inclose you an order on the Treasurer for 407% Dollars 9 which will leave in my hand a balance of 68% Dollars due to you which is about the sum you desired. May 11. Many considerations have determined me to go on to Boston & take shipping from thence. This was a conclusion of yester day. All my letters dated previous to that will state me as purposing to sail from N. York. I leave this place to-day; expect to stay in Philadel phia till the 25th and to be at Boston about the 3d of June.
