May 10, 1784 605 would be made & carry’d for striking off both the Geographers, Offi cers which a considerable Part of Congress do not suppose to exist at this Hour. You may have seen in the Hands of some public Officers in Philad’ the Resolves of Congress lately pass’d for dividing the western Country into states; there is now on its Passage an Ordinance for opening the Land Office. It is proposed that a surveyor Genl or a Reg ister, having the same duties, shall be appointed in each of the States. This will be a permanent and a good Office. There are several Candi dates for those offices; your friends count on putting you into one of the first. If a push should be made by Rivals well supported it will be much more easy to remove you from the present Office into the other than to put a Man into office who is absolutely out of it. On this View of the Subject, informed as I am of the general Ideas of the states on the Subject of Salaries I thought that your true Interest would be pro moted by suffering the Question to rest. There is now before Congress an application from Mr. DeWidt the other Geographer supported by Genl Washington. 3 Mr DeWidt requests to know whether it is the wish of Congress that he be discharged. And expresses his wish that he may be appointed Surveyor Genl in a new State which may be laid off. This application is committed & is in my Hands as one of the Committee. We cannot with consistence report that one of the Geographers should be discharged as a useless Officer while the other is retaind, nor can we say that one of them should continue to receive 4 Dlrs while the other takes only 2, & we certainly cannot with propriety insist on Mr DeWidts taking more than he thinks is due. Viewing the subject in Every Point of Light I shall not call for the Report on your Memorial unless you shall inform me of your wish to have a determination. I have reed. Pleasure & Information from your Publication respect ing the southern Port of Louisiana. 4 However true it may be that the U S may, when they shall desire so to do, take Possession of N Orleans & the Mississipi I wish that no such Idea had been committed to Print especially by an Officer of the United States. There are many things very true which in political Prudence should not be affirmed, lest they should be supposed to mean more than is really meant, or to excite suspicions that there existed some Intention to convert the theorem into a Problem. In preparing the Ordinance now pending before Congress for opening a Land Office & surveying the Western vacant Lands some Mathematical & Geometrical Questions occur’d. The Committee had not access to some Books which they wished to see. I wish to know how many miles & feet were found to be in a Degree of Latitude ac cording to the measurement made by Mason & Dixon in the Delaware State, for I think they made one. I wish also to know the precise Trans lation of a Taise into a British foot, in Order to know how many Miles & feet were found to be in a Degree in France, Norway & South Amer-
