608 May 11, 1784 not be so illustrious, (but not less substantially benificial) as those of Europe. Congress is at present well disposd, & their deliberations have been much less under the controul of M. Marbois & the Financier since they left Philadelphia. Much industry will therefore be usd to make them return thither, But I think without success. The adjourn ment which is fixt for the 3d of next month, will end my congressional character, not being eligible another year under the confederation. The next year I mean to devote to a tour in the western Country, down the Ohio & Missisippi to New Orleans & from thence to Georgia & the Carolinas. After that I shall sit myself down in some retird place, the world forgetting, by the world forgot. I wish you every success in your negociations, & a happy return, to where no one will be more welcome, your own Country. Farewell A. Lee RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 That is, Robert and Gouverneur Morris. Thomas Mifflin to Nicholas Van Dyke Si r> Annapolis May 11th 1784 I have the Honor to inform your Excellency that there are Subjects of considerable importance which demand the immediate attendance of your Delegates in Congress, 1 which must necessarily be postponed unless they come forward without Delay, Congress having determined to adjourn on the 3d day of June next. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin RC (DLC: Van Dyke Papers). Addressed: “His Excellency Governor Vandyke.” 1 That is, of Delaware. Georgia was also unrepresented, but President Mifflin appar ently concluded that a similar appeal to Gov. John Houstoun could have no practical ef fect at this time. Roger Sherman to Ezra Stiles Sir Annapolis 11th. May 1784 I take the liberty to introduce to you the Honorable Thomas Jeffer son Esqr. late Governor of Virginia. Now a Minister Plenepotentiary of the united States for negociating Treaties of Commerce with Great Britain and Several other European Powers in conjunction with Mr.
