May 13, 1784 613 of their Sentiments, yet their want of information with respect to the true Commercial Interests of the Southern States, must have remain’d an insurmountable obstacle with us, to the commission of such exten sive Powers of clogging our Commerce to a Delegation wholly from Northern States. Shou’d this have been the motive, which influenc’d the Legislature, we flatter ourselves that their objection will have been remov’d by the appointment of Mr. Jefferson—and that the present European Com mission will be as satisfactory to the State of Virginia as it appears to be to Congress. In this hope & when we reflect on what essential bene fits the Union may derive from his Talents & exertions in an employ ment as arduous in its execution, as it will be important in its effects, we feel ourselves in a great measure compensated for the public loss of a very able, & our private loss of a very amiable Colleague. We woud suggest the Utility of collecting memorials from the prin cipal trading Houses of Virginia, on the present State of our Foreign Commerce. An intelligent merchant employ’d in the direct exchange with Europe, might furnish useful hints to the ablest negociator. His accounts of sales in Foreign Countries together with his remarks on the inconveniences & impositions he was in the several instances sub jected to, woud throw light on the particular Stipulations, which it will no doubt be the policy of the United States to preferr, to the loose, vague & general terms adopted in the Treaties heretofore made. Any information on this subject, which the Executive woud transmit to the Delegates, woud be by them instantly forwarded to our Commission ers in Europe. The Plan for the purchase of the Western Territory ceded to the United States, having been digested, a meeting of the Commissioners, appointed to negociate with the Indians, was directed to be held in New York. Thither but two of them repair’d & three having refused to accept of their appointments, Congress went into the nomination of others to supply their places. 3 Before this the Express sent in pursuit of General Clarke had return’d, without seeing him, so that but little hopes remain’d of his attending the Treaty, accordingly, we thought it best to nominate our Colleague, the Honorable Mr. Lee, who had pre viously consented to undertake the business. He was appointed, to gether with General Lincoln, but before he cou’d leave Congress, the two Commissioners at New York, after waiting some time without being able to form a board, had seperated, to meet again in the Month of August. The Statement of the Expenditures of Public Monies, from the Of fice of Finance, Mr. Morris informs he had delay’d furnishing, not having yet relinquish’d hopes of being able to quit that Department at a very early period, to which it was his wish to make up his Accounts at
