616 May 14, 1784 gentleman in a different State, dated March 4, mentioning the novel Order of Cincin nati.” A continuation of it was also printed in the April 29 issue. 3 See Gerry to Stephen Higginson, May 13, 1783. < See JCC, 26:343. 5 Adams was referring to the fourth condition set forth in the original draft of the or dinance “for the temporary government of the western territory”—“That their respec tive governments shall be in republican forms, and shall admit no person to be a citizen who holds any hereditary title.” It had been revised during debate on April 20. Cf. JCC, 26:119, 250, 277. James Monroe to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis May 14. 1784 At length our foreign affairs are put upon as excellent an establish ment as we could desire. As respectable talents as these States possess with characters eminint for integrity & attachment to the publick in terest collected also in such manner from the different parts of the union as to possess a knowledge of the local interests of the whole are concenter’d in the three gentn. Mr. Adams, Mr. Franklin & Mr. Jeffer son who are imploy’d in the negotiation of our commerc[ia]l treaties abroad and Mr. Jay who is we expect by this time on his passage to America is appointed minister of foreign affairs, an arrang’ment which pass’d by the unanimous vote of Congress, & founded as we conceive in an equal representation of the interests of the States, will I trust gain the approbation of the State. I have also the pleasure to in form your excellency that Colo. Humphrey is appointed secretary to the commission. 1 By this the States not only engage in their service a gentleman who merits this attention, but comply with their engage ment to the late commander in chief by providing for one of those who attended his person till his retreat from publick life. Attention hath also been paid to the interests of the southern States upon the infringment of the article of the treaty with G. Brittain respecting the negroes in their removal from N. York. We hope that the conduct of that court upon this occasion will be so conformable to the principles of justice & good faith as to remove all cause of umbrage from these States. A late letter from Dr. Franklin informs us that the unfavorable impressions entertain’d sometime since in Europe of these States, aris ing from the retreat of Congress from Phila., are remov’d & that the govt, of each State & of the union are held now in higher estimation. 2 Your Excellency hath already receiv’d a copy of the requisitions on the States for supplies, appropriated as stated in those requisitions to the expences of the civil govt. & the discharge of the interest due upon the foreign & domestic debt. I am persuaded the State will derive ad vantage from that part which admits of the payment of % in facilities. Whatever liquidated claims the State hath against the U. States are
