May 14, 1784 617 comprehended under this description, & in the payment of the inter est due the State line as well as every other kind of advance, by im pressment or otherwise, I shod suppose had put it in possession of more than sufficient for that purpose. Your Excellency hath also been advis’d of the resolution of Congress to adjourn on the 3d ofjune next to meet in Trenton on the 30 of October. It is farther resolv’d to leave siting a committee of the States. This I am persuaded shod always be the case during the recess of Congress for while there exists a fcederal government & any arrangments abroad or within depending on it, any responsible characters acting under it, there shod, always be a foederal head. I have further to inform your Excellency that I entertain very sanguine hopes, the business of importance still before us, will be con cluded before we adjourn in a manner which will generally give satis faction to the members & I trust to the States which they represent. I have the honor to be Yr. Excellency’s most obt. & very humble servant, Jas. Monroe RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 See Elbridge Gerry to Stephen Higginson, May 13, note 4. 2 This information was communicated in Franklin’s letter of December 25, 1783, which had been read in Congress in early March. See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:741; and Jonathan Blanchard tojosiah Bartlett, March 5, note 4. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson My dear Sir Annapolis May 14. 1784. I hope before this you have safely arriv’d in Phila. I very sensibly feel your absence not only in the solitary situation in wh. you have left me but upon many other accounts. What direction the delegation may take even for the short space that we shall remn. here, upon the few important subjects that are before us, is to me altogether incer tain. The same men still act on the same principles & upon points where no personal objects are in view on either side, accommodation on the part of those gendemen is if possible more difficult to be at tain’d. As I have not been able to finish our cypher I can only give you an acct, of one or two measures. By the next post I will send it and be fore your departure give you information of whatever hath or may happen. We have appointed Colo. Humphreys secretary to the Em bassy or commission. The report upon taking possession of the west ern posts hath been before Congress. Hand mov’d for its postpone ment to take up a plan of his, more concise, but not very explicit. His plan is to dismiss the troops at west point & elsewhere & enlist others for this service which he supposes may be effected in a very few weeks & in time to serve the purpose of the Indian comrs. 1 I wish you to in-
