May 15, 1784 619 men being from the Eastern, the Middle, and the Western parts of this Continent, will I trust give General Satisfaction. Mr. Jefferson has already set out, intending to go as far East as Boston, to take passage in some of our Eastern Vessels. This Mr. Jeffer son is a Sensible, Judicious Man, and particularly acquainted with the policy of the Southern states. I have the most sanguine Expectation, of the good Agreement of the Commissioners, & that they will affect Treaties, advantagious to the Commerce of these States. I trust that your Excellency is Appriz’d that Congress are determined to Adjourn, on the 3d of June, leaving at this place, a Comtee. of the States. The powers to be exercis’d in the recess, are not yet ascertaind, perhaps Generally that of Seven States. It would give me great Satisfaction to Return with my Colleague. I am determind however to remain so long, as I can be of Service to the State, I have in part the honour to Represent, but Sir, permit me to Suggest, the Idea of a large body of Water nearly fresh in front, two considerable Coves, almost surrounding this City, the Buildings Chiefly of brick, a sandy Soil, the most extravagant place, perhaps in the world for living, Conspiring to make my Situation, not the most agreeable. But Stimulated [as] I am to keep up a Representation, I trust I shall receive every Support in your Excellencys power. I have the honour to be, Sir, Your Excellencys Most Obt. Servt. Jona. Blanchard RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 JCC, 27:382. Weare’s letter is in PCC, item 64, fols. 246—47. 2 JCC, 27:367-74. Thomas Mifflin to Henry Knox Sir, Annapolis May 15th 1784 I enclose to you an Act of Congress of the 12th Inst. 1 which you are directed to open a Correspondence with the Commander in Chief of his Britanic Majesty’s Forces in Canada in order to ascertain the precise time when each of the Posts within the Territories of the United States now occupied by British Troops shall be delivered up. You are also to endeavour to effect an exchange with the British Com manding Officer in Canada of the Cannon and Stores at the Posts to be evacuated, for Cannon and Stores to be delivered at West Point, New York or some other convenient place, and if this cannot be ac complished, that then you cause the compliment of Cannon and Stores requisite for those Posts to be in readiness to be transported in the most convenient and expeditious manner possible. 2 I am Sir with great respect, Your Obedient & humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin
