620 May 16, 1784 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). i See JCC, 27:376. 2 In his May 24 response to this letter, which is in PCC, item 167, fols. 395-97, Knox recommended that he discharge this directive by ordering “a confidential field officer to repair to Canada, who will be able upon the spot to negociate the affair much sooner than it could be done by Letters,” a suggestion that Congress immediately endorsed. JCC, 27:420. Edward Hand to Catharine Hand My Dearest Kitty, Annapolis 16th May 1784 Since I wrote you last week 1 nothing extraordinary has happened, the month draws to a close & the 3d of June nearer. I had a letter from Mr. Hiltzheimer, he says he has not had a single offer for the horses, which surprises me much, it is an unlucky circumstance but must be born. The Carriage he has been offered 200 Dollars for. I have told him to take it if he can’t get more. I presume the longer it lies the worse it will be. The two Mr. Gallaways have lately been to see me, they are very well, I expect them in town again on Tuesday next. I hope soon to see you & my dear little pratlers. Adieu my dearest life! Present my duty, love, & Compliments to all & believe me to be, your most Affectionate, Edwd. Hand 2 RC (PHi: Hand Papers). 1 See Hand to Jasper Yeates, May 3, note 2. 2 Hand also wrote a second letter to Kitty this day, reporting little more than “Having written to Jacky Ewing [not found] and your Self this morning, & committed my letters to a Mr. Gamble who set out for Philada. I have nothing to Add by this Opertunity which Mr. Hoofnagle’s going immediately to Lancaster gives me, but to tell you that I am well & one day nearer the 3d of June.” Hand Papers, PHi. Charles Thomson to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Annapolis 16 May 1784 I expect you will receive by this conveyance all the necessary papers with the twenty Commissions. 1 You will find by these that my simple draught did not suit the taste of our sovereign body. With much ado the additions were confined to two, and so far did the Gerrian taste prevail that contrary to the practice of every other nation the prefix of Honble was inserted. Should you or any of your collegues be hereafter honored with a new commission & the Gerrian taste continue to pre vail, what a noble string of titles may be added to your names! 2
