May 20, 1784 633 are—if 7 states were on the floor represented generally by but two members & the question was, shall a delegation retain its seat, or any particular member, the time of service having actually expir’d, the vote of one member only wod. keep him in Congress. 2. That the question is not, shall they be turn’d cut? It is not an ordinary legisla tive act, but a judicial one & the confideration the law & to be applied to the case in question. It is a question of right, does it or not exist? If it does what number of States are necessary to confirm it. That in all judicial the decisions the majority of at least the siting members is nec essary to establish any right. In most or indeed all a majority of the commission. That here it is more essentially necessary, that the major ity of the U.S. in Congress assembled are competent only to the infe rior duties of govt., that 9 States are necessary to the most important acts. That a scrupulous attention to the object & principles of the con federation wod. perhaps require that the number necessary to govern the States shod, concur in the opinion of the validity of their respec tive credentials, but that neither the policy of the confederation nor any principle of govt, will admit that the consent of less than 7 States shall be necessary. That in this case there is not only a minority of the U.S. in Congress assembled in their favor but a minority of those pre sent. On the other side it was argued 1. that having their seats 7 States are necessary to turn them out; that the power of excluding delega tions from their character & office shod, not be committed to a less number. That if the question was shall a delegation be admitted under indisputable credentials from his State, the number present being as before stated, & only one member voted against it, it wod. be nega tiv’d. That this wod. be a dangerous engine in the hands of party men—that the resolution of the committee agnst. them was negativ’d & of course they remain members. I submit to you the reasons on both sides as they occur to me at present but perhaps I do not recol lect the whole for being just ready to mount our horses, I have not time to be so particular as I cod. wish. Give me yr opinion upon this affr. I have negotiated the affr. of the bill, pd. the Intendant £7.10s. & inclose you the balance except three dollrs. wh. he gave me in money & wh. I reserve not being able to send it. I inclose you a cypher, which I hope you will be able to read, but upon examining it I find it incom plete & must therefore leave it with Mr. Clerici to be finish’d & sent by post. 3 The gentlemen wait for me & have only time to add that I am yr. affect, friend & servt., Jas. Monroe RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 For Monroe’s appointment to this committee, see Committee of Congress to Thomas Hutchins, February 21, note. 2 See Charles Thomson to Jefferson, May 19, note 2. 3 See Samuel Hardy tojefferson, May 21, note 1.
