634 May21, 1784 Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Si r. Annapolis May 21st. 1784 Herewith You will receive a Copy of the civil Establishment of the united States as reported to a Comtee. of Congress by the Financier the last winter. 1 Have delayed to transmit the Same untill this Time hoping that a Report of a Comtee. for reducing not only the Offices but also the Sallaries would have been considered. Yet fear that will not be done before the adjournment. Some Altarations in the civil Estab lishment have taken Place since the Report of the Financier. The Hon- ble. John Adams, Benjamin Franklin & Thomas J ef ferson Esqrs. are ap pointed Commissioners for entering into Treaties of Commerce with several forreign Powers with a Sallary of 9000 Dollars [Per] Annum each. Colo. David Humphry Secretary to the Commission with a Sal lary of 3000 Dollars Per Annum. The Honble. John Jay Esqr. Secretary for forreign Affairs. A Reduction of the Expence in the civil Establish ment is earnestly desired by many of Congress but that and some other Objects equally important are still delayed while six Days have been spent in determining the Question whether the Time for which the Delegates of the State of Rhode Island were appointed is expired? The Matter is not yet ended and every other Buissness is delayed. We have the Honor to be with the highest Esteem & Regard Your Excellency’s hble. Servants, Roger Sherman James Wadsworth RC (CtY: Franklin Papers). Written by Wadsworth and signed by Wadsworth and Sherman. 1 This document was enclosed in a Robert Morris letter to Thomas Jefferson of Febru ary 25, 1784, but no copy of it has been found. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:564n. Charles DeWitt to Gerret DeWitt My dear Son Gerrit: Annapolis, May 21, 1784. I feel exceeding happy this day on receiving letters from all my dear children, expecially when I learn from them that you all enjoy the great blessing of health, and when I am happy to inform you that 1 have ever since I left you enjoyed good health, even in this Southern climate. Can you think that I lie down without the least disturbance of mind and sleep sweetly every night like a little child, when you are ac quainted with the many anxieties in which I generally am involved, I am astonished at it myself at times. But I have endeavored to divest myself of all those cares that I may be the better enabled to devote my whole time to the public whose servant I am at present, and I wish to be faithful however incompetent for the important purposes for which I was sent here.
