May 21, 1784 635 I am happy to learn that you are so well reconciled to business. I hope this trial will have such an effect on you as to make you in love with industry and business. I have an higher opinion of industry and business now than ever before, occasioned by my stay in this place, this school of idleness and dissipation. Never did my eyes behold a set of people so totally devoted to plea sure, dress and extravagance of almost every kind as the Marylanders. The best part of this week they have spent in horseracing it is their an nual week for that purpose, and also at plays which have been I be lieve acted every evening of this week, and I am told there is one this evening that may last till one o’clock in the morning which will bring them to Sunday. I have myself attended a Tragedy with some Gentle men of Congress. On Wednesday last I took a walk after adjournment of Congress to the Common where they have their races, I saw one heat and then left the plain where there were some hundreds of idle spectators, ’round about and in Booths where liquors of all kinds were sold, fool ing away precious time. I then bent my walk toward the banks of the great Chesepeake Bay (you must know before you arrive there that great work of Omnipotence opens to your view) when approaching thither a train of serious and solemn thoughts crowded into my mind, which is always the case when I view the great bay, the contem plation thereof affords me such pleasures as all the horseracing are incapable of, and I left affected that such numbers were killing time by wholesale, but as soon as I return from my lonely walk into this lit tle City this school of idleness, the frailties of human nature are apt to vail these pleasing reflections. I must however say that the people are exceeding kind, and their morals in other respects are not worse if so bad as our Northern folks. In this little town is a play house pretty elegantly finished on the in side, and also a Ball house, both these buildings are of brick, but I find no Church, they have however a Minister who officiates at pres ent in the State House which is elegant. My letter is long enough, I suppose I shall set out from this place in about a fortnight, some visits and business in Philadelphia will detain me there I suppose for a week, and in New York it may be that I shall be obliged to stay a fortnight, if I am not mistaken, this will bring me home near July, I trust all to my children, and above all I have com mitted all my cares and concerns to Him whose goodness has con ducted me through the darkest scenes of my life. This I believe will be all the letters I shall write, and I suppose the last from this place before I leave it. I am my dear Son, Your ever affect and most loving father, Charles DeWitt. MS not found; reprinted from Oide Ulster') (May 1909): 146-48.
