636 May21, 1784 Samuel Hardy to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Annapolis 21st. May 1784. Enclosed you will receive a Cypher which Colo Monroe requested me to transmit you. 1 He together with Mr Lee & Mr Gerry sat out yes terday to Georgetown. We thought it expedient that the Committee should proceed in order to turn the view of the Continent to that place as the spot where Congress may perhaps ultimately fix.2 Since your departure we have done nothing. Congress have been involved in a scene of Confusion greater than you can conceive. The Committee of Qualifications reported that the time of the Del egates of Rhode Island had expired. To this report five states assented, two dissented & three were divided. A question then arose whether as the report was not agreed to by seven states, those Gent, were de prived of their seats—Or whether when the right of a Member to sit was questioned it did not req[uire] seven states to establish that right. It has produced great diversity of sentiment, & more altercation than I have ever seen either in Congress or any other place—so that I begin seriously to apprehend we shall be forced to adjourn & confess to the World that the division of our Councils has prevented the adoption of those measures which the interest of the Union so loudly call’d for at our hands. I am sir with every Sentiment of respect, Your Most Obedt. S. Hardy 3 RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 For this cipher and the problems associated with it, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:279n. For another code used in the Virginia delegates’ correspondence, see Monroe to Jefferson, July 20, 1784, note 1. 2 For the work of this committee, see Committee of Congress to Thomas Hutchins, February 21, note. 3 This day Hardy also wrote a brief note to Gov. Benjamin Harrison acknowledging the receipt of his letter and assuring him that “its enclosure shall be forwarded without delay.” Continental Congress Papers, Vi. Hugh Williamson to John Gray Blount Dear Sir, Annapolis 21st May 1784 The last Post brought me a new Commission by which it appears that it will be my Duty to continue in Congress till the adjournment. That Event is fixed for the 3rd June, perhaps we may put it off to the 15th. I presume the state does not expect nor wish that I should con tinue on the Committee during the Recess of Congress. I propose therefore to return to N Carolina soon after Congress shall adjourn. I fear that I shall be short of mony. I wish you could make it convenient
