May 22, 1784 637 to lodge 3 or 400 Dlrs in the Hands of Miles Hillbourne of Philada. for my Use. Though it should not arrive before I set out, if I have oc casion to borrow the mony I can give him conditional Orders to repay it. Should I fall into the Hands of those Jews, paying as both Mr Nash & Mr Hawkins did for some Time an Interest of 5 Per Cent Every month, the sooner I can pay the Debt the better. My Expences have lately been more than I had counted on. The Payment of the Note due by Smith would have established my Independence for the sea son, but of that Mony there is not the most distant Hope. 1 By a Vessel just arrived from England reports are reed, that after the Parliamt of England had been dissolved on the new Elections Mr Pitts Party were very successful and that Mr Fox was in danger of losing his Election for Westminster. That a new political Phenomenon had ap pear’d. The Dutches of Devonshire had personally appear’d on the Hustings or Stage and solicited Votes for Fox. The Pitt administration if established will greatly promote our Plans of mercantile Treaties. I am with the utmost Consideration, Dr Sir, your obedt Servt, Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 Williamson wrote a second brief letter to Blount this day upon learning from Blount’s brother, William, that “Mr. James Smith.... will pay the Note” and that an an swer could be expected “in a few days.” Blount Papers, Nc-Ar. Charles DeWitt to Robert R. Livingston My Dear sir. Annapolis May 22. 1784 I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your very agree able Favor of the 9th Inst. From Clermont, 1 where you undoubtedly enjoy more happiness than a Delegate in Congress. Our whole time has been spent in doing very little. We have destroyed this Week past in debates on the Rhode Island Delegation, which was reported by the Committee of Qualifications to be expired, but no more than Four States agreed in Opinion with the Committee. 2 This occasioned great Heats, insomuch that appearances indicated open Violence in the House, by a Young Virginian and one of the Rhode Island Gent. 3 Whether their Ardor will be cooled down by Monday is to me yet un certain. The Committee on the Vermont affair have met this day for the second time, but cannot even conjecture what will be the result of their deliberation. I believe however a report of some sort will be made, but a final decision, I have no reason to expect, if I may be al lowed to Judge from the completion of many Members of Congress. Could you think Dear Sir that amidst all the greatness in which I am involved, that I should forget my Friends; surely if you had recollected
