638 May 22, 1784 that I had for some years past been “surrounded with the Wise and Great” such a thought could not have arisen in your Mind, I love my Friends more than high places, the latter is become insipid to me, and more so, since I have had the High Honor of treading on the dirty floor of Congress. However I believe it is my duty to be content, and therefore it gives me no great pain that I am thus confined. I have written to you some days agoe, when I enclosed an extract of a letter of Mr. Franklin advising that Mr. Jay would sail for America in April last, which I trust you have received. I have desired Mr. Remsen to col lect some materials of information of foreign affairs to send you, which if he gets ready to send by the Post on Tuesday next you may expect an enclosure herewith. Mr. Stephens 4 arrived here two days agoe; if we adjourn on the 3d day of June next he will have but a short participation of the pleasures of Congress, in the City of Annapolis. Perhaps he may think it long enough. I am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate Friend & Humble servt. Ch. D. Witt RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston’s draft of this letter is also in the Livingston Papers, NHi. 2 See Charles Thomson to Thomas Jefferson, May 19, note 2. 3 That is, John Francis Mercer and David Howell. 4 That is, Newjersey delegate John Stevens, Livingston’s father-in-law. David Howell to Jabez Bowen Dear Sir, Annapolis 22, May 1784. Yours of the 10th Instant came to hand this moment. I doubt not of your perseverance in your good office to procure as early payment on our bills as may consist with the State of our Treasury. I was sorry to make so large a draft at the time; but I fear we are to be detained here ’till it will be insufficient. I have lived in as oeconomical a Stile as pos sible: but expences run high in this place. The business of Mr. Greens accounts, 1 with, which you have charged us, will have our most careful & persevering attention. We know the man & the distresses of the family. You observe that no body has been ordered on to relieve us—as you expect an adjournment this month. The adjournment was ordered to take place on the 3d of June next, & a committee of the States to be left during the recess. We have as yet reed no Letters announcing our reelection. Our old credentials for the last election have been called in question & the whole business of the nation suspended the last six days in canvassing the Subject notwithstanding an adjourment is so nigh at hand & so much business of importance calls for our attention. 2
