650 May 31, 1784 That in consequence of a resolution of Congress of the 12th June 1776 he reed, by his Agent, Mr. James Milligan, 9000 Dollars to pur chase an Uniform for the regiment he then had the Honor to Com mand, as appears by Mr. Milligan’s letter dated 9th August 1776. That, a quantity of Clothing purchased with that money was reed., and distributed to the regiment as appears by Mr. Milligan’s letter of the 22d August 1776, and the regiml. Quarter-Masters Certificate Annexed That, Ten Cases, and Ten Bundles, containing a large and general Assortment of valuable Articles of Clothing &ca. purchased with the same money, and intended for his said regiment, were about the latter end of October 1776 forwarded From Philadelphia to Fort Lee on the Hudson as appears by letters from Mr. Milligan, and his Clerk, Mr. James Heron’s, dated October 29 & 31st 1776 and the General Invoice dated 30th of the same month. That those Ten Cases and ten Bundles unfortunately fell into the hands of the Enemy as appears by a letter from Mr. Heron dated 27th Deer. 1776, one from Mr. Milligan of 4th June 1777, and the Certifi cate of Clement Biddle Esqr. who was acting as Quarter Master Gen eral at the time the said Clothing was lost. Your Memorialist flatters himself, that the papers herein before re ferred to, shew clearly that he did every thing in his power to comply with the intention of the resolution of Congress of the 12 June 1776 in favour of his then Regiment—that in the Choice of an Agent to transact the business, he had in view the good of the Regimt. & that of the service in general (the different important offices which Mr. Milli gan has since held, sufficiently evinceing the sense Congress entertain of his Integrity & Abilities). That the loss of the said clothing, arose from Accidents incident to War, which he could not foresee or guard against. He therefore humbly entreats that, Congress may be pleased to order the Comptroller of the Treasury to pass to the credit of his said late Regiment, the amount of the sums paid for the Clothing so lost, with the necessary expences incurred in purchasing & transporting the same, and your Memorialist will pray &cad Edwd. Hand RC (DNA: PCC, item 41). 1 Hand’s memorial was referred to a committe which recommended on June 2 that he be credited with “the amount of the sums paid for the clothing so lost,” but there is no record in the journals or papers of Congress indicating that any action was taken on the recommendation. For the committee report on the memorial, which is endorsed by Charles Thomson “Report of Mr McHenry, Mr Dana, Mr Read—On letter of Mr Hand respectg Cloathing purchased for his regt & which fell into the hands of the Enemy, read June 2. 1784,” see PCC, item 19, 3:29-31; and JCC, 27:525. See also Hand to Thomas Mifflin, April 19, 1784.
