May 31, 1784 651 David Howell to Jabez Bowen Dear Sir, Annapolis 31 May 1784. Your Letter respecting Mr. Greens accounts came duly to hand. The subject will be laid before Congress. I cannot undertake to predict their decision—but I pray you to inform Col. Flagg that altho I have obtained a report of a Committee that his accounts should be settled by Mr. Chinn, I have not been able to get that report agreed to in Congress. 1 It seems to be adopted as a rule that accounts are to be set tled in the line of the department in which they were contracted. An Ordinance for putting the department of Finance into Commis sion passed in Congress the 28th Instant, a copy whereof is enclosed on paper No. I. 2 Altho’ this object has been steadily pursued by some for a considerable time, there is reason to believe that we should have finally failed of obtaining it, had it not occurred to others as the only remaining expedient of regaining the confidence of the States & ob taining the long expected funds. Should funds be obtained by this means—the board of treasury be abolished, & Congress revert to their former opinion that the funds should be under “the controul of a single Will” what would you think of the manoeuvre? On the 29th Instant Congress passed sundry resolutions defining & establishing the powers to be exercised by a Committee of the States—a copy of which is enclosed on paper No. 2. 3 I freely confess I consented to appoint a Committee only with a view to obtain a recess. If they do no good, their powers are too much restricted to admit of their doing much hurt. Mr. Ellery is chosen a member of this Commit tee for our State; in consequence whereof I have requested him to stay till the sense of the General Assembly could be communicated to him on the Subject—what he will determine finally is with himself. As Con gress has made the concurrence of nine voices necessary in every act there is ample Security against the Committees sitting in Philadel phia—unless infatuated. I have enclosed on paper No. 3 the act of the Legislature of Penn sylvania granting to Congress the power of levying & collecting an Im post of 5 per Cent, on Imposts, &c. 4 This act is complete as to the im post; but very deficient on the supplementary funds—only containing in the 7th Section a general & vague promise to raise & levy on the per sons & estates of the Inhabitants of the State their proportion thereof in such manner as the Legislature may direct—to the full amount of the assump tion they were & are holden by the the 8th of the Articles of the Con federation. If they meant to comply, why did not they point out spe-
