658 May 31, 1784 they have passed the enclosed Resolutions which I transmit to you at the request of the Doctor. 1 On Friday I expect to have the Pleasure of seing Mount Vernon in Company with Mrs. Mifflin and Mr. Lloyds family—But there is a pos sibility that we shall not proceed farther than Alexandria on that day as the setting of Congress on thursday may be so late as to prevent my leaving Annapolis before friday mornings. At every event I have deter mined not to see Philadelphia before I have the Satisfaction of paying a Visit at Mount Vernon. I am with the greatest sincerity and Attachment, Dear Sir, Your Obe dient humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin RC (DLC: Washington Papers). i For the enclosed May 25 resolve signifying Congress’ willingness to grant Dr. William Gordon access to papers “of the late Commander in Chief’ in the files of the secretary, see JCC, 27:427-28. For Gordon’s interest in access to Washington’s papers and to Continental documents in general for the writing of his history of the American Revolution, see Samuel Holten to Gordon, August 7, 1783, note; and Washington, Pa pers, (Abbot), Confederation Series, 1:177-78, 376-77. Edward Hand to Catharine Hand My Dearest Kitty Annapolis 1st. June 1784 When I last wrote you I expected the happiness of seeing you about the Middle of this month, 1 as Congress are to adjourn on the 3d. I am not now altogether so positive as I then was, because, I have since been Elected to serve on the Committee of the States 2 —but I hope that Congress will direct the Committee to meet at Trenton. If they do, I shall have no doubt of seeing you & my dear family soon—in deed at any rate I think it will be the Case. With duty, love & Compliments to all to whom they are due I am my dearest Kitty most affectionately yrs. Edwd. Hand RC (PHi: Hand Papers). 1 In his letter to Kitty of May 25, Hand had reported his expectation that “next week Will take me from this place.” Hand Papers, PHi. 2 For this May 29 action, see JCC, 27:477. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Annapolis June 1. 1784 I have been favor’d with yours of the 25 by the last post with its en closures & will pay due attention to the contents. 1 Two points have been effected since my last, the puting the office of finance into com-
