662 June 1,1784 Force. Resolve of June 3d relative to Vouchers furnished by the State of Massachusetts in 1776—directing Commissioner for settling Ac counts of that State to pass the Accots. &c. 24 That Andrew Lytle’s Ac count be Credited with seven hundred & fifty one Dollars. 25 Appointt. of Commissioners of the Board of Treasury— 26 directing Secy, in the War Office to furnish three hundred men directed to be raised by the Act of this day to be in readiness to march when & to what place or places the Commissrs. for negotiating with the Indians may direct 27 — that the Supt. take order for purchasing & transmitting the Articles necessary for the Indian Treaties—Copy of the List of those Articles annexed—that he furnish such additional Articles not exceeding 4000 Dollars as the Commissrs. may direct. 28 To contract with persons for furnishing 60,000 rations. Making any two of the Commissioners being a majority competent to proceed upon the business of the Com mission. 29 Copy of Resolve of June 4t Comtee. of the States relative to Accounts of M. Beaumarchais directing Supert to transmit to Mr. Bar clay Copy of the refusal of Mr Carabasse, Agent for the Sieur Beau marchais to deliver to the Agent of the U. S. certain goods charged to sd. States. 30 Sent to Mr Thomson in Philaa. Thirty printed Copies of the Instruc tions to the Commissioners appointed to settle the Accounts of each State with the United States &c. 31 2 for each State 4 for the Office of Finance Transmitted from the Office 2 Copies of the above to the Pay Mas ter Genl. Sent to the War Office Copy of resolves of the 1st. Inst.— recommending to the State of Virginia to instruct their Auditors ap- pointd. to settle with the line of the Army &c. Instructions to pay mas ter General. Hezh. Whitmore’s Accot to be Credited with 873 Dol lars—that the several States be Credited in their Accts, with U.S. for specie advanced to Officers & Soldiers of Coni. Army. Resolutions of June 2d & 3d for discharging old Troops & raising new Forces—di recting Secretary in the War Office to furnish 300 men directed to be raised by the Act of this day (June 3d) to be in readiness to march when and to what place or places the Commissrs. for negotiating with the Indians may direct. Sent to Mr. Thomson to be forwarded 4 Copies of the Resolution of the 3d Inst for raising new Forces—for Connecticut 1, New York 1, New Jersey 1, Pensylvania 1. Transmitted to the State of South Carolina— Copy of Motion agreed to in Congress June 2d 1784 That a Copy of the Note of the Minister of the United Netherlands requesting said State to make enquiry into the truth of the Facts stated therein & to transmit the result thereof to the Congress at their next meeting. 32
