June 4, 1784 667 The Reports of the Grand Committee on the Penobscot Expedi tion, & on the extant Bills of the old Emissions, are contained in the said Paper No 8. 5 The first marked E was passed nemine con, in the Committee; & the last marked F was passed by six States in the Com mittee, Massachusetts being one of the five that voted against it. In deed We think the first paragraph of it, which is intended to annul the Resolution of Congress of March 1780, so far as it authorizes the States to charge the Money brot in to be sunk pursuant to that Re solve, at 40 for 1, to be highly inconsistent with good Faith & Justice, & to require the serious Attention of the Legislature. The Pressure of important Business previous to the Adjour[n]ment put it out of our Power to obtain a Decision of Congress on either of those Reports, or to obtain one from the Grand Committe on the Subject of Bounties—indeed they had this Matter long under their Consideration & appeared to be in Favour of the Proposition con tained in No 10, but disinclined to No 11 & 12. Having thus stated the proceedings of Congress on the Remon strance of the Legislature, We again recur to their Instructions of Oc tober 28th, which pointed to the Abolition of the Office of Superin tendant of Finance. This was an Object very desirable, but difficult to attain. It is however happily accomplished so far, as that the SuperIn tendant of Finance is to be superceded by a Board of Treasury on or before the 10th of November next, as will appear by the Ordnance No 13; 6 No 14 containing the Appointment of the Commissioners. 7 Another object of the honble Legislature in those Instructions, was to prevent the Expenditure of any Part of the publick Money for pur poses different from those to w[hich] it was particularly appropriated. To enable the Legislature to ascertain whether the Appropriations have been punctually complyed with, We obtained the Resolution be forementioned marked C in No 8, & have applied to the Committee of the States for the Copies of the Statement & Expenditures therein mentioned, 8 to be transmitted to the Legislature as soon as the Super Intendant of Finance, shall render them, agreably to his Intentions signified to Congress. A third object of the Instructions, was to obtain the earliest Infor mation from Time to Time, of the proceedings of Congress. To ac complish this, the Journals are constantly printed, & the Secretary in forms us, they are regularly transmitted, so that We presume, no one thing has been transacted of a publick Nature in Congress, without an early Communication thereof to the Legislature. In Consequence of the Removals of Congress, the Journals of the last Year are only printed to some Time in September last & part of those Journals being printed in Philadelphia, & part of them here, both shall be for warded when finished.
