668 June 4, 1784 The Letter of the 18th of February respecting Ox Teams We think requires no other Answer than the Resolution of Congress marked D in No 15: 9 & We flatter ourselves that their proceedings in No 16 & 17 will accomplish the Ends proposed by the Legislature in their Instruc tions of the 18th of March, respecting Vouchers lost & Obstructions in settling the publick Accounts. 10 The Letter of the 27 of May, We received a few Hours before the ad journment of Congress on the 3d Instant, And pressed as they were with a Variety of Concerns, We prevailed on them to consider the Peti tion of the Legislature & to issue the Notification thereon, contained in No 18, the Receipt of which it will be necessary to acknowledge to the Secretary of Congress. 11 Having particularly noticed the Communications received from the Honble Legislature, We have further to inform them, that the Resolution in No 19 contains the Discharge of all the Troops re tained in Service after the Conclusion of the War except 80 Men for guarding publick Stores. 12 We endeavored to obtain an Act for exon erating the States of New Hamshire & Massachusetts from the extra Expence incurred by those States in Consequence of the Detention of part of their Lines after the 3d of November last; but notwithstanding the Justice of the Demand was generally admitted, Congress could not be prevailed on to comply with it, unless We would consent to a peace Establishment. This was repeatedly & strenuously urged, but being principled against it, We in Conjunction with the other N England States gave it a vigorous Opposition for the following, amongst other Reasons. First. We conceived that the Confederation had not expressly given to Congress such powers, & therefore they could not exercise them, con sistently with the 2d Article of the foederal Constitution. Secondly. We were clearly of opinion, that when the Confederation was ratified, the Legislature had no Intention to grant to Congress, the Power of raising a standing Army in Time of Peace: more espe cially as the same Construction which will enable Congress to raise a few Men for a short period may extend their Powers indefinitely, both as to the Number of Men & Term of Inlistment. Thirdly. We veiwed the Measure as being altogether unnecessary, be cause the United States being remote from Nations which have stand ing Armies, may by design [ating] the Militia, the constitutional, & only safe Defence of republican Governments, save the grievous Ex pence of a formidable peace Establishment, which would inevitably ensue, if once a precedent for exercising so dangerous a power by Congress should be admitted. Fourthly. We were fully persuaded, even If it was necessary that Con gress, for guarding Posts & Magazines in Time of Peace should have a Power to raise a few Troops, they ought to be limited by an express Ar-
