670 June 4, 1784 our Letter to the Legislature with sundry papers accompanying the same from No. 1 to 21th inclusive.” Revolutionary War Letterbooks, M-Ar. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Annapolis June 4th. 1784. Yesterday Evening the President of Congress in conformity to the act of the 26th of April pronounced Congress to be adjourned untill the 3rd of November next then to meet at Trentown. As we have ever doubted the Constitutional propriety of this Mea sure, and the right of Congress to invest their President with a power which the Confederation seems to have reserved to the body, we op posed it originally. 1 And when the period arrived at which the Act was to be carryed into execution we declined giving a Constitutional sanc tion to the removal. It was not thought expedient to change the vote of the 26, & for the seven States who originally voted for the President to adjourn Con gress; again to adjourn themselves. The reason of this may be discov ered by a reference to the Journals. The right of Rhode Island to sit & vote in Congress after the 7th of May had but two States in its favour, whilst five States were decided against it. We had not only objected to their Continuance under such Circumstances to sit in Congress, but had actually entered a protest on the Journals.2 Without their vote an adjournment at this day to Trentown could not be procured. And the former vote empowering the President al though made at a time when the Credentials of Rhode Island were in disputable we considered as illegal & void. On this subject we beg leave to add some further Observations. Early this Year it was considered by Congress as an indispensable duty to examine the rights of Members to Seats under their Credentials and the Confederation. Accordingly a Committee of Qualifications had been long since appointed, & in consequence of their report a Delegation from Dellaware were adjudged unauthorized to sit, and re tired from Congress. 3 A question of a similar Nature arose on the Cre dentials of the Members from Rhode Island, and though two States only were in favour of their right, they persevered to continue in Con gress & to act as Members. We were therefore reduced to the alterna tive either of impeding the public business at a Moment rendered crit ical from a variety of important Subjects which lay before Congress & the short interval which was to precede the time fixed for adjourn ment, or of continuing to act with Men whose seats we considered in some Measure usurped, and whose votes we thought it our duty to ob ject to as vitious. Under this embarrasment the Measure which pre sented itself to us as most expedient was to enter our protest against
