June 16,1784 685 I am Sir with Esteem & regard, Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman P.S. As you are one of the Petitioners I suppose you will be admitted to appear for the whole without any Special authority from the others. Roger Sherman RC (PWbW: Sherman Papers). 1 Actually June 28 not the 29th. For Congress’ January 23 resolution setting “the 4 Monday in June next” for the appearance of agents to select judges “for determining the private right of soil” in the contested Wyoming Valley territory, see Charles Thom son to John Dickinson and Jonathan Trumbull, January 26, 1784. 2 See Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:400—405. See also Committee of Congress Report January 21, 1784, note. s See JCC, 27:526-27. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear Mr Adams Philadelphia 16th June 1784 Here I am after a six Month Session at Annapolis, on my Way to Massachusetts, & altho my Opposition to the same System in America, which You have opposed in Europe, has perhaps rendered me equally obnoxious here to the aristocratic Party, yet I assure You the Pleasure resulting from a Reflection on the Measures adopted by Congress, overballances every trifling Consideration of the Loss of Friendships, which being for the most part ostensible, are generally applied as In centives to our Rewards of Servility, Baseness & Treachery, but rarely if ever of Fidelity, Honor or Patriotism. Your Colleague Mr Jefferson will deliver You the Arrangements of Congress for commercial Negotiations, & I flatter myself You will find in him an able, faithful, & impartial Minister. On You & him We place our Reliance, & if You can preserve the Confidence & Friendship of each other, I am sure your Services will merit the highest approbation of your Country. We have had great Difficulty in compleating this Business, & once had a negative put on the whole, but at length succeeded even to Una nimity: except in the point which I shall presently mention. I believe nothing but our Session at Annapolis could have accomplished these Measures, for the Anti American System was to have no more commer cial Treaties; to amuse the commercial Interest by issuing Commissions & giving Instructions to our Ministers to form projects of such Treaties, to be reversed & altered by Congress, & then, to make such alterations as the other contracting Parties never could agree to; by which Means our Trade would have been confined to one or two Nations & have been generally in an unsetded, confused, & unprofitable state, but now
