686 June 16,1784 our Ministers having not only Power to project, but to sign the Treaties, & to extend them to almost every Nation in Europe. I think our Com merce must soon flourish in an extraordinary Manner, & that We shall have every Market abroad bidding on each other for our produce & un derselling each other to put off their own Commodities. Great Pains were taken to continue Mr F n 1 in office by appointing him Secre tary to the Commission; but this was opposed openly on this principle, that the D r was not only a near relation to the other, but also his best Friend & patron, having written to Congress Letters expressing a Desire that he might even be appointed Minister for Sweden; that it was well known You & the Doctor were not on the most friendly Terms; that the Friendship between him & his nephew would naturally induce the latter to watch every Word & Movement of yours, to view them with a Jealous Eye, & to make such Representations or Misrepresentations as would increase the Uneasiness & have a Tendency to interrupt, if not to defeat the negotiations; & that no such Inconvenience could probably result from the Appointment of the other Gendemen in Nomination. These Arguments finally prevailed & Colo Humphreys was elected. I think Your Friend the D r, when he finds that You are at the Head of the Commission, that his G d Son has not only no Prospect of promotion, but has been actually superseded, & that the Treaties which he himself began to negotiate are now in the Department of the three Commissioners, I say, I think he will have no Reason to Suppose that his Conduct is much approved. Indeed We have not been reserved in Con gress with respect to the Doctor, having declared in so many Words, that so far advanced in Years & so tractable is he, as that it has become a mat ter of Indifference to Us, whether We employ him or the C 1 de V—- —s to negotiate our Concerns at the C——t of V s , 2 We have left a Committee of the States at Annapolis, & Mr Dana is the Delegate from Massachusetts. I have desired him to send the Jour nals of the last Session when printed, which I suppose will be the Case, the beginning of the next Month. This Measure, & the Information You will receive from Mr Jefferson, renders it unnecessary to enter into a Detail of the publick proceedings of Congress. With Respect to the affairs in general of the U States, they are some what embarrassed, as it is reasonable to Suppose, after such a long & Expensive War in the Bowells of the Country; the public accounts, & the publick Debt are the greatest Objects of attention. It is necessary to liquidate the first in Order to do justice to the States as well as to Individuals, & Commissioners are appointed for each State to accom plish this purpose. Indeed they have been obstructed for some Time past, in Consequence of the Occurrence of Cases not provided for by any Resolutions of Congress, that the Matter has been taken up & such Measures have been adopted as I hope will answer the Purpose.
