June 17,1784 687 As to the Debt, the Arrangements of the Treasury Department under the Super Intendance of a single Person has been such an Ob ject of Jealousy & Distrust, as to prevent the Success of Measures for funding the Debt; but after the 10th of Novr next the powers of the Fi nancier are to be executed by a Board of Treasury consisting of Mr Jennifer formerly a Member of Congress from Maryland, Mr Elsworth of Connecticut & Mr Denning of N York: & I flatter myself that the States will take the necessary Steps for funding the Debt: but We have a great prospect of sinking a considerable part of it by the Western Territory, as soon as a Negotiation can take place with the Indians, (for which purpose Commissioners are now appointed) & the Land Office can be opened. A great Alteration must necessarily take Place from the establishment of Funds, in the Confidence of our Creditors both at Home & abroad; & whilst the payment of the Interest will be thus facilitated, & the Debt be constantly reducing by the Sale of Lands, the Burthen of Tax will I hope become still lighter every Day, by the Increase of our Fishery & Agriculture (which have been greatly diminished by the War) & also by the Increase of the Advantages of Commerce, When You shall [have} formed the Treaties—by these We have the prospect of obtaining so much more for our produce & giv ing so much less for Articles imported, that the Ballance of Trade, which being now against Us drains the Continent of Specie, will be then in Favour & render Money plenty, & the Collection of Taxes of Consequence more easy. You will find by the Journals that Upon the petition of Massachusetts a Day is assigned by Congress for the Institution of a federal Court to determine the Claims of that State to the Territory claimed also by N York, within the Charter Boundaries of the State first mentioned. I can only add my warmest Wishes that You may have a happy Inter view with Mrs Adams & such of your Family as may embark with her for Europe, & that with them You may enjoy Health & Happiness & return to Your Friends in America. I remain, my dear Sir, with the sincerest affection & Respect Your Friend & hum serv, E Gerry RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 That is, William Temple Franklin, grandson of Benjamin Franklin. 2 That is, the comte de Vergennes at the Court of Versailles. Francis Dana to Elbridge Gerry My worthy Friend Annapolis June 17th. 1782 [1784] The last post bro’t me your’s of the 11th inst. from Philadelphia. I am glad you had so agreable a journey from hence, and so good an op-
