688 June 17, 1784 portunity of entertaining yourself on the way with reflecting upon the congressional scenes; You have acted one of the principal parts in them, & cannot but derive much solid satisfaction from this reflection, “that what has been done, is pro bono publico, well done." The inter ested views, absurd projects, prejudices, & partialities, of which you speak, are so many irresistable arguments against your conclusion, viz. that your own happiness can never be promoted by partaking in the politics of such an extensive republican government &c. Reflect, my dear Sir, again upon these things, and you will be convinced, that altho a Man shou’d not be able to effect much positive good, in such a het erogeneous a body, yet if he can prevent mischief, ’tis his duty to strug gle hard to do it: And what it is our duty to do, that upon due reflec tion we shall find productive of our happiness. But you are out of your element when you are out of politicks: to talk of making pleasure your business, is to attempt a violence upon your disposition. You have not that levity of mind which is alone fitted for the pursuits of pleasure. Be yourself Man, and you will be happy. When I seem to interdict to you pleasurable pursuits, remember I do not mean to oppose an inkling, or as the French say the penchant, you seem to have to Matrimony. No, quite the contrary, I wou’d encourage it by every means in my power. This is a duty you still owe to God & your Country. “Take unto thyself a wife, & obey the ordinance of God.” But look well to your choice, in that indeed is involv’d much happiness or much misery. I have com municated your advice to P upon this subject, & endeavoured to enforce it upon her. She wonders what we mean, or wou’d affect to be at a loss about it. Tell Mrs. C & Miss Polly that I shou’d certainly have done myself the pleasure of waitg. upon them: but Crosby never told me any thing of them till I had left Philadelphia & I knew not where to find them. I will do as 1 ought to do, upon my return. Pray bear in mind my bank Bills. I shall soon be in want of Cash. Colo. Blanchard & myself have been constantly engaged at our writ ing tables, ever since you left us, & have still many days labour of that sort before us. You may see the fruits of it, when I shall see you again. I have had a letter from Mrs. Dana. It is probable you will not find her at home if you go to Cambridge on Commencement week. She proposes to spend it at Hingham in Genl. Lincoln’s family. Shou’d this be the case, you must favour us with a visit on my return. Which I still flatter myself will be in all July, or the beginning of Augt. There seems to be an apprehension generally prevailg. here, that we shall not make up a Committee of the States. I am very indifferent about it, because I am satisfied the public Interests will receive no prejudice from the circum stance of their not meeting. I shall endeavour shordy after the day of our adjournment, if we have not a sufficient number to proceed to business, to push on an adjournment to Trenton, to sometime in Septr. We can consider the legality of this measure afterwards, whether our
