690 June 17, 1784 April 2 and shall embrace the earliest opportunity of communicating it to the Comee of the States. I beg leave to congratulate you on the re covery of your health. I hope it will continue to mend. I write as an ad venture, having reason to believe from your last that you are now on your passage. Should that be the case I wish you a prosperous voyage & a happy return to yr native country. I have to inform you that on the 7 of last Month Congress elected Mr Jay Secy for foreign Affairs & appointed Mr Jefferson in addition to Mr Adams & Mr Franklin for the purpose of negotiating treaties of com merce with the commercial powers of Europe. Should an accommodat ing spirit take place in the british council an intercourse between the two countries may be established on principles mutually advantageous. But should the contrary prevail, we must submit as you observe to “have a treaty of Commerce by act of Parliament on our part & Acts of Con gress on the other.” In the meanwhile measures are taking by the sev eral legislatures of these states to be prepared for either event and to vest Congress with powers to meet every restriction of the British Parlia ment with similar restrictions on our part. I have the honor to be Sr. Yr. most Obedt & most humble servt C T LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 For this letter, which was read in Congress on May 31, see PCC, item 89, fols. 341-44, item 185, 3:102. A signed duplicate is also in the Thomson Papers, DLC. 2 This letter is in the Thomson Papers, DLC. Jonathan Blanchard to Elbridge Gerry My dear Sir Annapolisjune 18th. 1784. Your letter to my Friend Mr. Dana of the 12th inst. from Philadel phia, came Safe. I am much Obliged for your kind remembrance of me. You will be so good as to Accept in return, my best Wishes for a Continuence of your health. I am not insensible of the vast Fategue you have undergone since the commencement of the War, it however must be a pleasing reflec tion, that the Independce. of our Common Country is Obtained; and that you have been a considerable Spoke in the Political Wheel. From a large Scale, it may not be amiss to view our Selves, on a less, from being at the head of the Federal, so I hope you will very Soon be at the head of a Fathered Governmt., and Whether the institution be natural, or unnatural, I shall not trouble my head to dispute, but that it is convenient, you may rest assured; & the little differences happen ing in the day, are always made up by 10 or 11 at Night, & Matters then TjawgEasy.
