June 24,1784 697 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dear Sir, Philadelphia 21 June 1784 1 I am sorry to find there is likely to be any delay in printing the jour nal. I want that work compleated before the meeting of Congress. Mr Dunlap is at present out of town, as soon as he returns I will speak to him on the subject & press him to send down another hand. The Office of finance wants two dozen of the journal of last session from 1 Monday in Novr 1783, and two dozen of the printed resolu tions for settling accounts. Please to send them under cover to me, the last by the return of the post and the former three, four, five or six at a time by every post till the whole are sent on. My Compliments to Mr Remson & Mr Kilty. I am Sr., Your humble Servt. C LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 This day Thomson also sent the following letter to Henry Remsen, the other clerk in the secretary’s office. “I forgot to take your rect. for the money I advanced you. However it is of no great importance. The Superintendt. expects soon to compleat his engagements & to quit the office. I think it will be best to send up with the quarterly account, the beginning of next Month, your Account of contingent expences and apply for a further sum, such as you shall judge necessary for removing the Office & defraying the expences that may arise before the next meeting of Congress. If the account and vouchers are sent to me, I will take care to have them settled.” Ibid. Georgia Delegates to John Houstoun Sir Philadelphia 24th June 1784 We arrived in this place the 12 Inst, and found Congress had ad- journd untill October, and the Committe of the States until the 26th Inst. Of course we are deprived of the Means of procuring Informa tion from the fountain Head. We hear Congress recommend that each State keep up such a representation that there will be no possi bility of a Vote being lost and that the recommendation has already been forwarded to each State. They Still expect the States will grant the Five per Ct. impost. Pennsylvania & Jersey have undertaken to pay of the Interest due on Loan Office Certificates that have been in the possession of their own Citizens at least twelve Months prior to the passing of the Act and no others, not attending to what office the Certificates were Issued from—Jersey to pay of the Interest Issued Thirty Thousand Pounds at the same time layd a Tax of Forty Thousand Pounds. The paper is re ceived in Taxes but no Tender in Law.
