698 June 24, 1784 We are of opinion from the different conversations we had with per sons here and the observations we have made that it would be exceed ingly politic in Georgia to pass an Act to prohibit the export of Live Oak from the State. The reasons are so obvious that we think it unnec essary to enlarge. As Mr Houstoun setts off immediately from this place for Annapolis to be ready to meet the Committee of the States he will be then able to write particularly and from Authority. We are Sir, With all due respect, Your most humble Servants, Wm Gibbons Wm. Houstoun RC (PHi: Dreer Members of Congress Collection). Written by Gibbons and signed by Gibbons and Houstoun. Samuel Hardy to Benjamin Harrison Annapolis 24th. June [17] 84. Sir. I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency that a letter from Doctr Franklin of the 31st of March last announces the Arrival of Colo Har- mar with the ratification of the definitive treaty. 1 The exchange had not then taken place; but as the failure on our part arose from a concur rence of Circumstances not to be avoided; our Ministers seem to appre hend no difficulty from its not arriving within the time stipulated. The last dispatches give us no information of the commercial sys tem which Great Britain will probably adopt. It is presumable that their Attention for some time past has been so engrosed by the elec tions which have taken place in Consequence of the dissolution of Parliment that most other business has slept. And after they are over as a considerable time must elapse before the Complexion of the new house is studied, & an Administration formed any opinion at present of the Measures they will pursue can be founded only on Conjecture. It is said that the elections have been much in favour of Government; if this is the case I think it probable that Lord Shelburn & Pitt will be at the head of the Administration & that we may expect some liberal regulations respecting their trade with Amerrica. But however desir able such an event may be, or however well founded the expectation; our situation would be unfortunate indeed if we relyed for it on the Caprice of a British Minister. My hope I confess is placed only in the Wisdom & firmness of our own Councils. And should European Com mercial restrictions have had a tendency to produce something like a system of Counteraction on our part, & to raise a national spirit in our
