June 24, 1784 699 country I shall forever esteem them blessings. It begins to be time for us to act like a Sovereign as well as a free people & by a temperate & steady self respect, to command that of other Nations. Under this im pression I contemplate with a satisfaction not to be expressed, the foundation which I think the Legislature have laid this session for strengthening the foederal Union & making us respectable abroad— For to this & this only do I look for the preservation of that freedom which we have been fortunate enough to establish. I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency that Mr Adams has sent over the sketch of a treaty proposed by the King of Prussia to the Ministers of Amerrica. 2 And that Baron Hemmelin has arrived at Philadelphia from his Swedish Majesty with letters of Credence which he is at liberty to use, provided the United states send a Minister to that Court. 3 Nor can I close my communications without mentioning to your Excellency a subject which you may perhaps think worthy the Attention of the Legislature. You have I doubt not heard of the Assault which was made some time since on the person of Mr Marbois by a Frenchman of the name of Longchamps. A Complaint was made to Congress of the violation of the law of nations, & they immediately passed a resolution directing the Executives of the different states to issue their proclamations for apprehending the Offender. 4 He was taken & committed to the Goal of Phila, & before this time has had his trial though the result I have not yet heard. By a private letter which I have received, I have every reason to believe that the French & Dutch Ministers are much dissatis- fyed that Congress did not recommend it to the states in the most pointed terms to pass laws correspondent with those in Europe for the security of foreign Ministers, & the protection of their persons, Houses & families from violence & insult. The Minister of France has before this taken his departure for Eu rope by the permission of his Sovereign—And Mr Vanberkel & Mr Marbois I am informed threaten to leave the state of Pensylvania unless the decision on Longchamps Case should give them full satisfaction. Should you think this Communication worthy the ear of the Legis lature; and should they anticipate the recommendation of Congress & the wishes of a Court which I confess I look up to with great respect; I shall esteem myself fortunate in having made it. But should it not be the Case I view it as a Subject of some Moment, & under that impres sion it becomes my duty to transmit it to your Excellency. With every sentiment of respect, I have the honour to be, Your Ex- cellencys Most Obedient serv, S Hardy RC (NN: Emmet Collection, no. 1079). 1 See Charles Thomson to Benjamin Franklin, June 18, note 2.
