July 2, 1784 709 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dr Sir Philajuly2. 1784 I have not had the pleasure of receiving a line from you since that Brought by Mr Patton. In my letter of the 21 June I desired you to send me for the Superint. Office two doz of the Journals of last session and two doz of the printed resolutions for settling accounts. The reso lutions I expected by last post and the journals a few at a time by every post till the whole are sent. Have the committee met? how do they go on? 1 Is there any prospect of their moving soon to the northward? or has Annapolis still such charms that they cannot leave it? What progress is the printer making? I enclose you two of Mr Bradfords papers & three of Claypole’s 2 Bayley has not sent his last nor has Hall sent me one gazzette. 3 My Compliments to Mr Remsen & Mr Kilty. I am Dr Sr yrs. CT LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 Thomson made the same inquiry in a brief letter to North Carolina delegate Richard Dobbs Spaight this day. “I hope you got down safe and found all your friends well & in better humor than when you parted. I am anxious to hear in what temper the comee. has met, whether they are more inclined to accommodation or are still infected with the old leaven and disposed to torment each other by continuing their session at Annapolis. “A vessel is just arrived in six weeks from London. I have not yet heard what news she brings. If there is any thing material I will inform you in my next. I enclose you two or three of the last papers. My compliments to mr Read and all friends.” Ibid. 2 That is, Thomas Bradford’s Pennsylvania Journal and David C. Claypoole’s Pennsylva nia Packet. At the foot of this letterbook entry, Thomson wrote: “Bradford N. 1707, 1708. Claypoole N. 1716, 1717, 1719.” 3 That is, Francis Bailey’s Freeman's Journal and David Hall’s and William Sellers’, Penn sylvania Gazette. Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy Dear Sir, Philada July 2. 1785 [i.e., 1784] I should have sent you some account of Longchamps trial, but you will have it better from Mr Wilson & Mr Attorney general 1 who are gone down to meet the committee. I think it will be proper to send a minute detail of this matter to our ministers in Paris to prevent any disagreeable consequences. For this purpose I have requested Mr At torney general to be careful in preserving the correspondence that has passed between him and Mr Marbois on the subject as well as notes relative thereto. When he returns I will call upon him & draw
