710 July 2,1784 up a short account, which I shall have the honor of submitting to your inspection. I have had a slight touch of a disorder which usually at tacks me at this season of the year. It has left me weak but I hope I shall soon recover. Please to make my respects to the Comee. With great esteem & respect I am Sr your most obt & most h Ser, CT P.S. I send you the first 3 numbers of the herald, 2 a paper which has just made its appearance in this City. LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 That is, William Bradford, who with James Wilson was representing Pennsylvania in its controversy with Connecticut, which had been scheduled for a hearing on June 28, for which see Edward Hand to Catharine Hand, June 29, note 2. 2 That is, Charles Cist’s American Herald, and General Advertiser. Edward Hand to John Dickinson Sir, Annapolis July 5th 1784. Your Excellency will have been informed by Messieurs Bradford and Wilson that on the 28th ultimo Six States only were represented in the Committee of the States, and that the Persons claiming private Right of Soil within the Territory lately in Controversy between the States of Pennsylvania and Connecticut, by virtue of Grants from the latter did not appear. 1 I have the Honour to acquaint Your Excellency, that Del egates from North Carolina, Georgia and New Jersey have since at tended, the latter this day, and that we are now a Committee capable of doing Business. 2 The States represented, are, Newhampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Car olina and Georgia. I shall esteem myself happy in receiving the Commands of Council from time to time and have the honor in the mean time of keeping them regularly informed of every Thing material which passes in the Committee of the States. With the greatest Respect I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys most obedient and most humble Servant, Edward Hand. Tr (PHarH: RG 27). 1 See Hand to Catharine Hand, June 29, note 2. 2 See JCC, 27:567-69.
