July 5,1784 711 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dear Sir, Philada. 5 July 1784 1 I reed, on Friday last your letter & packet of the 28 June. As soon as the quarterly account passes the forms of Office which I hope will be tomorrow or next day, I shall take care to remit your Salaries. I think with you that it will be best to suspend the sending the journals for the Office of finance until they are compleat and hope you will urge the printer to be as expeditious as possible in compleating them. I thank you for the copy of the entries on Saturday & Monday and shall be much obliged if you will continue to furnish me regularly. I think the entries will read better without the word “having” between “States” & “Met.” You will therefore please to strike it out. My compliments to Mr Remsen & Mr Kilty. I am Sr, Yrs., CT.2 [PS.] I send Claypole’s paper N 1720, 1721, Baileys 167. LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 This day Thomson also wrote the following brief letter to Henry Remsen. “On Friday last I received your letter of the 26 June with your Account of contingent expences which I carried next day to the Auditor and hope to have settled to morrow or next day. I presume you have sent your account of Salary to some other as I did not find it inclosed. Should that not be the case, as the Superint[endent] expect, to quit his Office by the first of next Month, 1 think it might be well to send in your account that it may be paid, before he retires. If it is sent to me, I will take the necessary steps for hav ing it paid & remitted agreeably to your Order.” Ibid., fol. 14. 2 Thomson also wrote the following brief letter to Bankson on July 9, with which he enclosed five issues of the Pennsylvania Gazette (“N. 2817-18-19, 21-22”) and one of the Packet (No. 1723). “I have received your letter of the 2d And am sorry to hear the printer goes on slow. I hope you press him. By next post I shall send down the money for your quarters Salary. I had hopes of sending it by this but it was delayed by the other accounts of the civil list not being brought in. I wish to hear what prospect of forming a comee. for my own part I have little hopes.” Ibid., fol. 15. Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy Dear Sir, Philada. July 5. 1784 On Friday last I received your favour enclosing a bill of Exchange for 333X dollars on Mr J. J. Bogert which I presentd and got accepted on the same day. As soon as it is paid I will remit you the amount in bank notes. 1 I hope before this a sufficient number of members have assembled to form a Comee. for business In which case I would beg leave to sug-
