July 15, 1784 722 usual Policy to suffer her Essential Interests to be determined on in a Body where she is not represented. 2 North Carolina have by an act of the 4th of June ceded to the U.S. all her right title and Claim to the Territory west of the Apalachian Mountains—passed the Impost act and that allowing congress the power of regulating foreign Trade with some others of inferior import. 3 A young Gent whom I have seen here shews so many traits of the parent as woud have rendered him fairly Cognoscible [as?] Your Acquaintance (I speak for myself) had he not been Announced as your Son. It is not usual to Conclude a P.S. with Compliments far removed from the sweet Enjoyments of Domestic Life. If I who now actually support on my shoulders the Ninth part of the weight of the U.S. can write so degagee and sans Ceremonie what have I a right to expect from You who are safe on Your Little Island nescio quid Meditans Nugarum et totus in illisA Tr (DLC: Edmund C. Burnett Collection). Endorsed: “Original in possession of Charles Mecum, Esq., of Salem, N.J. [co. 1933].” 1 Date conjectured by Burnett, perhaps from Ellery’s August 2 reply, a transcript of which (also from the Mecum Collection) is in the Burnett Collection, DLC. 2 Rhode Island nevertheless did remain unrepresented, as Ellery was the state’s repre sentative on the Committee of the States and did not return to his seat in Congress until November 30, 1784. 3 See the preceding entry, note. 4 “Musing on some trifle or other and wholly intent thereon.” Horace, Satires, Epistles, and Ars Poetica, trans. H. Rushton Fairclough (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1932), Satire 9.2-3. Edward Hand to John Dickinson Sir, Annapolis 15 th July 1784. On the 5th Inst. I had the honor to inform your excellency that nine States were then represented in the Committee of the States & on the 12th to inclose the copy of a resolution of the Committee, on the petition of Robt Shewell, relative to the Amiable Elizabeth. For the information of Council, I have now the Honor to send Copies of the Cessions of territory made by the States of Connecticut and North Carolina to the U.S. 1 That of Connecticut I am pursuaded amuse you. It is a doubt with me whether the U.S. will gain much by that of North Carolina. North Carolina has moreover passed the impost and supplimentary revenue acts, acceeded to the proposed alteration in the 8th Article of the Confederation, Authorized Congress to regulate the trade of that State with foreign Nations, and adopted other recommendations, 2 all of which your Excellency will be more particularly informed, by copies of the several acts, which shall be forwarded so soon as I can obtain,
