July 15, 1784 723 or have time to take them myself. The Act of the Legislature of South Carolina, granting the impost, is also in possession of the Committee of the States, 3 by the next post you will receive a copy of it. You will re ceive the Copy of a letter from Brigadier General Clark, on Indian af- fars, & the answer of the Committee of States thereto. 4 Likewise a Copy of the petition of the Legislature of Massachusetts for a federal Court, to determine a disputed territorial claim between that State and the State of New York. 5 Since the 5th additional members have at tended. With respect I have the Honor to be, &c &c. E. Hand 6 Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Connecticut’s January 8, 1784, act of cession, which was read and referred to com mittee May 25, is in PCC, item 75, fols. 81-84. The North Carolina act of June 2, submit ted to Congress July 14 (JCC, 27:586), is in PCC, item 76, fols. 63-68. 2 See JCC, 27:585-86. 3 This South Carolina act was laid before Congress this day. JCC, 27:587-88. 4 See Charles Thomson to the Indian Commissioners, July 16, 1784. 5 See JCC, 27:547-50. 6 On the following page of these Hand transcripts the following note pertaining to this letter appears: “July 19th. Forwarded under cover to the president, copies of the Acts of the N. Carolina, & S. Carolina Legislative refered to in my letter of the 15th, also copies of letters from Messrs. B. Franklin & D Hartley & several acts of the State of Virginia. E.H.” Edward Hand to Jasper Yeates Dear Yeates Annapolis 15th July 1784 I have made several enquiries but have not yet had any Satisfactory Acct, of Mrs. Vaughan, tho I have heard of a person who it is said can give me every necessary information. I expect to see him in a day or two he is now at Baltimore. Our Committee Consists of Nine members Only. We must all say one way to do any thing. North & South Carolina have Acceded to the Impost. North Carolina has also agreed to the Supplementary Revenue, Ceded her territory westward of the Alle- ganey Mountains, with some reservations, consented to the proposed Alteration in the 8th Article of the Confederation, & to allow Con gress to regulate her Trade with Foreign Nations. We have had a series of dry but tolerably cool weather. The Planters of Tobacco & Corn begin to cry out for rain. I spent Saturday Evening & the whole of Sunday last at Mr. Sami. Galloways where I met a very Friendly & po lite reception. Mr. Galloway himself is in a weakly State. I yesterday wrote to Kitty by Robert. 1 I have not had a line from home since I left you. Please present my love to Mrs. Yeates, & the Family. Adieu! Dear Yeates, very Affectionably yours, Edwd. Hand
