728 July 17,1784 Mr Prager also bore Letters from Doctor Franklin and several oth ers of the Principal American Characters in Europe to the Gentlemen of Greatest Weight in Philadelphia. Permit me to Introduce this Gen tleman to your Acquaintance and to request for him that Polite atten tion that all Strangers of Merit ever receive at Mount Vernon. The object of my friend in Visiting Virginia after paying his respects to Yourself is to View with a Correct Mercantile Eye Your Ports, Har bours, Warehouses &ca, as he has established an Extensive Concern in Philada. & may probably form Connexions in some of the Neighbour ing States. As the Cridit of Mr Pragers House is unlimitted and undoubtedly good their Establishment in the United States Cannot but be of the greatest Commercial benefit. I shall offer no appology for the Liberty I take in this Introduction because I am sure it affords you pleasure to see men of Merit & Con sideration arrive & Settle in these States. Do me the favour to present my best respects to Mrs Washington & believe that it will always afford me the greatest pleasure to render you every service in my power in My present and every other situation. I am with the greatest respect & regard, Sir, Your Most obliged & most Obedient Servant, Jacob Read 2 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 That is, Mark Prager, a Jewish merchant from England who soon established the firm of Pragers & Co. in Philadelphia. 2 Read also wrote the following brief letter to Robert Morris on July 19. “The Inclosed Extracts of a Letter from my friend Col Nich[ola]s Eveleigh of Charleston So. Carolina to Which I pray your Attention must plead the only appology I have to offer for tres passing to[o] much on your time, Which I know to be at all times precious & fully occu pied. I will only add a request that you will please favour me with An Answer to My friends Queries as soon as Convenient as I Must write him by the first Opportunity.” Mc Cullough Collection, VtU. Edward Hand to John Pierce Sir Annapolis 19 th July 1784 Your two letters of the 11th Instant to the Committee of the States, 1 informing, “That the officers lately deranged at West Point, after they had received the two months pay Voted them by Congress took into their possession and divided among themselves, two Thousand, two hundred & Seventy six dollars & 57/90 which was placed in the hands of the Pay-Master of the American Regiment for the Subsistence of the Regimt. as it became due—that Doctor Heart, over & above his dividend of the Above Sum had refused to deliver to the pay-Master One hundred & forty Seven & an half dollars of the public money he
