July 20,1784 731 Although I can’t entertain you with any of our doings, yet it may be acceptable to you to learn that N. Carolina has granted the Impost, the supplementary Revenues acceeded to the proposed alteration in the 8th article of the Confederation, directed the time of service of the Delegates to commence agreeably to that, vested Congress with a Power to regulate Trade with foreign Nations, and finally ceded all the Territory they claimed West of the Apalachian or Allegany Mountain lying between that their Northern and Southern boundary, and the Mississippi. All this, I think, is well done. South Carolina has granted the Impost, but not the Supplementary Revenue; nor the power to regulate Trade with foreign Nations, but only with the West Indies: this last is an act of some standing, & was intended as a retaliation for the Royal Proclamation. Virginia has granted the Impost, and vested Congress with a power to regulate Trade with foreign Nations, hath acceeded to the proposed alteration of the 8th article of the Confed eration. All these Acts, excepting the Virginia Impost Act, have lately been laid before the Committee of the States, by their respective Dele gates. We have just heard that Rhode Island has rejected the Impost Bill, by a very great Majority. I think this not to their honour. But what can be done with such a People? Must our whole system be over thrown by their ? Fill up this blank according to their demerits. This day we have received a letter from Mr Marbois acquainting us, that upon the application of some of our Merchants, his Majesty had permitted their vessels on their way to the Indies, to stop at the Islands of France and of Bourbon to refresh &c. 4 Not a word yet of the fa mous Culprit, 5 except that he has been convicted. I propose in my way home, to visit the Dutch Minister; and shall be ready to return the visit of Mr. Charge d’Affaires if he shou’d think proper to make me one. I have already spoken of the adjournment of last Saturday. Monday, & this day, we adjourned for want of numbers. Georgia being absent at the call of the House, yesterday, and Virginia, & Georgia today. Thus have we lost three days through meer indolence or inattention. July 23d. 1784. Your letter of the 12th from Providence has just come to hand. I feel vexed & grieved at the doings of the Genl. Assembly of that State. I wish Gentlemen in public Life, wou’d learn to controle their resentments & to be guarded in public measures by a cool judg ment. Let us not dispair yet however of carrying the present system into effect. It is too important to the Union to be suddenly aban- donned. What can be substituted in its place? It must be tried on again, when some Mens passions shall have subsided. We have not yet had any addition to our representation. I shall quit the ground in company with Mr. Blanchard towards the begining of next month, and shall hope for the pleasure of seeing you chez nous as soon after my return as may suit your convenience. You will doubtless have occa-
