July 20,1784 733 the treaties which subsist what regulations we may make that will at least make the advantages arising from our intercourse with those na tions reciprocal. If Spn., for instance, takes off her duties or makes them lighter on any produce of these States, than the other powers with whom we are or may be connected, they refusing us such priv- iledges, can we & is it consistent with the usage of nations to give her reciprocal advantages here, the treaties between us & each power being, as that with France, on the principle of the right of the “most favd. nation.” I make the enquiry more for information of the usage of nations than from any difficulty abt. the usual import of the words. Hath there been any investigation at the instance of any nation, that you can find, of the extent of the sense of these words & of the obliga tions enter’d into under this form? Is our tobo. restrain’d in its sale in the first instance to the farmers genl, alone, & if this is the case is it not contrary to the spirit of the treaty? Shd. not our ministers be in structed to attempt its removal? You will be so kind as give me every information upon these subjects you think necessary, for perhaps my enquiries may not extend to every object upon wh. I shd. be inform’d. I beg of you also to turn my attention to those other great objects to which in yr. opinion it shd. be applied, for a variety of points may arise to you when you look back on our country, in wh. our policy may [no] doubt be much improv’d. The laws prohibiting the executions for re- covry. of Brith. debts are still in force. An address or something of that nature is made to Congress upon that subject, desiring their sense of the propriety of keeping them in force until satisfaction is made for the removal of the negroes from N. York. Of this however Mr. Short will give you further information. The day after tomorrow I sit out upon the rout thro the western country. I have chang’d the direction & shall commence for the westward upon the No. river, by Albany &ca. I shall pass through the lakes, visit the posts, & come down to the Ohio & thence home. This rout will necessarily take me all the time during the recess of Congress, of course I shall not be able to attend the committee of the States agreeably to engagment made between my colleagues, & to accommodate wh. generally, a resolution pass’d authorizing such relief to each other. The first act of the committee was to adjourn to the 26 since wh. I believe they have not met. Mr. Short will inform you of the result of Colo. Harvie’s negotiation for me with Marks for his land. My failure in this instance will not abate my desire to effect a settlement in that county, it will still form one of my capital objects & will put it in execution as soon as possible. I had hopes of recieving a copy of yr. answer to the queries of Mr. Marbois but suspect you fail’d in obtaining yr. desire in Phila. 2 Will you effect it in Paris upon terms agreeable to yr. wishes? I shall certainly be in Trenton on the 30th of October. In the trip I shall take I may perhaps acquire a better knowledge of the posts wh. we shd. occupy, the cause of the delay of the evacuation of the Brith. troops, the temper of the
