July 20, 178411 735 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Philadelphia 20st July 1784 I have received your letter of the 16 with the packets & papers therein mentioned. I return you the copy of the journal of the Comee. of the States, and would just observe that I think it unneces sary to insert the credentials of any of the delegates on the Journal. They ought to be entered in the book of Credentials kept for the pur pose, and only a note made of them in the daily journal. And there fore Unless the Comee. are of a different Opinion, I would propose to alter the minute of the 3 July so that it may read as follows ‘The cre dentials produced by Mr Houston the 30th June under the great seal of the State of Georgia were read; whereby it appears that on the 9 Jany & 23 Feby last William Houston, Edward Telfair, Joseph Haber- sheim, William Few and William Gibbons esqrs. were elected to repre sent that state in Congress.” 1 I have written to Mr Hardy respecting what I deem an omission in the Journal, 2 if he and the comee. concur in Opinion with me I pre sume they will order it to be supplied. 3 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 This proposed alteration was added to the journal entry for July 5, with the addition of the name Lachlan McIntosh to the Georgia delegation, which Thomson had omit ted. See JCC, 27:569. 2 See the following entry. 3 Thomson also noted at the foot of this entry that he had enclosed the following newspapers: “Gazette 2824, Freemans Journal 180, Pensylva do 1714.” Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy Sir, Philadelphia. July 20. 1784 I have just glanced my eye over the minutes of the of Comittee the States, and see no notice taken of the attendance or nonattendance of the parties, who were, pursuant to the articles of Confederation, cited to appear before Congress or the Committee of the States on the 28 June. I presume the parties did not appear. But as the citation was a solemn act of Congress given in due form and the receipt thereof ac knowledged by the parties and as the nonattendance may be produc tive of consequences which at present are not foreseen, I submit to your consideration, whether it would not be proper that some minute be made of it in the Journal of the Committee of the States. 1 With the most perfect esteem, I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient and Most humble Servt, Cha Thomson
