July 23, 1784 739 Edward Hand to John Dickinson Sir Annapolis 23d July 1784 I lately had the honor to inform your Excellency that the State of Connecticut had passed an act authorizing Congress to levy a duty of 5 pr. Cent on all goods imported, except on certain enumerated articles, on which particular duties laid. I now enclose a copy of the act itself. 1 You[r] Excellency will also find inclosed copies of letters from Mr. de Marbois, General Muhlenberg, and Governor Chittenden. The two former I presume have already been in substance communicated by the writers of them. The latter I take the liberty to present you with, merely for your amusement. With much respect I have the honor to be &c. &c. &c &c E. H.2 Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 No earlier letter from Hand on this subject has been found, but Connecticut’s im post act, adopted during its May 1784 session, is in PCC, item 75, fols. 93-96. 2 Hand also wrote to his wife Catharine on the 25th, introducing Mr. Joseph Galloway of Maryland, and reporting that he was also writing to John Montgomery (not found) “to relieve me about the first of Septr.” Hand Papers, PHi. Richard Dobbs Spaight to Alexander Martin Sir, Annapolis 23d July 1784 Since my last to your Excellency, the Committee have reed, a letter from Mr. de Marbois, Charge des affaires for the Court of France, in forming us that his most Christian Majesty, had opened the Ports of Isle of France & Bourbone to the American Vessels in order to facili tate our Commerce to the East-Indies. He has not reed, the intelli gence officially, but it may be depended on. I have enclosed a copy of his Letter. 1 I formerly mentioned to you that the situation of our Indian affairs in the Northern & middle department were by no means agreeable. To give you some idea of them I send you a Copy of a Letter from General Muhlenburg; he thinks unless a treaty is made with them this fall, we shall be unavoi[d]ably involved in a war. 2 That a treaty will be made this fall is a matter of great doubt with me—it depends intirely on the Commissioners getting a sufficient number of troops for their protection, from the 700 which Congress recommended to the States of Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, & Pensylvania to raise from their Militia for 12 Months. None of the States have as yet ordered them to be raised, their assemblies are called to Deliberate on the Measure, if they should ever comply with the recommendation, I dont
