740 July 23,1784 think the troops can be raised, arranged &c before the Season for holding a treaty would elapse. I enclose your Excellency the Copy of a Letter from Thomas Chit tendon Governor of the Vermonters. 3 The four Eastern states are in favor of making Vermont a free, sovereign, & Independent state as it will not only weaken New York, but throw a fifth vote in their scale. From the language of the latter, it would seem, that they were sensible of this support—if it has no other effect, it has certainly added to their importance. Should the New Yorkers have recourse to arms, as they have informed Congress they would, unless their differences should be determined within a limitted time (which has now expired), I ex pect we shall have a little dust kicked up, during the fall, between them & Vermont. We have reed. Letters from Colo. Harmer & Lieut. Colonel Franks, giving us an acct, of their arrival, the former in France, the latter in England. Mr. Laurens in his last Letter informs us that Mr. Hartley was setting off for Paris to exchange the ratification with our Ministers, prefering that place to London, as he receives a handsome stipend for every journey. I have the honor to be &c, Rich D Spaight Tr (Nc—Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy, July 16, note 1. 2 Gen. Peter Muhlenberg’s July 5 letter to Thomas Mifflin, warning of the great dan ger posed by Virginia settlers who were claiming Indian lands in the Ohio country be fore the Indian commissioners could negotiate a general treaty with the various tribes, had been read July 9 and referred to Jacob Read, Jonathan Blanchard, and Jeremiah Townley Chase who reported August 3 a draft letter to Virginia’s governor which was immediately adopted by the Committee of the States. See JCC, 27:625-26; PCC, item 56, fols. 113-16; and Samuel Hardy to Benjamin Harrison, August 3, 1784. 3 Francis Dana to the Massachusetts General Court, July 22, note 5. 4 Henry Laurens’ April 24 letter to Thomas Mifflin is in PCC, item 89, fols. 349-52; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:795-97. Charles Thomson to John Dickinson Sir, Philadelphia July 23. 1784. I have received your note and am sorry, that for want of the Journal from May to Novr. 1783 it is not in my power to give you the informa tion wanted. I recollect perfectly, it was an Object which the delegates of New York had much at heart, that, in the final adjustment of Ac counts for the supplies or contributions of the states respectively to wards the common expences in the course of the war, equitable al lowances should be made in favour of those states which had suffered more than others by the calamities of war, and parts of which had been at different times in possession of the enemy. And therefore they
