July 23,1784 741 made several attempts to obtain a resolution that Congress would, in the application of the rule prescribed by the 8 Article of the Confed eration as declared by the resolution of the 17 Feby. 1783, make such abatements in favour of such states as from a full consideration of cir cumstances should appear to them just and equitable for the time the said parts of such states had been in the possession of the enemy or for the peculiar calamities they might have suffered. 1 But they failed in all their attempts and motions to effect this, previous to the 18 April 1783. And this was the principal reason that induced Mr Hamil ton to give his negative to the act which passed that day. 2 It seems however to me that on a subsequent day they obtained the recommen dation you mention, but for want of the journal I cannot point out the time. 3 With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt and Most humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). 1 For Alexander Hamilton’s motion to allow “abatements” to states that had suffered disproportionately from the war, which was offered February 17, 1783, when Congress ordered “a just and true estimate of the value of all lands in each of the United States” preliminary to apportioning quotas for the final settlement of state accounts, see JCC, 24:133-38; and these iMers, 19:729n.5. 2 See JCC, 24:260-61. 3 This recommendation has not been identified, and no subsequent congressional debate on the subject of abatements which Dickinson seems to have raised in his note to Thomson has been discovered. Charles Thomson to Jacob Read Philada 23 July 1784 I acknowledge, my Dear Sir, the beauties & agreeable Situation of Annapolis and will admit that the grace & charms of its nymphs were not excelled by those of the inhabitants of Calypso’s isle. And were you and your associates in pursuit only of love and pleasure, I would allow there is no place where you could more properly fix yr habita tion. But these are not the Objects of the patriot’s pursuit. The dance, the ball and continued round of pleasure are not the means of pro moting the interest of his country, guarding its rights and advancing its happiness and prosperity. I confess therefore I should not be sorry, if some kind Mentor, I care not whether in the shape of a Musqueto or a fever and ague were to drive you from that enchanting place into the walks of politics and force you to turn your attention to the con cerns of this young & rising empire which demands your Care. Ireland is in a ferment, Holland not at ease and by the paper I en close you will see that your native city Charleston is in a state of confu sion. Rhodeisland by her refusal to grant the impost has damped the hopes of the public creditors and sapped the foundation of public
