742 July 23,1784 credit. The Superint. of fin. is hastening to close his accounts & with draw from Office. The seeds of dissention are sowing at Wyoming be tween Connecticut and Pensylvania. New York & Vermont are not in the way of pacification. The business of the Indian Commission pro ceeds slowly, and Virginia by her acts is laying a foundation of national discussion with G. B. Whether the sequestered enchanting scenes of Annapolis is the place for the Watchmen of the U.S. to take their stand in order to foresee and provide against the brewing storm, I submit to your consideration and am with sincere affection, Dear Sir, your &c P.S. Please to make my Compliments to Mr Spaight & Mr Houston & tell them I mean part of this letter for them. LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). Jonathan Blanchard to Roger Sherman Sir. Annapolis July 24th 1784 Your letter to the Chairman of our Comtee. came to hand. 1 I did not much expect the pleasure of your Company again. Mr. Bradford the Attorney General of Pennsylva., and a Mr. Wilson, were in Town on the 26th of last Mo., 2 and sent into those of the Com tee. then met, (being only five) a paper purporting, that they were ready to join in the appointment of Comrs., for a Federal Court on the Claim at Wyoming, but no Person appearing on the other side, and the want of Members nothing was, or has since been done on that Subject, Mr. Bradford, & Mr. Wilson withdrew the same evening. We have had Members enough in Town since the 5th inst. to make a Quorum, but thro the non attandance of some, we have Scarcely made a Comtee. half the time since, and I am in hopes that Mr. Dana and my self, will soon be able to prevail, for an adjournment to Trenton—if we cannot carry that, I am apprehensive we shall leave this place by the fore part of August—to spend our time at the rate we have, for a Month past, is hardly worth our while. We have reed, a letter from Mr. Adams with propositions from Prussia for a Treaty of Amity & Com merce. The Comtee. have retrd. an answer, that Congress had already given such instructions as they thot proper, and in wch. his Prussian Majesty was Included, and the Comtee could not interfere. 3 I shall place under my Cover a Copy of a letter receivd from Gover nor Chittenden. 4 Mr. Dana & myself intend, before we leave the Com tee., to place it on the Journal, the letter seems to be well written, & not improper, to be communicated to the States in this way. It would give me particular pleasure, to be able to call on you at New-Haven, but Mr Dana designing to return by Rhode Island, I shall
