July 30, 1784 749 sooner than this Letter possibly Can but as the Absence of a Single Member woud dissolve the Committee at this time I am obliged to wait till I may be relieved by my Colleague Mr Pinckney who is at Philadelphia. I shall however hasten to meet my friends when I hope the pleasure of seeing yourself & Lady Well. Your state has once more damped our hopes & thrown things into Confusion, the Consequences will I fear be fatal in Europe. 1 What the public Creditors will do in this Country I cannot forsee but I fear a Scene of Anarchy will take place from which I turn my Eyes with horrour. God bid some Change of Sentiment may take place in Your Councils! Without it we are lost. Do me the honour to present my most respectful Compliments to Mrs Greene. I am with great esteem & regard, Sir Your Most Obedient & most Humb. Servant Jacob Read P.S. By Tuesdays post I wrote to my Brother Master James Bond Read & sent him Orders to proceed immediately from Prince Ton to Rhode Island to see & for a short time Attend his Mamma. I request your Countenance of him & any Assistance he may stand in need of. J Read The present post Carries letters for My Mother addressed to Your Care to which I request your Attention. 2 1 Oclk PM. This days post brot us Letters from our Ministers abroad. The Ratifications of the Definitive Treaty was exchanged at Passy by the respective Plenipotentiaries on 12th May last. RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 A reference to Rhode Island’s rejection of the impost. 2 Not found; but Read also wrote a brief letter to Thomas FitzSimons this day advising him that Robert Morris was to discharge a discounted note due the preceding day, that his mother and sister had sailed for Newport, and that “I mean very shortly to make them a Visit and shall have the honour to pay you my respects as I pass thro Philadel phia.” Gratz Collection, PHi. Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard Sir, Annapolis 30th July 1784 I expected to have been able to Complete some Dispatches with which I have been busied for some time past in time for this days post but have not been able to accomplish my Wish. But as They regard only the proceedings of the late Congress they may not be so material as that the delay of a few days will occasion any
