August 3,1784 754 site on their part for forming a general Treaty of peace with the Indi ans as far Southward as the Cherokees. But if persons under grants from Virginia are permitted to enter upon and settle the Lands westward of the Ohio before the Treaty is compleat and a line of property ascertained between the Indians Vil lages and hunting grounds and the United States, it seems impossible to avoid an immediate War with those people. The paragraph of General Muhlenberg’s Letter respecting “The Gentlemen who received the Illinois Grant of 150,000 Acres &c. ap pears to point to the Land reserved by the State of Virginia out of the Territory Ceded to the United States as a gratuity for General George Rogers Clarke his Officers and Men. It never was the Idea of Congress that such grant should be located on possession of the Land taken till the general arrangements neces sary for concluding a peace and fixing a boundary between the United States and the Indian Nations should have been carried into effect and the public tranquility established. Should an Indian War be brought on in consequence of the steps taken by the Grantees of the Land just mentioned, the Cession of Vir ginia now relied on as a principal fund for redeeming the public secu rities of the United States, would prove an expence and disadvantage to the Union rather than a source from which any pecuniary assis tance could be drawn. The Committee of the States therefore rely that effectual steps will be immediately taken by the State of Virginia to prevent any settle ments being made on Lands not clearly within the former line of property between the State of Virginia and the Indians and to sup press any such as may have been made until the measures now carry ing into effect for obtaining a general Treaty can have their full opera tion— a ] S o that every possible means be used to prevent a rupture with the Indians bordering on the State of Virginia. With perfect esteem and regard, I am, Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedient & most huml servt. S. Hardy RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Benjamin Bankson and signed by Hardy. 1 For receipt of Peter Muhlenberg’s July 5 letter and the drafting of this response, see Richard Dobbs Spaight to Alexander Martin, July 23, note 2. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dear Sir, Philada. Aug. 3. 1784 I have received your letter of the 30 as well as that of the 26 of last month with the papers therein mentioned. I am sorry Mr Kilty left the
