August 3, 1784 755 Office at the time business was encreasing. Should you find it neces sary you will please to employ some person to assist you during the continuance of the Office at Annapolis. I think it will be well to pay Mr Kilty out of the contingent Money and to carry the sum paid to the next quarter’s account so that it may be replaced. I need not inform you that the allowance to the person you employ must not exceed the rate of 500 dollars per Annum. I am Dear Sir, Yours affectionately, CT. 1 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). * Thomson also noted at the foot of this entry that he enclosed the following newspa pers: “Pens. Packet 1733, 1734, Pensyl Journal 1717.” Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy Sir, Philad Aug. 3. 1784. I received by yesterday’s post the enclosed letter of the 28 from Mr Kilty assigning his reasons for quitting the Office. 1 I have directed Mr Bankson in case he find it necessary to employ some person to assist him during the continuance of the Office at Annapolis. With great respect I have the honor to be &c, LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 A copy of the enclosed July 28 letter from John Kilty, Jr., clerk in the Secretary’s Of fice, is in Thomson’s Letterbook, fols. 33-34. Kilty’s resignation was the product of his chagrin over the appointment of Alexander Campbell, “a student of the law... but sev enteen or eighteen” years of age, “to the Office of Secretary to the Commission for In dian treaties with a Salary of 1850 dollars per Annum.” The clerks in Thomson’s office were paid $500 per year. See also Thomson to Benjamin Bankson, August 6. Charles Thomson to Robert Morris Sir Philada Aug. 3. 1784 I have the honor to enclose you a letter from the Comee of the States to Mr Carmichael at the Court of Madrid with the papers therein mentioned, 1 also a motion of Mr Read which is referred to you. 2 As the letter, papers & motion are an answer to yours of the 13 April and they come to me without any particular order I presume it is their intention that the whole should be sent to you that you may for ward the letter & papers to Mr C & write to Mr Pollock on the subject. For that purpose I send them to you as I received them, And am with the greatest respect, Sr, Yr Most Obedt & mo h S. CT
