August 6, 1784 757 2 Ibid., pp. 615-24. 3 Ibid., pp. 625-26. 4 Ibid., p. 596. 5 That is, see Thomson’s Memorandum Book, July 2-30, note 17. Edward Hand to Jasper Yeates Dear Yeates Annapolis 6th August 1784 In compliance with a notification from Jacky Ewing I have by last weeks post given you a general state of my title to the lands on Chartiers Creek, claimed by Jno. Perry as far as my memory serve, re ferring to my papers marked landed Papers for authentic & more par ticular documents. I also expect that the Secret[ar]y in the Land-Of fice, to whom I have written, will transmit you Copies of some Affidavits lodged in his Office in consequence of Old Allisons caveat. Since I wrote you last I have found a conveyance to Mrs. Vaughan, & have written to her for your Books. I think it is likely I shall see you earlier than I expected. Our New England Members appear deter mined to prevent the Continuance of the Committee by returning to their homes—altho the Situation of Indian affairs & other Matters particularly referred to the Committee of the States clearly point out the necessity of its existence at this time—the Eastern Gentry opposed the formation of a Commee. very strenuously. Being baffled then, they are now Resolved to render the Institution useless. They Indeed to cover a little their real design propose an Adjournment for 6 weeks & a removal of the Public papers to Trenton but the person must be very blind that cannot see in complying with this proposal a dissolu tion of the Committee, the time between the end of Septr. & the Meeting of Congress being so Short that members, uncertain of being continued in Congress will not think of Assembling. Besides there are at this very time many matters which Should be attended to tho I must confess they are not peculiarly interesting to the Eastern Combination nor altogether conformable to their System of politics. Adieu! dear Yeates, very Affectionably yrs. Edwd. Hand RC (NN: Hand Papers). Jacob Read to George Washington Sir Annapolis 6th August 1784 The Inclosed Copy of a Letter which I do myself the honour to in close to you will perhaps give you some as Curious information as any
