August 6, 1784 759 last at Passi near Paris. A Copy of his Britannic Majesties ratification is inserted in the enclosed news paper. 2 I informed you in my last 3 that I had enclosed to the Superinten dant of finance, a Copy of the Resolutions of the General Assembly, respecting the settlement of accounts & the appointment of a Com missioner 4 —the enclosed is a copy of his answer to me, & will shew you his ideas on that subject. 5 He says the Resolves do not perfectly square with those of Congress. 6 Your Excellency may have it in your power to recommend some per son from the State of Virginia or South Carolina, according to his de sire, & give him information of it. I am Sir, Your Excellency’s &c, Richd. D. Spaight Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 That is, Spaight’s letter to Martin ofjuly 23. 2 Undoubtedly Frederick and Samuel Green’s Maryland Gazette of August 5 in which the ratification had been published by congressional order. See Samuel Hardy to Ben jamin Harrison, July 30, note 1. 3 Not found. 4 For these May 28 resolutions, see N. C. State Records, 19:664-65. 5 Robert Morris’July 27 reply is in the Morris Papers, DLC; and ibid., 17:163. 6 Morris explained the conflict between the North Carolina assembly’s resolutions and the February 20, 1782, resolves of Congress in an August 4 letter to Martin, for which see JCC, 22:82-86; Morris Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming); and N. C. State Records, 17:165. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dear Sir, Philada. 6 August 1784 I have reed, yours of the 2 with the motion for adjournmt & the printed 7-sheet. I should be much obliged if you would acknowlege the rect. of mine. Though I have no doubt but my letters go safe yet it would have given me satisfaction to have heard you reed, that of the 27 of last Month, because I sent under your cover a letter to Mr Rem sen in which were enclosed 24^ guineas. I find Mr Kilty was ill in formed respecting the salary of the secretary to the commission for treating with the Indians. Gen. Butler assures me the salary is not fixed and I am well persuaded that if Mr Campbell flatters himself with receiving 1850 dollars per An. he will find himself greatly disap pointed. 1 I thank you for the trouble you took in making out three copies of the commission, they will be all that will be wanted as I have had three more made out. I am Sr. yours affectionately, CT. 2
