August 13, 1784 767 sions of the other[s], but no reward will be offered on his Account as tis not doubted but that as soon as he recollects himself and his duty to the Farm he will return to his business & the place of his Employ ment. Whoever will Apprehend Jonathan and Frank & return them to the New Shop above mentioned at the Sign of the Thirteen Starrs will be entitled to the aforementioned reward. No 9 August 12th, 1784. Printers in all the Farms from No 1 to 13 will do well to insert this advertizement as tis intended for general benefit. RC (DLC: Thomson Papers). 1 Not found. 2 That is, Charles Pinckney. 3 Notwithstanding, James McHenry did relieve Jeremiah Townley Chase on Tuesday and Wednesday, August 10 and 11, for which see JCC, 27:635-36. And he explained the dissolution of the Committee of the States in the following passage from a letter he wrote to Benjamin Franklin on August 24 from Baltimore. “You know I suppose that Congress left a committee of the states; but this committee is in effect at an end without the form of an adjournment. I went down to Annapolis the 10th instant, to relieve Mr. Chase (a delegate from this state) but I might as well have remained at home, for Mr. Dana and Mr. Blanchard had the day before signified their intention to return to their States. There being only nine members present, a mo tion was made by Gen. Hand to fix the dissolution on those gentlemen; which would have been entered on the journals, had not Mr Blanchard withdrawn just as the yeas and nays were about to be polled. This put an end to the committee as he did not chuse to return. Owing to this circumstance we shall have no visible confederal sovereignty be fore the meeting of Congress at Trenton. I dare say our enemies in Europe will con strue this event into a proof of a spirit of disorder and disunion among the States—not distinguishing between the States, and their fluctuating representatives who cannot be always wise—always moderate men. The truth is the Eastern delegates did not think a committee of the States necessary, and went into it merely because without one they could not have obtained the adjournment to Trenton. The passions and sentiments of Congress descending to the committee terminated in its dissolution as might have been foreseen. The States however have been at no time in greater harmony with each other. N. Carolina has adopted the 5 per Ct. impost. Several of them have passed acts to vest Congress with a power to regulate commerce previous to our recommendation on that subject—while Rhode Island alone resist the impost.” Franklin Papers. PPAmP. 4 For these August 3 motions, see JCC, 27:630-33. 5 JCC, 27:634-35. 6 That is, Jonathan Blanchard. 7 At his point in the manuscript Read inserted an asterisk and at the bottom of the page wrote: “NB after a long & warm Conversation the Clerk read the Entry he in tended to make exactly according to our Idea, but in our absence Dana & Blanchard got round him and Intimidated him, so that the Journal remains Blank.” Although Thomson chose not to add Edward Hand’s motion to the journals, he preserved it with the Committee of the States’Journal (PCC, item 10), and it was printed in the modern edition of the journals by Gaillard Hunt, for which see JCC, 27:634—35. For a contrary view of the August 9 proceedings, see Jonathan Blanchard to Elbridge Gerry, August 17, 1784. 8 That is, the state of Maryland. 9 New Hampshire. 10 Massachusetts. 11 Samuel Dick of Newjersey.
