August 13, 1784 769 solves and the Clause of the Confederation restricting the Individual states? 2 The Governor is actually now at Albany for the purpose—such a Step will render all our Endeavours abortive & be Attended with worse Consequences With respect to the Indians than almost any other that state Cou’d take—tis said to be under an Express Law of the state. If this Conduct is to be pursued our Commissioners are ren dered useless. As long as the savages believe there are distinct, Independent & per haps Jealous powers to treat with them they will Certainly avail them selves of the Circumstance Much to the disadvantage of the Union. New York has taken no steps with regard to the Troops required for Garrisoning the N Western frontier. I beg my best respects to your Lady & that you will always believe me to be with the greatest regard & Most perfect Esteem, Sir, Your Excel lency’s Most Obliged & Most Obedient Servant, Jacob Read PS The Committee of the states is broken up, the Members from the Eastern states & from New Jersey having gone off on Wednesday in a most extraordinary manner. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Series, 2:29-30. 2 In April the New York legislature had authorized Gov. George Clinton and the state’s Indian commissioners to negotiate compacts with the tribes within the state’s borders. For documents associated with meetings held at Loyal Village and Fort Schuyler during the summer of 1784 which include letters from the Continental Indian commissioners, see Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:323-25, 327-81. See also Barbara Gray- mont, “New York State Indian Policy After the Revolution,” New York History 57 (Octo ber 1976): 444-52. Charles Thomson to Monsieur Aycard Sir Philadelphia Aug 13. 1784 Congress have received your letter of the 21 Oct. 1783, 1 wherein you mention your having shipped the 10 April 1778 on board the frigate commanded by captain Stubag, a statue of his Most Christian Majesty which you designed as a present for them. I am sorry to inform you that Congress have never received it, nor have they had any advice of the arrival of such a vessel. It does not ap pear from yr letter whether the Adelaid was a king’s frigate or private vessel, for what port she was destined or whether she ever arrived at the place of destination or any port of America. On these matters your situation will enable you to gain full information. With great respect I have the honor to be Sr, Yr, M O & M. h. S. C.T.
