770 August 13, 1784 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). Addressed: “M Aycard Sculpteur a Marseilles, hors la porte de paradis.” 1 See Thomson to Edward Hand, July 16, note. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Philada. Aug 13. 1784 I have this moment reed, yours without date wherein you say you are authorised to inform me that Mr Blanchard, Mr Dana, Mr Dick and Mr Read will leave Annapolis the Morrow & next day, that the three first would set out the morrow & that as it is probable (you may say certain) that a dissolution of the Comee will follow requesting to know how to proceed. 1 I hope the gentlemen will not take so rash a step without at least giving some directions respecting the removal of the Offices. But should that be the case you will be pleased to consult with Mr Hardy. If the committee is dissolved I think it will be best to have all the papers safely packed up in cases and brought to this city. Let the manuscript Journals that remain be put into the iron chest. I am sorry you did not return the bills I sent you immediately on Mr Harwood refusal to pay them. In that case you would have had the cash sent you. Is there no person in Annapolis who will advance the Money for them or who will lend you the amount of the bills till you can send them up. If any person will take up those bills & send them to me, I will immediately advance the Money. I wait with impatience for farther Intelligence and am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate, Cha Thomson LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). i For the final collapse of the Committee of the States, which was recorded on the journals August 19 by the six delegate remnant that remained to that date, see JCC, 27:636-38. Charles Thomson to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen, Philadelphia 13 Aug. 1784 In pursuance of the Orders of the Committee of the States, I have the honor to transmitt to you the copy of a letter signed T. Gilfillan, dated London the 19 Feby 1784 with a copy of an inspection roll of Negroes taken on board certain vessels at anchor near Staten Island on the 30 of November 1783, to be made use of in any negotiations
