August 19, 1784 781 to order the Offices to be removed? There can be no use in keeping them any longer at Annapolis. If they were here I could have the printing compleated before the meeting of Congress. With great respect I have the honor to be Sr. Yr. most Ob & most h - S - CT. LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 See Hardy to Benjamin Harrison, August 13, note 2. Samuel Hardy to Certain States S* r Annapolis 19th August 1784 In Conformity to the Advice of the Members of the Committee of the States: from the States of Pensylvania, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina & Georgia, I do myself the honour to inform Your Ex cellency that the Committee are left without a sufficient Number to proceed to business and the United States Consequently exposed to all the danger that may result from the want of a federal head. Permit me therefore to request that you will Communicate this in telligence to the Members of Congress representing the State over which you preside 1 to the end that one of them may Repair to Philadelphia as early as possible to meet the Committee, the public records being ordered to that place until the Offices Necessary for their Reception are Compleated at Trenton. I have the honour to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt humble Servt., S. Hardy, Chairman RC (PPIn: Independence Park Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of New Hampshire.” 1 For the action taken by the six members of the Committee of the States remaining in attendance this day to advise the seven unrepresented states “of the actual situation of the Committee, and of the present disposition of the papers and records of Con gress, seeJCC, 27:637—38. See also Jacob Read to Charles Thomson, August 16, note 4. Copies of this letter undoubtedly went to the executives of New Hampshire, Mas sachusetts, Rhode Island, Delaware, New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut, although only those to the first four have been located: at MeHi, Fogg Collection (Mas sachusetts); R-Ar, Letters to Governors (Rhode Island); DLC, Nicholas Van Dyke Pa pers (Delaware); and the text for this entry. Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard $ lr Annapolis 19 th August 1784. My last covering several Accounts & other Papers for the Informa tion of your Excellency & the Inspection of the Legislature was trans-
