August 22, 1784 785 whether we shall have any this fall, I cannot tell you. And now for your fears I must leave Time, which is a sovereign disposer or revealer of Events to confirm or remove them. I wonder your queries did not proceed to the Council of Censors. Perhaps you imagined they were going on in the usual way and not doing any thing worth a particular enquery. If you did, you are very much mistaken. They lately appointed a committee to enquire “whether the Constitution has been preserved inviolate in every part and whether the legislative and executive branches of government have performed their duty as guardians of the people or assumed to themselves or exercised other or greater powers than they are entitled to by the Constitution.”2 The committee consisted of Messrs. Bryan, Potter, Read, Smilie, McLene and Finley who have gone into a strict review of the proceedings of the legislative branch and have from their acts and journals quoted near a hundred violations of the Con stitution and bill of Rights, among which are “The Act for erecting Dickinson College at Carlisle” and a resolve of 9 Sept 1778 “that Council place chains across Chesnut Street (a public Highway) in Philadelphia city whilst Congress &c be sitting, to prevent the passing of carriages.” But the Committee are careful to apprize the reader that the violations they have quoted do not comprehend all that were committed. For in several places and under several heads they ex pressly quote them Examples from a multitude.” Let us then sup pose, which is not an unreasonable supposition, that the multitude from whence they are taken compared with the examples selected is as a hundred to one, the whole amount of violations of or deviations from the constitution committed in the course of seven years would he at least eight or nine thousand. What a hopeful set of legislatures! But the Committee have not stopped here. Finding the Constitution not very clearly expressed they have condescended like grammarians to write glosses upon it and in their great wisdom have determined that a certain expression in the 20th Section “ought to be considered as introduced by way of parenthesis,” and in the plenitude of their power have hedged it in from the rest of the section by two crooked strokes ( ). They have also restored a comma, in the 22d section, which they say “candor must allow to be omitted.” But it would be ex ceeding all bounds of a letter to attempt a minute investigation of the report or to give specimens of the profundity of wisdom, depth of judgment, candor and political knowledge therein displayed or of the precision & elegance with which it is expressed. Suffice it to inform you that it is printed by Francis Bailey at Yorick’s head and advertised to be sold for a shilling. A rare pennyworth! that it is now under the consideration of the Council and debated with open doors. As I was reading the next paragraph of your letter Echo seemed to stand by and make the following responses. “How do you feel on
