September 4, 1784 787 Hope of again collecting at that Place a sufficient Quorum of the States to proceed to Business, it was thought more prudent to use the Opportunity of this Recess to remove the Papers & Records of Con gress from Annapolis to this City, ’till proper Offices are prepared for their Reception at Trenton. Measures were also taken to assemble the Delegates from the States not represented on the Floor of the Committee, in order to form the Committee of the States at Philadelphia;' and I entertain a sanguine Hope that that Body will soon be in a State to act. I left Annapolis on the 22d Ulto. & arrived in this City on the 25th to attend the public Business, should the States enable us to proceed with the important Matters committed to us by the United States & that have come under our Cognizance since the Adjournment of Congress. The Arrival of Mr Bull gave me great Pleasure as I assure your Ex- celly. my constant Attendance on Congress & the Committee of the states for so long a Time has rendered a Short Relaxation from Busi ness extremely necessary to my Health, which is much impaired by so sedentary a Life. Mr. Pinckney having been constantly indisposed since his Arrival in this State and obliged to go to the Eastward for his Recovery, was not able to take my seat in the Committee or to give me any Relief: and Colo. Laurens who landed from England in the Begin ning of August found an Impropriety in his doing so ’till he had re ported himself to Congress, in whose service he was for so long a Time & who may have Enquiries to make of him on the subject of his late Mission. As Mr Bull has consented to attend the Committee, I purpose in a day or two setting out for Rhode Island, as well for the re-establish- ment of my Health as to pay a visit to my Mother, whose infirm Health rendered it necessary for her to pass the summer in a more Northern Climate than South Carolina. I shall however return by the Middle of October & be in Readi ness to attend the Congress at the Time of their Meeting pursuant to Adjournment. I hear with great Pleasure that the late Heats & Mobs in Charleston have entirely subsided & that the state throughout is in perfect Har mony & Tranquillity. 2 Those Riots were infinitely exaggerated & ea gerly catched at by designing Persons in this Quarter who used them to shew that we were unequal to the Government of ourselves, restless & discontented under our own Laws. And as the Delegation was en tirely uninformed of the rise & progress of that disgraceful Business, I was placed in an exceedingly awkward & disagreeable situation when Enquiries were made on that subject. I fear these Occurrences will be used to our great disadvantage on the other side the Atlantic. As I find the present Legislature is not expected again to meet, I do not at present forward some Communications intended for their
