September 9, 1784 789 Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard $’ r Philadelphia 9th Septr. 1784. My last was dated at this Place the fourth day of the present Month & forwarded by the Brigantine Charleston packet, Captn. Allibone— since which Nothing very material has occurred. I do not lose sight of the Hope that we shall be able to assemble a Committee of the States at this Place in the Course of Ten days or a Fortnight. Indeed I own to your Excellency that I am exceedingly san guine in this Business, especially when I consider the disadvantageous Point of View the United States must appear in, in the Eyes of Europe. The Observation naturally occurs to every American that has the Welfare & Grandeur of his Country at all at Heart—but my Feelings are particularly wounded when I hear it in the Mouth of every For eigner with whom I converse. The Marquis de la Fayette who is the steady Friend of this Country & has done much to serve it, laments the dispersion of the Committee of the States in Terms expressive of the deepest Concern. He thinks no step since the Peace will more deeply wound our Interests in the Courts of Europe. What do those Men deserve who thus suffer private Engagements or perhaps mere Caprice to endanger the Peace & Glory of their Country! On perusing some late dispatches from our Ministers I thought the Letters whereof I enclose Copies sufficiently interesting to deserve to be laid before your Excellency & the Legislature & have therefore sub mitted them. 1 They furnish an additional Evidence of the ill Blood entertained against us by The Court of Great Britain & our critical situation & shew You what Trifles they can catch at as Cause of dispute. How much on our Guard then ought we to be, & how attentive to the sup porting & rendering firm our internal Governments, as well as our National Credit, every reasoning Mind will readily conceive. I have been delayed here a week longer than I expected by the Fever & Ague which has given me a severe Shake, but as I am at length clear of it shall proceed for Rhode Island in a day or two. My Colleague Mr. Bull will remain on the spot to attend the Committee— Colo. Laurens intends travelling southward by Land in the Course of Ten days or a fortnight. I am with the most perfect Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & Most humble Servant (signed) Jacob Read P.S. The Commissioners appointed by the United States in Congress to form Treaties of Peace &c with the Indians as far South as the Cherokees are proceeding with that Business & will hold their first
