796 September 27, 1784 Portsmouth we met also with great attention. I assure you the worst sample by far that I have seen of the people of these States has been their Delegates to Congress. In Boston I saw Honest Gorham who pressed me very much to spend a day with him in Charles Town where he lives but I cou’d not. I also saw Higgenson, he came up to me politely and Said he was glad to see me. I saw Osgood who attended us to see King Hancock but as he is Cashier of their Bank and obliged to give close Attendance there I had little of his Company. I met Gerry in the Street. He had before heard of my being in Boston his Black Man told me he had mentioned that Circumstance to him but he Coloured and passed me without any further notice. I several times after saw him. We did not Speak. He is a Malignant white livered rascal—one day crossing to Charles Town I saw in a boat that was putting off as we landed on that side Squinting Frank, he woud not see me. I tried to Catch his Eye but he looked down and I cou’d not till he got fairly off. “1 find Jonathan told a lie when he returned home as an excuse for his Coming away from Annapolis. He went to see Mr. President Ware and told him the reason for his leaving the Committee was that they had Nothing to do. I had the fortune to meet the old President at Home when I called on him and undeceived him on that point. I shall put this into my next advertisement. “Frank has also told several untruths both to Ellery here and in Boston he too shall hear of them again. I hope you made a Committee malgre your ill bodings. I feel more for the Invisible State of the federal Government than I can express at this time too when we know the Eyes of Europe are upon us. ’tis most mortifying to those who have any sense of the Dignity that shou’d be preserved if we ever mean to be respected. One thing I promise those Gentry that dissolved our Committee or rather dispersed it. I’ll stick them in the Journals. You know the whole of the subject and as you are not in such a moving state as I am I wish you’d think of a sett of good Stinging resolves and put them into my hands. I hope to see you by Sunday next Sevenight, shall bring my mother, sister and Cousin back with me. I fear I shall have no Opportunity of seeing any person from Connecticut here the object of saving a little money prevented a Delegate from being sent on either at first or on the Chairman’s Letter. “My old Friend Ellery has been very kind and attentive and Howell meeting me par Hazard in the Streets of Providence flew to my Embraces with all the rapture of a lover—he attended us and offered services as if nothing had ever happened. He tells me John Brown will go forward to Congress. Adieu I fear I have tired you pray write me to New York where I shall stay a few days.” Hugh Williamson to Alexander Martin Sir, Edenton 30th September 1784 By the printed journals of Congress you will observe that a little be fore the adjournment sundry important subjects were agitated & the questions lost on principles which some of us could not have sus pected. It was generally admitted to be essential towards the discharge of the national debt that the lands ceded to Congress by New York & Virginia should be purchased from the Indians; and a military force somewhat respectable is necessary either to holding an advantageous treaty, taking possession of the Western Posts, or keeping the Indians in check. But some of the states would not admit that Congress has any right to make a requisition of troops during peace. The southern and middle states were of the opinion that such a right could not be given up. It is provided in one of the Articles of Confederation that “the United States in Congress assembled shall have the sole power of
