September 30, 1784 797 raising troops.” There are no words by which this power is restrained to the time of War; hence we supposed it to be perpetual; especially when we considered that the existence of such a right may be essen tial; for the very independence or safety of an Empire may depend upon its arming in time of peace to prevent an invasion. The minority however would not recede and we had recourse to a poor expedient, but the only one remaining viz To calling on Certain states for Militia. 1 The inefficacy & expence of this measure may probably give rise to better ones. The enclosed paper No. 1 is an extract of a Letter from the Legislature of Massachusetts. No. 2 is an Act of the general Assembly of Connecticut. These papers have been refered to a grand Committee who have reported on the several articles to which they refer, but I cannot allow myself to believe that Congress will adopt the report without great amendments. 2 For myself I confess that I am not possessed of such information, though I have sought for it with dili gence as to enable me on those questions to determine with any de gree of certainty what is the true Interest of the state. Hence it is that I am to trouble Your Excellency with a few questions, whose solution I cannot otherwise obtain. You will observe that the propositions of Massachusets open a field for extensive charges by that state against the United States. New Hampshire too has claims similar to those of Massachusets for boun ties & old Continental Money. There is a redundance of old money in Rhode Island, & Connecticut has large claims for Militia service. If these several claims are allowed the debt of the United States must be encreased by several Millions of Dollars. Something must doubtless be done on these several heads, but if my calculation is right our state must gain or loose near half a Million of Dollars according to the principles on which the different resolves may be founded. I am aware that since I have had the honor to serve the state some of the same questions that I am going to propose have been stated by the dele gates & no answer returned. However as I conceive the subject very important and as the time approaches when a final settlement must be made of the late military expences of the United States, I flatter myself that more attention will now be paid to those different subjects. The claim of Massachusets that she may be allowed for all the boun ties that were paid for recruiting the Continental Line in the last years of the War is said to be very large, & New Hampshire has a similar claim. We are told that a bounty of 100 dollars per annum was paid by the several classes to the recruits whom they raised for three Years. In support of the claim Massachusets alledges that she has raised more than her quota of the Continental Line & that Congress has promised to indemnify any State for such exertions. I presume this single charge may amount to a Million of Dollars. But it is enquired, has Massachusets done more than her quota or has North Carolina done less than her quota of military service: at present we are not furnished with materials by which we can answer those questions.
