October 1, 1784 807 6 See N.C. State Records, 24:561. 7 See JCC, 27:446-53. Charles Thomson to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia Oct 1. 1784 Though I have nothing agreeable to write, yet I cannot suffer Mr Short to go without a line to give you some information of the present situation of Affairs. Agreeably to your advice, when Congress ad journed, I met the Committee of the States and having opened a book for their journals & made the necessary arrangements, I applied for leave of absence which was readily and unanimously granted and I re turned to Philadelphia. The Committee also gave themselves a short recess by adjournment from the 4 to the 26 of June. Nine States did not meet till the 8 July when they proceeded to busi ness but not with the harmony and good humour that could have been wished. The Deputies from Pensylvania attended on the day as signed for the appointment of a court to decide on the claims respect ing the private right of soil of the Wioming lands between the claimants under Grants from Pensylvania & Connecticut. But as the deputies from Connecticut did not appear and the Committee of the States had not assembled, the business went off without any thing being done and that affair remains in a very disagreeable situation & is like to produce very unhappy Consequences. On the 29 July a mo tion was made for adjourning the Committee of the States to Trenton; but being lost it was again renewed on the 3 August & being then lost, three of the members, viz. Messr. Blanchard, Dana & Dick left the Comee. on the 11 & returned home. The remaining members after waiting till the 19 & seeing no prospect of forming a comee. advised the removal of the papers & records to Philada and wrote to the sev eral states to send on delegates to that place. Five have met here and have caused Notice of their meeting to be sent to the states unrepre sented, with an earnest request to send on delegates. But it does not appear to me that any Committee will be formed before the Meeting of Congress which is to be at Trenton on the 30 of this Month or the first Monday in November. Though this invisibility of a foederal head will have little effect on our affairs here, or on the minds of the citizens of the United States who can easily reconcile themselves to it and who will view it in no other light than the rising or dissolution of their several legislatures to which they have been accustomed, yet I am apprehensive it will have an ill aspect in the eyes of European Nations & give them un favourable impressions, which will require all your address & abilities to remove.
