808 October 1, 1784 The messenger sent to Canada is returned and has brought an an swer from Genl Haldiman of which I enclose a copy, 1 and by which you will see that though he has reed, official information of the ratification of the definitive treaty of peace, yet no orders are sent to evacuate the posts within the United States. And there is a report that the garrisons are relieved & the posts supplied with near 12 months provisions. I leave you to draw conclusions from this Conduct. What steps Congress will take respecting this matter I know not. In the mean while I am sorry to find that R.I. still continues obstinate & refuses to grant the impost, which seems to be the only means of establishing national credit & reputation & giving us weight with foreign nations. H. & E. 2 it is said got home just in time to prevent a change that was like to take place in their public councils & to confirm their former obstinacy. On the 13 August I wrote a long letter to Doct Franklin in which I gave him a full account of the proceedings in the case of Long- champs. Matters still remain in the same situation, and I am appre hensive that the bill which I mentioned to be before the legislature has not been passed, as that Assembly was suddenly broken up, on Tuesday last by the secession of 19 Members on Account of an Alter ation that was about to be made in the test laws. I have not yet heard whether Mr Jay will accept the office of Secy, for foreign Affairs, though I have some faint hopes that he will. Mr L[aurens] arrived in town some weeks ago. I am told that he was hurt at not being received with the same demonstrations of Joy and marks of Attention as were shewn to the Marquis de la Fayette who arrived some days before him. He purposes to wait the meeting of Congress as he has some communications to make respecting their affairs in Europe. I find that Spain is still bent on obtaining the exclusive navigation of the Mississippi. Rendon shewed me this morning a letter from Galvez the Minister for the American department wherein he desires him to inform Congress that the intercourse with New Orleans & with Havannah is shut till the boundaries between the US & S are settled & that the court cannot admit that England had a right to settle the boundaries with the U.S. in that Country which Spain had conquered in 1782 before the provisional treaty. 3 Please to make my Compliments to your Collegues. Mrs. T. joins in respects to you & your daughter. With great respect, I am, Dr Sr. Yours, Cha. Thomson RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:431-33. 1 Thomson enclosed copies of Frederick Haldimand’s July 13, 1784, letter to Henry Knox as well as Gov. George Clinton’s March 19 letter to Haldimand and Haldimand’s May 10 response, which were enclosed with his letter to Knox. Knox had sent Lt. Col. William Hull to confer with Haldimand on a time table for the British evacuation of American frontier posts under terms of the treaty of peace, but Haldimand responded that as he had received no orders to evacuate the posts he was unable to discuss the
