810 October 6,1784 23d Septr. I am happy to find that the line of conduct my judgement suggested to me as most eligible, appear such to you. As my stay in Annapolis without any prospect of being join’d by other Members was at once awkward & coud answer no good purpose I sat out for this place on the 18th but arriv’d here the 22d. Notwith standing I was ever averse to a removal thence & still more so to the unjustifiable measures taken to effect it—Yet now I feel happy, that in coming hither every imputation of neglect of the Confoederal Govern ment in the State of Virginia will be avoided. Only six States have assembled—the Secretary of Congress in pur suance of the Opinion of the Majority of the Members present, has written to the Executives of those States who have no representative here. 1 He has stated the importance of the particular business before the Committee, which conjoin’d with the dishonor of leaving the Union without a head, it was expected woud induce them to send on Members. No good effect has yet arose from this measure, & none I imagine is to be hoped for. If no Committee convenes before the session of Congress, we shall avoid the impropriety suggested in yr. Letter of the 23 & which I was very sensible of. I had indeed determined to proceed to business, had the competent number of members convened—this the critical situa tion of our Affairs demanded of me, & woud have justified me—at least to myself—but not without stating my reasons in writing, which woud have amounted to a protest against a measure so pregnant with fatal consequences being hereafter adduc’d as a precedent. The American Government has sustain’d a rapid declension of Character since the peace, both at home & abroad. (This will be ac celerated by our present situation & indeed I see not where it will end unless the E[astern] S[tates] send us Men more honest & more able.) Encour aged by our weakness Haldimand has refused the N. Western Posts to an Official demand, & the Spaniards commit all manner of depredation & insult. Oliver Pollock who had been sent to Havanna to succeed Mr. R. Smith on his death, in the duty of detecting & preventing Neutral Na tions from advantaging of & disgracing our Flagg, has been stopp’d by an order of the Governor of that place & all his property seized. I am particular in mentioning this as the reputation of the State of Virginia seems to be in some measure interested in the story of this Man. 2 The Warrants issued to him by the State he passed away both to his American & Spanish Creditors. Upon the Act of Legislation which stopped their payment, they were returned on him & his person altho’ protected by a public Character arrested & his property seized. He had sent to this place his Wife & a large family for support—im mediately on her Arrival the American holders of those Warrants seiz’d on all her Baggage, even her Wearing Apparel. Certainly the sit uation of a Man first seperated from his family & then hearing that
