October 25,1784 815 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 'Jenifer, who had been elected a commissioner of the new board of treasury on June 3, had signified his acceptance of the post but explained that his duties as Maryland in tendant of finance would prevent his attendance at his new office before November 15. He subsequently found that he would be delayed even longer than he expected and consequently offered his resignation on November 10. See JCC, 27:546; and PCC, item 78, 13:297-311. See also Thomson to Jenifer, November 11, 1784. Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard Sir New York 25th. Octr. 1784 My last which bore date about the Middle of Septr. 1 was from Philadelphia by Captn. Strong of the ship Philadelphia. I trust that dispatch came safe to hand as I am informed by private Letters of the safe Arrival of the ship at Charleston. By that Opportunity I did myself the Honour to make all the Com munications to your Excellency that appeared to me important for your Information or the satisfaction of the Legislature. I have not been favoured with any public Advices from Carolina since the Letter alluded to. Am sorry to inform your Excelly. that I was deceived in the san guine Expectations I had formed of the speedy assembling of the Committee of the states at Philadelphia owing to the Inattention of the Eastern States or their delegates to that Object. I fear this Invisible State of our Government will not redound much to our Credit with Foreigners. They will I fear impute it to other Causes than the private Business of the Members of the Committee & draw Conclusions un favourable to our Interests & highly disadvantageous to the Confeder acy, of the stability & Firmness of which this Measure will create great doubts. I wish I cou’d at this Time assure your Excellency of the success of our Indian Negociations. We know Nothing authentically indeed of the Proceedings of the Commissioners, but Report here says that little more was hoped to be concluded than a Cessation of Hostilities for one Year. Our Commissioners were detained so late from proceeding on the Business from a want of Money, Troops & the other necessary supplies that the Indians had generally returned home after their Ne gociations with the Commissioners from the State of New York. What the Nature of these were will be discovered on the Meeting of Con gress—at present they appear to me to militate directly with the Arti cles of Confederation. Tho’ the People in Power in their state strenu ously deny that any violation of the federal Compact has taken place, Time &-a report from the Commissioners for the United States must decide that Question.
