xxvi Illustrations after his admission to the New Jersey bar in 1774 before becoming drawn into the current of public affairs at the onset of the American Revolution. He quickly found military life congenial, however, and soon became colo nel of the First Somerset Regiment of New Jersey militia, with which he saw action during an unsuccessful attack on Staten Island and in the campaign to defend Philadelphia during August and September 1777. The following June he was a participant in the running fight with Sir Henry Clinton’s fleeing troops from Camden to Monmouth Court House, but in November 1778 he resigned his command when he was elected by the New Jersey assembly to represent the state in Congress, in which he served from January to March 1779. Only 25, Frelinghuysen soon con fided to a friend that “in the Character of a Delegate” he felt “totally inadequate,” and in April he submitted his resignation. He was again elected to Congress in 1782, but apparently still felt uncomfortable with the appointment and did not attend, although he did subsequently as sume the legislator’s role in both the New Jersey Assembly during 1784-85 and 1800-1803 and in the United States Senate, 1793-96. He died in 1804. American school, 18th century. Courtesy Joseph S. Frelinghuysen, Jr., and the Frick Art Reference Library. Thomas Adams 88 Adams (1730-88), of Henrico County, Va., had spent the pre revolutionary decade pursuing a commercial career in London, but he returned to America in 1774 and quickly became active in the movement against Britain. He stepped onto the Continental stage when he was elected a delegate to Congress, which he attended from April to August 1778 and from January to April 1779. There his mercantile experience landed him appointments to the Marine Committee and the Committee of Commerce, for which he participated in some of the negotiations with Beaumarchais’ agent Francy over the importation of arms and supplies from France. He was also appointed to the Medical and the Indian Affairs Committees, and he was a signer of the Articles of Confederation. During a number of votes involving the Deane-Lee controversy, Adams voted against the allies of the Lee family, but he resigned from Congress before the crucial votes on the recall of William and Arthur Lee were taken Adams moved west to Augusta County after he returned to Virginia, where he died in 1788 after three years additional public service during 1783-86 in the Virginia Senate. LC-USZ62-54660. Observations on the American Revolution 123 The arrival of the Carlisle Peace Commission in America in June 1778 opened a new round in the contest for American minds that did not come to a close until well after the commissioners returned to England in De-
