xxviii Illustrations the autumn of 1775 until March 1780. He is chiefly remembered as a signer of the Declaration of Independence and of the Articles of Confeder ation. Considering his length of service in Congress, he held comparatively few committee assignments, although he served for a time on both the Marine and Medical Committees. He clearly did not get along with Henry Laurens, and their differences over the Deane-Lee controversy and Penn’s defense of Robert Morris eventually brought them to a duel in January 1779. In April 1779, Penn attempted to embarrass Laurens with his constituents for supporting New England claims to the northern fisher ies, but he otherwise generally steered clear of controversy. He returned to North Carolina in 1780 to serve on the state’s board of war during the southern campaign of 1780-81 and acted briefly as a receiver of Conti nental revenues in the state during Robert Morris’ superintendency of the finance department. In ill health, he subsequently returned to the practice of law, and he died in 1788. Miniature on ivory by an unidentified artist, ca. 1780. Courtesy of The Historic New Orleans Collection and the Collection of Mrs. Duncan Par ham. Meriwether Smith’s Appeal to the Public, May 25, 1779 488 Meriwether Smith (1730-90), a planter-merchant of Essex County, Va., emerged as a leader of the opposition to British authority during the Stamp Act crisis and subsequently held a number of important public posts during the 1770s and 1780s. He served several terms in the Virginia assembly from 1775 to 1788, and he was a delegate to Congress in 1778-79 and 1781. There his experience in commercial affairs landed him appointments to the Committee of Commerce and the Marine Commit tee, and in 1779 he was named the Virginia representative on the 13- member Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee that recommended the recall of the American commissioners abroad. His opposition to Arthur and William Lee increasingly brought him into conflict with the Lees’ sup porters in Congress, particularly Henry Laurens, who crossed swords with Smith a number of times during the recall debates. Their quarrel became public knowledge in May when Smith attempted to discredit Laurens over statements “derogatory to the honor of Congress” contained in an intercepted letter from Laurens to Georgia governor John Houstoun that was published in the New York Royal Gazette. And when Laurens’ defense of his conduct was entered on the journals of Congress but Smith’s motion to place his rebuttal on the record was denied, Smith printed Congress’ three-day proceedings on this episode in the May 29 issue of the Pennsylva nia Packet. The following round in this prolonged bout was fought in the Virginia House of Delegates, where the Lees’ allies secured passage of legislation barring merchants from representing the state in Congress. Al though Smith relinquished his seat in 1780 as a consequence, he returned to Congress for another term in 1781. From the Pennsylvania Packet, May 29, 1779.
