February 1, 1779 5 in my life previous to his rude behaviour in the Coffee-house. Upwards of four weeks have elapsed, and he has not thought proper to communicate this private affair, either to the public or to myself. If he had conceived that I had affronted him on any occasion, I apprehend he should have men tioned it to me, either verbally or in writing before he did any thing farther; that gentlemen always acted this part; and that the public had nothing to do with affairs of a private nature. Agreeable to an opinion I then entertained, that he had rendered it necessary for the material parts of the transaction in Congress respecting him to be published, that the public, to whom he has appealed might have an opportunity of forming a judgment of his behaviour, and particularly of his veracity, I shall state the information given to Congress, the testimony of a few of the witnesses, his apology, and the determination of Congress thereupon. As many of the witnesses, who have been examined, were either at a distance, or came into the Coffee-house towards the conclusion of the altercation, they knew little of the matter, and therefore it will be unnecessary to take up a news paper by inserting their evidence; but the whole of the proceedings are lodged with the printer, for the perusal of any person who may chuse to take the trouble. It may be proper to remark, that I never spoke to any of the witnesses who were examined, nor to any other gentleman, that was in the Coffee-house, to learn what he knew of this matter, nor interfered in producing any evidence whatsoever; and that it is not improbable many persons, that were not called upon, heard more than most of those who were. Before I conclude, justice to myself and a desire of a continuation of the esteem of the virtuous sons of liberty, compel me to remark, that Brigadier Thompson has asserted, “That I refused going into a room in a tavern in this city where he and a number of other officers were, alledging that I would not sit down with a parcel of upstart Continental officers, or words to that effect.” The malicious design of this invented tale is obvious, and it has been circulated by his partizans, I am told, with great industry among the gentlemen of the army. As I have not been able to find out when, where or how this pretended speech should have happened, and I cannot recollect a single circumstance that could give the least foundation for it, all I can do is to deny it, declaring that I have not been in a tavern in this city, where the Brigadier was to my knowledge, for upwards of two years past. I rest assured, that those gentlemen, with whom I am ac quainted, would not credit this idle story, even if I had suffered it to pass unnoticed, and those, who do not know me, after this ought not to believe it. 2 Thomas M’Kean MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, February 2, 1779. ‘See Thomas McKean to the Public, December 30, 1778, which was printed in the Pennsylvania Packet, December 31, 1778. 2 Although this was McKean’s final public letter on this dispute, a related letter written by “A.B.” on behalf of General Thompson appeared in the February 9 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet, and one written by John McKinly was printed in the Packet on February 25.
