6 February 1, 1779 Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen Marine Committee, Philada. Feby. 1st. 1779 General Greene the Quarter Master General having made application to this Committee for four hundred Pieces of light Sail Duck Suitable for making Tents for the army—we referred him to the Committee of Com merce who have wrote to Mr Bradford the Agent at Boston desiring him to consult with your Board, 1 and if he had your approbation to deliver that quantity or as much as could be Spared. Provided this Duck can be spared without prejudice to the Navy, we request you will give orders for the delivery of it. We are Gentn., Your hble servants, Signed, S. Adams. Chairman (Copy.) Tr (PPAmP: Nathanael Greene Papers). In the hand of John Brown. 1 The Committee of Commerce’s letter to the Eastern Navy Board has not been found, but the board’s February 22 reply to this letter of the Marine Committee is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday Feby 2d. 1779. Commercial Committee 1 9 oC Congress. Motion for Powder, Shot & Armes to be sent to So Carolina Per Col Cambra, that the General send an Engenier to So Carolina, Letter from G1 Gates. Letter from do to Genl Washington. Letter from G1 Green reccomending a plan for setling the Account of People who have sufferd damage by the Army. Referrd to the Committee to consult with the Quarter Master General. Board of Warr to contract with Monsr Penet & Co for Fire Arms &c. 2 Report Read from the Committee of Appeals. 3 At 6 PM attended the Committee on foreign affairs but not members enough, did no Business. 4 MS (DLC). 1 The Committee of Commerce wrote a brief letter this day to Jean Holker requesting bills of exchange in return for Continental money. An extract of the letter, written by Francis Lewis and signed by Lewis, Fell, and James Searle, was printed as item 33 in John Heise Autograph Catalog, no. 850 (February 1926): “Agreeable to your promise communicated by Mr. Samuel Curson we are to request you would furnish him with a sett of Exchange for Twenty Two Thousand Eight Hundred & fifty seven Livres Toumois & one seventh of a livre equal (at the exchange of nine hundred percent) to TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND CONTINENTAL DOLLARS for which sum we will furnish you with a Warrant on the Treasurer. The bills should be made payable to Messrs Curson & Gouveneur or order.” 2 Congress’ resolution authorizing the Board of War “to contract with Mr. Peter Penet, for himself, Windel & Co. for a suitable number of muskets,. . . and other arms, to be manufac tured in these states” amended a similar resolution of January 2 involving “Messrs. Penet & Couloux.”yCC, 13:16-17, 134. Although Penet’s original proposal did not specify a site for his “Continental manufactory,” a January 24 letter from him to Daniel Carroll indicates that he was interested in locating in Maryland. See JCC, 12:1059, 1167, 1185n; PCC, item
