February 2, 1779 7 41, 8:60-63; and Calendar of Maryland State Papers: The Red Books, 3 vols. (Annapolis: Hall of Records Commission, 1950-55), 3:51. For Penet’s negotiations with Virginia later in 1779, for locating his “Manufactory” on the James River, see also Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) 3:49-50, 70, 125-47. 3 For the report of the committee appointed on January 21, 1779, to review the January 19 report of the Committee on Appeals in the case of the sloop Active, see JCC, 13:86-92, 97, 134-37. 4 The committee’s minutes for this day simply list the members attending: “Present Whip ple, Ellery, Elsworth, Fell, Searle, McKean.” Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes, Capt. J. G. M. Stone Collection, Annapolis, Md. William Floyd to George Clinton S’r, Philadelphia Feb. 2d 1779. Inclosed I Send you a News papers which Contains the Chief of the News that is here, Except by a vessel Just arrived from Martinique in 13 days, and another at Baltimore in 10 days we are Informed, that the Count D’Estaing, Cruising in the West Indies in Expectation of meeting with the English, which went from New York last fall, unluckily mist of them; they went directly to St. Lucia and took that place, the Count Soon getting notice thereof went there; when he arrived, he found their Ships Covered with Such Strong Batteries that he did not think it proper to Risk his own to attack them, But Concluded to attack them by Land, for which purpose Landed his Troops, what number is uncertain, Some Say 5, 6, or more thousand men. The Count being apprehensive that Admiral Byron might arrive there with his fleet and be too Strong for him, which precipi tated him to attack them by Storming their Stronghold, he was Repulsed with very Considerable Loss, Some Say near 1500 men; 1 he Returned with the Remainder of his men and Ships to Martinique and is now Joyned by 6 Capitol Ships from France, and it is Said with Several Thou sand men; this augmentation of his navy will make him Superior to By ron, and Enable him to Strike the Enemy where he pleases, without being under a necessity of makeing any Rash attempts. The application you made to General Washington Sometime Since, with Respect to the Demands on the Commissary and Quarter master, and which they did not think them Selves authorised to pay, he laid before Congress, and they thereupon Resolved that the Commissary and Quartermaster be directed to pay all Such of those accounts as your Excellency Should Judge proper. 2 I am Sorry as well as Grieved, that I am not able to Inform you that Something is done in that Important affair of Vermont. There has nothing Important to our State, that has lately passed in Congress, the Grand Business which has for a Considerable time taken up their attention and is not yet finished, is the arranging and Recruiting our army.
