10 February 3, 1779 William Henry Drayton to Charles Lee Sir, Philadelphia, Feb. 3d, 1779. MY colleague, Mr. Hutson, hath this day mentioned to me, a conversa tion you had with him, in which you expressed yourself as injured by a misrepresentation of your conduct immediately preceding your captivity by the enemy, in a charge I had the honour to deliver, as Chief Justice, to the Grand Jury of Charlestown, South Carolina. 1 I must inform you, Sir, that, on the one hand, I have been repeatedly assured the representation I then made was a true one; and that, on the other hand, I have also been assured, that it was not founded on fact; and that, immediately upon this latter assurance in South Carolina, I took that step which was most likely to lead me to a certainty on the subject, with the avowed design, that if I had injured your reputation, I might be enabled to make the most ample reparation; but I did not receive the necessary materials. Those sentiments of propriety which dictated the first advance on my part then, to acquire them now dictate a like conduct when another opportunity seems to open itself for my arriving at truth, and to do that justice which the case may require. And I do assure you, that if I can be enabled to declare, that you did not violate the orders of the commander in chief, respecting your junction with him, when he had retreated to the Delaware in 1776, I shall not only do so in the most pointed terms, but beg your pardon for having, through error and misrep resentation, published the contrary. To this purpose, I wrote to Major Eustace on the 6th of January 1778, when I was in Charlestown, and had no prospect of coming to this part of the Continent; and a copy of the correspondence between him and myself on the occasion I will lay before you, if you desire to see it. Those principles of honour which must make you feel an injury, make me feel even an idea of having done an injury, and impels me to make a reparation where it is due. 2 I am, Sir, Your most obedient Servant, Wm. Henry Drayton. MS not found; reprinted from Charles Lee, Anecdotes of the Late Charles Lee, Esq., ed. Edward Langworthy (London: J.S. Jordan, 1797), pp. 49-50. First printed under the title Memoirs of the Life of the Late Charles Lee, Esq. (London: J. S. Jordan, 1792). 1 The hostility between General Lee and Drayton can be traced to June 1776 when the former assumed command of the defense of Charleston and tactlessly scoffed at suggestions offered by Drayton for the fortification of the city. Lee’s conduct in December 1776 subse quently provided Drayton the opportunity to criticize Lee’s generalship, which he exploited during his delivery of a charge to the grand jury of Charleston soon thereafter. Although Lee seized upon that incident to reopen his feud with Drayton, it seems probable that he had been moved to denounce Drayton to Richard Hutson because of the enmity Willian Henry had shown against him during Congress’ debate on the court-martial sen tence arising from Lee’s behavior at the battle of Monmouth. According to Edward Lang worthy, himself a participant in that debate and later the editor of Lee’s papers, Drayton’s conduct “was vituperated by Lee in the severest language, because he opposed in Congress a division of the several charges brought against him, but argued and insisted upon lumping them all together, to be decided by one question.” Ibid., p. 48. See also John R. Alden,
