18 February 3, 1779 Desire to become a Citizen of New York he gives our State the Preference and now visits your Excellency to make the Necessary Enquiries, it being out of our Power to give him any Information. The Necessity of strength- ning our Frontiers is as obvious, as the Policy of drawing the Attention of the People to that Quarter in Season. Virginia we learn has taken the Lead and already passed Laws for laying out a District of Country for Settlement, & assigning Farms for their own Soldiers, as well as those of Maryland, Delaware, and New Jersey. A Strong Predilection, however, prevails in favour of our State, on Account of its’ Situation for Trade, the acknowledgd Excellency of its’ Constitution, and the steady and vigorous Exertions of its’ Government; Nothing, we are persuaded, will be wanting for its rapid Settlement and Cultivation but a wise and liberal System for the Distribution of the publick Land. To you, Sir, or to our State, General Arnold can require no Recommen dation. A Series of distinguished Services entitle him to Respect and Fa vour. 1 To him, We beg leave to refer your Excellency for the Intelligence from the Southward and from the West Indies; from Europe we have none. We have the Honour to be with the highest Respect, Sir, your Excellen cy’s most obedient humble Servants, Wm. Floyd John Jay Fra. Lewis Jas Duane RC (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). Written by Duane, and signed by Duane, Floyd, Jay, and Lewis. 1 Although Benedict Arnold left Philadelphia early in February for New York, he turned back at Middlebrook, NJ., in order to return to Philadelphia to defend himself against charges brought by the Pennsylvania Council. He apparently never renewed this quest for land in New York. See Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton, January 26, 1779, note 2. Daniel Roberdeau to Joseph Reed Sir, Philada, Feb’y 3d, 1779. The Delegates of this State in Congress have just received your Excel- lencys favour of this date, 1 and I am desired by them to inform the Hon orable the Council, through you, that they have not the least reason to think the Military command in this City was changed before General Arnold left it, as no other measures have been taken of their complaint than mentioned in yr Excellency’s Letter, as the Committee on the Busi ness have not yet reported.. In behalf of my Colleagues, I am, most re spectfully, yr Excellencys most obt & very humb. Servt, Daniel Roberdeau. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:181. 1 No letter from President Reed to the Pennsylvania delegates of this date has been found, but for what appears to be a similar request for information, directed to the chairman of the committee appointed to study Pennsylvania’s charges against Gen. Benedict Arnold, see William Paca to Joseph Reed, February 18, 1779, note 2.
