February 4, 1779 19 William Henry Drayton to Benjamin Lincoln Sir . Phil. Feb. 4, 1779. Lieut Colonel de Cambray will have the honor to deliver this to you. And as he enables me to pay my compliments to you, it is with pleasure I make use of the opportunity to recommend him to your Notice. He is a Gentleman, & bears the reputation of a good officer. 1 While I am sensible of the difficulties you have encountered in making head against the Enemy & am concerned at the trouble this has occa sioned to you, I am happy in having the most perfect confidence in your abilities to exert the force you have collected to the best advantage. Arms, ammunition, money & Pulaski with his Legion are sent on to give you farther strength, & the States of N. Carolina & Virginia are called upon in the most pressing terms to aid you. By the Blessing of God, I trust you will relieve the Public & add to your high reputation. I am with respect Sir, Your most obedt Sert Wm. Hy. Drayton RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). 1 See also Henry Laurens to Lincoln, February 5, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Thursday. Feby 4th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Watkins Commissary of Purchases with his Resignation Referrd to the Board of Warr. Resolved that the Commander in Chief arrange the Relative Rank of Officers, under the degree of Brigad Generals.(committed to the Board of Warr). Letter from Mr Bingham at Martinico, giving an Account of the British taking the Island of St Lucia and of Count DeEstangs repulse, in endeavoring to retake it. 1 6 P.M. Committee on foreign affairs. MS (DLC). 1 Congress actually received letters of December 5, 20, 25, and 31, 1778, and January 6, 1779, from William Bingham, which were read on February 4 and 6 and referred to a committee on the sixth. The news of the French defeat at St. Lucia reported by Bingham led Congress to forego asking d’Estaing for naval aid in the southern war theater for fear France would seek recompense under the terms of article four of the Franco-American treaty of alliance. SeeJCC, 13:147, 150, 153; and John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard February 5 1779, note. ’ Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir 4th February [1779] Since I closed my Letter of the 31st Ulto. which will accompany this, I have been honored with Your Excellency’s despatch under the 15 Ulto
