February 6, 1779 25 restoring the Value & Credit of the Remainder. It would therefore be a happy Event if every possessor of them would receive Loan office Certifi cates for them instead of new Bill in June next but this cannot be ex pected. In proportion as this may be done the only effectual Means, be sides that of taxing which I hope will be chearfully submitted to by the People, of remedying the great Evil will have its effect. Congress have not cried down those Emissions, as the Expression is, or resolvd that the Bill should sink in the Hands of those who would not exchange them for Loan Office Certificates, as has been done in the Eastern States. This might have been to[o] harsh a Remedy. They have left it in the Option of the Possessors to receive either such Certificates or new Bills. This is the obvi ous Intention of their Resolutions on the Subject. The Wish of every discerning honest Man must be as obvious, viz that as many of the Bills may sink in the Loan offices as the People can possibly spare, and as soon as possible. I think therefore you have judgd right of their Views. It would be an Act of Charity and a great Service to the publick if those who can afford to put their Money to Interest would ease their poorer fellow Citi zens who are possessed of those Bills, by exchanging them for other Bills without a Discount. I am &c FC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Winthrop’s January 21 letter to Adams is not in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. John Fell’s Diary Saturday Feby 6. [1779] Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Long debates about the manner of sending for Count DeEstang. Congress agreed to Dine at the City Tavern being the Aniversary of the French Alliance. 1 MS (DLC). 1 The dinner to celebrate the French alliance was also the subject of Samuel Holten’s diary entry for this day: “Saturday. Being the anniversary of the alliance with france, Congress dined at the city tavern & the minister of france, & several other Gent, of distinction dined with us.” MDaAr. On February 9 John Dunlap printed the following account of this celebration dinner in the Pennsylvania Packet. “Last Saturday being the anniversary of forming the Alliance between France and the United States, the Honorable the Congress gave a public entertainment to his Excellency the Minister Plenipotentiary of his Most Christian Majesty, at which the following Toasts were drank, under a discharge of cannon: 1. May the Alliance between France and the United States be perpetual. 2. The United States. 3. His Most Christian Majesty. 4. The Queen of France. 5. His Most Catholic Majesty. 6. The Princes of the House of Bourbon.
