26 February 6, 1779 7. Success to the allied arms. 8. General Washington and the Army. 9. The friends of liberty in every part of the world. 10. May the new Constellation rise to the Zenith. 11. May the American Stripes bring Great-Britain to reason. 12. The memory of the Patriots who have nobly fallen in defence of the liberty and independence of America. 13. A safe and honorable peace. “The chearfulness which existed in the company upon the happy occasion of their being assembled, was not to be exceeded; and a thousand brilliances alluding to the Alliance were uttered. There can be no doubt but that every true American and every true Frenchman will contribute his efforts to preserve that connection which is formed by the Alliance, and which is so necessary to the happiness and aggrandizement of both nations. Their mutual interests dictate such a conduct in the strongest and most affectionate terms. The principles of the Alliance are founded in true policy and equal justice; and it is highly probable that mankind will have cause to rejoice in this union which has taken place between two nations; the one, the most puissant in the old, and the other the most powerful in the new world.” Daniel Roberdeaji to Timothy Matlack Dr Sir, Saturday, 6th February, 1779. Have you remembered to present the President of Congress with the hand Bill? 1 the one directed to the Delegates of N. York was delivered to another Member of that State, from the hint you gave of yr Intention to furnish the President. This to remind you we pray excuse. Yrs, D. Roberdeau MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:184. 1 This “hand Bill” contained eight charges the Pennsylvania Council had marshaled against Gen. Benedict Arnold, for which see illustration, a reproduction of item no. 16,439, Evans, Am. Bibliography. These officials had opened their assault on Arnold with the single charge that he had used public wagons for transporting privately owned goods from which he profited, but they quickly expanded their attack, adding seven charges to the original complaint lodged with Congress on January 25 and ordering them printed and circulated to the states. To give even wider publicity to Arnold’s offenses, they also ordered, on February 8, “That the Resolves of this Council of the 3d instant, respecting Gen’l Arnold, be published in the several Newspapers of this City.” See Pennsylvania Packet, February 9, 1779; Pa. Council Minutes, 11:690, 692; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:183-84; John Jay to Joseph Reed, January 27; and William Paca to Joseph Reed, March 3, 1779. Virginia Delegates to Joseph Reed Sir, Philadelphia, Feb. 6th, 1779. The underwritten, Delegates in Congress for the State of Virginia, pur suant to their Instructions, inclose you herein the Resolves of the Gen’l
