February 6, 1779 27 In COUNCIL. rbifaJe/pbu, February ^d, 1779. Present, His Excellency Joseph Reed, Efq. Prefident, Hon. George Bryan, Efq. Vice Prefident, Col. Jofeph Hart, John Macky, James M l Lene, James Read, John Hambright, and 'Rhomas Scott, Efquires. T H 1 S Board having maturely eonfidered the general tenor and courfe of the military command exrtrifed by Major Gc- neral Arnold. tn this City and State t and divers tranfadiont which have appeared to this Board, during hit com mand, do R'ftkv, unanimoufiy, FirJ!, That the fame hath been in many rcfpefU opprefliie to the faithful fubjcils of this State, unworthy of his rank and Ration, highly dikouragmg to thole who have manifefted their attachment to the liberties and interefts of America, arid ditre- fpcf I Id I to the Supreme Executive Authority of the State. Wherefore Rejtfaed unanimoufiy. Second, That nothing hut the moR urgent and preffing neceffity can juftify or induce thia Board to call forth any waggons or nulitia, or otherwiie fubject the good people of this Scale, to the power of the (aid General ArntU within the Sate, Cbould he rrliime it upon bis return. Third, Ordered, That the Attorney General do psofccute the £uid Genera) Armid, for fuch illegal end oppreffive conduA as ia cognizable in the Courts of Law. And that this Board may not be fuppofed cajiable of palling the above refolves upon mere general grounds, and more efpeci- at|y m the cafe of one who has formerly diftinguifhed himfeif in public fcrvice, they think proper to declare that the conbdera- tion laft mentioned, has hitherto reftiained them from taking proper notice of General Armed, hoping that every unworthy tranfaflion would be the laft, or that a becoming fenfe of fuch improprieties, would -effed an alteration of conduct but finding that tenderneft has only led to infult and farther oppreffion, duty to the State, regard tn the interefts and happmefs of the good people thereof, who mull be affefted by all abuies of power, tSblige us thus to take notice thereof, and farther declare, that the laid Refolves are founded upon the following articles, in which they have fuSicient grounds to efteem General Arnold culpable. I. That while in the camp of General H'aJhingUn at l'allej-Fwfe, lift fpring, he gave permiffion to a velle! belonging to per- fons then voluntarily residing in this city with the enemy, and of dilaffedted characler, to come to a port of the United States, without the knowledge of the authority of the State, or of the Commander in Chief, though then prefent. 1. In having fhut up the (lores and Chops on his vrival in the city, fo as even to prevent officcgs ot the army from purchaf ing, white he privately made conftderablc purchafcs for his own benefit, as is allcdged and believed. 3. In impofing menial offices upon the fans of freemen of this Sate, when called*forth by the defire of CongreG to perform militia duty, and when remonflrated to hereupon, juilifying himfeif in writing upon the ground of having power fo to do, for that, “ whenacitnxn afiumed the charafler of a foldter, the former was >mirely|>ft in the latter^ Zd't^pt it waa the duty of.. the militia to obey n-ero order of his Aids (not a breach of the laws and conftitutfon) as his (tha (petal's) without judging of “ the propriety of them.” \ 4. For that when a prize wax brought into this port by the Convention brig of tHia. State, wh^on a depute arofe refpect- ing«he capture, which would otherwiie, in great probability, have beenamkaMy adjufted between the cWmants, Genera) Arnold interpofed by an illegal and unworthy purchafe of the foir. at a low and inadequate price, as be baa been publicly charged by a reputable citizen, to which may in fame degree be afettbed the delay of juft ice tn the Courts of Appeals, and the dilute in which the State may probably be involved with Congicfs hereupon. 5. The appropriating the wsggons of this State when called forth upon a fpecia) emergency faft Autumn, to the tranlporta- tion of pthate property, and that of perfarts who voluntarily remained with the enemy bit wimcr^ were Reined diteffeOed to the interefts and independence of "» 6. )n that Congrefs by a irMve of the atft ol Auguft lafl, having given to the executive powers of every ftate, anexdufiw power to recommend perfoni deGroua of going witbin the enemy's lines, to the officer there commanding; Genera) Armed in order, as may rcafonsbiy be interred, to elude the Gid refolve, wrote a letter, as appears by comparifon of bands, and the de claration of the intended hearet, recommendatory fot the above purpofe, and caufed h’is Aid du Camp, Major Chrtyn, to fign the fame; but the faid device not taking effed. through the vigilance of the officers at Eio.oluilt-ttwn, Genera) Arnold, without dilclofing any of rhe above circumftances, applwd to Council for their permiflion, which was Inftantly refuted > the conneaions, chaiader, and frtuation of the party being well known, and deemed utterly improper >0 be indulged with fuch permiffionj thereby vinhting the refolve of Congrefs, and uforping the authority of this Board. 7. This Board having, upob the complaint of fcveral inhabitant. ofCheflcr county, through the late Waggon .Mailer Ge- neral re^Jled of (be (aid General Arnold tn Hate the laid iranfaa.on relpeamg the waggons, in order that they might fetisfy the complainants, nr explain the fame w.tbout farther trouble, received, in return, sn indecent and d.frefpeafui refuM of any fatisfadtion whatfoevei. 8. The difcouragcnicnt and negted manifelLd by Genera) Arnold during h W command, to civil, snihury, and other charac-.h„ ... a a, a...»«k .. .i»r. rf .n.*., w.™., ,0 n.a prerf <« in»«mio» . .»> If <h.. k» Wen. « l, a four „ .toullud puurul. ,»< » A. IM..S Su..,. «. d-Ur. », ib.ll PO -I pinccs thus incurred. , . . On confideration, Ordered, That as the waggon, font by Gene.al Arndd to £ it ^^ the State, and the waggoners not being able to procure payment, either from the Qp.rter-Mafter’.d.p.nment, or from Generd Am,id, who 1. departed from thia city whde the complaint agamft him wm depending, and they being in great nwdSty, this Board ought ro relieve them fo far a, to advance four hundred and fifty pounds until they can procure farther redreii. And that Jerdan the Waggon-Maftcr, give » fpecial receipt to be accountable therefor. Entrap frtm lb* Mnntn, T. M A TEA C K, Stcrtiars. k, r k « n c i s n l in. a Pennsylvania’s Charges against Gen. Benedict Arnold February 3, 1779
