28 February 6, 1779 Assembly of that State, which they request you to lay before the Legisla ture of this State. 1 We are very respectfully, Sir, Your most obedt Servt, Tho’s Adams Meriwether Smith Cyrus Griffin MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:184-85. 1 As requested, Reed transmitted the Virginia delegates’ enclosure to the Pennsylvania Assembly in a letter of February 9. Ibid., p. 189. The enclosure was undoubtedly a resolve of the Virginia House of Delegates of December 12, which declared that “as the confusion, from the doubtful jurisdiction in the county adjacent to the disputed territory, may produce the most dangerous consequences to the common cause of America; . .. the Virginia delegates in Congress, be empowered and instructed to propose to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to appoint commissioners on their part, to meet commissioners to be appointed by the Assembly of this Commonwealth, ... to fix on the true and proper boundaries between the said States.” Journal of the House of Delegates of the Commonwealth of Virginia, 1777-81 (Rich mond, 1827), October-December 1778, p. 112. For additional information on this issue, see Meriwether Smith to Patrick Henry, November 4, 1778, note 1; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:669. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 7th Feby 1779 I thank you for the information contained in Your favor of 24th Deer, last which is the last letter I have received from you. 1 Col. Beadle’s Regi ment is dismiss’d. 2 I need not inform you of the difficulty of procuring a just enquiry into the conduct of an Officer at a distance from the Army, this I suppose occasion’d the act of Congress impowering the executive authority of the several States for that purpose. 3 I wish it was done by N.H. in this instance, I have no doubt there has been great abuses com- mited in that country, &. I know of no power so competent to investigate the true state of matters there as the executive authority of the State. The plan of finance has reached you I suppose some time ago, You’ll observe the Quota of N.H. is not so high in proportion as last Year. I procured this abatement not because I thought the sum more than the state would be able to raise but because You might be more at liberty to act Your discretion, however I hope you will raise a much larger sum, as you will be allowed interest for all you raise above Your just proportion, & there can be no better time to collect money than when it is plenty. I hope some other method will be divised to help our Currency, what is already done can be nothing more than mere palliatives. The transactions relative to the British Commission &c are not yet finished. I shall do myself the pleasure of sending them to you as soon as they come from the press. 4 I have inquired of the Jersey Gentn respecting the man you mention, and they know of no such person. 5 I think it very probable he is an imposture and ought at least to be well watched. The
