February 8, 1779 31 RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). Tr (DNA: PCC, item 79). 1 See John Fell’s Diary, February 5, 1779, note 2. 2 These packets for Benjamin Franklin were forwarded by Lovell through the Baltimore mercantile firm of Curson & Gouverneur, which was represented in St. Eustatius by Samuel Curson. See these Letters, 6:291-93. Lovell enclosed them in the following brief note to Curson & Gouverneur of February 10, 1779: “I intreat your care to forward these packets for Doctor Franklin by the first conveyance that offers, if to be trusted. They are important. You will use your own discretion about Sending them to Mr. Bingham. I wish them Soon in France.” PCC, item 79, fol. 249. 3 In the Tr the letter closes: “Signed James Lovell, for the Come, for F. Affairs.” William Henry Drayton to Charles Lee Sir, Philadelphia, Feb. 8th, 1779. At nine o’clock last night, I received yours of the fifth instant, in answer to mine of the third. But, as I have neither time or inclination to enter into a competition, whether Mr. Charles Lee, or Mr. William Henry Drayton, can raise the most ingenious supposition, say the keenest thing, and pen the most finished period with parenthesis; nor ambition to correspond with you in your simple character of Mr. Charles Lee, whom I cannot consider but as legally disgraced for being guilty of abominable military treason against a community of the most liberal, just, and generous, and, I must add, merciful people on the face of the globe: I say, perfectly satisfied with my simple character of Mr. William Henry Drayton, “a mere common member of Congress,” and “a mere Chief Justice of South Carolina,” I shall do myself the honour, out of breath as I am with paren theses, to make only one observation in reply, absolutely terminating the correspondence on my part, That I verily believe we equally remain en tirely indifferent with respect to what either is “pleased to think or dream.” And now, finally taking my leave of Mr. Charles Lee, 1 with common decency from respect to my simple character, I subscribe myself, Sir, Your most obedient Servant, Wm. Henry Drayton. MS not found; reprinted from Charles Lee, Anecdotes of the Late Charles Lee, Esq., ed. Edward Langworthy (London: J. S. Jordan, 1797), p. 53. 1 Lee’s March 15 reply to this letter is in Anecdotes of the Late Charles Lee, pp. 54-55. John Fell’s Diary Monday. Feby 8th. [1779] Commercial Comittee 9 oClock. Congress. A number of Letters Read; A Memorial from Lt Coll Varick in behalf of himself and the Officers in the Muster Masters department—Referrd to the Board of Warr. A Me morial from Dr Shippen in behalf of himself and the other Doctors, Re-
