34 February 8, 1779 This is a Subject which in my Opinion is to be treated with great delicacy. New York has credit for her Exertions to supply the army & the exhausted State of her resources is known. It is nevertheless hoped that she may be able to give some Releif to her starving Sister, & every motive of humanity & policy will advise it if practicable. Care however ought to be taken of our own Inhabitants, and the Releif, if afforded, should be so regulated as to prevent that amazing Exportation, & intolerable Rise in the price of Provision, which would follow an incautious tho’ partial Re fusal of the Embargo. Nor would it, I think, be wise to go into any mea sures in consequence of this recommendation without having previously consulted with the Commissary General, as well as with Connecticut; with the former, on the State of his Magazines, with the latter on the Subject of a joint plan. Unless there be an overplus to be spared from the Necessities of the army, & the Consumption of the Inhabitants all ought to be re tained. If there be an Overplus in both States, would it be amiss for the Commissary to purchase & collect it at the Expence of Rhode-Island, & let the Government of that State cause it to be transported, and provide for its due distribution. The Poor of that State will otherwise be at the mercy of Engrossers, and, like the wretched Egyptians, under the viceger- ency of Joseph, be obliged to give their hand for corn. I am, Dear Sir, Your Friend & Servant, John Jay. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:552-53. 1 For Governor Clinton’s letter of February 18 to the New York legislature enclosing the “Act of Congress” referred to here by Jay, see ibid., p. 580. John Jay to George Clinton and Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia 8th Feby. 1779. In consequence of the Representation made of the distress of the State of Rhode-Island for want of Provision, Congress have this day passed an Act of which the enclosed is a Copy, 1 requesting the States of Connecticut & New-York, to afford them such Supplies as their Necessities call for, so far as their circumstances will admit, & under such Regulations as may best answer the End proposed. I have the Honor to be Sir, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obed & H. Servt. J- J- LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To His Excellency Governor Clinton.” Endorsed: “N.B. The like verbatim to Govr. Trumbull.” ■ JCC, 13:151-52.
