42 February 9, 1779 William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 9th Feb 1779 My last viz No 10 I think was very short, 1 since which I have not been favored with any of yours. I some time ago desired to know if any small vessels could be procured to come this way for flour and iron, but not hearing from you on that subject, have been endeavoring to procure or ders from the M. C. 2 for vessels to be sent to this place and Baltimore and have at last succeeded. This Post carries orders to the Navy Board at Boston to send five vessels this way for the above purpose, 3 two of which they will apply to you for, in consequence of my representation that two such cargoes at least would be wanted at Portsmouth—for reasons need less for me to mention I hope the vessels from Portsmouth will be procured on at least as good terms as the others. Vessels have been freighted to Boston from hence for one quarter of what they can carry, each party risking his own property—in this case the vessels have loaded wholly with fl our —whether there ought to be any difference with iron you will judge. I have lately heard vessels cannot be had at Boston on those terms; how ever of that you will also judge at any rate I think it will be better to take them on a share than pay a certain freight and insure the vessel. For news I must refer you to the papers—the European powers are busy with nego tiations—it is very probable proposals from Britain will reach us in the Spring—she will not have vanity enough to make them but on the princi ples of Independence, but will she give up the Sovereignty of Canada and Nova Scotia, that will stick in her stomach, but she must swallow it. Are you willing to share the Floridas with Spain on condition of her furnishing us with funds to sink our paper money? Perhaps France and Russia may settle the dispute between the Emperor and the King of Prussia—all these events are in the womb of fate but the general struggles may bring them forth shortly. Adieu yours, W.W. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). Although Peter Force’s transcriber captioned this letter “Wm. Whipple to Josiah Bartlett,” it is clear from its content and the reference to Whipple’s letter no. 10 cited in note one below that the recipient was John Langdon. 1 William Whipple’s letter “No. 10,” dated February 2, 1779, simply stated: “As I have none of your favours to reply to nor news to give you, being also in a hurry I shall only ask your permission to call this No 10—Beg the favor of you to deliver the inclosed letters & inclose a few Barren News Papers.” John Langdon Papers, PHi. 2 That is, the Marine Committee. 3 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, February 10, 1779. Samuel Adams to Samuel A. Otis Dear Sir Philade Feby 10 1779 The Late Mr Andrews 1 before his sudden & unexpected Death had written to a young Kinsman of mine in this place, Mr Richard Checkley,
