February 11, 1779 49 have in veiw, and it is under this state of the case that I am by the direction of this Committee to inform your Excellency that Captain Har ding will receive orders to Obey you, and take your directions for the government of his conduct in the proposed expedition, but not to exceed ten [days] after the Sailing of his Ship from New London in the said expedition tho should the service be performed in a shorter time the Cap tain is then to proceed with the Utmost dispatch agreeable to your Instructions. I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys most Obedt, Hble servant, S. Adams Chairman LB (DNA: PCG Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 In his January 22 letter to the Eastern Navy Board, which the board had forwarded in a January 27 letter to the Marine Committee, Trumbull had proposed an attack on British shipping at Huntington Harbor, Long Island. Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. Samuel Adams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philad Feb 6 [11] 79 1 The Marine Come have done themselves the Honor of writing to you by this Post. The great Dammage which has been done to the Trade at the Southward & particularly Chessapeak Bay by the Enemies Privateers has causd such pressing Demands for the Aid of our Ships of War as laid us under the Necessity of ordering the Queen of france immediately on a Cruize that Way. This I mention as a Reason why she could not be employed with the Confederacy & the other Ships but her Destination will remain a Secret. I hope the Expedition proposd by your Excy & agreed to by the Come will be performed in 2 or 3 Days, for I fear if it Should be known to the Enemy, not only the desired Event wd be pre vented but there would be danger of our losing our Ships. I have only time to beg the favor of your Excy to forward the inclosd by the first Oppty by the post or otherwise. FC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Although Adams clearly dated the draft of this letter “Feb 6 79,” and it is printed with that date in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:120-21, he apparently redated the recipient copy of it February 11, 1779. Paul C. Richards Catalog, 151 (September 1981), item 85. Moreover, the Marine Committee letter referred to here as being written “to you by this Post” is clearly the preceding entry. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philade Feb 11, 1779 Will you be so kind as to present my due Regards to Mrs Warren and let her know that immediately upon my receiving her Letter for Miss
