February 11, 1779 51 [TY] Pay my due Regards to your Circle in Plymouth. Are you ac quainted with Mr D? 2 I mentiond him to you in a former Letter as an excellent Republican & recommended him warmly to your Friendship. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 That is, Samuel Cooper. 2 Probably Francis Dana, who was discussed in Warren’s February 28 response to this letter. Warren-Adams Letters, 2:92. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Philadelphia May it please your Excellency. Feby. 11th, 1779. Your first enquiry, we presume will be, how goes on Confederation? We have the pleasure to inform you that Jersey and Deleware have acceded— and Maryland alone stands out—her reasons for it we enclose to you, and whether we shall send to all the States for their consent to a Confederation of twelve, or wait for Maryland to consider better of it, and acceed, will be the most expeditious, and prudent method of bringing this important business to a close, is the question. Recruiting, providing for, arranging and paying the Army, have long engaged the attention of Congress. These are all important objects, & notwithstanding the present deranged state of our foreign affairs, and internal resources, and the reduced condition of our finances, we hope and trust that such wise measures will be adopted and supported by the united exertions of the several States as, will through the smiles of Heaven, put them upon a firm and respectable footing. The Committee appointed to confer with Gen. Washington on this business have prepared a number of resolutions to lay before Congress, which when passed, we shall embrace the earliest opportunity to transmit to your Excellency. The Resolution passed upon the Representation from the State of Rhode Island, of their inhabitants being likely to famish, through the operation of the land embargo in Connecticut, has been transmitted by the President. 1 Although Mr Dean has long since been heard on his agency abroad, yet his affairs remain undecided upon—a Committee is appointed to look through them, in order to bring them to a proper and speedy issue. The misunderstanding which subsisted amongst our Commissioners when abroad, & the unfavorable insinuations given respecting the merit of each other, have excited (to say no more) the caution of Congress, at least of many of the members in regard to their transactions abroad. Mr Dean’s publication & the reply of Common Sense, particularly that part which asserted that he had in his hands a letter, which shewed that the supplies Mr Dean so pompously plumed himself upon—were all promised and engaged, and that as a present, before his arrival in France &c proved a
