52 February 11, 1779 source of great embarrassment and difficulty—alarmed the French Em bassador for the interest and reputation of his Court, which he considered would be disagreably affected thereby—he remonstrated to Congress on the subject, who passed a Resolve that those supplies were received in the way of trade, and not as a present from the Court of France. We doubt not but it will appear that Mr Dean has done much for, & deserved much of his Country, and that he will be properly considered. The King’s speech with debates in Parliament as far as they have come to hand—the latest'advices from the Southward and West Indies—& the unhappy controversy that has arisen between the President and Council of this State & Genl. Arnold are contained in the enclosed News papers, to which we refer you. The rate of exchange for bills on France, as sold by Mr Holker, their Agent, is £900 Continental money for £100 Sterling. Authentic intelligence has been reed in Congress from Europe, of high importance & in appearance far from being unfavorable to America, which we are not at liberty to communicate at present. With the highest esteem & respect—We have the honor to be Your Excellency’s most obedient & most hble. Servts Elipht Dyer. Oliver Ellsworth. Jesse Root Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 See John Jay to Jonathan Trumbull, February 8; and Rhode Island Delegates to Wil liam Greene, February 9, 1779, note 1. John Fell’s Diary Thursday Feby. 11th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters read and Referrd to Committee. Aron Lopezs Memorial relating to 2 Prizes, Referrd to the Committee of Appeals, Memorial of Capt. Cellorine to the Board of Warr. 1 Do of Sarah Kennedy for the loss of her Estate, Referrd to the Treasury Board. Letter from Genl Gates wth an Acct, of the Enemy at several Posts in Canada 2952 above Montreal 3922. 2 Letter from Jere miah Powell President of Masachusets Bay giving an Acct of Coll David Mason and others great defaulters of the Public Money at the Labratory at Springfield Referrd to the Commander in Chief to bring the defaulters to a Court Martial. 3 Mr Laurens moved the House that he was fully satisfied in the Affair relating to Mr. R Morris, and declared him clear of all Suspicion to which the House unanamously agreed. An order from the Treasury for Coll Flowers’s department causd great debate and his Car- ractor Canvasd which appeard good. MS (DLC). 1 For the Board of War’s report on the memorial of Lewis Celeron, see JCC, 13:215.
