58 February 12, 1779 Polaskas Letter to Recruit his Infantry to their full Establishment not agreed to. 2 MS (DLC). 1 For the case of Lieutenant Hele, see John Jay to Christopher Hele, February 16, 1779. 2 In responding to a query from the Board of War on the meaning of a February 4 resolve concerning Casimir Pulaski, Congress declared this day that he was authorized to recruit the infantry of his corps only “to their original establishment.” See JCC, 13:143, 179, 181;John Jay to Gerard de St. Eime, February 16, 1779, note 2; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpat rick), 14:79. Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes Feby. 12th 1779 Present Whipple, Elsworth, Duane, Searle, Paca, McKeen, Laurens. Continuation of Mr. Deans Narrative. Finished the narrative. Read some of the Instructions. 1 MS (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). In the hand of William Whipple. 1 This is the final entry of any substance in Whipple’s minutes of the committee’s proceed ings. His entry for February 15, which concludes the section of the minutes that are known to have survived, reads simply: “Present Whipple, Elsworth, Fell, Duane, McKeen, Laurens, Langworthy.” Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir 12th February [1779] Colonel L’Aumoy the Gentleman who will have the honor of presenting my present respects to Your Excellency, is ordered by the Commander in Chief to South Carolina to act under General Lincolns orders in the Southern Department in the Corps of Engineers, from his rank he will take the command of that branch. 1 Colonel L’Aumoy is highly esteemed in the Army for his bravery and skill as an Officer, and his manners as a Gentleman. I flatter myself with an assurance that I have done my Country service by the acquisition of his abilities, more especially from this consideration that as he is well ac quainted with our Sea Coast, he will be able to apply them more immedi ately to good effect than an Engineer of equal skill, but a Stranger to our Country, would be. I beg leave Sir to recommend him to your counte nance and protection. I have the honor to be &c H.L. [RS.] A Schooner loaded with about 18 Tons of Military Stores, which the Commissary of that Department has consigned to the Commanding Offi-
