76 February 16, 1779 gates of that State. They assured me that the Govrs refusing to grant a Permit to Mr Shepperd for the Transportation of Flour from thence must have been owing to the real & very great Scarcity of that Article there; and they desired me to satisfy you in that point, fearing that it m[igh]t be supposd to arise from other Motives. 1 I will consult with my Colleagues and if any Means can be used by us to ensure Success to your Application from that Quarter you may depend upon our Exertion. I am inclined to think that Govr C, 2 who in my Opinion is a truly good Man, is apprehensive of being imposd upon by Speculators, unless he uses great Caution, and he may perhaps not be fully apprisd of your acting under the express Authority & Commission of Massachusetts State. And yet I shd suppose your Letter to him would have been sufficient without authenticated Documents manifesting your Appointment. South Carolina is at so great a Distance that no Interposition of ours could avail, if it was necessary in the present Instance, but I am of Opin ion there will be no Difficulty there in Case your Vessel arrives, the Em bargo being over. I will write to Mess P in B 3 & endeavor, shd there be any Obstruction there to get them removd. A Come of Con have under Consideration a Letter from the Council of M B on the Subject of provi sions, & I am informd they are ready to make Report. 4 If any thing shd occur which will make it expedient for me to write you further I shall not omit the first Oppty. In the mean time I am &c. FC (NN: Adams Papers). Addressed by Adams: “The Board of War in Boston.” 1 The Massachusetts Board of War had requested permission to import flour “overland” from New York in a December 15, 1778, letter to Governor Clinton. Clinton, Papers (Has tings), 4:390. For additional information on this subject, see ibid., pp. 489-90, 515-16, 569-70; and John Jay to George Clinton, February 8, 1779. 2 That is, George Clinton. 3 Adams’ letter to Samuel and Robert Purviance of Baltimore has not been found. 4 See Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council, February 9, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday Feby. 16th [1779] Commercial Committee 9 oC. Congress. Great debates relating to Genl Arnold, a motion for Suspending him, agreed to Postpone the motion till the Committee brought in their Report. A Representation from the As sembly of Pennsylvania to their Delegates in Congress, Relating to the Distresses of the Frontier Inhabitants. Letter from Govr Clinton of New York, and One from Govr Turnbull, Connecticut all to the same Purport. Referrd to the Committee of Conferrence. Letter from the Govr of Vir ginia concerning the Convention Troops, referrd to their Delegates. Corn £10 to £15 Per Barrell. Dined with Coll Griffin. 1 MS (DLC). 1 Virginia delegate Cyrus Griffin.
