80 February 16, 1779 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 13:179. For the capture of Lieutenant Hele and the efforts of Adm. James Gambier to secure his release, see Henry Laurens to John Beatty, November 7, 1778. For Hele’s subsequent efforts to gain his freedom, which resulted in his parole in May 1779, and his frustration when Congress subsequently made his formal release conditional upon the ex change of Capt. Gustavus Conyngham, see JCC, 13:410, 424, 14:614, 838, 941, 15:1086, 1373, 16:72. 2 This day Jay also wrote a brief letter to Col. Thomas Hartley signifying that Congress had accepted his resignation. JCC, 13:180; and PCC, item 14, fols. 51-52. John Jay to Robert R. Livingston Dear Robert Philadelphia, 16 Feb. 1779 Your Favor of the 3d Inst, came to Hand this morning. 1 The Satisfac tion my Letter afforded you flatters as well as pleases me. It argues a Remembrance of former Times; for which & other Reasons I shall give you no more opportunities of joining the assembly of Angels in rejoicing over penitent Mortals. Not that I mean, on the one Hand, to enter the State of Reprobation & become a hardned Sinner, or on the other enlist with those Saints who slip not with their Feet. This Letter, written on the very Day I reed. Yours, will be some Evidence of my having gone thro the whole Process of Amendment. Divines you know describe it as consisting of Conviction, Contrition, and Conversion. Whether I shall persevere or not, is a Subject on which Time will utter the surest Prophecies. The Complections of Resignation, soft Complaint, and joyless Sensibil ity, are so blended in your Letter, that (if anonymous) one would suppose it written by a wayworn Traveller thro’ this Vale of Tears, who journey ing towards his distant Heaven, thro sultry Heats and dreary Paths, at Length lays his languid Limbs under some friendly Shade, and permits the Effusions of his Soul to escape in words. My Friend a mind unbraced and Nerves relaxed are not fit Company for each other. It was not a Man whom the Poet tells us “pined in Thought and sat like Patience on a monument smiling at Grief.” In such rugged Times as these other Sensa tions are to be cherished. Rural Scenes, domestic Bliss, and the charming Group of Pleasures found in the Train of Peace, fly at the approach of War, and are seldom to be found in Fields stained with Blood, or Habita tions polluted by outrage and Desolation. I admire your Sensibility, nor would I wish to see less Milk in your Veins—you would be less amiable. In my Opinion however your Reasoning is not quite just. I think a Mans Happiness requires that he should Condescend to keep himself free from Fleas and Wasps, as well as Thiefs and Robbers. When the present Session of your Legislature is ended, take a Ride and see us. You will find many here happy to see you. Morris has not forgotten you, and I will answer for his Memory on that Subject. He is busy and useful, more busy indeed than most others—for besides the Affairs of Con gress, he is daily employed in making Oblations to Venus and Sacrifices to
