February 16, 1779 81 Aculapius. Remember this is to be translated in the best Sense, and not so construed as to mean Vice or P—x. The Report arising from Hakes Importations has no Currency here. 2 If it should, I shall put your Mark of Counterfiet upon it. I have heard Nothing of that Business since I left you, except Capt. Banckers telling me that some of the goods had been discovered and seized. If Hake deserved half the Censure bestowed upon him by those, who ought to have known him, he had a Right only to that Species of Politeness which Gentlemen practice to keep men of that Character at a Distance. I have something, tho not very interesting, to say to you on the Subject of Politics, but as it is now very late, and I have been writing Letters ever since Dinner, I am really too much fatigued to proceed. Make my Com pliments to Mrs. Livingston, who I presume is with You. Adieu, I am your Frd. and Servt, John Jay. P.S. You say Nothing of Edward. 3 RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston’s February 3 letter to Jay is in Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 549-51. 2 For Samuel Hake’s “Importations,” see ibid., p. 551n.l. 3 That is, Edward Livingston. John Jay to Jeremiah Powell Sir, Philadelphia 16th Feby. 1779. I have the Pleasure of acknowledging the Receipt of your Favor of the 14th Ulto, which was immediately committed, & of the 16th Ulto. which together with the Papers enclosed in it have been transmitted to His Ex cellency Genl. Washington, with directions to cause the Officers charged with Delinquency at Springfield to be tryed by a Court Martial. 1 I have the Honor to be Sir, Your most Obedt & Hble Servt. JJ- LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 13:130, 163; and Jay to Washington, February 15, 1779. The Massachusetts Council’s letter of January 14 is in PCC, item 65, 1:368-70. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Philada. Feby. 16. 1779 Though I have this day for the first time received a Letter from your husband, yet I feel chagrined at not having had one inclosed for you. I had promised myself the pleasure of being instrumental to your happiness in that way, frequently. He dates from Passy Deer. 6th 1 and acknowledges the Receipt of an official Letter from Me of Octr. 12 but says not a
