February 16, 1779 85 [PA.] I expect the Navy Board at Boston will speedily have a supply of money. 3 Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Not found. 2 See Whipple to Langdon, February 20, 1779. Stephen Collins was administering the estate of William Barrell, a New Hampshire merchant who had died in Philadelphia in 1776. Barrell’s papers and Collins’ substantial correspondence on the settlement of his estate are in the Stephen Collins Collection, DLC. 3 Congress appropriated $500,000 for the Eastern Navy Board on February 19. See Whip ple to Langdon, February 20, 1779. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 16th Feby 1779 I believe my last to you was the 3d inst since which I have receiv’d none of Your favors, it was on my mind that I wrote to you per last post, but on looking over my minutes I do not find it noted, therefore conclude I did not. 1 The last accots from Europe are in Novr. By which we learn that Britain is intirely disapointed in her expectation of assistance from Russia. The King of Naples has opened his ports to us, & we have every reason to expect the most favorable proposals from many European powers, per haps in the course of a few weeks, I may give you intelligence that will afford the highest satisfaction, but you must not be too sanguine in expec tation of a speedy Peace, ’tho I have no doubt overtures of that sort will e’er long be made by Britain, but I am inclined to think that such terms will [be] anexed to them as cannot be accepted consistant with good faith. Let me know how the Resolutions of Congress respecting Money mat ters operate—inform me what were the prises of Masts by the former Contracts and what they may be procured for now supposing the pay to be made in something permanent. The news papers I send from time to time will afford you some amuse ment—the impression Mr. D s first publication made on the minds of people I suppose is by this time taken off. I am inclined to think, when matters are fully investigated, his character will appear in a much worse light than people at present have an idea of, and the Characters of those who he has endeavourd to blacken, will appear with great lustre. Adieu, Yours &c. W W RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers). 1 William’s conclusion was undoubtedly correct; no letter from him to Joseph dated be tween February 3 and 16 has been found.
