86 February 17, 1779 Committee of Congress to Jeremiah Wadsworth Sir, Philadelphia 17th Feby 1779. In answer to yours of the Instant we have to Observe that we think it by no means adviseable to purchase more Rum at present than immediate Consumption demands. That Article is now falling fast for which two good reasons are to be Assigned—first, That the Money daily growing better from many Reasons besides the resolutions of Congress, Gold which is in some Sort the Standard hath fallen at least 20 per Cent— Secondly, That Considerable Quantitites of this Article have.arrived & more expected in Consequence of which the Engrossers are in haste to dispose of what they have And thence much is at market which before was hoarded. It will be (we concieve) advantageous to inculcate an Idea that the Continent are Supplyd with as much as they will want untill the arrival of the Cargo shiped by their Agents. We are Your humble Servants, Gouv. Morris William Whipple Francis Lightfoot Lee Tr (CtHWa: James Wadsworth Collection). In a clerical hand. James Duane to Mary Duane Philad. 17h. Febry 1779 My enclosed Letter 1 for you has lain by me some days for want of Conveyance: yesterday, my dearest Polly, I was made happy by the Re ceipt of your agreeable Favour of the 31st of last month. The Knowledge of the Health of yourself, our dear Children & Friends is the greatest private Happiness I can expect in our Seperation. To encourage you to write me frequently I shall, unless from unavoidable necessity, omit no opportunity altho’ it may be only to reassure you of my Health. I just saw Mr Swift who tells me that Brother Robert & his amiable Lady are both well. His Constitution seems to be mending which gives me real Satisfaction as it opens the prospect of our spending many happy days together & of perpetuating & enjoying that Social Friendship which has so happily subsisted between Us since our first Acquaintance. The Weather here is uncommonly Warm for the Season. It looks like Spring: the Buds of the Trees begin to swell and the grass to put on Verdure. Probably it will be checked by a Change, as I think the winter can hardly be over already. I enclose you the News papers of this week for your and our hond Father’s J[oi]nt Amusement—With Duty, Blessings & Compliments to
