February 18, 1779 87 Parents, Children & Friends respectively, I am ever, My dearest Polly, Your Affectionate & faithful Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 The most recent extant letter from Duane to his wife is dated January 23, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday Feby 17th 1779. Comercial Committee. Congress. Memorial Read from all the Officers now Prisoners on Long Island Praying to be Exchanged refferd to a Com mittee of 3, vizt. Duane, Atley & Dyer. Widdow Kennedys Report, and Treasurys Board opinion thereon Postponed. Sundry foreign Letters from Arther Lee & other Commissioners & from John Ross were Read. 1 G. Morris moved with many Reasons well drawn up that the above Letters, and the late Conferrence with the Minister be Referrd to a special Committee, agree’d to 5 vizt. Morris, Burk, Weather spoon, S Adams and Smith. 2 Secret. 6 PM. Committee on foreign Affairs, only 3. MS (DLC). 1 Only letters from Arthur Lee are identified in the journals. Those from the “other Commissioners & from John Ross” are probably the documents Secretary Thomson de scribed as “sundry papers enclosed.” JCC, 13:194. 2 For the consequences of the work of this committee, which on February 23 submitted a report stating “What to insist on as the ultimatum of these states” should negotiations for peace be opened with Great Britain, see Gouverneur Morris’ Proposed Resolves, March 22? 1779, note. Thomas Adams to Giovanni Fabbroni Good Sir 1 Philadelphia Feby 18th 1779 Your obliging Favor by Colo Decrenis 2 (long after its Date) came safe to Hand. The keen pursuit of that Gentleman after Glory, may be ranked among my Misfortunes as it deprived me of the Pleasure of entertaining him in my own Country and afforded me less of his Company here, than I could have wished. He returns with the most honorable Testimonies of his Valor & good Conduct, as well from the commander in Chief, our beloved Washington as other Officers of approved Merit and Distinction, under whom he immediately acted. Congress have conferred on him a Brevet Commission of Lt. Colo., the highest in their Power to give com porting with the present Arrangement of our Army. Our Friends Mr. Mazzei & Belini 3 are very well, the former I hope you may see some Time next Summer in Italy, in honorable Employ, but this is said to yourself as his Friend & not to be mentioned to others. Belini is
