90 February 18, 1779 William Floyd to John McKesson Sir, Philadelphia, Feb. 18th. 1779 I Reed, your Letter by the Governors Express, and am very much Obliged to you for the many usefull Informations it Contains, and par ticular that a tax Bill has passed the Assembly, upon a plan which if the Assessors Does their Duty faithfully And honestly must Bring in a very handsome Sum of Money, I am pleased with your Representation of it, And hope it will pass the Senate and Answer the Valuable purposes In tended. I am Sorry to hear that the troops in and About the highlands are so Short of provisions, and am much Surprised when you Say that not more than ten Days provisions are purchased. What can be the Cause of this? Is the Commissaries deficient in their Duty or is there a Real Scarcity; I should be glad to be Informed to which of these Causes it may be attrib uted or to what other. The Observations which you have made in your letter on money mat ters I think is well worth the notice of our Treasury Bench, and therefore I Shall Lay that part of it before them, as in my opinion there are some hints which will be usefull to them. As to those Cursed, Deputies Comsys, Qrs, & forage Masters, I dont very well know what can be Done with them; I know they are an Infernal Crew, very few Excepted, Saping the very foundation of this Continent— proper Information given to the heads of those Departments Of the Male- Conduct of those Deputies is the only Method that at present strikes me as proper to Regulate those fellows, unless the Governor should Exercise the Authority Given him by Congress to Remove from office or suspend such of them as do not behave well therein. As General Washington has the Direction of the Army and All Expedi tions are Left with him he will Do what he thinks proper therein, But I have no Expectation of Any Northern Expedition, Except to the westward of Albany and I do not of any there. You’l Be kind Enough to Continue your Correspondence; I should be Glad to hear what Laws pass this Session—from Sir, your very humble Servt. Wm. Floyd RC (NHi: McKesson Papers). William Paca to Joseph Reed Sir 18 Feb. 1779.* In answer to your Requisition I can only say I know of no Resolution of Congress which discontinues General Arnold’s Command in this City. 2 I have the Honor to be, yr. Most obd. hble Sevt. W. Paca
