February 18, 1779 91 FC (PCC, item 19). In the hand of William Paca. 1 Facsimiles of the RC of this letter [“in the possession of J. Mickley Esq. Philad.”], are dated “19th Feb. 1779.” Emmet Collection, NN, and Myers Collection, NN. 2 Paca was responding to the following query contained in Reed’s letter of February 18 to him: “I should be glad to be informed whether Genl. Arnold continues to have the Com mand in this City as that Circumstance may very probably have an Effect upon the Conduct of the Council upon the present Occasion.” PCC, item 19, 1:139. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 18th Feby 1779 Your two favors of the 9th & 20th Jany came to hand Yesterday. 1 I do not wonder at your uneasiness on accot. of the scituation of the Curry; I hope what has been done by Congress will have some tendency to reestab lish the credit of it, however something more must be done, & I trust, very shortly will. I am sorry to find Your mind in so gloomy a scituation. “You fear, nothing but peace will save us from destruction”. These my Friend are sentiments calculated for the meridian of Pensylvania. Peace to be sure is desireable but in my Opinion a secondary Object, war with all its horrors is preferable to an inglorious peace. I hope we shall never consent to such a peace as will involve posterity in greater evils than we have suffered. I have no doubt but there is vertue enough in the Army to undergo the fatigues of one more campaign. They must be sensible that everything that can be is done for their comfort, & I will undertake to say that the strictest justice will be done them when it is in the power of their Country to do them that justice. I have heard nothing of Genl Sullivans calling for the Militia. 2 He has never intimated any such intentions to Congress nor can I have the least conseption what they can be wanted for at this time. The design of the publication you mention I believe was to conceal the Villany of the publishers. 3 I need say nothing to you of the Characters he endeavours to blacken, you know them to be some of the best that this contest has brought on the stage. The Character he chiefly aims at, 4 America is certainly under very great obligations to: to him we are indebted for every peice of good information we have received from Europe since the commencement of the dispute with Britain. I am well satisfied the publisher wod give all his smugled wealth to recall that per formance but it is too late, he has tho’ without intention given the key by which his base designs will be discovered & I hope public justice will be done. There can be no dependence on the intelligence you get from York, that part respecting the 100 Dollar Bills certainly is not true. By the last accots from Europe American affairs have a much better aspect there than here, the perticulars I have not Liberty at present to communicate, but I f [l]atter myself I shall e’er long have it in my power to give you such intelligence as will dispel those gloom that at present seem to pervade Your mind. But I hope every faculty will be exercised to
