February 19, 1779 93 John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia 19 Feb. 1779 Your very friendly Letters of the 10th Ulto. and 2d & 9th Inst, by Mr. Barclay, gave me Pleasure. 1 Accept my Thanks for these Instances of attention, and be so obliging as now & then to tell me how you do, and what political operations distress or promote the public Weal. The Bill respecting the Council of Revision is a most insidious Measure. I always wished to see their Proceedings published, & think this Circum stance will afford full Justification to that Step. The real Farmers Plan of Finance is so abominably wicked as well as unpolitic, that it ought to be exposed, and the Eyes of the Public turned to the Author. 2 We have no late accounts from Georgia. There is little Reason however to doubt of the Enemy’s being in full possession of it. Large Reinforce ments are ordered & probably gone to Gen. Lincoln. What his Force will on their arrival amount to is uncertain; nor can we be certain that they will be equal to the Recovery of that State. Besides you know militia cannot be kept long in the field. We are under no great apprehensions for South Carolina, tho several Circumstances render it vulnerable. The Enemy possess St. Lucia. What further Events have happened in the W. Indies is a Subject on which we have no Information. Mr. Duane promises to prepare a joint Letter for the Delegates to you, & I imagine it will be ready in the Morning. Lest it should not, it may be proper to inform you that all the Departments are placed under the im mediate Direction of Gen. Washington, & therefore that Provision for the Security of the Frontiers falls within the Line of his Duty & Authority. Pennsylvania is under similar Circumstances with you, & will equally demand & be referred to his Care and Protection. His Respect for New York, & the personal Regard he assures me, he entertains for the Gover nor, will I am persuaded unite with other more general Considerations in drawing his Attention to your Exigences and affording the State all the Security in his Power to give. The Scarcity of Bread in the East & South is become a serious Subject, and I hope Care will be taken to prevent so great a Calamity in New York. Give while you have to spare, but Regard to self Preservation ought to set Bounds even to Acts of Benevolence. One of our Frigates has sent a fine armed Vessel of 16 Guns into Boston. The Coast from Delaware to Chesspeake is extremely infested by Priva teers from the City of New York. The Merchants here are preparing to protect their Trade by fitting out armed Vessels for the Purpose. This State is immersed in politics & perplexity, the opposition to the Constitution is respectable & formidable. The Presidents want of Temper & Prudence has injured him. The public Papers will give you more Infor mation on this Subject. Arnold is hard run by them.
