96 February 19, 1779 have occasion for any minutes of Congress that are not directed to be kept secret, on the least hint to me, they will be immediately furnished. I am, Sr., Your obedient humble Servt, Chas Thomson RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 In its campaign against Benedict Arnold, the Pennsylvania Council, believing itself par ticularly aggrieved, was seeking information on how Congress had treated previous cases when states had complained of the conduct of Continental officers. For Reed’s February 19 letter to President Jay requesting copies of Congress’ proceedings against James Nicholson “on complaint of Governor Johnson of Maryland,” against Edward Carrington on com plaint ofVirginia, and against William Maxwell on complaint of New Jersey, see PCC, item 69, 1:613-14; and JCC, 13:207-8. For the cases of Nicholson, Carrington, and Maxwell respectively, see these Letters, 6:683n, 8:84n.4; and^/CC, 12:1255, 13:23-24, 129. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir Philad. 20th Feby 1779 Accept my Thanks for your Excellency’s favour of the 2d Instant. 1 I wish I had time to make my Correspondence either interesting or amus ing; but it has fallen to my Lot to be involved in a greater Share of Business than I can discharge with any Degree of Correctness or punctu ality. It was but within a few days that we learnd that the Maps and papers concerning the Claims of the Revolters from our State were in Mr. G Morris’s hand. I came from Fishkill with Information and a strong Per suasion that they remaind in the Secretary’s office. On all Accounts it is a favorable Juncture to settle the dispute with these male-contents, and I flatter myself that Congress will do what is right & for the general Inter est: They certainly owe it to us as an Act of Justice setting Policy out of the Question: for some of their own Acts and much more the Conduct of two of their Generals have served to enflame the Ambition of the Revolt ers and flatter them that the Seperation was not disagreeable to the high est Power. The Acts of Individuals have gone still further: I trust however that all these Projects will be baffled by Right and Truth. Our Finances are in a delicate & difficult situation. I hope however that we shall be able to restore the publick Credit in spite of the malice of our Enemies and the Avarice of our Citizens. I am pleasd to find a free Spirit of Enquiry in your news papers. We shall be happy in receiving Informa tion: & I woud be far from discouraging those whose literary labours are employd in so interesting a Subject. And yet it seems strange that the real farmer 2 has never stopped to ask himself whether any Man woud touch Continental money after it had been taxed 25 per Cent; or even a fifth of that Sum!, By the Authority of Congress: To say nothing of the arbitrary assumption of power which must be implied in such an Act. Congress have a Right to call on the States for Contribution: but the mode of Taxation rests solely with their seperate Legislatures. I do not despair but
