98 February 20, 1779 ate Care, and Congress have the most unlimited Confidence in his Wis dom & Judgement as well As his Zeal and Integrity. Congress I believe wish to give all his Operations what none have had hitherto, the advan tage of Secrecy: for which Reason they have not been the subject of debate, & I fancy you are one of a very few with whom they are entrusted. I do not say this on account of Caution: to you it is unnecessary. I have Reason to think the General while attending Congress, or rather a Select Committee of five, expressed to many Members his Reluctance at your quitting the Army, I wished it coud be prevented. 2 No motion has how ever been made, & when it is I am apt to think it will depend on your Friends to turn the Scale. You will have a strong advocate in R. H. L. who took his seat this day. 3 You breath the Spirit of our Friend Mrs Schuy ler—you pant for Retirement and private Life. She takes the advantage of me but tell her it will be owing to my own free Act if she is gratified: & that I am so far from having consented to gratify her: that it is more than probable I shall strive to disappoint her. I have no News to communicate. Make my respectful Compliments to the aforsaid Lady and the whole Circle of our Friends—and believe me to be—with very great Esteem, Dear Sir, Your affectionate & most Obedient Servant. Jas. Duane RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 That is, George Washington. 2 For discussion of Schuyler’s resignation, see Duane to Schuyler, January 3; and John Jay to Schuyler, January 15, 1779, note 1. 3 Duane’s suggestion that Schuyler would now have “a strong advocate” in Richard Henry Lee, a zealous supporter of Schuyler’s longtime rival Horatio Gates, is doubtless intended facetiously. The inference may be that Lee would simply prefer to keep Schuyler in the army to prevent his return to Congress. John Fell’s Diary Saturday Feby 20th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Letter from John Hart, relating to his Loss by Cloth taken from his fulling Mill, Committee of 3, Vizt. Dyer, Hill & Weatherspoon. Letter from Capt. Hector McNeal to be considered on Tuesday. Memorial of Lucy De Pasey. 1 Board of Warr do from Capt Celleron, to have a Brevet for the Rank of Major. No. Motion to allow him 1000 Ds. agreed Ay. Petition from Timothy Pening 2 to send a Vessell to Jamaica referrd to a Committee vizt. Adams, Dyer, & Collins. Report read about the Convention Troops in Virginia. 2 Auditors appointed for the Army, vizt. Varley and Powell. 3 Motion for Pay Master and Trea surer for the Marine Board, deferrd. Motion for 100,000 Ds for the Com mercial Committee. Motion for the Officers to be furnished by the Quar ter Master, with Portmantuas, and Valances at the Publick Expence.
