February 20, 1779 99 MS (DLC). 1 The February 18 memorial of Louis de Passem, “major of the regiment of Hesse Hanau” on parole from the Convention Army, who was seeking permission to return to Germany to recover from his injuries, is in PCC, item 41, 8:70-72. JCC, 13:214. 2 That is, Timothy Penny. JCC, 13:217. 3 Felix Warley and Alexander Fowler were elected auditors of the army this day. JCC, 13:217. William Floyd to George Clinton S’ r, Philadelphia Feb. 20th 1779. The money which I Rec’d as of our Treasurer for the purpose of Bear ing my Expences here, happened to be mostly of the two Emitions which were put out of Circulation about the time I arrived here. Some of it I have Changed, the Rest I cannot, without a Loss of ten per Cent, and God knows I am not in Circumstances to put it on Interest; therefore, I Enclose it to your Excellency, and Beg you would Desire Mr. Benson to give it to the Treasurer that he may make a memorandum on the back of my Receipt; there is 568 Doll’s. I Shall be under a Necessity (Contrary to my Inclination), to get from the Continental Treasury Some money on the Credit of our State to Bear my Expences. Our necessary Expence here is far beyond any thing I had an Idea of. As I Doubt not, you will be well Informed of Every thing that is passing at this place by my Brother Delegates, I Shall at this time, only Enclose a paper of this day’s date and Conclude with Saying that I am with the Greatest Respect S’r your most obed’t and humble Serv’t Wm. Floyd. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:584. Francis Lewis to George Clinton Dear Sir, Phila. 20th Febry. 1779. I have been honoured with your letter of the 1st Instant. You will undoubtedly ere this reaches you hear the current bruit of the present time, i. e. that Congress are possessed of great news received from Europe but for reasons of State, think it improper at this time to be devulged; this has raised the curiosity of the public to know what the mighty Secret is. As a member of Congress I am enjoined to Secrecy, but think myself at liberty to communicate to your Excellency (in confidence) that Mons’r Gerrard has given Congress such intelligence as will put our affairs upon a more respectable footing than ever, but then it will be necessary that we exert ourselves in our military appearances, but above all in our unanimity, for the only hope Britain has now left, is to divide us.
