106 February 23, 1779 John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir Philadela. Feby. the 23d. 1779 I am much obliged by your favour of the 20th and its inclosures. I shall read it with much pleasure, as I have a great affection for the Virtue, person and principles of the author. No late advises from Georgia. Letters just received by the Minister inform us that the English are still in possession of St. Lucia. I wish they may be mad enough to hold it some time longer. They will then know and experience, what has always been said of St Lucia, that it is the grave of Europeans. They are very sickly and die from ten to fifteen every Day. The British Fleet is superior to the French, but will not I hope remain as long, as ten sail are daily expected from france. The Deane has taken two prizes one of 16 Guns and 60 Men which is safe arrived at Boston, the other being of little value was burnt at sea. The Marine Committee have ordered four other ships for the protection of the Southern trade. Some of them I hope will soon be there. The Revenge Cutter is just arrived from Martinique. This ship is a curiosity. She has taken 66 prizes and never met with her equal in swift sailing. The Intelligence which Congress has received shall be communicated to you, as soon as I am at Liberty. As you have Correspondents in France, who may favour you with new publications, if you have any others, I should be obliged to you for the perusal. I am Sir with Sincerity and affection, Yrs. J. Henry RC (MdAA: Red Books). John Jay to Charles Lee Sir, Philadelphia 23d Feby. 1779 Under the same Cover with this you will find a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 22nd Inst. The Letters alluded to in it are also herewith enclosed. The propriety of the transaction which is the Subject of them may be deemed questionable, Congress therefore have no doubt but that You will explain it. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. JJ. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Unsealed letters for General Lee from friends in New York concerning the negotiation of bills of exchange for hard money had been forwarded to Congress by General Washington. Congress immediately resolved to forward the letters to Lee, but also decided to require an explanation. For Lee’s explanation of this affair, and Congress’ response to his explanation, see JCC, 13:218, 253-55, 259-60; PCC, item 158, 1:133-38, 159-62; and Jay, Papers (Mor ris), pp. 564-66. When Lee’s initial request was received, opponents attempted to embarrass
