February 27, 1779 111 John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 26th Feby. 1779. Your Excellency will receive enclosed with this Letter Copies of two Acts of Congress, one of the 18th Inst, establishing Regulations for the Department of Inspector General 1 —The other of the 25th respecting the Defence of the Western Frontiers, with the Applications of Connecticut, New York, and Pennsylvania to Congress on that Subject. 2 I have the Honor to be Sir, with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excelly’s most Obedt. & Hble Servt. J. Jay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 13:196-200. Jay also enclosed Congress’ “Plan for the Department of Inspector General” in a brief letter of transmittal to Baron Steuben this day. PCC, item 14, fol. 54-55. 2 JCC, 13:251-52. In his March 3 response to Jay acknowledging receipt of these “Appli cations,” Washington reported that “A plan of offensive operations for the effectual relief of the Western frontier has been some time since determined upon and preparations are mak ing in consequence.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:180. For a discussion of the evolution of Washington’s plans for offensive operations on the New York-Pennsylvania frontier, see Freeman, Washington, 5:97-98. See also Daniel Roberdeau to John Bayard, February 16; and New York Delegates to George Clinton, February 19, 1779. Samuel Adams to Mercy Scollay My dear Friend Philada. Feby 27, 1779 I felt my self so much interrested in the Subject of your Letter of the 28th of January, that I should have immediately answerd it, if it had been in my Power. When I receivd it, General Arnold was absent from the City on a Journey; and when he returnd, I was confind to my Chamber by bodily Indisposition, which has been my Lot several Times this Winter. I have since waited on him. He informd me that he had written to you. I thankd him in your Name for the Kindness he had shown to the Children of our deceasd Friend. 1 I assured him they were in good Hands and that he might fully confide in your Care of them. He mentiond them with so much Tenderness, that I am led to think they will reap still further Benefit from his Generosity. For the “benevolent Exertions” of this Gentleman, you are “beholden” to Him, who provides for the fatherless Children. He, by a secret Influence, directs the charitable Hand to particular Objects. It does not, however, lessen the Debt of Gratitude to those, whose Hearts are touched with the Necessities of the meritorious, and whose Purses are open for their Reliefe. May Heaven graciously reward the Benefactors of these orphans! While Providence affords you the Opportunity, you will instill into their young Minds the Principles of Piety and Virtue, and thereby lay a Foundation for their being hereafter useful and happy.
