116 February 27, 1779 education, and among those who know the real value of such perfor mances, the reputation of a virtuous citizen will not suffer more from the scurrility of a news-paper, than from the nervous diction of an oyster wench. The licentiousness exhibited on these occasions, demonstrates the existence of liberty, which is a pleasing consideration to those who have a value for it. And altho’ such productions may offend individuals, yet they are not without use to society, in like manner as the blasts of winter tho’ keen are wholesome. We may further deduce from it the falacy or rather falsity of what was once a favorite position among you, that people did not dare to utter their sentiments, neither is it unworthy of your attention that the various attacks upon Congress have not drawn the least notice from that body. From hence it is to be concluded that they have a well founded confidence in themselves, for did the shaft stick, it would make the body sore. And nothing is truer than this, that little minds are more resentful than great ones, and truth more resented than falsehood. From some acquaintance and good information I will venture to add, that the present Congress considered in the double view of abilities and integrity is at least as respectable as any which hath yet been assembled. Let it not be con cluded from this, that I conceive the individuals of that body to be of a superior nature. They like other men are subject to passions, prejudices, weaknesses and the influence of the elements, and since the Deity chose one Judas among twelve disciples, it cannot be wondered at if among a much greater number some few should be charged with peculiar pravity. But this by no means militates against the general observation. To say there are divisions in Congress is only saying in other words that it is a popular Assembly. Different views of the same subject naturally lead men to differ in sentiments. Personal connections excite personal emotions, and the conflict of such emotions sometimes produces personal altercation. The heats inevitable on such occasions seldom evaporate within the walls of one house, but stimulate to bitter observations easily credited, because they flatter a self-importance which is uneasy at any kind of superiority. Perhaps you will ask how it happens that such things did not exist formerly? They did; but the public dangers and distresses taught men to keep more secret those things which they readily divulge in an hour of greater security. The appearance of such divisions therefore in personal matters are striking marks of national prosperity, and you will find, that however the members of Congress may disagree about who shall be in and who shall be out, they will be firmly united in refusing to accept the independance Great-Britain is about to offer, and insist on a clear, explicit and pointed acknowledgment of it in the most extensive sense previous to any treaty whatsoever. For what regards the dispute between the Executive Council of this State and Congress it is, as far as your views may be served by it, the most trifling of all trifling things. Stimulated by a laudable zeal to discover public abuses, their suspicions were turned on one to whose gallantry America is much indebted. Greatness and weakness are sometimes nearly
