February 27, 1779 117 allied. That spirit which carried him in triumph over the fields of honor, induced a want of respect for Magistrates to whom he did not deem himself accountable. Charity bids us believe that conscious innocence in spired an elevation which he would not have felt under the pressure of guilt. Perhaps also it was regard to the privileges of his brother soldiers which rejected submission to other than a military tribunal, when his conduct as an officer was arraigned. These and many other reasons doubt less suggested themselves to the Council, and had they been at liberty to obey those dispassionate sentiments which embellish their high office, his refusal might perhaps have been disregarded. But on the one hand attach ment to the interests of America, and on the other divisions in their state and doubts about their authority, which naturally rendered them more jealous of it than those to whom dignity and power are familiarized, these motives would not permit a moment delay in pursuing the interests and vindicating the majesty of the people. Perhaps there may have been some little personalities concerned, tho’ the reverence which is due to the Su preme Executive of an independent State, opposes the idea. But be this as it may, Congress seems to have viewed the matter somewhat differently from the State. Conscious of possessing the love and respect of their coun trymen in arms as well as of others, they were not open to angry impres sions, which indeed are of little use either in public or private life. Affec tion also for an army which hath served them so faithfully, so generously, might raise some prejudice in favor of it’s members; as an indulgent par ent smiles at the petulant vivacity of a favorite child. They did not there fore catch the resentments of the Council, and tho’ determined to support the authority of a State, they were not eager to blemish the reputation of a worthy soldier. The Council probably influenced by good reasons which they will undoubtedly declare at a proper time, came to certain resolu tions which they have published and transmitted to the several States. But this little feverish ebullition, and the ridicule which many have attemted to cast upon it, can do no good to you. The Assembly of Pennsylvania which by their constitution is of real importance, acts in perfect harmony with the Congress. And depend upon it, whatever your leaders may flatter you with, the Whigs of Pennsylvania will not engage in any dispute with the representative body of America to the prejudice either of the acknowl edged rights of that body, or of the privileges of those brave citizens who have drawn their swords in the cause of Freedom. And even if any such dispute should exist, can you suppose, that in case of necessity, the President of that State would hesitate a moment to head his militia? That he would not instantly take the field with his wonted alacrity? That he would not fight under the banners of America with his former zeal? Those who know him know better. It would be equally ab surd for you to suppose that the Council are disposed to promote public divisions, in order to favor the negotiations of the enemy. Do not dwell on the mysteriousness in Doctor Berkenhout’s affair. It is nothing new that an
