118 February 27, 1779 artful man should impose upon the unsuspicious. Honesty and knowledge are very different things, and of the two the former is the most amiable. As little ground have you for hope in the depreciation of the Continen tal money. You know that this is in a great degree to be attributed to the arts of interested men whose efforts to acquire it shew their conviction of it’s value. I know it hath been a fashionable doctrine, that after the emis sions should amount to a certain sum, the bubble, as the phrase was, would burst. But the absurdity of this to men acquainted with human nature was evident. The reasons are needless, because we may appeal to experience to shew whether there is the least danger of this event. When two emissions were called in, and every method, consistent with justice and good faith, taken to stop their circulation; those who had principally contributed to depreciate the money were the very persons who continued to receive the vicious emissions. For as soon as it became a question, whether they should lose not the value, but merely the use of so much money, they made every effort to uphold the credit of it. A few days ago, when a report prevailed of the arrivals of some favorable intelligence from Europe, such of you as are in this city cannot but remember the rapid fall of every article, specie not excepted. Hence the deduction is clear that the money issued by Congress is intrinsically worth what they contend, but is depreciated by the quantity in some degree, and more by the arts of engrossers. Take the familiar proposition, that a country will easily bear taxation to the amount of some given part of the circulating medium, suppose a tenth, tho’ in fact one fifth may be raised among a free people, and you will see that, let the paper medium be increased to any degree, it may be sunk in a short period. Not pretending to great knowledge of national secrets, and little desir ous of communicating whatever of this kind it hath fallen to my lot to know, I shall reason with you on these things as I have reasoned for myself, and I trust the event will verify my conclusions. And first I con sider it to be manifestly the interest of every Court in Europe to foster our independence because it is in effect the dividing a great empire, whose power was formidable, and whose insolence was insupportable. Beginning with Russia; iron, potash and such other commodities as that country produces in common with this, will now have equal advantages at the London market, because no bounties will in future be granted by Parliament to the produce of these States. Sailcloth and the other articles produced there and consumed here will come hither directly from thence, and in direct return they will take our rice and tobacco, the commercial advantages of which are evident, not to mention the increase of naval force they may expect from it. Add to these solid reasons of national interest the personal character of the Empress. This is strongly marked by benevolence and the love of that fame which results from contributing to the happiness of mankind, a disposition evidenced by giving to her sub jects all the liberty they are at present capable of. These considerations will naturally lead you to the answer filled with disdain which she gave to a proposal of the British Ambassador requesting her troops to subdue us.
