February 27, 1779 119 “My glory shall never be tarnished by the infamy of oppressing those who only contend for freedom and justice.” They will also account for her refusal to accede to subsequent propositions from our enemies the most disgraceful to them as well as apparently advantageous to her. The spirit of the State reasons abovementioned applies generally all the Northern Courts, and it must be observed that the lesser will be very cautious how they contravene the veiws of the greater. As to Denmark her imbecility is the best possible reason why she should not side with the weaker party, especially when she holds the little of her West-India pos sessions as a tenant at will to the maritime powers. Sweden, the faithful ally of France, if she acts at all, will certainly take part in our favour, and with twenty ships of the line ready at a moment’s warning, is in capacity to afford us no inconsiderable aid. Prussia and Austria, equally desirous of becoming maritime powers, equally desirous to obtain for that purpose a share of the American com merce, and actually at war with each other, will neither of them be willing to send force against America. Nor will the smaller German Powers dare to weaken their dominions, by the loss of a single soldier, whilst the Em peror and King of Prussia are armed in motion, and in capacity to swal low them up. Of the United Netherlands and Italy nothing need be said, unless that at least a strict neutrality may be depended on from them; the reasons of which are too obvious. France is already at war with Great-Britain for American Indepen dence; and those who know the connection between the Courts of Ver sailles and Madrid, their enmity to that of St. James’s, and their national interests, cannot but perceive that Spain will soon be joined in this contest, unless it be terminated agreeably to our wishes. Hence then it is evident, either that we shall immediately conclude a safe and honorable peace, or that Great-Britain must carry on the war alone, and unsupported against France, Spain and America, in which case the two former will give every aid in their power, to our trade and fi nances, so that on the whole no well founded doubt can exist, that the Continental currency will rise greatly in its value, and that the indepen dence and safety of America will be established on the firmest foundation. Convinced as you must be of these things, what ought your conduct to be? You cannot pretend to plead conscience on this occasion, because the success of our measures being apparent, it is on your own principles the will of God, to which you are conscientiously bound to conform. If you oppose your countrymen you may indeed incourage the enemy, and thereby lengthen out the contest, in which case you yourselves shall deter mine, whether you will not in some degree be answerable for the conse quences. You have seen enough of war to wish a termination of it. You have sense enough to perceive that you can live happily under those governments which you wished in vain to prevent. You ought to fear that if the enemy perform their threats of wasting our country, your persons
