120 February 27, 1779 may become obnoxious to the vengeance of your fellow-citizens, and your estates be applied to compensate the ravages committed on theirs. Take then the counsel which I again declare to you is dictated by humanity. I wish sincerely the happiness of all mankind. I wish sincerely the prosperity and glory of the United States. And as sincerely I wish for peace. May Heaven grant it to us, to you and to all. an American MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, February 27, 1779. 1 Almost certainly Gouverneur Morris, who wrote several letters for Pennsylvania newspa pers in 1778 and 1779 over the pseudonym “An American.” He apparently wrote this article to quiet public alarm over divisions within Congress and between Congress and certain states, as well as in response to information contained in William Lee’s recently received September 12, 1778, letter to Congress “that orders have already been sent to [Great Brit ain’s] commissioners in America to acknowledge our independance if nothing else will an swer, in order to commence a treaty and make peace.” In an apparent allusion to the former motive, Morris later explained to Joseph Reed that “My object was to prevent our Friends from being alarmed and our Enemies encouraged by Appearances of Disunion.” See JCC, 13:219; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:715; and Gouverneur Morris to Joseph Reed, April 9, 1779. Morris evidently feared that reports of impending peace negotiations and recognition of American independence would lessen support for the war and fuel sentiment for a separate peace with Great Britain—a constant concern of the French minister Conrad Alexandre Gerard, who considered himself a close collaborator of Gouverneur Morris. And since Con gress was simultaneously in the midst of reviewing the conduct of its overseas commissioners and establishing its peace ultimata, the subject was both timely and exceedingly delicate. Gerard manifested his interest in the essay by sending a copy of it to Paris, with several passages underlined, because, as he explained in a March 1 letter to the comte de Vergennes, he believed they were important “pour connoitre L’etat des affaires en Amerique.” Meng, Gerard Despatches, p. 548. Having ventured into the propaganda war then raging in the Philadelphia newspapers, exhorting Americans to stand firm against Britain’s assault on their independence, Morris quickly found himself under attack, for two letters denouncing him, published over the signatures “T.G.” and “Common Sense,” were printed on March 2 in the next issue of the Packet. For additional information on the response of “T.G.,” who attacked not only Morris but also his “late colleague, William Duer,” see William Duer’s Statement, March 9, 1779, printed below. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry My Dear Sir: Phila., Feb’y 28, 1779. I arrived here on the 19th, thro the worst roads that I ever travelled over. I find business of faction here pretty much at an end by the thorough exposure of its author, Mr. Silas Deane, who, if I am rightly informed, regrets extremely his publication of December the 5th. But be this as it may, he has certainly gained nothing by it here in the public opinion. I inform you with pleasure Sir, that the King of France has formally agreed to rescind the 11th and 12th articles of the treaty of Commerce, 1 so that now, the only unequal parts being removed, it rests upon the liberal ground of fair equality in every part. We are certainly indebted to Dr.
