February 28, 1779 121 Lee’s attention for this beneficial alteration, for which the honest voice of posterity will indubitably thank him when the poison of wicked faction shall cease to operate. The King of the two Sicilys has opened his ports to the vessels of the United States, 2 which is a good omen of Spanish attach ment to our cause. Indeed we have abundant reason to believe that Great Britain will not get assistance from any power in Europe to carry on the war against us, and already our good Ally has made great havoc among the Privateers and with the trade of our enemies. We hear that 7000 British Seamen are now prisoners in the jails of old France. Notwithstand ing these favorable appearances it certainly behooves us to get a strong army in the field, as the enemy have yet here a strength sufficient to do much mischief if they are not properly opposed. From the best accounts that I can collect, it appears that they have not less than 11,000 men at New York and Rhode Island. Yesterday accounts from Jersey told us the enemy had landed at Elizabeth Town, and had burned Gov. Livingston’s house, and were advancing into the country. Our army was preparing to resist them, and if they do not quickly return I hope we shall give a good account of them. The enemy have published some curious letters of Mr. Braxton’s which they have intercepted. I am informed they will be repub lished here, and when they are I will send you the paper. 3 I am with much esteem, dear Sir, affectionately yours, Richard Henry Lee. P. S.—The enemies attempt upon Gen. Maxwell in the Jersies has turned out to our honour and their disgrace. Instead of surprising Gen. Maxwell, they themselves were surprised by his being prepared. The enemy were forced to retire with loss and disgrace, and without burning Livingston’s house. March 2. R. H. Lee. MS not found; reprinted from Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:227-28. 1 See Meriwether Smith to John Page, February 21, 1779, note 1. 2 In his October 19, 1778, letter to the committee for foreign affairs, Arthur Lee had reported that “The King of Naples and Sicily has declared to us in form, by his ambassador here, that his ports are open to all Vessels belonging to the United States.” See PCC, item 83, 1:345-48; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:800-801. 3 For further information about these “curious letters” and the controversy that ensued, see Meriwether Smith to the Public, March 9, 1779. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen February 28th. 1779 We send you by the bearer hereof Captain Ephm. Bill Five hundred Thousand Dollars agreeable to his receipt enclosed. This sum we expect will enable you to discharge the present demands on your Department and will answer to give despatch in fitting for Sea all the Vessels that are
