124 February-March ? 1779 dissatisfaction in the Army but on the contrary that they are well sup plied, indeed the Officers complain that their pay will not support them, but there are but very few resignations on that accot.—provisions are very scarce & very dear but the Army have a sufficiency. I hope the genl. Court in their next session will choose Delegates for it will be of great importance that the state shod be represented in Congress the insuing summer, my Colleague is determined to go home early in Api and it will be impossible for me to tarry the summer. I am Your affect. Friend &c, Wm. Whipple [P.S.] Observations on the American Revolution by a Committee of Con gress 2 is just come from the Press it being too bulkey to go through the Post office. I shall send you one by the first oppory. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Bartlett’s January 28 letter to Whipple is in Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 239-41. 2 See Whipple to Bartlett, February 7, 1779, note 4. Richard Henry Lee’s Draft Report on Silas Deane [February-March? 1779] The Committee appointed to consider &c beg leave to make the follow ing report. It appears to your Committee that Mr. Deane did engage in private Commerce at the time that he was employed in the public business and having the direction of public monies. That altho it does not appear in proof that public funds were applied to private purposes as yet a variety of circumstances support the conjecture. That Mr. Deanes accounts for the expenditure of 37 Livres 2 have not yet been settled. That in the opinion of your Committee it is proper that Mr. Deane should be called upon to make such settlement before the Continental Commissioners of accounts. That as Mr. Deane proposes to embark for a foreign Country, it is proper that he should, previous to his departure, give bond with sufficient security to repay the public whatever ballance may hereafter appear to be due to the United States. That it appears by letters of the Secret Committee to Mr. Hodge dated 3 that he was directed to purchase, fit out, and send to America, two well Armed Cutters loaded with Stores for the public use, and he was to lay his instructions before Silas Deane Esqr. and follow his advice in the execution. That these Cutters were not sent to America with Stores as directed but being purchased & fitted out in public and private partner ship of which Partners Mr. Deane was one, they were sent to cruise for Prizes on the Coasts of England and Spain contrary to the sence of Con gress and the desires of the Court of France. That these Cruises produced disagreable consequences both in France & Spain.
