126 February-March ? 1779 out, if in their power to do it armed Cruisers from France to annoy the British Trade in Europe, and blank Commissions were sent for this purpose.” See the Secret Committee’s letter to Mr. Hodge 2 and observe how totally and expressly different it is from the State here given by Mr. Deane. See also the express condition on which alone Congress agree that armed Vessels shall be fitted out in France, by their resolve on this subject at Baltimore first of 1777, 3 immediately transmitted to the Commissioners. The business of Cuninghame is expressly opposed to the directions of the Committee, to the resolve of Congress and to the repeated injunctions of the Court of France. But Cuninghames affair was a Job of mixed public & private concern for the benefit chiefly of the latter. See Mr. Hodges letter where he says Mr. Deane was a third part concerned in this Cutter of Cun- ninghames—Thus sacrificing public good & public trust to private views. Observe his praises of Williams and compare it with Rob. Morris’s letter saying Mr. Deane was in partnership with Williams. Also the in closed letter from Williams to Deane proposing leave to draw at pleasure on the Banker at Paris with whom was lodged all the money of the United States in France, and his particular expression “My connections with you being known.” See also in the Commercial Committee, the Vessels as sent by Mr. Williams here with Stores bringing no Charter party, or information by which it might be known what was to be done with the Vessels after they had discharged their Cargoes, and the consequent inconveniences. This does not imply such great ability as Mr. Deane describes—But it seems Mr. Williams was Mr. Deanes partner. MS (ViU: Lee Family Papers). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 As Silas Deane’s “narrative” had been read in Congress and submitted to the Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee for examination before Lee returned to Congress on February 20, it seems likely that Lee obtained access to the document from and prepared these notes for one of his allies on the committee, such as Henry Laurens or William Whipple. For specula tion on Lee’s relationship with members of that committee and the context in which he probably prepared these notes, see the preceding entry, note 1. 2 See these Letters, 4:103-5. 3 Lee is apparently referring to the resolution adopted on December 23, 1776, shortly after Congress assembled in Baltimore, authorizing the commissioners “to arm and fit for war any number of vessels not exceeding six, at the expence of the United States, to war upon British property, and that commissions and warrants be for this purpose sent to the Commissioners, provided the Commissioners be well satisfied this measure will not be disagreeable to the court of France.” JCC, 6:1036. John Fell’s Diary Monday March 1st. [1779] Commercial Committee. Letter from Genl. Washington, inclosing one from Genl. Maxwell at Elizabethtown, that the Enemy had left that Place, after a fruitless Incursion. Memorial from Mr Holker offering a Million of Dolls on Loan—Referrd. to Mr. R. H. Lee, Laurens & Morris. 1
