March 1, 1779 127 Committee of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, desire a Conferrence with a Committee of Congress, relating to the Emitions call’d out of Circulation, Gerry, Carmichael, Duane. 2 Motion for the Committee to whom was Referrd the Letters & Papers, from President Reed, &c be Requir’d to send and Examine on Oath Mr Mitchell D Q M General respecting the Waggons, said to be employd Per Genl Arnold. 3 Congress went in to a Committee of the whole House, Respecting the fixing the Bounderies of the United States. MS (DLC). 1 See JCC, 13:260-62. Jean Holker’s February 27 letter to President Jay and the memorial he enclosed with it “respecting it’s [Congress’] finances & a proposition of a loan which I have in my power to make,” are in PCC, item 96, fols. 223, 233-44. For numerous letters and accounts detailing his financial speculations, including a later explanation of this pro posed loan—“Observes on Mr. Morris’s State of Facts”—see the Jean Holker Papers, DLC. Meriwether Smith, rather than Gouverneur Morris, was the third member appointed this day. Morris and William Carmichael were added to the committee on March 20. JCC, 13:344-45. 2 JCC, 13:262. The committee of the Pennsylvania Assembly that met with William Car michael, James Duane, and Elbridge Gerry, reported to the assembly on March 3 that Congress had pledged to issue $500,000 to loan office commissioner Thomas Smith to facili tate withdrawing “the emissions of continental money ordered to be taken out of circula tion.” Minutes of the Second Sitting of the Third General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylva nia, DLC(ESR), pp. 71-72. 3 See William Paca to Joseph Reed, March 3, 1779. John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 1st March 1779. Altho I have no Important Intelligence to communicate, or Leisure to write long Letters, yet cannot omit this opportunity of sending to you the news Papers, and telling you I am well. A vessel with a valuable Cargo is just arrived at Baltimore. Whether she brings any & what advices from France I am yet uninformed. My next will be more particular. My best Respects to Mrs. Clinton. I am dear Sir Your Friend & Serv’t, John Jay. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:598. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear Sir, March 1st. 1779 Your Favor of Feb. 16 was delivered to me the 27th by Doctr. Craigie. The Picture you draw of your Situation is singularly mortifying to me both as your Friend and as a Bostonian. I hope the Affair of Flour is in some sort of Train for the replenishing of the public Magazines and for the
