132 March 2, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Tuesday March 2d. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Some Letters read, and a Memorial from the Board of Warr, about clothing the Army. Report for Raising a Lone in Europe, and the Propriety of Paying Beaumarchies Debt, debated till 4 o Clock. 6 P.M. Attended the Marine Committee (first time). 1 MS (DLC). 1 Fell, Richard Henry Lee, and James Searle had been added to the Marine Committee on February 24.JCC, 13:247. John Jay to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia 2nd March 1779 Agreeable to your Request I have communicated to Congress your proposals on the Subject of your Office, on which they have not as yet taken any Order. 1 You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 20th Feby. regulating the Supplies of Portmanteaus & Valaises to the Officers of the Army. 2 I am Sir with great Respect, Your most Obedt. & very Hble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In a letter of February 1, Greene had explained that the quartermaster department frequently encountered claims from persons who had suffered damages at the hands of the army, either by “the taking of such Articles on sudden Emergencies as the Army may stand in need of” or by “that kind of Trespass on private property which Armies in all Countries commit.” Thus he recommended that Congress appoint “certain Commissioners of proper Character and Abilities” to determine such claims, and his letter had been referred to the committee for superintending the commissary and quartermaster departments. See JCC, 13:133; and PCC, item 155, 1:83-86. The specific recommendation seems to have been lost in the larger concern over a general overhaul of the quartermaster corps and was never acted upon. 2 JCC, 13:214-15. John Jay to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 2d March 1779 Accept my Thanks for your obliging Favor of the 23 Ulto 1 and be pleased to add to the obligation by a Repetition of them. The arrival of a Reinforcement from Rhode Island at New York seems to indicate either another Embarkation to the Southward, or offensive operations in your Quarter. But of military Matters I have too little Knowledge to hazard Conjectures, especially to Persons familiar with that Science.
