March 2, 1779 139 P.S. I had spoken to the Secretary for a copy of the Resn. on supplies but it hath been forgotten and the post being just about to set out will not admit of our waiting for a copy. However you will receive a copy of it through the President. We have obtained a resolution for taking off fifty thousand dollars from our proportion of the tax and putting it on South Carolina since we wrote the paragraph respecting that subject. 2 The Sec retary is so busy that he cannot give us a copy of it. We will send it by the next post. In the meantime the Assembly may proceed on taxation if they should think proper. We write in Congress. Wm. Ellery RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery, and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 See John Jay to the Massachusetts Council, February 27, 1779. For “the recommenda tion already given,” seen also Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, February 9, 1779, note 1. 2 See JCC, 13:269. William Whipple to Joshua Brackett Mr Dear Sir, Philadelphia 2d. March 1779 I have the Pleasure of Yours of the 2d Feby. You say you have not read all the controversy between Mr. D & C- S—— 1 therefore cannot give your own opinion. You are perfectly right so far, but I hope you will not form an opinion on other Peoples judgment, when better evidence is to be obtained—if you have formed no opinion of Your own, why do You belelve C S has got into a dispute that will be no credit to him? You wish to Know the opinion of Congress respecting Mr. D . It is out of my power to give you a direct answer to that Question at present as the matter has not come to a decision, but this I assure you, that I have never heard a member of that Body pretend to justify him. I do not know on what grounds C S is suspected of being the hierling of a party, I am very confident that is not the case, but in my opinion a Zealous Champion for truth in this instance, its true his Zeal has lead him imprudently to expose some matters which brot Congress to a disagreeable dilemma—but he is by no means chargeable with falsehood in any one instance in the course of his publications respecting D . Prudence at present forbids my giving you my Opinion of the Character last mentioned but I will venture to say he is altogether unworthy to be mentioned with those who he has endeavord to traduce. It gives me pleasure to hear of the arrival of a Cargo of flour &c. I wish you may have many more of the same sort, that article is very scarce & consequently very dear here, I am told the price is 40 dollars and every kind of provision in proportion ‘tho this is owing in some measure to the vicinity of the Army but Principally to the shortness of the last crop. I must refer you to the papers for newes, we have had nothing very material from Europe but daily expect something of importance, the en-
