144 March 3, 1779 26, 1779. Useful narratives of Pennsylvania’s prolonged attempt to bring Arnold to justice are available in John F. Roche, Joseph Reed: A Moderate tn the American Revolution (New York: Columbia University Press, 1957), pp. 167-71; Carl Van Doren, Secret History of the American Revolution (New York: Viking Press, 1941), pp. 188-93; and James T. Flexner, The Traitor and the Spy: Benedict Arnold and John Andre (New York: Harcourt, Brace & Co., 1953), pp. 237-59. The Pennsylvania Council ordered the publication of a compilation of documents on this case in Proceedings of the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania in the Case of Major General Arnold (Philadelphia: Hall & Sellers, 1779), item no. 16448, Evans, Am. Bibliography. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Brother Philadelphia 3d March 1779 Your favor of the 1st Ulto came to hand this day, under cover from Mr. Hazard who it seems is prevented by business from persuing his journey to this City. I wish that Gentn may make some amendments in the Post Office, some alteration is certainly necessary, my letters are often 4 weeks & sometimes longer, on the way from Portsmouth. The Resolves of Con gress respecting the Emissions that are called in, speak a language that need no explanation; 1 as they are receivable in the Treasury till the 1st of June they are certainly safe in the possesser’s hands till that time, but he must be careful not to let that day elapse. Such a plan as you mention has been some time on foot. Our Commises. have their instructions for that purpose & I hope their endeavours will be successful. You certainly must be mistaken in Your calculation, I cannot see by what rules of arithmetic you make our debt amot even to a tenth part of the Debt of Britain. The Resolution of Congress does not hold up an idea that the assessment is justly apportioned, that matter is to be settled hereafter & that state which raises more than shall at the adjustment appear to be her just proportion will be allowed interest for the Surplus, therefore the State that raises more than her proportion will have greatly the advantage of those who do not raise so much; as the latter will have to pay & the former to receive interest; besides, if the money appreciates (which I have no doubt of,) the State who collects it now will have a great advantage of those who will have it to Collect at its apreciated value. I therefore hope N.H. will collect at least the sum set to her and as much more as possible, I wish it may be double the Sum. I wish I could acquaint you with the designs of the British Court, but that is out of my power, some are of Opinion that there is a prospect of pease the insuing Summer, but that is an Opinion I can by no means give into, on the contrary I think every effort will be used to effect the distrac tion of America & it is absolutely necessary that we use our utmost exer tions to frustrate their designes, if we act with vigour this Campaign I have no doubt they will give up the point, Dissipation & avarice will then be the only Enemies we shall have to contend with, indeed they are at this time the most Powerful.
