152 March 4, 1779 the wealth of a country might safely be rested upon them. It is a mistake, that exclusive privileges are advantageous. The character of a monopo lizer is as odious, applied to a nation, as it is to a man, and as unprofitable as it is contemptible. But I beg pardon, Sir, for political disquisitions to so refined a politician, and for mentioning the means of peace to one enam oured of war. To the force of necessity; to the embarrassment of your finances; to that wheel of fortune which you wish not to be thrown out of, and whose revolutions will place your country as low in this as she was high in the last war; to these I leave you. When all other views are precluded, then you will see your true interests, and then you will join in a prayer for peace with Your most obedient and humble servant, AN AMERICAN MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, March 11, 1779, where it appears under the heading “For the Pennsylvania Packet. To Governor Johnstone.” 1 Writing over his often-used pseudonym “An American,” Gouverneur Morris wrote this public reply to George Johnstone in response to Johnstone’s November 27, 1778, speech to Parliament explaining the failure of the Carlisle Peace Commission. Extracts from his speech to Parliament had been printed in the Pennsylvania Packet of February 11, 1779, and more extensive extracts were printed in the March 9 issue of that newspaper. The fortunes of George Johnstone and the Carlisle Commission can be traced in many documents printed in volumes 10 and 11 of these Letters. William Paca to George Bryan Sir, 4th March 1779. We are appointed for the Purpose of enquiring into the Grounds of certain Charges against General Arnold contained in a printed Paper purporting to be Resolves of the Executive Council of Pennsylvania and are directed to report the Result of our Enquiries to Congress. 1 Whether Congress will order a Court Martial or not on those Charges will we presume depend on the Evidence we shall be able to report and their Judgment of its Sufficiency. In your’s of the 25th of February you “explicitly declare that the Coun cil is possessed of Evidence to support the Reasons alledged for their Resolves if the Congress chuse to found Charges upon them”. We cannot see the Propriety of the Congress founding Charges upon Allegations the Evidence of which is known to you but not known to them. As to the Delay which you reprobate as unprecedented permit us to observe that fourteen Days have elapsed since our Application to the Executive Council for Assistance in the Execution of our Enquiries which Assistance we have not yet been able to obtain. We mean to close our Enquiries to Morrow Evening: we have directed General Arnold to attend us and we doubt not your Zeal for public Justice
