March 5, 1779 153 will induce you to furnish us by that Time with all the Evidence you are possessed of relative to the Subject of our Enquiry. I have the Honor to be, yr. most Obed. Hble. Sevt. Wm. Paca, Chairman RC (NHi: Joseph Reed Papers). 1 See Daniel Roberdeau to Timothy Matlack, February 6; and Paca to Joseph Reed, March 3, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Friday March 5th 1779. Commercial Committee. Congres. Report from the Board of Warr, Recomend a Mode of Payment, to the Inhabitants, for what has being taken from them Per Officers in the Army agreed to be Publish’d, A Report from a Committee to empower the Commander in Chief, to setle a Cartel with the British General for the Exchange of Prisoners, for the Convention Troops, or others as he may Judge Best. A number of Letters Received &c. 6 P.M. Marine Committee. £62456’ MS (DLC). 1 The meaning of these figures has not been discovered. John Jay to Anthony Benezet Sir Philadelphia, 5 March 1779 Agreable to the Request contained in your favor of the 2d Ult. I have perused the Pamphlet you was so obliging as to send me. 1 The Benevo lence by which the Author appears to have been influenced, does him Credit, and tho I cannot subscribe to all his opinions, many of his Senti ments are liberal and merit Commendation. Civil and religious Liberty is a Blessing which I sincerely wish to all mankind; and I hope it will ever be the policy of these States so to extend and secure it to all their Citizens, as that none may have Reason to complain of Partiality or Oppression. Your favorable Opinion of me, and kind wishes for my welfare demand my Acknowledgement. I am Sir your Friend and Servant. FC (NNC: Jay Papers). In the hand of John Jay. 1 For Benezet’s February 2 letter, enclosing his pamphlet Serious Considerations on Several Important Subjects; Viz. On War and Its Inconsistency with the Gospel. Observations on Slavery. And Remarks on the Nature and Bad Effects of Spirituous Liquors, see Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 544-45. For the pamphlet, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15,737. Anthony Benezet (1713-84), a Philadelphia Quaker of French Huguenot descent, was an educator and reformer who be came Pennsylvania’s leading antislavery crusader, a cause to which Jay himself later became actively devoted. DAB.
