172 March 9, 1779 plaisance, at the Expence too often of the Treasure, and Reputation of the United States. I have thus laid before the Public a plain State of those material Points, which I have Reason to think have been made an Artful Use of to confirm the Suspicion, that I had been Active in the Political Disputes of the State of Pensilvania. There may perhaps be some others, which I have not heard of, that have been perverted to the same End. I solemnly declare, that I never was concern’d directly, or indirectly in any Writing, or Pub lication, whatsoever, relative to the political Differences in the State of Pensilvania, or in any Meeting or Conference, with any Individual, or Body of Men, on the Subject of those Differences. Though I oftentimes exprest my Sentiments with Freedom on the Form of their present Consti tution, it was in the Company of those whose Way of thinking was very Similar to my Own, and therefore not calculated (had I been even in clin’d) to make Proselites. I have been induced to enter into this Explanation, not because I am ambitious of Standing forth as a Writer (which, considering the Spirit of many late Publications is no Eligible Character) but, from an Apprehen sion that my Silence may be construed as an Admission of the Charge. I consider the Interference of any Person in the political Differences of a State, of which he is not a Citizen, during the Time he is a Member of Congress as reprehensible; and I am sensible it would be consider’d in that Light by the People, whom I had the Honor to represent. They have Experienc’d the baneful Effects of the Interference of some Delegates of Congress in the political Differences of their own State; and have Com plain’d of it through their Legislature to Congress. Happy would it be for Pensilvania if others had been as innocent of the Accusation thrown out against me, as I am! That the Case is otherwise is so notorious, as to render it unnecessary to point out the Characters. Some of them will probably be found in the Number of those, who, taking Advantage of the distressed Situation of the State of New York, have not only fomented Divisions in it, which might otherwise have been Amicably heal’d; but have, in an insidious Manner, countenanc’d an Open Revolt from the Jurisdiction of that State; thereby Exposing it to all the Miseries of a Civil Contest, and hazarding the Peace, and Union of the general Confederacy. I feel myself interested in the Happiness, and Safety of Pensilvania, and love its Inhabitants. My ardent Wish is, that she may not, when too late, lament the Effects of the Interference, I have mention’d; but that she may be able to discern her true political Interest, and not Experience the fatal Effects of a dismember’d Jurisdiction, and open Revolt, countenanced perhaps by some of those, who, at present, assume the Mask of Freinds. In order to fetter my Reputation with that Chain of Suspicion, the Links of which have been so artfully forged,'*it has been industriously insinuated, that I was on Account of the Impropriety of my public Con duct omitted in the last Nomination of Delegates for the State of New York. The true State of that Matter is as follows. A Close, and unremitted
