March 9, 1779 173 Attention to public Business, for the Space of three Years, had much Embarrassed my private Affairs, and impair’d my Constitution. I there fore was Constrained to give in my Resignation previous to the last Ap pointment of Delegates for the State of New York; and assign’d my Rea sons for so doing to the Legislature of that State. In a late Letter which I received from the honorable Speaker of the Assembly of New York, he informed me that my Reasons were deem’d Satisfactory by the House, and that he was directed to assure me, that nothing but my having de clin’d would have induc’d them to omit me in their present Nomination. Nothing but the Duty, which I owe to my own Reputation compells me to mention this Matter for which (under any other Circumstances) I might Subject myself to the Imputation of Vanity. Though I have never Courted, I wish to deserve the good Opinion of the People of America; and particularly of the Citizens of my own State, for whose Information principally this Publication is intended. 9 Should I, after all my Exertions, be disappointed in this Object, I shall console myself with the Consciousness of having Endeavor’d to discharge my pub lic Trust with Fidelity to my own State, and to America in General, without dreading the undeserved Censure of Individuals or even of par ticular States. W. Duer. MS (NN: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). In the hand of Duer. Endorsed by John Jay: “Mr. Duers Vindication v. T. G. 1779.” Endorsed by William A. Duer: “Found amongst the Papers of the late John Jay—& given to me by his Son Peter A. Jay. Jany. 15th. 1830. W. A. Duer.” MS (NN: Emmet Collection, no. 669). In the hand of Duer. Endorsed: “Duers Defence.” Both copies appear to have been made by Duer from a now-missing draft which may have been sent to a New York newspaper for publication. The copy endorsed by Jay appears to have been made after the Emmet copy because it includes words that were inserted to replace words crossed out in the latter. Both copies have textual omissions which were supplied in the margin by Duer. The most important of the discrepancies are noted in the footnotes below. 1 William Duer wrote this statement to defend himself against the charges signed “T.G.” [Tiberius Gracchus], a pseudonym used by Pennsylvania Council secretary Timothy Mat lack, which had been printed in the Pennsylvania Packet on March 2. Matlack’s denunication of him had been triggered by the publication of a letter written by Duer’s colleague Gouver neur Morris that had appeared in the Packet on February 27. “By intermeddling with the state politics of Pennsylvania,” Matlack had charged, Duer had “raised jalousies concerning him which subject his conduct to close inspection, and in the end, brought him to the hatred and contempt of many people of this state.” Although Duer states near the end of this essay that he wrote this response for publication, no evidence has been found that it was ever printed. However, no copies of either The New York Journal in Poughkeepsie or The New-York Packet, and the American Advertiser in Fishkill have been found for March 1779. Since he obviously sent one copy of his “Vindication” to his colleague Jay, it seems reasonable to conclude that Duer, who had left Congress in December 1778, sent it for publication in a Philadelphia newspaper but that Jay decided not to, perhaps to avoid exacerbating interstate relations. For Matlack’s acknowledgment of his use of the pseudonym “T.G.,” which he employed in several attacks on Gen. Benedict Arnold, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:271. For the public letter of Gouverneur Morris that elicited Matlack’s scorn and prompted his simultaneous attack on Duer, see Gouverneur Morris to the Pennsylvania Packet, February 27, 1779. 2 In the Emmet MS, Duer wrote “in the City of Philadelphia” in place of the preceding five words.
