174 March 9, 1779 3 Duer took his seat in Congress on April 7, Vin .JCC, 7:230. 4 The Emmet copy has “Weal” rather than “Wellfare.” 5 For Duer’s discussion of this episode in April 1777, when he expressed concern over the consequence of Pennsylvania’s “Langour” in the face of a new British invasion, see these Letters, 6:601-4, especially p. 603n.2. 6 For this December 4, 1777, resolution, see JCC, 9:1002. 7 The Emmet copy has inserted here: “of the Resolutions.” 8 The Emmet copy has inserted here: “These Ideas prevailing, the Resolution was amended accordingly, and Confined to the State of Pensilvania.” 9 For James Duane’s concern over New York’s initial failure to acknowledge Duer’s service as a delegate, and the legislature’s belated effort to make amends by extolling “his Zeal for the Cause of his Country,” see Duane to George Clinton, January 3, and February 20, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday March 9th. [1779] Commercial Committee. This day chiefly spent on the Report, for Re- cruting the Army of 80 Batallions. 6PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir Philadela March the 9th. 1779 My letters intended for the last post did not get in time to the office. Nothing of any importance has turned up since. By a Letter from the General we are informed of some preparations at New-York for the Em- barcation of a small Detachment. It is thought they are for Georgia. The Event of the late invasion of Jersey you will see by the papers. Mr. Hudson has a Letter which is the latest Account from S. Carolina which says, the Enemy in attempting to march to Augusta (which lies high up the Savannah) met with a severe check from Genl. Williams. Enclosed is a letter from Col Richardson to me respecting Mr. James Gilchrist who is now at New-York and very desirous of returning and residing in Maryland. I did not think it proper to move Congress for a passport, being fully convinced that no such power belongs to them or the Delegates. Who shall be subjects of the State must depend alone upon the will of the State. I should be glad to have your advice and opinion upon this Matter. 1 Should you want any further information concerning this gentleman Col. Richardson will readily give it. I have sent you by this post a pamphlet called observations on the American Revolution as drawn up by a Comtee. of Congress. It is little more than connecting and throwing together in one point of view, the proceedings of Congress; also Governor Johnson’s speech and the address of the House of Commons to
