180 March 9, 1779 Examination of his Witnesses by the Grand Inquest before whom he is charged. Having observed in our last, that fourteen Days had elapsed, since our application to you for Evidence, You are pleased to reply “as to the fourteen Days you mentioned this Delay surely cannot be attributed to us, when you recollect how great a Part of that Time has been employed in hearing General Arnold & his Aids with other Evidence without Notice to this State as Parties & Complainants.” We perfectly recollect the Reverse of what you alledge, and in express Terms declare, that no Part of that Time was employed in Hearing General Arnold & his Aids or in taking other Evidence. General Arnold was never heard on the Charges con tained in your printed Proceedings, and referred to us on the 15th of February, till the 5th instant, which was the Day after our Letter, to which you have made your Reply, and of Consequence not within the fourteen Days you mention. The Committee tired out with fruitless Appli cations to you for Evidence and repeatedly prest by General Arnold for a Hearing, with all the Anxiety & Sensibility of a Soldier, injured in his Honor & Reputation, we resolved on the 3d instant to close our Enquiries on the 5th: both you & the General were notified of it, and you were told, that we did not doubt but your Regard for public Justice would induce you to furnish us by that Time with the Evidence you were possessed of. We wish for your own Sakes you had spared your solemn Protestation: it is no Prooff of Dignity of Conduct. Vehement Delcarations and violent Protestations are sometimes the Result of Passions roused in the telling of Truths—or the Apprehension of it. We shall certainly make no Report derogatory to the Rights and Interests of Pensylvania: such a Report would only disgrace ourselves. As to the Honor of Council we shall report the Truth: and therefore, if you yourselves have done Nothing derogatory to the Honor of Council, you have nothing to fear from our Report. 5 I have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, Your most Obedient, humble Servant, Wm. Paca, Chairman. RC (NHi: Joseph Reed Papers). 1 The council’s March 5 letter is not in PCC, but a draft of it is in the Joseph Reed Papers, NHi. 2 JCC, 13:184. 3 Not found. 4 See Paca to Joseph Reed, March 3, 1779, note. 5 Although Paca’s committee submitted a report on its dealings with Pennsylvania on March 17, congressional action on that report was still pending when a request was received from the state for a conference with a congressional committee to discuss the crisis that had been reached in its relations with Congress. See JCC, 13:324-26, 337, 374-79. For the delegate’s reception of that request and the subsequent resolution of the impasse that had developed, see Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debate, March 26, 1779.
