March 9, 1779 181 Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia March 9th. 1779. In our last letter we promised your excellency a copy of the act of Congress recommending to the States to the Southward to permit the States of Massa. Bay and Rhode-Island & Providence Plantations to pur chase Proviss. in their posts for the supply of their inhabitants. A copy we are informed hath been sent to you by the President. 1 We at the same time promised you a copy of the act reducing our quota of the tax for the current year to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, which we now do ourselves the honour to inclose, hoping that it will prove agreeable to the Assembly. 2 It was not intended by Congress that the apportionments of the former or present tax should be considered hereafter as their precise just quotas of those taxes. It was impossible to adjust our equitable propor tion of the present tax. If it should turn out that we have paid more than our just quota, we shall have credit for the surplusage and the interest thereof; if it should be less we must pay the deficiency with the interest, perhaps in an appretiated currency. We know that there will be difficulty in collecting so large a Sum as two hundred and fifty thousand dollars in our state, under its present deplorable circumstances; but, distressed as it is, we presume that the difficulty will principally arise from the impracti cability of apportioning the tax equally among the inhabitants. However we hope that the State will struggle through it. In a private letter to Mr. Ellery from the Lieut. Governor 3 he is in formed that the Authority of our State complain that we do not send them intelligence enough. We could wish to gratify the Assembly in that or any other way; but really we have none to communicate. We mentioned in our last, we believe, that there was no prospect that the British army would receive any reinforcements, this campaign. This is our opinion, and we think it is well-founded. We have not received any Intelligence from Georgia since the first account of the enemy’s taking possession of it. Nothing from the W. Indies; nor any thing from Europe that we are at liberty to communicate. The necessity of a respectable Army in the field this campaign, whether peace or war should be the object, is so apparent as to need no arguments either to evince or illustrate it. A brilliant stroke this might make it the last campaign. Sincerely wishing for an honorable peace, and every blessing to our country and your excellency we are with great respect, Yr. excellencys most obedient, humble Servts, William Ellery RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written and signed by William Ellery. 1 See John Jay to the Massachusetts Council, February 27, 1779, note. 2 See John Jay to William Greene, March 5, 1779. 3 That is, Jabez Bowen.
