March 9, 1779 183 until restrained by laws that rendered their safety precarious; and, al though it frequently happens that such men will change their professions, and go with the tide of popularity it seldom happens that they forsake their opinions. Ye shall know them by their fruits. On the other hand, patriotism is a virtue which few men possess, and a real patriot, of distin guished abilities to serve his country, is a jewel of inestimable value. But the views of patriots, in the common acceptation of the word, are, like those of priests, directed towards themselves; and they generally make the same use of that implicit confidence which is reposed in them by the people. I rejoice that America resisted; not because I disliked her rulers, but that the liberty and happiness of her people might be established on a solid basis. It is not likely, therefore, that I shall change the object of my first pursuit, to accommodate those whose friendship I esteem, or to pro mote their aggrandizement. I own, I reject that system of philosophy which makes all mens actions modifications of self-love, as a pernicious theory subversive of morality; whilst I esteem the man whose self-love is so directed as to be subservient to the public good. But ambition and the love of money are always dangerous, and very often prove ruinous, to those who are under their influence. They frequently oblige men to assume the despicable character of a trimmer; and, whilst they imagine that they walk in the paths of consummate wisdom, and deceive the world, they seldom fail to deceive themselves. He is a bad politician who is yet to learn the true interest of these United States, in their relation to Europe; and he is a weak one, indeed, who cannot determine whether the measures at pre sent pursued, are calculated to promote it. MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, March 18, 1779. 1 These intercepted letters, printed by James Rivington in the Royal Gazette on February 3, 1779, were written by Carter Braxton, a former delegate to Congress from Virginia, to mercantile associates in France and Holland. 2 Braxton’s letters contained a number of passages that Smith believed would discredit him. In a communication of December 26, 1778, to John Ross in Nantes, Braxton wrote disparagingly of “designing” French ministers who had deceived the United States by alter ing provisions of the treaty to France’s advantage. He also castigated Arthur, Richard Henry, and William Lee for their roles in the “trial” of Silas Deane in Congress. Concerning the charges that Deane had made in his December 5 address in the Pennsylvania Packet, Braxton stated that “I am exceeding well acquainted with the character of the Lee’s, and know them to be actuated by such base principles, and full of such artifice, and intrigue, that no new proof was necessary to fix my opinion. ... I had long seen the impropriety of entrusting the secrets of America with men of such characters, but it was not to be prevented. R. H. Lee’s interest in Congress, joined to that of the eastern states, was too great to be withstood.” Further, in a letter of the following day to the firm of George, Clifford & Tysett in Holland, Braxton wrote that “with respect to our future trade in case of peace, there is not a doubt but your nation and Great-Britain would partake of three-fourths of it: For although we are reluctantly, and I fear imprudently tied to France, during the war, yet that being over, the people will break through every restraint or punctilio, to return to England for the goods they formerly purchased, after which they long and pine every day of the year.” In a third letter of January 12, 1779, to Campbell, Beale & Co., Braxton outlined a plan to
