186 March 11, 1779 lar the Matters and Things contained and set forth in the Record or Minutes of the Court aforesaid in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective parties in the above Appeal do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of David Stevens entered in the above Cause be dismissed with Costs And that the Judgment or Sentence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid pronounced and published in the said Cause be in all it’s Parts confirmed and established And We do adjudge and order that David Stevens the Appellant pay unto John Henderson and others the Appellees in the above Cause two hundred and eighty Dollars expended in supporting and sustaining the Sentence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid against the said Appeal &c. Wm Hy. Drayton William Ellery J Root MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 35). In a clerical hand and signed by Drayton, Ellery, and Root. 1 The appeal from the New Jersey Admiralty Court in the case of David Stevens et al. v John Henderson et al. had been received by Congress on October 23, 1778, and referred immedi ately to the Committee on Appeals. Because of its similarity in facts and circumstances to the better known case of the sloop Active, this case was delayed while Congress determined the extent of the committee’s authority in prize cases, a delay which prompted Henderson to petition Congress at least three times in 1779 for a speedy review of the case. When Congress reached a decision on the committee’s authority early in March, the committee resumed its review of the case on March 9. In reference to this decision and the controversy surrounding the case of the Active, William Henry Drayton added the following explanatory declaration to the present case file. “The Court declared that Congress having determined that their jurisdiction on appeal extended to a controul as well over the verdicts of Juries as over the Decrees of Judges in Courts established for the decision of captures on the high Seas, & thereupon having no doubt that their authority could be effectually supported, we’re now ready to proceed in the dispatch of causes.” And to Drayton’s declaration, Jesse Root ap pended the following endorsement: “The President having made the within Declaration, proceeded to the hearing of the Appeal from New Jersey.” The New Jersey Court of Admiralty had upheld the claim of Henderson and his associates to the British schooner John and Sally, “lately commanded by Rufus Gardner,” and its cargo of Jamaica spirits and Muscavado sugar, which they claimed by virtue of having overpow ered Gardner while they were serving on board the schooner. But before they could reach New Jersey with their prize, they had themselves been captured by Capt. David Stevens, commander of the privateer sloop Chance. Although the schooner was libeled by Stevens, the New Jersey Court, in a case heard at Trenton on August 27, 1778, awarded the ship and its cargo to Henderson. Stevens thereupon appealed the case to Congress. In denying Stevens’ appeal, the Committee on Appeals was upholding the state court’s finding in behalf of Henderson et al. See JCC, 13:44, 96, 251; PCC, item 42, 3:375-78, item 196, 2:102; and N. J. Archives, 2d ser. 2:356-57, 396. See also Committee on Appeals Decree, December 15, 1778, note. John Fell’s Diary Thursday March 11th [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Went in a Committee of the whole House, That if Our Allies would Support us, we should Insist on Novia
