192 March 12, 1779 from the Navy Board at Boston of their having despatched a Schooner called the General Arnold for Senepuxent to carry off the flour & Iron remaining at that place. 1 We request therefore that you will on receipt of this immediately give Orders (should that Vessel have Arrived) that the flour and Iron be shipped on board of her and that she be despatched back to Boston. But if she has not arrived we may conclude she has been taken and in that case you will order the flour & Iron to be sold to the inhabitants. Some time ago we ordered the Navy Board at Boston to Send round to your address three small Vessels to be laded with flour & Iron for the use of the Navy in the Eastern Department. We now suppose that some of those Vessels will Shortly make their appearence, therefore we have this day ordered the Commissary of Purchases to deliver to you at Baltimore from the Public Magazines any quantity of flour you may require for lading these Vessels not exceeding 1200 Barrels which quantity we deem will be Sufficient. If hereafter it should prove otherwise you will please to advise us and we will give the Commissary fresh Orders. We have also given Orders to the Quarter Master to direct his Deputy at your place to deliver to you ten Tons barr Iron which he had been formerly Ordered by Congress to purchase for a particular purpose, but it has not been applied to that purpose. This Iron you will please to receive and Ship on board the Vessels with the flour and as soon as they are laded you will please to despatch them for Boston addressed to the Navy Board there to whom you will please to forward bills of lading and Invoices of the Cargoes with your Accounts of any disbursments you may make for the Vessels. We shall chearfully allow you an adequate compensation for your trou ble in doing this business & are Sir, Your very hble Servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, this date. Francis Lewis to George Clinton Phila. 13th March 1779. Dear Sir, I was this day favored with your letter of the 6th Instant by Mr. Sands. You do me honor in requesting a continuance of my corre spondence, which I shall with the greatest pleasure Cultivate. By this conveyance I transmit you the latest public newspapers which contains everything of consequence, except one favorable account, which I am not as yet at liberty to devulge, when that restraint is recinded by Congress, you shall have the earliest intillegence, from him who has the honor to subscribe himself with the utmost Regard & Esteem, Your Excel lency’s most Obedient Humble Servant, Fra’ Lewis. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:658.
