March 14, 1779 193 John Jay to Robert R. Livingston Dear Robt. Philadelphia 14 March 1779 Mr. Sands delivered me your Favr. of the 4th Inst. Yesterday. 1 It gave me much Pleasure. The Length, the Subjects and the Spirit of it pleased me. Dont apologize for Egotisms, for I would much rather receive them than not. Unless the Pain my last occasioned was severe, I dont regret it. That You have deserved well of your Country is agreed, and that you became latterly a little relaxed, is not disputable. You have never been thrown out or distanced in the Pursuit of Virtue, but like some game Horses, you sometimes want a Whip. This is a coarse Simile. Friendship will pardon it. That full Confidence which enduced You to think loud, flatters me. The like Return is due and shall be paid, but Letters in our Days are danger ous Conveyances of our Sentiments on many Subjects. I seldom write without adverting to the Consequences of a Miscarriage, and hence the Reserve & Caution which mark all such of mine, as are trusted to com mon Carriers or doubtful Bearers. The State of your Politics is much as I expected. I fear some of your Measures are more severe than Wisdom or Humanity will justify. Poster ity will think dispassionately & probably condemn, especially when in formed, that they were hast’ned, lest the Influence of Resentment should be lost. My Silence on a certain Subject arose from reflecting that an Explana tion ought not to be on Paper. 2 The Probability of it turns on an Event not yet determined. If I discern right, there will be Room. A Genteel Suit of Cloaths, will cost a noble price. We shall be exceed ingly happy to see you. I hope your Visit will not be delayed longer than the Roads may render it necessary. Manage matters so as to stay at least a Month. My best Respects to your Mama, Mrs. Livingston & the Rest of the Family. 3 I am Dr. Robt, Your Friend & Servt, John Jay. RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston’s March 4 letter is in Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 570-71. 2 For this “Subject,” which concerned Livingston’s willingness to accept a diplomatic assignment if Congress wished to consider him for an appointment abroad, see Jay to Living ston, January 13, 1779, note 1. 3 Livingston’s April 21 response to Jay is in Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 583-84. Gouverneur Morris to George Washington Dr General. Phila. 14th March 1779. You will excuse in me the Liberty I have taken in requesting Colo. Morgan to call on you. That Gentleman can give you much and impor-
