198 March 15, 1779 Georgia and South Carolina, with the frontiers and sea coasts appear to be their objects at present. Whether Gen. Clinton will take the field or not must depend on the succors he shall receive and the strength of our army. The flattering royal visits that are industriously made to the Nobility and gentry of England may possibly give such energy to the militia as to enable the sending a small reenforcement from their national troops to Gen. Clinton. With our present prospects every nerve should be strained to make our Army strong. By being prepared we shall have a moral certainty of defeating the designs of our enemies the next campaign, which will in my opinion put a glorious period to the war. I am, with much esteem and affection yours, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 For Gouverneur Morris’ Observations on the American Revolution, see William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, February 7, 1779, note 4. Board of Treasury to Benjamin Lincoln Treasury Office March 16. 1779 In Philadelphia. Sir Felix Warley Esqr. being appointed Auditor of the Detachment of the Army in the Southern District, 1 it is the Direction of Congress as well as the Particular Desire of the Board of Treasury that you exert every Mea sure in your Power to facilitate and support him in the Execution of his Office, and see that he is accommodated with the Decorum due to his important Station. When you consider how much the CEconomy of the Army and your own Care in Matters of Account depend on the Institution of this Office, we are persuaded that it will give you Pleasure to carry into Effect the Intentions of Congress in their full Extent. 2 I have the Honor to be, With great Respect, Sir, Your most obed Servt. Jas. Duane, Chr. In the Name of the Board of Treasury RC (OMC: Slack Collection). Written and signed by Duane. 1 Felix Warley had been appointed an auditor of the army on February 11, 1779. See JCC, 13:177, where his name is spelled Varley. 2 James Duane wrote a nearly identical letter this day to Gen. John Sullivan announcing that William Bedlow had been appointed an auditor of the army. Gates Papers, NN. For the appointment of Bedlow on February 9, see JCC, 13:112-13, 156. James Duane to George Washington Dear General, Philad. 16h March 1779 Your Favour has been presented to the Committee of Conference. 1 I beg you will do me the Justice to believe that my Zeal for the publick
