March 17, 1779 203 William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror Philadelphia 16 March 1779 Your favor of the 9th Ulto is this moment come to hand & as I am told the post goes out in half an hour I have not time to make a full reply. It has ever been a principle with me to support Truth & integrity against the opposite Charecters, this naturaly leads me to oppose Mr. D 1 who has infamously endeavourd to stab the Charecter of the most Faithful & most able Servant that America has had in Europe & for no other reason but because he was a check to his avarices & I may with propriety add vilanous designs. However as those things will all come to light in due time, I will drop the subject for the present. We have very favorable accots from the southward which time will not permit me to give you the perticulars of. The advantages gained by our little Army there will be attended with very important benifits, must refer you to my next for perticulars, in the meantime, I am most affectionately, Yours, W.W. RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers). Endorsed: “Reed per post April 9.” 1 Silas Deane. Board of Treasury to a Committee of Congress Sir Philad. 17h March 1779. Besides the Satisfaction it woud give the Committee on the Treasury to see a Requisition which a Sister State has at Heart, complied with: on principles of Policy we woud wish there shoud be no other Paper Cur rency than Continental. But such is the State of demands on the publick Treasury; & such the Exertions which must be necessary to preserve the publick Faith & fulfil our Obligations; that we are compelled to declare that it is Still out of our Power to promise the Supply of money requested by the honourable House of Assembly of Pensylvania. 1 We are directed to emit 52,000,000 which must be delivered out the 1st of August to exchange the two Emissions called of May 1777 and April 1778 & for other Purposes. There are 15,000,000 in arrear, for a great part of which Warrants are issued: The Supplies on opening the Cam paign Are to be provided for & will be large; & it will be with the utmost Difficulty, and by the most strenuous Exertions, that money can be emit ted in Time for their great & Various Demands. I am, Sir, Your most Obed Servant, Jas. Duane for Self, Mr Geary & Mr Carmickle, Mr Griffen & Mr Langworthy & Mr Freelinghuysen, the Com. on the Treasury. RC (DNA: PCC, item 20). Written and signed by James Duane. Addressed: “Honble George Plater Esqr.” 1 The Board of Treasury was responding to a March 4 letter from the Pennsylvania Assembly to its delegates in Congress containing a request for a loan from Congress to avoid
