204 March 17, 1779 “the disagreable Necessity of Striking & uttering new State Emissions.” The letter had been referred by Congress to a committee chaired by George Plater, for which see the following entry. JCC, 13:292; and PCG, item 69, 1:639-42. Committee of Congress to the Board of Treasury Sir Philada March 17 1779 The Committee to whom the Letter from the Speaker of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, upon the subject of borrowing a Sum of Money of Con gress, was referr’d, cannot proceed upon that business untill they shall be furnishd with a State of the Treasury; I must therefore beg that you will furnish the Committee with such information as you have in your power; 1 and also whether you think it possible for Congress to grant this requisi tion & comply with their other engagements. 2 I am sir, Your Obedt Srt, Geo Plater, RC (DNA: PCG, item 20). In a clerical hand and signed by George Plater. Addressed: “Hon. James Duane Esq.” 1 See the preceding entry. 2 Although Plater’s committee recommended against granting Pennsylvania’s request, Congress nevertheless resolved on March 20 “That a sum not exceeding two millions of dollars be granted on loan to the State of Pensylvania, at 6 per cent, per annum, agreeable to the request of the said State.” JCC, 13:335-36, 344. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday Mar 17th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. 1 Motion to Publish, the Acct, that the King of the 2 Scisellys would open his Ports for the Vesells of the United States, And also to Publish as much of the Information from the french Minister as is necessary for the Public to be acquainted with. 2 Report of the Committee on Genl Arnolds affair Postponed till Monday. Letter from the Speaker of the Assembly 3 for the Loan of 2 Million of Dollars. Committee of the whole to take in to consideration the Bounde- ries &c. 6PM Met the Committee on foreign Affairs. MS (DLC). 1 According to the journals, the first item of business considered by the delegates this day was a motion by Henry Laurens (seconded by Samuel Adams), “That a member from Massachusetts bay be added to the Committee on Foreign Affairs [i.e., the foreign affairs inquiry committee, which was composed of one delegate from each state, not the Committee for Foreign Affairs], in the room of Mr. Gerry.” Because the proposal encountered opposi tion, however, a motion was adopted to postpone consideration of Laurens’ motion “until Mr. Gerry comes in.” Little else is known about the incident except that Laurens and Adams had acted without the knowledge or consent of Gerry, who did not react publicly to it until April 21, when he
