208 March 18, 1779 The Conquerant had been captured by the British armed sloop Granby, but off the North Carolina coast it began to leak and list badly and while its British prize crew was seeking aid from coastal residents, Pillas, the French mate, and the would-be rescuers regained control of the ship and brought her into Bogue Harbor. When she docked without papers, the sloop was libeled by William Gibbs, the state naval officer, and others who claimed that she was British property. Gibbs appealed the case to Congress, which referred the case to the Com mittee on Appeals on February 6, 1779, but in this decree the committee affirmed the state admiralty court decision. See JCC, 13:150; and transcripts of the state court records, with other pertinent depositions, in case file no. 42, RG 267, DNA. John Fell’s Diary Thursday 18th. [March 1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Letter from Genl Washington Rec- comending a better Plan for Cloathing and Recruting the Army. Letter from Genl Schuyler to Resign, 7 No 5 Ay Negative. Report from the Committee, to the Request from Pennsylvania, that the Treasury could not comply with their Request. Memorial Read from Mr Girrard. 6PM Committee on foreign Affairs. MS (DLC). John Fell’s Diary Friday Mar 19th. 1779 Coml. Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters Read. Went in to the Con sideration of the sundry articles agreed for an Ultimatom in setling Bounderies, long Debates till 4. 6PM Attended the Marine Committee. MS (DLC). John Jay to William Galvan Sir, Philadelphia 19th March 1779. This morning Congress took your memorial into consideration, & direct me to inform you that they cannot comply with your Request for leave to raise an Independent Corps. 1 That part of your memorial which respects your desire of being ap pointed an Inspector is referred to the Board of War. 2 The Zeal you express for the welfare of these States, and your desire to promote it must be very agreeable to every American. I am Sir, Your most Obedt. & very Hble Servt. JJ.
