March 20, 1779 211 3 Pursuant to a subsequent report of the board, Congress on April 3 empowered the commissioners of Indian affairs for the northern department to confer commissions on “faith ful chiefs of the Oneidas and Tuscaroras, giving them such ranks as the said commissioners shall judge they merit.’yCC, 13:411. James Duane to Philip Schuyler My dear General Philad 20 March 1779 Much as I have said on the Chapter of Resignations in the Letter which accompanies this I totally forgot to answer two of your Queries. Know then that neither General Lee nor General St Glair have resignd. The latter has I believe taken his place in the Line. The former is in Town but talks of going in a few days to his Farm in Virginia. He seemd much hurt by the [Apirrance?] of the sentence of the Court martial at first: but is long since restored to apparent good humour; & bears his misfortune much better than was expected. General Glover sent in his Resignation three weeks ago on Account of his private affairs but Congress declin’d receiving it, allowing him however a furlough for I think Six months. 1 You will be deemd every Indulgence which you require on Acct of your Health: But why shoud you wish to be a Silent spectator where You have a Right & abilities to direct? At least let us first see our Frontiers pro tected, and proper Posts established for our future Security. But I will not enlarge, only to repeat that I am Dear Sir, Your Affectionate & most Obed Servant, Jas. Duane RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 See the second letter of John Jay to Washington, March 2, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Saturday March 20th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Letters from General How, Govr Rutledge So Carolina, Govr Henry of Virginia. Report of G. Morris for a Fast, to be on the first Thursday in May. MS (DLC). Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia March 20th 1779 We have received your Letter of the 10th of Feby. informing Us, that the State which We have the Honor to represent “has often, for a long Season, been quite ignorant of what has been transacting at Congress,” &
