220 March 21, 1779 reputation: At least from your professions of friendship & regard for me, I thought it incredible, that such a measure could be seriously resolved on without your giving me some previous intimation of it. Besides it appeared to me altogether improbable and too injurious to the reputation of Coun cil to suppose that words spoken in July 1778 1 should lie rankling in their minds till March ’79; more especially when I considered that a few weeks after the transaction, I had received a pressing invitation to meet the person offended who then held the first post in government & others of the highest rank, to form a club for purposes you are well acquainted with; that I attended one evening and received every mark not only of civility and respect, but of confidence & friendship; that at parting I received a cordial invitation to join the club and upon my mentioning how my evenings were engrossed by the duties of my office was told that the company sensible of this would not insist on a constant attendance, but that my occasional visits would be agreeable. It is true I did not attend again. But no offense could be taken as there was an obvious reason for my not attending & whatever private objections I had remained secret in my own bosom. For the reasons above mentioned I thought it altogether improbable that my name should at this time be brought into your dispute. But, it seems, I was mistaken. A point is now to be carried, and to attain this, every bond of friendship is to be broken, every sentiment which would influence a generous mind is to be sacrificed. Nay, it is said that a person in high office and confidence of council has declared “That they are determined to put every thing to the issue and either to sink Congress or sink themselves” or words to that effect. Can it be possible that such a resolution is taken and an avowal of it encouraged by those who are entrusted with the supreme executive power of Pensylvania? Yet the per son making the declaration had a right to know, & must have been very deficient in his duty if it was longer to remain a secret. If this is really the case, it will be easy to account for what to me seemed so highly improb able. But the difficulty still occurs how to credit this which seems to sur pass all belief. What must be the consequence if either event takes place? Have you, Sir, have Council provided for your safety so as to be guarded against the consequences? You are surely too wise and too prudent to put all to the hazard. The world will never believe you capable of such folly. Pride and passion are bad councillors; but cannot be supposed to influ ence the conduct of a prudent man. Suppose the worst that could happen to America, personal safety, nay riches and honors will be but a poor recompence for the loss of character and the curses of posterity. I pray you, Sir, to consider that in contests such as those in which we are en gaged, Suspicion and jealousy are awake; that however patriotic and upright your designs are, they may be misconceived or misinterpreted. Already surmises are creeping in; and people are beginning to sound each others sentiments by shrugs and wishes that all may be right. Slander will soon begin to open her mouth. A people who wish to be free will ever be
