222 March 21, 1779 1 The best clue to the meaning of this reference that has been found is the following entry from the minutes of the Pennsylvania Council for July 13, 1778. “An indecent & affronting application having been made by Charles Thompson, Secretary of Congress, to the Hon’ble George Bryan, Esq’r, Vice President, demanding possession of a House which he says Colo. Proctor unjustly detains from him, & insisting [Blank in Council Book].” Pa. Council Minutes, 11:531. Little is known about this incident beyond what is contained in this quotation and in Thomson’s letter to Reed, but Bryan had apparently revived the memory of it in mid February 1779 when the Pennsylvania Council was collecting evidence about insults experi enced by the state at the hands of Continental officials. This conclusion can be deduced from the following one-sentence letter to Vice President Bryan from Daniel Roberdeau, dated “Monday Morning, Feb’y 21, 1779.” “Be pleased to furnish me,” Roberdeau wrote, “with the Date of the Resolution respecting the papers laid before Congress by the Supreme Executive Council, said in the Journal to be from T. Matlack.” See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:198; where it is endorsed “Date of the paper enquired for, is 13 July, 1779.” Although the evidence of this document is patently flawed—the endorsement should have read 1778 in stead of “1779”; and February 21, 1779, was a Sunday and not “Monday”—it seems clear that Bryan’s resurrection of this episode provided the occasion for the letter from Thomson. The latter was obviously disappointed in Reed and the council for letting their passionate pursuit of Arnold cloud their judgment to such an extent that they injected a number of tangential issues into their dispute over the general’s malfeasance and in the process under mined their own case. See also the “fifth” complaint of Pennsylvania against Continental officers quoted in Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debate, March 26, 1779, note 1. Thomas Burke to George Washington Dr Sir Philadelphia March 22d 1779. When I had the pleasure of Seeing you in this City, I had a little Conversation with you on the Subject of Reinlisting Such of the North Carolina Troops and levies whose time of Service might be nearly expired. My Collegues and myself wrote to the State on the Same Subject. 1 The Assembly thereupon resolved that “three hundred dollars per man be given to each Soldier who shall reinlist for one year or more in the North Carolina Continental Service.” 2 The delegates are authorised to act ac cordingly, and we are unwilling to take any measures without previously Consulting you lest we Should Contravene Some general Orders by you given under the late regulations for recruiting the army. We are inclined to give the State bounty, in addition to the Continental, to all who shall inlist during the war. We deem Soldiers obtained on Such Terms better worth the agregated bounty than Soldiers inlisted for one year are worth the State bounty, and indeed Sir we are disposed to do every thing in favor of the Soldiers, deeming them the most useful, the most Suffering, and most important order of our fellow Citizens. My Collegues concur with me in requesting your advice on this Subject as soon as possible and in assuring you we Shall Cooperate with you with the greatest chearful- ness. 3 I beg leave Sir to offer you my best wishes and to present my most respectful Compliments to your Lady. I have the honor to be Sir, with the greatest respect and Esteem, your very obt. Svt, Tho Burke 4
