March 22, 1779 223 RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 See North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell, December 22, 1778, note 3. 2 For this North Carolina Assembly action, which was transmitted to the state’s delegates in a March 1 letter from Gov. Richard Caswell, see N.C. State Records, 13:608, 718, 721, 14:25-26. 3 For Washington’s April 5 response to Burke’s request for advice, in which he declared that “I am most clearly convinced of the impolicy of State bounties in all cases,” see Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:336-37. 4 This day Burke also began another letter, of which only the following fragment survives. It is endorsed “unfinished Letter suppose to Col. Harrison.” “I delay’d thus long answering your favor of Feby 18th in hopes that every day would bring to a period some important Business on which we have for some time been engaged, but delays, many of which are the Effect of Artifice, have hitherto intervened and prevented me, and at this time I am not at liberty to communicate anything. “I am in Sentiment with you on our finances, and our affairs generally, but my hopes are more Sanguin than yours, perhaps from having a filler information. I have great Confidence in the Resources of our People, and I am persuaded.” Burke Papers, NcU. John Fell’s Diary Monday March the 22d. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Order of the Day, for considering the Ultimatum for the Fishery, Long Debate. Report for Appointing Clothier General &c to be considered tomorrow morning. 6 P.M. Committee on foreign Affairs. MS (DLC). Samuel Holten’s Diary [March 22, 1779] 22. Monday. I dined with Mr. Gerard & a No. of the members of Congress dined there. I wrote to the Council of Massa. Bay & to Mr. Avery, & Mr. Warner. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 Holten’s letters to the Massachusetts Council and to Elias E. Warner are printed in the following entries, but his letter to John Avery has not been found. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia March 22d, 1779. By a resolution of the Genl. Assembly of the 15th of Octr. last, the honble. Council are desired to transmit or cause to be transmitted, to each of the delegates from the Massachusetts-Bay, then in Congress the sum of
