224 March 22, 1779 £800—And as I am desirous of giving the board as little trouble as possi ble; Therefore if a warrant is made out for the above sum, on the treasurer of the State, payable to me or my order, and delivered to the care of Mr. Avery Depy. Secy, is all I desire of the honble. Council in consequence of said resolution. I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect & esteem, your most obedient & most huml servant, S Holten P.S. Congress on Saturday last resolved that it be recommended to the several states to set apart the first Thursday in May next, as a day of fasting & prayer thro’ these states. 1 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honble. Jeremiah Powell Esqr. president of the honble. Council of Massachusetts Bay.” 1 See John Jay to the States, this date. Samuel Holten to Elias Warner [March 22, 1779] [. . ,]Self with interest: I suppose Mrs. Holten had not then received a Sum of money I sent her about that time; The remainder of the money, which I suppose will be about £40—I desire you 1 to transmit to Mrs. Holten by some safe hand; Colo. Hutchinson who represents the Town of Danvers, will deliver to Mrs. Holten any letters you may send with plea sure, if you’l let him know whose business it respects. It is natural to suppose that I shall be desirous of knowing whither you are able to transact this business; Therefore a few lines from you will be very Acceptable, inclosing my reciept & note given to Mr. Hancock if you procure them, but in order to guard against Accidents, I desire you to take my name from the same, before you inclose them. It is possible the money may be sent by the honl board to me, before this reaches you, in that case, please to return me the inclosed order, 2 with Mr. Hancock’s letter & account, and I’ll send you the money you ad vanced to Mrs. Holten by the first oppertunity, Yours affectionately FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten and endorsed by him: “Copy of a letter to Mr. Elias E. Warner, March 22d. 1779. This business is all Settled.” First page or pages of this letter are missing. 1 Elias Warner (1750-81), brother-in-law of Samuel Holten and a Boston merchant, had apparently been pressing Holten for repayment of a debt. In addition to the endorsement on this letter quoted above, Holten also made the following relevant notes on a separate sheet: “Minutes taken from my memo book—I wrote Mr. Warner Nov 10th, 1778, but can find no copy. 1779 Jan 14th I wrote to do. but have no copy. “1779 Feb. 16th. I reed, a letter from Mr. Warner but can’t find it. “1779 March 2d. I wrote to Mr. Warner, but can find no copy. Then follows letters & copies. “N.B. For some time after I attended Congress first I kept no copies of my letters except public letters. I therefore conclude, that I paid Mr. Warner for the horse before I kept copies
