236 March 23, 1779 No Letters from Boston Today. No Man not even a Currier is thought to be obliged to behave as formerly when the Money was better. How shall we contrive to burn half of it? If Men will not lend we must emit. Why is there not so much Patriotism as to enable us to declare solemnly that we will not strike a single Bill more? But, that Topic adds a Sickness at my Stomach to the Pain in my Jaw and obliges me to close with a Repetition of much regard. James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). Thomas Nelson to George Washington My Dear General Philada. March 23d 1779. I had the satisfaction of receiving your Letter of the 15th 1 by Colo. Laurens and I would have answer’d it by Colo. Harrison but I had not the pleasure of seeing him (being from home when he call’d on me) till he was about to leave the City. I am happy that my taking a seat again in Congress meets with your approbation; and shall be still more happy, if by my advice or assistance, America shall be relievd from her present distresses; for in my opinion she has not, at any time, since the commencement of this War, been in so much danger as she is now, and principally from the state of our finances, which seem to me to be in strange confusion. What may be the result of the late determination of Congress for calling in the Emissions of April & May 77 & 78 I know not; but the present effect is very contrary from what was expected. Our immediate Country is almost thrown into convul sions by it. I fear it has given a deadly stab to the Credit of any Paper Money that may hereafter be issued by Congress. Let us however profit by experience and endeavor to apply a remedy to the sore, before it make the bone caries. I propose certainly to pay you a visit in the Spring, for believe me when I assure you that I am with the greatest regard & esteem, Your Obedt. Servt & affectionate friend, Thos Nelson Jr. [P.S.] I beg you will present my Compts to Mrs. Washington. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s March 15 letter to Nelson is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:246-47. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Philadelphia 23d March 1779 I have only time at present to acknowledge the receipt of Your favor of the 20th Feby. 1 & must take some future opportunity to consider its con-
