238 March 24, 1779 2 Congress had refused to reimburse Samuel Davis and Ephraim Whitney for their loss of Continental money in a fire. See JCC, 13:299-300; and Whipple to Weare, December 8, 1778, note 1. 3 See John Jay to the States, March 22, 1779. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada. March 24, 1779 The Bearer of this Letter being prevented setting off today by a Storm, I have had Time to transcribe the inclosd Extracts. 1 They were written to me in Confidence, as you will observe. I think I am warranted in commu nicating them to j>ou, because I know the Writer has as much Confidence in your Prudence and Discretion as he has in mine, if not more; and I do not see how I can better use them for the Purpose he intended in sending them to me, than by sending them to you. Those Parts which are descrip tive of the Weakness, or if you think more proper, of the reserved Caution of Age, you will judge it prudent to keep secret for the present. There are some of our Friends, who having been long habituated to admire the Wisdom of the Philosopher, cannot easily be perswaded to believe, that in the different Character of a Politician, he may be lyable to human Frail ties at the Age of more than three Score and ten. Those Parts which may serve to set Dr Lee in his true Character of an honest and diligent Servant of the Publick, you will make Use of for that Purpose; for it is of equal Importance that the Fidelity of one and the Treachery of another in the Service of the Publick, should be made known. A Man of inflexible repub lican Virtue, cannot but incur both the Dread and Hatred of those, who are ambitious—desirous of making Fortunes—artful and enterprizing, especially if much of the publick Treasure has passed, unaccounted for, through their Hands. Mr. Dean would have the World beleive that Dr Lee is a dishonest Man and a Traitor. The writer of these Extracts who has had full Opportunity of enquiring, says, “He is a Man of Integrity and Honor.” “A Worthy Character.” “Invariably attached to the Cause of America.” I am inclind to think, that no honest and sensible Man who is acquainted with both, will hesitate to determine, on which of their opinions to rely, or which of them, in the present Instance, ought to be supposd the impartial Judge. Adieu. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Adams undoubtedly enclosed extracts from John Adams’ December 5, 1778, letter, which he quoted below. For this letter, see also Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams, March 7, 1779, note 7. Thomas Burke to George Washington Sir Philadelphia March 24th 1779 The Governor of South Carolina has pressed the Governor of Virginia for an aid of Cavalry, and the latter has recommended to the Several
