March 25, 1779 243 inlistment Containing the age, and description of the Negro, and the price agreed on between the owner and the said Colonel, or other commanding officer, which Certifi cate properly Indorsed and authenticated Shall intitle the bearer to receive the said price when the same shall be due.) That no pay or bounty be allowed to the said Negroes, 2 but that they be cloathed and subsisted at the Expence of the united States. That every Negro who shall well and faithfully Serve as a Soldier 3 to the End of the present war and return his arms be emancipated, and receive the Sum of dollars. (That it is also Expedient, that it be Recommended to the State of South Carolina to fill up their quota of the Confcederal Troops with Negroes upon the foregoing Terms.) That it be recommended to the States of Virginia and North Carolina 4 to raise as many Battalions of Regular Soldiers as their Circumstances will admit, every Battalion to Consist of the following ranks and denomina tions of Officers, and rank & file. Vzt, That a bounty not exceeding dollars be given to every Non Commissioned officer and Soldier who shall inlist in the said Battal ions. That the time of Service of the said Battalions 5 Shall not exceed one year from the day of next. And that they shall not be compelled to Serve on any Enterprise, or on the defence of any post to the Northward of the State of Virginia. The circumstances of the army will not admit of the detaching of any force therefrom for the defence of South Carolina and Georgia. The Confcederal Battalions of those two States are very feeble in force, and not adequate to their Defence. That the three Battalions of North Carolina Confcederal Troops which are now on that Service are composed of Militia draughted for Nine Months only, which Term with a great part of them will expire before the End of the campaign—with the remainder has commenced the begining of this present month. That all the other force now employed for the defence of the Said States Consists of Militia from them and the Neighboring States who from the remoteness of their Habitations, and the difficulties attending their Ser vice, cannot be relied for Continued Exertions, and a protracted a War. That the State of South Carolina as represented to your Committee by the Delegates of the Said State, and by Coll. Huger who has come hither at the request of the Governor of the Said State on purpose to explain the particular Circumstances thereof is unable to make any Effectual Efforts with her militia by reason of the great proportion of Citizens Necessary to remain at home to prevent Insurrections among the Negroes, and to pre vent the desertion of them to the Enemy. That the State of the Country and the great Numbers of those people among them exposes the Inhabi tants to great danger from the Endeavours of the enemy to excite them either to revolt or desert.
