244 March 25, 1779 That it is Suggested to your Committee by the Delgates of the said State, & by Coll. Huger that a force might be raised in the said State from among the Negroes which would not only be formidable to the Enemy by their Numbers, and the disciplin which they would very readily admit of, but would also lessen the danger to the Inhabitants from revolts, and desertions by detaching the most Enterprising and vigorous Men from amongst the Negroes. That as this measures may involve inconveniences peculiarly affecting the State of South Carolina your Committee are of Opinion that the Same Should be Submitted to the governing Powers of that State, and that if the said Powers Shall Judge it expedient to raise such a force the united States ought to defray the Expence thereof—upon a View of the foregoing Cir cumstances your Committee report. MS (NcU: Burke Papera). In the hand of Thomas Burke. 1 On March 18, 1779, Congress appointed a committee of five—Burke, Henry Laurens, Thomas Nelson, John Armstrong, and Eliphalet Dyer—“to take into consideration the cir cumstances of the southern states, and the ways and means for their security and defence,” at the behest of South Carolina and its emissary Isaac Huger. The motion to appoint the committee was offered by Laurens; South Carolina’s role in initiating the recommendation to raise black troops in the southern states is made explicit by Burke in this draft. The committee submitted a report to Congress on March 25, at which time the delegates opened a debate on it that was continued on the 29th. The latter day Congress endorsed the committee’s principal recommendations and adopted a number of resolves for raising black troops in South Carolina and Georgia at Continental expense, securing additional aid for those beleaguered states from North Carolina and Virginia and retaliating against residents of the Bahama Islands, from which privateers had recently been operating along the Caro lina coast. JCC, 13:336, 374, 385-88. In addition to this draft by Burke, two other key documents on this subject have survived: a draft committee report by Henry Laurens, and the committee’s final report (in Burke’s hand), upon which Congress’ resolves of the 29th were based. See Henry Laurens’ Draft Committee Report, this date; and PCC, item 20, 2:365-71. No clear evolution between these three texts has been discerned, however, and the relative contributions of Burke and Laurens to the committee’s final recommendations can only be conjectured. For delegate comments on the proposal to raise black troops, see William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, March 28, postscript; John Collins to William Greene, March 30; and John Armstrong to Horatio Gates, April 3, 1779. For other aspects of this committee’s work, see Thomas Burke to George Washington, March 24, 1779. 2 “Agreed” written in the margin at this point. 3 “Agd” in the margin. 4 “Agd” in the margin. 5 “Agd” in the margin, and repeated adjacent to the next eight paragraphs. John Fell’s Diary Thursday March 25th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Debates ab’t the Clothier General’s department, Postponed till tomorrow. 1 A Report from the Delegates of So Carolina & Georgia, for Raising Battalions of Negroes to be Offic- erd by White Men and appointed by the Authority of the State, to be
