March 25, 1779 247 that State offered very high Bounties for recruits but with no favorable prospect of success. That a Body of permanent Troops are absolutely necessary for the defence of So Carolina & recovery of Georgia. That continuing the Militia or Yeomanry of So Carolina in the field for any considerable time will be attended with fatal consequences in the approaching Season, from Sickness, death, neglect of husbandry & me chanical employments & by affording temptation to Negro Slaves to rise in Rebellion or at least to desert to & strengthen the hands of the Enemy— from these considerations Your Committee beg leave to recommend to the House, to Repeat their former applications to the Governments of Virginia & North Carolina for sending all possible aid & succor to the States of So Carolina & Georgia & particulary to require that the Resolution of be carried into effect. Resolved 3 That it be recommended to the Governments of So Carolina & Georgia to consider of the necessity & utility of arming able bodied Negroes either for filling up the Continental Battalions of those States or for forming seperate Corps to be commanded by White Officers commissioned & non commissioned 4 to be appointed by the Legislature or executive authority of the said States, or for both purposes Resolved that Congress will make provision for paying the proprietors of such Negroes as shall be inlisted for the Public service during the War at a Rate not Exceeding Dollars for each active able bodied Negro Man so enlisted, 5 of Standard Size and not exceeding (forty} thirty five years of age. And Whereas it is Represented to Congress that The Bahama Islands are now Garrisoned by & under Military Goverment of the K of G B, & the Inhabitants of those Islands have of late fitted out many Privateers & armed Vessels for cruizing on the coasts of these States & that such Priva teers & armed Vessels 6 have actually made prize of divers Vessels on the Coast of So Carolina, Resolved that the Resolve of Congress of so far as it respects the said Bahama Islands be from & after the date of this Resolution 7 held be void & repealed to all intents & purposes. (Resolved that the Inhabitants of the Bahama Islands be & they are hereby declared to be in Enmity to these States & the said Inhabitants & their property Liable to seizure & condemnation as other subjects of the King of Great Britain are.) 8 MS (Nc-Ar: Secretary of State Papers). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 For the background of this draft report, see Thomas Burke’s Draft Committee Report, this date, note 1. 2 A reference to Congress’ resolve of February 2 requesting North Carolina and Virginia “to afford all possible aid to South Carolina and Georgia, of men, arms, and other necessary articles.” JCC, 13:132.
