March 26, 1779 249 Morris that a Committee be appointed agreeable to the Request, Mr Smith moved as an amendmant the Committee of Council be struck out. Long debates 5 Ys, Ns 5. There ensue’d a long debate on order till Ad- journd, an unhappy dispute, Occasiond intirely by means of Major Gen eral Arnold. 6PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). Samuel Holten’s Diary [March 26, 1779] 26. Friday. Mr. Gorham, Mr. Wales & Mr. Inches, a committee from the Genl. Court of Massa.-Bay arrived here. 1 Ms (MDaAr). 1 This committee had been sent by the Massachusetts General Court to Philadelphia to reinforce the state’s request for permission to import flour from the southern states. Congress had, however, on February 26 already acted on the state’s request by recommending to the southern states that they allow such imports, exempting Massachusetts and Rhode Island from the embargo on grain and flour. JCC, 13:257. See also Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, March 1, note 2, and April 1, 1779. Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates 26 March 1779. 1 G.M. 2 “By their publication they have directly & positively appealed to the Public & stand as the accusers of Congress to their Constituents, therefore (assigning many reasons') we cannot consistently with the honor & dignity of this Congress nor consistently with the regard we owe to our Constituents confer with the State of Pennsylvania, before they shall have made reparation” &c &c. O^in a second Speech—he compared the Power of the Executive Coun cil with the Power of other States—“it was inferior to that N. York—& believed it was inferior to the Powers of many other States—he had known some Corporations of less Limitted powers.” Query, what are the States, but, so many self Created Corporations. General Armstrong & Mr. M’Lean displayed the constitution & powers of the Executive Council. G.M. after comparing powers as above—“I ask, if the Governor of this State had published such charges against Congress, would you confer with him, before you had vindicated your honor to the World & received some satisfaction—I trust not. I think I may answer for every Member present, there is not I am persuaded, a single Gentleman on this floor, who would venture to give his voice for descending so far below the dignity of this
