250 March 26, 1779 House.” “I don’t know what the publication is, I have heard of it but I have not seen it.” Mr. Lovell reminded him of S. Deane’s publication of the 5th Decem ber & the conduct of Congress thereon. G.M. replied—“The Cases were not similar (or parrallel), but granted, a thousand wrongs don’t make one right, if we did wrong in the Instance let us take care to avoid doing wrong again.” M.S. 3 “If I have been abused & traduced & held out in Print to the Public, shall I as an individual submit to a conference with the Man or any set of Men who have used me in that manner—No Sir! I don’t know the powers of Congress whether it extends to expulsion, but I will sooner be expelled & turned out of that door, than submit to give my voice in favor of so disgraceful a measure (or conduct). No Sir, Let us publish & vindicate our conduct first, to the World, before we talk of conference.” J.P. 4 Would any Gentleman in private life, after he had been abused by another Gentleman, enter into a conference before he had received satis faction. No! I am sure I would not, I don’t know what other Gentlemen’s feelings may be, I speak for myself. I can’t answer it to my state, consis tently with the honor & dignity of those who I have the honor to repre sent. G.M. I think, I am sure that publication, ought to be taken under consideration of a Committee & narrowly scaned, before we talk of confer ences. There are such things as preliminaries to treaties, which are necessary to be established before the Treaty is entered upon. If we have done wrong let us acknowledge it before we confer, if we have been wronged let us not confer before we receive satisfaction. I have no Idea of compromising quarrels. I am for following Shakespear’s advice, “beware of entrance to a quarrel; but being in, bear’t that the opposer may beware of thee.” 5 W.H.D. 6 —supported these doctrines, & voted accordingly, talked of the duty of every Man to know & to feel his own dignity. 7 MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Henry Laurens, and endorsed by him: “Speeches in Congress, 26th March 1779, against conferring with the Executive Council of Pennsylvania.” 1 This day Congress read a letter of March 25 from a joint committee of the Pennsylvania Assembly and Executive Council requesting “a free conference with a committee of Congress upon divers transactions of that honorable body, which may have a tendency to interrupt the harmony and confidence so necessary for the common interest of this and the United States.” JCC, 13:374. The request immediately encountered opposition, and a motion was offered by Gouverneur Morris to refer the letter to a committee, apparently to avoid taking direct action upon it. The speeches recorded in these notes by Laurens were doubtless made during debate on Morris’ motion, which was lost when the states divided equally, although Congress resumed consideration of the issue on the 29th and appointed a committee of five to confer with the Pennsylvania authorities. The requested meeting was actually held the evening of March 30, and William Paca, the committee’s chairman, reported the results of it to Congress on April 1. Two days later Congress adopted a series of resolves designed to restore harmony and bring the crisis with the state to a close. See JCC, 13:374-78, 389-90, 409, 412-17; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:730.
