March 27, 1779 255 an Order from the Commissary at this upon the Deputy Commissarys in Maryland for the same quantity and for the same purpose least any difi- cultys should happen. We request you will immediately order the Schoo ner to take in the flour and Iron remaining at Senepuxent and proceed round to Chesapeake Bay to compleat her Cargo. We would prefer lading her with the most Southern flour, but we wish you to pursue that plan which in your judgement will be productive of the most despatch. We shall pay your drafts for any advances you make or will remit you money just as you may find convenient. We are Sir, Your hble servants 1 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Another item of Marine Committee business was transacted this day by its secretary John Brown, who sent the following brief note to William West (1724-1808), a Philadelphia businessman, who was apparently the owner of the building rented by the committee for its quarters. “I am favoured with your letter of the 20th instant,” Brown wrote, “which has been laid before the Marine Committee who have ordered me to inform you that they dealing not in hard money, would be glad to know how much Continental Money you will take for the Rent of your Bank House after the present Contract is expired.” PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 212. John Fell’s Diary Saturday March 27th. 1779. 1 Commercial Committee. Congress. Letter from Major Genl. Arnold requesting the Report of the Committee to be taken up, on which the Report was Read, and the Papers, Letters &c that Passed between the Committee and the Execitive Council after which a Motion was made that Genl Arnolds affair be Postponed, and the Motion of Yesterday taken in to consideration for a Committee to meet a Committee of the Assembly and a Committee of the Execetive Council in Conferrance, Ys & Ns Carrd in the Affirmitive, then M Smith moved after a long Speech, that the Chair be requested to call on Each Member to know if they have Receiv’d any intelegence from any foreign Court, in Europe and Particularly from England Ys & Ns carrd in the Affirmitive, All No. 2 Mr Lovell moved for Mr Aken to Print the Journals, debate about the Propriety of Printing the Yas & Nas & the Ys & Ns calld for on the Question carrd in the Affirma. I was No. I think they are very often Ridicolous. MS (DLC). 1 This day Connecticut delegate Joseph Spencer took his seat in Congress pursuant to his appointment by the state assembly “in the room of Andrew Adams, Esqr, resigned.” He apparently continued in regular attendance until September 17, 1779, when his name last appears in the journals on a roll call vote. See JCC, 13:378, 15:1081-82. His claim for “my service attending the Conti. Congress from March 15th to Septemr. 28th, 1779, both inclu sive, 198 days at 18s per day—£178.4,” clearly includes his travel time to and from Philadel-
