March 28, 1779 257 William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir No 11 Philadelphia 28th March 1779 Some days ago I hastily acknowledged the receipt of Your favor of the 20th Ulto. 1 I am fully of Your opinion, & was at the time that the Good effects of calling in the two Emissions will be in a great Measure Marred by Exchanging them, but you know the best Political systems are often destroyed by one stroke of bad Policy. I believe I sent you some time ago News papers containing the Laws you mention respecting the Estates of Refagees (as you call them). (You’ll pardon the criticism, but I never liked the word as applid to those People nor can I like the Epithet used by the Massachusetts assembly viz Absen tees. Those people have either fled from justice or deserted the Cause of their Country & therefore I think are more properly to be called Fugitives or by some other epithet more descriptive of their true Charecters.) You say you have not the vanity to think N.H. the fitest State to take the lead in this business; I will not pretend to say, who ought to take the lead, but every State should judge of their own circumstances, and pass such Laws as the scituation of their affairs require. Great dangers may arrise from placing too great confidence in men who are not Heartily attached to the Independence of America. Such charec ters shod be watched with the most jealous Eye, but there are another set of people that we are to apprehend great danger from; I mean those who entertain principles repugnant to Republicanism; such undoubtedly there are in every part of the World & it will be happy for N.H. if such charec ters do not insinuate themselves into Your councils & by their baleful influence weaken the foundation of that noble fabric (which I suppose you are about to erect) & render it unworthy the acceptence of the Goddess to whom it ought to be dedicated. That Heaven may guard my Country against the influence of such false Patriots is the most fervent wish of Your very affecte Friend and Most Humle Sert. WW 29th. Your favor of the 27 th Feby is just come to hand. The Report of the dispatches with proposals of peace &c is without the least foundation, this is only a Tory Tale calculated to put people off their guard & slaken their exertions in the insuing Campaign. 2 I believe I informed you in some of my former letters that the last accots from Europe Breathed nothing but War. Tho’ I do not believe they would persue the plan were it not for the unhappy scituation of our Currency & the Flattering accots they have had of our dissentions, these circumstances have encouraged them to try an other Campaign; but I hope notwithstanding the many difficulties we have to encouter we have still virtue enough left to withstand their utmost efforts. Indeed I have not a doubt but we shall succeed but still every exertion is necessary to recruit, & put the Army on a respectable footing. Mr. Frost intends to leave me in about a fortnight. I wish to know who is to take [h]is place, also when I may expect to be releived. My anxiety,
