258 March 28, 1779 for the determination of some important matters will induce me to tarry as long as my constitution will bear this Climate, but I do not think it possible for me to tarry longer than May. The last accots from S. Carolina were favorable. A recommendation is gone thither for raising some regiments of Blacks, 3 this will I suppose lay a foundation for the emancipation of those poor wreches in that Country, & I hope be the means of dispensing the Blessings of freedom to all the Human Race in America. Adieu, Yours &c, WW RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See Whipple to Bartlett, March 23, 1779. 2 Bartlett’s February 27 letter to Whipple is in the Peter Force Collection, DLC, and Josiah Bartlett Papers, microfilm, NhHi. Bartlett had written: “Report here says, that the Mifflin, privateer that arrived at Boston some time since from France, had brought some important dispatches for Congress, containing proposals of peace and such as could not be rejected by Congress. I heartily wish it may be true as I am tired of the war but doubt the truth of the report.” 3 See Thomas Burke’s Draft Committee Report, March 25? 1779, note 1. Committee on Appeals Decree March 29th. 1779. Jonathan Tredwell &c I Appeal from Lib[ellan]ts & App[ellan]ts 2 the State of vs Aaron Lopez &c. App[ell]ees J Rhode Island 1 We the Commissioners appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States having heard and fully considered as well all and singu lar the Matters and Things set forth in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court aforesaid in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective Parties in the above Appeal Do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of Jonathan Tredwell &c entered in the above Cause be dismissed with Costs And that the Judgment or Sen tence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid pronounced and published in the said Cause be in all its parts confirmed and established And we do adjudge and order that Jonathan Tredwell & the Appellants pay unto Aaron Lopez &c. the Appellee in the above Cause two hundred and eighty Dollars for his Costs and Charges by him expended in supporting and sustaining the Sentence of the said Court of Admiralty against the said Appeal &c. Wm Hy. Drayton Wm. Paca John Henry William Ellery MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 37). In a clerical hand, and signed by Drayton, Ellery, Henry, and Paca. 1 The Rhode Island Admiralty Court had ordered the schooner Hawke and cargo returned to its owner, Aaron Lopez, a Newport merchant. The Hawke had been captured by Capt. Jonathan Tredwell while sailing north from Jamaica to an undisclosed destination. Tredwell
