March 29, 1779 259 appealed the case to Congress, which referred it to the Committee on Appeals on October 26, 1778. As the committee in this decree “confirmed” the judgment of the Rhode Island court, Tredwell’s appeal was dismissed and the appellants were ordered to pay Lopez’s costs in supporting his cause during appeal. SeeJCC, 12:1064; case file no. 37, RG 267, DNA; and Stanley F. Chyet, Lopez of Newport; Colonial American Merchant Prince (Detroit: Wayne State University Press, 1970), pp. 164-70. For a companion case involving Lopez, see Committee on Appeals Decree, April 10, 1779. James Duane to Mary Duane Philad 29th March 1779 I am Just, my dearest Polly, returnd from a Visit to our Brother & his Lady 1 who enjoin me whenever I wrote to present their affectionate Re gards to you & our Daughter. Our friendly Sister often repeats the Satis faction she expects to find in the Society of a Relation who she says has a first place in her Husbands Heart. On my part I really expect it will contribute to our Social Happiness: our Brother whom I so lately thought in a declining Way is free from Complaint and gathers Health and Spirit daily: the Anxiety, which too much oppressed him, for his Jamaica Estate has subsided, & he enjoys the greatest Tranquillity of Mind. When I visit them we ride out as much as the Time will admit—and I find the Benefit of it myself. I do not know when I enjoyd better Health for which I cannot be sufficiently grateful to the Almighty. May he graciously dispense the same Blessing to you, our dearest Children & Friends! Make my Duty, Compliments & Blessing Acceptable to them all in their respective Rela tions. I shall write to you again soon And in the Meantime, beg you will believe me to be with all possible affection—My dearest Polly, your faith ful Husband, Jas Duane [RS.] The enclosd is from Bror. Robert. Be pleasd to deliver it. I am not in the way of news papers: but will [solicit?] & forward some the next Conveyance. RG (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 Robert Cambridge Livingston and Alice Swift Livingston. John Fell’s Diary Monday March 29th. 1779. Coml. Committee. Congress. Motion for taking into consideration the Raising Negroes Troops in So Carolina & Georgia. Repeal of the Resolve relating to the Bahama Islands. Motion for appointing the Committee of Conferrence, with the Execi- tive Council & Assembly of Pennsilvania, A Motion Per M Smith of a
