264 March 30, 1779 2 The Rhode Island delegates continued throughout the year to press Congress for com pensation for the state’s black soldiers but without conclusive results. See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, April 13, June 29, and September 28, 1779. William Ellery to John Sullivan Dear Sir Philadelphia March 30th. 1779. I received your letter of the 28th February last with Genl. Prescott’s certificate. I am satisfied, from the wording of it, that neither Crossing nor Corey were, properly speaking, commissioned-officers of the Crown of Great-Britain at the time they were employed in the maroding, kidnap ping Business for which they have been sentenced to die by the judgment of a Court martial. 1 The Question with me is not what kind of powers those powers were, which they received, and were lodged in the possession of Genl. Prescot; nor why they were so lodged; nor how they have been always consider’d. The plain Question is whether they are commissioned Officers of the Crown of Great Britain in the same sense and to every intent purpose as other British Captains & Lieuts are? As I have already said I am satisfied they are not. I imagin their future commissions de pended upon circumstances which had not taken place at the time they undertook their expedition. I do not mean to argue on this subject. They have escaped, and I imagin will neither be retaken or returned. Suppose the Sentence of the Court martial should be confirmed! Do you think General Prescott will deliver them up to be executed? I should think not. If they have got to the Island they will abide there, at least until the determination of Congress shall be known; and when this will be I know not, for great & important matters are now on the tapis. I read that part of your former letter which respected money matters to some of the members of the Treasury board, who told me that not long before a considerable Sum had been transmitted to the Paymaster. 2 I made out an extract from the letter I am now answering and deliver’d it to the Treasury board, which produced Money sufficient I hope to answer the present exigencies of the detachment, two or three days before the arrival of the Paymaster. I believe it would be well hereafter that He should write to the Treasury board, at the same time you write to them and point out the Sum wanted and for what purposes. I shall always with great cheerfulness execute your requests. You forgot, Sir, to make the inquiry after Francis Brindley I desired you to make; 3 or, if made, to communicate the result of it. I have since been informed by the Chaplain to Glover’s Brigade that he was married to the Widow Lawton, who acts as a Matron to the Hospital, by Mr. President Manning. If this should be true I would be much obliged to you if you would procure a certificate thereof and transmit it to me, that I may hand it to Brindley’s wife who is a worthy woman.
