March 31, 1779 267 be required because it had received reports that “considerable Quantities of Wheat” had already been collected at mills in Harford and Cecil counties and that there were “large quantities of Flour” at the Head of Elk. Board of Treasury to John Sullivan Sir Philadelphia 31st March 1779 No application has been made to the Treasury nor to our knowledge to Congress for Money to pay the Army under your command untill the honorable Mr. Ellery presented us with an Extract from your Letter to Him. 1 In that Extract no Sum was specified: As it came to hand at a time when from a multitude of Drafts the Treasury was exhausted: This Board however did all in their Power to releive your Necessities by procuring an estimate of your wants from the Board of War and reporting a warrant for 600,000 dollars to be transmitted by that Board, which will we presume, be done in a little time, as every possible exertion is making for supplying the Army. We have the honor to be with great respect, Sir, Your Most Obedient, Humble Serts Jas. Duane Ch. In the Name of the Board of Treasury P.S. The Information from Mr Ellery was received by us the 19th Instant, an immediate application was made to the Board of War for an estimate of your wants, on the 22d we reported to Congress & on the 24th a Warrant Issued on the Treasurer for the sum above mentioned. 2 RC (NHi: Horatio Gates Papers). Written by William Carmichael and signed by James Duane. 1 See William Ellery to John Sullivan, March 30, 1779. 2 See the first letter of John Jay to Washington, March 24, 1779, note 3. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday March 31st. 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. A Letter from Thos Payne Read. 1 A do from Govr Trumbull, to setle his Brothers Accts. 2 Committee on Commissary Trumbulls Accts Reported, that his Estate be Allow’d as follows to wit V2 Per Ct on all the Moneys laid Out, Yas & Nas Carrd Affirmitive 2’/2 Per Ct. on all Purchases made by himself, do do ‘/2 Per Ct. on all the Money lay’d out, do even, Lost— not finish’d. Motion made per Mr Smith that Mr be appointed Printer for the Public and that the Journals be Printed in Sheets and sent to the Legislatures of the different States. Dr Wetherspoon. 3
