276 April 2, 1779 for what are essentially necessary, have already exhausted & distressed her exceedingly. We hope that you will concur with us in opinion that our Militia may return home as soon as may be, & that no more Battalions should be raised in our State for the purpose of being sent thither. We were not surprized on this occasion to see the New England States vote for the proposition above mentioned. The object is to them peculiarly important, their Country from its situation & strength is secured in a great measure from the danger of ravages to which the Southern States from contrary circumstances are exposed, and nothing but a conviction of our being unable to carry on the War without the assistance of our Allies, who by their engagements are not bound to assist us in obtaining it, could induce us to decline it. But we were much surprized to see Pennsylvania & Delaware Vote for it, who of all the States are most injured by the War, & are as little as any Interested in Fisheries, the Improved state of Agricul ture & the more flourishing circumstances of those States have made them the objects more immediately of military operations. Their commerce, which in Peace is exceedingly flourishing is entirely ruined by the War, their Husbandmen are harrassed with military services, their agriculture much decayed & their frontiers wasted or deserted. The necessaries of life at the most enormous prices, & a considerable part of their Country deso late & in ruins, yet those States thus circumstanced vote for the continuing the War, without Men, Money, Arms, clothing or Provisions! This must be infatuation or something worse. Tis time, Sir, for every State not thus extravagant to reserve her exertions, for her own particular defence. We thought it our duty to give Your Excellency the above information, relying on your good sense that you will make such a use of this Letter as its importance deserve. 4 We have the honor to be with the greatest Re spect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. humble Servts. John Penn Whitmell Hill Thos. Burke Tr (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 31). In the hand of Henry Laurens. Endorsed by James Lovell: “A true Copy carefully compared & examined with the Original, which I believe to be in the handwriting of one of the Signers John Penn.” 1 Numeral added by Laurens. This document is one of nine, dated from April 2 to 8, preserved by Laurens and pertaining to his dispute with the North Carolina delegates over his support of American claims to the northern fisheries. 2 The evidence for this date is found in the following endorsement that Laurens appended to his transcript of the document. This endorsement refers to both this and the following entry, which Laurens copied at the same time: “Neither of these Letters dated—they were brought from the President’s House by one of his servants, to mine. Friday 2d April 1779. I informed Mr. Penn & also Mr. Burke I would consider & answer them on Monday the 5th or sooner if possible. Answered the 4th having in the meantime been fully employed in Congress & in Committees.” 3 For Congress’ March 29 resolutions requesting additional aid for the beleaguered states of South Carolina and Georgia, see Thomas Burke’s Draft Committee Report, March 25, 1779, note 1.
