April 2, 1779 277 4 This letter was apparently never sent to Caswell. That it was composed simply to deter Laurens from insisting on making a claim to the fisheries a prerequisite of peace with Great Britain seems clear from the concluding paragraph of the following entry. North Carolina Delegates to the South Carolina Delegates Gentlemen [April 2, 1779] 1 Considering that your State is always deemed so feeble in Internal strength and resources, that her defence when attacked must chiefly be performed by the Neighbouring States, and must fall more Immediately on North Carolina from her circumstances, and contiguous Situation. Considering also that a Question now before Congress Involves the continuance of Hostilities, even tho’ our Liberty, Sovereignty and In dependence, absolute and unlimitted, as well in matters of Government as Commerce shall be acknowledged and secured, unless Great Britain will acknowledge a right of Fishing on all Banks and Coasts of No. America which were exclusively reserved to Britain by the Treaties of Utrecht and Paris, as fully as the Inhabitants of the Countries now composing the United States of North America injoyed when Subject to Great Britain; a right which we deem more Extensive than can with Justice be insisted on, and which our Allies by their engagements are not bound to assist us in Contending for, and which the Minister Plenipotentiary of France assures us his Court can not agree to continue the war for. Considering also that in a late vote upon the Question alluded to, Mr. Laurens one of the Delegates from your State gave his voice for continuing Hostilities for the aforesaid object, even tho’ our Allies should not be in a Condition to assist us from which we Infer, that he relies on a degree of Strength and resources in your State which is unknown to us, or on a mistaken Idea of the strength and resources of North Carolina. This long experience, and intimate knowledge of his own Country induce us readily to admit the former as the ground of his opinion. But we esteem it our Duty to inform you that in case of the continuance of the War for the aforesd. object North Carolina is not in a Condition to make any exertions for the Defence of So. Carolina, nor do we believe she will be inclined to make any. We beg you to consider that in the event of the Continuance of the war your Country will probably experience all the calamities which can be apprehended from an Insolent, Relentless, Iritated, and Rapacious enemy, from your own Slaves armed against their former Masters, from the Savages excited to more bloody and merciless dispositions and con ducted by leaders who have Inclination and Abilties to make their force and ferocity as effectual against you as possible. Upon general matters we would not presume to lay our thoughts thus before you; how inadequate the resources of the Continent are to a con tinuance of war without allies, & what must most probably be the event
