April 3, 1779 279 we suggest not to you, your participation in the publick Councils make it unnecessary and improper; but upon a matter so supremely Interesting and which so peculiarly affects the lives and properties of the States which you & we have the honor to represent, in which may be involved Desola tion To our Countries and the most unbounded Ravages and carnage to their Inhabitants of all ages and sexes, and which may fall with peculiar weight and Injury on the State we represent, upon such a matter we cannot dispence with offering you this official memorial, and we hope you will consider our Expostulation as flowing from the anxious Concern we feel for our Country and that it will have with you its due weight. We inclose a Copy of a letter which we mean to address to the Govr. of our State, we wish the Conduct of your Delegates on this Important affair may supersede the necessity we deem ourselves under of sending it for ward. 2 We have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, Your very obt. Servts. J Penn Whitmell Hill Tho Burke RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). Written by Penn and signed by Penn, Burke, and Hill. Ad dressed: “The Honble Henry Laurens and W. H. Drayton Delegates for South Carolina.” Tr (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 31). In the hand of Henry Laurens and numbered by him “No. 1.” 1 For the date of this letter, see the preceding entry, note 2. 2 See the preceding entry, note 4. John Armstrong, Sr., to Horatio Gates Dear General. Philada. 3d April 1779 Several Weeks have passed since I designed the pleasure of writing you, waiting from day to day, in hopes of aproaching a little nearer some Short System of communicable Politicks, as well as of the intended dispossition of the Army; but must at last content mySelf with a little cruder imperfect detail. Of the late communications from the French Minister to our House, however some circumstantial matters we cannot devulge must remain out of sight, the Substance I think you have aright to know Viz. In the media tion of Spain betwixt the Courts of France & England The Independance of America is by the Court of France made a preliminary, which if not acceded to by Britain, the Spanish Minister has intimated that his Court will not See that of France involved in War without assisting her; 1 hence arises a probability of Peace, inform’d as we also are that Britain has applyed to the Empress of Russia for Troops & repeated that application with proposals as flattering to Russia as they are degrading to Britain, with repeated refusal on the part of Russia. We Expect a Loan in hard money either from Spain or Holland, the City of Amsterdam being much
