280 April 3, 1779 in our favour. The King of the two Cicilies has Opened his Ports to America. France is Called to Mediate betwixt the Emperor & his Prussian Majesty, but insists that Spain be also taken into that mediation. Thus we may Shortly have Some matters of importance to trafnsact] with Spain as we have heretofore had with France and perhaps wth Eng land which require certain preparatives on the part of Congress, and greatly enlarges the Circle of business under the Epithet of Foreign affairs. The great depreciation of Our Money is truly allarming, a Subject [which] must again be immediately taken up. That of the Army has also long called for farther consideration. These three topicks require equal dispatch, yet have their constant interruptions not only from the daily dispatches on One branch or another of the publick busines, but also from the Spurious Sources of Pride, Ambition & intrigue for One purpose or another, whereby annimossitys, divisions & destruction of time must en sue—So that compared to Congress in its present attitude, I call the Army a Bed of ease, a Pillow of Down. General Arnolds affairs with the Civil powers of this State, has lost much of the Publick time, when half a dozen of polite or wise words, or Short plain & candid answer to the Supreme Council (authorized by Congress as they were to ask the questions) wou’d have prevented the whole at first. This disagreeable matter tending to interrupt the necessary harmony betwixt Congress & this important State is I trust chiefly Settled by means of a free conference requested by the Assembly & held betwixt a Committee of Congress & one formed out the assembly & Council of the State, in which for the publicks Sake, the Council generously gave up what they had considered as an insult agst. them, Some Other matters are refered to a Court Martial to be appointed by the Commander in Chief. 2 Mr. Dean is now Urging a final determina tion on his affairs, which I apprehend will prove vexatious. Common Sense if permitted has lately challenged him (Dean) to the Bar of Con gress & that the doors be Open. 3 Open doors will not be allowed, yet perhaps both may be had. Poor Pane, not the most prudent man in the world, is excereted by a number & much out of the books of Congress, yet has most certainly brought various things neither reputable nor Salutary in our affairs, at least to a probable point of view, which otherwise wou’d have remain’d dormant. We must also have a Sudden Struggle on the point of Sending new Commissioners to Europe. Some are for recalling the whole that are there, others not—nor is it improbable that some may wish to be Sent from hence, who will not have the general Sufferage of the House. Congress have passed a resolve to raise & emansipate three thou sand Negroes in S. Carolina & Georgia, pay, feed & Cloath them during the War. The proprietors to have from Congress 1000 dollars for each Negroe—Also to raise more troops in N. Carolina & Virginia for the Southern aid, a Regiment of Horse. I presume Blands or Bailors will also be Sent & if in Service will soon be melted down. The affair of the blacks is optional and Submitted to the Govt, of S. Carolina, it was moved by their own delegates. Young Coll Laurens is appointed the first Lt. Coll of
