April 3, 1779 283 Genl Schuyler for the friendly Indians agreed. An Inspector to be ap pointed for the Batallions of Negroes to be Raisd in South Carolina and Georgia. No. 2 A very impertinent Letter from Thos. Payne stileing himself Historian—orderd to lay on the Table. 3 Committee appointed to conferr with a Committee of the Assembly and a Committee of the Execitive Council of the State of Pennsylvania, Re ported that they had finishd the Conferrance, (Happily) and that they had 4 different charges against Major General Arnold, which the Com mander in Chief is directed to have try’d by a Court Martial vizt. for an abuse in orderding the Shops of this City to be Shut, for sending a Malitia Sargant for a Barber for his Aid, for Employing the Public Waggons for Private use, for. 4 MS (DLC). ' Commissary John Beatty’s March 31 letter to John Jay concerning the case of Lt. Chris topher Hele is in PCC, item 78, 3:305-6. For Hele’s case, see Henry Laurens to Beatty, November 7, 1778, note 1; and John Jay to Hele, February 16, 1779, note 1. 2 For the Board of War’s recommendation on appointing William Galvan “to the Office of Sub Inspector to the Battalion of Negroes proposed to be raised in the Southern States,” see JCC, 13:418. 3 Thomas Paine’s April 3 letter to Congress, in which he had declared his intention “to furnish the United States with a History of the Revolution,” is in PCC, item 55, fols. 47-50. In it he had complained of Congress’ refusal to do him justice and asserted that Congress had no right “to pass Censure without a hearing.” For the background of Paine’s complaint, see John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, January 10, 1779, note. See also Charles Thomson’s Statement, April 23, 1779. 4 Thus in MS. Henry Laurens to William Henry Drayton Dear Sir No. 3. Chesnut Street Philadelphia 3d April 1779 You will find under cover with this—the Letter from the Delegates of North Carolina to the Delegates of South Carolina, and also their Address to Governor Caswell respecting and animadverting my conduct in Con gress. 1 You had some knowledge of these Letters before we read them Yesterday Morning, therefore I request you will honor me with an explicit and candid opinion on the propriety of the measure which North Carolina has adopted on this occasion—if you Sir, approve of their proceeding I shall be glad of a conference with you on the important subjects alluded to. I am open to conviction, and will change my late sentiments, when reasons shall be offered outweighing those which influenced the vote on my part which has given offence to the Representatives of a neighbouring State. As the first mentioned Letter although directed to us jointly, respects only myself, you will be pleased to return it to me when you shall have again perused it—the other Letter you will send or deliver to the Gentle-
