April 4, 1779 289 But admitting, as the Gentlemen allege, that I am in error, admitting that my supposed mal-conduct arises from “Infatuation or something worse” does it follow that one State in our Union should be devoted to carnage, & the Interests of the other twelve essentially injured because South Carolina is so unhappy as to have one of her Delegates wrong- headed or foul hearted? Can we discover no medium? To speak a little freely Sir, in my turn, these Gentlemen of North Carolina appear to be under the government of Passion, I will not say anything worse. Are Men to be driven into measures by sophistry, misrepresentation & menaces? Could I have expected such attempts from Gentlemen whose daily & laudable boasts are, “I am accountable to my own State & will be governed by my own Judgement.” “Fiat Justitia ruat Ccelum.” 3 “I have my own feelings & I am not answerable to any Man or set of Men but to my Self & my Constituents.” &c &c &c &c &c. One moments reflection Sir, I am persuaded will determine your Excel lency’s “good sense” to make “such an use of the Gentlemen’s Letter as the importance of it deserves.” Were I to presume to give an additional hint, it would be to keep in Your Excellency’s own breast a secret which the Gentlemen have obtrusively & unnecessarily thrust into it. It is possible I may have erred in judgement, the Gentlemen in their attempt to correct the supposed error, have committed Acts, which ap pear to me in the glare of heinos Crimes. They have attacked the freedom of debate & suffrage. They have menaced a free Citizen in order to bias his Vote. They have advised the abandonment of an Innocent people to the rage of a powerful & merciless Enemy. They have recommended measures which if adopted will endanger the safety of the United States. And have they not sacrificed their sacred faith & honor to pique & resent ment? But Sir, I will disclose to Your Excellency a secret which I never prom ised to keep, It is a settled Plan & has been for some time past “to hunt me down.” Were there any just cause, unjustifiable means for accomplishing the pious purpose, would not be resorted to. The, “’vantage ground of truth” says Lord Bacon, “is an incomparable pleasure, ’tis an Hill not to be commanded & where the Air is always clear & serene” & beleive me Sir, I do consistently with truth add, that I have seen from thence particularly in late Instances, “The Errors, and wanderings and Mists and Tempests in the Vale below.” All this if my Address arrives alone will be a riddle; If the honorable Gentlemen shall think proper to send forward their Letter to Your Excellency, that will produce explication. I have the honor to be, With the highest Regard & Esteem Sir Your Excellency’s, Most obedient & Most humble Servant. Henry Laurens.
