294 April 4, 1779 forbear to withdraw their aid from a Sister State invaded, for reasons on one side of the question only adduced to them, and because among others it is supposed that as I have given my opinion in favor of a question that appears to me to involve the most essential interest of the U. States, that therefore I have discovered resources in South Carolina which enable her to wage war with her single strength against the power of Great Britain? I am &c. MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 25). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 This document appears to be the draft of a letter intended for the North Carolina delegates from Henry Laurens in response to their letter to him of April 2. But as it is the work of Richard Henry Lee—i.e., numerous deletions and interlined insertions clearly indi cate that this text was actually composed by Lee—one can only conjecture how he came to be involved in Laurens’ correspondence with the North Carolina delegates over the fisheries issue. It is clear from numerous other documents that the two men frequently collaborated on foreign policy issues, particularly those involving Arthur Lee, for the Laurens Papers contain many letters from Arthur Lee to Richard Henry as well as transcripts by Richard Henry of other documents related to the Deane-Lee controversy. And transcripts—in the hand of Laurens’ secretary Moses Young—of five documents (dated April 3 and 4) relating to Laurens’ controversy with the North Carolina delegates at this time are in the Lee Family Papers, ViU. It therefore seems obvious that when Laurens received a letter from the North Carolina delegates threatening to withhold aid from South Carolina because of his support of New England claims to the northern fisheries, he consulted Richard Henry for advice in preparing a response. Interestingly enough, Lee’s draft is much more detailed than Laurens’ reply and rehearses a number of issues ignored by the latter in the letter he actually returned to the North Carolina delegates, for which see the preceding entry. 2 See North Carolina Delegates to Henry Laurens, April 2, 1779. s JCC, 13:62-63. 4 See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:40; and PCC, item 94, fols. 109-10. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee {Congress 1 } April 4, 1779. The {governor} of {Virgin}ia {inform}s us that {Ford} your {secre tary} 2 is a {bad man}. Such are the {opinion}s entertained of {Ford} in that {state} that it is by no means {proper} he should {continue with} you any longer. He is said to be an artful man, that he has imposed on many where he was not unknown, and therefore it is not to be wondered that he has succeeded where he was a Stranger and where there were no means of discovering him, and as he has documents with him of former services which might naturally lead to an opinion that he was a {good man}. {Richard Henry Lee}. RC (MH-H: Lee Papers). 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Lee in cipher. 2 The cipher here is 230bXIII, which would indicate a word beginning with the letters “lo.” Since 330bXIII translates as a word starting with “se” and Richard Henry is clearly
