April 5, 1779 299 that the Express will be upon me. I will only be short; Yr. Favors are come to Hand by Doctr. Brown. I doubt whether any great Matter will come from their Contents being read in Congress. 2 They are referred to the Board of War. They will Serve, as The Lords’ Protests, to show yr. Sentiments. We have done our best Endeavours except in the Matter of Fortifications at Boston. I do not think you could possibly intend that I should deliver your Letter to Count D Estaing open, to Mr. G d 3 and I have Reasons for not doing it, open or shut. Your Sentiments about Nova Scotia touch my Heart and will make me industrious to forward them. This very Matter, if known would prevent some others from giving them any Expedition. 4 I will not write to you in Figures. 5 There are Men, here, in too great Plenty who, think a stark naked Acknowledgemt. of the 13 United States under territorial Limits which Britain will not dispute is all that we are warranted to demand and all that our Allies will support us in the Claim of. Two European Powers have fancied that they could claim the Fishery of the Banks & Gulphs of America not only against their european Nations but agst. all weaker People even bordering on these Sease. A private Party pretend to know possitively that Gr Br. will not be thought to set up a strange Claim if she persists to demand all that she has not given to France. I mean all eastward of the Bounds of Massachusetts. He therefore that says we ought to demand and fight for the same Rights of Fishery as we have always had, is the willfull murderer of thousands, because Allies will not, support us beyond the professed End of the Treaty. To be sure every Thing looks on our Part like Unpreparedness for even Defence. But if we may not demand what the Deity intended for us we will not formally or impliedly relinquish it. We must at least declare that we mean not by any Words or Treaties be supposed to foreclose future Claims of our Right to catch Fish in all open Seas if we cannot cure them but on our own Lands. I cannot read over what I have written, but will say more on this head in some more composed minute. I shall be unpardonable, however, if I do not add a few Words on a private Topic. Mrs. L 6 expresses the highest Regard for you & your Lady and wishes me to say how much She is grieved that she is not able to show it in what is now a days called taking Notice of Strangers. Poor Woman! I pity her Feelings, if she was only as Republican in Sentiment as she is truly Generous in Heart she would be freed from much of her Regret on this Occasion by barely considering that her present Incapacity to behave in her old Line of Politeness springs from my strict Attachment to a most glorious Cause. Her Uneasiness would vanish. Call on her often hereafter when her Cellar will abound in french & Spanish Wines, or what is better good American Cyder. Drink Water with her now in Love. J L
