April 6, 1779 301 differs widely from what he delivered Orally as before mentiond. This narrative, which is very lengthey, I intend to procure a copy of, I shall also (when I leave this place) take some other papers with me, which places Mr Ds Charecter in a true point of light. I shall trouble you no more on this subject, unless any new matter shod appear in print which may need explanation in that case shall give you such satisfaction as the case may require. I know of no Opportunity at present for Europe from this place but its not improbable there may be, being under no such restraints as you men tion I shall with pleasure forward Mr. S s 2 letters to his Friend in Europe Tho’ it may be necessary that I shod have it in my power to Vouch for the contents of any such letters. Please to present my Respects to Mr. S. & tender him my best services in that or any other way in my power. I am, Your very affect Bror, WW RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers). 1 That is, Silas Deane. 2 Whipple may have been referring to Jacob Sheafe, a merchant in Portsmouth, N. H. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday April 6th [1779]. Commercial Committee. Congress. Mr Rutgars and Mr Horton ap pointed Deputy Muster Masters. Mr McPherson nominated. 1 Order of the Day. Long Debate about Mr Deane and the Commissioners abroad, on the Report of the Committee on foreign Affairs. 2 PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 Fell’s entry is misleading, for the nomination of William MacPherson mentioned here was merely a recommendation of the Board of War. Congress postponed action on the board’s report at this time, and it seems clear from MacPherson’s memorial to Congress of September 16, 1779, that no action had been taken on the recommendation. See JCC, 13:425-26; and PCC, item 41, 6:145-48. 2 This “Long Debate” marked the opening round of a protracted controversy sparked by the report of the foreign affairs inquiry committee (the “committee of thirteen” appointed on January 20), which had been submitted nearly two weeks earlier on March 24. For the origins of this committee, see Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes, January 21, 1779, note 1. The committee’s report consisted of ten articles that named the commissioners as signed to Paris, Madrid, Vienna, Berlin, and Tuscany and stated that because “suspicions and animosities have arisen among the (late and present) Commissioners (viz. Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane, Arthur Lee, Ralf Izard, and Wm Lee) highly prejudicial to the honor and interest of these United States, . . . the appointments of the said Commissioners be vacated, and that new appointments be made.” Ilie report also stated that ministers pleni potentiary were necessary only in Paris and Madrid and that only one commissioner need reside at these missions. For the committee’s report and the list of charges and evidence presented against the commissioners, see JCC, 13:363-68.
