April 6, 1779 305 It may possibly have reached our State that this State nicely jealous of their honour, had conceived that they were not treated with the same respect & justice as had been shown by congress to others. There have been such suspicions; but they are happily removed. Union and Harmony are the great supports of our Independency. We have not received the copy of one act since we have been here passed by our State in pursuance of recommendations of Congress; nor of any other acts saving one respecting a supply of Provisions and one rela tive our Quota of the tax. We should be glad to know what passes in government. We are frequently under embarrassment for the want of such knowledge. We are this moment informed that the French minister hath reed, ad vice that Count De Estaing is reinforced and now hath one more ship than Byron, and that the French have retaken St. Martins and another small island, have also retaken a frigate and taken the Liverpool. We have postponed writing until the post was ready to go out, write in Congress and therefore hope that our Errors & Inaccuracies will be can didly forgiven. We are with the highest Sentiments of Respect, Yr Excel lency’s, most obedient, hble Servants, William Ellery John Collins RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 See Rhode Island Delegates to Greene, March 16, 1779. 2 Washington’s April 2 letter to President Jay, for which see John Jay to Washington, April 7, 1779, note 1. 3 Lt. Col. Zebulon Butler’s March 23-28 letter to the Board of War is in PCC, item 78, 3:301-4. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Philadelphia 6th Api 1779 Inclosed is several resolutions of Congress respecting particular depart ments of the Army, they may have been transmitted officially but lest that should not be the case, I shall in future see it done. Please to inform me of all that has been transmitted since the Commensment of the present Year either printed or in maniscript; you need only mention the dates. I have no news to give you, there are flying reports, but as such are not to be relied on they are not worth relating; we have had no intelligence from the Southward this 6 weeks nor from Europe since the begining of Deer. Mr. Frost talks of leaving me next week; 1 I have not had the least intimation who is to take his place. 2 Firmness & Intrepedity were never more necessary than at the present day, I therefore hope no one will be sent here who are not fully possessed of these Qualities. I shall endeavour
