310 April 8, 1779 influence of this sentiment I scribbled over my answer of the present date; if the Gentlemen enjoy feelings similar to my own, the affair will not come before Congress. I had every advantage over them that could have been wished for by a vindictive mind, & have disdained to insult Men who have surrendered. I long to be relieved from a duty which is now become a burthen, & in the honest prosecution of which I am in danger of being betrayed & sacrificed by a Man who ought to love & support me—send forward that relief I earnestly entreat you. Quarrels cannot last long where there are not faults on both sides. I have pursued such steps, suppressed resentments which might have been justified, & so far guarded against a quarrel—but th[ey] cannot command harmony, without which Colleagues cannot pro ceed in public business to good effect. I have heard nothing of importance from the Army since you left me— the business which employs me daily seven or eight hours or more at the State House & here is of a secret nature. Therefore I have no News to offer but such as may appear in the printed Papers which I send to Colonel Gervais & to which I refer you. Forty four days have passed since we had any intelligence from Charles Town I suspect the miscarriage of a Messen ger. I intreat you let me hear from you by every opportunity. I pray God to bless & protect you, Henry Laurens. P.S. 11th. Since writing as above No. Carolina has been silent, & what is more extraordinary my Colleague has called upon me to confer on busi ness of our Constituents, he met a cordial reception & a frank communi cation of sentiments on my part. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 A reference to the letters Laurens exchanged with the governor and the delegates of North Carolina on April 4 and 8, 1779. 2 That is, William Henry Drayton. Henry Laurens to the North Carolina Delegates Gentlemen, (No. 9) Chesnut Street Philadelphia 8th April 1779 The explanations contained in your Letter of this Morning 1 afford me the satisfaction of feeling myself once more a free Agent. I have, in the course of a two Years acquaintance given you repeated proofs of my abhorrence of that temper which leads some Men to take unfair advan tages of the rashness or inadvertency of others. I have the honor of adding another in the present instance, and of assuring you Gentlemen, your confidence in my candor shall not be abused. Be persuaded Gentlemen, my late Vote, you know what I refer to, and to be more minute would be dangerous, because our correspondence may perchance fall into improper hands, was the effect of as deep meditation
