April 9, 1779 317 appearing before the Legislature of a State, nor on the other could that Character derogate from that of the Legislature. I have not the Vanity to suppose my Talents were of any Consideration; nor indeed could they have been so. If great the Electors had a Right to the best they could procure and if small it would have been their Misfortune. Justice, I hope and beleive, was the Object on all Hands. Mr Reid as well as Mr Morris was at once a Lawyer and a Delegate. In the Moment of Friendship and Confidence, I told you that I was employed, You never hinted to me that it would be disagreable to your Countrymen. You assured Mr R. Morris and Mr Biddle in my Presence that those who applied for Seats, and whose Cause I was to advocate, were more strong Partizans of the same Side of the Question than those who now sit, And that they mistaking you to be friendly to that Side had applied for your Patronage and Interest with the Assembly on the Ground of their strong Attachment to the Con stitution. This then was not advocating the Measures of any Party. But the Sentence is well turned and I forget it. The third Ground of Complaint against me is the Letter of Robert Lettis Hooper, 4 on which you say. “Which Letter was publickly shewn by the said Mr. Morris to the Commander in Chief and others but being demanded by the Delegate of Pensilvania as a high Insult to the State was refused upon the Allegation of it’s being a private Letter.” The Opposition between publick and private you will I dare say take Notice of. A private Letter may be publickly shewn without the Fault of the Writer. Nor ought he to be prejudiced by the Imprudence of him to whom the Letter is directed. Let me remind you Sir that upon the Receipt of this Letter I shewed it as containing a Piece of News on the one Part, and a very extraordinary Determination on the other. That you pressed for it in Order to lay it before the Council. That I then told you I did not imagine Mr. Hooper meant by Writing that Letter to publish such Determination. That I did not think it written to me as a Delegate but meerly in my private Capacity. That there was Something dishonorable is using such a Communication to the Prejudice of a Man who might have entrusted it confidentially. And that if he really intended to publish such a Determi nation other Evidence would not be wanting against him. Sir I refused to deliver that Letter, because I think it wrong to turn to a Man’s Disadvan tage private Communications. I entreated you to consider it as such and by no Means to publish the Contents of that Letter, and I believe you know that it was not shewn by me after your Demand of it. I do not take Notice of the Matter as before the Board of War who I am told can fully exculpate themselves, but I must call to your Remembrance that I chear- fully cooperated with you and Doctor Witherspoon in collecting Evidence against this very Mr. Hooper. I have heard, but I do not recollect my Informant for I cannot believe the Fact, that you asserted to the Assembly, that in a Conversation with me, I had not only declared my Intention to procrastinate a Determina tion on General Arnold’s Case but even pointed out the Mode I would
