April 9, 1779 321 Health and Circumstances; and as he had open Letters to New York, I asked for those which were directed to my former Friends there, or were written by any such in Jamaica, intending if it were necessary to aid his Negotiations for Money in this City. He had not his Letters with him but assured me that on these Subjects he was perfectly at Ease. I then as an American expressed my Hopes that he had not been plundered or ill treated by my Countrymen, and my Confidence that, notwithstanding the apparent Ingratitude of their Conduct, at which he seemed much en raged, they would not take from him his wearing Apparel, and such other Things as it had been customary to leave in the Possession of Persons in his Situation. How he came to misinterpret what I said I cannot concieve, but the Fact stands as I have stated it, and no one who knows me, nor indeed any other but a very base and wicked one will beleive me capable of the Infamy of suborning a Witness. Another Insinuation against me no less cruel is, that I support Mr. Deane from interested Motives. If by supporting Mr Deane is meant the just & honorable Support which is due from a Representative of America to a Servant who asks for Justice, I am proud to declare that I have given and will give it, tho I disdain to sell it either for Price or Condition. But if by Support is meant Assistance in Fraud or Guilt I repel the Calumny and I despise the Calumniator. While Mr Deane was a Petitioner to be heard, I maintained his Right to a fair and a candid Hearing, with the Warmth, not of an Advocate but, of an honest Representative whose Duty it was to do Justice to the Public and to Individuals. If he shall appear to be guilty I will condemn and prosecute him and if innocent I shall en deavor to place that Innocence in it’s proper Light. But the Supposition that I forward his Views (if any he has) to future foreign Employment is ridiculous. Mr Deane considered in himself is not the Negotiator I should chuse under his present Circumstaces, tho compared with some now Em ployed and others who wish to be employed he has an infinite Preference. Nor can I, notwithstanding Appearances, perswade myself that you really second the Views of Men who have already attempted to blast your Repu tation, or of a Party whose Enmity you must be fully convinced of what ever may be their present Professions. Neither can I believe that you have such Weakness as to sacrifice the permanent Interests of this State to any momentary Objects which now offer themselves. It is hardly worth mentioning further that as it serves to shew how sedulously some Persons employ themselves to my Prejudice that Enquir ies have been made whether I am not concerned with Mr Deane in Trade. There is Nothing which may not be overdone, and this is among the Number of those Things which must soon recoil upon the Inventors. I am well content that my Conduct be probed to the Bottom, and I trust will then appear to deserve, not the Forgiveness, but the Applause of my Country. I have mentioned above a Publication which you urged me to make, but which hath as I have been informed given you Offence. How this can
