326 April 12, 1779 his general orders of April 21 that he was confirming Steel’s acquittal “of each and every of the charges made against him” and ordered him released from his arrest. Washington Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:423. 5 This day Jay also wrote the following brief letter to paymaster William Palfrey. “You will receive herewith enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress directing a warrant to issue on the Treasury in favor of Coll. Richard Butler for the amount of certain Warrants drawn by General Washington on You.” See PCC, item 14, fol. 86; and JCC, 13:437-38. Henry Laurens’ Notes on the Conduct of William Henry Drayton [April 12? 1779] 1 The inclosed Letter & Papers were brought up to my House on Satur day Morning the 10 April 1779 by the Honble Mr. Drayton in a few minutes after a Letter from Mr Gervais had been sent to me by the Presidt. of Congress. Mr. Drayton & my self perused them & agreed to present them excepting a few parts which we judged improper to be made public to Congress. When Congress were collecting I asked Mr D. who with the President of Congress & my self were standing together & had been conversing of Carolina affairs, from whom he had received the Pa pers, he replied, from the President of the State, I answered the President of the State, that’s extraordinary, then the Express must have come to him. The President of Congress said nothing & we seperated—in the Evening Durst the Express called on me, I asked him if he had been sent to the Presidt. of the State, he answered “No I don’t know the Presidt. of the State, I carrd. all my Letters every one to the Presidt. of Congress here the next Door to you.” Mr. Drayton had kept the Papers in his possessn till Monday Morning, & when he had then delivered them to me in Congress Room I said to him in presence of Colo. F L Lee, Mr. Drayton you told me On Saturday that you had reed these Letters from the Pres ident of the State, Yes says he, I thought so—but you reed them I find from the Presidt. of Congress—yes I find I did but I thought on Saturday they came from the President of the State. I withdrew full of contempt for Men capable of so much meaness & mean quibbling. N.B. The President & myself live under one Roof he sent in the Letter to me from Mr Gervais. The Dispatches to the Delegates he chose to send in to Walnut Street 2 altho I am the eldest & the first Named in the Delegacy from So Carolina. Moreover he heard Mr D. tell me he had received the dispatches from the President of the State & by his silence discovered a consciousness of an unjust & affrontive partiality. 3 MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 22). In the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed by him: “Mr Drayton & Mr President Jay’s tricks.” 1 The episodes described herein by Laurens took place on Saturday, April 10 and Mon day, April 12, 1779. 2 That is, to Drayton’s residence.
