April 13, 1779 331 RG (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 “Doct’r G” is undoubtedly Dr. Joseph Gardner, to whom Lovell had directed Gates in a March 1 letter to obtain the alphabet key to the cipher—i.e., “Figures”—referred to here. 2 Lovell is referring to an enciphered phrase from his March 1 letter to Gates: “Lickspittles of the Plenipo,” i.e. supporters of the French minister Conrad Alexandre Gerard. 3 The French ambassador to the United Provinces had presented a memorial to the States General on December 7 requesting a definitive answer on whether they would adhere to strict neutrality by defending their commerce against English seizures. Contrary to Lovell’s expectations, the States General adopted an evasive answer which left the United Provinces free from direct participation in the war. Friedrich Edler, The Dutch Republic and the American Revolution (1911; reprint ed., New York, AMS Press, 1971), pp. 112-17. 4 For the erroneous report from a ship captain that Dutch warships had convoyed Ameri can vessels from Surinam, an act apparently presumed to be possible only if the Dutch had already declared war, see the following entry. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia April 13th 1779 We have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 11th & 15th of March. 1 Notwithstanding it is so long since they were wrote, yet they did not come to hand until the last evening owing perhaps to the Route of the post being alterd. We shall embrace the first favorable op portunity for laying the requests of the State before Congress, and will hope they will be complied with. Congress have under consideration further measures for the defence of South Carolina. They had recommended to that State to purchase and form two battalions of black men, the purchase money to be paid by the Continent. They have also recommended to the States of Virginia and North-Carolina to inlist a body of militia for the defence of the Southern States, the bounty money to be paid by the continent &c. These examples will be in favour of the application of our State; but the large Sums of money which these bountys, and the bounty for recruiting the quotas of the several States, the purchase money before mentioned, and the neces sary supplies for the main army require will be in our way. 2 However we shall exert our best abilities on this occasion, and if we cannot command Success we will endeavour to deserve it. We are informed that the Captain of a Vessel which arrived here last Saturday from Surrinam advises that his and six other Vessels were con voyed from thence by a dutch Ship of War until they were thought to be out of danger from the enemy; and that the Governor had offer’d them Cannon &c for their defence. All the news we have from So Carolina is in the paper. No foreign news hath lately arrived. We are in great haste but with the highest Sentiments of respect, Yr Excellency’s most obedt. Servts. William Ellery John Collins
