334 April 14, 1779 Mr Dugan, having also informed Us, that the executive Council of Maryland had refused to permit him to export Flower, unless upon the express Application of the executive Council of Massachusetts Bay, We have this Day applied to Congress on the Subject. To remedy the Objec tion, they have passed the Resolution inclosed; 2 notwithstanding which, it may be expedient for the honorable Council to transmit to Mr Dugan such an Application to prevent further Delays. We remain sir with the greatest Respect, your most obedient & very hum. servants, Samuel Adams James Lovell E Gerry. S. Hol ten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Gerry, and signed by Gerry, Adams, Holten, and Lovell. 1 The Massachusetts delegates had written the following note this day to Michael Hillegas: “It is the request of the Delegates of the State of Massachusetts Bay now in this City that you exchange for Mr. Cumberland Dugan Sixty thousand Dollars, and receive the amount thereof of him in Notes issued by the Treasurer of the sd State. And we hereby authorize you to pay the said Notes in discharge of such draughts as shall be made on you by the sd. State for the One Hundred & fifty thousand Dollars for which they have a Warrant on you issued the 5th of this month by order of Congress.” Revolutionary War Letters, M-Ar. 2 See JCC, 13:449; and Massachusetts Delegates to Thomas Johnson, April 16, 1779. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 14th Api 1779 1 Your two favors of the 13th & 20th Ulto came to hand Yesterday. 2 The reports you mention were form’d in this City & I find they lost nothing as they travelled Eastward. That the Spanish Court are well disposed to us, I have no doubt, indeed I am warranted to say that an alliance 3 might have been concluded e’er this if we had done our duty. There are Villains in all societies, & were I to say there are none in you wod charge me with what I mean never to be guilty of; You say you are sick of the war, so am I, but I am much more sick to think that the Glory of America shod be tarnished by the artifice of a few Rascals who are endeavouring to frustrate every measure that is proposed for the real interest of their Coun try. I feel much disposed at this moment to carry my Raillery to a consid erable length, but lest you shod charge me with imprudence I will drop the subject & refer you to Mr. Frost for particulars. I am by all means for doing justice to the Army but at the same time we ought to remember that justice is also due to the Citizens, the Officers ought to consider their seven Years half pay as some compensation, many other things have been, & will be done by Congress, some are now under consideration, I think the proposals you have made are sufficient to satisfy any reasonable beings, and beyond that no Government ought to go. I don’t know why you shod suppose I shod think you Gloomy; Your letters have not that complection. I agree with you that Members of C— ought
