April 15, 1779 337 Mr. Samuel Adams. Perceiving some attachment in them to Mr. A. Lee, and apprehending something like a party respecting him to subsist, and unwilling to say any thing that might be made use of on either side, I answered with caution and reserve, and only said in general that he was considered as a man of parts, that this Idea of him was founded more on the reputation he had brought with him from England than on any thing he had done amongst us. Several attempts were made to get me to declare whether he had the full Confidence of the Court of France, and I waived answering as much as good manners would permit, and only said gener ally that the Congress had confided in him, and therefore the Court of France paid him all due respect. In short whatever good I could with Justice say of the Gentleman, I said expressly. When Questions were put to me which might be answered against him, I observed a reserve and Silence from whence a man of Sense might easily conclude that the an swers which must in truth be given to them, if I was pressed to it would not be in his favor. I was determined to this manner of conducting myself in the Conversation by my sense of good breeding, and my reluctance to speak evil of any person. Mr. Sami. Adams afterwards pressed me closely, and directly to this point, finding I could no longer avoid it without rudeness, I determined to be candid and explicit with him, and accordingly delivered myself to him at large upon the subject to the following Effect. 3 I must confess that Mr. Arthur Lee was suspected by People of all ranks, and even of the highest in France, of being unfriendly both to France and America, and the Ministry were sollicited to exclude him from all Negotiation. The Ministry observed that he was confidentially en trusted by the Congress, and therefore that there ought to be good proof of want of Integrity before a resolution should be taken openly to exclude him—they for this reason desired to know what proofs could be given— the following circumstances were then adduced, and much Insisted on. Mr. A. Lee kept up a continued connection with several Principle men in England who were intimate with the Cabinet, those persons came fre quently to Paris and conversed with him privately, and unknown to the Ministry, and to his Collegues. He frequently sent his Secretaries and Messengers to London, unknown to his Collegues and the Ministry, and they returned again without their business or the result of their Journies being known either to his Collegues or the Ministry. He had no Intimate in France but Count Loriga 4 who was a man of high Spirit, high fortune, and high birth, and from the Misfortune of some Malady or disappoint ment had conceived great disgust against the French Court, Ministry, and Nation, had removed his Fortune chiefly into England, had connected himself with Charles Fox, and several of the English Politicians and usu ally railed against France in the manner of the most enraged Englishman. This man was generally observed to speak of the Conversations which Mr. A. Lee had had with the Ministry, and to publish the particulars without
