338 April 15, 1779 reserve, also to use the same angry and contemptuous Language which Mr A. Lee had been frequently hear’d to use against the French Nation and Ministry. The Ministry however on Considering all those Circumstances did not think them proof sufficient to warrant their excluding a man who had been trusted by Congress from all knowledge of the Negotiations which related to them, and the Count 5 observed that he found there was some things which he had communicated to Mr A. Lee which he found Count Loriga was not informed of, and he therefore Concluded that Mr A. Lee observed some reserve to this Indiscreet man—and that he might still be safely trusted with some Confidence. Mr Laurens also Conversed with me on this Subject, and I observed the same Conduct as I did in conversing with Mr Lee and Mr Adams. Mr Laurens observed it, and told me he saw I was willing to say all the good I could but no evil. Upon the whole the conclusion that Mr A Lee had the full confidence of the Court of France could only be drawn from my not denying it possitively which good breeding, and a reluctance to say any thing which might be used by his Enemies, if he had any, against him, prevented me from. 6 MS (Nc-Ar: Secretary of State Records). In the hand of Thomas Burke and endorsed by him: “Conversation with Minister of France in presence of General Nelson relative Arthur Lee.” 1 Burke submitted this statement to the North Carolina Assembly in October 1779 with a report he delivered on “the variety of Business which came before Congress from the begin ning of January ‘79 to the middle of August.” During a debate on the subject of Arthur Lee, Burke explained, “a Gentleman from Massachusetts Bay (Mr. S. Adams) declared that he had it from the highest Authority, that Mr. Lee was not denied the full Confidence of the Court of Versails.” Because Burke’s reference to Samuel Adams pertains to remarks that Adams apparently made on April 15, it is reasonable to conclude that the incident Burke describes in this document occurred soon after Adams delivered those remarks. The fact that Henry Laurens and the French minister, Gerard, also had a conversation on April 16 on the same subject suggests that Gerard’s meeting with Burke and Thomas Nelson herein re counted also took place at about the same time. See John Fell’s Diary, April 6, note 2; Laurens’ Notes Respecting Gerard’s Views on Arthur Lee, April 21?; and Thomas Burke’s Report to the North Carolina Assembly, October 25? 1779. 2 The speaker is Conrad Alexandre Gerard. 3 For the difficulties Gerard had in conversing with Samuel Adams, see the document pertaining to this matter that he delivered to Adams on April 21. A transcript of that document, made by Henry Laurens, appears as a preamble to Laurens’ Notes Respecting Gerard’s Views on Arthur Lee, April 21? 1779, printed below. 4 Louis-Leon-Felicite de Brancas, comte de Lauraguais, who was also a major topic of the following document written by Richard Henry Lee concerning Gerard’s views on Arthur Lee. The document, which is in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN, was printed by Burnett under the date April 21, 1779, but it could have been written at almost any time after August 1778 that Lee was in Philadelphia. Burnett, Letters, 4:170-71. “At the time that Mr. Adams and R.H. Lee waited on Monsr. Gerard the Minister plenipotentiary of France to the United States in order to notify him of the time and place of his audience of Congress after the immediate business of the Committee was over and other
