April 16, 1779 341 Liberty & Independency. I had viewed the detention of the Convention Troops, in the light of a great stroke & as not a trial, the Resolution of the 22d April 1778, another, this like the Sailor’s gale of Wind, feels the heaviest but I am confident I shall weather it. Six Merchant Vessels laden with various kinds of wet & dry goods arrived yesterday at this City after Passage of fourteen days from Marti- nico, ’tis said the Deane Frigate their Convoy is in the River, others say she was left off the Capes in pursuit of an English Privateer, we are also told that fifteen other Vessels were ready to Sail from Martinico for this port—not a word of Count d’Estaing or other Interesting public Intelli gence has yet reached me. Mr. Gervais will show you the Public Prints & Mr. Wells two New York-Garrison Papers which contain trifles. It having been intimated to Mr. Langworthy that he had been sitting in Congress the last two Months without authority, he first examined very narrowly his old credentials, then said he had a new appointment at home, but has not exhibited his appointment nor himself since the 12th or 13th Inst. If it should be, as we believe it to be, that he has not a new mission, what shall be done with that Gentleman’s important Yeas & Nays from the of February last? Some people are so ill natured as to say, what I will not at present repeat. 1 I have not heard any thing lately from Camp—write to me often & largely. I pray God to give you success in all your laudable purposes & to bless you with health, Henry Laurens. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 For Langworthy’s attendance in Congress, see Edward Langworthy to John Houstoun, April 5, 1779, note 2. That Laurens was vitally interested in Langworthy’s eligibility to sit in Congress and subsequently attempted to make a formal issue of the matter is apparent from I^urens’ Notes of Debates in Congress for May 8, 1779. Henry Laurens to William Livingston 16th April [1779] Conscious of delinquency on my part in the correspondence which your Excellency had been pleased to honor me with, I had entertained hopes of waiting on you in my late journey into N. Jersey 1 and of obtaining your Excellencys forgiveness by making a candid acknowledgment of my tres passes. I was exceedingly mortified by a disappointment. I learned from your Excellencys dearest connexions that you were gone abroad but your locality not to be fixed. At my return to this City I took up my Pen to make a long apology and promise better behavior and this I attempted more than once, the same mauvais hont which had duped me into Silence before I went into the Country continued its influence to my disgrace.
