April 17, 1779 343 off her restrictions on the exportation of Military Stores. 1 Had there been any such intelligence as you mention you may be assur’d I shod have given a hint of it tho an injuncion of secrecy might have prevented my disclosing the whole. 2 The paper currency concerns me more then any thing, it is impossible to form an opinion what will become of it. It is the wish of Congress to appreciate it, a plan is now under consideration for that purpose but if this plan shod be adopted it will be a long time before it can take effect, to strike the whole deed at one blow wod be too danger ous an expedient while the necessaty of keeping a powerful Army in the field remains. The papers will give you all the intelligence in my power to furnish at present. I long to quit a mode of living so extreamly disagreable but my anxiety for the events that seem to be at hand will keep me here some time longer. This goes by Mr. Frost I wish his place may be well filled, no one shod be here who is capable of indulging Gloomy Ideas or who is not a thorough Republican. It gives me pleasure to hear our Families & connections are well. I hope you will be able to get a good Tenant at Kittery. When do you retire to the mountains? Let me hear from you as often as is convenient. Adieu. Your Affect Bror, W Whipple RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers). 1 For information on the erroneous reports of Dutch support of the United States that had recently reached America, see James Lovell to Horatio Gates, April 13, note 3; and Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, April 13, 1779. 2 In the absence of Joseph’s letter it is impossible to determine William’s precise meaning, but he was probably referring to reports than an “alliance” with Spain had been negotiated, which William also refuted in his April 14 letter to Josiah Bartlett. John Fell’s Diary Saturday April 17th [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Long debate about the manner of Gen Lincolns leaving, the Southern Army, on Account of His Ill State of Health. 1 Motion from the Delegates of Rhode Island to Raise 1500 Men, long Debated &c &c. Report from the Treasurey for 50,000 Ds in speicea to be sent to the Commissary General of Prisoners, Adjournd. P.M. M[a- rine] Committee on special Business. Dined with Mr. Jay. MS (DLC). 1 Gen. Benjamin Lincoln was this day given permission by Congress “to join the army under General Washington . . . when his health will admit of it.” On the other hand, although President Jay wrote to Lincoln this day, he did not notify the general of this decision for nearly a month, after Congress was able to agree on a commander to succeed him. See the following entry; Jay to Lincoln, May 15, 1779; and yCC, 13:464-66. Lincoln, however, did not leave his command in South Carolina until after surrendering his army and the city of Charleston to the British in 1780.
