356 April 19, 1779 Marine Committee Report State House 19 April 1779. The Marine Committee determined on Saturday evening the 17th in stant to dispatch the Packet Eagle to Charles Town with Military Stores—That she should be convoyed part of the way by the Cutter Re venge of 18 guns provided the State of Pennsylva. could spare the Re venge for that purpose That the frigate Deane of 30 guns should convoy the Packet the whole way to Charles Town. The Chairman of the Marine Committee has waited on the President of Pennsylvania and find that the Cutter Revenge is not at the disposal of the State, it seems doubtful therefor whether the Cutter can be obtained, so that the Deane frigate can only be relied upon for Convoy. The Committee were desirous of collecting a Marine force in order to attack the enemies Ships on the Coast of Georgia—And the best measures are taking to get together the following Ships, Confederacy of 32 guns, Warren 32, Deane 30, Ranger 18, Queen of France 20. The first of these Ships we hear is blocked up at New London, but the Committee think she may get out and have directed it accordingly. 1 The Deane is now in the Delaware. The other Three it is expected are cruising between Delaware & Charles Town. Richard Henry Lee Chn. M. Committee MS (ViHi: Edmund Jennings Lee Papers). Written and signed by Richard Henry Lee. 1 For the committee’s instructions to the commander of the Confederacy, see Marine Com mittee to Seth Harding, April 17, 1779. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen April 19th 1779 Since our last of the 26th ultimo we are favoured with yours of the 24th of the same month. 1 Your design of sending a force to intercept the Hudson Bay Company Ships and perhaps to surprize and carry their factory meets our approba tion—this Committee as well as your Board have had it often in contem plation; we therefore approve of the proposition made by the owner of a Privateer of twenty Guns, and agree that the Boston, instead of the Provi dence, shall be join’d with her and sent on the expedition above men tioned. 2 If you deem it necessary that the Ships should have a Tender, you may if you think proper, employ one of the Packets lately built, in that way, You will no doubt before the Sailing of these vessels draw up a plan to direct their proceedings. To assist you in that plan, we enclose some hints respecting the expedition which probably may be serviceable. 3 The Vessels we think Should have their full complement of Marines, and we
