April 19, 1779 357 need not mention how much the Success of the plan depends upon the secrecy with which it is conducted. We again request your endeavours for the Speedy manning of the Frig ate Providence, she will be wanted very soon for an important business which we hope you will have her ready to execute. She should Still have on board the quantity of Provisions we formerly Ordered. We are Gentn, Your Hble servants P.S. enclosed are Coppies of Accounts of William Bingham’s Esqr at Martinico for Disbursments of the frigate Deane, Captain Nicholson and for the Brig Genl. Gates, Capt. Waters which accounts we consider as being very extravagant, and desire that you will examine them and judge what articles were proper for the use of the Vessels, and such as you deem superflous you are to charge to the respective Accounts of the said Com manders & deduct from their pay on settlement. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The board’s March 24 letter to the committee is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. 2 The navy board’s plan to attack the posts of the Hudson’s Bay Company was not carried out by the United States; a French naval force commanded by Jean Francois de Galaup, comte de Laperouse, destroyed the company’s posts at Hudson Bay in 1782. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:441, 445. 3 Enclosure not found. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia 19th April 1779 Having nothing new to tell you and being too much engaged to attend to speculative matters, the design of this is only to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 25th of March and beg your care of the enclosed to Mrs W. 1 It gives me pleasure that delegates are appointed 2 —I hope one of them will come on as Soon as possible, as I am now alone, my colleague Frost having left me the 16th inst. 3 1 should be glad to be relieved immediately, but my great desire to have the Navy put on a more respectable footing inclines me to tarry till that is done, unless my constituents determine otherwise. I am respectfully yours, Wm Whipple. [P.S'.] The Deane is arrived in the river from Martinico—has taken noth ing on her passage. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Whipple’s enclosed letter to his wife has not been found. 2 In his March 25 letter to Whipple, Langdon had probably reported the election of Nathaniel Folsom and Nathaniel Peabody on March 24 and 25 as delegates to Congress. Subsequently on April 3, Woodbury Langdon, John’s brother, was elected to replace Fol-
