362 April 21, 1779 my Order (ie) the Store Keeper should deliver it as I may direct. Every Measure becomes necessary to prevent that Ruin which menaces us from Commissaries and QuarterMasters. I am with great Respect, your Excel lency’s, most obedt. & humble Servant, Gouv Morris RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written and signed by Gouverneur Morris. Endorsed: “re ceived the 30th of April 1779.” John Fell’s Diary Wednesday 21st April [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Motion made Per R H Lee 1 & Sec onded Per Mr Carmichal, the doors of Congress should be open. Some very severe remarks on the impropriety of the motion, agreed to Committ it to 5 vizt Mr Lee, Mr Adams, Mr Lovell, Mr Laurens & Mr Ellery. Letter from T. Payne, (lay on the Table). Order of the Day for foreign Affairs, Report of the Committee that all the Commissioners be Recall’d amended Per seperating the names, and that the Name of Dr B. Franklin Minister Plenopitentary be first put, long debate about his Carracter, till 4 oC and then adjournd. MS (DLC). 1 Before Lee offered this motion, the delegates had actually disposed of a number of other matters this day, one of which is both puzzling and ambiguous as it stands upon the journals of Congress. The mystery pertains to the decision of Elbridge Gerry to respond at this time to the March 17 attempt made by Henry Laurens and Samuel Adams to replace him on the foreign affairs inquiry committee, for which see Fell’s Diary, March 17, 1779, note. Why Gerry, who had been attending Congress regularly the entire period, waited so long to react to this maneuver will doubtless never be known. And the journal entry for this day is so muddled—in both Thomson’s manuscript copy and the published journal edited by Worth ington C. Ford—it is uncertain just how Thomson should have recorded the information pertaining to the incident. In Thomson’s manuscript, the three-paragraph entry concerning Gerry’s query opens with a motion by James Duane introducing a resolution explaining what had transpired on March 17, but since this passage introduces a resolve found in the third paragraph of the entry and was obviously interlined sometime after the second paragraph was penned, it is not improbable that the secretary misplaced the passage, which may have been intended to precede the third rather than the second paragraph. The confusion is somewhat com pounded in the printed journal by the fact that Ford injected yet a fourth paragraph, which consists of an alternate resolve attached to Duane’s motion drawn from the PCC. See JCC, 14:488; and PCC, item 1, 21:245-46; item 36, 1:19-20. Samuel Holten’s Diary [April 21-22, 1779] 21. Wednesday. Congress sit till 4 o’Clock considering the state of our foreign affaires.
