April 22, 1779 367 debate concerning “the conduct of the late and present commissioners of these states”—that he understood, “from the highest authority in America” [i.e., Gerard], that Lee was “pos sessed of the confidence of the Court of Versailles.” For the primary evidence relating to the efforts of Lee’s friends and detractors to determine the accuracy of Adams’ assertion, see Thomas Burke’s Statement respecting Gerard’s Views, April 16?; Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, April 26 and 30; and William Henry Drayton and William Paca to Congress, April 30, 1779. 2 There is a copy of this “Certificate,” in the hand of James Lovell, in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Since Lovell was fluent in French, it seems reasonable to conjecture that the original had been given to him to translate. That the original “Certificate” was in French seems clear from the copy of it, which is in the hand of Richard Henry Lee, that is in the Lee Papers, ViU. At the bottom of the Lee copy, which differs only slightly from Laurens’ transcript, appear the following notations: “True Copy, R. H. Lee. “Mais que le Ministere de sa Majeste n’a pas adopte cette facon de penser sur 1’attache- ment de Monr. Arthur Lee pour la cause Americaine et pour l’alliance. “Directed A Monsieur “Monsieur Samuel Adams Delegue au Congres de la part de 1’etat de Massachusets Bay.” Marine Committee to Henry Fisher Sir April 21st. 1779 We expect one of the Continental frigates will shortly appear at the Capes of Delaware bound into the Bay and in that case she will want a Pilot. She will shew a Signal by hoisting a Pennant at her foretopmast head and a jack at her main top mast head by which you will know her and we request that you will send her off a Pilot. Should the Captain 1 of this Frigate send you on Shore any despatches for this Committee we request you will immediately forward the same to this place by an express and we shall pay any expences that may arise. Your well known zeal for the Public cause induces us to apply to you on this occasion. We are sir, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Capt. Seth Harding, commander of the frigate Confederacy, had been directed by the committee on April 17 to contact Major Fisher when his ship reached Lewes, Del. See Marine Committee to Harding, April 17, 1779. William Henry Drayton to Timothy Matlack Sir, Eleven, A. M. April 22nd, 1779. In obedience to the order of Council this day published, 1 I do without delay return into your hands the first & second Vols of “State Tracts” which I had removed from the State Library, where I had not time to use them to my lodgings where, after Congress hours, I had time to turn them over with attention. These are the only books which I ever removed from the Library. If I could have thought that such an use of the Books would have given
