368 April 22, 1779 offence, I should not have taken such a liberty. However, I shall not repeat a conduct which I find is disagreeable. 2 I am, Sir, Your most obedt. Servt, Wm Hy Drayton. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:328-29. 1 Reflecting its pique over recent confrontations with members of Congress, the Pennsylva nia Council had resolved the previous day to recall state library books lent to members of Congress. Pa. Council Minutes, 11:755. The episode suggests that the breach between Pennsyl vania and Congress that had opened as a result of the state’s efforts to punish Benedict Arnold had not been closed, despite recent efforts to do so. See Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, March 26, note 1; and John Jay to Joseph Reed, April 13, 1779. 2 The council minutes indicate that “Mr. Drayton returned 2 Vols. of State Tracts belong ing to the State Library” this day. In an immediate reply to Drayton’s letter, Secretary Matlack stated that “It was not the intention of Council to prevent the delegates of Congress from the use of the State Library, but so great a number of books being abroad, without any account of them, it became absolutely necessary to publish them, in order to call them in. I shall, without hesitation, at any time, send you any books you shall have reason of.” See Pa. Council Minutes, 11:755; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:335. John Fell’s Diary Thursday 22d Api. [1779] Commercial Comm. Congress. Letter from Genl Mullenburgh about Rank. Do from Colonels Van Courtland & Gansevoort abt Do. Referrd to the Board of Warr. Letter from Genl Washington. Do from Genl Green in Town; Referrd to Whipple, Morris & Arm strong. Judge McKean. 1 Order of the Day on foreign affairs, after long debate till Past 4 the Question was put whether Dr Franklin should be Recall’d, Yas & Nas, Car[rie]d in the Negative. PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 This entry simply indicates that Thomas McKean took his seat in Congress in the midst of this day’s proceedings. Delaware was not represented when the first roll call vote of this day was taken, but McKean later cast the state’s vote against the recall of Franklin when two votes on the issue were taken subsequently. Although this much is clear, the delegates’ excited reaction to McKean’s appearance this day is puzzling. Objection was made to having his attendance recorded in the journals—his only appearance between February 24 and June 11—although how the matter arose and why the objection was voiced is not clear. Secretary Thomson made the following entry in his journals for April 22 but, as the words are crowded in the margin and between the lines, he obviously penned them as an afterthought: “Mr. McKean a delegate for Delaware attended & took his seat.” That they were subsequently lined out merely adds to the confusion; and according to Fell’s diary the following day: “Mr. S. Adams moved that Mr. McKean being Enterd on the Journals as attending, might be cancelld and a Debate insued agreed to stand.” If Fell is right on this latter point, the entry should not have been lined out at all. Amid so much conflicting evidence, any interpretation must remain largely conjectural. See JCC, 13:491, 498-500; PCC, item 1, 21:250; and Fell’s Diary, April 23, 1779.
