April 22, 1779 369 That the congressional debate on the recall of the American commissioners in France sparked controversy is beyond doubt, and McKean himself later recurred to this subject in the following March 25, 1780, letter to Richard Henry Lee, claiming in the process an inflated role for himself in opposing the recall movement. “In the Winter & Spring of 1779 there was a cabal, whose views I could not fathom; there were some possessed of restless spirits, and who endeavored to set member against member, and the Congress against the States, particularly Pennsylvania and those of New-England, and the States agt. Congress. Every artifice was used to instill prejudices against all our foreign Ministers and Commissioners, particularly your brothers; and I really believe, if I had not in April last gone off the Bench into Congress, in the face of a vote of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, that they would have been recalled without exception. My fears were, that at that critical period, when it had been propagated in Europe; and some uneasiness discovered on that score by the court of France; that we were listening to overtures from Great Britain, a change of men might have implied a change of measures, and given some countenance to the reports; and for this reason I thought it wrong to recal any Gentleman in such a conjuncture. The vote was taken with respect to Doctor Franklin, and being determined in the negative, it was postponed as to the rest until I was absent on the circuit. Places were sought after by some, and vacancies were necessary for the purpose of obtaining them, but I could not think this was the only thing in contemplation; tho’ I may have been mistaken, as harmony seemed to be restored in some measure upon the appointments of Messrs. Jay and Carmichael. The death of Mr. Drayton, and the considerable change about that time of the members, several of them not having been re-elected, left us pretty quiet ever since, tho’ prejudices still too much prevail.” Lee Papers, PPAmP. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Brother, Annapolis Api. 22d. 1779 I am thus far on my way home from Congress, & finding a Vessel about to depart from hence tomorrow morning for France; I embrace the oppor tunity of letting you know that all your friends are well. There is as yet no determination on Deane’s affairs, but probably soon will be, & I fear, much to your prejudice, shou’d it be otherways now, I am satisfied you will in the end be sacrificed, & therefore it may not be amiss to think in time, of some establishment in which your honor & fortune will be less dependant on the villainy & folly of Mankind. For my own part I am determined to retire being fully convinced, that at present, the post of honor, is a private station. Tell our bror. W. 1 to look to himself, I shall write fully to him about his affairs, by the first opportunity after my arrival in Virginia. You was not mistaken in your opinion as to the support D 2 brot with him; the open and indecent countenance which has been given to those who were never friends to independance, nor of course to the Alliance, will I fear injure greatly the common cause, if England is wise enough to make use of the advantage. The world will expect from you a clear refutation of all the infamous slanders, which a most abandoned junto have thrown on you; with a full exposure of their wicked plots against the public. Therefore no pains shou’d be spared in collecting materials. The want of a cypher & the uncertainty of this con veyance prevents my being more full, but I expect R.H.L. 3 who is still at
