370 April 22, 1779 Congress, will give you a compleat Idea of our present system of Politicks. Remember me to Mr. Adams & Mr. Lloyd. Love to W.L.’s family. Yours ever, Loudoun [Francis Lightfoot Lee] 4 [P.S.] Mrs. Lloyd & Mrs. Lee command me to give their Love to you. This moment I have reed, advice from Virga, of the death of our friend Col. Tayloe. RC (MH-H: bMS Am 811.5). 1 That is, William Lee. 2 Silas Deane. 3 Richard Henry Lee. 4 Lee’s departure from Congress on April 16 brought to an end a distinguished career that began with the autumn session of the Second Continental Congress in September 1775. Although he is last mentioned in the journals on April 14, his accounts give his final period of attendance as “from the 7th Novr. 1778 to the 16 Api. 1779 inclusive being 161 Days at 15 Dollars a day £724.10.” Emmet Collection, NN; and JCC, 13:452. Another manuscript in Lee’s hand pertaining to his congressional career consists of some “queries” and foreign “Intelligence,” apparently drafted for publication. As it is accompa nied by two draft letters in the hand of Richard Henry Lee addressed to “Mr. Dunlap,” all were doubtless intended for submission to the Pennsylvania Packet, but no evidence that they were published has been found. They demonstrate the Lee brothers’ continuing effort to protect the positions of Arthur and William Lee abroad. The documents’ contents seem to indicate that the queries were written shortly after the foreign affairs inquiry committee reported to Congress on March 24, for which see JCC, 13:363-68. The covering letters were written thereafter, but apparently a few days apart. The rough state of the documents and their location in the Samuel Adams Papers suggests that they were sent to Adams for review. The fact that the queries were never published in the Packet may be attributed to Francis Lightfoot’s departure for Virginia, the momentum that the “recall debate” quickly assumed, and Richard Henry’s decision to resign his seat in Congress. For information on the recall debate in Congress, see John Fell’s Diary, April 6, 1779, note 2. For Lee’s resignation, see Richard Henry Lee to the Virginia House of Delegates, May 4, 1779. See also Francis Lightfoot to Richard Henry Lee, January 5, 1779, note 3. The cover letters drafted by Richard Henry, which bear the heading “Publication respect ing Mr. Silas Deane,” read as follows: “Mr. Dunlap. As Mr. Silas Dean has thought proper to produce before the public a suggestion of much suffering and great merit on his part, which he insinuates on the part of others much demerit, and having given reason to expect that his insinuations should be realized by a communication of facts which it was of importance should be known, Which communication having been long promised but not complied with—As a free and virtuous Citizen of America I have taken pains to get the best possible information about the causes and probable consequences of Mr. Deanes unusual Address of the 5 th of December last, and could wish to be aided in my enquiries by having plain answers given to the following plain quiries. “Mr Dunlap. I chanced the other evening to fall in company with a person whom I found after conversing upon the subject which has lately engaged the public attention to be a Supporter of Mr. Silas Deane, after some general and evasive justification of Mr. Deans conduct he proceeded to shew the necessity of recalling the other Commissioners] by the following reasons—Because said he they have quarr[el]ed, and there have been such dis- pu[ta]tions and disagreements as tend to the injury of the public affairs—That the M[ess]rs. Lee wanted obilites [abilities?] and that their Manners were ungracious, their tempers suspi cious, quarelsome, and jealous; and these opinions of those gentlemen I found were to be supported by the evidence of Mr. Deane, and two or three others whom he has combined with him &c by a similarity of manners, and of interested views. This conversation suggested to me the following quiries which an honest enquirer would be thankful for a plain answer to.” Francis Lightfoot’s draft “queries” continue:
