April 22, 1779 371 “A Person in public employ, informs of misconduct in another, & furnishes documents on which he founds his opinion, are his proceedings to be invalidated, by the accusation of the Accused Person upon his bare assertion, unsupported by any evidence or ought he to be in the least affected, by such accusation? “Is the former to be deemed & punished as quarrelsome because the latter, will fasten a quarrel upon him, for endeavoring to prevent the waste of public money; & informing those of his grounds of suspicion, who alone have the power of remedying the Evil? Has there been any quarrelling with A.L. since S.D. left France? Was there any quarrels between A.L. & Doctor F when they served Massachusets together in London? Has not S.D. transfer’d the quarrels from France to America? If S.D. has been successfull in infusing Jealousies into the minds of some of the French Ministers of A. Lee (which is denied from the best Author ity) what has that to do with the Court of Spain, to which he belongs? & with whom he has had considerable success, in procuring supplies? “Deane’s insinuations have gone forth to the world as charges against A.L. & W.L., a recal fixes those charges as truths & persons will be sacrificed, who have given up their greatest prospects to serve the Public, & have entrusted their honor & everything dear to them to the Justice of their Country, & why? Because persons, whom they have endeavoured to prevent from injuring the public, abuse them for doing their duty. What man hereafter will endeavor to bring defaulters to justice, who will certainly be offended & quarrel if in consequence of the defaulter’s quarrelling with him, he must necessarily be disgraced & ruined? Is it not the most proper way to punish the Offender & enlarge Your confidence in the Man who has contributed to bring him to Justice. The Cause being removed, the effect will cease. What Minister can be confident in his exertions for the public good, when he knows, that if any designing persons, disappointed in their views, shall fasten a quarrel upon him, he must for that reason alone be inevitably ruined? In the present case it is necessary to examine well into D’s Conduct, to see if there were not good grounds for A Lee’s interfering with his proceedings if there was, was it not his duty to do it? If in consequence of his doing [his] duty, D. wou’d quarrel with him is it his fault? Is there any [.. .] reason to suppose A.L. will have any quarrel in Spain, unless from the same cause, which Congress may prevent, by instructing A L not to notice any misconduct in persons employed by the public in his District. “May it not be the design of some to obtain the benefit of such an instruction by futile appointments as an assortment of Characters may present such Incapacity & littleness dis covers as it may greatly import the public to be made acquainted with. “W L & A L went to London [in] 1768 quite strangers, it is notorious, the rank they held there at the commencemt of this war. They had the honor of an acquaintance & even intimacy with Lds. Chatham, Temple, & Shelburne, Sergeant Glyn, Mr. Dunning & many other eminent characters in that Country, for all this they coud not be indebted to their connections or parliamentary interests, they had none, nor to their wealth; for tho born in a Wealthy family, they were the youngest of many children. The persons above named were certainly acquainted with mankind, & it cannot be supposed that they wou’d have honored with their regards, Persons who were unfit for any public character & of disgracefull man ners, who were circumstanced as the Messrs. Lees were at that time. This discovery is reserved for Deane & a few others who have seen more of the world, kept better company, & of finer parts & understanding than those Noblemen & Gentlemen. Is it possible for human credulity to be stretched so far, as to pay any regard to them? “Intelligence reed, from the American Commissioners “It had been debated in the british Cabinet, whether Independance shou’d be acknowl edged. That there was no prospect of our Enemies getting any reinforcements except what might be raised in their own dominions. The sailing of the Cork fleats. The situation of the whale fishery, the vessels employed in it, easy to be destroyed. “The friendly sentiments of Holland, & of their having actually agreed upon a Treaty, to take place at a proper time. “The friendly disposition of the King of the two Sicilies, & of his having opened his ports to American Vessels, with a desire of being informed how to distinquish them.
