374 April 22, 1779 Congress, except for prizes taken by the ships belonging to the United States. These states have, in this instance, considered the resolve of Con gress in its true light, as advisory, and done as they saw best. But we are told, that it is proper that Congress should have an appeal on those matters both in law and fact. Perhaps it may be so. It is likely the civilized world would be better satisfied with such a course of proceeding; but then the trial of the original capture should be by witnesses and not by jury, which admits of the full appeal desired. The claims of our own people, however, for shares or distribution, concern not foreigners, and may continue as heretofore; and such is the case of the sloop Active. How ever, if any new regulations are needed, before the consideration shall be enforced by the accession of the state of Maryland, the only hesitating state in union, let them be devised and recommended to the several com munities. These cannot, in the nature of things, look backward, or take in cases, for which the laws in being have provided. Again, it is alledged for this jurisdiction in Congress, that persons from different states may have controversies upon these points, and that an impartial body, like Congress, will be necessary to decide between them. But this would equally prove the necessity of a Court of Appeals in debt, real actions, and all other civil suits; nay, in criminal too, to secure justice to the people of one state, who may have debates about property, or may be charged with offences in another; an idea not entertained, as yet, as I have heard. Lastly, it is supposed, that this claim is supported by the law of nations. Not to mention, that when the resolves of November, 1775, were made, no pretentions to national character were yet set up; it is observable, that the band of national union, the Confederation, is not yet agreed to by all, nor binding on any. Besides, a General Court of Appeals in the hands of the Supreme Power of the nation, is not, perhaps, a dictate of the law of nations, but rather the creature of treaties between the Maritime Powers of Europe. At least Blackstone, and Lee in his Treatise upon Captures, 4 say, that the Privy Council in Britain decide ultimately in prize causes, in pursuance of treaties. After stating this controversy, I shall add, that it is now proposed, in order to support the honour of Congress in this business, that the Trea surer of the United States be authorized to pay the appealants a sum equal to the product of the sloop Active and her cargo, to be charged to the state of Pennsylvania, unless cause be shewn, &c. 5 Against this Penn sylvania will protest; nor will the difficulty end here. Should it be done, the like reimbursement will be due to Capt. Hugh McCulloch of this state, late of this city, for a ship and cargo of sugar, condemned at Boston; the appeal to Congress, which he earnestly sought here and in New-England, being denied him. Others too, in like cases, will ask like recompence; particularly, those whose vessels may hereafter be brought into Philadel phia under seizure, as the offensive act of Assembly continues in force.
