April 22, 1779 375 It may be asked, whether this extreme nicety of character is either proper or safe, when assumed by Congress, for the Body, but much more for a Committee. The several states will doubtless have, from time to time, debates with the General Council of the nation. Now, it will be a very dangerous idea, that when Congress contend mistakingly for any point, that for the sake of the dignity of that Supreme Assembly, the state af fected must recede from her right. I have hoped that these extravagant positions, which suit admirably well with the superstitious and slavish reverence paid to Princes, would be left with the Europeans. I call for no formal acknowledgments of error; but I should think it no derogation from Congress to forbear proceeding in a wrong path, when convinced of mistake. In the reign of George the First of England, an interested suitor carried an appeal from Ireland to Westminster. The British House of Lords catched at the opportunity of enlarging their authority, and voted that the decree of the Irish Lords, in this case, was void, as made without jurisdiction. Suppose the Commons of Ireland, as they ought, had im peached the Barons of their Exchequer for taking notice of and executing the judgment of a foreign jurisdiction; and that these Judges fixed in premunire, 6 had been subdued, and the decree of the Irish Peers executed, what would have become of British dignity? This ought to have been done. But the corrupt Commons of Ireland were managed, and the na tional rights sacrificed to the ambition and character of the Nobles of Britain. The Delegates of New-York must recollect the noble stand made by the Judges of the Supreme Court in the late province, in the case of Forsey and Cunningham, when a designing Governor, in a Court of Ap peal, attempted to examine the verdict of a jury; a parallel case with the present; and the event of it, to wit, that his masters in England, who doubtless wished that he might succeed, ashamed of the futile claim, or dered it to be dropped. Douglas tells us,’ that after the King and Council of Britain, determined in Mr. Winthorp’s case, who appealed, when no appeal lay, that the judgment from England, declaring against the law of Connecticut for dividing inheritances, was disregarded in America, and the appeal to his Majesty still denied. I shall leave the subject with mentioning the fatal consequence of the conduct of the British Legislature, in declaring, by act, their power over North-America in all cases whatsoever, consequently in taxing, passed, to save their honour, on repealing the Stamp act. What has become of vio lated dignity in this case? The people abroad suspect, that all this ado is not, however, made to repair the supposed contempt, nor yet to do justice to Gideon Umpsted and his fellows, but for the benefit of the managers of the puppets. It is thought too much for the same men to sustain the characters of Advocates, Judges, and perhaps in this business, An AMERICAN MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet, or the General Advertiser, April 22, 1779. Authorship of this article has been attributed to Morris because it appeared over the signa ture, “An American,” the usual pseudonym of Morris.
