April 24, 1779 379 N.B. Dr Benjn Franklin Minister Plenoptenary, fixt. Silas Deane. Arthur Lee. Court of Madrid (Never has been there). Ralph Izard Court of Tuscany No use Willm Lee. Courts of Viena & Berlin No use J Adams. Private. MS (DLC). 1 Samuel Holten’s diary entry this day reads: “Congress adjourned at 2 oClock. I ride out with the Honl. Mr. Gerry.” MDaAr. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams My dear Sir, Philadelphia April 24th 1779 To such uncertain issue are all letters now exposed that are committed to Ship board, that it absolutely prohibits that full and explicit declara tion of ones sentiments on many important points which I shall ever wish to make to you on whose wisdom and goodness I have the firmest reliance. The principles you adopt, and the conduct you intend to pursue, as men tioned in the letter you did me the honor to write me the 5 of Augt. last, I do most thoroughly approve. I know well that your support will only be given to the cause of virtue and your country, and that it will never be withheld therefrom. Who fails in doing right, fails nobly because Virtue is its own and a very great reward. You will see by the public prints, which Mr. Lovell tells me he has transmitted since the 1st of December last, that we are not exempt from the common Lot of humanity. But, tho Deanes and Partners of Deanes may and will shoot up in every Soil, and the foulness about them thicken for a time the purest streams, these will at length work themselves clear and as they run refine. The bold and sudden attempt made by Deane’s Libel of Deer. 5 on the public mind, seized it for a time with great violence, and hurried it away with too much rapidity for reflection. But no sooner did men begin to think than they began to see, and S. Deane has now fallen under universal contempt and censure. I am sure it has not been this Mans fault if he hath not done more injury to these States than G. Howe ever did. But enough of him. We shall soon transmit our plan for foreign affairs, and in the mean time, we are very impatient to hear from you, not having done so for three months past. We hope Spain will join France, which will indeed make decisive work. We are preparing for the ensuing Campaign with all possible vigor, but the enemies and our troops yet remain in quarters this way, and it seems probable that the former will be glad to continue so all the Summer as they have not more than 10 or 12,000 men both in York & Rhode Island, which force, if collected, would not be sufficient to take the field. The enemy have made a successful impression on Georgia this winter, but I
