380 April 24, 1779 consider this in the same light of mere temporary effect, as we have seen all their former operations. Measures are taking to remove them from that State, and tho the Climate wars against us, it will not fight for them. I see, with you, the importance of the Confederation, and I am not without hope that it will eer long, be completed. All have agreed except Mary land, and that State it is thought will come in at the next meeting of their Assembly, which will be in a few months. The Assembly of Virginia have directed their Delegates to move Congress to fix a day for closing this great Compact between such of the States as have consented, allowing either a given or indefinite time, as to Congress shall seem best, for dissent ing States to become Members. We shall shortly move Congress for this purpose 1 The Currency is an object of the last importance. Tax we do, and very largely indeed, but this is still inadequate. Some aid, by foreign Loans, is indispensable by way of absorbing the immensity of the Mass. Two Millions of pounds sterling applied this way would, with the aid of Taxes, so restore us As to put the remainder of our Money on a good foundation, and then, Taxation with ceconomy will do the rest. 2 Lately our Coasts have been pretty free from the enemies Cruisers. They have now an ample call for their Sea force in other ports, and at present our frigates preserve our trade from the interruption it met with by the numerous small Privateers of the enemy. Be pleased to accept a pamphlet that accompanies this containing a special collection from our Journals made to counteract certain false and ill designed assertions of the British Commissioners lately here. 3 I am, yours dear Sir with the most affectionate esteem and regard, Richard Henry Lee [P.5.] Direct your letters for me to the care of Dr. Shippen in Philadelphia. FC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 For Virginia’s next move to secure ratification of the Articles of Confederation, see North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell, May 20; and Virginia Delegates to the Speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates, May 22, 1779. See also John Henry to Thomas Johnson, January 20, 1779, note. 2 For some of the specific proposals found in the reports of the committee on the treasury that were under consideration at about this time, see JCC, 13:491-98, 14:519-20. 3 Undoubtedly Gouverneur Morris’ Observations on the American Revolution (Philadelphia: Styner and Cist, 1779). Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen April 24th 1779 Since ours of the 19th instant we are favoured with yours of the 6th. 1 As the frigate Providence will be wanted for a very Special and particular purpose we do not wish to run the hazard of her being out of the way when called for therefore we request that when she returns you will keep her in Port ready in every respect for the Sea.
