April 25, 1779 381 We have lately purchased a Small vessel that will carry about 300 barrels flour and are now lading her with that article for the use of your Department. We are Gentlemen, Your hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 In its April 6 letter to the Marine Committee, the board had informed the committee of plans for a coastal cruise by the frigate Providence. Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir Philada. Apr. 24, 1779. The inclosed Copy of a Letter to the continental Treasurer 1 is sent to inform the honble. Assembly that, agreable to the Tenor thereof, we have made a further Appropriation of the Sum of twenty five thousand Dollars out of the one hundred and fifty thousand which Congress ordered on the 5th of this month to be advanced to the State on Account. Mr Purviance informed us that Gentlemen in this City were desirous of purchasing the Draughts of his Brothers on the Board of War; but we thought it more eligible to order the Bills to be negotiated by the Trea surer, lest they should be presented to the Board of War at a Time when they were not in Cash to answer the Draughts. We hope for the Concur rence of the Assembly in this Affair. We are with much Truth, Sir, your very humble Servants, Samuel Adams James Lovell E Gerry S Holten RC (MB: Chamberlain Collection). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Adams, Gerry, and Holten. 1 Not found, but for similar letters to Michael Hillegas, see the Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, April 14 and 26, 1779. John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard Sir, Philadelphia 25th April 1779 1 I shall do myself the honor of communicating your Favor of this day, together with the memorial accompanying it, to Congress this morning. 2 The Importance of the Subject, as well as the Respect due to the Appli cations of their good & great Ally, will, I am persuaded, induce Congress to place it among the first Objects of their Attention. I have the Honor to be Sir, With perfect Esteem & Respect, your most Obedt. & Hble Servt.
