April 25, 1779 383 There is nothing to be written from hence that can at all benefit or amuse you, if I was not greatly engaged in preparing for the Departure of a Vessel for France tomorrow. Schuyler’s Resignation is accepted. It is said the Marqs. De Fayette is safe home so that I hope to hear of some help thence to our Currency. I am very affectionately yr. Friend & humble Servant, James Lovell RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 Although the addressee is not indicated on this document and the manuscript is located in the papers of Gen. Nathanael Greene, the letter’s content clearly indicates that Lovell was writing to Benjamin Lincoln. Lovell’s reference to “Majr. Mead” is to Lincoln’s aide Ever ard Meade, and it was Lincoln whose retirement had recently been authorized by Congress because of his poor health. 2 See John Jay to Lincoln, May 15, 1779. Gouverneur Morris to John Dunlap Mr. Dunlap. [ca. April 25, 1779] 1 Several Pieces in your Paper 2 having reflected upon my Reputation you will do me the Favor of inserting this. That I have taken no Notice of them hitherto and take Notice of them now requires an Explanation. I neglected them because I supposed myself superior to them and I sup posed so because I felt a Consciousness that I merited Something different from Detraction. I now write because some Friends whom I value at a Distance from the present Scene or otherwise not well informed draw odious Conclusions from my Silence. It is not my Object to inveigh against any Man. Every free Citizen hath a Right to think, speak and write freely of public Measures and of public Men. As I feel no one Spark of Resentment I shall cast no one Reflection. I am vain enough to believe that I could convey a Pang to the Bosoms of those who have stimulated Publications agt me. But satyrical Remarks can do no Good (to the Public) & therefore I shall avoid them. I applaud the Zeal of those Gentlemen who laudably endeavor to bring bad Men and bad Measures to Light. They will however pardon me for holding & declaring an Opinion that Charges not well founded in incon- testible Facts are injurious to the Public. They weaken such as may be afterwards made on better Ground and by lessening the Confidence of the People frequently defeat the most salutary Efforts. If I have done Evil let the Consequences of Guilt overtake me. If not all I ask is that in future & with Respect to others a Life devoted to the Service of Mankind & the voluntary Sacrifice of Time, Ease and health in public Cares may induce so much Charity as to believe that a Difference in Opinion upon Subjects of great Magnitude does not imply a Guiltiness of Intention & That self Interest is not always the Spring of human Conduct. I have not much Time that I can call my own nor have I a Right to intrude upon the Patience of others. Brevity on the present Occasion
