April 25, 1779 385 Gouverneur Morris to Joseph Reed Sir, Phila. 25th April 1779. I was honored with your Excellency’s Favor of the 16th late on Sunday Evening last. 1 Since that Period I have been so occupied with indispens- ible public Affairs that I have not been able to answer it. I hope you will excuse a Delay which by no Means proceeded from Inattention. You express a Wish to know whether my Letter 2 was public or private. As it was my Design to render it agreable I pray you to consider it in which ever Light you shall think proper. As you hold up the Idea that your Conduct on the Conference was that of a public Man I have nothing more to say with Relation to it but must lament in Silence my Misfortune. Your Information of my Conduct in and out of Congress leads it seems to a Conclusion that I harbor hostile Sentiments to your Government and pursue a Line of Opposition to you. I believe your Information is not so good as you suppose. Mentioning out of Congress Matters which pass in it tending to irritate shews a Disposition in the Relator which renders many Allowances necessary for a candid Interpretation. I did indeed as a Dele gate reprobate those Proceedings of your Council which in my Opinion reflected upon Congress; but even this would have been done with more Temperance if I had not been stimulated by Attempts to prevent it under the Pain of personal Danger. As for the Rest I still think as I always did that in your State and every other the Government as a Government is to be supported that the Form and the Administrators of it depend on the People and that Congress ought not to interfere either one Way or the other. My Conduct out of Congress has been much misrepresented and I could give you Instances to contradict the Conclusions you have drawn but this is not the Season nor are you perhaps in the Temper to receive them. Clearly you have misunderstood what I said with Respect to the Per sonalities in Arnold’s Case. Many Reasons will suggest themselves to you upon Consideration to shew sufficient Ground for the Hint without touch ing you and to remove from me the Imputation of a Versatility of Con duct which you have charged me with. Whoever hath asserted that I encouraged Genl. Arnold and those about him to insult your State was either misinformed himself or meant to de ceive you. The direct contrary is true. The Mischief was done before I knew a Syllable of the Matter. Afterwards I advised Concession and Apol ogy tho I did not think myself authorized to compel them. You say that you have incurred Censure for parting with Wilkins’s Letter. 3 To gratify the good Wishes of those who can censure one Gentle man for sending another his Letters I return that in Question. Permit me at the same Time to express my Acknowlegement for the Sacrifices you made on that Occasion.
