394 April 27, 1779 James Duane to George Clinton Sir; Philad. 27th April 1779. We had the Honour of your Excellency’s Favour respecting the Ex change of our unfortunate Friends in the Hands of the Enemy. 1 Congress some time since vested the Commander in Chief with full power to settle a general or partial Cartell for the Exchange of Prisoners, leaving the whole transaction to his Discretion. I have for this Reason, with the approbation of my Colleagues, transmitted your Excellency’s Letter and the Enclosures to the Commander in Chief, and requested him to correspond with you on the Subject: & I have no doubt but he will do every thing you wish or recommend. 2 I congratulate your Excellency on the important Success of our little Squadron; it is a Seasonable Supply for us, & will distress our Enemies. Favourable Reports prevail respecting the Operations to the Southward but they are not sufficiently authenticated to deserve a detail of particu lars. The Extravegance of living here is beyond description and the Burthen of publick business, intollerable. I am for my own part worn down and stand in great need of Relaxation; when our Finances are placed on some Footing, I must beg for your Excellency’s Indulgence, the more so, as I am here without Summer Cloaths, and cannot reconcile it to my Feelings to purchase at the immoderate Prices which are current. I beg leave to refer your Excellency to Mr. Lewis for Information on the State of publick matters, and have the Honour to be, with the highest Respect, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:761-62. 1 For Gov. George Clinton’s April 11, 1779, letter concerning the exchange of civilians captured and placed on parole by loyalist and Indian forces in New York, see ibid., pp. 710-11. 2 For Duane’s letter to Washington and the general’s response, see New York Delegates to Washington, this date. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday [April] 27th [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. Petition from General Arnold. Letters from S. Deane. Genl Gates, 1 Genl Heath, General Washington, order on the Treasury for 2000 Guineas. 2 Letter from Lt Hale, Committed. Auditors 8 Drs. Per Day. Jos Howell Nominated. 3 This day, too much like many others, spent in Debate to answer no valuable Purpose. P.M. Marine Committee.
