April 27, 1779 395 MS (DLC). 1 The journals do not record the receipt of a letter from Horatio Gates this day. 2 Congress’ resolve authorizing Washington to draw on the treasurer “to the amount of two thousand guineas” indicates that the action was taken to provide “specie for secret services.” JCC, 14:526. 3 Capt. Joseph Howell, having already been recommended by the Board of Treasury as an additional army auditor, was actually elected to the post this day. JCC, 14:515. Marine Committee to the Commissioners at Paris Sirs April 27th. 1779 We have long expected that the Agents in France would have furnished us with accounts of their Disbursments for the Continental Ships of war and with the Sales and distribution of Prizes taken by those Ships, but are Still without them. It is now become highly necessary that we should have these Accounts, therefore we request Gentlemen that you will give Orders to the Agents immediately to make them up fully and clearly and send them to us as soon as possible as we have already been much embarrassed for want of them. We also request that in future you will give strict orders that it be the constant practice of the Agents to furnish this Committee regularly with Duplicate or triplicate Accounts of their Disbursments for the Continental Vessels of war, Inventories of all Prizes taken—Accounts Sales corresponding with those Inventories & the distribution made of such Prizes. The Ship Reprizal being unfortunately lost returning to America, we have frequent application made to us for pay & Prize Money by the representatives of her Crew which from the want of accounts we are un able to satisfy, the Cutter Revenge commanded by Captain Conyngham is arrived here, and is partly claimed by private persons, we are equally at a loss for want of her accounts and the many Prizes she took in the European Seas. When necessity obliges advances to be made to Navy Officers in France that are returning from captivity or otherways, we request you will order that we be regularly advised of all such advances. We have the honor to be, Gentlemen, Your very hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen April 27th 1779 Since ours of the 24th instant we have not been favoured with any of yours, Captain J.B. Hopkins has informed us of the great success of the Continental ships in their late Cruize, 1 which account was very pleasing and we hope ’ere this the Prizes are all Arrived. We request that you will prepare for the Sea with all possible expedition all the Continental Vessels
