396 April 27, 1779 of war that are now under your direction to go upon a Cruize of great utillity to the Public and benefit to the Seamen and you will shortly receive our further Instructions concerning their destination. You are hereby directed to purchase the Prize Ship Jason of 20 Guns & the Prize Schooner Hibernia provided on Survey they are found to be suitable Vessels for the Navy. If they are purchased you will prepare them to sail with the other Vessels. We have had reason to beleive that the frigate Confederacy would have been ready and at sea some months ago, which not being the Case we desire you will inform yourselves immediately of the cause of her detention and as it is of great and immediate importance to the Public that She be immediately got to Sea, if in your Opinion that purpose will be more speedily effected by giving Captain Saltonstal the command of her, we desire you will do so, and immediately thereafter cause a Court of Inquiry to examine into the conduct of Captain Har ding. 2 We request you will send forward to us with all despatch properly adjusted compleat accounts of the Prizes taken by the frigate Deane on her late cruize. That vessel is now in this River and her Crew will expect to receive their share of Prize Money before they reenter therefore it is of much importance that we be speedily furnished with the necessary Papers to enable us to make distribution amongst them. Captain Nicholson writes to his Agent Mr Mathias Brimmer to pay the proceeds into your hands, and you can draw upon us for the amount. We beg this business may be finished with all despatch. The Number of Marine officers now in Commission we consider are more than is consistent with that oeconomy which Should be Observed in all our public Affairs—and as a new System is now forming for the regu lation of the Navy Department, we do not desire to have any new officers of that kind apointed. As the One twentieth part of Prize Money alloted for the commander in chief by the Regulations of Congress concerning the distribution of Prizes, was under the Idea of such an Officer being at the head of the Fleet; but as at present there is no such Officer, It is our determination that the Said twentieth part be distributed Amongst the Officers and Crews of the Ships at large, which you will please to make known to the Agents in your department. We Shall Shortly send you a supply of money and are Gen tlemen, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 This news from John Burroughs Hopkins was brought to Congress by Capt. Richard Palmes. For the consequences of Palmes’ unauthorized trip to Philadelphia, see Massachu setts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, April 26, 1779, note 2. 2 The Marine Committee also sent these same directions for the Confederacy, and captains Dudley Saltonstall and Seth Harding, with the following introduction from a letter of this date to John Deshon, Connecticut’s member on the Eastern Navy Board: “By a letter from your Board this day we are informed of your being now in Connecticut. We think proper to make you acquainted with a Paragraph of our letter of this day to your Board and desire you will take such measures as you may think will tend to despatch the business to which it relates .... ” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:69.
