April 29, 1779 403 fisheries, see Gouverneur Morris’ Proposed Resolutions, March 22; North Carolina Dele gates to the South Carolina Delegates, April 2; and Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, May 8, 1779. 3 Although Adams clearly continued to confide in Cooper, the Boston minister had appar ently already broken with Adams. According to the reports of Joseph de Valnais, the French consul in Boston, to Jean Holker in Philadelphia, Cooper was working not only to promote French interests but even to undermine Adams’ reputation. As Valnais explained to Holker on June 3, 1779: “le Dr Cooper travaille a aneantir le credit de M S Adams dans cet Etat 554. 552. Il a meme deja reussi a le perdre dans L’esprit de plusieurs personnes de la plus haute consequence, qui meme sont ses meilleurs amis & ses seul Suports.” A number of Valnais’ letters to Holker, including this one of June 3, which is partially in a code that has been deciphered by Holker, are in the Jean Holker Papers, DLC. John Fell’s Diary Thursday Api 29th [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. The chief of this day spent in consideration on the Subject of Finance, and to Tax largely. P.M. Thunder, Lightening, Hail and Rain. Went to Marine Committee No Members. MS (DLC). Frederick Frelinghuysen to the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly Sir, Trenton, April 29th, 1779. Agreeable to the appointment of the Legislature, I repaired to Philadel phia in the month of January last, and have since that time attended Congress, until the public business entrusted to my care in the county of Somerset rendered my absence unavoidable. It is needless for me to remind the honorable Legislature, that I did with great reluctance accept of the appointment of a delegate for this state in Congress. I was then sufficiently sensible that the trust was too impor tant for my years and abilities. I am now fully convinced that I should do injustice to my country did I not decline that service. In doing this, I am conscious to myself that I am actuated merely by motives for the public good, well knowing that whatever may be my abilities, they will be useless to the state in the supreme council of the Nation, and that the other appointments with which the Legislature of New Jersey have been pleased to honor me in the county of Somerset, are more than sufficient to employ my whole attention. I might add some other circumstances which render my situation there peculiarly disagreeable, but I fear the evils which might arise from my opening myself on this subject, would more than counterbalance any good
