April 29, 1779 405 Motions were made for filling the blank 1st with fifteen, 2d Eighteen, 3d Thirty. The question to be put on the highest Sum. I rose & said Sir, the largest Sum is to be put to question first, it is a very large Sum—I perceive I have no Colleague present & I think it necessary to consult my Colleague before I give my voice for taxing my Constituents so heavily as their quota of 30 [Millions] will be. I will not take an advantage of my Colleague by calling for the Yeas & Nays in his absence. I shall therefore move in right of a State for postponing the determination of this question, unless the House will agree to postpone the question more generally. (^Having seen my Colleague a little time before take his Hat & Cane, I apprehended he had gone home, but it appeared he was only in the Library Room—where he presently informed by J.P. 2 of what had passed—he came in & sat by me, I repeated what I had said—he replyed I leave that matter entirely to you, & shall aquiesce in whatever you determine, you know I dont understand these matters so well as you do— then retired again to the Library. I rose again & addressed the Chair, Sir, I have had some conference with my Colleague on the business before us, he is pleased to do me the honor of leaving the matter wholly to me, & as it is a subject of great importance, & the transaction devolved upon my self, I find it incumbent on me to deliberate & to take time for reflection, more especially when I consider the present circumstances of my Country. I could for these reasons wish the further consideration of this article may be postponed—it is near our time for adjourning, we may fill up the remainder by reading Public Letters & giving away a few Millions under the Reports of the Board of Treasury. The consideration Postponed, & the House Adjourned. 3 MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Henry Laurens, and endorsed by him: “Minutes on the Motion for Taxing the States 15, 18, or 30 Millions Dollars. “Vide Report of Board of Treasury, Art. No. 4. “Vide additional Note 19th May within.” Tr (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 22). In the hand of James Custer and endorsed by him: “Anecdotes on Mr. Drayton’s manners on questions for Taxation. Apr. 29.” 1 The treasury committee report containing the recommendations embodied in this pro posed resolve is printed in the journals under the date April 22, 1779, JCC, 13:493. In Laurens’ copy of these notes of debates, reference to this report is found in the following interlined note that he keyed to the beginning of the entry: “See overleaf the introduction taken from the Treasury Report.” 2 John Penn. 3 See JCC, 14:533. For additional notes on this subject, see Laurens’ Notes of Debates, May 19, 1779. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Sir, Philada. April 29th. 1779 As the Books & Papers of the Comtee. of foreign affairs remain on the Table of Congress to be used in the public Deliberations which still con-
