April 30, 1779 409 information upon the Motion made on Monday the 26th Inst, by the Honorable Mr. Paca, which had been under debate near two Hours when adjournment was called for & carried, what did we adjourn from?—surely from prosecuting the business then before us to another day, the day is now arrived, we must resume the consideration of that business.” The President acquiesed—Remarks were then made on the impropriety of the conduct of the Gentlemen who had now produced information from Mr. Gerard on a certain point, while a question was pending, whether such information should be applied for? N.B. Mr. Paca’s motion was made on the 26th. 3 the House adjourned that day at ’/2 p. 4 P M. Mr. Gerard went out of Town at 9 oC. A M the 27th. The information therefore which Mr. Drayton and Mr. Paca had ob tained from Mr. Gerard must have been delivered them between */2 p 4 Monday afternoon & 9. Tuesday Morning. The Gentlemen, when they heard Mr. Laurens call for the adjourn’d motion on the 26th Moved for leave to withdraw the said adjourned motion, the House in general consented. Mr. Laurens objected & called for the Yeas & Nays. The President said, as not one whole State objected, the motion might be withdrawn, Mr. Laurens denied the doctrine, he said it could not be determined who objected until the House should be called over, that he had an indubitable right to the Yeas & Nays, which would bring the motion on the Book & that such measures, such extraordinary measures ought to appear to our Constituents. Mr. President made some little objection to the right of Yeas & Nays. Mr. Laurens, who was by no means surprized at the President’s leanings, appealed to the Rules, & said nothing less than violence could deprive him of his right & that he trusted there would be no appearance of violence in that House. Mr. Duane rose & delivered a soft intriguing address, talked of leaving Congress, not be cause such infamous measures had been adopted & pursued respecting the application to the French Minister, but because, such measures were likely to be properly held up to public view. Mr. Laurens said since he saw Gentlemen were distressed, he was inclined to be good natured & would not insist upon the Yeas & Nays. The question was then simply put for leave to withdraw; Mr. Drayton’s voice was heard in a Bravado, No. his sincerity may be determined by his first opinion for withdrawing & by the President’s declaration that there was not one whole state against it. The Motion was withdrawn—a true Copy of it is however preserved, & accom panies this Memoire; Mr. Drayton who has been a very principal actor in these illicit practices with the french Minister. 4 MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 31). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 See the following entry. 2 As resolved on April 28. JCC, 14:532. 3 See Laurens’ Notes of Debates, April 26, 1779. 4 Laurens’ notes end abruptly at mid-page.
