April 30, 1779 411 was ready to put to Sea—that the said Commissioner, by his conduct on several occasions, created the highest disgust in the Court of Versailles against him—that the Court of Madrid, in the closest connection with that of Versailles, entertained the same sentiments respecting the said Commis sioner, not only on account of his conduct on those occasions, but, because of his imprudent conduct in Spain—and, in a word, the Minister Plenipo tentiary expressly declared, that he has every reason to think, that neither of those courts have that confidence in the said Commissioner, which, is necessary to give success to the Negociations of a Foreign Minister. The undersigned having received such decisive information from the Minister of France, with liberty to communicate it to Congress, think it is their indispensable duty to the United States, & to themselves, to lay the same explicitly before this the Supreme Council of America; to the end, that they may not be misled to continue the said Commissioner as the Representative of these United-States at a Court, in the highest manner disgusted at his conduct, & at which, of consequence, his Negociations must be unsuccessful. But, if, unfortunately, it shall be disregarded, they will have the consolation to reflect, that in giving this information, they discharged their duty to the United-States; & that having given it, they cannot justly be held responsable for the consequences of a measure, but too likely to prove unconciliatory abroad, ruinous to the Public Finances at home, & an impediment to a speedy & honorable Pacification, secur ing the Independence of the United-States of North-America. 3 Wm. Paca Wm. Hy. Drayton MS (DLC: Peter Force Collection). Written by Paca and signed by Paca and Drayton. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “No. 38. Information of Mr Paca & Mr W H Drayton respecting Mr Arthr. Lee laid on the table & read April 30th. 1779.” 1 See Henry Laurens’ Notes Respecting Gerard’s Views, April 21? 1779. See also Thomas Burke’s Statement Respecting Gerard’s Views, April 16?; and Laurens’ Notes of Debates, April 26 and 30, 1779. 2 See Meng, Gerard Despatches, p. 358. Vergennes’ letter to Gerard was actually dated October 26, 1778. 3 For Gerard’s May 4 report to Vergennes on the congressional debate over Arthur Lee’s removal, see ibid., pp. 615-17. On August 8, 1779, after learning that James Lovell had sent a copy of this Paca-Drayton report to Arthur Lee, Gerard also sent a copy of it to Vergennes. Ibid., pp. 844-45. That document, in Drayton’s hand, is in Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, Supplement, 1:276-77, Archives du ministere des affaires etrangeres. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen April 30th 1779 In our letter of the 27th instant which went by Post we directed you to purchase the Prize Ship Jason provided on being Surveyed she was found to be A Suitable for our Navy. Should you purchase her it is our determi nation that you give the command to John Peck Rathbourne and we will
