412 April 30, 1779 send from this place a Lieutenant to go on board her. The Sloop we some time ago mentioned to be ladeing with flour for the use of your depart ment will Sail this day—the Navy Board will write you respecting her Cargo. It is necessary to inform you that She has been purchased to carry this Flour—After her arrival you will dispose of her as you shall think will be most conducive to the Public Interest. We are Gentlemen, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Thomas Burke to Henry Laurens Sir [April ? 1779] 1 In a letter from a Mr Brakenridge to Mr Drayton, 2 I find my name mentioned as one Reported to have Some Interest in a Commercial Con cern with Mr Deane the design and tendency whereof is supposed to be Injurious to the political Interests of America and that the Report Origi nated from you. 3 This last Circumstance, only, makes it of Consequence enough to engage my attention, for, so far as the public are Concerned in my Transactions, the Evidence relating them is clear and unequivocal, and easily to be found and I am at all times ready to Commit my self thereon to my Immediate Constituents to whom only I hold my self Judi cially accountable, And as to my private acquaintance they know me too well to admit such a report to a ready Belief, at least without an Enquiry, for the Result of which I am under no Apprehensions. But while such a Report is Circulated under the Sanction of your Name, it becomes of Serious importance and I feel myself under an Indispensable Necessity of asking you whether You have expressed at any time an opinion, Conjec ture or declaration which may have given rise to it? If you have, Sir, I doubt not it was founded on Information which you thought good, or on Some Circumstances which fell under your own observation, and which you thought Sufficient to Justifie the Conclusion—in either case, I must Request you to make known to me that on which the Idea was founded if Such you ever entertained. But if the fact be that you never entertained or expressed Such an Idea I hope you will think a plain declaration thereof a Satisfaction which you ought to give, and which I am Justly entitled to require. (One or other of the answers I have ask’dfor is Necessary to direct my mind in the Investigation and refutation of this Injurious Calumny, for so directly Contrary to Such Connections has the whole tenor of my Life been that I can fix on no Incident which could have given the least color for it, and it is almost incredible to me that you who have long been witness to my public Conduct Should entertain Ideas so very repugnant to its uniform tenor.) 4 I am persuaded you will not decline it—and
