May 1, 1779 413 I Request your answer with all Convenient dispatch, with due respect, Sir, Your Obed Sev. FC (Nc-Ar: Burke Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke and endorsed by him: “Copy of Letter to Mr Lawrens with his answer relative to report Suggested in Lettr from Mr Braken- ridge to Mr Drayton.” 1 The dating of this document is conjectural, but it appears to fall within the context of the Arthur Lee recall debate reflecting particularly the efforts of Lee’s supporters to discredit the pro-Deane faction by insinuating that its members were influenced by their financial connec tions with Deane. As former delegate Charles Carroll of Carrollton later observed to William Carmichael in a letter of May 31, 1779, “The faction of the Lees is industriously propagat ing, as I hear, that their opponents, or most of them, are engaged in mercantile connections with Dean & others.” General Manuscripts Collection, NjP. For the debate on the recall of the American commissioners in Europe, which actually came to a focus on Arthur Lee on April 26 and 30 and May 3, 1779, see John Fell’s Diary, April 6, 1779, note 2. 2 Apparently Hugh Henry Brackenridge (1748-1816) and William Henry Drayton. 3 Burke originally opened this letter with the following sentence before beginning afresh. “I have Seen a letter from a Mr Brakenridge to Mr Drayton wherein A Mr Snowdan is quoted as having given you as the author of Certain Charges against Some Gentlemen of Congress.” 4 This passage is marked “dele” in the margin. James Duane to Philip Schuyler My Dear Sir, Philad. 1st May 1779. You may wish to know the Proceedings on your last Letter respecting your determination to resign. 1 They were concise. The President read your Letter among the other dispatches. I had not then mine from you on the same Subject: nor was I in Congress. Indeed not a member was ap prized of it. On reading your Letter a motion was made to comply with your Request: It was seconded and passed without a single Remark or Dissent. Thus you have your wishes. I feel a strong temptation to expostu late with you on this Subject—but what End will it answer? My Views & Expectations which were honourable for yourself and important to my Country are disappointed: and I own, & feel, the Superiority of the Planet which governs you over my feeble Star. Here let it rest. It gives me, however, great Consolation that you can still be highly serviceable to your Country, even with respect to military Operations: and eminently so in the Cabinet: In the military by advice and private Exertions; In Council, by taking your Seat in this House to which you can now have no Objec tion. To retire to private Life, before the War is terminated, you cannot reconcile to your Reputation, or to your Feelings. It is needless to enlarge on a point so evident; & of which you are so good a Judge! You know my Opinion of the necessity of appointing Commissioners in our State for managing our Affairs with the Six Nations: and securing Satisfaction for the Injuries we have suffered by their unpro[vo]ked Dep redations. No other Way can be devised to awe them into Peace & justice; Than after having convincd them of our Superiority, to insist on a Cession
