416 May 2, 1779 I have sent Mrs. Darnall by Mr Ridout Two small Pots of Dentrifice. Doctr Baker had not any brushes. With my respectful Compliments to her, I am, Dear Sir, Your most Obedt Servt Daniel of St. Thos Jenifer. RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son, Philadelphia 2d May 1779. I think I writ to you by a late public Messenger under the 27th Ulto. altho my Book gives no proof of it. 1 Mr. Gerard & Don Juan are on a visit at Middlebrook, 2 my worthy friend the former Gentleman, has been ensnared by certain Men, into such Acts & concurrences as will hereafter appear blots in his administra tion—I am exceedingly greived by such conduct. You know I mention such things in perfect confidence to yourself & Mr. Gervais. General Washington writes that the Enemy had made a descent upon the Jerseys with a view of surprizing some of our outposts & of plundering; in the former they failed & upon the whole had made a poor adventure. North River remains yet unprovided with Cannon, how shall I account for the quietness of the New York Delegates on this occasion? Is not North River the Door leading to those parts of that State which the Enemy are not yet possessed of & will not the complete possession of those parts give them the whole of the State of Rhode Island & endanger Connecticut? What said Hamlet? I do not like appearances—a Great Man in a late conversation which he had obtruded on me very improperly & which it did not become me to understand, & so I intimated to him, dropped a menace which shocked me—“we have had & may yet obtain better terms from Great Britain.” “Therefore you should be moderate in your demands”—& now the strife is for turning out an honest faithfal Servant, merely for being possessed of those bad qualities of honesty & fidelity & to put in a supple Jack. We want Men of Spirit & inflexible honesty here. Some very honest worthy Men we have, but they are not of the temper which is necessary for stemming a torrent of cunning artful misrepresentations. I act such a part as tends in some degree to disappoint or procrastinate evil purposes, to mortify the schemers, without exposing my conduct to any thing more than their teeth outward censure. They see & are convinced that I am of no set-party, & that I have no projects in view for aggrandizing or bene fiting myself. I speak plain truth & feel no inclination to deviate to the right or to the left for the purpose of gaining applause from any Man or set of Men—one set are now convinced that I am neither to be wheedled nor frighted into their measures & yet I vote with them as often as they appear to be right.
