May 3, 1779 421 but two days at Nantes & leave the Candid to Judge whether he could in the temper of mind, he then was, speak in the manner he is represented to have done. Wm. Carmichael MS (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). In the hand of William Carmichael. Endorsed: “(Dupli cate).” Tr (MH-H: bMS Am 811.5). MS damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Carmichael submitted this statement to Congress in the course of a debate on the issue of Arthur Lee’s recall. Charles Thomson’s journal entry recording the submission of this docu ment essentially paraphrases Carmichael’s opening paragraph. JCC, 14:542. 2 Caron de Beaumarchais, Jacques Donatien Leray de Chaumont, Ferdinand Grand, and George Grand. 3 It is not clear to what Carmichael is here referring. The only documents submitted with this statement that have been positively identified are letters to him by Henry Newman of April 9 and by Samuel Nicholson of May 2, 1779, which are in the Lee Papers, MH-H. The latter is a copy in Carmichael’s hand; both bear Charles Thomson’s endorsement: “Inclosed in Mr Carmichaels information delivered in May 3. 1779.” They are printed in Deane, Papers (NYHS Colls.), 21:446-48. 4 Edward Bancroft, James Moylan, John Ross, Jonathan Williams, and Capts. John Paul Jones and Samuel Nicholson. Moylan and Ross were the commercial agents at L’Orient and Nantes, respectively. 5 See note 3 above. For another document concerning Lee that was submitted during this day’s debate, which described him as “une espece de fol [a sort of madman],” see also James Lovell to James Warren, August 13, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Monday May 3d [1779]. Commercial Committee. Congress. The Business of this day intirely taken up till 5 o Clock, on the Question of Recalling Mr A. Lee, 1 4 Yeas 4 Noes 4 States Divided. (Dined wth President Reed). NB. For his Recall 22 Yeas. Nays 14. R. H. Lee Excused, Mr. Plater absent & Mr McKean. MS (DLC). 1 According to the journals, Congress dispatched a considerable amount of business before returning to the debate on Arthur Lee’s recall. JCC, 14:539-42. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia May the 3d. 1779 Always attentive to your commands, I have obtained here, and now inclose you the song and the receipt you desired. I once had both of them at home, but they are mislaid among a mass of papers, so that I could find neither previous to my leaving Chantilly, or your request would then have been complied with. I hope you have received the pamphlet I sent you some weeks ago entitled “Observations on the American revolution” con taining a collection of the most material congress papers with a few re marks interspersed, in order to shew in one comprehensive view the pro gress of our glorious revolution, and to rectify some false representations of
