424 May 3, 1779 The Undersigned trust that Congress will never give to any one of the United States just occasion to tax them with partiality, sincerely wish that their Union may be perpetual, and are with the greatest Respect, Yr Excellency’s most obedt. humble Servts. William Ellery John Collins RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Ellery, and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 For the background of the Rhode Island delegates’ effort to secure Continental support for 1,500 additional troops in Rhode Island, see Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene April 13, 1779. ’ 2 The Rhode Island delegates’ bold ploy proved successful. The following day Congress adopted their proposal for raising a brigade of 1,500 men in Rhode Island at Continental expense. See JCC, 14:539-40, 546-48; and Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, May Thomas Burke to Timothy Matlack $’ r State House May 4th 1779 A paper purporting, Instructions from the honorable President and Council of the State of Pennsylvania, to their Delegates in Congress, Stat ing Some supposed Grievances in their Line of Officers in the army of the United States, was referred to a Committee, of which the Chief Justice of Pennsylvania was a member. Upon his declining, or discontinuing his attendance in Congress some time past, the papers which were in his possession, have been mislaid; and among them that above referred to, we have for some time delayed reporting in hope of recovering the papers, that hope is now entirely lost, 1 and I am under the Necessity of applying to you for a Copy of the Essential paper here described. I request you Sir to transmit me a Copy as soon as Convenient. 2 I am Sir with due respect, your Obt Servant Tho Burke RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 1 Thomas McKean, Samuel Atlee, and Burke had been appointed on December 29, 1778, “to enquire into the state of the Pennsylvania troops, and report whether an additional brigadier is wanting for the troops of that State.” JCC, 12:1260. Because of the demands of his judicial duties, Chief Justice McKean had attended Congress irregularly. His votes in January and February indicate active participation in congressional affairs, but he appears to have been absent from Congress from approximately February 25 to June 10, other than for his surprise appearance on April 22 to vote against the recall of Benjamin Franklin from Pans. McKean apparently resigned his place on the committee sometime in February, but not until he had become involved in its deliberations. See JCC, 13:248-49, 14:499-500, 718. In January, meanwhile, Joseph Reed and the Pennsylvania Council renewed the long standing dispute over the rank and seniority of the Pennsylvania officers in the Continental line. In a letter of the 20th to the Pennsylvania delegates, Reed accused Congress of favoring officers of other states and acting “arbitrarily in cases of promotion,” especially in its prefer ential treatment of Benedict Arnold over John Armstrong, Sr., and Arthur St. Clair. In an accompanying set of resolutions entitled “State of the General Officers of Pennsylvania,” the council further addressed itself to the cases of Anthony Wayne, Robert Magaw, William Irvine, and Edward Hand and instructed their delegates to support Pennsylvania’s interests with their “whole weight and influence” whenever debate over new brigadiers for the Con-
