May 6, 1779 435 any other Gentleman on behalf of Mr. Deane that he would not depart from America until further Orders from Congress, would secure my Vote for the Recal of Mr. Lee, but the president, interrupted me by informing the House, that Mr. Burke had withdrawn his Motion. These are simple facts. Men of Candor & in the least acquainted with the proceedings of popular Assemblies will require no Comment from me. Such Men will instantly draw proper conclusions & will not wonder that I refused to join in a persecution. Henry Laurens. MS (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). In the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed by him: “for Lieutt. Colo. John Laurens’ information & at his disposal except publication, So Carolina.” 1 According to the journals, Smith had called for the yeas and nays “On the question, shall Mr. A. Lee be recalled” on May 3. The “preceding day,” on which he had pressed for Lee’s recall, cannot be determined. The May 3 vote on Lee’s recall was printed essentially as it appears in the journals in the May 6 issue of Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet with the follow ing unsigned statement: “As the following state of Votes on an important question may gratify the curious, I send it to you for publication.” See JCC, 14:542-43. Congress did not sit on May 6, 1779, a “Fast Day.” 2 The day in question here cannot be determined, but for Laurens’ assertion that he thrice proposed to support Lee’s recall provided Silas Deane were ordered to remain in America, see the first entry of his notes of debates for May 8, 1779, below. 3 As the vote to recall Lee was taken May 3 and no evidence has been found to indicate that Congress returned to the issue on the fourth, Laurens must be in error on this date. Gouverneur Morris to Thomas Johnson Sir, Phila. 6th May 1779. I am to request of your Excellency that all the Flour in your State except 5000 Barrills may be delivered to the Order of the Commissary Genl, to be forwarded on for the Use of the Army. It will be most proper that such as lies nearest to the Head of Elk should be applied to this Purpose. The late Movements of the Enemy requiring a considerable Aid from the Militia will increase greatly our Expenditures. I have the Honor to be most respectfully, your Excellency’s most obedt. & humble Servant, Gouv Morris RC (MdAA: Red Books). Virginia Delegates to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia May the 6th 1779 The inclosed letter 1 being referred by Congress to the Virginia Dele gates we have judged it proper to request of you that you will be pleased to assist us with your advice upon the occasion. We see this business involved in circumstances of such a nature as to create much difficulty and embarrassment. On the one side is presented
