436 May 6, 1779 Colo. Spotswoods merit as an Officer, his seniority of service, the peculiar situation under which he resigned, and that resignation not accepted by Congress 2 —On the other hand we see a probable discontent in the army, arguments drawn from his resignation, and the measures consequent thereupon such as the Office he held being filled by another, and the new arrangement having passed him by unnoticed. In this state of things we are puzzled to know what report to make. We could wish earnestly to do justice to Colo. Spotswoods merit and his claims, whilst in doing so, we are unable to foresee the consequent ill effects that may be produced by it in the army from dissatisfied ideas of injured rank. Whether an adequate provision may not be made for him from the circumstance of the new Levies of Virginia (going Southward) which will amount to about 2000 men, we cannot be certain. We have understood from Colo. Spotswood what when that service was over, if any rank given him there should create dissatisfaction in the army, that he would be willing to resign, after having had that opportunity of distinguishing his zeal for the service of his country. But how this can be done, unless by his being created a Brigadier is the question, and what effect this may have on the arrangement and in the sentiments of the army we are greatly at a loss to judge. We wish exceedingly to be favored with your sentiments on this subject, for which we shall be much obliged. 3 We have the honor to be with very particular esteem and regard, Sir your most obedient and most humble servants, Meriwether Smith Richard Henry Lee Cyrus Griffin Wm. Fleming RC (DLG: Washington Papers). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Fleming, Griffin, and Smith. 1 Col. Alexander Spotswood’s April 29 letter and memorial to Congress, which were referred to the delegates on May 4, are not in the Washington Papers or PCC. See JCC, 14:544. 2 Spotswood had resigned his commission in early October 1777, a few days after the battle of Germantown, and Washington had accepted it. Although Congress subsequently declared its opposition to Spotswood’s resignation, the Virginia colonel left the Continental service. See JCC, 9:981; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:64-66. 3 Spotswood had begun to make efforts to obtain reinstatement in the army in the sum mer of 1778. See Spotswood to Washington, July 16 and August 23, 1778, in the Washington papers, DLC; and Washington to Richard Henry Lee and to Spotswood, August 9 and 11, 1778, respectively, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 12:306-7, 315-16. In his May 13’ 1779, reply to the Virginia delegates, Washington advised against reinstating Spotswood and appointing him a brigadier because “it would be considered an Act of injustice by the Army at large and particularly so by the Virginia line.” Ibid., 15:64-66. John Fell’s Diary Friday 7th May [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. A Number of Letters and Memori als & another Petition from Bermuda, for Bread, after long Debate agreed
