May 10, 1779 445 former instance—“it may be so,” being asked two days ago by a Gentle man, “Are we likely to have peace soon, tis so whispered abroad.” I replied turn up a ha’penny and call head or tail—’tis indeed whispered that we shall very soon have terms of Peace tendered to us, probably we shall be told to morrow the Enemy is making the most vigorous exertions for prosecuting the War against us and so it precisely happened. I have ever thought it would be a mark of wisdom on our part to meet offers of peace with full Battalions but unhappily my Country Men, if I may judge from their practices have been of a different opinion, a days amusement by the sound of Treaty and peace Stagnates for a Month all Battalions progress. The present intimitation of our Enemy’s design to persevere in the War may have a good effect, although I have suspicions of its being calculated for the purpose of a day—a day or two more will remove or confirm the jealousy. I am exceedingly concerned for the particular distresses of my native Country. I had done every thing in my power for averting, and am using all my feeble endeavors for removing them, I lament the little success I have hitherto had in either case. America virtue is become torpid. I do not think it quite dead. I believe there are virtuous Men among us but too many of them are in the Disguise of Traders and Speculators flattering themselves in errors which threaten to bring us as a Nation into great disgrace. I have the honor to be &c, H L LB (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 16). 'Jacob Read (1752-1816), a South Carolina lawyer who was later elected to Congress and attended in 1783-85. DAB. 2 Read’s July 16, 1778, letter is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 3 Dr. William Read, for whom see Laurens to William Read, September 15, 1778, and February 9, 1779. John Armstrong to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia 10th May 1779 Necessarily as now you must be led to consider on the One hand, the various distributions of your Army, I mean the Seneca or Northern Expe dition—Some force at Fort Pitt, together wth the representation of Gover nor Green on behalf of the Providence Plantations & adjacent Country which Stands exposed to the contrasted force of the Enemy at Rhode Island—And on the Other, the intelligence of Mr. Gerrard respecting the return of the Count De Estaing to our Coasts, with a resolution of this day, throwing into your hands entirely & afresh the military Operations of the Opening Campaign, to vary or even recind former determinations at pleasure, a Step this, however honorary & confidential it may be, that must in present Circumstances inevitably embarrass yr. Excellency. In deed Sir I conceive that at best you have only a choice of difficulties, but
