May 10, 1779 447 Destination of this armament cannot be ascertained, but from its consist ing in part of Horse, and from other Circumstances, it is believ’d, to be designed against some of the Middle or Southern States. I therefore think it my Duty to give You the earliest Notice of this Advice, that in Case the Enemy bend their Course to our Bay or to Chesapeak, the Delaware State may be in preparation for defending itself or cooperating in the Common Cause. 1 I would be more particular on this subject, but that Congress has this Moment resolv’d to send Copies of the Dispatches to the Southward, and Mr. Jay assures Me You shall receive one. 2 Your Letter came to my Hands, but I have not been able to obtain any satisfactory Information, concerning the prisoners you mention. 3 Human ity & your Recommendation will powerfully induce Me to pay Attention to their Case, and I shall transmit to you the Result of my Enquiries & Applications. I mention’d Mr White’s Affair to Mr. Vandike 4, who tells Me, the papers are in Mr. McKean’s Hands. He is now on the Circuit. When he returns, I will endeavour to have that Business finish’d according to your Desire. The very important Business of the Quarter masters & Commissaries departments demands the most speedy & vigorous measures. You know, how much my sentiments correspond with your own on that Head, and I have the pleasure to inform You, that there appears in Congress a hearty Inclination to probe the Disease to the Bottom. For my part, I must say, that as I do not know a more effectual Way of rendering essential services to my Country, than by contributing my Assistance whatever it may be, to the Relief of these Evils, so, I shall industriously labour to perform my part of this great Duty. 5 I think You mention’d to me, before I left Kent, that You had some Thoughts of coming to Philadelphia this Month. I most earnestly wish You would and if possible, before the Meeting of our Assembly, which I understand, is to be on the 17th. If You cannot, I wish to receive the Sense of yourself and as many of the legislative Council & Assembly, as can be conveniently collected; as soon as possible, on a general Question, which may be of eminent Use to my Collegues & Myself in regulating our future Conduct. We have most momentous Business to transact. It may happen in managing the Affairs of so extensive a Confederacy, that particular states may be more interested in certain points than other States or than the Confederacy in general. My Opinion is clear, that the Interests of each State being Objects comprehended within the Confederation, are to be regarded as the Inter ests of the whole, & as such to be contended for and defended. [On] Interests of this kind, Difficulties, I apprehend, will not arise—but on Interests, beyond these Limits they may. On these, my Opinion is also clear, that as a Delegate I am bound to prefer the general Interests of the Confederacy to the partial Interests of Constituent Members, how many soever they be, & however respectable and meritorious; and further, that
