44 8 May 10, 1779 if ever such a Competition should arise, it is my Duty to prefer the par ticular Interests of the State that honours Me with her Confidence & invests Me with a share of her power, to the particular Interest of any other State on this Continent. I cannot be more particular on these very important Considerations, not being at Liberty to disclose the Subjects of Debate to which they may refer. But obviously just as my Determinations seem to Myself on the most mature Deliberation to be yet so strangely crooked do the plain Lines of sound Policy appear by passing thro some Mediums, that I should receive great satisfaction in finding Myself fortified in the Resolutions that will actuate my Conduct, by knowing that the sentiments leading Me to those Resolutions are approved by my Country. I am, Sir, with great Regard, your very hble Servt. John Dickinson [PS] Captain McClean’s Company is by a Resolution of Congress an nexed to the Delaware Battalion. RC (DLC: Rodney Papers). 1 For the destination of the British fleet, see William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, this date, note 3. 2 See John Jay to Patrick Henry, this date. See also Jay to Washington, May 15, 1779, note 2. 3 Governor Rodney had written to Dickinson on April 17 inquiring about the exchange of two Delaware officers imprisoned on Long Island. See Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 298-99. 4 Rodney also felt that the case of Thomas White, an alleged loyalist arrested by Gen. William Smallwood in March 1778 for “Correspondence with the Enemy,” deserved a hearing and asked Dickinson to “move Congress for that purpose.” On August 3, 1779, Congress ordered White discharged from his parole. See ibid., p. 298; JCC, 14:917- and these Letters, 9:336-37, 418, 520-22. 5 In his April 17 letter, Rodney had expressed grave concern that the “public are much injured” by the “management in the Quarter-Masters and Commissaries departments,” an issue that had long plagued Congress. John Fell’s Diary Monday 10th May [1779], Commercial Committee. Congress. This day a Letter was Read from Governor Livingston, and also the Memorials of the Officers of the State of New Jersey. Letter from Genl Washington with an Acct of Coll Van Scacks Expedition to the Onendagos also an Acct of the Imbarkation of 8 Regiments from N York and the Conferrence with the Commissioners for the Excha of Prisoners at Amboy, orderd to be Printed. Letter from the Minister, reccomending the finishing the appointment of a Minister to Spain &c &c. Expidition reccomended to Genl Washing ton. 1 A Letter from Mr De Franca and a long Memorial from Mr Beau- marsha (not finish’d). 2 Count DeEstang.
