452 May 10, 1779 Island. “You will receive herewith enclosed,” Hancock was informed, “a copy of an Act of Congress of the 11th Inst, by which You will perceive that Congress has directed the pay ment of a Bill drawn by Major General Gates; the amount of which is to be charged to You.” PCC, item 14, fols. 111-12. For the “Act of Congress” Jay enclosed with this note, which originated in a Board of Treasury report dated May 8, see JCC, 14:569, 570n.l. John Jay to Patrick Henry Sir, Philadelphia 10th May 1779. Herewith enclosed your Excellency will find a copy of an Act of Con gress of the 7th Inst, making further Provision for the defence of Georgia and South-Carolina, and particularly requesting that the new levies in Virginia may be furnished with the cloaths promised them by Law as speedily as possible; And if this cannot be immediately done that the State use it’s Influence to induce the men to proceed with satisfactory Assur ances that the Cloathing shall follow as soon as possible. 1 I also now transmit to your Excellency a copy of a Letter from General Washington containing Intelligence of an Embarkation of Troops at New York probably destined to some of the Southern States. As the Rescue of the convention-Troops may probably be their Object, Congress hope due attention will be paid to it, & You will be pleased to consider yourself at Liberty on the Appearance of danger to remove them further into the Country. 2 I have the honor to be, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s, Most Obedient Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See South Carolina Delegates to John Rutledge, May 7, 1779, note 1. 2 Washington’s May 7 letter to Congress contained extracts of two letters to him concern ing the embarkation and possible destination of from 4,000 to 7,000 British troops at New York. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:11-12. For the attack on Virginia carried out by these troops, see William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, this date, note 3. John Jay to William Livingston Sir, Philadelphia 10th May 1779 I have been honored with your favor of the 8th Inst—It has, with the memorial enclosed with it, been communicated to Congress, & gave Oc casion to a Resolution of which the enclosed is a copy. 1 Your Excellency will also find enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 5th Inst, for facilitating the Settlement of the late Commissary General Trumbull’s, & other public Accounts. 2 I have the Honor to be, With great Respect & Esteem, Your Excellen cy’s Most Obedt. & Hble Servant.
