May 11, 1779 455 own Judgment, or persuade you to make any further Communications of your Designs than necessity or high Expedience may dictate. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys most obt. Servt, John Jay. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). l JCC, 14:568. The French minister’s two letters to Congress of May 9 are in PCC, item 94, fols. 194-204; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:161-62. Gerard reported that he had just learned of the comte d’Estaing’s plans to return to the North American coast and wished accordingly to begin preparations for the arrival of the French fleet. Congress was evidently seeking to avoid direct involvement in planning for d’Estaing’s return and, al though Gerard had already discussed the subject with the general during a recent visit to his headquarters, wished Washington to understand that he was to take full responsibility for coordinating operations with the French forces. In a May 11 report to the comte de Ver gennes, Gerard discussed his hope that the return of the French fleet would renew American confidence in the alliance and improve his relations with the delegates. Meng, Gerard Des patches, pp. 634-35. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir May 11th—79 Mr. Hodgson forwarded to me your Letter of April. 1 I thank you for the Concern you express for my Health. It is a Blessing which I have less enjoyd the Winter past than in any equal Part of my Life—I hope by the Blessing of God to recover it when I may have the Pleasure of living in my own Country. We have had on the Carpet Questions relating to our Ministers abroad—Whether they should be recalled—It was agreed that the Ques tion be put severally with Respect to Each—A Majority of Voices were against the Recall of Doctor Franklin, though some Gentlemen spoke warmly aginst him—That for the Recall of Dr. Lee met with an equal Division & so it was lost. I will only remark to you that after long De bates, in which as great Freedoms, I suppose were used as could be consis tently with Decency and Truth; his Abilities, his Integrity & warm At tachment to America remain unimpeachable. It is unfortunate when Attempts are made to remove a Servant of the Publick, whose Fidelity shines the brighter, the more his Conduct is sifted, but so it will happen, when others wish to supplant him. I do not say this is the Case at pre sent—I hope there is no Motive more unworthy; but I will not answer for all among the Thousands in America, who may conceit themselves fit for important Trusts, and some of them may shortly offer themselves with a View of serving such Purposes as may not be agreable to others. I suspect from a Letter which I have heard publickly read 2 that our Friend J.A. is or will be as obnoxious to a Party as Dr F. & Dr Lee, and for the same Reason—But I will tell you all when I see you. Pray inform Mr. Story that his Petition is refered to the Treasury and that I expect it will have a
