May 11, 1779 457 1 This date has been assigned because Charles Carroll of Carrollton mentions Carmi chael’s letter in the context of papers he had received from Pennsylvania “by yesterday’s post,” and because Carmichael also wrote a letter to Thomas Johnson dated May 11, which was probably conveyed by the same post. 2 Apparently a slip of the pen, where “NY” was intended. 3 In his May 15 letter to his father in which this extract is found, Carroll explained that “the words underlined, are also underlined in his [Carmichael’s] letter.” 4 Carroll’s correspondence is a rich source for the study of Congress, not only because it contains references to a number of letters from Carmichael that do not survive, but also because it contains letters to Carmichael from Carroll, such as the following, discussing issues before Congress during this period from the perspective of a former delegate. “What you say about the army is truly alarming,” Carroll responded in a long letter of May 31. “A Subsidy from France would put a stop in some degree to these discontents, which I suppose arise principally from the badness of their pay—but a subsidy alone will not do I fear; the true Patriot’s scheme must be adopted at last: Taxation in the present urgency of the evil is too slow and languid a remedy. “Your talking of ultimatoms now, is somewhat out of season: is it not? I do not like the Mobbs you speak of, and for the reasons you quote from de Retz. These rapacious monopo lisers, and Engrossers, are a Detestable Race: they aggravate the miseries we experience. I wish laws could be devised to reach them, without occasioning as great or greater mischiefs. I can think of none that will be effectual, and not in other respects very exceptionable: the root of the evil lies in the quantity of money, and its depreciation arising from that, & other causes. “The ostensible motive of these Mobbs is the punishment of Monopolisers &c: what do you think to be the real one?” General Manuscripts Collection, NjP; and Bumett, Letters, 4:238-40. William Carmichael to Thomas Johnson Sir Philadelphia, May 11th 1779 I hoped we should have been able last week to have sent the further supply of money requested by Your Excellency in your Letter of the 30th Ulto. 1 We obtained the warrant for 800000 dollars on Wednesday last, but the State of the treasury is such, that altho’ we have been very impor tunate with the Treasurer it hath not been in his power to satisfy our demands. This week However we are promised the Money which shall be immediately forwarded to Your Excellency properly escorted. The ex tracts you did me the honor to inclose me enabled me to urge with the Board of Treasury the necessity of giving directions to the Treasurer to pay the warrant in favor of our State, in preference to many of a prior date, & silenced the clamors of some who alledged that the Commissioners imployed by the State to purchase, had raised the Price of flower. Inclosed is an extract of a Letter which contains some intelligence of the Enemies motions, necessary for Your Excellency to be informed of. 2 There is no doubt that they mean to prosecute The warr vigorously this campaighn. The Minister of France informed us of this circumstance a few days ago, with the Strongest assurances of the King his Masters intentions to sup port us at every hazard, and even in preference to every view of conquest
