May 11, 1779 459 pointed Commandant of the whole. A number of other Reports and ap pointments, in different departments read and agreed to. The Minister of France told the President, if Congress would write to the King, 2 for the Purpose, he would send Clothing, &c for the Army to be Paid for after a Peace, A Noble generous Offer. PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 For further information on Jean Theveneau de Francy’s May 7 letter and his long memorial on the claims of Caron de Beaumarchais, see JCC, 14:690-92; and John Jay to Benjamin Franklin, June 18, 1779. A copy of this “Memorial on Mr. Beaumarchais’s Af fairs” is in the Laurens Papers, no. 9, ScHi. 2 See John Jay to the King of France, July 10, 1779. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia May 11th, 1779. I have the honor of inclosing the Journals of congress for the month of Januy. last, and was in hopes to have been able, before this time, to have furnished the honble. court with the Journals weekly, but the several printers in this city have been very much engaged. By the best intelligence, from New York, I believe a fleet have sailed from thence, not many days since, with four or five thousand troops, whether to the West Indies, Rhode Island, or Georgia is uncertain, but I believe, it is most probable the latter. By a late expedition into a settlement of the Onondaga Indians, we have, I understand, destroyed one of their principal settlements, but not having the particulars before me, beg leave to refer you to the public prints. Last week congress received a letter signed by his most Christian maj esty, under the great seal of his state, informing his great & good allies (as he expresses it) the congress of the united states, of the birth of a princess, being his first issue, and congress has in a formal manner noticed the same. Congress having been informed, that such is the state of health of Gen eral Lincoln (not from the General) that it was become necessary, that he should be permitted to return from that hot climate, to the northward, so that his country, may not be deprived of his future services in a climate more agreeable to his constitution, And have given permission accord ingly. I have no further intelligences of a public nature worthy the attention of the honble. Board, that I am at liberty to communicate. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Sir, your most obedient servt. S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The honble. the president, of the council of Massa. Bay.”
