470 May 15, 1779 most distant Degree interpose in a matter to which you alone, from a thorough knowledge of all it’s Consequences, are competent. I am uncer tain whether a formal Act of Congress is necessary, I rather presume your Powers are adequate: but however this may be, from a Reluctance to embarrass you on any Occasion, I shoud not reconcile it to myself to take any Step to accomplish this transfer without having previously consulted you. If the Obstacles are important in your Opinion, I flatter myself that the State of which I am a Citizen will be contented, from the unreserved Confidence they Justly repose in your wisdom, Impartiality and attention to the general Interest, as well as from the lively Sense they entertain of your unwearied Exertions for their own more immediate Protection. 2 I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Respect and Affec tion, Sir, your Excellency’s most Obedient & very humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, January 4, 1779, note 4. 2 For the objections Washington expressed to such a transfer in his May 26 reply to Duane, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:157-58. John Jay to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia 15th April [i.e. May] 1779. 1 I have the Honor of transmitting to You Copies of two Acts of Con gress-One of the 17th March, 2 permitting You to return from the Com mand of the Southern Army—the other of the 13th Instant, appointing Brigadier General Moultrie Commander of it in your absence, and during it’s continuance to the Southward of North-Carolina. 3 I have the Honor to be Sir, With Respect and Esteem, And the best wishes for the Recovery of your health, Your most Obedient And Humble Servant, John Jay, President RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 In Jay’s letterbook, this letter is correctly dated “15 May 1779.” PCC, item 14, fol. 108. 2 That is, April. See Jay to Lincoln, April 17, 1779, note 1. Although Congress resolved on April 17 to relieve Lincoln, Jay failed to notify him officially of this fact until a successor had been named, for which see the following note. 3 Congress’ appointment of William Moultrie to succeed Lincoln was something of a compromise, for although there was support for appointing him to the southern command, his promotion to major general, a rank normally associated with command of a department of the army, prompted objections from states having brigadiers with seniority claims that conflicted with Moultrie’s. See JCC, 14:585-86.
