May 15, 1779 473 MS (DNA: PCC, item 89). In the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed by Charles Thom son: “Paper read by Mr Laurens in his place May 15. 1779. Ordered to be entered on the journal.” 1 Laurens’ delivery of this speech was actually an extension of the previous day’s debate on a motion by Meriwether Smith designed to embarrass Laurens. Smith had called attention to the recent publication in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette of a captured letter from Laurens to Georgia governor John Houstoun, and after asserting that it “contained matter derogatory to the honor of Congress” he moved “that the said letter be read, and that Mr. Laurens be called on to declare whether he wrote that letter.” Smith’s ploy had failed on the 14th on a point of order, but Laurens returned to the subject the following day by reading this speech immediately after the daily reading of the journal. See JCC, 14:588-93. For the August 27, 1778, letter from Laurens to Houstoun that was at issue, see these Letters, 10:509-11. 2 For the vote on Laurens’ request to have his address entered on the journal and the motion Meriwether Smith submitted in response to Laurens’ speech, see JCC, 14:593-95; and the following entry. Henry Laurens’ Speech in Congress Sir, [May 15? 1779] I have reserved to my self a right of Voting on this very extraordinary and unprecedented motion 1, not from any apprehensions of inconvenience to my self, because I am sure the contents of my Letter to Govr. Houston, are not only inoffensive but proper, and breath a Spirit of true patriotism and display a becoming Zeal and unshaken attachment to the Interests of these united States. I am confirmed in this opinion from declarations 2 which have been voluntarily made to me by several of the most respect able Characters in this House, that the Letter even as printed in Mr. Rivington’s Paper deserves the highest praise with the addition of their wishes that a Copy were sent to the Governor or President of each State. My apprehensions are for the honor & dignity of Congress. And my present objections amounting to a Protest against the motion are. Because, it is beneath the dignity of this House to pay attention to such Publications by Printers employed by the Enemy. Because, the Letter even as published by them contains nothing like Treason, or a design in the party said to be the writer to injure these States or any faithful Citizen of these States. Because, it would be dangerous and unprecedented to call upon any Member of this House to give up his private correspondencies—or to extort from him his private opinions. Dangerous, as it would be a direct attempt to deprive the Citizens of these States of that freedom & Liberty ever exercised in Great Britain from whence they have seperated in order to enjoy greater Liberties, and exercised in America even while she was under the dominion of Great Britain.
