May 15, 1779 475 6 Beside this paragraph, Laurens wrote the following passage in the margin: “in the same Paper Willing & involvg honor of Congress.” This is a reference to a letter from Robert Ross to Thomas Symonds, dated “Pensacola, March 27, 1779”—concerning “the conduct of James Willing, who . . . ravaged the British plantations on the Mississippi”—which was printed by Rivington in the Royal Gazette immediately following Laurens’ August 27, 1778, letter to John Houstoun. 7 In the margin: “disgust, many will be disgusted therefore dangerous.” 8 This last paragraph is in the hand of Moses Young. On the verso of this sheet only the following cryptic passage appears: “forgery WHD Sir JW.” For the next episode in this bitter controversy between Laurens and Smith, see Meriwether Smith’s Speech in Congress, May 18, 1779. William Paca to Benedict Arnold Dear Sir, May 15, 1779. As congress cannot possibly comply with your request, the committee can make no report, that will be of any service to you. You cannot have a copy of the report you refer to, nor of the letters which passed between the committees, because, on the late conference and accommodation between congress and the state of Pennsylvania, those proceedings are to cease, and not to be brought again into view or discussion. The whole of the evi dence, which relates to the charges on which you are to be tried, is trans mitted to general Washington, with the charges, and there is nothing kept back, which you could avail yourself of in your defence. 1 As to the resolu tions of the report acquitting you of particular charges, they were founded, you know, on ex parte hearing. The committee were obliged to finish the report, and as the executive council, from some difference be tween their committee and the committee of congress, would not produce the evidence in support of those charges, the committee took up the evi dence offered on your part, and passed the resolutions of acquittal; but the executive council and congress having settled the misunderstandings between the committees, and congress not having decided on the report, and the said executive council having offered to produce the evidence before a court martial, the resolutions of the committee can have no op eration whatever: when we therefore come to report on your late applica tion, we must report, that your appliction cannot be complied with. I am, sir, Your obedient humble servant, W. Paca. MS not found; reprinted from Proceedings of a General Court Martial. . .for the Trial of Major General Arnold, June 1, 1779 (Philadelphia: Francis Bailey, 1780), p. 54. 1 In a letter to Congress of April 26, 1779, Arnold had requested “Copies of all the Papers relative to the Charges against me,” on which he was to be tried by a court-martial that General Washington had been ordered to convene. His letter had been referred to a commit tee consisting of Paca, Thomas Burke, and James Duane, which rebuffed Arnold’s request for the reasons stated here by Paca. See JCC, 14:513; PCC, item 162, fols. 181-84; and John Jay to Washington, April 12, 1779.
