May 21, 1779 503 John Jay to Thomson Mason Sir, Philadelphia 21 May 1779 Your Favor of the 17th Inst, was delivered to me Yesterday morning— It contains the first authentic & most particular Account of the Enemy’s Operations in the Bay that Congress have yet received. 1 I am happy to hear that the Militia turn out with Spirit—God grant that by reaping Laurels they may be compensated for being obliged to neglect their other Crops. I have the honor to be Sir, your most Obedient And Humble Servant. JJay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 14:617. Mason’s May 17 letter to Jay, reporting the appearance of “forty Sail of the Enemy ... in Hampton Road on Sunday the 9th Instant” and their attack on Portsmouth the following day, is in PCC, item 78, 15:441-44. Thomson Mason (1735-85), the brother of George Mason of Gunston Hall, was a resident of Loudoun County, Va. He represented three different counties in the House of Burgesses in the course of a long career as a Virginia legislator. DAB. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia the 21st May 1779 My last I think was the 11th inst 1 since which I have not been favored with any of Yours. I have been some time in expectation of a Colleague to supply the place of Mr. Frost, who I suppose must have been at home some weeks. My Task is really arduous, but my anxiety to see a determi nation of some important matters now under consideration prevents my pressing a speedy relief. The State of the currency is truely deplorable, but not so alarming in my judgment as the failure of public Virtue, the former may possibly be assisted by human means, but we must depend on him who alone can control the hearts of men to establish the latter. We are now about trying once more what can be done to save the sinking credit of the money, the prevailing Opinion is that nothing will do but (I was going to say) excessive Taxes, but I will soften the epithet, & adopt the words very high if a sufficiency can be raised by Taxes to support the war, farther emissions will be unnecessary, this is part of the plan now under consideration, a consequent Resolution past this day to raise 45,000,000 to be paid in by the 1st of Jany. I must suspend giving you my Opinion of this measure for the present, let it suffice to say there was a great Majority in favor of the question, & but a small Majority against the Question for 60,000,000 this is a bold Political stroke, and I hope will be carried into effect, as to all appearance nothing else can save us from destruction, the People in this
