504 May 21, 1779 part of the Country are every where clamerous for heavy Taxes, the great est difficulty appears to me is, the levying it on the proper persons, if the whole sum could be drawn from those speculating miscreants, who have been sucking the Blood of their country, it would be a most happy circum stance and I hope the assessors will be particularly attentive to those people, He who increases in wealth in such times as the present, must be an enemy to his Country, be his pretentions what they may. If the Con necticut mode of collecting Taxes was adobted the business would be much facilitated; In that State five or six Taxes are collected in a Year by that means they collect very large sums without produceing the least uneasiness among the people. If the people are duely impress’d with the advantages they will derive from paying in their money while it is at the present low state they certainly will do it with chearfulness. Spirited mea sures with the Property of the fugitives, as well as with the persons of the resident, enemies to the Revolution, would in my humble Opinion have an exceeding good effect, at this particular Crisis. The Enemy seem determined to carry on a predatory war agreeable to the threats held up in the British Commissioners Proclamation last Sum mer. Their Conduct in Virginia is an evidence of this, for the particulars I must beg leave to refer you to the new papers. Time only can inform us of the events of the present Campaign, but this we may be assured of, that nothing is so likely to give us success as vigorous & decisive measures both in Council & in the Field. A Mr. Hamilton Govr of Detroit is taken prisoner (by Major Clark of Virginia) with his Garrison at a post he held on the Ohio, 2 this vipers nest has been exceedingly troublesome to our frontiers, Whether our troubles in that quarter will be soon ended, de pends on the success of the expedition into that Country under the Com mand of Genl Sullivan. Whether we shall have any naval assistance from our ally (depends in my judgment) on the Chapter of accidents but this is not the Opinion of many others; but Mum! I want every State in the Union to feel the importance of Sovereignty, & I wish the United States were fully sensible of their importance among the powers of the Earth; we should then under Heaven depend on our own strength, & banish from among us every Idea of servility, which now like the Tares among the wheat, prevents the growth of that virtuous republican pride so essential to the happiness of America. You have sev eral times mentioned to me the Flagg that was detained by order of Congress & as I know the importunity of the people must be very trouble some I heartily wish Congress could be prevailed on to decide on that matter but from various causes nothing has Yet been done ’tho several reports have been made & recommitted, on the whole I think it will be best for the executive authority of the State to act their own judgment in that matter. Mr. Emerson of Durham who was a Commissioner of accots. died here last week of the small pox after three or four days illness, 3 1 shall get what
