May 22, 1779 505 information I can of his affairs here, for the satisfaction of his Family, with whom I most heartily sympathize. I am very sincerely, Your Friend & Huml Sert, Wm. Whipple RC (MB: Chamberlain Collection). 1 Not found. 2 See William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, May 22, 1779, note 4. 3 Moses Emerson (1717-79) had been appointed a commissioner of accounts for the east ern district in February 1778. See JCC, 10:114, 14:670, 723, 15:1027, 1067, 1078; and Whipple to Ebenezer Thompson, July 19, 1779. John Armstrong, Sr. to Horatio Gates Dear General. Philadelphia 22d May 1779 In answer to your favour of the 27th Ulto, please to accept my thanks for that friendly & good letter, in which I must not Overlook your pious wish for the Wisdom &. Integrity of Congress. Neither Niagara nor Detroit are in contemplation, the Seneca Indians & their connexions whether Tories or others, are I presume the only present object of our Arms to the North. Genl. Sullivans movements & Operations will probably give the Enemy an Opportunity either to elude or by their Canadian Assistance to Over come him—we must hope the best, the Enterprise being absolutely neces sary, for with how much propriety soever Peace may be made with any other tribe who shall offer it, the arrogance & barbarous mischiefs of the former cannot be dispenced with, nor is retaliation the only thing in view, but the prevention of much greater evils than those already effected which we cannot doubt under the direction of Butler or some other person of note, our enemies have in immediate contemplation. Sullivan has asked of Congress two Extra Aids DeCamp for the Campaign, not yet granted nor ought they to be. 1 The Packet from France to which you alude brought us the news of the birth of a Princes of that Nation under the hand of the King! Shortly after, we received an intimation from the Minister of the intended or expected return of the Count DeEstaing to our Coasts for important pur poses, taking Georgia & South Carolina in his way. (Secrecy enjoined by Congress) latterly by a letter from Mr. Bingham an Agent at Martinique we have reason to doubt the coming of the Count. 2 1 wish I cou’d give you a more favourable relation of sudden & vigorous exertions in our House for recovering the expiring credit of our Money and in the dispatch of our foreign affairs, whereon depends the Political life of America. Sometimes our efforts point that way & promise a happy progress in the plainest path that ever pure necessity pointed out to man, but anon a diversion is made, new & impertinent matter thrown on the Anvil under Specious Colour ings tending at least to Such delay as may be fatal; thus like the Scale of the beam we rise & fall. The prices & rise of things here are truly allarm-
