506 May 22, 1779 ing. The virtuous Mob (25th May) 3 are now begining to appear & per haps may in some degree correct these errors which the inattention of Others have Suffered to grow to the present enormous heighth. Portsmouth & Suffolk in Virginia are laid in Ashes & some consider able loss of Publick & private Stores, Shiping &c must be Sustained at those Ports. The hostile Steps of the Enemy are Said to be marked rather with the barbarities & Cruelties, than the National & known rules of War. I am of Opinion they intend no long Stay where they now are, being under three thousand or perhaps under two in number, but will set out for the South, or attempt the Same business at Baltimore. The Soldiers on furlough and new recruits intended for the Southern Army joined to the Militia will we expect Soon drive them from Virginia. Dr. Brown is not yet returned to this place. I presume Major Armstrong has Shewn you a paragraph in my last to him by Mr. Newcome, in regard of your letter of Cristmas last to Mr. Jay. 4 I am dear General with every Cordial Wish, and Respectful Compli ments to yr Lady & Family, Your Affectionate friend & Humbe. Servt. John Armstrong. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Gen. John Sullivan’s May 20 letter to Congress requesting that he be allowed four aides “for the present Campaign,” which was read this day and referred to the Board of War, is in PCC, item 160, fols. 245-48; and Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 3:25. JCC, 14:626. 2 In his April 13 letter to the committee for foreign affairs, William Bingham had reported that d’Estaing had just received orders from France to remain in the West Indies. See PCC, item 90, fols. 77-86; and JCC, 14:579-80. 3 Although this passage indicates that Armstrong interrupted this letter and resumed writ ing it on May 25, it is not clear from the appearance of the manuscript at which precise point he had left off before resuming the writing. 4 Armstrong may have written to his son—Gates’ aide Maj. John Armstrong, Jr.—on the subject of a proposed expedition against Quebec, a subject close to Gates’ heart. Armstrong’s “last” letter to his son has not been found, but Gates’ draft of a letter on the subject of such an expedition, dated December 25, 1778, the only one of that date in the collection, is in the Gates Papers, NHi. John Fell’s Diary Saturday 22d May 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. Several Letters Read, and an affa- davit of Particulers relating to the Cruelty of the Enemy in Virginia &c. Memorial from the State of New York, relating to the seperation of the State of Vermont, Postponed the consideration till next Saturday. The order of the day on foreign affairs deferred till Tuesday on Account of a Long letter from the Seiur Gerrard. MS (DLC).
