512 May 22, 1779 alent from the enemy, as tending to encourage their obstinacy in refusing a general exchange on terms of fair equality, by which our captive Offi cers [suffer?]. We have no news here but what comes from Virginia. All good men are waiting with anxious expectation to hear that our Countrymen have given these wicked Invaders cause to repent of their undertaking. We have been told that Colo. Hamilton of Detroit is our prisoner, made so by the brave Colo. Clarke. I wish it may be true, and I hope the Prisoner will be well secured, because his enmity to us, his activity, and influence among the Indians, are equal, and all very great. My respects to Mr. Wythe and my other friends. I am dear Sir yours sincerely, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:270-71. 1 In his April 21 letter to Lee, Jefferson had strongly endorsed the exchange or parole of the baron de Geismar, a captain of the Hesse-Hanau regiment who was a Convention Army prisoner in Charlottesville, Va. Ibid., p. 255. Col. Theodorick Bland, who commanded the guard detail at Charlottesville, also wrote to George Washington on May 31 concerning an exchange (Washington Papers, DLC). Washington’s reply of June 28 and his recommenda tion of July 22 to the Board of War for exchange, but not parole, are in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:338-39, 459. 2 See John Fell’s Diary, February 20, 1779, note 1. Virginia Delegates to the Virginia House of Delegates Sir, Philadelphia May [22, 1779] Having [informed] Congress on the [20th] of our instruction from the honorable Assembly the 19th of December last touching a final ratifica tion of the confederacy, 1 our motion was followed the next day by the inclosed intemperate paper presented by the Delegates of Maryland to Congress and at their motion placed on the journal. 2 We have the honor to transmit this paper to you, that the Assembly may, if they judge it proper, direct a counter declaration to be prepared, which being placed on the same journal may prevent future arguments derived from a claim now set up [and] not now controverted. We observe that Connecticut has furnished her Delegates with instructions concerning the Confederacy 3 similar to those that we have received, and we hope that no State will be found to abet Maryland in her unreasonable claim. The declaration, to which the inclosed instructions allude having been some time ago pub lished, we thought it unnecessary [to] detain the Express for a copy at this [time], [We have the honor] to be Sir your most obedfient and very humble serv]ants, Meriwether Smith Richard Henry Lee Wm. Fleming
