May 23, 1779 515 they think it will be wise in you, to take the first favorable opportunity to resign, or rather ask leave to do so. I before mentioned and again repeat my earnest wish, for I think it indispensable that when you come you bring every material for making the fairest and fullest settlement of the expenditure of such pub. money as has passed thro you, or been entrusted to your care. It will by no means be proper for one of us to endeavor to shelter ourselves, as some bad men do, under a thousand delusive pretexts for not settling accounts and demonstrating the rectitude of our conduct. If you come, I suppose, that as you cross the Sea, having the necessary Materials, you may be digesting a complete state of all your transactions and your well supported ideas of {Deane}’s culpability. I {set off} this {day} to guard my {family} from the insults and cruelty of the enemy. Capt. Nicholson says that Williams bot for Dean a prize Brigantine that he captured, and that she came out loaded with private property with our fleet in spring 1777. Enquire about this & the manner in which Williams disposed of all the prizes committed to his disposal. RC (MH-H: Lee Papers). 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Lee in cipher. 2 At this point Lee wrote “419aXXVIII,” which in the Lee cipher indicates the word “welcome,” and was so employed just three lines above. Since “welcome” makes no sense in this context, it seems clear that Lee erred in his use of the cipher. The sentence appears to make the best sense if it is assumed that Lee had in mind “Gerard,” and therefore should have written “455.b.l.XIV,” which he did four times previously in this letter. For the cipher used by the Lees and the conjectural element involved in deciphering their correspondence, see these Letters, 9:654n.2. Maryland Delegates to George Washington Dear General Philadela. May 23d 1779. We had the Honor of a Letter from his Excellency the Governor of Maryland last night, by express, dated on the 20th Inst. 1 The Devastation and cruelties hourly committed by the Enemy in Virginia, and the prob ability of their acting the same part in Maryland, unless timely prevented, has justly alarmed the people of that State. We lament that the Army under the Command of your Excellency does not admit of a Detachment from the Maryland Troops. Were it possible to head the Malitia by a small Body of regular Troops, they would turn out with more alacrity and act with greater vigour thus incorporated, than alone. It may indeed happen, that the present views and progress of the Enemy may render any extensive preparations for Defence in Maryland unnecessary. But the De struction of Portsmouth and Suffolk joined to the Threats of the Enemy are sufficient to induce a belief in the minds of the Citizens of Annapolis and Baltimore, that their Cities are not safe unless defended by superior force. We have no accurate knowledge of the strength of your Army, nor any precise Ideas of your Excellencys present plans of operation, and
