May 24, 1779 517 sent to the Southward, when it was as forcibly opposed & asserted that the Enemy could not possibly mean to prolong the Campaign in the Southern States but by way of Diversion; this now, however, seems to be found erroneous. I told them, that perhaps a formal Application from the State with the notoriety of the necessity, might induce Congress to grant us the Aid. I likewise advised the application to Congress for Money 2 and in stanced the Sums granted to Pensylvania & So. Carolina, 3 and as our Militia are always carried out of their own State to Action, where our Curr[enc]y will not be reed, our Men with their pockets full of Money must starve for the little comforts of Life which are absolutely necessary in a Camp; therefore hope you will forcibly urge the grant of the Money, if they mean to protect this part of the Continent; if not, desire them to declare so, that we may know what ground we are on. “. . . . The Assembly have determined to fill their Continental Battal ions, tho I assured them it was my Wish never to s[ee a] Man sent from this State to the North of Virga, which they approve of, but are so sensible of the insufficiency of our Militia Exertions, that they deem the comple tion of their regular Regts, essential to the Salvation of the S. States—our Assembly & People are really zealous and determined in the cause, but many confess that Congress stands very low with them, particularly our speculative Gentry who met with heavy losses on the Business?] of the important Secret &c. 4. . . Messrs. Harnett & Penn were appointed Delegates this Session, 5 and expect Mr. Harnet will relieve you shortly. . . . The Assembly have allowed £5000 to their Delegates during the time they are in public Ser vice &c. 6 possibly, this may, for a short time, equal your Expences. Our Assembly has the Assistance of Mr. Johnsons Abilities, with a considerable number of new hands quite strangers to me; but I think public Business is not conducted with any greater degree of Brilliancy than heretofore; least ways the same Order is not preserved as Mr. Jay keeps up in the August Assembly of the Continent. . . . “I think to return to Philadelphia some time in the Fall tho perhaps not to Congress, indeed I could not, if inclined, till after another appoint ment, 7 on which shall not determine till I have the pleasure of seeing you. Inclosed you’ll receive Mr. Draytons Official Letter 8 to the Delegates of our State which you may perhaps have occasion of. “You’ll first and principally present my best respects to Mrs. & Miss Vining, Doctr. Bond & Col. Cadwalader and to Mr. President Jay, G. Morris, J. Duane, Carmical, Paca, Henry, Plaiter, Col. Atlee, M. Smith, Adams, Griffin, Penn, Drayton & Langworthy, to those Gentn. I wish Health & Happiness, to the residue of your honorable Body I sincerely wish better Hearts; to me they will no doubt repay the Complt. by wish ing me a better Head.” 9 RC (Nc-Ar: Thomas Burke Papers). The bulk of this letter is printed in the N.C. State Records, 14:1-4, without date. The complete text of that version is actually parts of two separate letters that were erroneously transcribed into Burke’s Executive Letter Book. As
