May 25, 1779 531 MS (MDaAr). 1 Holten’s letter to the Massachusetts Council is the following document; his letters to Joseph Hall and to his wife have not been found. 2 For information on the Philadelphia price protests, see Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Charles Carroll, and to Thomas Johnson, May 24, 1779. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia May 25th. 1779. I embrace the first opportunity of informing the Honble. Assembly of two (particular) resolutions of congress, that have passed since I had the honor of addressing you last, which are as follows. “Ordered, That upon application from the state of Massachusetts Bay a warrant issue on the treasurer in favour of Mr. John Lowell for eight hundred thousand dollars, the said state to be accountable, and to repay five hundred thousand dollars thereof to the commissioner of the continen tal loan office of the said state in the month of august next, with interest at six per cent, per annum, transmitting duplicate receipts to the board of treasury.” 1 “Resolved, That these united states be called upon, in addition to the sum required by a resolution of Congress of the 2d of January last, for their respective quotas of forty five million of dollars, to be paid into the continental treasury before the first day of January next.” 2 The last resolution, I expect will be sent you in a formal manner; I shall make no observations to shew the necessity of the said resolution, further than desiring the attention of the Honble. court to the state of our cur rency, which must really be alarming to every friend to his country, and I apprehend that it is become necessary, that the continental treasury should be supplied with money, as soon as possible, from the several states sufficient to pay the current expence, either by taxes or otherwise, so that the emissions may cease, or what may we expect from the increasing depretiation; Congress have assigned three days in a week to consider the state of our money & finances. I inclose the weekly Journals, &c, and have the honor to be with the highest sentiment of respect, sir, your most obedient servant. S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honble. The President of the council of Massa. Bay.” 1 This resolve, which is in JCC, 14:630, was sent officially to Pres. Jeremiah Powell under cover of the following brief letter of May 24 from John Jay. “You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 22nd Inst., with the papers referred to in it ” PCC, item 14, fol. 117. 2 Sec JCC, 14:626.
