534 May 25, 1779 prints) Since my Last. Congress have Come to a Resolution to Call on the united States for their Respective Quotas of forty five millions of Dollers to be paid in to the Continental Treasury by the first day of January next. A Committee is also appointed to draw up an address to send abroad to the people of these united States to Induce their Exertion to Supply the Con tinental Treasury for the necessary Expenditures without further Emis sions. 1 By Late accounts from the South about 2000 of the Enemy Landed Some time Since at Portsmouth in Virginia and have Committed Consid erable Ravages, and Continue therein without any Effectual resistance for what we have yet heard. I Inclose for your amusement, a Remarkable advertisement which was posted up in many places in this City Yesterday—the Cryer is also about the Streets this morning publishing the determination of the good people of this place to put the purport of the advertisement into Execution this afternoon; what will be the Event will probably be Soon discovered— There has been the most Soaring public Rise of prices in almost Every Vendable article within these few days, that was Ever before known. I am Sr. with great respect &, Esteam your obedient Humbe Servt. J. Spencer RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 The address “To the Inhabitants of the United States of America” on the subject of finance, which was drafted by John Dickinson, was read and recommitted by Congress this day. On May 26 Congress approved it and ordered 500 copies printed. JCC, 14:626, 643, 649-58. Committee for Indian Affairs Speech to the Delaware Indians [May 26, 1779] 1 Brothers. The Great Council of the united States of America have re- ceivd and considered the Representation made to them by you 2 the Depu ties of the Delaware Nation. 3 Open your Ears and listen to their Answer. The great Council are not unmindful of the several Treaties of Friend ship which they enterd into with your Nation in the years 1775, 1776 & 1777. It was one of their first and great Objects to secure to you and to your Women & Children Peace and Safety: and they extended the same benevolent wishes to All the Nations of Indians on this great Continent— however oppressed by the English who returnd our Love with Fire and Sword. We woud not suffer our Indian Friends to be plunged for our sakes into the Miseries of War. We stood forth like Men and fought our own Battles; and advised them to sit quietly under the Shade of their Trees and reap the Fruits of our Toils & Dangers; the Freedom purchased by our Blood. But the English acted a part very different by Deceit and
