May 26, 1779 535 Bribes they blinded the Eyes & understandings of many of our Indian Brethren: & turned their Hearts against Us. They did not stop here: but prevailed on many of them to Join in the War against us: to destroy our Women & Children and plunder our Substance & burn our Villages. For this perfidious Treatment we have never given the Slightest Provocation: our Treaties we have faithfully observed: & tho it was out of our Power to do All that we wished for our Indian Brethren we did them all the good which our Circumstances admitted. We sent over the great Waters for a large Supply of Cloathing & goods, on purpose to Open the Trade & relieve the necessities of our Indian Brethren as we promised them. They must not complain of us for the Disappointment: the English alone are to blame who having more Ships at Sea than the united States robbed us & you of the goods intended for your Support: Let them meet with your Reproaches who are the Cause of your sufferings. The time is at Hand, we trust, when it will be out of their Power to disturb our Trade or to injure our Children or our Friends. Our great & good Ally the King of France has Joined his Warriors by Sea and Land to the Warriors of these united States. Other mighty Nations on the other side of the great Water are our Friends, and will we expect soon take fast hold of the same Covenant Chain which bind us and France. Our great General and our other brave Warriors have already convinced all the World that these united States are not to be conquered; and we have the highest Confidence under the divine Favour that by their Courage and good Conduct as Warriors our enemies will soon be driven from this Country over the great Waters. We have also the best Reasons to expect that with the Aid of our powerful Ally a free Passage thro’ the Seas to distant Countries will be opened & preserved, And these united States possessed of the Means of supplying the Wants and establishing a great Trade & relieving the necessities of Such of the Indians as shall continue stedfast in their Friendship. You tell Us that it is your Opinion that it is for the Interest of the Delaware Nation that they should observe the Strictest Neutraility during the present War. You know best whether this is the general Opinion of your Nation: but we must inform you that it is reported that many of your young Men have Joined the Senecas & taken up the Hatchet aginst Us. Had the Indian Nations remained peaceable: had they not listend to the Voice of our Enemies, & broken their Treaties we are well persuaded they woud have consulted their truest Interest. But while too many of them take an active part, against Us, you cannot be surprized that our Warriors ask for & expect the Assistance of such as profess to be our Friends. Brothers. We shall take Care of your Children whom you leave with us, & give them a religious & useful Education, & we receive this Mark of your Confidence as a strong Testimony of the Sincerity of your Friend ship. Nor shall we neglect when the Country shall be restord to Quiet to encourage & promote your Civilization by inducing Ministers, School Masters, Tradesmen & Husbandmen to reside among you. It is a Measure wise & salutary and in which you will meet with the Applause & assist-
