536 May 26, 1779 ance of good men. When we know in what Measure we can be serviceable to your pious Instructor the Reverend Mr. Ziesberger we will afford him assistance & Encouragement: Well pleased that his Example & Labors have proved acceptable & beneficial to those of your Nation who have embraced Christianity. Brothers. The Great Council have never interposed with respect to the Claims or Bounds of their Indian Friends. Their disputes ought to be settled by Wise Men of your & our Nations acquainted with your Cus toms And your Rights which we do not profess to be: Nor have we time while the War continues to Rage to examine into such Matters: Altho’ we shall at a future day be glad to give you the best Advice in our power after receiving the Necessary Information. 4 MS (DNA: PCC, item 166, fols. 427-35). Written by James Duane and endorsed by him: “Speech to the Delawares 1779.” 1 This date is taken from the following endorsement by Duane on another copy of this speech: “The Speech of the Congress of the united States to the Wisemen representing the Delaware Nations & deliverd by their Committee for Indian Affairs the 26t. May 1779.” PCC, item 166, fols. 437-40. 2 The Committee for Indian Affairs was replying to an address of the Delaware Indians that had originally been presented to General Washington on May 12 and was then pre sented to Congress upon their return to Philadelphia from New Jersey. The manuscript of it that survives is in the hand of George Morgan and bears the date May 10,1779. Washington had replied noncommittally to the speech and had sent Congress a copy of it along with Morgan’s letter of May 9. Congress had received these documents on May 17 enclosed in Washington’s May 14 letter. See JCC, 14:597; PCC, item 166, fols. 411-19; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:53-56, 78-79; and Committee for Indian Affairs Speech, May 25, 1779. 3 In the margin of another copy of this document (cited in note one), Duane wrote the names of the “Indians present” when the speech was delivered on May 26. PCC, item 166, fol. 437. Because Duane’s handwriting is often extremely difficult to read and he appears to have rendered the names phonetically, it seem quixotic to attempt to reproduce them here. In Duane’s list, for example, the well-known first chief of the Delawares, Gelelemend (or Kelelamand—Capt. John Killbuck) appears as “Cayleylamont”; and the second chief, We- lepachtschiechen (Captain Johnny), appears as “Weylapacheicon.” Of the other Delawares in attendance, two were apparently Peykeling and Tetepachksit, identified as councilors, and two were identified by their Christian names, John Lewis and John Thompson. George Morgan’s name appears at the bottom of the list. See also Clinton A. Weslager, The Delaware Indians: A History (New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1972), pp. 295-311. 4 The surviving copy of the Delawares’ May 29 reply to this address, which is also in the hand of George Morgan, is in PCC, item 166, fols. 445-48. The Indians repeated their need for clothing, powder, and lead and hinted at the need to tum to the English at Detroit for supplies if they could not get them from the United States. They reaffirmed their neutrality and stated that the Delawares who had joined the British had been “obliged to forsake our Nation,” comparing them to the American loyalists. James Duane to Mary Duane Philad. 26t May 1779. I hope, my dearest Polly, our worthy and amiable Brother and Sis ter 1 are by this time happily arrived at the Manour. They sat out last
