May 26, 1779 537 Sunday week and by them I informed you of my Health & of my anxious wishes for your’s and the Childrens. The Servant and Mare were returned from an Apprehension that she was unable to perform the Journey. Him I dismissed as his Temper & want of manners disgusted me and his aw- kardness rendered him of little Service. I have engaged a Lad I like much better, he shaves and dresses very well, and is very obliging hitherto. I wish I may have it in my power to keep him. I flatter myself you are reconciled for the Reasons I gave you to my staying here a little longer. I want to give my Aid in placing our publick Affairs upon a firm Basis. We have difficulties to encounter: but our prospects are upon the whole agreeable; and with the Blessings of our gracious Creator, and our own Exertions this Campaign, we may reason able Hope for a Speedy and an honourable Peace. Too much paper money is our great Evil. It woud be for every Man’s Interest to give one half of it to the Flames: but this will not be done voluntarily: and indeed nothing will answer The purpose but large Taxes. To these the people ought chearfully to submit: and indeed while money continues so plenty, and Wisdom and Justice are exercised by the Legislatures in the mode of assessment, they will not be too burthensome, altho’ the nominal Tax of rich Individuals will make a high Sound. You need not be uneasy about Summer Cloaths for me: I shall make a good Shift with two or three pair of the Stockings and Changes of linnen or dimathy under cloaths which I have ordered to be made up & bought. I shall fix my Affairs so as to be able to stay at home entirely, or only to serve on some great Occasion; and wish therefore to give entire Satisfac tion to my Constituents at this time, when very much is to be done, and diligence and a thorough Knowledge of Business are essential to the pub lick Safety. I think of nothing to add, but my dutiful Regards to our honourd Parents: affectionate Compliments to the respective Branches of the Fam ily; and my Blessings to our dear Children. Adieu my dearest Polly and believe me to be with Constant Prayers for your Health and Happiness. Your ever faithful & most affect Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 That is, Robert' C. Livingston and Alice Swift Livingston. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday 26th May. 1779 Commercial Committee. Congress. A Letter from T Payne, abusing Mr. Deane was Read and took up a deal of time in debate. The Adress to the People was read paragraph Per paragraph and unanimously agreed to and 500 Copies ordered to be Printed. One of the Delegates of the State of Pennsylvania enform’d the House that the President with some other
