May 26, 1779 545 General Mcl[ntosh] had his people M & W to Fort Lau- [rens]. after talked a little while left ten of his Men fort alway some of his Men Colo. Gibson has papers now. Men used to go day & night expresses. I used to fret myself very little lest should fall thro’ their laps—we are envied & hated most for assisting you. hate us bad as they do you on that account. MS (PHi: Laurens Papers). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 These undated notes were made by Laurens, as a member of the Committee for Indian Affairs, during the committee’s meetings with the Delaware chiefs after their return to Phila delphia from New Jersey. Although the exact date that they were taken is not known, they clearly pertain to the negotiations that followed the delivery of the committee’s formal address to the Delawares on May 26, and preceded the Indians 1 formal reply on May 29. The abrupt nature of the beginning and end of these cryptic notes suggests that they are apparently only a surviving fragment of a more complete set kept by Laurens. 2 Gen. Lachlan McIntosh had been the principal negotiator of the Treaty of Fort Pitt of September 1778, which formally allied the Delawares with the United States and called for joint military operations aimed at the capture of Detroit. The fruits of that alliance had been a disappointment to the Delawares, however, for after participating in an abortive expedi tion against Detroit they found that they had gained no advantages and were now exposed to British counterattack. The expedition’s failure was largely responsible for McIntosh’s request for a transfer to the southern department and Congress’ reassignment of him. See JCC, 14:606; and Max Savelie, George Morgan: Colony Builder (New York: Columbia Univer sity Press, 1932), pp. 157-60. 3 John Gibson (1740-1822), who had been designated as Indian agent for the Delawares in the treaty of 1778. A trader at Fort Pitt since 1760, Gibson had served as a colonel in the Continental Army from 1776 and had commanded the Ninth Virginia Regiment at Fort Pitt and Fort Laurens in 1778. He was subsequently second in command at Fort Pitt under Col. Daniel Brodhead. See Savelie, George Morgan, pp. 158-59; and Edward G. Williams, Fort Pitt and the Revolution on the Western Frontier (Pittsburg: Historical Society of Western Pennsylva nia, 1978), pp. 213-14. 4 That is, George Washington. For further information on the Delawares’ meeting with Washington, see Committee for Indian Affairs Speech to the Delaware Indians, May 25, note 2; and May 26, note 2. 5 White Eyes, a Delaware chief who had been the Indian force behind the 1778 treaty with the United States, had died under mysterious circumstances while leading American troops through Delaware territory west of Fort Pitt in November 1778. Although the Indians were told that White Eyes had died of smallpox, Morgan stated later that the chief had been “treacherously put to death.” “I have carefully concealed,” Morgan explained in a letter of May 12, 1784, “& shall continue to conceal from young White Eyes the Manner of his Father’s Death, which I have never Mentioned to any one but Mr. Thomson, & two or three Members of Congress.” George Morgan Papers, DLC; and Clinton A. Weslager, The Dela ware Indians: A History (New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 1972), p. 306. Henry Laurens to William Carmichael Sir. [ante May 26, 1779] 1 I have such confidence in the honor & integrity of Mathew Locke Esquire as leaves no ground for doubting the justice of his claim under the
