May 27, 1779 547 Marine Committee to George Washington Sir Marine Committee, Philadelphia May 26th 1779 Your Excellencys Letter of the 25th instant to this Committee together with an extract from another of the 17th instant to the President of Con gress has been duely considered by the Committee. 1 Unfortunately the situation of our Frigates is such, as to afford no reason to expect that they can possibly be collected in Season to execute the plan proposed. The Providence of 32 Guns & the Ranger of 18 are already ordered on A Cruize and it is supposed must be at Sea before different Orders can reach them at Boston. The Warren of 36 Guns & the Queen of France of 20 Guns have lately returned from A Cruize and are unmanned. Although the Naval force of the enemy at New York is at present trifling, yet as their Situation in this respect is very fluctuating, they may probably be so reinforced as to render it too hazardous to risk only the two Frigates in this River viz the Confederacy of 36 Guns & the Deane of 28 Guns, the later of which wants a great number of Hands to make up her Complement. Add to this that though the force of the enemy on the water would be inferior to ours, yet might they not retire under cover of the Batteries on Shore, and receive effectual protection from any Annoyance that could be attempted from the Guns of our Small Ships? I am desired by the Committee to Assure you Sir, that they shall always be ready with the greatest Alacrity to employ our little fleet in the execu tion of such Plans as may be suggested to them by your Excellency when ever circumstances shall be such as to render it practicable. I am Your Excellency’s Most obedt. and very hble servant, Sami Adams RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Samuel Adams. 1 Washington had recommended a naval attack on the remnant of the British fleet that remained at New York. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:91, 144-45. Committee of Congress to John Chaloner and James White Gentlemen Philaa. 27th May 1779 The Committee have carefully exd. your Calculation but cannot agree with you as to the Magnitude of the Amount. They wish to have Materi als on which to form if possible a solid Judgment such as the Issues to the Army and Posts. Also the Issues from the Purchasing to the issuing De partment. In the Interim it may be prudent to suppose that the Error may as well lie on the one Side as on the other and therefore to allow Time for a Correction of it. With this View it may be proper to purchase South of the Delaware over and above the Consumption at the several Posts within
