046 May 27, 1779 that Tract of Country 10,000 Blls. by the 1st Day of August. To accom plish this let that Quantity be divided among ten, fifteen or twenty Pur chasers as shall be most convenient assigning to each one his Quantity, of this let */* be ready at some particular spot in his District by the 20th of June */4 more by the 10th of July and the Remainder by the 1st of August. Perhaps it might be of Use to give so much per Barril for the Purchase restricting it to contain 224 lbs at least instead of a Commission on the Money and to limit the Price giving a further Gratuity of so much in the Pound for whatever it is obtained lower, in which Case the Salt should be valued at a fixed Sum and rather too high than too low as thereby the Flour would eventually come cheaper to the Treasury. On these Regula tions we should be glad of your Sentiments. We must insist upon a Return of the several Officers in the Depart ment. Their weekly Purchases and the Gratuities as well of Rations as of Money or otherwise allowed them by the Public. You will forthwith order 2,000 out of the 4,000 Barrils directed to be laid in Store on the Waters of Chesapeak to be delivered to Mr. Holkers Agent at Baltimore taking Receipts as before directed. You will also be careful with all possible Speed to deliver to the Committee Accounts of whatever may be delivered by their Order—And you will transmit a Copy of this Letter to the Commissary General 1 who is to consider it of equal Validity as if directed to him in the first Instance. I am Gentlemen, your most obedient, & humble Servant, By Order of the Committee, Gouv Morris RC (PHi: Chaloner & White Papers). Written and signed by Gouverneur Morris Ad dressed: “Messr. Chaloner & White at their Office in Fourth Street.” 1 That is, Jeremiah Wadsworth, in whose papers at CtHi a copy of this letter is located. John Fell’s Diary Thursday 27th May. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Letter from the Sieur Gerrard was Read. 1 The order of the day, for taking up the Ultimatom on the fishery, after many speaches and long debates, it was agreed to withdraw and Repeal all the former, Resolutions, amendments and Subsitutes, and be gin a new. MS (DLC). 1 This day Congress received two communications from the French minister: a letter of May 25 thanking Congress for its resolution of the 24th concerning British “cruelties” against French subjects in Virginia and a memorial of the 27th reminding the delegates of the importance of the Spanish mediation effort and pointing out that continued failure to reach a decision on negotiation demands would “incur the risk of cooling the good will” of the king of Spain. See JCC, 14:659; PCC, item 94, fols. 245-57; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:185-86, 194-95.
