May 29, 1779 553 Mr. Fell. Thinks Congress ought not to interfere, that is shd be postponed till the Delegates can obtain Instructions from their several States, and till the other Party can have an opportunity of defending themselves. Burk. Congress cannot hear Compts. of Citizens agt. their State. Shearman. Agd. in Congress not to go further than Res[olutio]n 30 June 77 5 —Deed, then that Congress had no Right to determine the Contro versy, & therefore only sd. they had not encouraged or countenanced Revolt. Ought to consider how we are to interpose, & wh[ich] way will be best likely to ensure peace. Confederation not compleat, & if it was it wd not give Congress Right to judge—can interpose only as mediators—I think that way best. Verm[ont] claims the Right of an independent State & a peremp tory Decision ought not to be made without hearing them. Line in 1764 obtained by misrepresentation of Govr. Clinton who sd it wd be agrea- ble to the People. That application was afterwards made to the king to revoke it, & was pending when the trouble came on. Never were sub jects of New York with their own Consent—and therefore when Inde pend was declared they became so, N Hampshire having relinquished them. There should be a previous Inquiry and all Persons concerned calld to a hearing—if they agree Congress may decide, if not they may advise. As there paying no Taxes, it is not much, they live on a Fron tier—are at the Expence of maintaining it, raise money among them selves are brave—as to relieving the Yorkers among them it cannot be done, without deciding the Qu. which being improper now cannot be done. Duane. Gerry. Always disposd to do Justice to N York—never encouragd Ver mont on his honor—& that those who did were unjustifiable. 2 Coun ties of Massachusetts 6 not now to be governed, nor will be till Peace. That if Conferation was compleat, Congress might decide Jurisdiction & then ought to repress refractory Inhabitants but can’t do it now. Inhabitants extraprovincial might set up for themselves. That a present Decision might be extra|ju]dicial & give Discontent—proposes a Com mittee of Congress to go to them. MS (NNC: Gouverneur Morris Collection). In the hand of John Jay. 1 Although Jay’s notes on the Vermont debate are undated, they were clearly made on May 29, when Gov. George Clinton’s May 18 letter with “sundry papers” was read in Congress and referred to the committee of the whole. These notes were taken during the ensuing debate in the committee of the whole on Clinton’s letter, “together with the papers enclosed, and the resolutions moved by the delegates of New York.” JCC, 14:667-68. Congress was unable to reach agreement on May 29 except to continue consideration of the Vermont question on June 1. At that time, they adopted Elbridge Gerry’s proposal to appoint a committee to go to the New Hampshire Grants to “confer with the said inhabi tants, and . . . promote an amicable settlement of all differences.” See JCC, 14:673-75; Jay to Clinton, May 22; Gouverneur Morris to Clinton, May 30; and New York Delegates to Clinton,June 1, 1779.
