May 30, 1779 555 was well made.” I pray that Holy God in whom we confide, of whose attributes nor Brutus nor Cassius had just conceptions, to continue to you his mercies & his protection; in him alone I trust in my daily prayers for the salvation of my Country. Henry Laurens P.S. I have heard nothing directly from you since the 23d April—Peruse my Letter to Mr. Gervais. I have not troubled him with a syllable respect ing my private affairs from an assurance that even a syllable would have been unnecessary, but I must remind you of my Papers, all my Papers, 2 Plate, wearing apparel & last of all Liquer. I would wish to have all these in safe places, the latter if only to give away. Negroes no doubt will partake the common fares of the Country. Upon the whole, Gods Will be done, is the sum of my prayer, to the total conclusion of unmanly & unchristian anarchy. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 For the account that Laurens had received of the action in which John had recently been wounded during his journey to South Carolina, see Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates, June 29, 1779. 2 Because the papers of Henry Laurens are a principal source for the study of Congress during 1778-1779—the greatest single source after the Papers of the Continental Congress— the disposition of Laurens’ papers is of interest to students of the period. The following information, contained in a privately owned letter recently acquired at auction, is quoted here to suggest the ultimate fate of Laurens’ efforts to preserve documents bearing upon his public career. Responding to a request from Samuel Johnston of North Carolina for some legal docu ments, Laurens explained that he had recently ordered a search of his papers—“Six Small Trunks of Papers which some of my black Servants had hid & saved from destruction in the War”—and was “fully satisfied” that he was not in possession of the documents requested. “Most of my valuable Papers,” Laurens went on to explain, “were in 1780 carefully packed in 21 Mohogany Boxes & sent for safety to a Plantation 72 Miles from this City [Charleston, S.C.] under the protection of a particular friend, but the British Troops penetrated & to my very great loss & additional perplexity destroyed the whole. Two of my friends, then Prison ers, were eye witnesses & were severely threatned for attempting to save a part which had been thrown into a Pond of Water, in that destruction.” Henry Laurens to Samuel Johnston, August 4, 1791, Ronald von Klaussen collection. Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton Dear Governor, Phila. [May 30, 1779] Yesterday the House were resolv[ed into] a Committee of the whole upon our Vermont Business and as far as [Declarations can be trusted and Appearances I hope we shall be able to render our State a good Account of that Business. Nothing was concluded but on Tuesday next we are again to take it up in a Committee of the whole & I hope it will during the Course of the Week be concluded to our Satisfaction. Mr. Jay and Mr. Duane who had the principal Share in the Debate did full Justice to the Cause and stated the Merits with a Clearness and Force irresistible unless by Prejudice and Blindness. 1
