556 May 30, 1779 I did flatter myself with the Pleasure of seeing you the Begining of the next Month. The Care of my Health which has much suffered by a long and unremitted Attention was a principal Motive of my Design. Mr. Lewis who is with you and Mr Duer whenever he shall be with you will be able to give a full & accurate account of the Situation of our Public Affairs here. For this Reason and as I have lately been blessed with an Interval of better Health than usual I shall defer for some Time my Return. This Indeed I am compelled to do for the Business [of the imp]ortant Committees which Congress have done me [. . .] upon hath so principally devolved to my Manage[ment. . .] that I cannot quit it without Injury to the Public. [The Me]asures I have lately taken will I hope be productive of very [good?] Consequences to our State. To what Extent & Effect they may [. . .] It is not in human Prudence to determine because Human [Pru]dence cannot govern Events. I am not now at Liberty to state these Things but a little Time will I hope display them. The Torrent of Abuse which hath been poured out agt me hath doubt less reached my Constituents. 2 Those who know me will do me the Justice to think properly on the Occasion. Could I believe myself capable of any among the many Things which have been said I should heartily despise myself. One Consolation I derive from it and that is a great one. Those who vilify and traduce me are my Enemies because they are Enemies to the State I represent. They are my Enemies because I will not prostitute myself to the Purposes of Faction. Such Enmity I shall court rather than avoid. Nor can it ever give me one momentary Pang unless it should affect the Minds of my Constituents or my Friends. I pray you to pardon the Egotisms of this Letter & to believe me, most respectfully yours, Gouv. Morris RC (N: Clinton Papers). 1 For further information on the previous day’s debates on Vermont, see John Jay’s Notes of Debates, May 29, 1779. 2 See Morris to Joseph Reed, April 9 and 25; and Morris to John Dunlap, ca. April 25, 1779. Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston Dear Livingston Phila. 30th May 1779 It is now I beleive near three Months since I have written to you a Syllable or indeed to any Friend I have on Earth. 1 The General omission hath been owing to a Motive I hardly dare to name. It is however a Truth that I have not been a Moment that I was at once at Leizure in Health and alone. I should however have made Opportunities to write to you but I have been led to expect You here every Moment for the whole Time of my Silence, Why you have not come I know not Neither will I enquire because I hope you will personally give an Account of yourself at this
