May 30, 1779 557 Place in some very short Period. 2 This City is now the Scene of Politicks high and low I may add it is the Scene of Faction, Anarchy & Detraction. Never were the Affairs of any Country in a better and a worse Situation than those of America at this Moment. A Storm is gathering and will burst upon the Heads of our Enemies perhaps of our own. Would to God that the Desire of that great Luxury to be free was the Great Desire of my Countrymen. But other Luxuries more alluring have influence but too much upon this Conduct. The Torrent of Paper Money hath swept away with it much of our Morals and impaired the national Industry to a Degree truly alarming. Having successfully opposed the first energetic Efforts of the Enemy the struggle seems to have exhausted us and after foiling the Giant we shrink at the Touch of a Child. I fear before this reaches you Charlestown will no longer own the Authority of Congress. There indeed the Enemy will probably stop there they will collect their Forces and endeavor to weary us into a Submission by Harrassing our Coasts and Frontiers and striking at our Money. From Halifax, Rhode Island, New York, Portsmouth in Virginia & Charlestown their Cruizers will infest or rather destroy our Commerce and the little Armies necessary to watch their Motions and prevent their Ravages will effectually exhaust our little remaining Resources. This is one Side of the Picture. On the other like the Bottom of Pandora’s Box is Hope. Spain perhaps while I write this is in Arms and while France keeps Great Britain at Bay Gibral tar and Jamaica will call for Protection which they may not perhaps obtain. If the Squadron at St. Lucia is incapable of offensive Operations & kept in Check by D’Estaing five Ships of the Line would cleanse the Continent of her Foes, Or even if this should not be the Case a naval Victory in Favor of France either in Europe or America would turn the Ballance so powerfully in our Favor as to cover our Enemies with Confu sion. At any Rate a Continuance of the War must thoroughly exhaust them as well as us and the Business terminate as such Business usually does in the laying down of Arms from mutual Weariness. In this Case the most obstinate Councils would be the most efficacious. But whither am I going? Pray present all my Affections to your Family and give for me a gratulatory Kiss to the Brides of it. I think you have two. I wish much to see you. Mrs. Livingston’s Shoes will be well dried. By the bye I got two Pair instead of one. At 26 Dlls, per Pair & had I received your Note a Fortnight sooner should have paid only 16. If they were bought now the Price would be 40. O Tempora O Mores. God bless you, yours affectionally, Gouv Morris RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Morris’ most recent extant letter to Livingston was dated January 21, 1779. A letter to Morris from Livingston of February 9 is in Livingston’s Papers, NHi. 2 Livingston was not elected a delegate until October 18; he began attending Congress on November 20, 1779. JCC, 15:1293-94.
