Lerox  Library 


l/m-dmacC*  in  1^9^ 


~*«  *■■  l«» 


Aa 


\ 


c  &  n  | 


V 


'•'-, 


THE   LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE 


OF 


RUFUS  KING 


VOLUME  III. 


1 799- 1 80 1 


Of  this  Letter-press  Edition 
j 50  Copies  ha  ve  been  Printed  for  Sale 


No.. 


"HjJ 


January,  1896 


Rufus  King 

From  the  engraving  by  Leney,  after  the  painting  by  Wood,  1817 
Published  in  Delaplaines  "  Repository' 


THE   LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

RUFUS  KING 

COMPRISING  HIS   LETTERS,  PRIVATE  AND  OFFICIAL 

HIS  PUBLIC  DOCUMENTS   AND 

HIS    SPEECHES 


EDITED  BY  HIS  GRANDSON 

CHARLES   R.  KING,   M.D. 

FELLOW   OF   THE   COLLEGE   OF   PHYSICIANS,    PHILADELPHIA,    AND 

MEMBER   OF   THE   NEW   YORK   AND    PENNSYLVANIA 

HISTORICAL    SOCIETIES 


VOLUME   III. 


1 799- 1 80 1 


NEW  YORK 
G.  P.  PUTNAM'S   SONS 

®Jj*  Imicktrbocher  !piess 
1896 


■ 

<       4         c 


COPYRIGHT,    1896 
BY 

CHARLES   R.    KING 


<    1    ^ 


Zbc  TRnicfeerbocfcet  press,  1ftew  Jl?orfe 


PREFACE  TO  THE  THIRD  VOLUME. 

This  third  volume  takes  up  the  correspondence  at  the 
point  of  time  when  President  Adams  had  proposed  to  send 
a  new  embassy  to  France  to  take  advantage  of  what 
appeared  to  him  an  opportunity  to  settle  the  questions 
which  had  caused  the  breaking  off  the  amicable  relations 
with  France  and  the  annulling  of  the  treaty  with  that 
country.  Constant  decrees  against  all  vessels,  carrying  arti- 
cles of  the  growth  or  manufacture  of  England  or  its  colonies 
and  confiscations  under  them  were  aimed  chiefly  against  the 
commerce  of  the  United  States,  and  the  President  hoped 
through  the  instrumentality  of  a  new  commission  to  France 
to  restore  the  harmony  and  peaceful  conditions  between  the 
two  nations.  As  is  well  known  this  course  was  disapproved 
of  by  the  Federalists  generally,  and  with  other  causes  led  to 
a  want  of  confidence  and  good  feeling  between  them,  and 
resulted  in  his  failure  to  be  re-elected  to  the  Presidency. 
The  history  of  this  unfortunate  event,  of  the  change  of 
administration  caused  by  the  election  of  Jefferson,  and  of 
the  policy  which  he  adopted,  are  the  subjects  which  fill  the 
letters  of  Mr.  King's  correspondents  in  the  United  States, 
often  revealing  in  their  remarks  his  own  opinions.  Abroad 
he  is  shown  to  have  earnestly  endeavored  to  bring  to 
a  conclusion  the  questions  in  dispute  between  the  United 
States  and  Great  Britain,  hopeful,  yet  constantly  disap- 
pointed by  evasions  and  delays  on  the  part  of  Great  Britain, 
explained  partly  by  the  pressure  of  her  relations  with 
France  and  the  continent,  and  partly  by  a  change  of  minis- 
try.    Of  the  events  on  the  continent  during  this  period  the 


VI  PREFACE    TO    THE    THIRD    VOLUME. 

Secretary  of  State  was  regularly  and  intelligently  advised, 
the  letters  giving  a  full  account  of  their  constantly  changing 
political  as  well  as  military  aspects. 

There  are  also  some  interesting  memoranda  of  men  and 
measures  from  his  private  books  in  an  Appendix  and  in  the 
body  of  the  volume.  Among  them  are  conversations  with 
Miranda  which  show  that  he  sought  Mr.  King  and  volun- 
tarily laid  before  him  his  plans  and  his  relations  with  the 
British  Government,  after  Mr.  King  had  informed  him  that 
he  would  converse  with  him  about  them  without  committing 
himself  or  his  government  to  any  approval  of  them,  but  for 
the  purpose  of  gaining  information  to  transmit  to  the  Presi- 
dent respecting  the  important  measures  suggested,  being 
matters  of  the  deepest  interest  to  his  own  country.  Not  a 
word  of  the  Hamiltonian  plot  charged  against  General 
Hamilton,  but  rather  showing  that  he  was  not  anxious 
to  do  anything  to  forward  the  proposed  project. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  III. 


CHAPTER    I. 

PAGE 

Mr.  King  expected  early  in  1797  soon  to  return  Home — In  1797  he  made 
Arrangements  for  a  longer  Residence  abroad — Sends  his  Sons  to  Har- 
row— Once  a  great  Smoker — Gave  up  Smoking — Pickering  to  King — 
Agreement  with  General  Maitland  relative  to  St.  Domingo — Cabot  to 
King — President's  Alienation  from  Hamilton  and  his  Friends — Un- 
successful Endeavor  to  change  this — Gerry  a  Solitary — Murray's  Nomi- 
nation— The  Directory  said  to  intend  sending  Lafayette  as  Ambassa- 
dor to  the  United  States — Cannon  for  Charleston — King  to  be  sent 
Ambassador  to  Russia — Marshall  chosen  for  Congress  from  Virginia — 
Virginia  and  Kentucky  Resolutions — Troup  to  King — Federal  Success 
in  New  York — Jay's  Administration  not  successful — The  President 
at  Braintree — King  to  Secretary  of  State — French  military  Movements 
— King  to  Lord  Grenville — Detention  of  Ship  Prosper,  with  United 
States  Arms  on  Board — Pickering  relative  to  Misinterpretation  of 
1 8th  Article  of  the  Treaty — King  to  Lord  Grenville — No  News  of 
Troubles  of  Commission  in  Philadelphia — Pickering — Trial  of  In- 
surgents in  Pennsylvania — King  to  Hamilton — Continental  Affairs    .         I 

CHAPTER    II. 

King  to  Lord  Grenville — Blockade  of  the  United  Provinces — Request 
for  Release  of  American  Vessels — To  Count  de  Woronzow — Russian 
Treaty — To  Secretary  of  State — Interruption  of  Commission  under 
6th  Article — Blockade  of  the  United  Provinces — To  Lord  Lough- 
borough— Maryland  Bank — To  Troup — Cannot  understand  Affairs  at 
Home — Pickering  to  King — Captain  Loring's  Insult  to  American  Flag 
— Mission  to  Constantinople — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Complains  of 
the  Vice-Admiralty  Courts — To  Secretary  of  State — Mission  to  Con- 
stantinople and  to  Russia — Cabot  to  King — Dissatisfaction  with 
President — Lawrance  to  King,  relative  to  the  8  percent.  Loan — Great 
Demand  for  Credits  in  Bank — Pickering  to  King — St.  Domingo — 
Toussaint  promises  Safety  to  Commerce — King  to  Pickering — Disap- 
proves of  the  Nomination  to  France — Recommends  Prudence  in 
Dealing  with  her — English  Opinion  on  French  Affairs — Trade  with 
Russia — Troup  to  King — Latter's  Remarks  about  English  Courts — St. 
Domingo — East  India  Trade — Confidence  in  Adams's  Discretion  im- 
paired— King  to  Lord  Grenville  on  Provisions  of  the  18th  Article 
of  the  Treaty  ...........       20 

vii 


VI 11  CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER   III. 


PAGE 


Cabot  to  King — Doubts  Toussaint's  Plans,  and  Wisdom  of  Interference 
with  Colonies  of  European  Neighbors — La  Fayette's  Mission  to  the 
United  States — King  to  Hamilton — Continental  Affairs — To  Secre- 
tary of  State — Condition  of  War  in  Europe — Ames  to  King — France 
must  be  fought  with  till  fought  down — Review  of  Affairs  at  Home — 
Prospect  more  favorable — Trade  flourishes — King  to  Secretary  of 
State — Conference  with  Lord  Grenville  relative  to  Proceedings  of 
Commissioners  under  the  6th  Article — Their  Secession  would  cause 
those  under  the  7th  to  be  stopped,  notwithstanding  King's  Remon- 
strances— St.  Domingo — Pickering  to  King — Directs  him  to  persevere 
in  denying  the  Right  of  British  Men-of-War  to  take  any  Man  what- 
ever from  our  Ships  of  War 37 

CHAPTER   IV. 

Letters  to  and  from  Dr.  Drury — Sons'  Education — King  to  Lord  Gren- 
ville— Blockade  of  Dutch  Ports — Suspension  of  Commissioners  under 
7th  Article — To  Pickering — Silence  about  Situation  of  those  under  6th 
Article — Blockade  of  Dutch  Ports — Detention  in  England  of  Ship 
Providence — To  Lord  Grenville — Blockade  not  effective  and  Deten- 
tions of  Vessels  unjust — To  Secretary  of  State  on  the  Blockade — 
Always  remonstrates  when  American  Property  captured — England 
will  not  change  her  Policy  towards  Neutrals — Vice-Admiralty  Courts 
filled  by  incompetent  Judges — Our  Case  not  peculiar — Other  Neu- 
trals suffer  also — Sees  no  Remedy — Recaptures — Impressment,  Eng- 
lish will  not  agree  on  a  Convention — Contraband,  not  able  to  conclude 
an  explanatory  Article — King  to  Secretary  of  State — French  meet  with 
ruinous  Defeats — Jacobin  Revolution  in  Paris — St.  Domingo — To  the 
Sec.  of  State — Treaties  with  Barbary  Powers  should  call  for  Payments 
in  Money  or  Products  of  the  U.  S. — To  Hamilton — Continental  Af- 
fairs— King  to  S.  Bourne — Advises  American  Vessels  should  remain 
at  Amsterdam  ...........       48 

CHAPTER   V. 

'King  to  Pickering — Smith's  Mission  to  Constantinople  delayed — Expedi- 
tion to  Holland — Revolution  in  Paris  Jacobinical — To  Sir  J.  Nichol 
— Trade  between  Surinam  and  Holland — Sedgwick  to  King — Presi- 
dent's Course  relative  to  France  disapproved — Genl.  Marshall's  Elec- 
tion will  give  Tone  to  federal  Politics  South — Delay  in  raising  the 
Army — Death  of  Govr.  Sumner — Western  New  York  prosperous — 
People  happy — Massachusetts'  Affairs — King  to  Secretary  of  State — 
Talleyrand's  Resignation — Danes  and  Swedes  exclude  Privateers 
from  their  Ports — Consul  from  Denmark — Bonaparte's  Retreat  from 


CONTENTS.  ix 


PAGE 


Acre — King  to  E.  Nepean — Claim  for  Indemnity  for  a  Broadside 
fired  into  an  American  Ship — To  Lord  Grenville,  complaining  of  Con- 
duct of  Govr.  of  St.  Helena — Contraband  of  War  in  West  Indies — 
Piracy  of  Crew  of  American  Brig  Nancy — Vessels  illegally  condemned 
in  Jamaica — To  Wm.  Fawkener — Asks  Permission  to  export  Copper 
— King's  Remonstrances  against  British  Acts 65 

CHAPTER  VI. 

Silverhjehm  to  King — American  Vessel  runs  down  a  Swedish  Cutter — 
Protest  of  the  Latter's  Captain — Pickering  to  King — Commissioners 
under  the  6th  Article — Causes  of  Separation  and  Comment — Remedy 
must  be  by  Negotiation — King  rents  a  country  Place — King  to  Lord 
Elgin,  Ambassador  to  the  Porte — Views  relative  to  intended  U.  S. 
Mission  to  Constantinople — To  Lord  Grenville — President's  Procla- 
mation— The  Trade  with  St.  Domingo — To  E.  Benson — Govern- 
ment of  France  embarrassed — Allies  full  of  Courage — To  Secretary 
of  State — Delays  in  Negotiations — Vessels  detained  at  St.  Helena 
restored — Continental  Affairs — English  Expedition  to  Holland  started 
— In  Paris,  the  Directory  have  shut  up  the  Clubs — Troup  to  King — 
Captures  of  Vessels  in  the  West  Indies — Commissioners  under  6th 
Article — Mission  to  France — General  Davie  appointed — Gore  to  King 
— Work  of  Commission  under  7th  Article  not  to  be  resumed  at  Present 
— Bingham  to  King — Dissatisfaction  with  Mission  to  France,  though 
perhaps  the  Time  opportune — Affairs  in  United  States  prosperous, 
though  yellow  Fever  has  appeared  again 78 

CHAPTER  VII. 

Pickering  to  King — Character  of  the  Commissioners  under  Article  6,  and 
Points  of  Disagreement — Desire  of  the  President  to  do  Justice  ;  will 
propose  an  explanatory  Article — Trumbull  to  King — Resignation  of 
Sir  James  Marriott — King  to  Secretary  of  State — English  landed  in 
Holland — Prussia  proposes  the  Restoration  of  the  Prince  of  Orange — 
French  Defeats  in  Switzerland — Want  of  Union  among  the  Allies — 
Cabot  to  King — Feeling  against  Appointment  of  Ministers  to  France  ; 
it  will  probably  cause  Apprehension  in  England  and  Russia — King 
to  Count  Rumford,  urging  him  to  visit  the  United  States — They  have 
established  a  Military  Academy,  and  would  commit  it  to  his  Super- 
intendence— To  Secretary  of  State — Baron  Silverhjehm's  Letter — 
Expedition  to  Holland  ;  Russians  join  it — To  Mr.  Hammond — Ex- 
planatory Article  relative  to  the  18th  Article  of  the  Treaty — Rumford 
to  King  ;  would  gladly  visit  the  United  States  and  accept  the  Offer  of 
the  Executive  Government — His  present  Engagements  prevent  this   .       95 


X  CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 


PAGE 


King  to  Lord  Grenville — Impressment  of  an  American  Sailor  in  Lisbon 
by  the  Mermaid — Outrages  against  American  Citizens  in  Jamaica 
by  British  Officers — Strong  Demands  for  Redress — Cabot  to  King — 
The  President  persists  in  sending  the  Envoys — Earnest  Efforts  to 
prevent  it — Thinks  of  the  Difficulties  to  King  in  Consequence  in 
England — Hale  to  King — Anxiety  caused  by  the  President's  Policy 
towards  France — Pleased  that  King  is  in  England  at  this  Time — 
Cabot  to  King — The  President's  Course  reprobated — King  to  Lord 
Grenville — Argument  against  the  Impressment  of  Seamen  and  other 
international  Questions — Injurious  Acts  of  Sir  Hyde  Parker — Earnest 
Appeal  to  Lord  Grenville  ........     108 

CHAPTER   IX. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Conference  with  Lord  Grenville  on  the  With- 
drawal of  the  Commissioners  under  the  6th  Article — Lord  Grenville 
in  one  of  the  Conferences  said  that  the  U.  S.  in  publishing  its  Minis- 
ters' Dispatches  must  inspire  Caution  in  making  Communications  to 
them — King  had  observed  a  Coldness  towards  the  U.  S.  and  conse- 
quently he  had  been  more  reserved  also — Character  and  Principles 
of  the  British  Government — States  his  Reasons  and  gives  in  Cipher 
the  Conversations  held  with  Lord  Grenville — King  to  Secretary  of 
State — Said  he  had  referred  to  an  explanatory  Article  to  Lord  Gren- 
ville, who  preferred  to  await  further  News — Admiral  Pringle's  Proc- 
lamation against  Whalers  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope — The  President 
to  Pickering — Explanatory  Article — Cabot  to  King — Mission  to 
France  suspended — It  will  be  difficult  to  recover  what  had  been 
gained  in  public  Opinion — The  pecuniary  Troubles  in  G.  Britain  and 
their  Consequences — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Reverses  of  the  Allies 
— Bankruptcies  on  the  Continent — Consuls  in  France  improperly  giv- 
ing irregular  consular  Papers  to  Vessels  bought  in  France — Maryland 
Bank  Mystery  and  Delay  in  Settlement      ......     122 

CHAPTER   X. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — No  Instructions  relative  to  Commission  in 
Philadelphia — Regrets  it  because  the  Mission  to  France  is  on  its  Way 
— Estimate  of  Affairs  on  the  Continent — Unfavorable  to  the  Allies — 
Troup  to  King — Sailing  of  the  Envoys — Evil  Effects  of  the  Action 
of  the  President — Especially  on  the  next  presidential  Election — 
Pickering  to  King — Envoys  sailed — Character  of  their  Instructions 
confined  to  making  commercial  Regulations — Cabot  to  King — Ap- 
prehensions from  the  Mission — Jacobin  Overthrow — Effect  of  Sus- 
pension of  specie  Payments  in  England — Sedgwick  to  King — Facts 
relative  to  the  President's  Decision — Loss  of  Confidence  in  his  Wis- 


CONTENTS.  xi 


PAGE 


dom  and  Prudence — Will  cause  Division  among  the  Federalists — 
Candidate  for  Speaker — Measures  that  should  be  taken  by  Congress 
— J.  Trumbull  to  King — Relative  to  the  Publication  of  N.  Webster's 
Epidemics — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Complains  of  continued  Depre- 
dations in  American  Seas  by  Admiral  Sir  Hyde  Parker's  Squadron, 
and  asks  that  prompt  Remedy  may  be  afforded — King  to  Secretary 
of  State — Regrets  he  had  not  received  the  Report  of  Commission 
under  6th  Article — Report  that  the  Mission  to  France  had  not  sailed 
led  him  to  a  Conference  with  Lord  Grenville,  which  he  gives    .         .139 

CHAPTER    XI. 

Sedgwick  to  King — Bad  Effect  of  possible  Disbandment  of  the  Army — 
Loan  would  be  necessary  to  maintain  it  and  increase  the  Navy — Next 
presidential  Election — Confidence  that  Federalists  will  succeed — King 
to  Secretary  of  State — Threatened  Withdrawal  of  Russian  Troops — 
Want  of  Confidence  in  the  Austrians — Russia  makes  Treaty  with 
Denmark,  etc. — What  Effect  will  this  have  on  American  Commerce 
with  France,  and  with  the  Conduct  of  England? — Restoration  of 
Commerce  with  France  may  help  Negotiations  in  England — Make 
her  restrain  Abuses — Consider  stopping  Impressment — King  to  Troup 
— Consuls  named  Talleyrand  to  meet  the  Envoys — Louis  XVII. — 
King  to  H.  Grant  relative  to  the  Capture  of  the  Woodrop  Sims,  with 
U.  S.  Arms  on  Board,  by  the  French — To  Comte  Wedel  Jarlsberg — 
Laws  of  the  U.  S.  relative  to  Inheritances — To  N.  Low — Recom- 
mendation of  B.  Dandridge  in  business  Relations — Sedgwick  to  King 
— Death  of  General  Washington — Shall  the  Army  continue  to  be  re- 
cruited?— If  Treaty  with  France  made,  it  would  be  disbanded — Presi- 
dent will  probably  be  authorized  to  stop  Enlistments — General  Mar- 
shall is  much  relied  on — Sedgwick  hopes  no  Treaty  with  France  will  be 
made — King  to  O.  Wolcott — Many  Embarrassments  in  England  cause 
Stagnation  in  Business — No  Peace  probable — King  to  Pickering — 
Little  Probability  of  Peace — The  Effect  of  the  Mission — Should  it 
succeed,  England  and  Russia  would  probably  be  offended — New 
French  Constitution  accepted  by  the  People 154 

CHAPTER   XII. 

Condition  of  European  Countries  in  the  Beginning  of  1800 — Its  Relation 
to  the  United  States — Troup  to  King — Death  of  Washington — Plans 
for  honoring  his  Memory  in  New  York — Oration  to  be  pronounced  by 
G.  Morris — A  cold  historical  Narrative — Nothing  to  move  the  Feel- 
ings— General  Mourning — Pickering  to  King — President  will  send 
Mr.  Sitgreaves  to  England  about  the  Interruption  of  the  Commission 
under  the  6th  Article — Might  not  be  acceptable  to  Mr.  King — Mr. 
Sitgreaves's  Position — Hamilton  to  King — Shall  the  Friends  of  the 


xii  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


Government  risk  Schism  by  Attempt  to  change — Mass  of  the  People 
want  Peace — He  wants  the  Navy  increased — Renewed  Animosity  to 
England — King  to  Lord  Grenville — No  Instructions  yet  relative  to 
Suspension  of  Commission  under  6th  Article — Lord  Grenville  to  King, 
inclosing  Dispatch  from  Liston  and  an  Article  from  Pickering  to  Peter 
Porcupine  justifying  the  Conduct  of  the  American  Commissioners — 
Requires  King  not  to  allow  the  former  to  go  beyond  himself — King  to 
Lord  Grenville — Answer  to  him  and  justifying  his  Course  in  freely 
communicating  with  his  own  Government,  though  Prudence  should 
be  exercised  in  publishing  Information. — Delay  in  sending  King 
Instructions  not  for  Delay's  Sake — Not  to  await  Arrival  of  the 
Envoys — Warmly  justifies  his  own  Government        ....     167 

CHAPTER    XIII. 

Cabot  to  King — President  in  private  Circles  distrusts  France — Opinions  of 
leading  Men  on  the  Result  of  the  Mission — Especially  of  the  southern 
Politicians — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Disposition  to  couple  Delay 
in  his  Instructions  with  Mission  to  France — Has  positively  stated  that 
is  not  so — Yet  feels  himself  embarrassed — Nothing  will  be  done  until 
these  injurious  Suspicions  are  removed — Envoys  not  yet  in  France — 
England,  Russia,  and  the  Porte  pledged  not  to  make  a  separate  Peace 
with  France — King  to  Troup — Thought  in  England  the  Envoys  will 
make  a  Treaty — Cannot  see  how  when  Mission  once  broached  it  could 
be  laid  aside — Lord  Buchan — Condolence  on  the  Death  of  Washington 
— King  to  Troup — Death  of  Washington — His  Character  a  steadying 
Power — To  Secretary  of  State — Unfair  and  dishonest  Condemnation 
by  French  Prize  Tribunals  used  by  English  Underwriters  against 
Americans — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Georgia  Records  lost  during 
the  War — Sedgwick  to  King — Bankrupt  Bill  and  proposed  Amend- 
ments— Pickering  to  King — Hopes  that  an  equitable  Adjustment 
relative'to  Commission  on  6th  Article  may  soon  be  made — President's 
Sense  of  Injury  done  by  the  unjust  Suspicions  .....     182 

CHAPTER   XIV. 

Sedgwick  to  King — His  Task  to  accommodate  the  Differences  with  G. 
Britain — France's  Conduct  viewed  with  Disgust,  even  Horror — King 
to  Secretary  of  State — Russian  and  Austrian  Disagreements,  also 
Austrian  and  English  financial  ones  settled — Envoys  at  Corunna — 
King  to  Lord  Grenville — Relative  to  the  Disagreement  of  the  Com- 
mission at  Philadelphia — To  Secretary  of  State — Speaks  of  Confer- 
ence above  referred  to — Scarcity  of  Bread  in  Great  Britain — Expe- 
dition preparing  possibly  to  assist  the  Revolt  of  the  Spanish  Colonies 
— To  Pickering — Will  be  glad  to  see  Mr.  Sitgreaves — Envoys  to 
France — Insurance    in    England    affected  by    Decisions  of  French 


CONTENTS.  xiii 


PAGE 

Courts — To  Secretary  of  State — On  the  News  of  the  Death  of  Wash- 
ington, he  put  his  Family  in  Mourning — Attending  next  Levee  of  the 
King  and  of  the  Queen — Neither  made  Allusion  to  the  Event — Con- 
certed Neglect — Dinner  at  Carleton  House  a  Year  before  ;  Washing- 
ton toasted — The  Prince  of  Wales  broke  up  the  Party — General 
News        ............     191 

CHAPTER    XV. 

'Bingham  to  King — England  may  declare  Blockade  of  French  Ports — Not 
advantageous  to  the  U.  S. — At  Home  antifederal  Party  gaining 
Ground — Fall  of  Prices  in  Europe  injurious  to  Merchants — King  to 
Sec'y  of  State — Envoys  arrived — Troup  to  King — Gov.  Jay  living 
too  retired — Beneficial  Use  of  Oxygen  Gas  in  Consumption — Jay 
may  retire — Should  declare  his  Intentions — Coming  Elections — Deep- 
rooted  Disgust  with  Adams — Cabot  to  King — Cannot  avoid  opening 
an  Intercourse  with  France  if  she  concedes  our  Demands — Hopes  he 
will  remain  in  England — The  Country  has  the  highest  Confidence 
dn  him — New  Alliance  with  France  to  be  dreaded — King  to  T. 
Hume — Missing  Georgia  Records — To  Pickering — Liston's  Letters 
to  J.  Buchanan — Says  he  must  lead  Mr.  Adams  by  the  Nose — 
Constable  to  King — Envoys  arrived — Well  received — King  to  Sec'y 
of  State — Note  about  6th  Article  not  yet  answered — Campaign  on 
the  Continent  not  yet  opened — Intentions  of  Russia  uncertain — To 
Sec'y  of  State — Lord  Grenville  does  not  wish  to  enter  into  formal 
Discussions  relative  to  explanatory  Articles  of  6th  Article — King  to 
Lord  Grenville — About  new  Commissioners — General  Answer  to  his 
Communication  on  that  Subject — Lord  Grenville's  specific  Answer 
to  King's  Note  of  18th  Feb'y — Accepting  only  the  Making  of  a  new 
Board       ............     204 

CHAPTER    XVI. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Conference  with  Lord  Grenville  relative  to 
his  Note — Suggests  the  probable  Wisdom  of  paying  a  gross  Sum  for 
the  Settlement  of  all  Claims  by  British  Creditors — To  Pickering — 
Advantages  from  such  a  Mode  of  Settlement — To  Secretary  of  State 
— Unless  Russia  unite  with  the  Allies,  Denmark  and  Sweden  will 
continue  neutral — Misunderstanding  between  Russia  and  the  Allies 
rather  increases — Gore  to  King— Events  in  the  U.S. — Lord  Grenville 
to  King — His  Report  of  Conference  correct — Suggests  the  Principle 
that  the  Decision  of  one  Cause  in  a  Class  of  Claims  should  settle 
all  of  this  Class — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Campaign  in  Italy 
recommenced  favorably  to  the  Allies — No  Change  in  Russia's 
Plans — The  Terms  of  Union  with  Ireland — Simcoe  to  King 
— His  Conduct  in  the  Government  of  Canada  the  reverse  of  that 
charged  by  the   Duke  of  Liancourt-Rochefoucault — He  endeavored 


XIV  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


to  preserve  Peace — King  to  Governor  of  Georgia — Records  of 
Georgia  found — To  Lord  Grenville  asking  their  Restoration — 
Pickering  to  King — Speculations  as  to  the  coming  presidential 
Election — Public  Offices  to  be  removed  to  Washington  in  June 
or  July — King  to  Troup — Presidential  Election — Pleasant  House 
nine  Miles  from  London — Must  have  a  Farm — Pickering's  Re- 
moval— Law  of  Blockade — Sedgwick  to  King — Bankrupt  Bill  passed 
— Secretary  of  Treasury  to  report  on  Revenue  at  Beginning  of 
each  Session — Influence  of  Marshall  in  Legislation — His  Character 
— Strong  reasoning  Powers,  but  weakens  their  Influence  frequently 
before  exerting  them — An  Instance  in  the  Passage  of  a  Law  for 
counting  the  Votes  for  President  in  Case  of  a  Dispute — His  Objec- 
tions, though  abandoned,  caused  it  to  be  lost — Adams  and  Pinckney 
will  be  the  federal  Candidates  ........     221 

CHAPTER   XVII. 

J.  Hale  to  King — Adams  must  be  the  Candidate  for  President — New 
York  against  Jefferson — Strong  elected  Governor  over  Gerry — Gore 
to  King — Conversation  with  Liston  about  6th  Article — Bayard  Died 
— King  to  Secretary  of  State — Attempted  Assassination  of  the  King 
— Moreau  defeats  the  Austrians  on  the  Rhine — Misunderstanding  be- 
tween Russia  and  the  Allies  increasing — Sweden  and  Russia  offended 
by  England's  Capturing  merchant  Ships  under  Convoy — Project  of 
uniting  the  northern  Powers  against  France  at  an  End — King  re- 
joices at  its  Failure — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Eaton  wishes  him 
to  buy  the  Presents  for  the  Bey  of  Tunis  promised  to  him  when 
Treaty  of  Peace  was  made — Has  no  Authority,  though  he  gets  an 
Estimate  of  Cost — Pickering  to  King — His  Removal  from  Office — 
Coalition  between  Adams  and  Jefferson — Marshall  appointed  Secre- 
tary of  State — Gore  to  King — Pickering  Removed — Pinckney  and 
Adams  for  President  and  Vice-President — Cabot  to  King — Pickering's 
Removal — Coalition  of  Adams  and  Jefferson — England  will  find  Pre- 
tence to  war  on  Commerce  of  United  States  and  France — King  to 
Secretary  of  State— N.  Webster's  History  of  pestilential  Diseases — 
G.  Morris  to  King — Their  Friends  are  in  sad  Anarchy — A  direct 
Tax  always  unpopular — King  to  Secretary  of  State — The  Lord  Chan- 
cellor thinks  a  gross  Sum  the  best  Way  of  settling  the  Differences 
under  the  6th  Article — Campaign  in  northern  Italy  .         .         .     240 

CHAPTER    XVIII. 

King  to  B.  West — Monument  to  Washington — Bushrod  Washington  to 
King — Proposes  to  publish  Life  of  Washington — King  to  Secretary 
of  State — Jewels  for  the  Bey  of  Tunis — To  N.  Webster — Robinson  ; 
Objections  to  publishing  his  Work — Jay  to  King — Impatient  to  learn 


CONTENTS.  XV 


PAGE 

about  the  Campaign  in  Europe — Affairs  in  United  States  not  Free 
from  Agitation — Federalists  not  active  or  united — Their  Opponents 
diligent,  united — Troup  to  King — Dr.  Romayne's  Plans — Separation, 
Bitterness,  and  Hostility  among  the  Federalists — Especially  against 
those  of  New  England — Cannot  say  who  will  be  the  Candidate  for 
Governor — King  to  General  Chalmers  and  the  Governor  of  Georgia 
— Trunk  containing  the  Georgia  Papers — McHenry  to  Pickering — 
Liston's  Letter  to  Buchanan — Pickering  to  King — Liston's  Letter — 
Explanation  by  Liston — Not  serious — Adams  says  there  is  no  Coali- 
tion with  Jefferson — Never  said  there  was  a  British  Faction  in  the 
Senate — Violent  Feelings  against  Hamilton — Goodhue  to  Pickering 
on  this  Subject — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Disasters  to  Austrian 
Army — Probable  Treaty  of  Peace  between  Austria  and  France — Dis- 
satisfaction between  northern  Powers  and  England — Influence  of 
England  on  the  Continent  less  than  at  any  Period  of  the  War   .         .     254 

CHAPTER   XIX. 

N.  Low  to  King — Suggests  other  Investments  than  U.  S.  Loans — King 
has  entire  Confidence  in  the  U.  S.  and  its  Loans — Hale  to  King — 
Hamilton's  Visit  to  Boston — Hale  for  the  Re-election  of  Adams — 
King  to  Lord  Grenville — American  Vessels  captured  off  Cadiz  under 
Pretence  of  Breach  of  Blockade — No  Notice  of  it  given — Request 
that  an  End  be  immediately  put  to  these  Abuses — To  H.  Dundas 
— Maryland  Bank  Stock — Statement  relative  to  it — F.  Ames  to  King 
— President's  Toast — Intrigues  about  the  Presidency — Hamilton's 
Visit — Adams's  Violent  Language — Speculations  relative  to  the 
coming  Election  and  the  Action  of  the  Jacobins — King  to  Secretary 
of  State — Treaty  between  England  and  Austria  loaning  Money  to  the 
Latter,  who  shall  not  make  a  separate  Peace — French  so  superior  to 
the  Austrians  they  may  be  obliged  to  make  Peace — Cabot  to  King 
— Adams  departing  from  the  Policy  of  1798  now  denounces  high 
Federalists — Congratulates  the  Country  that  King  is  in  his  Position 
Abroad 268 

1 

CHAPTER   XX. 

King  to  Pickering — Unfeigned  Regrets  at  the  Changes  in  the  executive 
Departments — Though  with  his  Reputation  pure  and  unblemished — 
His  Son  with  him — King  to  Adams — Danish  Frigate  resisted  a 
Search  of  a  British  Squadron — May  increase  the  Dissatisfaction 
of  northern  Powers  with  England — McHenry  to  King — Acknowl- 
edges with  Thanks  Faden's  Collection  of  Maps  and  Count  Rumford's 
Field-Piece — Presidential  Election — Bingham  to  King — Duane's 
Arrest  ordered  by  the  Senate — Absconded  until  after  Session  closed 
— Treated  as  a   persecuted  Patriot  and  Martyr  to   Liberty  of  the 


xvi  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


Press — Lack  of  Energy  in  the  Government  because  of  Jacobinical 
Principles — Government  moved  to  Washington — A  general  Peace 
would  be  advantageous  to  this  Country — King  to  Secretary  of  State 
— Austria  may  be  obliged  to  treat  with  France— English  Expedition 
probably  to  Belle  Isle — Search  of  Convoy  under  a  Danish  Frigate — 
May  lead  to  important  Consequences — Right  of  Search  cannot  be  sub- 
mitted to  by  Neutrals  as  a  Principle,  though  perhaps  in  a  modified 
Form— Blockade  at  Cadiz— Troup  to  King— New  York  Legislature 
consists  of  the  Essence  of  Jacobinism— Armstrong  likely  to  be  made 
Senator — Hamilton  has  been,  Burr  is  going,  to  the  East  .         .         .     281 

CHAPTER   XXL 

Cabot  to  King — Effect  of  Election  of  Adams  or  Pinckney  or  Jefferson  — 
Pinckney's  Election  would  array  true  Men  on  his  Side — Hamilton 
thinks  Jefferson  will  be  chosen — King  to  President  Adams — Envoys' 
Negotiation  with  France  probably  broken  off — Ames  to  King — 
Shallow  Reason,  Impulse,  Caprice,  and  Prejudice  for  Mission  to 
France — Unless  Federalists  unite  and  run  the  two  federal  Candi- 
dates, Jefferson  will  be  elected — Our  Government  is  republican, 
our  Opinions  democratic — Adams's  Ground  the  same  now  as  before 
— Federalists  never  knew  where  they  were — Clamor  loud  he  is  to  be 
sacrificed — Unless  Massachusetts  Electors  vote  for  Adams  and  General 
Pinckney  both,  Jefferson  will  be  elected — Adams  acts  as  if  he  did  not 
hate  him — Speculations  on  European  Affairs  as  affecting  those  of  U.  S. 
— King  to  Pickering — Cannot  explain  late  Occurrences  at  Home — 
Choice  of  Electors  in  New  England — May  not  the  Issue  of  the  Mis- 
sion to  France  influence  this? — Deprecates  the  Policy  of  exciting 
Prejudices  and  Passions  of  New  England — Liston's  Explanations  such 
as  he  expected — To  Secretary  of  State — Negotiations  between 
France  and  Austria  going  on  ;  both  recruiting  their  Armies — Troup 
to  King — Adams's  Letter  to  French  Consul — Jefferson  attacked  on 
Ground  of  his  religious  Opinions — Burr's  Return  from  the  East — 
Democrats  say  he  is  to  run  with  Jefferson  .....     291 

CHAPTER   XXII. 

King  to  Secy,  of  State — Expedition  to  Belle  Isle  failed — Envoys  in  Paris 
— To  Smith — Impressment  of  American  Seamen  in  Lisbon  by  the 
English — Complaint  properly  against  Portugal — To  Prest.  Adams — 
Unsettled  State  of  Relations  between  France  and  Austria  may 
hasten  the  Work  of  the  Envoys  at  Paris — Food  Riots  in  London — 
Ames  to  King — Will  not  decide  there  is  a  Coalition — But  too  much 
Complacency  of  Adams  towards  his  Antagonist  as  shown  here — A 
Creature  of  Impulse — Irritated  against  sound  Men — Thinks  it  would 
be  a  light  Matter  to  have  a  War  with  Jefferson,  and  the  Jacobins, 


CONTENTS.  xvii 


l'AGE 


would  prefer  Adams  to  Pinckney — Sedgwick  to  King — Passion 
displayed  in  Dismissal  of  Pickering  displayed  now  without  Disguise 
— Motives  that  led  to  the  Election  of  Adams  were  with  many  to 
prevent  that  of  Jefferson — Adams's  Resentment  aggravated  by  sub- 
sequent Events — He  does  not  conceal  his  Opinions — A  Consequence 
the  Disorganization  of  the  federal  Party — Marshall  says  Union  alone 
can  save  the  Country — On  Massachusetts  will  depend  the  Result  of 
the  presidential  Election — Cabot  to  King — Flow  to  secure  neutral 
Rights — King  and  Gore  quoted  as  thinking  Peace  not  improbable 
and  as  Proof  of  the  Wisdom  of  Adams's  Course         .         .         .         .301 

CHAPTER   XXIII. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Strange  Conduct  of  Emperor  of  Austria — 
Reasons  for  it — English  Envoys  to  be  received  at  the  Congress 
at  Luneville — Russia  dissatisfied  with  England — Depredations  on 
American  Commerce  in  West  Indies  due  to  pillaging  Spirit  of  English 
Officers — Mr.  Merry  to  succeed  Mr.  Piston — Troup  to  King — 
Hamilton  thinks  of  publishing  Grounds  of  his  Opposition  to  Adams 
— Laments  the  Scattering  of  Federalists — Insurrection  in  Virginia — 
King  to  Murray — Mode  of  Expenditure  of  Money  for  Claims  in  the 
Prize  Courts — Under  King's  Control — Character  of  them — W. 
Constable  to  King — Convention  with  France  signed — First  Consul's 
Toast  at  Feast  in  Celebration :  Perpetual  Amity  between  France 
and  the  United  States — King  to  Smith — The  President  approves  of 
Purchase  of  Jewels  for  Bey  of  Tunis  under  the  Circumstances — To 
Discourage  Expectation  of  future  Purchases — To  Secretary  of  State 
— Austria  probably  to  conclude  a  separate  Treaty  with  France — 
Crops  in  England  good — Not  sufficient  for  a  Year's  Supply — King 
to  Lord  Grenville — President's  Congratulations  on  the  King's  Escape 
from  Assassination — To  Secretary  of  State  on  same  Subject — Lord 
Grenville's  Answer  to  J.  White — Acknowledges  the  Receipt  of  a  Piece 
of  Plate  from  Lloyd's  for  Captain  Truxton,  to  be  sent  to  him — 
Lord  Grenville  to  King — Mr.  Soren's  Pamphlet — He  complains  of 
Inattention  to  his  Business — Denied  by  Lord  Grenville — King  to 
Secretary  of  State — Convention  with  France — Lord  Grenville  finds 
no  Fault  except  as  to  Convoys  and  the  Rights  of  Neutrals — King 
thought  Regulations  for  Trade  of  Neutrals  might  be  made  by  Convoys 
without  affecting  injuriously  the  Right  of  Search — Lord  Grenville  ad- 
mitted the  Fairness  of  the  Project — Mr.  Merry  the  Successor  of  Liston 
favorably  spoken  of  .         .  .         .         .         .         .         .         .         -313 

CHAPTER    XXIV. 

Mr.  Strickland  to  King — Reprinting  his  Paper  on  Agriculture  in  United 
States — Objects  to  minute  Division  of  Land — King  to  W.  Smith — 


XVI 1!  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Has  declined  to  advance  Funds  to  pay  for  Articles  ordered  by  Mr. 
Eaton  for  Bey  of  Tunis — They  should  be  paid  for  in  London  or 
Paris,  not  through  Traders — Troup  to  King — Strictures  on  Hamil- 
ton's Letter  to  the  President — General  Impression  injurious  to  him 
and  his  Party — Cabot  to  King — Treaty  with  France  cannot  be  a 
"Subject  of  Joy" — King  to  Secy,  of  State — Reports  his  Readiness 
to  confer  with  Ld.  Grenville  on  6th  Article — Relations  of  Austria 
and  England  with  France  about  Peace — Latter  wants  separate 
Treaties — England  seems  ready  now  to  support  the  First  Consul 
— King  will  push  Conference  on  6th  Article,  but  hopes  for  little 
while  War  lasts — Schoenbron  to  King — Announces  to  him  the  Ap- 
pointment of  Minister  Resident  and  Consul-General  from  Denmark 
to  U.  S. — King  to  Secy,  of  War — Maps — W.  Wilberforce  to  King — 
Abolition  of  the  slave  Trade — King  to  Eaton — Gives  Reasons  for 
not  ordering  the  Jewels  made  and  sent  to  Tunis — The  President  does 
not  see  the  Necessity,  but  is  impressed  with  the  Impolicy  of  sending 
them — Presents  from  America  possibly  sufficient — Urges  him  to  try 
to  extricate  the  Country  from  Promises  of  Others — To  Secy,  of 
State — Minister  from  Denmark,  why  not  simply  a  Consul — Wilber- 
force to  King — Friendly  Greetings — How  to  prosecute  Masters  of 
Vessels  breaking  the  Law  to  prevent  slave  Trade  by  American 
Vessels — Would  reporting  Names,  etc.,  to  the  Abolition  Society? 
— Troup  to  King — Adams  and  Pinckney  will  be  chosen — Hamilton 
prefers  Jefferson  to  Adams — Many  Answers  to  his  Pamphlet — 
King  to  Mr.  Netzel  relative  to  Conduct  of  two  American  Vessels 
against  a  Swedish  Cutter  .........     327 

CHAPTER   XXV. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — England  and  Austria  decline,  France  insists 
on  separate  Peace — France  hopes  to  effect  Reconciliation  with 
Russia — Prussia  cautious — Russia  displeased  with  England — Malta 
surrendered  to  the  English — France  would  revive  the  armed  Neu- 
trality— Effect  of  this  on  maritime  States — King  to  Wolcott — Suffi- 
cient Arms  manufactured  in  the  United  States — To  Secretary  of 
State — England  must  have  Grain — Will  take  all  United  States  can 
spare — Temper  of  England  favorable  to  Negotiations — Should  first 
settle  Matter  of  the  6th  Article — Proposal  to  pay  a  precise  Sum 
— Calculation  of  how  much — Should  not  exceed  ^400,000 — J. 
McHenry  to  King — Retired  from  Department  of  War — Jefferson 
and  Burr  President  and  Vice-President — King  to  G.  Morris — Peace 
more  uncertain — Effort  will  be  made  to  draw  United  States  into 
the  War — Our  Policy  Neutrality — Pickering  to  King — Relative  to  his 
Son — Result  of  the  presidential  Election — Jefferson  incapable  of 
removing  his  Opponents  from  Office — If  Treaty  with  France  ratified 


CONTENTS.  xix 


PEGE 


Navy  will  be  hauled  up — King  to  Eaton — Has,  under  the  Secretary's 
Instructions,  ordered  the  Jewels — If  any  Payments  in  making 
Treaties  hereafter,  make  them  as  small  as  possible — Cabot  to  King 
— Speculations  on  Result  of  the  Election — Does  not  think  there  will 
be  violent  Changes  in  Office — All  calm — Less  Exultation  on  one  Side, 
much  less  Depression  on  the  other — Hale  to  King — Federalists  prefer 
Burr  to  Jefferson — Whichever  chosen,  Men  of  Prudence  do  not  expect 
the  Evils  predicted,  if  either  elected — Peter  Porcupine's  Writings 
serve  to  feed  Jealousies  between  us  and  Great  Britain — Troup  to  King 
— Hamilton  says  if  Burr  is  elected  he  will  withdraw  from  the  Party 
and  public  Concerns — He  would  ratify  French  Treaty — His  Letter 
shows  he  wants  Discretion — The  Future  very  uncertain    .         .         .     342 

CHAPTER   XXVI. 

McHenry  to  King — Jefferson  or  Burr  equal  Votes — Whichever  chosen, 
Changes  in  Conduct  of  the  Government — Burr's  Professions  of 
Fidelity  to  the  Wishes  and  Expectation  of  the  United  States — Opposi- 
tion in  violent  State  of  Apprehension  lest  Jefferson  be  not  chosen — 
King  to  Secretary  of  State — The  King's  Title  changed  by  adding 
"and  Ireland  " — Pickering  to  King — Jay  nominated  as  Chief  Justice, 
but  refused — Both  Parties  reprobate  the  Convention  with  France — 
Election  still  doubtful — If  Burr,  fewer  Changes  in  Office  ;  If  Jefferson, 
more — Speculations  on  the  possible  Result — Lawrance  to  King — 
Convention  with  France — General  Wish  it  should  be  taken  as  it  is — 
Changes  may  bring  King  Home,  where  he  will  be  cordially  received 
— King  to  Secretary  of  State — France  and  Austria  to  treat  separately 
— Probable  maritime  War  between  England  and  the  Rest  of  Europe 
— This  should  favor  speedy  Adjustment  of  our  Affairs  with  England — 
Asked  to  discuss  the  Arrangements  respecting  the  6th  Article  with 
Mr.  Anstey,  Lord  Grenville  pleading  Press  of  Business — If  Result 
satisfactory  well,  if  not  will  fall  back  upon  an  explanatory  Article — 
Lord  Grenville  to  King — Explanation  of  Captain  Bainbridge's  enter- 
ing Harbor  of  Constantinople  with  Algerine  Flag  flying — Objection 
made — Asked  to  be  put  under  the  Protection  of  the  English  Minis- 
ter— To  take  down  Algerine  Flag  and  substitute  the  American 
Pendant — Hale  to  King — Senate  ratified  the  Convention  with  France 
with  Modifications — Negotiations  with  France  show  a  Want  of  Firm- 
ness— Prefers  Burr  to  Jefferson — Richard  Peters  to  King — The 
pending  presidential  Election — Turnbull  to  King — Offer  of  Services 
of  his  Firm  at  Gibraltar  to  the  Consul  there      .....     360 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — England  notifies  Members  of  the  Northern 
Confederacy  that  she  would  use  all  her  Resources  in  Defence  of  her 


XX  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Rights — If  Prussia  joins  she  is  cut  off  from  the  Continent — Public 
Opinion  disturbed  in  England — Present  Moment  favorable  for  a 
satisfactory  Settlement  of  United  States  Affairs — Difficulties,  In- 
decision, and  Delay  by  Ministers — Urges  Reforms  in  Admiralty 
Courts,  and  Settlement  of  Questions  under  6th  Article — W.  Wilber- 
force  to  King — Confidence  in  him — King  to  Pickering — England 
excluded  from  the  Continent — America  will  adhere  to  her  old 
Maxims — Cabot  to  King — Federalists  prefer  Burr — Hope  that  King 
will  not  come  Home — Northern  Coalition  unfavorable  to  Neutrals 
— King  to  Bainbridge,  relative  to  the  Misunderstanding  at  Constan- 
tinople— King  to  Stoddard — Same  Subject — Bainbridge  to  King — 
Report  of  the  Case — King  to  Truxton — Lloyd's  Gift  of  Plate  to  him 
— King  to  Troup — News  of  Jefferson's  Election — Hopes  for  the  Best 
— Northern  Confederation — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Tenor  of 
the  Northern  Confederacy  not  exactly  known — Effect  on  Hanover 
— League  a  hostile  Aggression  to  be  resisted  with  Force  by  England 
— Conference  with  Lord  Grenville — If  Blockade  of  the  Baltic,  the 
United  States  would  claim  to  enjoy  her  Rights  of  Trade — Lord 
Grenville  said  a  Relaxation  with  Reference  to  the  United  States 
might  be  agreed  to — Interruption  of  Trade  through  New  Orleans — 
Change  in  English  Ministry — Pitt  and  Colleagues  have  resigned  on 
Question  of  the  Emancipation  of  the  Catholics — Duke  of  Portland 
First  Lord  of  the  Treasury — Thought  a  Proposal  will  be  made  to 
France  to  treat  for  Peace — Disagreement  among  Northern  Con- 
federacy— Russia's  Intrigues — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Regrets  his 
Resignation,  both  on  public  and  private  Grounds — Had  hoped  to 
settle  with  him  the  Questions  under  Discussion  between  the  Govern- 
ments— Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King  .......     374 

CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

Troup  to  King — Counting  presidential  Vote — Burr's  Election  prob- 
able— Hamilton  profoundly  chagrined — Democrats  disappointed — 
King  to  Secretary  of  State — New  Ministers  not  yet  in  Office — Ratifica- 
tion of  French  Convention  will  benefit  our  Commerce — To  Ld.  Gren- 
ville relative  to  Taxes  levied  in  Scotland  against  Major  Lenox — They 
should  not  be  levied — Pickering  to  King — Gives  Action  of  the  Senate 
on  the  Convention  with  France — Election  of  President  still  in  Doubt 
— Suggests  that  Adams  may  be  nominated  for  Governor  of  Massa- 
chusetts with  Gerry — Hopes  there  is  enough  good  Sense  to  reject 
both — Lawrance  to  King — No  Election  yet — King  to  Secretary  of 
State — The  King's  Illness  causes  Delay  in  forming  new  Cabinet — 
Northern  Confederacy  still  unsettled — England  will  resist  it — Nego- 
tiations between  Great  Britain  and  United  States  at  a  Stand — Vice- 
Admiralty  Courts  to  be  reformed — King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Cap- 
ture and  Condemnation  of  S.  Girard's  Ship,  on  Ground  he  is  a  French- 


CONTENTS.  xxi 


PAGE 

man — Denial  of  this — lie  is  an  American  Citizen — Services  in  yellow 
Fever  in  1793,  in  Philadelphia — King  to  Secretary  of  State — The 
King's  Sickness  continues — No  Business— King  to  Troup — Condition 
of  Affairs  in  Europe — Lord  St.  Vincent  promises  to  repress  the  West 
India  Privateers — King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Summary  of  Matters 
in  Dispute — To  T.  Erskine — Impressment  of  Seamen — Suggests  that 
neither  Party  shall  impress  on  the  high  Seas — Erskine  to  King — Says 
he  has  sent  his  Letter  to  Lord  St.  Vincent — King  to  Lord  Hawkes- 
bury— Captures  of  American  Vessels  bound  to  an  Enemy's  Colony 
not  according  to  the  Law  of  Nations — Cause  great  Complaints — 
Demands  a  precise  Instruction  to  Officers  in  West  India  Seas  to 
put  an  End  to  this — King  to  G.  Rose — Arbitrary  and  oppressive 
Conduct  of  revenue  Officers  in  the  Port  of  London  ....     390 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 

Cabot  to  King — Jefferson's  Inaugural  gives  Federalists  much  Hope — Bad 
Omen  if  King  leaves  his  Post — Persuaded  England  will  triumph — 
King  to  Southgate — Expects  a  Successor — Affectionate  Expressions 
— Cabot  to  King — Jefferson's  Speech  more  liked  by  Federalists  than 
Democrats — Troup  to  King — Similar  Opinion — Cabinet  and  other 
Appointments — Generally  believed  he  was  not  to  be  suspended — 
New  York  Appointments — Right  claimed  by  Gov.  Clinton — Lord 
St.  Vincent  to  T.  Erskine — Expressing  high  Respect  for  Mr.  King 
— Hard  to  draw  a  Line  on  Impressments — King  to  Secretary  of  State 
— New  Ministry — Sir  Hyde  Parker  gone  to  Baltic  with  a  Fleet — 
Debate  in  Parliament  on  free  Bottoms  make  free  Goods — Neu- 
tral Rights — Overtures  of  Peace — Affairs  of  United  States  delayed 
but  pushed — Cession  of  Louisiana  and  Floridas  to  France — Fears 
injurious  Effects  upon  the  Union — Gen.  Collot's  proposed  Voyage  to 
United  States — Importance  of  having  an  able  Minister  at  Paris — 
King  to  Lawrance — Had  not  the  Ministers  gone  out,  believes  he 
would  have  been  able  to  settle  United  States  Affairs  satisfactorily — 
Cabot  to  King — England  will  triumph — King  to  remain — No  war 
with  England — Some  Changes  of  Officers  made — King  to  Lord 
Hawkesbury — Vices  of  the  Vice-Admiralty  Courts  in  West  Indies 
and  Nova  Scotia,  and  Reforms  suggested — Asks  when  the  Delays 
in  taking  up  the  Negotiations  with  the  United  States  will  cease — 
King  to  Addington — Relative  to  Commission  under  6th  Article — 
Asks  for  a  Decision — To  Secretary  of  State — English  Ships  excluded 
from  the  Continent — France  supplied  by  Neutrals  from  England — 
Peace  yet  uncertain — If  Egypt  evacuated,  Peace  more  probable         .     406 

CHAPTER    XXX. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Advises  Publication  of   his  last  Letter  to 
Lord  Hawkesbury  on  the  Seizure  of  Vessels  loaded   with  Spanish 


xxii  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Goods,  and  the  Answers  from  Lord  Hawkesbury  and  Duke  of  Port- 
land— Sentence  of  the  Vice-Admiralty  Courts  erroneous — King  to 
Secretary  of  State — English  Fleet  at  Copenhagen — Death  of 
Emperor  Paul — Probable  Break  of  Northern  League — Nelson's 
Victory  at  Copenhagen — King  to  Sir  W.  Scott,  asking  how  long 
before  Appointment  of  new  Judges  in  Vice- Admiralty  Courts — 
King  to  Strickland— Estimate  of  Jefferson— King  to  Secretary  of 
State — United  States  Affairs,  though  delayed,  may  be  settled  on 
reasonable  Principles — Lord  Hawkesbury  promised  early  Attention 
— Mr.  Addington  favors  Settlement  on  the  6th  Article  on  Terms 
proposed — Obliged  to  Mr.  Sitgreaves  for  his  Help— King  to  Secretary 
of  State — Action  at  Copenhagen — Russia  to  re-establish  friendly  Re- 
lations with  England — Prussia  has  taken  Possession  of  Hanover — 
Negotiations  between  Paris  and  London  going  on — The  King's 
Relapse — Uncertainty  of  his  Recovery — Jewels  etc.,  sent  to  Bey  of 
Tunis — Wants  Money  to  pay  for  them  and  for  various  Salaries  and 
Commissions — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Interviews  with  Minis- 
ters on  several  Matters,  especially  the  Debts — Reasons  for  a  more 
favorable  Disposition  towards  United  States — King  to  Lord  Eldon 
— Asks  his  Attention  to  the  Matter  of  English  Debts  and  urging  a 
Settlement — King  to  Troup — Jefferson's  Speech  well  received — 
English  Affairs — Cabot  to  King — Ellsworth  gives  a  gloomy  Account 
of  Europe — Hopes  King  will  not  return  Home         ....     426 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 

Vargas  to  King — Cession  of  Louisiana  to  France  Result  of  Volney's  Sug- 
gestions— Possibly  to  be  used  as  a  Compensation  to  the  United  States 
for  Indemnities  demanded — Lord  Buchan  to  King — Life  of  General 
Washington — A.  Stephens  to  King — Wishes  to  write  a  Life — Has 
Lord  Buchan's  and  Others'  Papers — King  to  Secretary  of  State — 
United  States  Frigates  in  the  Mediterranean  may  check  Insolence  of 
Barbary  States — To  Lord  Eldon — Urges  warmly  the  Resumption 
and  Settlement  of  American  Affairs — To  Secretary  of  State — Admiral 
Parker  ordered  Home — Bill  for  Vice-Admiralty  Courts  in  America 
— Sir  W.  Scott  to  King — Glad  he  approves  the  Bill — Troup  to  King 
— Democracy  triumphs — Gallatin  Secretary  of  Treasury — An  Outrage 
— Sedgwick  to  King — Presidential  Election — Preferred  Burr,  who 
could  not  administer  Government  without  federal  Aid,  which  he  could 
only  get  by  preserving  their  System — Jefferson's  Principles  absolutely 
opposed  to  them — Hence  Burr  supported — Jefferson's  Speech  the 
Result  of  his  Timidity — His  Followers  disgusted — His  Attachment 
to  his  Friends  shown  by  violent  Removals  from  lucrative  Offices — 
Cabot  to  King — Regrets  he  is  disposed  to  resign — His  Opinions  have 
generally  coincided  with  those  of  his  Friends  at  Home — Troup  to 
King — Lands  look  up — New  York  prospering — Jefferson's  Removals 
from  Office — Burr — Marriage  of  his  Daughter — Hamilton's  small 
Charges — Edward  Livingston's  Appointment     .....     447 


CONTENTS.  xxiii 


CHAPTER    XXXII. 


PAGE- 


King  to  Addington — Complaint  of  Abuses  to  American  Vessels  brought 
into  English  Ports — To  Lord  Hawkesbury — Illegal  Proceedings  in 
Vice-Admiralty  Court  in  Gibraltar — King  to  Secretary  of  State — 
Question  of  Debts  in  the  Cabinet — Addington's  liberal  Views  on  this 
and  other  pending  Matters — Hopes  of  a  speedy  Decision  on  them — 
King  to  Troup — Peace  the  earnest  Wish  of  Ministers — Probable 
Convention  limiting  the  Right  of  Search — To  Secretary  of  State — 
Letter  from  Lord  Hawkesbury  relative  to  Depredations  in  West 
Indies — Conference,  among  other  Topics,  on  Cession  of  Louisiana  to 
France — His  strong  Feeling  against  it — We  preferred  it  in  the  Hands 
of  Spain  or  transferred  to  United  States — Report  of  King's  Advo- 
cate on  Vice-Admiralty  Courts — King  to  Secretary  of  State — The  King 
attends  to  Business — Affairs  in  Egypt — Probable  Peace  between  Eng- 
land and  Northern  Powers — Threatened  French  Invasion  of  Eng- 
land— Harvests  good — King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — By  President's 
Direction  he  presses  the  Settlement  of  the  Reform  of  the  Prize 
Courts  in  West  Indies — H.  Lee  to  King — Expressions  of  Friendship 
and  Regard — Begins  to  doubt  Jefferson's  professed  Moderation — 
King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Demands  the  Discharge  of  an  American 
Shipmaster  because  not  liable  for  Charge  against  him  in  an  English 
Court— To  Lord  Eldon — Asking  if  he  has  given,  as  promised,  his 
Opinions  on  the  Debts,  etc. — To  Lord  Hawkesbury  about  Cunning- 
ham the  American  Shipmaster — Bird,  Savage,  &  Bird  to  King — 
General  Allen's  Affairs — King  to  Addington — Urging  him  to  bring 
the  Questions  pending  before  the  Cabinet — To  the  Secretary  of  State 
— Parliament  prorogued — Law  regulating  Prize  Courts  passed — 
French  Government  may  not  ratify  the  Convention  with  United 
States        ............     463 

CHAPTER   XXXIII. 

King  still  at  his  Post — To  Lord  Hawkesbury — Desires  to  bring  Discussions 
to  speedy  Issues — To  Secretary  of  State — Dale's  Squadron  in  the 
Mediterranean  will  have  good  Influence — Ministry  promised  Deci- 
sions— To  Commodore  Dale — Hospitable  Offer  of  Supplies  from 
British  Ports — Presents  to  Bey  of  Tunis — King  to  Secretary  of  State 
— Continental  Affairs — Convention  between  England  and  Russia — 
Enemy's  Goods  on  neutral  Ships  liable  to  Capture — Right  of  Search 
of  Vessels  under  Convoy  abandoned — Duroc,  French  Ambassador, 
strove  to  thwart  Negotiations — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Bill  for 
regulating  Vice-Admiralty  Courts  a  Law — Scott  to  King — Answer  to 
Congratulations  on  Russian  Convention,  etc. — King  to  Gore — 
Patience  with  Ministry  almost  exhausted — King  to  Troup — Threat- 
ened   French    Invasion — King   to   Secretary    of    State — Doubts  the 


Xxiv  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


proposed  French  Invasion — Difficulties  of  French  in  Egypt  increase 
— Cahot  to  King — Spirit  of  the  Country  more  democratic  than  the 
Form — King's  Tour  on  the  Continent — Hale  to  King — Wishes  King 
to  return  Home — Cabot  to  King — Hopes  England  will  not  make 
Peace,  but  carry  on  the  War — Jefferson's  Answer  to  New  Haven 
Remonstrants — Troup  to  King — Jefferson's  System — Burr  goading 
him  on — Hamilton  disgusted — King  to  remain  till  End  of  eight 
Years — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Sends  Atlas  and  Maps — Turnbull 
to  King — Malta  a  free  Port — Recommends  Higgins  as  Consul — 
King  to  Secretary  of  State — Affairs  at  Tunis — To  Eaton — Cloths 
for  Bey  of  Tunis        ..........     482 

CHAPTER   XXXIV. 

King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Project  of  Convention  concerning  6th  Article 
agreed  to — Hopes  other  Questions  will  soon  be  settled — King  to  Sec- 
retary of  State — Conference  with  Lord  Hawkesbury — The  Awards  in 
full  Satisfaction  of  all  Claims — Lord  Hawkesbury  saw  no  material 
Objection  to  Settlement  of  all  other  Questions,  except  relative  to  the 
Port  of  New  Orleans — Commission  under  7th  Article  to  reassemble — 
King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Detention  of  American  Vessels,  instead 
of  warning  them  of  Blockade  of  French  Ports,  and  demands  Release 
of  the  Vessels — King  to  S.  Hanbury — Maryland  Bank  Stock — King 
to  Secretary  of  State — Blockade  of  Havre — Continental  Affairs — To 
Lord  Hawkesbury — Demanding  Release  of  an  American  Seaman 
about  to  be  tried  for  Mutiny — Cabot  to  King — Often  able  to  supply 
Facts,  etc.,  through  him,  but  without  compromising  him — England's 
Empire  of  the  Sea  renders  her  invincible — Wilberforce  to  King — 
Desires  a  general  Abolition  of  the  slave  Trade — Hopes  for  Help  from 
Bonaparte — King  to  Lords  Hawkesbury  and  Eldon  pressing  for  a 
Settlement  of  Claims — Troup  to  King,  about  William  Coleman — 
Cabot  to  King — Always  avoided  compromising  him — Glad  he  will 
remain  in  England — Neutral  Rights — Mr.  Erving — King  to  Secretary 
of  State — Continental  Affairs — Concordat  of  France  with  the  Pope 
important  to  the  Stability  of  the  First  Consul — To  Lord  Eldon — 
Maryland  Bank  Stock — Dawson's  Notification  to  King  that  the  Presi- 
dent wishes  him  to  remain — Anecdote  of  Rumford     ....     501 

CHAPTER   XXXV. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Impatient  at  Delays  in  Negotiation — To  J. 
Madison — Delays — Peace  with  France  and  Revision  of  Treaty  with 
England  about  Seamen  and  Contraband  seem  to  require  a  Plan  to 
be  adopted — A  Conference  at  Home  if  Mr.  King  is  to  conduct  the 
Negotiation  advisable — To  Secretary  of  State — Preliminaries  of  Peace 


CONTENTS.  xxv 


PAGE 

with  France — F ranee  may  turn  Attention  to  Louisiana — J.  Q.  Adams 
to  King — Return  to  America — How  much  the  Country  improved — 
Removals  from  Office  a  Subject  of  Censure — Mr.  King  not  to  be  re- 
moved— Troup  to  King — Removals  from  Office  in  New  York — Fed- 
eral Party  dying  out — Anecdotes  of  Jefferson  and  Chancellor  Liv- 
ingston— King  to  Secretary  of  State — Conferences  with  the  Lord 
Chancellor  and  Lord  Hawkesbury  on  6th  Article — King  to  Secretary 
of  State — Further  Conferences  on  same  Subject,  on  the  7th  Article, 
and  on  the  Maryland  Bank  Stock — King  to  J.  Madison — The  Course 
he  will  pursue  if  Objections  persisted  in    .         .         .         .         .         .     520 

Appendix  I 537 

Appendix  II 540 

Appendix  III 543 


THE  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE  OF 

RUFUS   KING. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Mr.  King  expected  early  in  1797  soon  to  return  Home — In  1797  he  made 
Arrangements  for  a  longer  Residence  abroad — Sends  his  Sons  to  Harrow 
— Once  a  great  Smoker — Gave  up  Smoking — Pickering  to  King — Agree- 
ment with  General  Maitland  relative  to  St.  Domingo — Cabot  to  King — 
President's  Alienation  from  Hamilton  and  his  Friends — Unsuccessful 
Endeavor  to  change  this — Gerry  a  Solitary — Murray's  Nomination — The 
Directory  said  to  intend  sending  Lafayette  as  Ambassador  to  the  United 
States — Cannon  for  Charleston — King  to  be  sent  Ambassador  to  Russia — 
Marshall  chosen  for  Congress  from  Virginia — Virginia  and  Kentucky  Reso- 
lutions— Troup  to  King — Federal  Success  in  New  York — Jay's  Admin- 
istration not  successful — The  President  at  Braintree — King  to  Secretary  of 
State — French  military  Movements — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Detention 
of  Ship  Prosper,  with  United  States  Arms  on  Board — Pickering  relative 
to  Misinterpretation  of  18th  Article  of  the  Treaty — King  to  Lord  Gren- 
ville— No  News  of  Troubles  of  Commission  in  Philadelphia — Pickering — 
Trial  of  Insurgents  in  Pennsylvania — King  to  Hamilton — Continental 
Affairs. 

Mr.  King  had,  at  the  date  of  the  letters  which  closed  the 
previous  volume,  passed  more  than  two  years  and  a  half  in 
performing  the  duties  of  his  mission  in  England  satisfac- 
torily to  his  government,  with  advantage  to  his  country,  and 
agreeably  to  himself  in  the  pleasant  relations  which  he  en- 
joyed socially  and  with  the  ministry  of  the  country  to  which 
he  was  accredited.     If  we  look  back,  however,  it  will  be 

VOL.   Ill — I  T 


RUFUS  KING.  [i799 


found  that  he  had  not  anticipated  remaining  so  long  abroad, 
for  writing  from  London,  March  17,  1797,  to  his  brother-in- 
law,  Dr.  Southgate,  he  said  *  : 

"  We  are  so  far  apart  and  both  at  a  period  of  life  at  which  we 
are  liable  to  occurrences  that  may  prevent  our  reunion,  that  I 
feel  the  force  of  that  uncertainty,  which  darkens  the  prospect  of 
our  meeting.  I  hope  for  the  pleasure  of  the  event,  and  flatter 
myself  that  it  will  not  be  long  postponed.  Where  I  am  now  I  am 
not  quite  my  own  master,  but  it  is  not  my  intention  to  remain 
long  in  England  ;  and  it  will  be  one  of  the  earliest  pleasures  of 
my  return  home  to  visit  and  embrace  those  branches  of  my  family 
from  which  I  have  been  so  long  separated." 

The  close  of  the  administration  of  Washington,  with  the 
uncertainties  of  the  changed  condition  under  the  adminis- 
tration of  Adams,  may  have  been  one  of  the  causes  of  this 
thought  of  returning  home  soon  ;  but  it  seems  to  have  con- 
tinued to  occupy  his  mind,  for  we  find  in  his  private  corre- 
spondence with  N.  Low,  in  whose  hands  his  property  in  the 
United  States  was  placed,  and  who  was  for  long  years  his 
warm  friend,  that  in  the  summer  of  1798  he  was  determined 
to  purchase  a  farm,  upon  which  he  would  settle  himself 
when  he  returned.  In  October  2d  of  that  year,  Mr.  R. 
Troup  f  in  a  letter  on  the  general  affairs  of  the  country 
says: 

"  Do  you  know  that  Mr.  Low  has  communicated  to  me  your 
wish  to  purchase  a  farm  on  the  North  River  in  Dutchess  County  ; 
and  as  I  am  better  acquainted  in  that  quarter  than  he  is,  I  have 
undertaken  to  assist  him  in  procuring  information  for  you." 

He  then  names  several  properties  again  on  November  i6thj 
of  the  same  year,  when  he  says  :  "  Quitting  the  subject  of 
farms,  I  proceed  to  give  you  a  general  sketch  of  our  politi- 
cal state."  These,  as  well  as  other  evidences  of  an  expecta- 
tion of  returning  home,  did  not,  however,  interfere  with  the 

*  Vol.  ii.,  p.  160.  f  Vol.  ii.,  p.  433.  %  Vol.  ii.,  p.  464. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  3 

faithful  performance  of  his  duties,  which  became  daily  more 
important  under  the  changing  aspects  of  European  politics, 
and  especially  of  our  relations  with  France.  The  fact  that 
the  conduct  of  his  mission  was  satisfactory  to,  and  in  accord- 
ance with  the  views  of,  the  administration  of  the  new  Presi- 
dent, and  that  his  old  and  trusted  friend  Mr.  Pickering  was 
the  medium  through  whom  the  foreign  affairs  of  the  govern- 
ment were  shaped  and  communicated  to  him,  probably  soon 
after  led  to  a  change  of  views  on  Mr.  King's  part,  which 
was  strengthened  by  the  expressions  of  satisfaction  from  his 
friends  at  home  that  he  was  the  Minister  in  England. 
Hamilton,  among  others,  wrote  *  October  2,  1798. 

"  Why  does  not  Gouverneur  Morris  come  home  ?  His  talents 
are  wanted.  Men  like  him  do  not  superabound.  Indeed  I  wish 
that  you  were  here  rather  than  where  you  are,  though  I  think 
your  position  an  important  one  at  the  existing  juncture.  But  we 
want  to  infuse  more  abilities  into  the  management  of  our  internal 
affairs." 

He  found  himself  at  this  time  in  a  position  of  great  and 
growing  influence  in  behalf  of  his  country,  with  whose  gov- 
ernment he  was  in  hearty  accord  in  its  policy  towards  Eng- 
land, and  of  pleasant  relations  with  the  English  Ministers, 
who  recognized  his  intelligence,  firmness  in  maintaining  his 
country's  cause,  and  courteous  and  dignified  demeanor, 
while  at  the  same  time  he  enjoyed  close  and  confidential 
intercourse  with  his  colleagues  representing  other  countries, 
as  well  as  with  distinguished  men  of  all  countries  then  in 
England. 

His  own  home,  where  everything  contributed  to  his  hap- 
pinesss  and  where  a  charming  wife  presided  quietly  over  a 
household  in  which  mutual  esteem  and  confidence  were  the 
ruling  traits,  attracted  all  who  came  within  its  hospita- 
ble and  quiet  influence.  Though  there  were  not  many  of 
his  own  countrymen  at  that  time  abroad  who  shared  his 
intimacy,  there  were  several  who  were  lifelong  friends  :  Mr. 

*  Vol.  ii.,  p.  427. 


KUFUS  KING.  [1799 


and  Mrs.  Christopher  Gore,  Col.  John  Trumbull,  and  Mr. 
Samuel  Cabot,  with  whom  his  intercourse  was  of  the  pleas- 
antest  character  and  with  whom  he  could  counsel  at  times 
when  new  questions  should  arise  and  demand  prompt  and 
decided  action. 

Thus  agreeably  situated,  there  is  no  more  said  of  return- 
ing home,  and  Mr.  King  entered  upon  arrangements  which 
betokened  a  continued  residence  abroad.  He  had,  during 
the  summer  months,  left  London  for  some  of  the  seashore 
resorts,  or  inland  watering-places,  where  his  family  could 
enjoy  the  benefits  of  country  air,  and  he  himself  relaxation 
from  the  confining  business  of  his  office,  which  at  that 
period,  as  the  correspondence  shows,  made  a  greater  demand 
upon  his  time  and  personal  attention  than  in  later  years  ;  for 
the  details  of  duties  had  not  then  been  portioned  off  to 
various  officers,  and  the  Minister  was  called  upon  to  act  in 
cases  which  were  afterwards  otherwise  provided  for. 

We  shall  see  that  about  this  time  he  rented  a  country 
place  for  a  term  of  years,  and  that  he  made  provision  for 
the  education  of  his  three  eldest  sons,  who  had  been 
at  private  schools.  They  had  arrived  at  an  age  when  they 
might  profit  from  a  more  systematic  course  of  studies  with 
the  competition  which,  among  intelligent  boys,  stimulates  to 
greater  efforts.  He  made  a  careful  examination  of  the  dif- 
ferent public  schools,  and  finally  selected  that  of  Harrow,  * 
then  under  the  charge  of  Dr.  Drury,  as  offering  the  most 
advantages  for  thorough  and  careful  discipline  and  excellent 
scholarship  ;  and  after  a  clear  understanding  with  Dr.  Drury 
to  advance  them  as  rapidly  in  their  studies  as  their  abilities 
would  permit,  he  sent  his  two  eldest  sons,  being  then  eleven 
and  ten  years  old,  to  him,  in  full  confidence  in  the  system 

*  Harrow  School  and  Its  Surroundings,  by  Percy  M.  Thornton. 

"  The  sons  of  Rufus  King,  a  distinguished  American  Minister,  early  in  the 
19th  century,  were  Harrovians  sent  to  the  Hill  because  social  distinctions  were 
there  unknown." — P.  363. 

No  authority  for  this  statement  is  given.  Among  their  fellow-students  were 
Lord  Byron,  Sir  Robert  Peel,  Lord  Aberdeen,  Lord  Palmerston. — Ed. 


1 7 99 J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  5 

of  the  school  and  in  the  head  master.  His  third  son  was 
placed  in  charge  of  a  private  tutor  for  the  present.  It  may 
be  here  said,  that  he  never  had  reason  to  regret  the  selection 
he  had  made,  Dr.  Drury  entering  heartily  into  the  plans 
agreed  upon,  the  boys  helping  him  in  carrying  them  out,  by 
diligent  and  intelligent  study  and  by  a  manly  deportment, 
for  which  they  were  constantly  commended. 

There  is  an  anecdote  of  Mr.  King  related  by  his  eldest 
son,  John  A.  King,  which  is  interesting  in  many  ways.  Be- 
fore he  went  to  England  he  had  been  an  inveterate  smoker ; 
so  much  so  that  the  room  in  which  he  worked  was  always 
full  of  the  fumes  and  smell  of  tobacco.  It  may  be  recalled 
that  in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Kilham  *he  had  asked  about  "  honest 
Nat.  Carter.  Does  he  think  of  me  as  he  smokes  his  pipe  ? 
If  he  does,  pray  tell  him  that  I  am  gratified,  that  my  idea 
associates  with  agreeable  objects  ;  for  such  alone  pass  the 
mind  of  a  hearty  smoker."  When  Mr.  King  reached  Eng- 
land, he  found  that  the  gentlemen  there  did  not  smoke ;  so 
he  gave  up  the  habit  and  never  resumed  it.  The  effect  of 
example  was  shown  in  the  lives  of  his  three  eldest  sons,  who 
were  educated  in  England  and  afterwards  in  France ;  they 
never  smoked.  Under  the  rules  at  Harrow  smoking  was 
positively  forbidden. 

The  correspondence  in  this  volume  opens  with  a  letter  from 
T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

"  Department  of  State,  April  22,  1799." 

In  this  letter  Mr.  Pickering  sends  a  copy  of  an  agreement 
made  with  General  Maitland  and  Mr.  Liston,  the  British 
Minister,  relative  to  the  intercourse  of  the  United  States  and 
Great  Britain  with  St.  Domingo,  and  specifies  two  articles, 
which  at  first  had  met  with  objections,  but  were  finally 
adopted, 

"  Providing  that  the  commercial  vessels  of  both  nations  should 
be  restrained  from  entering  the  port  or  ports  of  St.  Domingo  till 

*  Vol.  ii.,  p.  604. 


6  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

a  certain  day  be  fixed.  Our  objections  did  not  proceed  from  any 
desire  to  obtain  for  our  commerce  the  earliest  market,  in  prefer- 
ence to  the  British,  for  we  considered  that  the  operations  of  Great 
Britain  in  St.  Domingo,  had  essentially  contributed  to  that  state 
of  things  which  opened  to  the  United  States  the  prospect  of  a 
lucrative  commerce  with  the  Island  ;  and  that  her  fleet  alone 
could  ensure  protection  to  our  commerce,  as  well  as  her  own  ; 
but  Dr.  Stevens  arriving,  as  we  have  reason  to  believe,  at  Cape 
Francois  by  the  Tenth  or  Twelfth  of  April,  we  expected  him  to 
make  an  arrangement  with  Toussaint  in  a  few  days,  which  would 
enable  the  President  to  proclaim  a  renewal  of  the  commerce  of 
the  United  States,  perhaps  two  or  three  weeks  sooner  than  if  he 
awaited  the  result  of  Genl.  Maitland's  negotiation  ;  and  knowing 
that  our  merchants  were  on  tiptoe  to  recommence  that  trade,  we 
wished  to  avoid  giving  them  or  others  any  pretence  to  complain 
of  delay,  and  especially  that  we  were  sacrificing  their  interest  to 
promote  that  of  the  British  merchants. 

"  However  General  Maitland,  who  is  perfectly  acquainted  with 
Toussaint  and  the  affairs  of  St.  Domingo,  having  strongly  ex- 
pressed his  apprehension  that  the  just  interests  of  Great  Britain, 
and  especially  the  safety  of  the  West  India  Colonies,  would  be 
hazarded  if,  by  the  previous  arrangements  with  Dr.  Stevens, 
Toussaint  should  consider  himself  secure  of  obtaining  all  neces- 
sary supplies  from  the  United  States,  and  also  that  the  existing 
orders  to  the  British  cruizers  on  that  station  might  occasion  vexa- 
tious and  injurious  interruptions  to  our  vessels  destined  for  St. 
Domingo,  which  by  the  proposed  delay  of  a  few  weeks  might  be 
prevented  ;  and  considering  finally,  how  important  and  essential 
to  our  respective  interests  it  was,  that  a  perfect  harmony  should 
exist  between  the  two  nations,  and  particularly  respecting  the  ob- 
ject in  question,  we  assented  to  the  fifth  and  sixth  propositions 
before  mentioned." 

Mr.  Pickering  says  that  Mr.  King  will  see  that  the  instruc- 
tions given  to  Dr.  Stevens  in  relation  to  a  renewal  of  the 
trade,  go  as  far  as  any  that  could  be  proposed  to  Toussaint 
by  Great  Britain. 

*'  Yet  for  the  reasons  assigned  we  saw  no  middle  course,  con- 
sistently with  the  safety  of  our  trade.     At  the  same  time  we  con- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE. 


sidered  the  terms  as  perfectly  compatible  with  the  ultimate 
dependence  of  St.  Domingo  on  France.  It  is  not,  however,  to  be 
denied,  nor  have  we  aimed  at  any  concealment,  that  we  have 
strong  expectations  that  Toussaint  will  declare  the  Island  inde- 
pendent. Unquestionably  he  has  long  contemplated  that  event. 
But  it  is  absolutely  false,  what  Hedouville  declared  in  his  last  Pro- 
clamation, that  the  United  States  had  intrigued  with  Great  Britain 
to  bring  him  into  that  measure.  We  have,  in  fact,  not  intermed- 
dled in  any  manner  whatever  in  the  political  affairs  of  St.  Domingo. 
If  Toussaint  declares  its  independency,  it  will  not  be  owing  to 
the  intrigues,  nor  the  advice,  nor  even  the  suggestion  of  the 
United  States.  It  will  be  his  own  act.  The  negroes  and  people 
of  colour  of  St.  Domingo,  formerly  slaves,  have  become  incurably 
jealous  (and  I  believe  with  reason)  that  France  intended  in  the 
end  to  bring  them  back  again  to  slavery,  or  to  destroy  them  and 
repeople  the  Island  from  Africa." 

He  further  states  "  that  the  President  being  absent  and 
the  business  urgent,"  General  Maitland  was  informed  that 
the  arrangement  was  "  subject  to  the  President's  determina- 
tion," which  the  officers  of  the  government  had  no  doubt 
would  be  obtained,  as  they,  after  careful  consideration,  were 
satisfied  of  its  wisdom. 

This  assent  was  given,  as  we  learn  by  a  letter  of  Mr. 
Pickering  to  Mr.  King  of  the  9th  of  May  in  these  words : 

"  I  am  very  glad  you  did  not  detain  Genl.  Maitland  till  you 
could  hear  from  me.  Upon  the  whole  I  think  the  negociation 
has  been  conducted  with  caution  and  prudence,  and  the  result 
has  my  fullest  approbation." 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

April  26,  1799. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  frequently  revolved  in  my  mind  the  possible  events  to 
be  produced  by  the  Revolution  of  Spain  which  seems  now  to  be 
threatened  anew,  after  having  been  long  spared,  as  I  suppose,  on 
account  of  her  colonies — these  it   must   have   appeared  to  the 


8  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

French  wou'd  be  liable  to  become  associated  with  England  & 
with  U.  S.  unless  the  Sea  cou'd  be  opened  to  France — a  despair 
of  this  now  determines  the  Directory  to  seize  Spain  &  Portugal 
whose  plunder  is  at  length  indispensable  ;  such  are  my  reflections  ; 
but  what  profit  will  the  U.  S.  make  of  the  events  ?  Our  first  con- 
sideration is  &  ought  to  be  how  we  shall  most  effectually  secure 
ourselves  from  the  Revy.  Hurricane  that  is  sweeping  the  civil- 
ized world.  I  had  flattered  myself  that  the  tide  of  affairs  wou'd 
be  turned  by  the  English  successes,  but  it  appears  that  Continental 
Europe  is  grown  worse  than  ever  &  that  we  are  relapsing.  There 
was  a  period  when  we  might  have  been  placed  in  a  state  of  safety 
&  it  is  yet  possible  tho'  more  difficult  ;  our  Country  like  Switzer- 
land seems  destined  to  suffer  from  the  Defects  of  its  Rulers  as 
well  as  the  folly  of  its  people.  The  jealousy  which  the  P.  has  felt 
of  H.  he  now  indulges  toward  P.  tw'd  W.  &  to'd  very  many  of  their 
friends  who  are  suspected  of  having  too  much  influence  in  the 
Community,  &  of  not  knowing  how  to  appreciate  his  merits.  The 
consequence  is  that  his  ears  are  shut  to  his  best  real  friends  & 
open  to  Flatterers,  to  Time  servers  &  even  to  some  Jacobins. 
These  things,  not  yet  extensive  nor  very  much  known,  give  infinite 
pain  to  me  &  to  all  my  Intimates.  We  have  hitherto  sought  in 
vain  for  a  remedy  &  from  the  nature  of  the  case  I  think  an 
effectual  remedy  is  not  to  be  found  :  if  we  can  palliate  it  we  shall 
be  glad.  You  will  naturally  suppose  that  H.,  disappointed  of  the 
high  distinction  he  sought  &  embarrassed  in  his  money  affairs, 
wou'd  be  a  discontented  man  &  that  he  wou'd  insinuate  danger- 
ous doctrines  when  he  cou'd  with  secrecy. — I  lately  dined  at 
Quincy  in  a  family  way  &  tho'  I  was  treated  with  a  cordial  hospi- 
tality &  with  great  confidence  in  many  respects,  yet  I  found  it  im- 
possible to  speak  upon  the  subject  which  oppressed  my  heart.  I 
wanted  to  speak  freely  of  the  dangers  to  which  we  were  exposed 
from  suffering  the  temper  of  the  Country  to  cool  &  its  indignation 
to  subside.  I  wanted  to  speak  freely  my  opinion  of  the  motives 
which  impelled  some  men  to  cultivate  the  seeds  of  distrust  which 
nature  has  sown  more  or  less  profusely  in  every  bosom  &  whose 
growth  wou'd  be  pernicious  in  the  extreme.  I  wanted  to  show 
that  there  was  no  deficiency  of  attachment  or  respect  among  those 
who  assisted  in  the  administration  of  our  national  affairs,  &  in  a 
word  I  wished  to  restore  or  establish  a  just  confidence  among  men 


1799]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE. 


who  must  act  together  if  they  wish  to  save  their  Country  or  them- 
selves, but  I  was  distanced  in  every  path  which  led  to  these  topics. 

Amid  so  many  discouraging  circumstances  as  attend  us  within 
&  without,  it  is  some  consolation  that  Federal  men  are  extremely 
alarmed  &  are  becoming  more  decided  &  active,  &  at  this  moment 
some  trial  of  forces  is  to  be  had  in  the  election  of  our  State  Repre- 
sentatives ;  in  the  votes  for  Govr.  &  Senators  our  opponents  have 
availed  themselves  of  the  odium  inseparable  from  New  Taxes  & 
Great  Expenses.  They  have  produced  a  considerable  number  of 
votes  but  not  enough  to  answer  any  of  their  purposes.  I  am 
ready  to  join  you  as  well  as  Ames  in  reprobating  the  publication 
of  Marshall's  sentiments  on  the  Sedition  &  Alien  Acts,  but  I  still 
adhere  to  my  first  opinion  that  Marshall  ought  not  to  be  attacked 
in  the  Newspapers,  nor  too  severely  condemned  anywhere,  because 
Marshall  has  not  yet  learned  his  whole  lesson  but  has  a  mind  & 
disposition  which  can  hardly  fail  to  make  him  presently  an  accom- 
plished (political)  Scholar  &  a  very  useful  man.  Some  allowance 
too  should  be  made  for  the  influence  of  the  Atmosphere  of  Vir- 
ginia which  doubtless  makes  every  one  who  breathes  it  visionary  &, 
upon  the  subject  of  Free  Govt.,  incredibly  credulous  ;  but  it  is  cer- 
tain that  Marshall  at  Phila.  wou'd  become  a  most  powerful  auxiliary 
to  the  cause  of  order  &  good  Govt.,  &  therefore  we  ought  not  to 
diminish  his  fame  which  wou'd  ultimately  be  a  loss  to  ourselves. 

Gerry  is  a  Solitary  in  all  respects  :  he  was  spared  in  the  News 
papers  because  it  was  apprehended  no  attack  cou'd  be  made  upon 
him  that  wou'd  not  be  likely  to  excite  a  temper  in  the  P.  unpro- 
pitious  to  the  public  welfare — the  event  however  is  thought  to 
have  proved  the  reasoning  bad.  It  is  now  said  if  G.  had  been 
treated  properly  the  P.  wou'd  have  been  deterred  from  all  appear- 
ances of  temporizing.  I  believe  however  that  the  reading  Mar- 
shall's journal  has  compelled  the  P.  to  be  silent  &  to  acquiesce  in 
the  unqualified  condemnation  of  Gerry.  I  have  taken  some  pains 
to  stir  up  the  proper  powers  to  alter  the  mode  of  electing  the 
President  but  without  success  &  I  fear  some  embarrassment  will 
be  again  felt  &  possibly  a  French  President  may  be  elected.  At 
present  I  think  if  this  danger  shou'd  press,  it  wou'd  be  prudent  to 
elect  W.  again,  who  would  doubtless  yield  to  the  necessity  of  such 
a  Conjuncture.  Such  an  idea  wou'd  now  raise  a  terrible  storm, 
but  if  the  storm  comes  without  it,  this  wou'd  appease  it.     It  has 


10  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

lately  been  intimated  to  me  in  confidence  that  our  excellent  friend 
wou'd  be  gratified  with  an  appt  as  M.  P.  :  this  has  often  occurred 
to  me  &  to  others  of  his  friends,  all  of  whom  wou'd  be  highly 
pleased  to  see  the  object  attained,  but  I  fear  it  will  not  be  in  my 
power  to  aid  it  much.  I  shall  write  to  Mr.  Wolcott  as  well  as 
Pickering  upon  the  subject  but  it  is  doubtful  whether  they  will  be 
consulted.  If  an  opportunity  presents  I  will  also  speak  to  the  P. 
but  no  such  opportunity  may  be  found  if  I  seek  it. 

The  political  disputants  have  been  much  occupied  in  discussing 
the  propriety  of  the  P's  nominating  Mr.  Murray.  I  think  how- 
ever the  subsequent  nomination  with  the  extraordinary  precau- 
tions accompanying  it  prove  the  first  measure  to  have  been  unad- 
vised. The  first  was  a  seeming  compliance  with  the  views  of 
Talleyrand,  but  the  2d  on  the  contrary  is  a  measure  of  some  irri- 
tation. The  whole  proceeding  shows  the  P.  to  have  underrated 
the  spirit  of  the  Country  &  that  he  was  made  sensible  of  it  by  the 
strong  spontaneous  expression  of  general  discontent  among  the 
friends  of  Govt.  It  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  the  P.  did  feel 
more  complacent  toward  France  than  before  ;  on  the  contrary  he 
has  thro'  the  whole  period  of  the  transaction  &  to  the  present 
moment  expressed  unreservedly  his  detestation  of  French  &  re- 
grets that  our  Country  did  not  act  against  them  in  concert  with 
England.  God  bless  you  &  yours 

G.  C. 

The  following  letter  from  Mr.  Liston,  the  British  Ambas- 
sador to  the  United  States,  to  Mr.  Pickering,  April  10, 
1799,  refers  to  an  interesting  incident  in  the  friendly  rela- 
tions between  the  two  countries : 

"When  you  proposed  to  me  last  year  that  the  cannon  belong- 
ing to  the  Foudroyant  French  Man  of  War,  afterwards  presented 
to  the  Province  of  So.  Carolina  by  his  late  Majesty  George  the 
Second,  and  which  were  then  lying  at  Halifax  in  Nova  Scotia, 
should  be  delivered  to  the  United  States,  with  a  view  to  the  de- 
fence of  Charleston,  it  was  not  in  the  power  of  the  Commander 
in  Chief  of  the  King's  troops  at  Halifax,  to  comply  with  the  re- 
quest otherwise  than  upon  condition  that  the  guns  should  be  con- 
sidered as  a  loan,  and  should  be  sent  back  to  any   part  of  his 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  II 

Majesty's  American  possession,  when  re-demanded.  But  his 
Majesty  has  now  been  pleased,  as  a  testimony  of  friendship  tow- 
ards the  United  States,  to  direct  me  to  return  the  engagement  to 
that  effect  entered  into  by  the  Secretary  of  War,  in  order  that  the 
same  may  be  cancelled.  I  have  the  honor  of  inclosing  that  Paper 
accordingly,  and  am  happy  to  be  the  instrument  of  thus  termi- 
nating a  transaction,  which,  while  it  discovers  on  the  part  of  my 
Sovereign  a  perfect  confidence  in  the  sentiment  of  the  American 
Government,  cannot  but  tend  to  consolidate  the  connection  so 
happily  subsisting  between  the  two  countries." 

Mr.  Pickering's  answer,  May  1st,  is: 

"  I  transmitted  to  the  President  of  the  United  States  your  note 
of  the  10th  of  April,  and  this  morning  have  received  his  directions 
to  say  that  he  considers  the  present  of  cannon,  transported  last 
autumn  from  Halifax  to  Charleston,  '  as  a  testimony  of  the  friend- 
ship of  his  Britannic  Majesty  to  the  United  States  '  and  to  com- 
municate through  you,  'the  thanks  of  the  American  Government 
for  this  mark  of  his  Majesty's  confidence  in  it's  sentiments.'  All 
who  discern  and  who  wish  to  promote  the  true  interests  and  safety 
of  our  two  nations,  will  view  with  satisfaction  every  act  which,  man- 
ifesting a  mutual  confidence  and  good  will,  shall  tend  to  strengthen 
the  connection  so  happily  subsisting  between  the  two  countries." 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  37. 

London,  May  1,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Though  I  have  nothing  material  to  communicate,  I  cannot 
permit  the  Packet  to  sail  without  writing.  The  French  army  that 
entered  Swabia  has  finally  been  obliged  to  relinquish  the  offen- 
sive and  to  retire  behind  the  Rhine.  The  Austrians  are  preparing 
to  enter  Switzerland,  where  the  French  are  sending  strong  rein- 
forcements. Jourdan  has  been  removed  and  Massena  made 
Commander-in-chief  ;  it  is  with  him  the  Arch  Duke  must  contend 
in  his  effort  to  restore  the  Swiss  to  their  ancient  freedom  and 
Independence. 


12  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

In  Italy  the  Austrian  arms  have  acquired  more  brilliant  and 
important  victories  than  upon  the  Rhine  ;  the  contest  in  this 
quarter  has  been  obstinate,  often  repeated  and  fatal  to  great 
numbers  in  each  army  ;  the  French  have  been  compelled  to 
retreat,  and  here,  as  upon  the  Rhine,  the  Commander-in-chief  has 
been  dismissed.  Moreau  is  now  General-in-chief  of  the  French 
armies  in  Italy.  The  Russian  reinforcement  will  join  the  Austrians 
in  the  hour  of  victory.  Other  columns  of  Russia  are  on  their 
march  towards  Italy  and  we  hear  that  the  Grand  Duke  Constan- 
tine,  the  Emperor's  second  son,  is  with  one  of  them. 

The  French  Papers  mention  as  an  article  of  intelligence  the 
appointment  of  another  mission  from  the  United  States,  and  I 
have  not  heard  that  they  have  taken  any  notice  of  the  Capture  of 
the  Insurgent,  tho'  the  news  must  have  reached  Paris  before  that 
of  the  new  mission. 

Your  Number  42,  of  the  5th  of  February  is  the  last  Letter  that 
I  have  received  from  you.  With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem 
&c.,  &c.  Rufus  King. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 
(Private?) 

Philadelphia,  May  4,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Your  instructions,  after  much  more  delay  than  I  had  anticipated, 
are  prepared  and  will  be  forwarded  as  soon  as  they  receive  the 
President's  sanction,  for  negociating  a  Treaty  of  Amity  and  com- 
merce with  Russia.  The  notice  which  I  have  before  given  of 
your  appointment  to  this  charge,  I  presumed  would  be  sufficient 
to  authorize  the  Russian  Minister  at  London  to  send  to  his  Gov- 
ernment for  his  full  powers,  and  your  instructions  I  trust  will 
arrive  in  time  for  commencing  the  negociation.     .     .     . 

The  events  of  the  war  of  France  with  Naples — the  easy  transi- 
tion from  the  latter  country  to  the  Turkish  Dominions  in  Europe 
— the  feebleness  of  the  Turkish  Government — the  torpidness  of 
the  European  continental  Powers,  which  opposing  no  effectual 
barrier  for  their  own  territories — will  certainly  not  stop  the 
march  of  the  French  to  Constantinople  and  the  very  possible  sub- 
version of  the  Turkish  Empire  in  Europe.  All  these  considera- 
tions have  induced  us  to  think  it  inexpedient  to  hasten  Mr.  Smith's 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  1 3 


voyage  to  Constantinople.  By  the  mail  of  Monday  (the  sixth 
instant)  I  shall  submit  the  question  to  the  President's  decision. 
My  Colleagues  and  I  are  unanimous  in  the  opinion  that  the  mis- 
sion should  be  suspended. 

This  naturally  reminds  me  of  the  proposition  I  made  to  you 
last  January,  respecting  my  son  now  with  Mr.  Smith.*  He  must 
either  go  to  London,  or  return  home.  He  is  now  two  and  twenty, 
and  cannot  much  longer  delay  resuming  his  professional  studies. 

The  most  agreeable  domestic  intelligence,  and  it  is  the  more 
agreeable  and  important  as  it  affects  our  foreign  relations,  is  the 
federal  election  in  the  City  of  New  York  for  their  State  Legisla- 
ture. Their  federal  Senator  had  a  majority  of  near  seven  hun- 
dred votes  ;  and  all  the  gentlemen  on  the  federal  list  for  the 
House  of  Representatives  are  also  unquestionably  elected.  The 
information  is  in  a  letter  dated  yesterday  from  Col.  J.  Morton  to 
his  brother  in  this  city  ;  he  pleasantly  exclaims  "  we  have  beat 
the  French." 

The  other  domestic  intelligence,  still  more  important,  is,  that 
Genl.  Marshall  is  elected  a  member  of  Congress  for  his  district  ; 
that  seven  or  eight  other  federal  members  are  chosen  ;  that  prob- 
ably a  majority  of  the  Virginia  delegation  will  be  decidedly  fed- 
eral, and  that  even  in  their  State  Legislature  the  democratic 
predominance  will  be  lost.  The  mad  and  rebellious  resolves  of 
the  Legislatures  or  House  of  representatives  of  Virginia  and  Ken- 
tucky, which  were  transmitted  to  all  the  other  Legislatures  in  the 
Union  have  been  rejected  by  all  ;  by  some  with  pointed  disap- 
probation, and  by  others  with  contempt.  The  real  object  of  the 
leading  Jacobins  has  been  declared.  Giles,  at  the  house  of  Mr. 
Burwell  at  Richmond,  said  expressly  that  he  desired  that  the 
Union  of  the  States  might  be  severed.  He  has  attempted  a  de- 
nial, but  Mr.  Burwell,  a  man  of  veracity  and  fair  reputation, 
positively  confirms  the  charge. 

.  .  .  The  Circuit  Court  now  sitting  is  engaged  in  the  trial 
of  the  Insurgents  in  the  northern  parts  of  Pennsylvania  ;  rather 
in  the  counties  immediately  north  of  Philadelphia.  .  .  .  All 
opposition  was  subdued  without  bloodshed. 

*  That  in  case  Mr.  Dandridge,  Mr.  King's  secretary,  should  return  to 
America  (see  letter  May  6,  '99)  to  accept  a  position  in  the  new  army  Mr.  King 
would  receive  him  as  his  secretary. 


14  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

R.  Troup  to  R.  Ring. 

New  York,  6  May,  1799. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Burr  has  for  two  years  past  been  a  member  of  the  As- 
sembly, and  by  his  arts  and  intrigues  he  has  done  a  gread  deal 
towards  revolutionizing  the  State.  It  became  an  object  of  pri- 
mary and  essential  importance  to  put  him  and  his  party  to  flight. 
.  .  .  The  election  was  the  most  animated  I  have  ever  experi- 
enced. All  men  of  property  stood  forth  and  appeared  to  act  as 
if  they  were  persuaded  that  everything  valuable  in  society  de- 
pended on  the  success  of  their  efforts.  The  merchants  in  par- 
ticular were  zealous  and  active.  The  consequence  is  that  we 
have  obtained  a  glorious  triumph.  .  .  .  We  have  broken  the 
democratic  fetters  with  which  we  have  lately  been  bound.     .    .    . 

We  are  looking  forward  with  anxiety  to  the  next  election  for 
Governor.  .  .  .  The  idea  is  that  Mr.  Jay  will  retire  from 
public  life.  .  .  .  Would  you  believe,  my  good  friend,  that  our 
influence  on  a  general  scale  has  been  considerably  diminished  by 
Mr.  Jay's  administration  ?  This,  I  am  persuaded,  will  to  you 
appear  incredible  :  the  fact  nevertheless  is  so.  With  the  best  in- 
tentions his  administration  has  injured  his  reputation  and  lessened 
our  weight.  This  disappointment  has  contributed  more  than  any 
event  that  has  ever  occurred  to  shake  my  confidence  in  our  pres- 
ent system  of  government.  I  have  long  been  anxious  to  com- 
municate this  extraordinary  fact  to  you,  but  I  have  been  restrained 
by  motives  which  will  readily  occur  to  you.  I  can  conceal  it  no 
longer.  His  last  election  bore  no  sort  of  comparison  in  point  of 
zeal  and  exertion  with  the  one  preceding  it.  .  .  .  The  causes 
I  will  one  day  or  other  explain  to  you.  The  opinion  I  give  you 
is  not  confined  to  a  few  of  our  friends.     .     .     . 

The  insurrection  in  Northern  Pennsylvania  is  suppressed.  .  .  . 
The  President  suddenly,  and  without  notice,  left  Philadelphia  for 
Braintree  just  after  this  rebellion  had  broken  out,  and  his  depart- 
ure at  that  crisis  excited  much  dissatisfaction.  His  stay  from  the 
seat  of  Government,  which  is  likely  to  continue  till  next  Novem- 
ber or  December,  is  a  source  of  much  disgust.  It  embarrasses 
the  public  business  and  has  the  air  of  an  abdication.  The  Presi- 
dent appears  so  whimsical  and  unsteady  that  I  have  no  doubt  that 
serious  difficulties  will  be  experienced  if  he  be  our  candidate  at  the 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 5 

next  election.  The  faux  pas  he  committed  in  the  late  nomination 
of  Minister  to  France  has  so  shaken  the  public  spirit  and  the 
public  mind,  that  he  can  never  regain  the  ground  on  which  he 
lately  stood.     .     .     .  Very  truly  yours 

Rob.  Troup. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Gr.  Cumbd.  Place,  10th  May,  1799. 

Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Lord  Grenville  and 
requests  his  Ldship's  interference  that  the  American  ship,  Prosper, 
Daniel  Williams  master,  bound  from  Hambg.  to  New  York, 
detained  and  sent  into  Yarmouth  by  his  Majesty's  ship  Latona, 
may  with  her  cargo  be  released  and  suffered  to  proceed  to  the 
port  of  her  Destination.  This  ship  has  on  board  five  thousand 
Muskets,  that  have  been  purchased  by  Mr.  King's  order  by  the 
American  Consul  at  Hamb.g,  3500  of  them  for  the  U.  S.  and  the 
other  1500  for  the  State  of  N.  York.  If  the  Prosper  has  been 
detained  on  account  of  these  arms,  he  presumes  that  she  will  be 
immediately  released  upon  this  assurance  that  they  belong  and 
have  been  shipped,  as  expressed  in  the  Bills  of  Lading,  duplicates 
of  which  have  been  received  by  Mr.  King  from  Hamburgh  and 
are  sent  enclosed  with  a  request  that  they  may  be  returned  to 
him. 

Several  letters  from  Mr.  Pickering  to  Mr.  King  direct  his 
particular  attention  to  the  effects  of  the  misinterpretation, 
by  the  British  prize  courts  in  the  West  Indies,  of  the  18th 
article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Commerce  with  Great 
Britain.  The  British  cruisers  were  constantly  capturing 
American  vessels  on  the  forced  construction  of  what  was 
contraband  of  war,  and  the  courts  condemned  the  vessels, 
interfering  very  materially  with  the  American  commerce 
and  causing  great  losses  to  the  owners  of  the  vessels.  The 
correspondence  points  out  clearly  and  forcibly  what  was 
deemed  to  be  not  only  a  misinterpretation  of  the  character 
of  the  articles  objected  to,  but  of  the  apparent  wilfulness  of 
the  proceedings.  In  a  letter  of  the  nth  of  May,  1799,  he 
says: 


1 6  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

"  To  the  perverse  transactions  (as  I  think  myself  warranted  in 
calling  them)  of  the  18th  article  of  the  British  Treaty  respecting 
Contraband,  noted  in  my  letter  of  the  8th  inst,  I  have  now  to 
add,  that  Linseed  Oil  and  Painters  Colours  have  been  pronounced 
contraband  by  some  of  the  British  Vice-admiralty  Courts  ;  for  a 
vessel  when  built  and  equipped  may  have  some  of  her  upper 
works  painted.  This,  tho'  of  less  moment  in  itself  than  some 
others,  is  as  sheer  an  abuse  as  can  well  be  imagined.  The  truth 
of  the  matter  is  that  when  the  naval  officers  who  in  this  sort  of 
business  are  too  eager,  either  for  their  own  honor,  or  our  tran- 
quillity, have  once  seized  upon  their  prey  and  carried  it  into  port, 
there  seems  to  be  a  wonderful  sagacity  in  discovering  something 
to  be  contraband,  whereby  the  Captors  are  screened  from  paying 
damages  and  our  fellow  citizens  condemned  in  heavy  costs.  The 
citizen  of  the  United  States  dwelling  in  the  Mississippi  Territory, 
as  well  as  the  inhabitants  of  Louisiana  receive  their  clothing  and 
necessary  supplies  in  American  Vessels  by  the  way  of  New 
Orleans.  But  the  British  cruizers  say  they  shall  not  have 
1  unwrought  Iron  '  to  be  wrought  into  Husbandry  utensils,  nor 
nails  to  build  houses,  nor  paints  to  shield  these  from  the  weather 
and  the  burning  sun  of  that  climate  and  for  internal  decorations, 
nor  coarse  linens  for  their  negroes  and  servants  and  to  make  bags 
for  their  cotton.  It  was  not  easy  to  have  foreseen  such  abusive 
construction  of  the  general  words  '  whatever  may  serve  directly 
to  the  equipment  of  vessels,'  but  they  may  have  their  use  in  our 
negociating  future  Treaties  by  preventing  the  admission  of  any 
article  to  be  contraband  unless  expressly  mentioned.     .     .     . 

"  I  have  lately  received  a  Proclamation,  apparently  an  original 
of  Rear  Admiral  Pringle,  commanding  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope, 
forbidding  all  vessels,  the  British  only  excepted,  killing  whales  or 
seals  on  the  Coast  of  that  Colony  within  5  leagues  from  the  land  ; 
threatening  in  case  of  disobedience  to  his  order,  to  seize  and  send 
them  to  the  Cape,  to  be  proceeded  against  according  to  law.  .  .  . 
This  unlawful  order  was  doubtless  levelled  against  American 
vessels  alone,  for  I  believe  they  are  the  only  vessels,  besides 
British,  accustomed  to  take  whales  on  that  Coast.  This,  I  also 
believe,  was  a  region  where  our  vessels  had  usually  taken  whales 
long  before  the  British  got  possession  of  the  Cape  ;  and  where  we 
had  no  reason  to  expect  interruption.    .    .     .     With  these  Docu- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 7 

ments  (inclosed)  you  can  state  the  case  to  Lord  Grenville  and  I 
trust  have  removed  all  obstructions  to  our  Fisheries  on  the 
African  Coast.  At  any  rate  it  will  be  best  to  come  to  some 
decisive  understanding  on  this  subject. 

"  According  to  the  Proclamation  one  would  suppose  the  British 
Admiral  considered  the  vast  territory  from  Cape  Negro  on  the 
west  to  the  Bay  Delagoa  on  the  southeast  coast,  as  pertaining  to 
the  quondam  Dutch  Colony  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope." 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Marlborough,  May  17,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  had  this  morning  the  honor  of  receiving  your  Lordship's  let- 
ter of  the  15th,  and  at  the  same  time  a  letter  from  Col.  Pickering 
of  the  2d  ulto  ;  but  neither  in  this  Letter  nor  in  those  reed,  by 
the  mail  that  arrived  on  Tuesday,  does  he  take  any  notice  of  the 
Business  of  the  Commissioners.  It  is  true  that  a  Letter  of  the 
last  of  February  or  of  the  beginning  of  March  is  wanting  to  com- 
plete his  series  :  this  will  probably  come  to  hand  by  the  Chester- 
field Packet,  due  before  the  Lady  Harriet  that  brought  the  last 
mail.  Possibly  his  Letter  may,  tho'  I  hope  it  will  not,  respect 
the  disagreement  that  seems  to  have  existed  between  the  Comms. 

Tho'  I  am  equally  with  your  Lordship  without  information 
upon  this  subject,  I  shd.  not  have  hesitated  to  have  immediately 
waited  upon  you  at  Dropmore,  had  I  not  been  anxious  first  to  see 
my  family  conveniently  placed  at  Bath.  We  shall  be  there  this 
even'g  and  I  propose  being  in  London  early  on  Wednesday  next, 
When  I  will  have  the  honor  of  attending  your  Lordship  in  Cleve- 
land Row.  With  great  Respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  Col.  Pickering's  Letter  of  the  2d.  April  mentions  the 
arrival  of  Genl.  Maitland. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  May  22,  1799. 

.  .  .  The  Jury  who  tried  Fries,  the  leader  of  the  Insurgents 
in  this  State  of  Pennsylvania,  agreed  on  their  verdict  Guilty  with- 
out debate  or  hesitation  ;  but  some  testimony  being  adduced  be- 


VOL.   III. — 2 


1 8  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

fore  sentence  was  pronounced  that  one  of  the  jurors  had  declared 
his  opinion  before  the  Trial,  and  subsequent  to  his  being  sum- 
moned as  a  juror,  that  Fries  ought  to  be  hanged,  a  new  Trial  was 
granted.  Yet  that  juror  only  thought  and  spoke,  as  any  other 
person  did  who  was  equally  informed  of  the  facts,  without  any 
symptom  of  malice.  The  mode  in  which  the  Jury  made  their 
determination  was  remarkable.  Without  the  least  discussion, 
after  the  cause  had  been  committed  to  them,  they  agreed  that 
each  should  write  on  a  ticket  his  opinion  ;  they  did  so,  and  on 
examining  the  tickets  each  was  inscribed  guilty.  The  new  trial 
will  be  in  October.  Some  of  the  principal  Insurgents  (near 
twenty)  remain  imprisoned  for  trial  at  the  same  time.  Four  or 
five  were  tried  for  misdemeanours,  convicted  and  fined  and 
imprisoned. 

King  to  Hamilton.  * 

London,  May  22d,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

War  is  again  declared  by  France  against  the  temporizing 
Cabinet  of  Vienna,  and  this  has  been  the  signal  for  Prussia  to 
resume  her  former  system  of  insecure  neutrality. 

We  may  every  hour  expect  the  result  of  a  battle  between  Jour- 
dan  and  the  Archduke,  who,  according  to  our  last  accounts,  were 
respectively  advancing  upon  each  other.  The  first  blow  has 
been  unfortunate  for  the  allies  ;  the  whole  of  the  Austrian  Corps, 
5000,  at  Coire,  in  the  country  of  the  Grisons  having  fallen  into 
the  hands  of  the  French,  commanded  by  Massena.  I  wish  that 
I  felt  more  confident  that  this  first  success  would  not  be  followed 
by  more  important  victories.  The  25,000  Russians,  who  were 
some  time  in  the  neighborhood  of  Vienna,  are  on  their  march  for 
Italy,  where  Suwarrow,  an  old  Russian  officer,  is  to  command 
the  combined  armies. 

If  Prussia,  with  the  North  of  Germany,  which  together  have  an 
army  of  more  than  300,000  men,  had  joined  heartily  and  hon- 
estly in  the  league  against  France,  the  Directory  might  have  been 
shaken  ;  but  my  hopes  are  weaker  than  my  fears  with  regard  to 
the  partial  and  ill-joined  Confederacy  with  which  it  is  at  present 
engaged. 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  407. 


1 7  99 J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 9 

The  publication  of  the  treaty  of  Campo  Formio,  so  disgraceful 
to  the  court  of  Vienna,  will  prove  hurtful  to  the  Directory,  by 
confirming  the  jealousy  of  Prussia,  and  exciting  distrust  of  the 
Emperor  throughout  Germany,  the  interest  and  safety  of  which 
was  sacrificed  by  that  treaty. 


CHAPTER  II. 

King  to  Lord  Grenville — Blockade  of  the  United  Provinces — Request  for  Re- 
lease of  American  Vessels — To  Count  de  Woronzow — Russian  Treaty — To 
Secretary  of  State — Interruption  of  Commission  under  sixth  Article — Block- 
ade of  the  United  Provinces — To  Lord  Loughborough — Maryland  Bank — 
To  Troup — Cannot  understand  Affairs  at  Home — Pickering  to  King — Cap- 
tain Loring's  Insult  to  American  Flag — Mission  to  Constantinople — King  to 
Lord  Grenville — Complains  of  the  Vice-Admiralty  Courts — To  Secretary  of 
State — Mission  to  Constantinople  and  to  Russia — Cabot  to  King — Dissatis- 
faction with  President — Lawrance  to  King,  relative  to  the  8  per  cent.  Loan 
— Great  Demand  for  Credits  in  Bank — Pickering  to  King — St.  Domingo — 
Toussaint  promises  Safety  to  Commerce — King  to  Pickering — Disapproves 
of  the  Nomination  to  France — Recommends  Prudence  in  Dealing  with  her 
— English  Opinion  on  French  Affairs — Trade  with  Russia — Troup  to  King 
— Latter's  Remarks  about  English  Courts — St.  Domingo — East  India  Trade 
— Confidence  in  Adams's  Discretion  impaired — King  to  Lord  Grenville  on 
Provisions  of  the  eighteenth  Article  of  the  Treaty. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Gr.  Cumberld.  Place,  23d  May,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  ask  your  Lordship's  interference  in  order 

to  procure  the  discharge  of  the  American  ships,  Mahala  Windsor, 

Loring  Master,  Ocean,  Parker  Master,  Polly,  Channock  Master, 

America,  Burger  Master,  and  Genet,  Barrett   Master,  with  their 

respective  cargoes.     The  two  former  of  these  vessels  were  bound 

from   Rotterdam   to   America,    and   the   three    latter   from    the 

Texel.     They  have  all  been  detained  and  sent  into  Yarmouth 

by   the   English    Fleet   in  the    North   Seas.     These   vessels,    as 

I  am  informed,  arrived  in  the  Dutch  Seas  before  the  late  order 

of  the  Blockade  of  all  the  Ports  of  the  United  Provinces.     The 

passage  to  Rotterdam  was  quite  free  &,  notwithstanding  the  order 

20 


1799J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  21 


of  June  for  the  Blockade  of  the  Texel,  the  blockading  fleet  during 
a  part  of  the  winter  returned  into  the  English  Ports,  and  no  force 
was  present  at  the  Entrance  of  the  Texel,  when  these  ships  & 
other  American  vessels,  now  at  Amsterdam,  entered  the  Port. 

It  seems  scarcely  necessary  to  observe  that  the  presence  of  a 
competent  force  is  essential  to  constitute  a  Blockade  ;  that  altho' 
it  is  usual  for  the  Belligerent  to  give  notice  to  neutral  nations 
when  he  institutes  a  Blockade,  it  is  not  custom  to  give  any  notice 
of  its  discontinuance,  and  that  consequently  the  presence  of  the 
blockading  force  is  the  natural  criterion  by  which  the  neutral  is 
enabled  to  ascertain  the  existence  of  the  Blockade  ;  the  like  man- 
ner as  the  actual  investment  of  a  besieged  Place,  is  the  only 
evidence  by  which  we  decide  whether  the  siege  is  continued  or 
raised.  A  siege  may  be  commenced,  raised,  recommenced  and 
raised  again  ;  but  its  existence  at  any  precise  time  must  depend 
upon  the  Fact  of  the  presence  of  an  investing  army.  This  inter- 
pretation of  the  Law  of  Blockade  is  of  peculiar  importance  to 
nations  situated  at  a  great  distance  from  each  other,  and  between 
whom  a  considerable  length  of  time  is  necessary  to  send  &  receive 
information. 

Besides  the  ships  which  are  the  immediate  object  of  this  Letter,  I 
am  informed  by  the  American  Consul  General  in  Holland,  that  a 
number  of  other  American  vessels  which  arrived  in  the  Ports  of  Am- 
sterdam and  Rotterdam  during  the  winter  and  before  the  late  order 
for  the  Blockade  of  all  the  Dutch  Ports,  are  now  detained  there 
with  their  Cargoes  from  an  apprehension  of  being  interrupted  in 
their  return  to  America.  The  same  observations  are  applicable  to 
these  vessels  as  to  those  detained  and  sent  into  Yarmouth,  and  I 
must  request  your  Lordship  to  enable  me  to  give  to  the  Am.  Cons. 
Gen.  in  Holland  for  the  information  of  the  Masters  of  these  ships 
an  assurance  on  the  part  of  your  Government  that  they  may  pro- 
ceed on  their  voyages  without  danger  of  interruption  from  your 
Cruisers. 

Our  Expectations  on  this  occasion  appear  to  me  to  be  founded 
in  reason  &  Justice,  &  I  persuade  myself  that  they  will  not  appear 
otherwise  to  yr.  Lordship. 

With  the  mo.  pert.  Respect,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


22  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

R.  King  to  Comte  de  Woronzow. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  May  24,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  going  again  to  Bath  to  join  my  family  which  I  left  there  a 
few  days  ago  ;  possibly  it  may  not  be  in  my  power  to  return  to 
town  before  you  leave  it.  I  need  not  express  to  you  my  unfeigned 
regrets  upon  this  occasion,  nor  my  sincere  hope  that  your  absence 
from  England  may  be  of  short  duration. 

Suffer  me  to  recall  to  your  recollection  a  subject*  of  which  we 
have  more  than  once  conversed  and  at  the  same  time  to  commend 
it  to  your  good  offices  and  friendly  protection.  I  shall  feel  my- 
self particularly  obliged  for  any  information  that  you  may  be 
enabled  to  give  me  respecting  the  sentiments  of  your  Court  upon 
this  important  Topic.  My  late  accounts  from  America  are  satis- 
factory ;  you  know  my  sentiments  upon  those  subjects,  which 
mankind  have  so  great  concern  in  seeing  well  and  soon  settled  ; 
these  sentiments  are  I  am  convinced  those  of  the  American  Gov- 
ernment ;  and  it  will  afford  me  the  greatest  satisfaction  to  see  the 
cause  of  Order  and  of  Religion  in  America  supported  and  strength- 
ened as  it  would  be  by  a  public  intercourse  and  connexion  be- 
tween the  Governments  of  our  two  Countries. 

With  sincere  attachment  &  Respect,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of   State.     No.  39. 

London,  May  25,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

With  the  exception  of  your  No.  43,  I  have  received  your  Letters 

to  No.  47  inclusive.     Altho'  you  are  silent  upon  the  subject,  I 

am  sorry  to  learn  that  Embarrassments  of  so  serious  a  character 

have  occurred  in  the  Commission  under  the  6th  Article  of  the 

English   Treaty.     Lord   Grenville   sent   me  a  few  days   since  a 

printed  copy  of  the  Proceedings  in  the  case  of  Bishop  Inglis, 

which  he  received  from  Mr.  Liston  by  the  last  Packet,  and  at 

the  same  time  enquired  from  me  whether  I  could  give  him  any 

further  information  upon  the  subject.     In  a  conference  that  we 

*  Probably  the  making  of  a  commercial  treaty  between  Russia  and  the  United 
States. — Ed. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  23 

have  since  had,  his  Lordship  intimated  to  me  that  they  should 
find  it  difficult  to  allow  their  Commissioners  under  the  7th  Article, 
to  assist  in  any  further  awards,  so  long  as  the  business  of  the 
American  Commission  remained  suspended.  We  went  a  little 
way  into  the  Proceedings  in  Bishop  Inglis'  case,  and  I  en- 
deavored to  show  his  Lordship,  which  indeed  is  satisfactorily 
done  by  Messrs.  Fitzsimons  &  Sitgreaves,  that  the  grounds 
taken  by  their  Commissioners  could  not  be  defended.  As  Mr. 
Liston's  Dispatch,  which  was  intended  to  have  been  sent  with 
the  printed  Proceedings,  was  not  sent,  and  as  I  had  received  no 
information  from  you  upon  the  subject,  it  was  thought  best  to 
postpone  a  further  Discussion  of  the  Business,  with  an  under- 
standing that  the  Commission  here,  which  happens  to  be  ad- 
journed for  a  few  weeks,  should  continue  adjourned  until  we 
receive  more  precise  information  from  Philadelphia.  But  whether 
we  are  right  or  otherwise,  it  appears  to  me  extremely  probable 
that  the  Commission  here  will  be  suspended  until  that  at  Phila- 
delphia is  again  put  in  motion.  Lord  Grenville  observed  and  I 
think  with  justice,  that  we  have  found  by  the  discussions  relative 
to  the  powers  of  the  Commissn.  under  the  7th  article,  that  con- 
structions in  either  extreme  must  be  given  up  ;  and  I  think  he 
felt  the  full  effect  of  my  observation,  that  whatever  may  be  the 
importance  of  the  Claims  before  the  Comrs.  at  Philadelphia,  it 
was  very  subordinate  to  the  Harmony  and  good  understanding 
that  happily  subsist  between  the  two  Countries.  It  is  much  to 
be  regretted  that  no  awards  have  been  made  by  the  American 
Commission  :  even  a  single  one  would  have  prevented  the  mis- 
representations that  ill  disposed  persons  feel  themselves  at  liberty 
to  make. 

The  Chesterfield  Packet  has  been  taken  in  her  passage  home  ; 
and  the  affair  that  occurred  at  New  York  is  not  thought  of  any 
consequence.  Mr.  Liston  has  stated  the  Privileges  of  their  Packets 
and  of  their  officers  to  be  greater,  as  I  have  reason  to  believe, 
than  this  Government  would  concede  to  those  of  any  other  na- 
tion, or  than  they  are  desirous  to  obtain  for  themselves.  Indeed 
Lord  Grenville,  who  considered  the  late  transaction  as  of  no  sig- 
nificance, told  me  that  what  had  happened,  showed  that  it  wd.  be 
convenient  that  some  conventional  rule  should  be  established 
relative  to  the  reception  and  treatment  of  Packets,  and  that  we 


24  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

might  chuse  such  rule  as  we  liked.  There  is  no  settled  practice 
in  Europe  upon  this  subject, — the  safety  of  the  Revenue  and  the 
just  distinction  due  to  the  navy,  seem  to  forbid  that  Packets 
should  be  put  on  the  same  footing  as  men  of  war. 

A  number  of  our  Vessels  with  valuable  cargoes  bound  home 
from  Amsterdam  &  Rotterdam  have  been  captured  and  sent  into 
the  British  Ports  for  breach  of  the  Blockade,  that  has  been  insti- 
tuted at  the  Entrance  of  the  Ports  of  the  United  Provinces.  I 
shall  render  them  all  the  aid  in  my  power  ;  but  if  the  law  of 
nations  upon  this  subject,  as  it  is  here  interpreted,  is  enforced 
against  neutrals,  we  must  use  greater  precautions  in  clearing  and 
ordering  our  ships  to  Places  that  we  have  been  notify 'd  are  in  a 
state  of  Blockade.  Instead  of  clearing  our  vessels  for  such 
blockaded  place,  upon  the  presumption  that  the  Blockade  is 
raised,  it  wd.  be  just  as  well,  and  entirely  safe,  to  clear  them  for 
a  neighbouring  Port  not  in  a  state  of  Blockade,  and  to  give  the 
Masters  Instructions  to  proceed  to  the  Port  for  which  they  are 
cleared,  or  to  the  Port,  the  Blockade  whereof  is  believed  to  be 
raised,  in  case  they  shall  receive  satisfactory  information  that 
such  Blockade  is  discontinued. 

We  have  no  certain  intelligence  yet  of  the  Destination  of  the 
Brest  fleet  ;  it  was  seen  on  the  1st  instant  off  Lisbon,  and  the 
present  opinion  seems  to  be  that  it  is  bound  into  the  Mediter- 
ranean after  having  formed  a  junction  with  the  Spanish  fleet  at 
Cadiz.  Nothing  has  lately  occurred  between  the  Austrians  and 
French  upon  the  Rhine.  The  Victory  of  Suwarrow  upon  the 
Adda,  which  has  been  followed  by  the  Conquest  of  the  Cisalpine 
Republic,  has  rendered  the  situation  of  the  French  in  the  Nea- 
politan and  Roman  territories  more  critical,  and  seems  to  threaten 
their  total  expulsion  from  Italy. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c., 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Rt.  Hon.  Lord  Loughborough. 

{Private.) 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  May  25,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

As  I  am  on  the  point   of  returning  to  Bath  where  I  left  my 

family  a  few  days  ago,  I  cannot  have  the  honor  of  waiting  upon 

your  Lordship  at  Hampstead  agreeably  to  your  obliging  permis- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  25 

sion.  My  sole  object  beyond  the  opportunity  of  paying  my 
respects  to  your  Lordship,  was  to  recall  to  your  recollection  the 
Maryland  Bank  Stock  claim,  and  to  express  to  your  Lordship 
how  anxious  I  am,  and  much  I  shall  feel  obliged  by  your  Lord- 
ship's assistance,  to  bring  that  long  depending  suit  to  a  conclu- 
sion. Really,  my  Lord,  on  my  part  nothing  has  been  omitted 
that  I  have  conceived  to  be  likely  to  remove  the  obstacles  that 
have  stood  in  our  way.  I  cannot  express,  nor  is  it  at  all  neces- 
sary that  I  should,  the  trouble  that  I  have  had  in  the  course  of 
this  Business.  I  mention  it  only  as  some  apology  for  this  note, 
as  well  as  for  the  liberty  I  have  before  taken  upon  the  same  sub- 
ject. If  your  Lordship's  health,  and  the  business  of  the  Court 
will  allow  it,  I  permit  myself  to  hope  that  the  affair  will  be  settled 
before  the  next  vacation. 

With  the  most  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c, 

Rufus  King. 
P.S.     Assurances  have  been  given  to  Woodcock  &  Cotes  that 
they  shall  receive  their  costs  the  moment  the  stock  is  trans- 
ferred. 

R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

May  29,  1799. 
.  .  .  I  am  unable  to  account  for  some  late  Proceedings, 
which  are  alike  unexpected  and  difficult  to  comprehend.  I  am 
afraid  of  those  measures  that  certain  men  applaud  and  concerning 
which  others  preserve  a  prudent  silence.  It  will  be  worse  than 
mortification,  if  after  all  that  has  passed  before  our  eyes,  we  suf- 
fer ourselves  to  be  the  Dupes  of  our  adversaries.  Steuben  used 
to  say,  since  the  Jews  were  cast  off,  the  Americans  had  become 
the  chosen  People  ;  it  may  be,  and  that  in  this  way  we  are  to  be 
saved  in  spite  of  ourselves.  A  Min.  to  the  Porte,  another  to 
Russia,  a  Consul  General  to  Toussaint  and  a  new  set  of  Envoys 
to  the  Great  Nation  !  !  !  R.  K. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  May  29,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  your  letter,  received  last  week,  stating  your  conversation 

with  Lord  Grenville  on  the  insult  offered  by  Capt.  Loring  of  his 

Britannic  Majesty's  ship  Carnatic    to   the   Flag   of   the   United 


26  RUFUS  KING.  [x799 

States,  in  impressing  seamen  from  their  ship  of  war,  the  Baltimore, 
you  suggest  the  propriety  of  your  being  furnished  with  a  state- 
ment of  facts  by  Capt.  Phillips,  her  commander.  I  now  inclose 
it,  with  reluctance,  I  confess  ;  for  altho'  it  establishes  the  reality 
of  the  insult,  it  fixes  the  disgrace  on  Capt.  Phillips.  The  dis- 
honor, which  his  conduct  brought  on  our  infant  navy,  I  hope  has 
been  wiped  off  by  his  instantaneous  dismission.  It  was  unfor- 
tunate that  he  quitted  the  merchant  service,  where  his  good 
behaviour  had  procured  him  a  fair  reputation.  With  the  best 
intention  to  serve  his  country,  he  has  subjected  himself  to 
reproach.  He  has  not  mended  the  matter  by  his  attempt  at  a 
vindication,  in  his  letter  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy.  ...  I 
hope  your  apprehensions  in  respect  to  the  negociating  a  Treaty 
with  Russia  will  be  removed  before  this  gets  to  hand,  by  the 
appointment  of  the  Minister  of  that  court  at  London  to  treat  with 
you  there.  It  would  not  be  desirable  to  us  to  send  a  Minister  to 
Petersburg  for  that  object ;  nor  would  the  American  Govern- 
ment, I  imagine,  have  determined  on  the  negociation,  if  the 
necessary  consequence  was  to  be  placing  a  Resident  Minister  in 
Russia.  I  am  inclined  to  think  the  number  of  our  foreign  min- 
isters will  rather  be  diminished  than  increased. 

In  a  former  letter  I  have  mentioned  the  suspension  of  Mr. 
Smith's  Mission  to  Constantinople,  and  the  probability,  that  it 
will  be  further  suspended  on  account  of  the  state  of  things  in  that 
quarter  of  the  world.  You  suggest  that  it  would  be  favorably 
received  by  the  Porte,  and  I  believe  your  idea  to  be  just.  But 
how  shall  we  ascertain  this  point  ?  Can  you  do  it  thro'  the 
Turkish  Minister  at  London  ?  or  in  any  other  way  ?  I  persuade 
myself  that  the  President  will  be  much  gratified  by  your  taking 
immediate  steps  for  this  purpose.     .     .     . 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  June  i,  1799. 

Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Ld.  Grenville,  and  takes 
the  liberty  to  state  for  his  Ldp's  information  that  he  has  reason  to 
be  satisfied  that  a  practice  continues  to  prevail  in  certain  of  the 
English  Vice-admiralty  or  Prize  Courts,  and  especially  in  the  West 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2J 


Indies,  according  to  which  the  citizens  of  the  U.  States,  whose 
property  has  been  adjudicated  in  those  Courts,  and  who  are  desir- 
ous to  appeal  to  the  Court  of  Appeals  in  Prize  Cases,  are  required 
to  find  sureties  upon  the  spot  in  certain  penal  sums  for  the  prose- 
cution of  such  appeals  ;  a  requisition  difficult  from  the  want  of 
correspondents  to  be  complied  with,  and  always  attended  with 
inconvenience  &  expense,  as  counter-security  is  required  by  the 
sureties  &  commissions  charged  to  and  paid  by  the  claimants. 

Mr.  King  is  informed  that  this  proceeding  is  irregular  &  entirely 
unnecessary  and  by  no  means  authorized  by  those  Laws  which 
should  regulate  the  same  :  he  therefore  requests  Ld.  Grenville's 
interference  to  the  end  that  instructions  be  given  to  the  several 
Vice-admiralty  or  Prize  Courts  in  the  British  Colonies  to  abstain 
from,  &  discontinue  a  practice  useless  to  the  Captors  and  burthen- 
some  to  the  American  Claimants. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

June  2,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  unpardonable  exposure  of  our  Country  to  in- 
trigues from  which  5  years  incessant  efforts  had  just  recovered  it, 
will  justify  all  Europe  in  taking  back  the  praise  they  had  prema- 
turely given  us.  I  wish  a  little  disgrace  was  the  only  penalty  of 
our  folly,  but  we  must  suffer  much  &  suffer  long.  The  influence 
of  the  measure  upon  the  spirit  of  the  country  has  indeed  been 
much  less  pernicious  than  was  feared,  there  having  been  great  ex- 
ertions everywhere  to  counteract  it  &  the  strange  inconsistency 
of  the  P.  himself  cooperated  strongly  to  the  same  purpose.  But 
there  is  one  mischief  produced  which  I  think  a  very  great  one  & 
without  present  remedy.  A  man  having  done  so  weak  a  thing  & 
in  so  unwarantable  manner  will  never  forgive  those  whose 
opinions  he  greatly  respects  &  which  condemn  him  altogether  ; 
his  vanity  wou'd  not  allow  him  to  consult  those  whose  advice 
wou'd  have  saved  him  from  error  ;  nay  he  avoided  them  because 
he  knew  they  wou'd  dissuade  him,  &  he  now  is  cold  to  them  &  to 
their  friends  because  in  every  countenance  he  reads  reproof. 
There  is  however  a  perfect  disposition  to  treat  him  with  all  pos- 
sible delicacy  &  respect,  but  you  know  his  weaknesses  as  well  as 


28  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

his  virtues  &  you  must  know  that  he  wou'd  naturally  under  the 
circumstances  incline  to  hear  those  who  flatter  him  rather  than 
those  who  presume  to  question  his  infallibility.  We  all  think  well 
of  his  heart  &  of  consequence  feel  none  of  those  resentments 
which  wou'd  be  just  if  we  thought  otherwise. 

Amid  all  these  discouragements  you  will  see  with  pleasure  that 
the  federal  elections  have  terminated  well,  compared  with  what 
was  apprehended.  I  believe  too  in  the  States,  notwithstanding 
the  odium  of  new  Taxes  ;  the  people  are  steady  &  have  become 
confirmed  in  the  belief  of  great  danger  from  France.  From  the 
information  contained  in  my  2  letters  from  London  I  thought  my- 
self authorized  to  guard  the  public  against  the  trick  which  might 
be  played  with  Fayette,*  &  I  have  no  doubt  if  he  shou'd  come 
here  he  will  meet  with  all  the  distrust  which  the  villainous  dis- 
position of  his  new  masters  ought  to  inspire  ;  I  have  made  it  a 
practice  to  use  every  hint  you  have  given  me  in  this  way  without 
disclosing  the  source  of  my  intelligence,  except  in  cases  or  to  persons 
with  whom  it  wou'd  be  your  own  desire  to  communicate  unre- 
servedly. 


J.  Lawrance  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  June  4,  1799. 
My  Dear  Sir: 

.  .  .  There  never  was  a  time,  my  good  friend,  that  money 
was  in  greater  demand,  and  prices  so  low,  except  some  articles  of 
produce,  as  within  some  time  past.  Bills  on  London  at  New  York 
10  per  cent  under  par — here  I2j,  the  New  Loan  on  the  payments 
made  8  per  cent  under  par.  Since  I  have  been  a  Director  in  the 
Bank,  the  demand  for  credit  has  not  been  greater.  Very  liberal 
aid  has  been  afforded,  &,  I  believe,  in  a  short  time,  the  press  will 
considerably  lessen.  Our  Commerce  at  present  absorbs  an  im- 
mense capital.  The  trade  round  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope  has 
increased,  beyond  what  could  have  been  contemplated.  Indeed 
nearly  all  our  Capital,  as  well  actual  as  nominal,  is  engaged  in 
Commerce.  Scarcely  any  is  left  for  any  other  object.  The 
Eight  per  cent  Loan  was  an  object,  with  many,  of  Speculation, 
but  it  has  not  answered.     The  payment  not  having  been   made 

*  See  note  Letter  of  June  8th. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  29 


stock,  but  resting  in  the  shape  of  script,  has  been  prejudicial,  as 
it  prevented  its  negociability,  where  money  was  to  have  been  had 
for  it,  and  the  Capital  of  our  Country,  would  not  admit  of  so 
much  being  taken  from  it,  to  remain  inactive — but  one  half  the 
payments  will  be  consolidated  into  stock  the  next  month,  and  I 
suppose  it  will  aid  it  something.  This  Loan  started  with  great 
advantages,  but  in  its  course  it  has  lost  them,  and  it  is  probable 
when  we  borrow  again,  and  borrow  we  must,  the  lenders  may  not 
be  so  numerous  as  they  were  at  8  per  cent.  I  have  had  nothing 
to  do  with  it.  My  capital,  you  know,  is  gone  into  Land,  and  as 
far  as  I  get  cash  I  apply  it  to  lessen  my  Debts.  No  Script  or 
Stock,  shall  tempt  me  to  risk  a  dollar  until  I  have  cleared  my 
concerns. 

The  Insurrection  in  this  State,  which  was  truly  contemptible, 
is  done  with — the  principal  has  been  convicted  of  Treason  ;  but 
a  New  Trial  granted — Some  of  the  subordinate  culprits  fined  and 
Imprisoned.  Our  Country  is  increasing  in  strength  and  resources 
and  we  shall  be  able  to  maintain,  I  believe,  the  rights  we 
assert.     .     .     .  Yours  with  the  utmost  sincerity, 

John  Lawrance. 

R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State. — No.  40. 

London,  June  5,  1799, 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  English  Ambassador,  Lord  Elgin*  is  not  yet  gone  upon  his 
mission  to  the  Porte.  Altho'  you  have  given  me  no  instructions  to  do 
it,  I  have  thought  it  advisable  as  of  myself  to  speak  again  to  Ld. 
Grenville  respecting  the  negotiation  we  are  about  to  commence  in 
that  quarter.  From  the  peculiar  character  of  that  Govt.,  and  espe- 
cially at  this  moment,  Mr.  Smith  will  want  the  assistance  of,  and, 
as  I  am  informed  is  the  custom  in  regard  to  Nations  with  whom 
the  Porte  has  never  treated,  must  be  made  known  at  Constantinople 
by  the  minister  of  some  nation  with  which  the  Porte  is  in  friendship. 
Ld.  Grenville  renewed  the  assurances  which  he  had  formerly  given 
to  me  and  added  that  before  Lord  Elgin's  Departure,  he  wd.  take 
an  opportunity  of  conversing  with  him  more  particularly  upon  this 
subject.     Ld.   Grenville  at  the  same  time  added  that  Sir  Charles 

^Words  in  italics  in  cipher. 


3<D  RUFUS  KING.  Lz799 

Whitworth,  their  Minister  at  Peter sburgh  had  lately  informed  him 
that  we  should  find  no  difficulty  in  concluding  a  commercial  Treaty 
with  Russia  6°  that  a  Dispatch  had  been  sent  to  Count  Woronzow, 
the  Russian  Envoy  here,  to  signify  to  me  the  Disposition  of  his  Court 
upon  this  Subject.  Accordingly  Count  Woronzow  yesterday  told  me 
that  he  had  received  a  Dispatch  from  his  Coitrt  informing  him,  that 
in  consequence  of  his  information  that  the  American  Govt,  pro- 
tected the  cause  of  order  and  Religion,  was  in  friendship  with  Eng- 
land'6°  the  allies  of  Russia,  and  held  in  abhorrence  the  conduct  of  the 
Erench,  that  Russia  was  ready  to  concur  in  a  more  direct  intercourse 
with  the  U.  S.  and  to  cone  hide  a  commercial  Treaty  between  the  two 
Countries.  The  Count  added  that  the  communication  of  this  infor- 
mation was  referred  to  his  discretion  and  to  be  governed  by  circum- 
stances ;  that  he  had  no  reserve  in  remarking  to  me,  that  the  suc- 
cess of  the  negotiation  must  in  his  opinion  at  least  for  the  present 
depend  upon  our  situation  with  France.  If  we  were  about  a  nego- 
tiation with  France,  it  would,  in  his  opinion  be  advisable  for  us  to 
suspend  further  proceedings  with  Russia :  that  for  the  want  of 
information  on  this  point,  he  did  not  officially  make  the  communi- 
cation to  me  that  he  was  authorized  to  do,  the?  he  had  thought  it 
proper  to  say  thus  much  personally  and  confidentially  with  the  view 
that  I  might  if  I  chose  communicate  what  he  had  so  said  to  my 
Govt.  On  this  occasion,  as  formerly,  he  told  me  that  the  negotiation 
whenever  it  took  place  according  to  the  unvaried  usage  of  their 
Court  must  be  conducted  either  at  Peter  sburgh  or  Philadelphia. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  June  5,  1799. 

.  .  .  We  have  advices  from  Dr.  Stevens  at  St.  Domingo. 
He  was  received  by  General  Toussaint  with  all  possible  attention 
and  with  joy  by  the  Inhabitants  ;  but  the  act  of  Roume,  the 
Directorial  Agent,  is  very  far  short  of  the  regulations  contem- 
plated as  necessary  to  warrant  a  renewal  of  our  commercial  inter- 
course. Dr.  Stevens  and  Toussaint  were  sensible  of  this  and 
therefore  the  letter  gave  private  and  verbal  assurances,  that  all 
we  desire  for  the  safety  of  our  commerce,  should   in  reality  be 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  7.\ 


granted,  and  that  altho'  the  public  Act  of  Roume  proposed  to 
regulate  privateering,  there  should  in  fact  be  nothing  to  regulate, 
privateering  should  be  abolished.     .     .     . 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 
{Private?) 

London,  June  5,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  As  you  cannot  have  misconceived  my  sentiments  and 
opinions  concerning  the  late  nomination  to  France,  I  will  not  give 
you  the  trouble  to  read,  nor  myself  the  pain  of  saying  a  word  re- 
specting it.  Here  I  have  observed  a  line  of  conduct  that  on 
mature  consideration  appeared  to  be  prudent,  both  as  regards  the 
respect  &  duty  I  owe  to  the  President,  and  which  it  would  be  an 
indecency  to  violate,  and  likewise  the  importance  of  maintaining, 
as  far  as  possible,  the  high  and  advantageous  ground  that  in  the 
opinion  of  this  and  of  the  other  countries,  we  had  attained.  I  flatter 
myself  that  my  explanations  have  not  been  without  their  utility, 
as  I  also  do  that  what  was  subsequently  done  with  you,  assisted 
by  what  has  lately  passed,  and  is  passing  in  Europe,  and  which 
may  possibly  be  followed  by  events  of  great  magnitude  as  well  as 
of  the  highest  interest  to  mankind,  will  operate  to  correct  or  re- 
trieve any  mistakes  that  we  may  have  made  in  our  negotiations 
with  France. 

The  President  may  be  informed  by  those  whose  advice,  as  I 
conjecture,  has  had  its  influence  in  producing  the  late  appoint- 
ment and  whose  infallibility  urges  them  to  support  their  first 
opinion,  that  the  Reverses  and  present  embarrassments  of  France 
present  an  occasion  favorable  to  the  adjustment  of  our  disagree- 
ments. We  may  be  deceived  again  as  we  have  been  before  con- 
cerning the  state  of  France,  as  well  as  with  regard  to  the  power 
of  the  Allies  ;  but  little  prone  as  I  am  to  confide  in  the  consist- 
ency of  confederacies,  or  the  constancy  of  victory,  I  am  per- 
suaded that  at  no  period  of  the  war,  not  even  in  1793,  did  the 
affairs  of  France  appear  in  so  difficult  a  situation  as  they  do  at 
present  :  and  for  that  reason  Prudence  seems  to  require  that  we 
should  not  be  in  haste. 

Sieyes'  acceptance  of  a  seat  in  the  Directory  has   given  birth 


32  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

pretty  generally  to  an  opinion,  that  a  Proposition  will  soon  be 
made  by  France,  and  some  say  it  will  come  thro'  the  King  of 
Prussia,  for  a  general  Peace  upon  the  Basis  of  the  ancient  Limits. 
England  expects  it  and  has,  if  I  mistake  not,  beforehand  decided 
against  it.  The  late  speeches  in  Parliament  of  the  Ministers  Pitt 
&  Windham  throw  some  light  upon  the  opinions  of  the  Cabinet. 
The  re-establishment  of  Monarchy  in  France  seems  to  be  repre- 
sented as  the  only  event  that  can  give  a  secure  peace  to  Europe — 
Perhaps  the  Policy  of  these  Declarations  and  opinions  may  be 
questioned,  admitting  even  that  no  Peace  can  be  durable  and  no 
country  safe  or  independent,  so  long  as  the  immoral  and  restless 
Principles  that  for  some  years  have  influenced  France,  continue 
to  exist  and  to  govern  it. 

You  are  doubtless  sufficiently  acquainted  with  the  character  of 
the  Russian  Government  and  of  its  chief,  to  account  for  the  com- 
munication contained  in  my  public  letter  of  this  Date.  The  Em- 
peror is  more  heartily  and  zealously  engaged  against  France  than 
any  of  the  Allies,  and  is  not  likely  to  make  nice  discriminations 
upon  the  Rights  of  Nations,  the  whole  of  whom,  in  his  eyes,  are 
required  to  enter  the  list  on  the  side  of  the  Allies,  instead  of  pur- 
suing measures  calculated  to  reconcile  themselves  or  their  affairs 
with  the  French.  I  am  endeavouring  to  collect  and  methodize 
information  concerning  the  footing  of  different  nations  in  their 
trade  with  Russia.  If  I  am  not  mistaken,  the  Result  will  show 
the  considerable  disadvantages  under  which  our  trade  is  carried 
on,  when  compared  with  that  of  others  with  whom  Russia  has 
concluded  commercial  treaties  ;  as  yet  I  cannot  speak  with  con- 
fidence on  this  subject — you  see  that  the  negotiation  cannot  be 
carried  on  or  considered  at  a  third  place. 

I  must  do  as  well  as  I  can,  but  I  very  much  regret  that  I  am 
wholly  without  any  information  from  you  respecting  the  interrup- 
tion of  the  Comn.  under  the  6th  Article  of  the  Eng.  Treaty — Lord 
Grenville  has  received  such  accounts  as  may  lead  to  some  meas- 
ures that  we  should  wish  to  avoid  concerning  the  Commission 
here.  We  are  to  confer  upon  this  subject,  as  also  upon  the  busi- 
ness that  carried  Genl.  Maitland  to  Philadelphia  in  a  day  or  two. 
I  have  reason  to  apprehend  that  what  has  been  done  at  Philadel- 
phia &  which  I  only  know  from  Lord  Grenville,  does  not  meet  his 
Lordship's  approbation  :  tho'  you  must  not  infer  that  there  will 


1799]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  33 

exist  any  serious  opposition — Indeed  I  cannot  form  any  satis- 
factory opinion  on  this  subject,  as  I  am  not  acquainted  with  what 
has  been  done,  nor  shall  I  be  until  I  see  the  agreements.  .  .  . 
I  have  once  mentioned  to  you  the  very  small  salary  of  Maj. 
Lenox  ;  his  services  here  are  necessary  and  he  certainly  ought  to 
be  better  paid.  His  economy  in  the  expenditure  of  the  public 
money,  as  you  will  perceive  by  his  accounts,  is  very  great,  and 
the  expenses  are  consequently  much  less  than  they  wd.  be  in 
many  other  Hands  ;  this  is  an  additional  motive  to  his  being 
allowed  a  more  adequate  compensation.  Not  knowing  when  Mr. 
Smith  wd.  leave  Lisbon,  nor  how  his  Mission  to  Constantinople 
wd.  affect  the  situation  of  your  Son,  I  sent  a  few  mails  since  to 
Mr.  Smith  your  letters  to  him  &  to  your  son,  and  copies  of  your 
letter  to  me  and  of  my  answer,  stating  to  Mr.  Smith  my  motives 
for  doing  so,  and  the  satisfaction  I  shd.  have  in  receiving  your 
son,  should  he  conclude  to  leave  Lisbon  before  he  heard  further 
from  you. 

With  sincere  attachment  I  am, 

K. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  5  June,  1799. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.    .    .    I  have  nothing  new  that  is  worth  communicating.     Our 

little  navy  is  increasing.     In  a  day  or  two  we  shall  have  a  ship 

launched  that  is   building  for    Valentine    Morris,    one    of    the 

sons  of  the  late  General  Morris.      In  the  Fall,  the  forty  four 

gun  ship  now  building  at  Corlear's  Hook  will  be  ready  for  sea. 

Our  seventy  fours  also  are  getting  on  the  stocks,  and  we  shall  in 

the  course  of  the  next  year  be  in  possession  of  a  respectable  naval 

force.     Our  trade  is  very  active  and  extensive  and  is  supposed  to 

be  lucrative.     The  advantages  we  have  derived  from  our  naval 

exertions  are  incalculable.     Our  ships  of  war  have  been  treated 

with  great  attention  and  respect  in  the  West  Indies.     Truxton  has 

lately  returned  to  the  United  States.     .     .     .     He  is  everywhere 

received  with  addresses  and  public  entertainments.     .     .     .    The 

French  privateers  have  lately  abandoned  our  coasts  ;  we  are  now 

obliged  to  hunt  them  up  in  the  West  India  seas.     Truxton's  vic- 

VOL.   III. — 3 


34  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

m  ■■  -■■■■  ■  ■-  -■• ■  .  ■   ■.- —■■■■■  -—  .  ,  ,  ,  ,.  mm 

tory  has  had  a  happy  tendency  to  increase  the  ardor  of  our  naval 
spirits.  .  .  .  Our  army  is  also  beginning  to  display  itself.  .  .  . 
Genl.  Hamilton  appears  to  be  much  occupied  with  his  military 
correspondence  and  arrangements.  The  law  has  nearly  aban- 
doned him,  or  rather  he  has  forsaken  it.  The  loss  he  sustains  is 
immense  !  .  .  .  I  am  really  surprised  at  the  remarks  which 
you  make  about  the  English  courts  and  lawyers  in  your  letter  of 
the  16th  March  last.  As  the  profession  is  divided  in  that  country, 
I  have  always  conceived  there  was  more  learning  and  ability  to 
be  found  both  on  the  bench  and  at  the  bar  than  could  be  met 
with  here.  At  present,  our  bar  is  very  able,  and  our  bench  is 
improved,  and  bids  fair  to  be  eminent.  Kent  and  Radcliff  our 
two  young  judges  are  emulous  and  studious.  Dallas  has  lately 
published  a  second  volume  of  reports,  and  part  of  it  comprehends 
adjudications  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States.  I  think 
they  would  be  read  in  England  with  avidity  by  the  lovers  of  legal 
disquisitions.     .     .     . 

The  next  Congress  will  of  course  be  perfectly  safe,  and  I  trust 
all  will  go  right.  A  war  with  France  would  not  shock  the  feelings 
of  the  nation  ;  on  the  contrary  they  would  be  gratified  with  the 
measure.  .  .  .  The  situation  of  St.  Domingo  is  to  me  incom- 
prehensible. Roume  and  Toussaint  say  they  are  well  attached  to 
the  French  Republic — and  Roume  calls  himself  a  special  agent  of 
the  Directory  lately  arrived  from  France  at  St.  Domingo.  Des- 
fourneau  at  Guadaloupe  was  so  much  enraged  with  Truxton's 
victory  that  he  has  in  form  declared  war  against  us.  Dr.  Stevens, 
Hamilton's  friend,  has  been  formally  received  by  Roume  and 
Toussaint  as  Consul  General  from  the  United  States.  .  .  .  The 
situation  of  Genl.  Maitland's  Treaty  with  Toussaint,  we  cannot 
learn.  All  is  thus  far  enveloped  with  obscurity.  It  is  certain 
that  commercial  speculations  are  now  maturing  for  the  St. 
Domingo  market. 

Our  trade  to  the  Indies  and  China  is  immense  ;  and  the  late 
voyages  are  said  to  have  been  very  profitable.  Take  the  whole 
of  our  Commerce  into  view,  and  it  is  certainly  in  a  very  flourish- 
ing state.  The  late  shipments  of  specie  to  India  and  China  have 
so  drained  the  vaults  of  our  banks,  that  at  present  we  have  a 
heavy  pressure  for  money.  This  pressure  is  increased  by  a  reso- 
lution of  the  Manhattan  Company  lately  announced  to  set  up  a 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  35 


new  bank.  ...  I  cannot  avoid  dwelling  upon  our  glorious 
triumph  [the  result  of  the  election  in  New  York  City.- — Ed.].  ...  It 
is  considered  as  forming  a  new  era  in  the  annals  of  federal  politics. 
If  Burr  had  continued  two  or  three  sessions  more  in  our  Legisla- 
ture, it  is  a  pretty  prevalent  opinion  that  he  would  have  disorgan- 
ized the  whole  state.  The  democratical  system,  for  some  time 
past,  has  been  to  establish  a  preponderating  influence  in  the  state 
Legislatures  under  a  despair  of  being  able  to  control,  for  the 
present,  the  measures  of  Congress.  With  this  view,  Mr.  Madison 
has  lately  gone  into  the  Virginia  Legislature.  We  are  told,  how- 
ever, that  Mr.  Patrick  Henry  has  followed  into  the  same  branch 
of  the  Legislature  to  oppose  him.     .     .     . 

No  opinion  is  yet  formed  in  relation  to  our  next  election  of 
President  and  Vice  President.  Mr.  Adams  has  been  so  desultory 
n  his  administration,  that  the  public  confidence  in  his  discretion 
is  greatly  impaired.  To  govern  by  fits  and  starts — without  the 
advice  of  his  friends  around  him — nay  without  even  consulting 
them — in  order  to  be  characterised  as  an  independent  man — free 
from  influence — is  not  a  system  calculated  for  solid  and  durable 
fame.  He  still  continues  at  Braintree,  and  the  government,  like 
Pope's  wounded  snake,  drags  its  slow  length  along.  He  will 
never  recover  from  the  wound  he  gave  himself  in  making  the 
advances    he    has    made,    since    Gerry's    return,    towards    the 

Directory.     .     .     . 

God  bless  you, 

R.  T. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Gt.  Cumberland  Place,  June  5,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  yr.  Ld.  p's  Note  of  the  27.  ulto., 
inclosing  a  Copy  of  Mr.  Nepean's  letter  to  Mr.  Hammond  respect- 
ing the  description  of  Nails  not  included  in  the  provisions  of  the 
18th  article  of  our  Treaty  of  Amity,  Commerce  &  Navign.  This 
description  appears  to  me  to  be  satisfactory,  and  nothing  now 
remains  to  attain  the  object  of  my  Note  of  the  25.  March,  but  to 
agree  in  a  like  satisfactory  description  of  such  Cloth,  as  upon  the 
allegation  of  its  being  Sail-Cloth,  is  erroneously  supposed  to  be 


36  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

contraband  of  war,  and  so  included  within  the  Provisions  of  the 
above  mentioned  Article. 

On  this  head  I  take  the  liberty  to  propose  to  yr.  Ld.p.  that  it 
shall  be  agreed  "  that  Oznaburghs,  Ficklenburghs,  Russia  Sheet- 
ing and  all  other  cloths  made  of  Hemp  or  Flax,  and  not  generally 
and  chiefly  made  use  of  for  the  sails  of  ships,"  shall  be  excepted 
from  the  Provisions  of  the  aforesaid  Article  of  our  Treaty. 

It  seems  hardly  necessary  to  remark  that  the  comprehensive 
Provision  of  the  Treaty  in  question  in  respect  to  articles  deemed 
contraband  of  war,  secures  all  the  material  or  important  Rights  & 
Interests  of  the  Belligerent,  &  that  it  cannot  be  desireable  to  en- 
large the  construction  of  these  Provisions,  so  as  to  embarrass  the 
Neutral  in  a  Trade  little  or  not  at  all  capable  of  being  any  way 
prejudicial  to  the  Belligerent.  With  the  most  perfect  Reliance  on 
yr.  Ld.p's  liberality  &  moderation  on  this,  as  on  other  &  more 
important  occasions, 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  &c.  &c 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  III. 

Cabot  to  King — Doubts  Toussaint's  Plans,  and  Wisdom  of  Interference  with 
Colonies  of  European  Neighbors — La  Fayette's  Mission  to  the  United 
States — King  to  Hamilton — Continental  Affairs — To  Secretary  of  State — 
Condition  of  War  in  Europe — Ames  to  King — France  must  be  fought  with 
till  fought  down — Review  of  Affairs  at  Home — Prospect  more  favorable — 
Trade  flourishes — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Conference  with  Lord 
Grenville  relative  to  Proceedings  of  Commissioners  under  the  6th  Article — 
Their  Secession  would  cause  those  under  the  7th  to  be  stopped,  notwith- 
standing King's  Remonstrances — St.  Domingo — Pickering  to  King — 
Directs  him  to  persevere  in  denying  the  Right  of  British  Men-of-War  to 
take  any  Man  whatever  from  our  Ships  of  War. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

June  8,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

If  we  may  judge  from  the  Documents  published  by  Citizen 
Roume  the  affairs  of  Hispaniola  are  proceeding  in  a  train  some- 
what different  from  what  Gen'l  Maitland  intended  &  in  this  case 
I  shou'd  hope  the  U.  S.  &  G.  B.  wou'd  be  equally  determined  to 
discountenance  them. — it  may  be  a  finesse  to  answer  some  party  or 
personal  purposes  that  they  assume  the  present  shape  or  it  may 
be  intended  to  amuse  the  Directory  &  therefore  allowed,  but  I 
confess  my  own  apprehensions  are  that  Toussaint  with  his 
advisers  is  practising  with  his  Enemies  upon  the  expectation  of 
giving  the  Colony  to  France.  I  know  nothing  but  from  the 
Newspapers.  It  has  been  repeatedly  intimated  to  me  from  your 
side  the  water  that  we  ought  to  be  prepared  to  take  active  meas- 
ures for  guiding  the  Revolution  which  seems  to  be  expected 
among  our  Southern  Neighbors — it  is  obvious  enough  that  such 
an  event,  if  it  happens,  will  have  great  influence  upon  our  affairs 
whether  we  wish  it  or  not — but  is  the  event  desirable  ?  There 
are  several  points  of  view  in  which  the  present  state  of  things  ap- 

37 


38  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

pears  more  favorable  to  our  interests  than  a  change  wou'd  be  :  I 
wou'd  say  particularly  that  there  is  a  considerable  degree  of 
political  consequence  derived  from  our  being  the  only  power 
bordering  upon  the  Colonies  of  the  European  Nations  &  this 
consequence  must  increase  in  the  double  ratio  of  our  own  incre- 
ment &  that  of  those  Colonies.  It  has  already  procured  us  some 
avowed  consideration  &  if  I  mistake  not  much  that  is  dissembled. 
If  our  Govt,  was  so  consolidated  as  to  have  anything  like  a  steady 
policy  we  cou'd  from  our  local  situation  maintain  as  much  influ- 
ence among  the  maritime  nations  as  wou'd  be  necessary.  Spain 
must  always  know  that  we  could  give  to  her  american  subjects 
Independence  :  France  can  never  hope  to  vie  with  England  on 
the  Sea,  nor  even  to  support  her  Colonies  in  war  without  a  good 
understanding  with  us.  Whatever  value  our  friendship  in  this 
respect  may  have  in  the  estimate  of  France,  it  must  for  the  same 
reason  have  in  that  of  England  &  the  unwillingness  of  each  to 
throw  us  into  the  scale  of  the  other  will  in  ordinary  times  be  an 
adequate  security  for  their  treating  us  with  moderation  & 
respect. 

If  the  Colonies  of  Spain  were  independent  they  cou'd  be  used 
against  us  by  any  patronizing  power — now  they  can  not  be  so  used 
&  are  a  very  strong  tie  upon  the  parent  State.  I  can  hardly  con- 
ceive of  any  State  possessing  a  greater  advantage  over  another 
than  the  U.  S.  over  Spain.  If  we  have  not  realized  it,  it  still  is 
evident  that  while  Spain  holds  South  America  in  subjection  she 
must  be  extremely  unwilling  to  be  embroiled  with  us. 

Nevertheless  we  ought  to  provide  for  every  probable  contin- 
gency &  if  a  new  power  is  in  parturition  which  will  grow  up  by 
our  side  we  ought  to  attend  to  its  birth  &  so  to  regulate  its  edu- 
cation as  to  render  it  as  good  a  neighbor  as  possible. 

You  will  see  by  the  Gazette  that  we  take  some  pains  to  guard 
the  Community  against  the  deceptions  of  La  Fayette  if  he  shou'd 
come,  &  I  am  persuaded  very  few  will  in  reality  be  deceived,  for 
I  don't  call  those  deceived  who  look  only  for  a  pretext  to  cover 
their  weakness  or  mischief  ;  but  I  don't  mean  to  express  an 
opinion  that  he  will  do  no  harm  ;  I  certainly  think  every  Minister 
wou'd  do  harm  who  shou'd  come  &  offer  every  thing  tho'  nothing 
shou'd  be  performed.* 

*  The  allusion  in  this  and  in  the  letter  of  June  4th  is  to  several  articles  pub- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  39 

We  are  now  felicitating  ourselves  with  the  hope  that  Revolu- 
tionary France  is  going  to  that  Ruin  which  must  ultimately  be 
her  fate  ;  if  the  Austrians  follow  their  strokes  for  a  few  weeks 
only  all  Europe  may  be  again  free — the  French  will  soon  crumble 

lished  in  J.  Russell's  Gazette — Commercial  and  Political,  Boston,  May  30,  June 
3,  and  June  6,  1799. 

The  first  states  that  in  the  belief  of  writers  of  letters,  both  at  home  and 
abroad,  "  the  country  was  never  in  greater  danger  than  at  this  moment,"  when 
the  Directory  of  France,  which  "  know  perfectly  well  the  nature  of  parties  and 
their  relative  strength,  are  persuaded  that  our  people  will  not  voluntarily  submit 
to  great  burdens  and  sufferings  to  secure  themselves  against  those  who  profess  to 
be  their  friends.  .  .  .  It  is  probable  that  a  new  minister  will  be  sent  to 
Philadelphia.  .  .  .  It  is  easier  to  manage  the  people  home,  than  the  Dele- 
gates of  their  government  here,  especially  if  you  send  for  the  purpose  a  man 
who  enjoys  the  reputation  of  being  their  friend." 

This  is  followed,  on  the  same  date,  by  a  communication,  signed  American 
Independence,  most  probably  from  Mr.  Cabot,  beginning  : 

"  It  is  most  probable  that  the  Directory  have  recalled  from  exile  a  certain 
Ex-General,  supposed  to  be  popular  in  America,  professes  a  great  regard  for 
both  countries,  for  the  purpose  of  sending  him  Envoy  Extraordinary  to  the 
United  States.  If  this  be  true,  it  is  probable  that  the  measure  was  foreseen  by 
the  President  and  was  one  of  the  reasons  which  led  to  the  late  nomination  ;  for 
it  must  be  admitted  that  it  is  infinitely  better  to  meet  the  French  on  their  own 
ground  than  to  have  their  intriguing  emissaries  among  us.  And  I  contend  that 
a  more  dangerous  man  than  La  Fayette  could  not  be  sent  here  .  .  .  He 
would  recall  the  tender  remembrances  of  his  former  embassy  .  .  .  when 
he  flew  .  .  .  to  fight  the  battles  of  freedom  and  would  conjure  us  by  the 
past,  the  present,  and  the  future  to  hear  him  and  believe  him. 

"  In  the  talents  and  integrity,  the  patriotism  and  the  experience  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States,  we  have  the  most  solid  and  consolatory  pledges  that 
nothing  will  be  done  by  the  Executive  which  will  commit  the  independence  and 
security  of  the  country.  .  .  .  Let  then  honorable  confidence  in  the  con- 
stituted authorities,  so  essential  to  our  prosperity  and  safety,  be  inculcated 
and  cherished,  foreign  intrigue  constantly  exposed,  and  domestic  faction  stripped 
of  its  veil.     .     .     ." 

On  June  3d  another  commuuication,  signed  as  above,  is  published,  speaking 
of  another  letter  received  from  Europe.  This  article  warns  the  people  against 
the  seductive  wiles  of  the  French  Directory,  and  says  :  "  The  President's  con- 
duct must  have  greatly  disconcerted  them,  but  I  am  still  inclined  to  think  they 
will  persevere  in  sending  an  Envoy." 

On  June  6th  a  continuation  of  this  subject  is  presented,  in  which  reference  is 
made  to  the  wrongs  and  blustering  of  France,  until  they  found  "  John  Adams 
was  not  to  be  scared,  when  they  changed  their  note  and  whined  and  almost  wept 
about  their  dear  Sister's  love.     .     .     .     The  Directory  cannot  send  armies,  but 


40  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

under  adversity,  &  there  must  be  in  the  enslaved  Countries  Vol- 
canoes of  vengeance  ready  to  burst  forth. 

I  hope  you  don't  grow  tired  with  your  office  &,  if  you  do,  I 
entreat  that  you  will  not  yield  to  personal  considerations,  but  stay 
where  you  can  render  the  country  infinite  service — I  am  too  proud 
&  I  hope  too  sincere  to  flatter  but  I  can  not  and  ought  not  to 
conceal  my  opinion  that  you  can  do  us  more  good  than  any  man 
in  the  various  &  uncertain  conjunctures  which  a  little  time  may 

bring  about. 

Yours  truly, 

G.  C. 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup.* 

London,  ii  June,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  congratulate  you  upon  the  issue  of  our  City  Election,  as  also 
of  that  wh.  has  lately  taken  place  in  Virginia — The  mail  of  this 
Morning  brings  us  further  advices  of  the  Progress  of  the  Allies 
both  in  Italy  and  in  Switzerland — there  is  a  good  Prospect  that 
both  these  Countries  are  soon  to  be  delivered  from  the  Plunder 
and  Tyranny  of  the  french — The  English  are  preparing  an  Army 
to  be  employed  on  for.  service,  and  the  conjecture  is  that  Holland 
is  the  object — the  45,000  Russians  in  Eng.  Pay  are  in  full  march 
and  will  soon  reach  the  scene  of  action — The  Brest  fleet,  whose 
real  object  was  to  form  a  junction  with  that  of  Spain,  were  at  the 
date  of  the  last  advices  at  Toulon.  Ld.  St.  Vincent  has  followed 
them  with  a  force  sufficient  to  fight  or  block  them  up.     On  the 

they  can  send  Lafayette,  if  he  is  mean  enough  to  come  on  such  a  trickish 
errand." 

The  embassy  was  not  sent.  The  President's  purpose  was  carried  out,  but  it 
is  interesting  to  see  how  earnestly  the  warning  against  the  possible  issue  of  such 
a  proposition  was  given  by  those  old  patriots  when  they  believed  their  country's 
welfare  was  at  stake.  There  is  a  note  on  page  628,  in  vol.  viii.  of  the  Life  and 
Works  of  John  Adams,  which  says  :  "  General  Lafayette  in  a  letter  addressed 
to  Mr.  McHenry  on  the  18th  of  April,  which  has  not  been  printed,  says  :  '  I 
must  express  the  happiness  I  have  felt  in  hearing  that  plenipotentiary  Ministers 
are  going  from  the  United  States  to  bring  about  a  reconciliation  with  France. 
I  am  persuaded,  as  I  have  formerly  writteti,  that  the  French  government  are  in 
earnest.'  " 

*  Hamilton  Papers,  vol.  xvi.,  p.  197. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  4 1 

whole  the  prospects  of  the  Allies  are  favorable  &  promising,  and 
the  Difficulties  of  france  greater  than  at  any  former  period.  Still 
the  french  are  a  most  formidable  and  extremely  dangerous 
Enemy. 

YrsK. 
[Endorsed]  R.  King, 

June  11.  99. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  41. 

London,  June  11,  1799. 

Dear  Sir  : 

The  Packet  will  sail  before  I  shall  be  able  to  give  you  any  pre- 
cise information  concerning  the  effect  of  the  Embarrassment  of 
the  Commission  at  Philadelphia  upon  the  Business  of  the  Com- 
mission here  or  relative  to  the  affair  that  carried  Genl.  Maitland 
to  America. 

I  am  in  hopes  of  being  able  to  agree  upon  an  explanatory  & 
satisfactory  Article  respecting  Sail  cloth  and  Nails. 

By  the  mail  of  this  morning  accts.  are  received  of  the  Surren- 
der of  Citadel  of  Milan.  Moreau  after  an  unsuccessful  attack 
upon  the  Austrian  and  Russian  advanced  Posts  has  retired  from 
his  Camp  in  the  fork  of  the  Janaro  &  the  Po  to  Coni.  This  pre- 
serves his  communications  with  France  and  gives  to  the  army  of 
Naples  still  a  chance  of  forming  a  junction  with  him.  The  Arch 
Duke  has  entered  Switzerland  where  several  actions  have  taken 
place  with  the  French  under  Massena,  whose  head  quarters  at 
the  date  of  our  last  accounts  was  at  Zurich,  near  which  it  seems 
probable  a  battle  will  be  fought  that  must  decide  the  fate  of 
Switzerland.  The  45,000  Russians  in  the  pay  of  England  are  in 
full  march  and  will  soon  arrive  at  the  scene  of  action. 

England  is  preparing  an  Expedition  supposed  to  be  intended 
for  the  deliverance  of  Holland.  No  certain  accounts  have  been 
received  of  the  Brest  fleet  since  its  arrival  at  Toulon.  Lord  St. 
Vincent  has  followed  it  with  a  sufficient  force  to  block  it  up  in 
Toulon  or  to  fight  it.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


42  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

F.  Ames  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  June  12th,  1799. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  would  be,  or  seem  to  be,  too  civil  by  half,  if  I  were  to  tell  you 
that  it  is  the  fashion  to  think  we  are  strong  in  England  ;  which 
however  was  the  phrase  of  Genl.  Washington.  Now  if  any  thing 
goes  wrong  in  regard  to  the  amiable  dispositions  which  the  Chroni- 
cle accused  me  of  crediting  G.  B.  for,  you  are  to  expect  to  be 
holden  to  answer.  If  the  Emperor  fights  faint,  if  the  K.  of  Prus- 
sia will  not  fight  at  all,  or  if  Buonaparte  fights  too  long  or  too 
hardly  in  Egypt  we  must  look  to  some  one  in  office  to  lay  the 
blame  upon.  For  your  sake,  I  wish  that  Trowbridge  may  glean 
some  laurels  in  Nelson's  field  &c,  &c,  &c.  We  shall  never  turn 
our  eyes  on  ourselves  and  see  how  much  we  expect  from  others, 
how  little  we  do  for  ourselves.  Gore  and  our  friends  in  London 
are  mortified  and  sadly  disappointed  in  the  events  of  our  politics. 
I  admit  you  have  reason  to  be  so.  The  mission  of  new  envoys 
was  strange  indeed,  and  though  I  am  less  surprised,  I  am  no  bet- 
ter pleased  than  I  was  at  first.  Yet,  after  all,  I  am  not  clear  that 
our  ground  could  have  been  by  other,  and  I  admit  more  sound 
measures,  essentially  better  than  it  is.  France  is  to  be  fought 
with  till  she  is  fought  down,  till  her  Power  is  moderate,  and  her 
ambition,  which  never  will  be  moderate,  will  then  be  harmless. 
But  as  fighting  for  some  years,  building  great  ships  and  spending 
millions  is  not  to  our  Dutch  taste,  and  the  most  resentful  of  the 
enemies  of  France  among  us  dare  not  say  half  as  much  as  I  do, 
the  Public  Spirit  is  yet  a  mere  braggart,  and  spends  itself  in  ad- 
dresses. I  think  we  ought  to  be  and  ought  long  ago  to  have  been 
in  open  war.  Even  then  a  treaty  offered  by  France,  rich  in 
promise,  soothing  to  our  pride,  and  an  excuse  for  our  parsimony 
that  grudges  the  charges  of  self  defence,  would  nearly  as  much 
paralise  our  energies  as  it  wd.  at  present,  if  La  Fayette  should 
come  with  one.  It  is  however  due  to  our  citizens  to  say  they 
have  outrun  the  Govt,  with  their  purses  and  their  zeal  which  was 
more  precious.  In  March  and  April  I  saw  clouds  and  thick  dark- 
ness in  our  horizon.  The  antis  were  buzzing  with  their  work  of 
sedition  and  electioneering  and  seemed  sure  of  getting  the  State 
Govts,  into  their  hands  to  play  them  like  batteries  on  the  U.  S. 
govt.     They  have  been  successfully  counteracted,  old  Masstts. 


17991  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  43 

stands  firm — a  few  more  antis  say  5  or  10  at  most  in  the  house, 
the  rest  firmer  and  warmer  on  that  very  acct.  In  N.  York  all  is 
going  right  as  we  hear.  Burr  is  out  of  credit,  tho'  his  water  or 
bank  scrip  has  turned  reputation  into  the  ready.  Virginia  sends 
say  ten  federalists  (so  called)  and  N.  Carolina  another  set.  Con- 
gress will  be  impressible,  if  public  opinion  should  point  to  meas- 
ures of  energy.  But  I  scarcely  know  what  in  our  awkward  pos- 
ture ought  to  be  proposed.  To  be  active  in  planning  and  urging 
such  measures  is  not  to  be  expected  in  any  govt,  except  from  the 
high  responsible  officers,  who  unfortunately  are  excluded  from  our 
Congress.  Events  must  be  waited  for,  and  if  you  take  care  that 
the  Arch  Duke  is  not  beaten,  we  shall  I  think  jog  on  as  well  as 
we  have  done  till  Jeff,  becomes  again  the  candidate  for  the  chair. 
Then  clamorque  virorum  clangorque  tubarum  ;  I  mean  in  the 
newspapers. 

The  Merchants  say  our  trade  flourishes,  is  well  protected,  little 
loss  by  captures  :  our  navy  is  of  course  very  popular  and  pro- 
digiously so  among  the  farmers.  The  Land  and  House  Tax 
progresses  and  will  yield  something  ;  it  may  be  made  a  great 
resource. 

Mr.  Warren  will  inform  you  of  the  death  and  pompous  funeral 

of  Gov.  Sumner.    Lt.  Governor  Gill,  whom  you  know,  proceeds  to 

the  chair  for  the  year. 

Yrs.  truly 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  42. 

London,  June  14,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  last  Evening  received  a  note  from  Ld.  Grenville*  requesting 

to  see  me  this  morning.     I  waited  upon  his  Lordship  in  Cleveland 

How,  who  said  that  he  had  read  with  care  the  Proceedings  of  the 

Commissioners  under  the  6th  Article  of  our  Treaty  in  the  case  of 

Bishop  Inglis,  and  that  he  was   sorry  that  the  difficulties  that  had 

arisen  at  Philadelphia  had  not  been  removed  in  some  such  way  as 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


44  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

we  had  found  successful  here ;  that  he  thought  that  construction 
had  been  pushed  too  far,  &  doubtful  points  more  pertinaceously 
insisted  on  by  both  sides  at  Philadelphia  than  was  consistent  with  the 
real  object  of  the  Commission,  the  attainment  of  Justice  to  the 
British  Creditors  and  in  a  manner  so  far  as  practicable  compatible 
with  the  ordinary  course  of  our  Judiciary. 

He  was  moreover  ready  to  confess  that  on  our  side  there  did 
not  appear  to  him  sufficient  Evidence  to  warrant  the  conclusion 
that  Bishop  Inglis  could  not  have  recovered  his  Debt  in  the  ordi- 
nary course  of  Judicial  proceedings  ;  and  on  the  other  side  it 
must  be  evident  if  the  construction  of  our  Comi?iissioners  was  in- 
sisted upon,  that  it  would  in  a  great  measure  perhaps  wholly 
defeat  the  end  of  the  Article.  Under  these  circumstances  he  said 
he  had  concluded  to  write  to  Mr.  Liston  by  the  next  Packet,  to  open 
a  negotiation  with  our  Government  with  a  view  of  making  some 
such  agreement  respecting/^  Provisions  of  the  6th  Article,  as  had 
taken  place  between  him  6°  me  relative  to  those  of  the  yth.  A 
Time  might  be  agreed  on,  as  was  the  case  here,  within  which  our 
Courts  should  decide  the  Cases  brought  before  them, — this  must  be 
a  convenient  time  having  regard  to  the  nature  of  the  business  ; 
and  being  mutually  understood  would  require  no  formality.  A 
number  of  cases  in  each  class  might  in  this  way  be  decided  by  our 
Courts ;  he  presumed  that  we  would  not  insist  that  each  Case 
should  go  through  the  Courts  ;  assignments  might  then  be  made 
and  the  money  paid  as  had  been  agreed  to  be  done  here. 

They  had  given  up  the  Posts,  and  hitherto  done  whatever  de- 
pended upon  lhe?n  to  carry  into  full  Effect  the  Stipulations  of  the 
yth  Article  j  this  they  had  done  from  a  confidence  that  on  our  side 
correspondent  exertions  would  be  made  to  give  effect  to  the  Provi- 
sions of  the  6th  Ai'ticle.  Thoy  Mr.  Liston  had  given  them  but  little 
information  respecting  the  Commission  at  Philada.,  what  he  had 
given  was  very  important.  In  his  last  Dispatch,  which  informed 
them  of  the  secession  of  our  Commissrs.,  he  expressed  his  opinion 
that  the  Commissioners  would  not  agree  in  any  awards  and  that 
nothing  would  be  recovered  under  the  Commission.  In  this  situa- 
tion of  that  Commissn.  they  could  not  consent  that  the  Co?nmission 
here  should proceed ;  he  had  no  idea  of  breaking  it  up,  but  it  must 
be  suspended  until  that  at  Philada.  was  again  put  in  motion. 

From  the  tenor  of  this  communication,  as  well  as  from  some 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  45 

expressions  made  use  of  by  Lord  Grenville,  I  plainly  saw  that  the 
measure  had  been  considered  &  settled  in  the  Cabinet  and  conse- 
quently that  it  was  very  little  likely  that  any  observations  of  mine 
wd.  effect  a  change  in  what  had  been  so  agreed  on  j  still  /  judged  it 
suitable  to  observe  that  I  received  with  much  concern  the  communica- 
tion that  his  Lordship  had  just  made  j  that  true  it  was  that  the  Pro- 
ceedings in  the  case  of  Bishop  Inglis  bore  strong  marks  of  a  temper 
ill  suited  to  the  occasion,  but  that  we  could  not  consent  to  take  any 
portion  of  Blame  on  this  account,  as  most  clearly  the  construction 
asserted  by  their  Commissrs.,  and  from  which  we  only  exhibited  the 
reasons  of  our  dissent,  was  extravagant,  and  not  to  be  acquiesced 
in  or  defended.      We  had  promised  compensation  for  the  loss  and 
damage  of  British  Creditors  where  the  same  could  not  be  recovered 
in  our  Courts.     There  was  no  evidence  in  Bishop's  Inglis1  case 
that  compensation  could  not  there  be  recovered,  and  consequently 
no  case  was  made  out  for  the  interference  of  the  Commissrs.     So 
important  did  the  question  appear  to  me  and  especially  in  respect 
to  our  National  Faith  that  I  did  not  see  how  we  could  acquiesce 
in  the  reproach  that  wd.  be  fixed  on  our  character  by  consenting 
to  the  inferences  attempted  to  be  established  by  their  Commissrs., 
and  that  I  had  entertained  the  hope  that  the  conduct  of  their 
Commissrs.  would  have  appeared  to  them  in  such  a  light  as  to  have 
produced  an  instruction  calculated  to  have  removed  the  embarrass- 
ments that  had  arrested  the  progress  of  the  Commission. 

That  if  from  considerations  of  expediency  it  should  be  thought 
adviseable  to  suspend  for  the  present  awards  upon  their  Treasury  by 
the  Commission  here,  I  hoped  there  would  be  no  objection  to  the 
Commissrs.  proceeding  in  such  preliminary  Examinations  as  wd. 
bring  the  Business  to  a  state  to  be  soon  finished  after  the  satisfac- 
tory re?noval  of  the  Embarrassments  which  at  present  stop  the  Com- 
missrs. at  Philada.  Lord  Grenville  made  some  further  remarks  & 
we  entered  into  a  fruitless  conversation  respecting  the  Construction 
given  by  their  and  our  Commissrs.  to  the  Provisions  of  the  6th  Arti- 
cle, and  his  Lordship  concluded  by  saying  that  it  would  be  most 
satisfactory  that  the  two  Commissions  should  proceed  pari  passu, 
and  therefore  that  the  stopping  of  one  should  be  the  signal  of  the 
stopping  of  the  other  j  if  during  the  suspension  of  the  Commissn.  at 
Philada.,  that  at  London  should  be  employed  in  carrying  on  its  busi- 
ness to  its  last  stage,  nothing  would  remain  to  be  done  here  when 


46  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

the  present  suspension  at  Philada.  should  cease,  but  to  sign  awards 
which  might  be  completed  in  a  week,  the  Commission  here  brought 
to  an  end  before  any  real  progress  had  been  made  at  Philada. 
where  new  difficulties  and  farther  suspension  might  occur. 

With  respect  to  the  Treaty  signed^  Genl.  Maitland,  Lord Gren- 
ville  said  he  could  not  speak  to  me  with  the  same  decision  as  he 
had  done  respecting  the  two  Commissions,  as  it  had  been  concluded 
to  wait  for  information  from  the  General  after  his  arrival  at  St. 
Domingo.  His  own  opinion  at  present  was  that  the  Treaty  left 
their  Islands  exposed  to  great  Danger,  &  that  it  might  be  neces- 
sary to  relinquish  the  project  of  arrangement  with  Toussaint,  and 
to  protect  their  Trade  and  their  Colonies  in  the  best  manner  in  their 
power.  As  I  had  reed,  no  information  from  you  on  this  subject  I 
only  observed  that  we  had  had  no  share  in  bringing  about  the  state 
of  things  existing  at  St.  Domingo  j  that  we  as  well  as  they  had 
important  interests  liable  to  be  affected  by  this  new  State  of  the 
Negroes  and  like  them  were  called  upon  to  adopt  measures  of 
prudence  &  foresight  for  our  safety.  We  desired  to  act  in  concert 
with  England  for  obvious  reasons,  and  for  one  stronger  than  the 
rest  ;  that  notwithstanding  the  Treaty  between  Genl.  Maitland  and 
Toussaint,  England  might  treat  St.  Domingo  as  an  enemy  country 
&*  our  Trade,  should  it  be  opened  with  that  Island,  might,  in  this 
event,  again  be  liable  to  interruptions. 

Lord  Grenville  assented  to  the  justice  of  these  observations,  and 
the  conference  ended  after  some  further  conversation  concerning  the 
Dangers  to  the  British  West  Indies  as  well  as  to  our  Southern 
States  from  the  numerous  Inhabitants  of  St.  Domingo. 

I  expressed  my  opinion  in  favor  of  the  complete  Independence 
of  the  Island,  and  of  a  free  trade  with  it  as  the  best  means  of  re- 
taining the  negroes  in  the  state  of  mere  Cultivators  and  of  guarding 
against  the  Dangers  that  are  apprehended  from  them.  I  am  not 
sure  that  the  late  successes  of  the  allies  against  France,  and  the  rash 
confidence  that  seems  to  prevail  that  France  must  soon  submit  to  her 
enemies,  have  not  some  influence  upon  this  Cabinet  respecting  the 
future  condition  of  St.  Domingo,  and  possibly  upon  other  objects 
in  which  we  have  important  interests. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  47 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  June  14,  1799. 
Acknowledging  the  receipt  of  R.  King's  dispatches  to  No. 
36,  Mr.  Pickering  says  that  they  had  been  transmitted  to 
the  President,  who  returned  an  instruction, 

"  To  encourage  you  to  persevere  with  all  the  decision  which 
may  be  consistent  with  decency  and  politeness,  in  denying  the 
right  of  British  Men  of  War,  to  take  from  our  Ships  of  War  any 
men  whatever,  and  from  our  merchant  vessels  any  Americans,  or 
foreigners,  or  even  Englishmen.  There  is  no  principle  by  which 
they  can  justify  taking  by  force,  even  from  an  American  merchant 
vessel,  even  a  deserter  from  their  navy  or  army,  much  less  private 
seamen.  If  they  have  a  right,  we  have  the  same.  I  know  not 
whether  the  exercise  of  it  would  not  be  useful  to  us.  Their  mer- 
chant vessels  are  more  numerous  than  ours,  and  they  have  more 
foreigners,  Swedes,  Italians,  Portuguese,  Spaniards,  Danes,  Dutch, 
&c  than  we."  But  the  President  considers  the  measure  as  desti- 
tute of  principle. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Letters  to  and  from  Dr.  Drury — Sons'  Education — King  to  Lord  Grenville — 
Blockade  of  Dutch  Ports — Suspension  of  Commissioners  under  7th  Article — 
To  Pickering — Silence  about  Situation  of  those  under  6th  Article — Blockade 
of  Dutch  Ports — Detention  in  England  of  Ship  Providence — To  Lord  Gren- 
ville— Blockade  not  effective  and  Detentions  of  Vessels  unjust — To  Secre- 
tary of  State  on  the  Blockade — Always  remonstrates  when  American  Prop- 
erty captured — England  will  not  change  her  Policy  towards  Neutrals — 
Vide- Admiralty  Courts  filled  by  incompetent  Judges — Our  Case  not  pecu- 
liar— Other  Neutrals  suffer  also — Sees  no  Remedy — Recaptures — Impress- 
ment, English  will  not  agree  on  a  Convention — Contraband,  not  able  to 
conclude  an  explanatory  Article — King  to  Secretary  of  State — French  meet 
with  ruinous  Defeats — Jacobin  Revolution  in  Paris — St.  Domingo — To  the 
Same — Treaties  with  Barbary  Powers  should  call  for  Payments  in  Money 
or  Products  of  the  U.  S. — To  Hamilton — Continental  Affairs — King  to  S. 
Bourne — Advises  American  Vessels  should  remain  at  Amsterdam. 

In  a  previous  chapter  it  was  mentioned  that  Mr.  King 
had  placed  his  sons  under  the  charge  of  tutors  and  in  pri- 
mary schools,  their  ages  being  such  that  they  were  too 
young  to  enter  in  either  of  the  great  public  schools  of  Eng- 
land. The  correspondence  between  him  and  the  instructors 
to  whom  he  had  entrusted  them  is  carefully  preserved,  and 
the  boys  are  spoken  of  as  docile,  intelligent,  and  diligent  in 
their  application  to  study.  The  more  probable  continuation 
of  Mr.  King  in  his  office  as  Ambassador,  and  the  advance  of 
the  boys  in  age  and  studies,  led  him  to  examine  the  charac- 
ter of  the  leading  great  schools,  so  that  he  might  place  them 
where  they  might  derive  most  profit  from  their  advanced 
scholarship,  and  from  their  careful,  manly,  and  moral  train- 
ing. As  the  result  of  his  deliberate  investigation,  he  decided 
to  place  them  with  Dr.  Joseph  Drury  at  Harrow  on  the 
Hill,  as  the  following  note  to  him  will  show. 

48 


I799J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  49 


R.  King  to  Rev.  Dr.  Drury,  Harrow. 

June  15,  1799. 
Sir  : 

I  have  concluded  to  send  you  my  two  boys,  one  eleven  and  the 
other  ten  years  old,  if  you  can  receive  them  at  the  end  of  the 
approaching  Holydays.  It  would  be  agreeable  to  me  that  they 
should  make  part  of  your  family  as  soon  as  you  can  give  them 
room  ;  and  it  will  confer  the  greatest  and  most  lasting  benefit 
upon  them  as  well  as  upon  me,  if  they  are  confided  to  a  Tutor, 
who  under  your  direction  and  with  your  assistance  shall  lay  the 
foundation  of  an  Education  upon  which  their  future  condition 
and  character  must  chiefly,  and  I  might  add  solely,  depend. 

I  beg  the  favor  of  your  answer,  and  in  case  you  receive  my 
children,  that  you  will  also  be  so  obliging  as  to  inform  me  when 
the  Holydays  end,  and  to  suggest  any  other  information  upon  the 
subject  that  you  may  think  it  useful  for  me  to  receive. 

With  most  perfect  respect  I  have  the  honor  to  be,  Sir,  yr.  obt. 

&  very  H.ble  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


Joseph  Drury  to  R.  King. 

Harrow,  June  16,  1799. 

Sir: 

I  shall  be  happy  to  receive  your  sons  under  my  care  any  day 
after  the  4th  of  September,  at  which  time  the  School  will  begin  to 
assemble  after  the  vacation  :  every  attention  shall  be  shewn  them 
on  my  part,  and  I  am  confident,  that  the  Gentleman  to  whose 
Tuition  they  are  to  be  intrusted  will  fully  discharge  his  duty 
towards  them.  If  the  Eldest  boy  has  not  yet  learned  the  Prosodia 
in  his  Grammar,  I  coud  wish  him  to  do  it  as  soon  as  possible, 
and  if  he  has  already  been  taught  to  make  Verses,  to  continue 
that  Practice.  This  direction  is  of  less  consequence  to  his 
brother,  who  is  a  year  younger  ;  but  if  he  is  perfect  in  the  other 
Parts  of  his  Grammar,  I  coud  wish  him  also  to  turn  his  thoughts 
to  Prosodia.  The  great  object  to  be  pursued  by  those  of  their 
age,  is  to  be  made  perfect  in  the  rules  of  their  Grammar  and  to 
be  taught  their  use  by  a  constant  application  of  them  to  the  sen- 
tences in  Latin  which  they  render  into  English  ;  and  for  this  Pur- 

VOL.  III. — 4 


50  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

pose  should  define  every  Noun,  conjugate  the  Verbs  and  give 
their  rules  for  dependence  of  one  on  the  other,  but  probably  they 
have  hitherto  been  employed  in  this  way.     .     .     .* 
Your  respectful  and  obedt.  Servt. 

Joseph  Drury. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Gr.  Cumberland  Place,  June  28,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  yr.  Ld.p's  note  of  the  14th  inst. 
in  answer  to  mine  of  the  23d  of  May  respecting  the  American 
Ships  in  the  port  of  Amsterdam,  as  well  as  those  stopped  in  their 
voyages  from  the  Dutch  ports  to  America. 

I  will  not  give  your  Ld.p  the  trouble  of  any  observations  upon 
the  question  whether  the  momentary  absence  of  the  investing 
force  from  the  station  chosen  to  maintain  a  Blockade  amounts  to 
its  discontinuance,  it  being  understood,  in  the  present  instance, 
that  the  investing  fleet  had  actually  returned  into  port,  and  that  a 
few  frigates  only  were  occasionally  employed  as  the  season  wd. 
permit  in  short  cruises  off  the  Texel. 

In  this  situation  of  the  blockading  fleet,  the  Ship  George 
Washington,  the  master  whereof  had  precise  orders  to  proceed  to 
Hamburgh  and  to  avoid  all  blockaded  Ports,  being  unable  to  reach 
the  Port  of  his  destination  bore  away  for  and  arrived  in  the  Texel, 
where  the  cargo  was  discharged  and  a  return  cargo  taken  on 
board  antecedent  to  the  resumption  of  the  effective  Blockade  of 
that  Port. 

I  take  the  liberty  to  send  to  yr.  Ld.p  inclosed  the  Declaration 

*  Mr.  J.  Winter,  from  Oxford  House  School,  writes  on  April  2,  1799,  upon 
notification  that  the  young  gentlemen  would  be  transferred  to  another  school : 

"So  far  as  they  have  advanced  in  their  English,  French  and  Latin,  they 
have  been  well  grounded  and  I  have  made  it  my  study  to  inculcate  into  them 
the  early  seeds  of  Virtue  and  Religion,  which  will  prove  the  best  barrier  against 
future  temptation  and  the  head  strong  passions  of  youth." 

The  same  gentleman,  speaking  of  the  third  son,  James,  on  August  10th 
writes  : 

"  Your  young  gentleman  is  indeed  a  prodigy  in  learning  for  his  years,  nor 
do  I  remember  in  the  course  of  a  quarter  of  a  century  (the  time  my  school  has 
been  established)  to  have  seen  his  equal." 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  5 1 

of  the  Master  of  the  Ship  in  proof  of  this  statement  and  to  renew 
the  request  that  I  may  be  enabled  to  inform  him  that  he  may  pro- 
ceed with  his  Ship  &  Cargo  from  the  Texel  to  the  United  States 
without  interruption  by  his  Majesty's  Cruisers. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c  &c 
R.  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 
{Private.) 

Gr.  Cumberland  Place,  July  5,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  understand  that  the  Commissioners  under  the  7th  article  of 
our  Treaty,  stand  adjourned  to,  and  will  meet  tomorrow.  I 
called  at  your  Lordship's  Door  yesterday  with  the  view  of  saying 
a  word  or  two  upon  this  Business  ;  if  the  Progress  of  the  Com- 
mission must  be  arrested,  I  think  it  of  little  moment  whether  it  is 
done  by  the  tacit  consent  of  our  commissioners,  or  by  an  instruc- 
tion to  yours  not  to  assist  for  the  present  at  the  meetings  of  the 
Board  ;  but  as  I  have  received  no  information  from  Col.  Picker- 
ing upon  this  Subject,  I  am  inclined  to  prefer  the  latter.  I  natter 
myself  from  the  silence  of  Col.  Pickering  that  the  Business  at 
Philadelphia  is  in  a  train  of  accommodation,  &  that  the  suspen- 
sion of  the  Commission  here,  will  therefore  be  of  short  duration. 
With  Sentiments  of  perfect  Respect,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

[Private.) 

July  5,  1799. 

I  am  at  a  loss  to  explain  your  silence  respecting  the  situation 
of  the  Commission  at  Philadelphia.  Mr.  Liston  has  not  been 
communicative,  so  that  we  have  but  little  information  upon  that 
subject.  Here  the  Business  was  in  good  train  and  we  had  a  pros- 
pect of  its  satisfactory  conclusion  ;  but  what  has  passed  at 
Philad.  has  arrested  our  progress  here.  From  your  silence  I  am 
inclined  to  infer  that  some  arrangement  is  forming  by  which  the 
Business  will  go  on.    The  Construction  of  the  English  Commissn. 


52  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

is  abusive  &  will  not  be  supported  nor  insisted  upon  by  their 
Government,  tho'  it  maybe  difficult  in  the  shape  of  negotiation  to 
agree  upon  what  is  or  ought  to  be  the  limits  of  such  engagements. 

I  have  some  reason  to  hope  that  we  shall  not  be  exposed  to  the 
Embarrassment  I  have  apprehended  in  the  affair  that  carried  G. 
M.  to  Philadelphia.     I  will  explain  myself  in  another  letter. 

Our  vessels  stopped  in  their  voyages  from  the  Dutch  ports  to 
the  United  States  are  still  detained  and  waiting  for  their  trials.  I 
am  full  of  concern  on  their  account.  You  really  did  me  no  more 
than  justice  in  the  answer  you  sent  to  the  Letter  from  R.  I. 
respecting  the  Ship  Providence.  I  do,  as  I  always  have  done, 
make  it  an  invariable  rule  to  interfere  with  this  Governt.  in  every 
case  of  the  Detention  of  our  vessels  when  I  have  any  reason  to 
believe  such  interference  will  prove  serviceable  :  tho'  in  almost 
every  instance  the  uniform  answer  is  that  the  Courts  alone  are 
competent  to  examine  and  decide  the  matter  of  Complaint.  I 
have  more  than  once  intended  to  give  you  this  information  in 
order  that  you  might  beforehand  give  the  answer  that  after  all 
will  be  received. 

In  general  our  countrymen  have  understood  and  done  justice 
to  my  interference  on  their  behalf  :  but  there  are  some  men,  and 
I  am  happy  to  say  that  I  have  not  found  them  numerous,  to  whom 
the  most  careful  and  unremitted  attention  to  their  affairs  would 
not  give  satisfaction,  and  who  would  manifest  their  discontent 
chiefly  because  they  did  not  find  countenance  and  support  in  Pre- 
tensions which  could  not,  because  they  ought  not  to,  be  insisted 
upon.  I  shall  send  you  an  exact  account  of  the  case  of  the  Provi- 
dence by  which  you  will  be  able  to  appreciate  the  justice  of  Mr. 
Clark's  complaint. 

The  late  Revolution  at  Paris  will  according  to  present  appear- 
ances increase  the  Energy  and  Exertions  of  the  Govt.  There 
seems  to  have  been  a  pause  in  the  motions  of  the  allies  both  in 
Italy  and  in  Switzerland.  If  the  Austrians  &  Russians  do  not 
soon  compleat  the  Deliverance  of  these  Countries,  I  should  appre- 
hend they  will  in  their  turn  be  compelled  to  act  on  the  defensive. 
The  prospects  of  the  allies  are  still  good,  but  it  will  be  several 
months  before  the  campaign  closes. 

Yrs.  &c, 
R.  King. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  53 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumd.  Place,  July  8,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

The  great  Expense  and  Embarrassments  to  which  the  Proprietors 
are  liable  in  consequence  of  the  Detention  of  their  Ships  &  Car- 
goes, lead  me  to  repeat  the  application  that  in  the  Month  of  May 
I  made  to  yr.  Ld.p  respecting  the  Am.  Ships  Mahala  Windsor, 
Ocean,  Polly,  America  &  Genet.  These  vessels,  together  with 
the  Charlotte  stopped  in  her  voyage  from  America,  are  laden  with 
valuable  Cargoes  shipped  as  and  asserted  to  be  bona  fide  Ameri- 
can Property.  The  oftenerl  consider  the  question,  and  the  more 
I  am  made  acquainted  with  the  facts  relative  to  the  Blockade  of 
the  Texel  during  the  uncommon  severity  of  last  winter,  the 
stronger  is  my  persuasion  that  upon  a  full  and  impartial  view  of 
its  circumstances,  it  will  not  be  thought  just  or  reasonable  to  con- 
sider the  same  to  have  amounted  to  an  investment,  the  non-ob- 
servance whereof  ought  to  be  followed  by  these  forfeitures  which 
are  alone  incurred  by  the  wilful  breach  of  an  Effective  Blockade. 

With  pleasure  I  entertain  the  expectation  that  corresponding 
sentiments  will  be  found  to  exist  and  to  have  their  proper  influ- 
ence in  the  Tribunal  before  which  their  cases  are  to  be  examined  ; 
and  I  take  the  liberty  to  desire  yr.  Ld.sp's  interference  in  order 
that  this  examination  may  be  had  with  the  least  possible  delay  ;  a 
claim,  when  yr.  Ld.p  considers  the  value  of  the  Property,  and  the 
time  it  has  already  been  detained,  that  will  I  hope  appear  to  be 
founded  in  the  principles  of  ordinary  justice,  and  moreover  sup- 
ported by  explicit  engagements  between  the  two  Countries. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c,  &c, 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.    No.  43. 

London  July  15,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Excepting  the  numbers  43  and  58  I  have  received  your  letters 
inclusive  :  the  chief  points  in  your  late  letters  relate  to  the  cap- 
ture of  our  merchant  Ships  and  the  impressment  of  our  Seamen  in 
different  quarters  by  British  cruisers,  to  the  abusive  interpretation 


54  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

of  the  article  of  the  English  Treaty  concerning  Contraband,  and 
to  the  Proclamation  against  our  whale  fishery  issued  by  Admiral 
Pringle  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope. 

Seven  or  eight  of  our  vessels  laden  with  valuable  cargoes  have 
been  lately  captured  and  are  still  detained  for  adjudication.  These 
vessels  were  met  in  their  voyages  to  or  from  the  Dutch  Ports 
declared  to  be  blockaded.  Several  notes  have  passed  between 
Lord  Grenville  and  me  on  this  subject  with  the  view  on  my  part 
of  establishing  a  more  limited  and  reasonable  interpretation  of  the 
Law  of  Blockade,  than  is  attempted  to  be  enforced  by  the  English 
Government.  Nearly  one  hundred  Danish,  Prussian  and  other 
neutral  ships  have  within  a  few  months  been  in  like  manner  in- 
tercepted, going  to  and  returning  from  the  United  Provinces. 
Many  of  them,  as  well  as  some  of  ours,  arrived  in  the  Texel  in  the 
course  of  the  last  winter,  the  severity  of  which  obliged  the  English 
fleet  to  return  to  their  Ports  leaving  a  few  frigates  only  to  make 
short  cruises  off  the  Texel  as  the  season  would  allow. 

My  object  has  been  to  prove  that  in  this  situation  of  the  invest- 
ing fleet  there  could  be  no  effective  Blockade,  which  in  my  opinion 
cannot  be  said  to  exist  without  a  competent  force  stationed  and 
present  at  or  near  the  entrance  of  the  blockaded  port  :  in  oppo- 
sition to  which  it  is  asserted  that  the  momentary  absence  of  the 
blockading  fleet,  however  occasioned,  does  not  amount  to  a  dis- 
continuance of  the  Blockade  ;  a  construction  intended  to  apply 
to  the  situation  of  the  fleet  charged  with  the  Blockade  of  the  Texel 
&  which  will,  I  apprehend,  notwithstanding  the  remonstrances  of 
all  the  neutral  ministers  be  enforced  by  the  Courts  of  Admiralty. 
Immediately  after  the  notification  of  the  Blockade  of  the  Dutch 
ports,  as  a  measure  of  prudence  I  communicated  the  same  to  our 
Minister  in  Holland,  and  since  it  has  appeared  to  be  the  intention 
of  this  Government  to  consider  the  Texel  in  a  state  of  blockade  dur- 
ing the  whole  of  the  last  winter,  I  have  advised  that  two  or  three 
of  our  Ships  which  are  still  at  Amsterdam  should  remain  there  or 
come  out  only  in  Ballast. 

The  Vessels  captured  for  breach  of  Blockade  with  two  ships 
stopped  at  St.  Helena  in  their  voyage  from  Bengal  to  Hamburgh, 
are  the  only  American  Ships  that  for  some  months  past  have  been 
sent  into  the  English  Ports.  I  do  not  include  recaptures,  fre- 
quent instances  of  which  continue  as  heretofore  to  occur.    I  have 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  55 

of  late  heard  of  many  vexatious  captures  in  the  West  Indies  and 
of  one  or  two  on  the  coast  of  Spain  ;  but  I  have  received  no 
particular  information  except  from  you  concerning  any  of  them. 

Altho'  I  have  more  than  once  intimated  to  you  that  I  saw  no 
prospect  of  a  favorable  change  in  the  general  system  of  England 
towards  Neutral  Nations,  I  am  nevertheless  led  from  some  obser- 
vations in  your  last  letters  to  recur  to  that  subject  for  the  pur- 
pose of  adding  a  few  remarks  founded  in  my  experience,  and 
which  the  occasion  seems  to  require.  In  no  instance  do  I  omit 
to  interfere  in  behalf  of  such  of  our  People  whose  Property  has 
been  captured  by  the  English  cruisers,  when  I  have  reason  to  be- 
lieve that  such  interference  will  be  followed  with  the  smallest 
Benefit,  whether  the  case  is  received  immediately  from  the  parties 
or  thro'  your  Department.  These  interpositions,  which  since  my 
residence  here  have  been  numerous,  and  I  wish  I  could  add, 
generally,  advantageous,  have  been  supported  in  my  conference 
with  the  Ministers  by  every  argument  that  suggested  itself  to  me 
as  likely  to  manifest  the  injustice  &  to  shew  the  ill  policy  of  these 
Depredations  upon  our  Trade.  I  have  been  always  heard  & 
answered  with  much  civility,  but  the  Evil  has  continued,  because 
it  grows  out  of  and  is  inherent  in  the  naval  power  of  the  Nation. 
A  discretion  given  to  the  Commanders  of  several  hundred  cruisers 
and  privateers,  with  the  most  upright  and  best  regulated  inten- 
tions would  often  in  its  exercise  be  productive  of  injury  and 
oppression,  and  when  it  is  considered  that  but  few  of  these  com- 
manders belong  to  the  wealthy  classes,  and  for  this  reason  that 
many  of  them  are  more  anxious  to  make  Prizes  than  to  gain  Vic- 
tories, we  at  once  discover  the  chief  source  of  the  abuse  of  which 
we  and  others  have  so  often  and  so  ineffectually  complained. 

The  common  &  technical  answer  is  that  the  Captors  have  vested 
rights,  which  cannot  be  controuled  by  the  Executive  Govt.,  and 
that  the  matter  is  the  subject  of  an  exclusive  cognizance  belong- 
ing to  the  Prize  Tribunals.  This  reply  is  calculated  at  once  to 
put  an  end  to  all  further  interference,  as  it  does  not  consist  with 
decorum  nor  usage,  to  solicit  the  Judges  concerning  the  business 
to  be  brought  before  them. 

I  know  these  Courts  have  the  power  and  that  they  ought  to 
protect  the  rights  of  Neutrals  ;  but  to  do  it  effectually  they  should 
oblige  the  Captors  to  make  ample  compensation  for  the  Loss  & 


$6  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

Damage  of  the  claimants,  not  only  in  cases  manifestly  oppressive, 
but  in  all  others,  in  which  the  Claimant  establishes  his  title  to 
have  pursued  his  voyage  without  interruption.  But  this  is  not 
done,  or  so  rarely  done,  as  to  have  little  or  no  influence  in  con- 
trouling  future  abuses. 

The  number  of  Vice-Admiralty  Courts,  which  from  the  want 
of  adequate  salaries  are  generally  filled  by  incompetent  Judges, 
is  the  occasion  of  many  of  the  irregular  and  vexatious  decisions 
of  which  we  complain. 

The  Judge  of  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty  undoubtedly  pos- 
sesses great  learning  and  distinguished  abilities,  but  he  is  also  a 
member  of  the  King's  Privy  Council,  occupied  in  the  discussion 
of  questions  of  State,  and  consulted  concerning  those  maxims 
that  have  so  far  extended  and  which  are  employed  to  increase  & 
to  preserve  the  dominion  of  England  upon  the  seas,  and  he  can- 
not therefore  avoid  carrying  the  recollection  of  these  views  into 
the  Court,  nor  prevent  their  influence  upon  the  questions  that  are 
there  to  be  decided.  It  is  not  alone  against  the  Decrees  of  the 
subordinate  Courts  that  we  have  reason  to  complain,  but  an  Evil 
nearly  as  great  proceeds  from  the  impediments  which  retard  or 
defeat  a  decision  in  the  Court  of  Appeals  ;  these  Impediments 
are  the  Distance  of  the  inferior  Courts  from  the  Court  of  Appeals, 
their  neglect  &  sometimes  their  Disinclination  to  furnish  Copies 
of  their  Proceedings,  the  accidents  to  which  such  Copies  are  ex- 
posed on  their  way  to  this  Country,  the  Rigour  with  wh.  the  Court 
of  Appeals  refuse  to  receive  appeals  made  after  the  time  limited 
for  that  purpose,  &  the  vast  accumulation  of  cases  to  be  decided 
by  the  Lords  of  Appeal,  all  of  whom  are  members  of  the  King's 
Privy  Council,  and  otherwise  engaged  in  the  Judiciary,  Executive 
and  Legislative  Departments  of  the  Nation,  and  none  of  whom 
for  this  reason  can  bestow  the  requisite  time  or  an  undivided 
attention  upon  the  increasing  catalogue  of  undecided  cases. 

This  is  not  all,  for  after  a  Decree  of  Restoration  is  at  last  ob- 
tained from  the  Court  of  Appeals,  the  intricacy  and  succession  of 
the  process  for  carrying  it  into  effect  are  such  as  to  put  it  in  the 
power  of  the  Captor  to  delay  almost  indefinitely  the  Compensa- 
tion expected  from  the  Decree. 

I  might  add  if  it  would  mitigate  the  case  that  our  situation  is 
neither  peculiar  nor  new  :  the  Swedes,  the  Danes,  the  Prussians 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  57 


and  other  Neutrals  repeat  during  the  present  war  the  same  un- 
availing complaints  which  both  England  and  France  have  been 
accustomed  to  receive  during  every  war  of  the  present  century. 
I  am  able  to  suggest  no  immediate  remedy  :  perhaps  none  can  at 
present  be  devised.  If  our  Treaties  contained  more  precise 
Rules  &  Stipulations  on  the  subject  of  Maritime  Law,  they  might 
have  some  effect  in  lessening  the  Injury  ;  but  it  is  by  no  means 
certain  that  England  will  agree  to  such  Stipulations  as  shall  mate- 
rially affect  or  alter  the  System  she  has  so  long  &  so  successfully 

pursued. 

Recaptures. 

I  have  not  seen  the  Laws  of  the  Last  Session  and  am  therefore 
ignorant  of  the  alterations  that  may  have  been  made  in  the  Law 
concerning  Captures  and  recaptures,  nor  do  I  know  whether  its 
Provisions  extend  to  any  other  than  Cases  of  American  Ships  and 
Property.  Some  time  since  I  took  notice  of  this  subject  in  one 
of  my  Dispatches  to  you,  and  expressed  an  opinion  that  with  re- 
gard to  Foreign  Vessels  and  Property  recaptured  by  our  Ships  of 
war,  the  English,  which  is  the  lowest  rate  of  Salvage,  should  be 
adopted,  and  for  this  reason  that  the  English  will  recapture  more 
of  our  Vessels  than  we  shall  of  theirs,  &  consequently  we  shall 
be  gainers  by  their  rule. 

In  cases  of  the  recapture  of  foreign  Vessels  and  effects  by  the 
English  cruizers  the  Recaptors  are  entitled  to  the  whole  or  only  a 
portion  of  the  Property  according  to  the  usage  of  the  Nation 
to  which  the  recaptured  Ship  or  effects  belonged,  and  when  no 
usage  can  be  ascertained,  the  Salvage  is  regulated  by  the  law 
concerning  the  recapture  of  English  property.  By  a  Resolve  of 
Congress,  passed  I  believe  in  1780,  the  recaptors  of  a  French 
vessel  are  entitled  to  the  whole  of  the  recapture  if  it  had  been 
twenty  four  hours  in  the  enemy's  possession.  I  have  not  exam- 
ined this  Resolve,  nor  do  I  recollect  whether  it  can  be  considered 
as  a  rule  applicable  to  all  cases  of  foreign  property  recaptured  by 
our  Ships  on  the  High  Seas,  or  whether  it  is  confined  to  the  Ships 
of  particular  nations.  It  is  a  point  of  much  consequence  & 
should  be  seasonably  attended  to.  Hitherto  the  English  rule  has 
been  applied  in  cases  of  recaptured  American  Ships,  because  it 
has  been  believed  that  we  had  no  established  usage  on  this 
Point. 


58  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

Seamen. 

In  respect  to  the  Impressment  of  our  Seamen,  they  continue  to 
be  taken  from  our  Merchant  service,  whenever  they  do  not  pos- 
sess certificates  of  Citizenship,  and  sometimes  these  fail  to  afford 
them  that  protection  they  were  issued  to  secure.  There  appears 
to  be  a  real  disposition  to  discharge  our  Seamen  upon  satisfactory 
proof  of  their  citizenship,  provided  they  have  not  voluntarily 
entered  in  the  English  Navy  (the  reciprocity  of  which  exception 
they  however  refuse),  but  the  known  and  habitual  carelessness  of 
Seamen,  the  consequent  hardship  of  obliging  them  to  prove  their 
citizenship,  the  scruples  with  which  their  certificates  are  received, 
the  evidence  upon  which  they  are  discredited,  and  the  many  in- 
stances of  real  Americans  detained  for  want  of  satisfactory  proof 
of  their  citizenship  have  confirmed  me  in  my  first  opinion  of  the 
ill  Policy  of  the  Law  by  which  we  acquiesced  in  this  Certificate 
regulation.  As  you  know  I  have  attempted  again  and  again  but 
without  success  to  convince  this  Governt.  that  both  Justice  and  a 
friendly  Policy  required  of  them  to  agree  with  us  in  a  convention 
upon  this  subject,  that  should  at  the  same  time  give  to  them  as 
well  as  to  us  adequate  and  reasonable  security  in  regard  to  our 
respective  Interests.  Latterly  I  have  ceased  to  urge  it  from  a 
full  persuasion  that  my  exertions  would  be  fruitless  ;  nor  do  I 
believe  that  any  such  agreement  will  ever  be  made  during  a  war, 
tho'  it  may  possibly  be  concluded  in  time  of  Peace. 

It  is  very  generally  known  throughout  the  English  navy,  that 
Major  Lenox  resides  here  for  the  purpose  of  assisting  our  Sea- 
men, from  whom  he  receives  daily  applications  and  thro'  whose 
interference  with  the  Admiralty  many  of  them  are  discharged.  I 
see  no  probability  that  the  office  can  be  discontinued  during  the 
war,  nor  do  I  think  it  can  be  executed  with  more  fidelity  and 
success. 

Contraband. 

I  have  not  yet  been  able  to  conclude  an  explanatory  article 
respecting  Naval  Stores.  As  I  understand  the  present  state  of 
the  negotiation  Lord  Grenville  has  agreed  to  two  of  three  propo- 
sitions that  I  have  submitted  to  him. 

1st.  that  all  Iron  nails  of  less  than  four  inches  long  should  be 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  59 

excepted  from  and  not  deemed  to  be  included  within  the  provi- 
sions of  the  1 8th  Article  of  our  Treaty. 

2d.  that  Oznaburghs,  Ticklenburgs,  Russian  sheetings  and  all 
other  cloth  made  of  flax  or  hemp,  and  not  generally  and  chiefly 
used  for  the  sails  of  Ships,  should  also  be  excepted  from  &  not 
deemed  to  be  included  within  the  Provisions  of  the  Article. 

The  third  proposition  made  since  the  receipt  of  your  last  let- 
ters, that  Iron  in  flat  and  square  bars  should  in  like  manner  be 
excepted,  is  in  a  train  of  Examination  and  will  I  hope  be  acceded 
to.  Other  articles  might  be  added,  but  so  much  time  is  required 
for  consideration  and  so  many  persons  must  be  consulted  that  I 
shall  be  glad  to  conclude  an  Article  containing  these  three  propo- 
sitions. Even  these  have  been  several  months  in  discussion  & 
remain  still  to  be  settled. 

The  copy  of  the  Proclamation  that  you  sent  me,  with  a  verbal 
alteration,  is  genuine.  I  have  laid  it  before  Ld.  Grenville,  who 
has  told  me  that  he  had  taken  measures  to  be  informed  upon  the 
subject  and  hoped  soon  to  be  able  to  confer  with  me  respecting 
it.  I  cannot  tell  beforehand  how  this  complaint  will  be  answered, 
but  since  the  analogous  complaint  of  England  respecting  the 
conduct  and  pretensions  of  Spain  in  the  affair  of  Nootka,  I 
do  not  perceive,  if  they  even  wish  it,  how  they  can  justify  the 
Proclamation. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  44. 

London,  July  15,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  armies  in  Switzerland  have  remained  inactive  for  several 
weeks  :  perhaps  the  Arch  Duke  waits  the  arrival  of  the  large  body 
of  Russians,  that  has  been  for  a  long  time  on  its  march,  and  must 
soon  be  upon  the  Rhine,  if  such  is  its  Destination. 

The  late  actions  in  Italy  which  have  been  so  ruinous  to  the 
French  with  the  surrender  of  the  Citadel  of  Turin  and  other 
strong  Places,  must  in  all  probability  be  followed  by  the  total 
expulsion  of  the  French  armies  from  that  country.  MacDonald 
is  said  to  have  left  his  heavy  Artillery,  Baggage  &  Plunder  with 


60  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

the  small  garrisons  that  remain  in  the  south  of  Italy,  but  these 
must  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  allies,  if  they  are  not  already  taken 
by  the  inhabitants,  who  everywhere  manifest  a  Disposition  to  rise 
and  cooperate  with  the  allies.  We  have  no  satisfactory  account 
of  the  French  fleet  in  the  Mediterranean,  nor  does  it  seem  to  be 
known  whether  they  are  in  Toulon  or  at  sea.  The  English  are 
vastly  superior  in  that  sea  to  the  forces  of  both  France  and  Spain. 

The  prevailing  opinion  has  been  that  the  late  Revolution  at 
Paris  was  effected  by  the  Jacobins,  and  that  it  would  be  the  sig- 
nal for  measures  of  great  and  extensive  energy  :  but  it  is  nearly  a 
month  since  the  change  took  place  and  we  have  yet  seen  no  evi- 
dence that  such  measures  have  been  or  are  likely  to  be  adopted. 
Moreau  has  received  no  reinforcements,  and  the  few  thousand 
troops  sent  to  Massena  had  for  several  months  been  encamped  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Lyons  :  The  interior  of  France  is  much 
agitated  ;  insurrections  prevail  in  some  of  the  Departments, 
and  the  levy  of  taxes  and  recruits  meets  with  open  Resistance. 

Nothing  transpires  concerning  the  object  of  the  expedition 
ostensibly  preparing  in  this  country  ;  the  troops  are  assembling 
at  Southampton,  and  transports  are  collecting  for  their  transpor- 
tation. 

I  find  very  little  in  the  late  French  papers  respecting  America, 
nor  do  I  hear  anything  from  Paris  concerning  the  opinion  of  the 
new  Government.  Perhaps  nothing  can  be  inferred  from  the 
silence  that  seems  to  be  observed  upon  our  affairs ;  but  the  Party 
that  has  overturned  the  Directory,  as  has  formerly  been  the  case 
on  similar  occasions,  are  disposed  to  enumerate  and  publish  the 
faults  of  their  Predecessors.  The  Ex-Directory  are  charged 
among  other  crimes,  with  having  by  their  plans  disaffected  and 
plundered  the  allied  Republicks,  alluding  to  Italy  &  Switzerland  ; 
but  not  a  word  in  reference  to  America  has  escaped  any  member 
of  either  of  the  Councils,  altho'  they  seem  anxious  to  swell  the 
catalogue  of  offences  imputed  to  the  Triumvirs.  Again  all  the 
Ministers  except  Talleyrand  have  been  changed  ;  he  still  remains 
in  place  and  is  supposed  to  be  protected  and  supported  by  both 
Sieyes  &  Barras.  It  is  said  he  will  be  Sieyes'  successor  at  Berlin. 
One  of  the  last  French  papers  states  as  an  article  of  intelligence 
that  all  the  Commissions  granted  to  American  Consuls  in  the  dif- 
ferent French  Ports  were  repealed. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  6 1 


But  I  am  uncertain  whether  this  paragraph  inaccurately  refers 
to  the  act  of  our  own  Government,  or  announces  the  withdrawing 
of  the  Exequaturs  of  our  Consuls  by  the  Directory.  Mount, 
florence  who  was  sent  by  Mr.  Murray  to  receive  the  Papers  of  our 
Consul  General  &  who  was  permitted  by  the  overthrown  Directory 
to  reside  in  Paris  for  that  purpose,  has  been  ordered  to  quit  Paris 
and  the  French  territories  by  their  successors. 

No  intelligence  has  yet  been  received  from  Genl.  Maitland 
since  his  arrival  at  St.  Domingo,  &  no  decision  has  therefore 
taken  place  upon  that  subject.  From  a  conference  that  I  have 
had  with  Mr.  Dundas  (to  whose  Department  whatever  relates  to 
St.  Domingo  belongs)  I  am  led  to  expect  fewer  Difficulties  in  the 
progress  of  that  Business  than  I  had  apprehended  from  the  tenor 
of  my  conference  with  Lord  Grenville.  England  is  in  open  war 
with  France,  she  is  therefore  at  full  liberty  to  concert  measures 
with  Toussaint,  or  with  others  for  the  separation  of  St.  Domingo 
from  the  Dominions  of  France.  A  war  between  us  and  France 
would  in  like  manner  do  away  the  well  founded  scruples  on  this 
subject  that  belong  to  the  relations  of  Peace. 

The  Commission  under  the  7th  Article  of  the  English  Treaty 
stands  suspended,  and  will  remain  so  until  some  means  are 
devised  to  put  in  motion  the  Commission  at  Philada. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  45. 

London,  July  15,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Smith,  our  Minister  at  Lisbon,  informs  me  that  he  is  ap- 
prehensive that  O'Brien  will  be  obliged  to  draw  upon  him  beyond 
the  amount  of  the  funds  in  his  hands,  and  requests  of  me  to  in- 
form him  whether  he  could  borrow  money  in  London.  I  have 
just  answered  that  from  the  Disposition  manifested  heretofore  by 
Baring's  house  I  have  little  doubt  that  they  would  on  my  applica- 
tion pay  the  bills  he  should  draw  on  them  for  the  purpose  of  dis- 
charging his  acceptance  of  O'Brien's  drafts,  and  that  by  the  next 
mail  I  should  probably  be  enabled  to  give  him  more  precise 
information  on  this  point.     Mr.  Smith  at  the  same  time  sent  me 


62  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

Extracts  of  several  of  O'Brien's  Letters,  stating  that  the  Dey  of 
Algiers  &  his  Ministers  had  requested  him  to  write  to  Mr.  Smith 
to  procure  for  them  from  England  twenty  24  Pounders  (Brass),  a 
Sextant,  some  mathematical  instruments,  charts  and  other  articles 
of  which  they  made  out  a  list  ;  the  guns  to  be  paid  for  by  the  Al- 
gerine  Govt,  when  they  are  delivered.  I  have  taken  the  liberty 
to  give  my  opinion  to  Mr.  Smith  that  this  request  should  by  no 
means  be  gratified. 

When  we  have  once  concluded  a  Peace  with  the  Barbary 
Powers,  which  in  my  judgment  should  be  purchased  with  money 
or  the  Productions  of  our  own  country,  we  ought  to  avail  our- 
selves of  the  circumstances  of  our  great  distance  and  of  our  being 
ourselves  obliged  to  purchase  in  foreign  Countries  the  articles 
that  the  Barbary  Powers  might  otherwise  ask  of  us,  to  avoid  their 
capricious  &  irregular  Demands.  It  would  be  natural,  as  I  have 
intimated  to  Mr.  Smith,  for  O'Brien  to  say  that  we  make  no  brass 
in  America  ;  that  neither  brass  Cannon,  nor  Sextants,  nor  charts, 
nor  any  other  of  the  articles  required  can  be  purchased  there  ; 
that  we  have  no^agent  in  England  authorized,  or  who  has  funds 
to  make  such  Purchases  ;  that  England  does  not  allow  the  Ex- 
portation of  Copper,  or  Brass,  or  any  military  or  naval  stores, 
being  herself  obliged  to  purchase  these  articles,  to  carry  on  the 
war  against  France. 

If  we  yield  to  the  Execution  of  an  order  of  this  kind,  we  estab- 
lish a  Precedent  that  it  will  be  difficult  to  get  rid  of,  and  our  Con- 
sul will  be  engaged  in  perpetual  and  expensive  Brokerage  for  the 
Dey  &  his  Ministers.  How  far  we  have  already  gone  in  this 
course  I  do  not  know  ;  if  we  have  begun,  the  sooner  we  stop  the 
better  ;  and  if  we  have  not  begun,  I  am  confident  that  we  ought 

not  to. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Wm.  Smith,  Esq.,  Lisbon. 

London,  15th  July,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

(This  letter  is  nearly  verbatim  the  same  as  the  above,  and 
concludes)  : 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  63 


I  make  these  observations  for  your  consideration,  remarking  at 
the  same  time  that  as  this  Business  is  confided  to  you  &  not  to 
me,  and  as  your  particular  knowledge  of  our  Barbary  affairs,  as 
well  as  of  the  views  of  our  Govt,  concerning  them,  enable  you  to 
form  a  better  opinion  respecting  them  than  I  can,  I  shall  notwith- 
standing my  objections  against  the  measure,  do  whatever  shall  be 
in  my  power  to  execute  any  order  upon  this  subject  that  you  shall 

send  me. 

With  sincere  Regard  &  Attachment  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


King  to  Hamilton.* 

London,  July  15th,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  French  still  maintain  themselves  in  Switzerland,  and 
though  unless  soon  and  strongly  reinforced,  they  will  be  driven 
out  of  it.  The  success  of  the  allies  has  been  almost  uninterrupted 
in  Italy,  from  whence,  according  to  present  appearances,  the 
enemy  must  in  a  short  time  be  totally  expelled.  Thus  far,  the 
coalition  has  performed  prodigies  ;  but  the  confederates  are  not 
without  mutual  jealousies,  which  will  increase  with  their  success, 
and  which  already  has  had  the  effect  of  preventing  an  agreement 
upon  a  precise  and  ultimate  object.  Between  England  and  Russia 
the  greatest  union  and  confidence  exist  ;  and  these  powers  do  not 
disagree  in  what  ought  to  be  the  end  aimed  at  and  avowed.  An 
uncommon  coldness,  and  even  more  than  coldness,  exists  between 
Austria  and  England  ;  and  between  the  former  and  Russia  there 
is  less  cordiality  than  could  be  wished  and  expected.  The  issue 
of  the  campaign,  for  these  reasons,  is  less  certain  than  it  would  be 
were  the  allies  heartily  and  disinterestedly  engaged  in  the  only 
species  of  war  that  can  give  peace  and  security  to  the  different 
nations  of  Europe. 

It  is  extremely  difficult  yet  to  understand  the  late  changes  in 
Paris.  There  are  persons  who  see  in  them  the  death  blow  to 
French  republicanism.  I  doubt  very  much  this  opinion,  and  am 
inclined  to  consider  the  last  in  the  same  light  as  I  have  done  the 
former  revolutions.     I  did  expect  that  the  changes  would  be  fol- 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  410. 


64  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

lowed  by  measures  of  more  energy  than  have  been  adopted. 
There  seems  to  be  no  reason  to  suppose  that  we  are  likely  to  be 
benefitted  by  the  revolution.  Sieyes'  opinions  concerning  America 
are  no  secret,  and  they  give  us  no  room  to  expect  a  treatment 
different  from  that  we  have  so  long  and  patiently  endured.    .    .    . 


R.  King  to  Sylvanus  Bourne,  Consul,  Amsterdam. 

London,  July  16,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  an  answer  to  my  application  concerning  the 
George  Washington  and  the  other  American  Vessels  at  Amster- 
dam. After  considering  the  Papers  which  disclose  the  circum- 
stances in  which  the  George  Washington  entered  the  Texel,  this 
Government  declines  to  give  any  assurance  that  this  vessel  with 
her  Cargo  may  without  interruption  pursue  her  voyage  back  to 
the  U.  S.  ;  the  inference  is  that  the  English  Cruisers  will  capture 
the  vessels  remaining  in  the  Texel,  in  case  they  leave  that  Port. 

My  advice  is  that  they  remain  where  they  are,  or  come  out  only 
in  Ballast.  We  are  ascertained  that  they  will  be  taken  if  they 
come  out  with  Cargoes,  and  I  am  afraid  that  they  will  not  escape 
even  in  Ballast  ;  but  I  think  the  risque  of  capture  and  even  of 
condemnation  is  less  if  they  are  without  Cargoes. 

With  great  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  V. 

King  to  Pickering — Smith's  Mission  to  Constantinople  delayed — Expedition  to 
Holland — Revolution  in  Paris  Jacobinical — To  Sir  J.  Nichol — Trade  be- 
tween Surinam  and  Holland — Sedgwick  to  King — President's  Course  rela- 
tive to  France  disapproved — Genl.  Marshall's  Election  will  give  Tone  to 
federal  Politics  South — Delay  in  raising  the  Army — Death  of  Govr.  Sum- 
ner— Western  New  York  prosperous — People  happy — Massachusetts'  Af- 
fairs— King  to  Secretary  of  State — Talleyrand's  Resignation — Danes  and 
Swedes  exclude  Privateers  from  their  Ports — Consul  from  Denmark — 
Bonaparte's  Retreat  from  Acre — King  to  E.  Nepean — Claim  for  Indem- 
nity for  a  Broadside  fired  into  an  American  Ship — To  Lord  Grenville,  com- 
plaining of  Conduct  of  Govr.  of  St.  Helena — Contraband  of  War  in  West 
Indies — Piracy  of  Crew  of  American  Brig  Nancy — Vessels  illegally  con- 
demned in  Jamaica — To  Wm.  Fawkner — Asks  Permission  to  export  Cop- 
per— King's  Remonstrances  against  British  Acts. 

R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

{Private.) 

July  16,  1799. 

Dr.  Sir  : 

Mr.  Smith  tells  me  that  you  had  given  your  consent  that  your 
Son  should  accompany  him  to  Constantinople,  and,  as  the  state  of 
things  which  is  understood  to  have  recommended  a  suspension  of 
the  mission  is  again  changed,  the  mission  may  be  resumed  :  hence 
your  Son  appears  undecided  respecting  his  visit  to  this  Country. 
In  a  late  letter  from  Mr.  Smith  he  expresses  an  inclination  to 
come  here  himself  during  some  part  of  the  next  winter  with  the  view 
of  gaining  information  and  making  the  requisite  Preparation  for 
the  Treaty.  If  nothing  more  important  shall  detain  him  at  Lis- 
bon, which  is  not  likely  to  be  the  case,  I  should  think  his  visit 
here  would  be  of  considerable  advantage. 

Lord  Elgin  will  embark  in  a  few  days  ;  he  goes  on  an  Extraor- 
dinary Embassy,  and  will  therefore  probably  have  left  Constanti- 

VOL.   III. — 5 

65 


66  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

nople  before  Mr.  Smith's  arrival.  Perhaps  we  shall  lose  little  by 
the  Delay.  Nothing  can  be  done  at  the  Porte  without  the  appro- 
bation of  the  Grand  Vizier,  who  as  we  hear  has  gone  with  an 
army  into  Syria  and  is  ordered  to  deliver  that  country  as  well  as 
Egypt  from  the  Pollutions  of  the  French.  When  the  Vizier  is 
absent  it  is,  as  I  am  informed,  customary  for  Foreign  Ministers 
residing  at  the  Porte  to  keep  agents  in  the  Camp  of  the  Vizier  for 
the  transaction  of  any  Business  requiring  his  approbation.  This 
with  the  necessary  Couriers  would  be  attended  with  great  Ex- 
pense, &  we  should  find  it  a  most  inconvenient  way  of  negotiating 
a  Treaty. 

In  one  of  my  public  Letters  I  have  made  a  remark  or  two  con- 
cerning the  office  of  Maj.  Lenox  ;  but  I  will  add  a  word  here  in 
answer  to  your  letter  upon  that  subject.  I  think  the  office  as 
necessary,  indeed  more  so  than  when  it  was  first  instituted.  The 
Consul  is  otherwise  employed  and  cannot  bestow  the  requisite 
personal  attention  to  the  Protection  of  our  Seamen.  The  busi- 
ness requires  the  constant  care  of  a  discreet  and  methodical 
officer,  whose  personal  credit  and  interference  are  often  more 
useful  than  the  customary  &  written  applications.  It  is  due  to 
Maj.  Lenox  to  say  that  no  one  can  discharge  these  Duties  with 
more  intelligence,  regularity  and  success  than  he  does.  With 
regard  to  his  Salary  I  can  only  say  that  it  is  manifestly  too  small. 

With  sincere  Regards  &c 

R.  King. 

R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

(Private?) 

London,  July  20,  1799. 

The  detention  of  the  Packet  gave  me  the  opportunity  of  adding 
a  word  or  two  to  my  late  letters.  We  have  Paris  Papers  to  the 
15th.  They  confirm  the  accounts  received  by  Hamburgh  of  the 
critical  situation  of  Moreau  and  MacDonald  in  Italy.  The  alter- 
native seems  to  be  a  speedy  retreat  into  France  from  the  Genoese 
Territory,  or  a  surrender  to  the  allies  after  a  fruitless  and  obsti- 
nate struggle.  Nothing  new  has  lately  occurred  upon  the  Rhine 
or  in  Switzerland. 

The  Expedition  going  from  this  country  is  in  great  forwardness. 
We  are  told  that  its  object  is  certainly  Holland  ;  or  that  a  Corps 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  6? 

of  Russians  and  another  of  Swedes,  to  be  landed  at  Lubeck,  are 
to  cooperate  ;  as  these  are  rumours  which  on  such  occasions  are 
busily  circulated,  we  cannot  place  much  Reliance  upon  their 
accuracy  ;  that  England  will  act  in  concert  with  some  other 
power,  if  Holland  is  the  object,  I  am  disposed  to  believe  ;  and 
several  circumstances  render  it  probable  that  some  other  Powers 
are  disposed  to  give  their  assistance.  If  Russia  wd.  act  with  de- 
cision, the  Business  would  be  finished  this  Campaign  ;  no  confi- 
dence is  entertained  that  this  Event  is  likely  to  take  place. 

There  can  be  no  longer  a  doubt  of  the  character  of  the  late 
change  at  Paris,  which  has  been  purely  Jacobinical  :  the  Clubs  are 
again  opened,  and  the  Jacobins  are  everywhere  active  to  electrify 
the  People.  The  junction  of  the  French  and  Spanish  fleets  at 
Carthagena  may  possibly  enable  them,  notwithstanding  the  superi- 
ority of  the  English,  to  return  to  Cadiz  or  even  to  Brest,  from 
whence  they  would  threaten  and  alarm  both  England  &  Ireland. 

Lord  St.  Vincent's  ill  health  has  obliged  him  to  give  the  com- 
mand of  the  fleet  to  Keith — an  event  much  regretted,  as  the 
former  enjoys,  and  deservedly,  the  greatest  consideration. 

We  have  just  heard  of  the  death  of  P.  Henry — will  a  successor 
be  named  ?  I  answer  yes  !  !  !  is  the  present  a  suitable  moment 
for  negotiation  ?  and  with  what  consistency  can  it  be  pursued  at 
the  same  time  that  Stevens  is  executing  his  orders  at  St.  Domingo  ? 

Yrs.  with  great  truth 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Sir  Jno.  Nichol. 

(Private.) 

Gt.  Cumbd.  Place,  22  July,  1799. 
Dr.  Sir  : 

Will  you  give  me  leave  to  request  of  you  to  read  the  enclosed 
Paper  delivered  to  me  this  morning  by  Capt.  Robinson,  master  & 
owner  of  the  American  Ship  Eliza  &  Cargo.  You  will  at  once 
perceive  that  entertaining  the  opinion  I  do  respecting  the  legality 
of  the  neutral  trade  carried  on  between  Surinam  &  Holland,  I 
cannot  make  an  official  application  to  your  Govt,  for  the  purpose 
of  attaining  the  end  aimed  at  in  this  paper  ;  because  this  would 
be  tacitly  to  relinquish  a  principle  that  I  think  to  be  founded  in 


68  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

Justice.  Still  the  ruin  that  must  follow  an  adverse  Decision  in 
the  ordinary  terms  of  the  Sentence,  and  the  very  great  Distress 
in  which  I  see  Capt.  Robinson,  whom  for  many  years  I  have  known 
and  esteemed  as  an  honest,  industrious  and  worthy  man,  lead  me 
to  ask  your  consideration  whether  in  the  event  of  an  adverse  Sen_ 
tence  in  the  Court  of  Appeals  (wh.  I  continue  to  hope  will  not  take 
place)  it  will  not  be  practicable  to  draw  up  the  Sentence,  if  the  facts 
will  warrant  it,  in  a  manner  that  shall  preclude  the  Underwriters 
from  making  use  of  it  to  defeat  the  Demand  of  the  assured. 

I  entreat  your  indulgence  in  favor  of  this  application  from  the 
regard  due  to  the  motives  which  alone  have  produced  it,  and  with 
sentiments  of  sincere  respect  and  esteem,  have  the  honor  to  be 
&c  &c.  R.  King. 


T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Stockbridge,  26th  July,  1799. 

Dear  Sir —  .  .  .  Immediately  before  I  left  Philadelphia 
in  March,  if  I  recollect  the  time,  I  gave  you  a  particular  history 
of  the  disgusting  message,  announcing  "  the  plausible  appearance 
of  probability  "  of  a  pacific  temper  on  the  part  of  the  french 
government.  Nothing  could  have  been  more  mischievous  in  its 
tendency,  but  it  has  not,  very  extensively,  had  the  effect  you 
feared  to  divide  the  subordinate  friends  of  the  government.  Senti- 
ment and  opinion,  among  them,  is  perfectly  unanimous.  I  have 
never  conversed  with  an  individual,  on  the  subject,  who  did  not, 
unequivocally,   reprobate   the   measure.     In    another    view   the 

measure  has  produced  very  pernicious  effects.     The  P 1  by  a 

fortunate  concurrence  of  circumstances  had  obtained  an  elevation, 
which,  certainly,  his  friends  did  not  expect.  The  principal  cause 
of  this  was  a  supposed  just  appreciation  of  the  conduct  of  france 
toward  our  country,  a  strong  resentment  of  our  wrongs  and  a 
dignified  firmness  in  supporting  our  honor  and  steadily  adhering 
to  that  system,  such  as  it  is,  which  had  been  adopted  by  the 
friends  of  Government.  The  foundation  on  which  confidence 
rested  has  been,  by  this  strange  measure,  destroyed,  and  the  con- 
sequences are  disagreeable  and  may  be  more  so.  I  do  not 
undertake  even  to  conjecture  their  nature  or  extent,  but  it  is  im- 
possible to  reoccupy  the  ground  which  has  been  lost. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  69 


The  events  of  the  next  congressional  campaign,  it  is  impossible 
to  foretell.  They  may,  and  probably  will,  be  influenced  by  those 
of  the  military  campaign  in  Europe.  They  must,  however,  be 
conformed  to  the  character  of  the  federal  majority  of  the  house 
of  representatives.  The  result  of  the  election  has,  on  the  whole, 
been  as  favorable  as  could  have  been  expected.  The  federal 
majority  is  very  large — We  have  heretofore  experienced  that 
there  were  shades  of  federalism,  and  we  know  that  there  are 
infinite  degrees  as  well  of  firmness  of  nerve,  as  of  mental  com- 
prehension. It  is  not  enough  to  ensure  success  to  right 
measures  that  a  majority  of  the  members  approve,  generally,  the 
conduct  of  the  administration.  These  considerations  were  never 
more  important  than  at  the  present  moment. 

The  opinions  I  have  entertained  of  the  course  of  conduct,  which 
it  would  have  been  and  is  wise  and  prudent  to  pursue  in  the 
critical  &  delicate  state  of  our  affairs  are  greatly  strengthened  by 
your  approbation  of  them.  Hitherto  they  have  not  been 
approved  by  a  majority.  Their  ultimate  prevalence  will,  proba- 
bly, depend  considerably,  perhaps  altogether,  on  individuals. 
General  Marshall  you  know  is  a  member  of  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives. His  talents,  his  character  and  the  situation  he  has 
been  in,  will  combine  to  give  him  an  influence,  which  will  be 
further  aided  by  the  scene  which  he  immediately  represents.  He 
may  and  probably  will  give  a  tone  to  the  federal  politics  South  of 
the  Susquehannah.  I  well  know  the  respect  he  entertains  for  you 
and  for  your  opinions.  I  have  brought  this  subject  to  your  mind 
that  you  may  decide  on  the  propriety  of  a  communication  of 
your  sentiments  to  him,  which  you  may  do  in  season  to  be  useful. 
Should  he,  which,  indeed,  I  do  not  expect,  conform  his  political 
conduct  generally,  to  what  seems  indicated  by  his  public  declara- 
tion relative  to  the  alien  &  sedition  acts,  it  would  have  been 
better  that  his  insignificant  predecessor  should  have  been  re- 
elected. There  never  has  been  an  instance  where  the  commence- 
ment of  a  political  career  was  so  important  as  is  that  of  General 
Marshall. 

The  delay  in  raising  the  army,  for  which  provision  was  absolutely 
made  the  session  before  last,  has  been  shameful  and  almost 
unpardonable.  Whether  this  is  attributable  to  the  Secretary 
alone  or  ought  to  be  shared  between  him  and  his  Principal  I  am 


70  RUFUS  KING.  .  [1799 

not  positive,  but  believe  the  latter.  What  makes  this  conduct  the 
more  unaccountable  is  a  comparison  of  it  with  another  executive 
measure. 

The  considerations  which  induced  the  provision  to  raise  abso- 
lutely the  small  force  of  12  regiments  were  indispensable  and  are 
obvious, — they  were  such  as  admitted  not  of  delay  in  the  execu- 
tion. Yet  the  recruiting  service  is  hardly  begun  under  it — I  have, 
however,  much  pleasure  in  hearing  that  it  is  generally  successful, 
as  far  as  I  have  had  any  information.  At  the  last  session,  [a 
similar  one  of  the  preceding  session,  having  expired,]  an  act  was 
passed  giving  eventual  authority  to  the  President  to  augment  the 
Army.  This  authority  was  to  be  exercised  only  "  in  case  a  war 
should  break  out  between  the  U.  S.  and  a  foreign  european  power, 
or  in  case  of  imminent  danger  of  invasion."  Before  the  recruit- 
ing service  was  begun  to  raise  the  12  regiments  &  even  before  the 
officers  in  this  neighborhood  had  received  their  commissions,  a 
resolution  was  taken  and  published  to  appoint  the  officers  of  the 
eventual  army.  When  I  saw  this,  and  was  requested  to  make  a 
nomination  of  officers,  I  took  the  liberty  of  remonstrating  against 
the  measure  &  I  have  since  received  from  the  Secy,  at  war  an  at- 
tempt to  vindicate  the  measure — It  is  a  feeble  one — I  have,  also, 
received  the  most  certain  evidence  that  the  Secy,  of  state  and  of 
the  treasury  were  not  consulted  at  all  on  the  subject.  You  will 
see  from  all  this,  my  dear  sir,  that  our  situation  is  not  a  pleasant 
one.  It  is  now  about  seven  weeks  since  I  wrote  on  the  subject 
and  I  have  not  heard  whether  the  business  is  progressing  or  has 
been  abandoned. 

It  was  with  infinite  reluctance  that  I  agreed  to  go  into  the  House 
of  Representatives  and  I  shall  find  my  situation  there  painful 
beyond  expression,  if  the  federalists  can  not  be  brought  to  act 
homogeneously.  I  shall  attend  at  the  commencement  of  the 
session  &  hope  that  I  shall  not  be  subjected  to  the  chagrin  I  have 
endured  the  three  last  sessions.  I  never  liked  half  measures,  and 
at  present  I  think  them  disgraceful  and  dangerous — In  point  of 
reputation  I  wish  not  to  appear  as  approving  measures  which  to- 
my  mind  are  obviously  feeble  &  unmanly.  Hitherto  I  have  per- 
mitted myself  to  be  carried  unresistingly  down  the  current,  be- 
cause it  has  been  thought  imprudent  to  exhibit  a  difference  of 
opinion  among  the  federalists.     But  we  have  assumed  an  awkward 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  Jl 


attitude  which  cannot,  I  believe,  be  long  maintained.  Our  sta- 
tion is  indefensible  ;  for  admitting  the  justness  of  assuming  it, 
it  follows  irresistibly  that  we  ought  to  have  ascended  much 
higher. 

The  death  of  Governor  Sumner  is  a  deplorable  event.  It  will 
be  difficult  if  not  impossible  to  obtain  a  successor  in  all  respects 
his  equal.  Great  talents  aren't  indispensable,  but  those  which 
are  so,  he  possessed,  in  an  eminent  degree.  As  he  died  during 
the  session  of  the  legislature,  the  federal  members  ought  instantly 
to  have  fixed  on  a  candidate,  to  have  given  to  the  public  an  object 
to  rest  upon.  At  present  there  are  not  less  than  a  dozen  men  who 
have  their  particular  friends  who  appear  attached  to  them,  &  I 
fear  a  division  of  good  men  which  cannot  easily  be  reconciled. 
Nothing  now  can  be  ultimately  determined  on,  untill  a  meeting 
of  the  Legislature,  which  does  not  take  place  untill  January. 

I  have  never  been  more  pleased  with  an  excursion  than  the  one 
I  lately  made  into  the  western  part  of  the  state  of  New  York — I 
went  about  140  miles  to  the  west  of  the  settlements  on  the  Mo- 
hawk— the  face  of  the  country  is  delightful  and  the  crops  exceed 
any  thing  I  have  ever  before  seen  ;  but  what  is  infinitely  more 
agreeable,  the  people  every  where  are  contented  &  happy  &  well 
disposed  to  support  the  measures  of  the  Government,  except  in 
that  part  of  the  country  called  the  military  tract  where  there  is 
great  uncertainty  as  to  the  titles  of  the  Lands  &  the  settlers  com- 
posed, generally,  of  a  character  different  from  the  rest. — Drawing 
a  meridian  line  thro'  Schenectady  and  longitudinal  one  at  the 
confluence  of  the  Mohawk  and  Hudson,  I  have  not  the  smallest 
doubt  that  west  of  the  former  &  north  of  the  latter,  the  emigrants, 
within  the  last  12  years,  settled  in  the  state  of  New  York,  are 
more  than  120000  souls. 

By  any  thing  you  saw  before  you  left  the  Country  you  can  form 
no  idea  of  the  degree  of  malignity  of  our  Jacobins.  Their  indus- 
try is  equal  to  their  malignity.  In  this  County  this  is  eminently 
the  case.  During  the  administration  of  Adams,  (S.)  it  unfortu- 
nately happened,  that  he  had  the  appointment  of  all  the  Judges 
of  our  common  pleas,  the  Sheriff,  the  Judge  &  the  Register  of 
Probate,  and  all,  except  one,  are  antifederal.  Their  influence, 
from  their  official  relations  and  their  standing  in  other  respects, 
and  the  decency  of  their  conduct,  is  considerable  but  is  not  & 


*] 2  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

probably  will  not  be  prevalent.  It  is,  however,  such  as  to  require 
vigilance  and  exertion  among  the  enlightened  &  well  disposed. 
This  is  an  instance,  among  many  others,  which  shews  the  import- 
ance that  the  executive  should  be  lodged  in  pure  hands. 

The  wonderful  successes  of  the  Allies  in  Europe  were  not  ex- 
pected here.  It  is  evident  that  the  Directory  trembles  as  well 
from  the  risque  they  have  run  by  sending  their  last  maritime  force 
into  the  mediterranean,  as  the  infinite  pains  they  take  to  impress, 
on  their  miserably  enslaved  subjects,  a  belief  of  an  incredible  fact 
— that  the  french  ministers  were  assassinated  by  the  orders  of  the 
Austrian  Government.  If  they  cannot  rekindle  the  spirit  of  en- 
thusiasts, which  at  present  seems  extinct,  it  seems  probable  that 
in  the  present  campaign,  a  serious  impression,  if  nothing  more, 
will  be  made  upon  them.  In  alliance  every  faculty  ought  to  be 
exerted  in  the  onset,  because  a  cordial  cooperation  for  any  length 
of  time,  cannot,  reasonably,  be  expected.  I  dread  the  common 
effects  of  disunion  and  jealousy,  and  I  most  sincerely  hope  they 
may,  in  the  present  instance,  be  prevented  or  at  least  delayed, 
until  the  enemy  shall  have  become  more  impotent  than  at 
present. 

I  have  mentioned  the  conduct  of  the  English  commissioners  on 
the  sixth  article  of  the  late  treaty — Since  that  I  have  heard  nothing 
on  the  subject.  It  would  be  unfortunate  should  any  occurrence 
take  place  to  interrupt  the  existing  harmony  between  the  two 
countries  :  and  ought  if  possible  to  be  prevented.  The  reason 
why  I  have  mentioned  this  subject  must  be  obvious  to  you. 

I  pray  you,  my  dear  sir,  to  write  me  as  frequently  as  you  can 
with  convenience.     There  never  was  a  time  when  communications 
were  so  ardently  desired  &  so  grateful.     .     .     . 
I  am  ever  sincerely  your  friend. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  46. 

London,  July  30,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Talleyrand  having  been  denounced  by  the  Clubs  and  in  the 

Journals,  has  been  obliged  to  give  in  his  resignation,  which,  as  we 

hear,  has  been  accepted  ;  he  has  also  published  his  Vindication 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  73 

in  which  he  repels  among  other  charges  that  of  having  alienated 
the  United  States  from  the  Republic,  by  asserting  that  it  has  been 
in  consequence  of  a  language  full  of  deference  and  moderation, 
as  well  as  of  dignity,  addressed  by  him  to  the  U.  S.,  instead  of 
expressions  severe  and  irritating,  desired  by  his  accusers,  that 
American  Negotiators  have  arrived  in  France.  The  Denunciation 
and  Apology  are  unworthy  of  notice  except  so  far  as  they  may  be 
considered  evidence  of  an  opinion  that  a  declared  war  with  us 
would  not  be  profitable  ;  a  Criterion  however  immoral,  which  the 
Denunciation  and  apology  of  the  same  parties  for  not  sending 
an  Expedition  against  Portugal,  as  well  as  the  encreased  activity 
of  the  Privateers,  prove  still  to  be  the  Standard  of  French  Policy. 

We  have  rumours  of  a  Naval  Battle  between  the  English  and 
combined  fleets  in  the  Mediterranean  ;  but  are  without  any  infor- 
mation from  that  quarter  since  the  8th  instant,  the  date  of  the 
last  advices  from  Gibraltar. 

Three  or  four  Frigates  from  Syria  fell  into  the  hands  of  the 
English  Squadron  on  the  Coast  of  Genoa  about  the  middle  of 
June  ;  by  these  Ships  the  Reports  from  Constantinople  of  the  re- 
treat of  Buonaparte  from  Acre  are  confirmed  and  according  to  the 
latest  intelligence  from  that  quarter,  the  fate  of  this  celebrated 
Soldier  cannot  be  long  deferred. 

The  Danish  and  Swedish  Envoys  here  have  delivered  a  joint 
note  to  this  Government,  communicating  a  recent  Regulation, 
adopted  by  their  respective  Nations,  by  which  the  Privateers  of  all 
Nations  are  excluded  from  the  Danish  and  Swedish  Ports,  and 
the  sale  of  Prizes  prohibited  under  the  penalty  of  being  seized 
and  restored  to  the  original  Owners.  I  am  promised  a  copy  of 
the  Note  which  I  shall  send  to  you.  Since  the  date  of  my  last, 
the  Danish  Envoy,  by  order  of  his  Court,  wrote  me  a  letter  an- 
nouncing the  King's  intention  to  name  a  consul  to  reside  in  the 
U.  S.  I  replied  that  I  would  immediately  communicate  the  inti- 
mation to  my  Government,  and  that  I  could  beforehand,  without 
any  reserve,  express  my  personal  conviction  that  the  Consul  pro- 
posed to  be  sent  to  us,  would  be  received  in  a  manner  that  would 
not  fail  to  be  satisfactory  ;  it  will  be  expected  that  you  will  author- 
ise me  to  renew  this  assurance  in  the  name  of  the  President, 
should  he  approve  of  it. 

Nothing  has  occurred  in  Italy  since  the  bloody  Battles  upon  the 


74  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 


Trevia  ;  35,000  of  the  45,000  Russians  in  the  pay  of  England  are 
to  join  the  Arch  Duke  in  Switzerland,  and  the  other  10,000  to  be 
sent  to  Suwarrow. 

The  English  Expedition  is  in  great  forwardness,  if  we  credit 
the  reports  which  are  published  with  uncommon  and  somewhat 
suspicious  zeal  ;  the  marches  of  the  Troops  increase  the  proba- 
bility that  Holland  is  the  object. 

General  Maitland  has  arrived  from  the  West  Indies  ;  I  have 
not  yet  seen  him,  nor  have  I  received  any  authentic  information 
of  his  Report  to  the  Government. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Evan  Nepean,  Esq. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  July  31,  1799. 
Sir  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  send  you  enclosed  the  copy  of  a  letter, 
with  sundry  Papers,  that  I  have  lately  received  from  Col.  Picker- 
ing, Secretary  of  the  State  of  the  U.  S.,  respecting  the  damage 
sustained  by  the  American  ship  Aurora  from  a  Broadside  fired 
into  her  by  his  Majesty's  Ship  of  War  Latona.  Some  of  these 
Papers  were  formerly  before  me,  and  I  advised  the  agent  of  the 
owners  of  the  Aurora  to  institute  a  suit  against  Capt.  Southern  ; 
but  as  doubts  are  entertained  whether  under  the  circumstances  of 
the  case  such  suit  can  be  supported,  and  as  no  suit  can  be  insti- 
tuted against  the  King  as  against  a  private  owner,  I  request  you 
to  submit  this  claim  for  indemnification,  which  appears  to  me  to 
be  in  all  respects  just,  to  the  consideration  of  the  Lords  Commis- 
sioners of  the  Admiralty  ;  observing  only  that  in  a  case  not 
altogether  dissimilar  in  its  circumstances  and  the  same  in  the 
Principles  by  which  it  was  decided,  the  American  Government 
lately  paid  to  the  British  Claimant  &  Sufferer  a  sum  more  than 
double  to  that  claimed  in  the  present  instance.  The  case  alluded 
to  is  that  of  the  British  Letter  of  Mark  Niger,  captured  by  an 
American  Frigate.  A  judicial  remedy  is  impracticable,  and  un- 
less the  Government  indemnify  the  owners,  their  claim  will 
entirely  fail. 

With  very  great  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1799.1  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  75 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Aug.  1,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

In  consequence  of  the  loss  and  expence  arising  from  the  deten- 
tion of  the  American  Ships  Iphigenia,  Martin  Master,  &  Kensing- 
ton, Kerr  Master,  I  take  the  liberty  to  recall  to  your  Lordship's 
recollection  my  note  of  the  19th  of  February  last,  complaining  of 
the  conduct  of  the  Governor  of  St.  Helena  in  detaining  them. 

I  persuade  myself  to  believe  that  your  Lordship  will  upon  a 
simple  view  of  these  cases,  see  and  be  disposed  to  interfere  for 
the  purpose  of  removing  the  hardships  to  which  their  owners  are 
exposed  by  not  being  able  to  obtain  a  Trial. 

I  at  the  same  time  take  the  liberty  to  renew  my  application  of 
the  20th  ultimo,  respecting  the  capture  and  detention  of  the 
American  Ship  Acteon,  Wilson  Master  ;  as  this  vessel  is  laden 
with  Muskets  purchased  for  the  United  States,  and  for  the  State 
of  Virginia,  I  have  nattered  myself  that  your  Lordship  would 
agree  with  me  in  the  opinion  that  on  this  account  the  case  is  en- 
titled to  some  priority  in  the  order  of  Decisions. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Aug.  1,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

The  number  of  complaints  that  I  continue  to  receive  of  the 
interruption  of  the  American  trade  in  the  West  India  Seas  by  his 
Majesty's  cruisers,  occasioned  by  a  mistaken  interpretation  of  our 
Treaty  in  respect  to  the  articles  of  Contraband,  will  be  my  apol- 
ogy for  recalling  your  Lordship's  attention  to  my  former  Repre- 
sentations upon  this  subject. 

As  I  understand  the  import  of  our  past  correspondence,  the 
explanations  concerning  Nails  and  Sail  Cloth  are  settled,  and 
nothing  remains  but  to  agree  that  "  Iron  in  Square  or  flat  Bars  " 
is  not  contraband  of  war  :  a  proposition  so  plain  and  reasonable 
that  I  flatter  myself  no  difference  of  opinion  respecting  it,  can 
exist  between  us. 

A  short  article  to  this  effect,  and  including  the  other  two  points, 


j6  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

would  at  once  put  an  end  to  the  greatest  portion  of  the  Com- 
plaints, that  have  so  frequently  occurred  in  the  course  of  the  last 
ten  months. 

With  very  great  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Aug.  2,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

As  a  preliminary  step,  I  take  the  liberty  to  send  your  Lordship 
inclosed  a  Letter  with  Sundry  Papers  that  I  have  received  from 
the  American  Consul  for  the  Port  of  London,  and  which  relate 
to  a  Piracy  lately  committed  by  a  part  of  the  Crew  of  the  Ameri- 
can Brig  Nancy.  This  Vessel  is  now  in  the  Harbour  of  Cork 
and  the  seamen  are  on  the  British  ships  of  war  under  the  com- 
mand of  Admiral  Kingsmill.  Measures  have  been  taken  to  inform 
the  Captain  of  this  vessel,  who  was  left  at  Cadiz,  of  her  arrival  at 
Cork,  and  he  may  in  a  short  time  be  expected  here  to  assist  in 
the  prosecution  of  the  offenders. 

I  request  your  Lordship's  interference  in  order  that  the  Sea- 
men in  question  may  be  secured  for  trial,  and  that  the  vessel  and 
Cargo  may  be  detained  for  their  legal  owners. 

With  great  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  August  2,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  received  the  orders  of  the  President  of  the  U.  S.  to 
represent  to  your  Lordship  the  cases  of  the  Ships  Blenheim  and 
Voluptas,  belonging  to  American  Citizens,  and  illegally  con- 
demned in  the  Vice  Admiralty  Court  at  Jamaica. 

Exact  statements  of  these  cases,  as  the  same  can  be  established 
by  satisfactory  evidence,  are  contained  in  the  Petitions  to  his 
Majesty  in  Council,  that  are  herewith  transmitted  to  your  Lord- 
ship.    These  Statements  are  so  particular  and  demonstrate  in  so 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  J  J 


clear  a  manner  the  Right  of  the  Claimants  to  be  heard  on  appeal, 
that  I  am  not  willing  to  detain  your  Lordship  by  any  observa- 
tions on  my  part,  to  prove  what  is  thereby  so  well  established. 

I  content  myself  therefore  by  requesting  your  Lordship's  inter- 
ference, in  order  that  the  Claimants  in  these  cases  may  be  allowed 
to  prosecute  their  claims  in  the  competent  Tribunals  for  a  Resto- 
ration of  their  Property. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Wm.  Fawkener,  Esq. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Augt.  3.  1799. 
Sir: 

According  to  advices  that  I  have  lately  received  from  Phila- 
delphia, the  Government  of  the  U.  S.  is  in  want  of  Copper 
Sheathing  and  other  copper  materials  to  sheath  eight  or  ten 
Frigates  and  six  ships  of  war,  which  are  now  building,  and  in  the 
course  of  a  few  months  will  be  ready  for  sea.  Between  fifteen 
and  sixteen  tons  of  copper  are  necessary  for  the  sheathing  of  a 
Frigate,  and  between  eight  and  nine  tons  for  a  Sloop  of  War  : 
ten  Frigates  and  six  Sloops  of  war  will  therefore  require  about 
Two  Hundred  Tons  of  copper  to  sheath  them. 

I  am  sensible  of  the  present  peculiar  situation  of  the  copper 
Trade,  and  that  the  Price  of  copper  continues  to  be  very  high  ; 
but  as  the  quantity  we  want  is  not  large  and  as  the  purpose  to 
which  we  shall  apply  it,  is  one  that  will  be  beneficial  to  England 
as  well  as  the  U.  S.,  I  permit  myself  to  hope  that  their  Lordships 
of  the  Privy  Council  will  grant  us  permission  to  export  in  the  fall 
ships  bound  to  America,  if  not  the  whole  two  Hundred  Tons  of 
copper,  at  least  a  great  proportion  of  that  quantity. 

I  beg  the  favor  of  you,  Sir,  to  present  this  application  to  their 
Lordships,  and  to  express  to  them  in  my  name  how  much  we 
shall  be  obliged  by  the  permission  requested  ;  without  which  our 
Ships  must  go  to  sea  liable  to  all  the  injuries  and  disadvantages, 
against  which  copper  bottoms  are  so  effectual  securities. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER   VI. 

Silverhjehm  to  King — American  Vessel  runs  down  a  Swedish  Cutter — Protest 
of  the  latter's  Captain — Pickering  to  King — Commissioners  under  the 
6th  Article — Causes  of  Separation  and  Comment — Remedy  must  be  by 
Negotiation — King  rents  a  country  Place — King  to  Lord  Elgin,  Ambas- 
sador to  the  Porte — Views  relative  to  intended  U.  S.  Mission  to  Constan- 
tinople— To  Lord  Grenville — President's  Proclamation — The  Trade  with 
St.  Domingo — To  E.  Benson — Government  of  France  embarrassed — 
Allies  full  of  Courage — To  Secretary  of  State — Delays  in  Negotiations — 
Vessels  detained  at  St.  Helena  restored — Continental  Affairs — English  Ex- 
pedition to  Holland  started — In  Paris,  the  Directory  have  shut  up  the  Clubs 
— Troup  to  King — Captures  of  Vessels  in  the  West  Indies — Commissioners 
under  6th  Article — Mission  to  France — General  Davie  appointed — Gore  to 
King — Work  of  Commission  under  7th  Article  not  to  be  resumed  at  Present 
— Bingham  to  King  —  Dissatisfaction  with  Mission  to  France,  though 
perhaps  the  Time  opportune — Affairs  in  United  States  prosperous,  though 
Yellow  Fever  has  appeared  again. 

It  cannot  be  a  matter  of  wonder,  that  the  government 
and  people  of  the  United  States,  while  condemning  the  in- 
sults and  studied  assaults  upon  their  commerce  of  the  French, 
should  be  exasperated  by  the  wanton  outrages  committed 
by  the  English  upon  their  seamen  and  commerce,  while  they 
professed  friendship  and  a  desire  to  be  at  peace,  and  even 
to  induce  the  United  States  to  unite  with  them  in  the  war 
with  France.  The  correspondence  with  Mr.  King  which  has 
been  thus  far  presented  shows  that  he  was  constantly  re- 
quired, by  advices  from  his  government  and  of  his  own  mo- 
tion under  pressing  complaints,  to  remonstrate  with  the 
British  government  for  acts  done  against  the  commerce  of 
the  United  States  and  in  utter  disregard  of  international  law, 
as  well  as  against  the  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Commerce,  and 

78 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  79 

to   demand   redress  in  most    decided    terms    for  their   un- 
friendly acts. 

At  one  time  it  is  the  impressment  of  seamen  in  the  seaports 
of  England,  taking  them  from  out  the  merchant  vessels  and 
even,  in  one  instance,  from  a  man-of-war  through  the 
cowardice  of  her  commanding  officer,  for  which  they  justified 
their  course  by  various  excuses,  their  right  to  claim  their 
own  subjects,  the  want  of  proper  papers,  etc.,  but  which  Mr. 
King  disposes  of  in  his  dispatches  home  by  asserting  that 
the  necessities  of  England,  in  carrying  on  the  war  with 
France,  compelled  her  to  use  every  means  to  strengthen  her 
navy  ;  and  he  presses  his  belief  that  nothing  can  be  done  to 
put  an  end  to  these  outrages  while  the  war  lasts,  and  that 
at  present  his  instructions  on  this  point,  though  faithfully 
carried  out,  will  prove  fruitless. 

At  other  times,  and  constantly,  he  protests  against  the 
capture  and  condemnation  of  vessels  engaged  in  legitimate 
commerce,  by  reckless  officers  seeking  their  own  emoluments, 
regardless  of  the  rights  of  the  merchants,  and  depending 
upon  the  colonial  Vice-Admiralty  courts,  with  ignorant  and 
possibly  corrupt  judges,  to  enable  them  to  escape  the 
penalty  of  their  acts  through  the  wilful  misconstruction  of 
the  treaty,  and  delays  in  making  their  decisions  ;  and  latterly 
he  denounces  the  inefficient  blockade  of  the  Dutch  ports,  by 
which,  during  the  absence  of  the  blockading  squadron,  vessels 
had  no  difficulty  or  restraint  in  entering  what  were  termed 
the  blockaded  ports.  It  is  not  necessary  to  go  into  a  more 
detailed  account  of  these  irritating  acts,  to  show  how  con- 
stantly and  vexatiously  Mr.  King  was  called  upon  to  de- 
mand of  the  British  government  interference  in  putting  an 
end  to  these  outrages  and  indemnity  for  the  infringement 
of  international  law.  It  was  even  necessary  to  charge  the 
inefficiency  of  the  Lord  Chancellor  Marriott  himself,  who 
was  compelled  to  vacate  his  office. 

Unpleasant  as  the  duty  of  constant  remonstrance  was, 
there  was  always  a  courtesy  of  expression  in  making  his 
claims,  and  a  firmness  of  tone,  which  won  for  him  attention 


80  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

to  them,  and  the  respect  of  those  with  whom  he  had  to  deal, 
though,  as  subsequent  correspondence  would  show,  not  al- 
ways with  success.  The  complaints  continued  to  be  made,  de- 
mands for  redress  were  earnestly  sent  in  to  the  king's  officers, 
delays  in  aggravation  of  the  offences  were  interposed,  and 
the  consequence  was  that  restraints  upon  the  enterprise  of 
our  merchants  were  experienced  and  justly  provoked  indig- 
nation against  the  British  government,  which  thus  wantonly 
took  advantage  of  the  inability  of  the  United  States,  at 
that  time,  to  compel  a  due  regard  to  its  rights  as  an  in- 
dependent nation. 


George  de  Silverhjehm  to  Rufus  King. 

{Copy.) 

Sir: 

The  inclosed  official  Protest  made  before  a  Notary  Public  will 
inform  you  of  the  particulars  relative  to  the  most  unaccountable 
conduct  of  some  American  Vessels  lately  towards  a  Ship  of 
war  of  his  Swedish  Majesty,  the  Hawk,  under  the  command  of 
an  officer  of  the  Swedish  Navy,  Capt.  A.  G.  Von  Gerdlen  at  the 
time  cruising  in  the  British  Channel  for  the  protection  of  some 
Swedish  East  Indiamen  then  expected  on  their  home  bound 
Voyage. 

The  good  understanding  subsisting  between  our  respective 
Governments,  their  mutual  interest  in  the  protection,  honour  and 
safety  of  the  Flag  the  unprovoked  and  wanton  manner  in  which 
its  rights  have  been  violated  in  the  present  instance  by  several 
subjects  of  the  United  States,  will  I  am  perfectly  convinced  lead 
you  to  concur  with  me  in  having  this  matter  fully  investigated, 
the  guilty  punished,  indemnity  given  for  the  damage  sustained 
by  the  Swedish  cutter,  and  satisfaction  made  for  this  most  daring 
violation  of  the  rights  of  the  Swedish  Flag. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  with  great  Esteem 

&  Consideration  &c,  &c, 

George  de  Silverhjehm. 


799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  8 1 


Protest  of  Capt.  A.  G.  Von  Gerdlen. 

By  this  public  Instrument  of  Protest  be  it  known  and  made 
manifest  to  all  persons,  that  upon  Friday  the  26th  day  of  July 
1799  personally  appeared  before  me  John  Simpson,  Notary  Pub- 
lic, residing  at  Deal  in  the  County  of  Kent  in  the  Kingdom  of 
Great  Britain  by  lawful  authority  admitted  and  sworn  Axel 
George  Gerdlen,  a  Lieutenant  in  the  service  of  the  King  of 
Sweden,  and  commander  of  his  Swedish  Majesty's  Cutter  of  war 
called  The  Hok,  of  the  force  of  twelve  Guns,  and  under  cruising 
Orders,  and  did  through  the  interpretation  of  Johan  Brunn,  of 
the  town  and  Port  of  Dover,  in  the  said  County  of  Kent,  a  Broker, 
a  person  to  me  the  said  Notary  well  known  and  worthy  of  credit, 
upon  his  faith  and  honesty  solemnly  declare  and  for  truth  affirm 
and  witness  as  follows,  that  is  to  say  that  the  said  Cutter  being 
on  the  2 2d  instant  off  Dungeness  in  the  British  Channel,  with  the 
wind  South  East,  and  very  thick  and  hazy  weather,  about  half- 
past  ten  o'clock  at  night,  a  strange  Ship  hove  in  sight,  just  ahead 
the  cutter,  then  having  her  starboard  and  the  Ship  her  larboard 
tacks  on  board,  when  the  ship  was  immediately  hailed  from  the 
cutter  about  off,  but  this  not  being  taken  notice  of,  the 

cutter's  head  was  put  on  Lee  in  order  to  clear  the  Ship,  but  at 
the  same  time  the  Ship  hauled  her  wind,  and  seemed  determined 
to  run  foul  of  the  cutter,  which  she  immediately  did,  notwith- 
standing every  possible  means  was  used  to  avoid  her,  whereby 
the  Ship  struck  the  said  Cutter  on  her  Larboard  bow  abaft  the 
cathead  and  the  Ship's  Jib-Boom  &  Bowsprit  became  entangled 
with  the  Cutter's  Stay,  and  greatly  damaged  her  Jib  and  Foresail 
which  were  thereby  rendered  useless  and  were  therefore  cut  away, 
together  with  the  Rigging  thereto  belonging,  and  the  mainstay 
was  cut  away  in  order  to  get  the  cutter  clear  from  the  Ship,  but 
the  Ship's  anchor  having  caught  hold  of  the  cutter's  Shrouds, 
they  were  also  obliged  to  be  cut  away  with  a  great  deal  of  running 
Rigging,  and  the  whole  of  the  Larboard  side  of  the  cutter  re- 
ceived a  great  deal  of  damage  and  the  Mainyard  was  broke  occa- 
sioned altogether  by  the  pressure  of  the  ship  on  the  cutter,  having 
all  her  sails  set,  and  on  sounding  the  Pumps  they  found  the  cutter 
to  make  much  more  water  than  usual  :  that  during  the  whole  of 
the  time  the  officers  and  crew  of  the  Cutter  used  their  best  en- 

VOL.    III. — 6 


82  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

deavours  to  get  clear  from  the  Ship,  and  at  the  same  time  the 
Ship  used  all  possible  means  of  grapling  the  Cutter  to  sink  her, 
by  reason  that  the  Cutter  was  taken  to  be  a  French  Privateer, 
notwithstanding  the  officers  and  crew  on  board  of  her  frequently 
declared  they  were  Swedes  ;  but  the  Ship,  which  has  since  been 
discovered  to  be  an  American,  named  the  Fair  American  whereof 
Forster  is  Master,  still  pressed  upon  the  Cutter  and  endeav- 
oured to  let  their  anchor  fall  on  board  of  her  in  order  to  sink 
her,  but  which  was  happily  prevented  by  the  Exertions  of  the 
Cutter's  Crew  ;  that  the  Swedish  Commission  was  then  shown  to 
Capt.  Forster  to  convince  him  of  the  Truth,  but  he  still  persist- 
ing they  were  Frenchmen,  ordered  his  People  to  board  the  Cut- 
ter, which  they  did  armed,  notwithstanding  the  friendly  and 
amicable  behaviour  of  the  Cutter's  officers  and  crew,  and  during 
which  time  the  said  Lieutenant  was  on  board  the  American  Ship, 
endeavouring  to  convince  the  people  they  were  Swedes.  That 
soon  after  the  said  Lieutenant  returned  on  board  his  Cutter,  and 
the  Americans  returned  on  board  their  Ship,  and  by  the  great 
exertions  of  the  Cutter's  crew  they  fortunately  got  the  Cutter 
clear  from  the  Ship,  but  instantly  the  said  ship  together  with  two 
more  ships  and  a  brig  which  were  near  began  to  fire  into  the 
Cutter,  and  one  shot  struck  in  the  Gangway  and  another  between 
wind  and  water  on  the  Larboard  side,  and  an  armed  boat  came 
on  board,  when  again  they  were  told  that  the  Cutter  was  Swedish, 
and  which  they  might  plainly  perceive  by  their  friendly  behaviour, 
and  on  this  being  reported,  the  ships  and  Brig  ceased  firing,  and 
a  Boat  having  again  come  on  board  the  cutter,  the  Lieutenant 
went  on  board  the  American  Brig  Unanimity,  a  letter  of  Marque, 
commanded  by  Captain  William  Earle,  to  whom  his  Commission 
was  shewn,  and  he  was  then  persuaded  that  the  cutter's  crew  were 
Swedes.  That  he  then  sent  his  Boat  back  with  the  Lieutenant, 
who  on  his  return,  discovered  that  six  boys  and  one  Boatswain 
were  missing,  who  had  got  on  board  the  American  Ship,  being 
fearful  of  the  Cutter's  sinking,  and  who  have  since  returned  on 
board  the  Cutter.  That  the  rigging  was  repaired  as  well  as  cir- 
cumstances would  allow  of,  and  also  the  Damage  sustained  in  the 
Hull,  but  it  was  found  absolutely  necessary  for  the  safety  of  the 
Cutter  to  run  into  the  Downs  to  reinstate  her  Loss,  and  to  have 
her  damages  repaired,  and  she  arrived  and  came  to  an  anchor 


7  799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  83 

there  about  8  o'clock  the  next  morning,  and  where  she  now  re- 
mains. And  Therefore  the  said  Lieut  Gerdlen  doth  by  these 
presents  make  &  enter  his  Protest  in  due  form  as  well  against  the 
wind  and  sea,  and  American  Ship  Fair  American,  Captain  Forster 
his  officers  and  Crew  as  also  against  all  and  every  other  Person 
and  Persons  whom  it  doth  and  may  concern.     .     .     . 

John  Simpson, 

A  Master  in  Chancery. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

{Private?) 

Philadelphia,  Aug.  6,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

At  length  a  final  separation  of  the  American  Commissioners 
from  the  Board  sitting  here  under  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty 
of  Amity  with  Great  Britain,  has  taken  place.  During  their  sit- 
tings the  following  points  have  been  introduced  by  Mr.  Mac- 
donald  in  long  and  formal  resolutions  and  adopted  by  a  majority 
of  the  Board. 

Mr.  Pickering  then  enumerates  these  positions,  and  con- 
tinues : 

I  have  said  that  doctrines  maintained  by  Mr.  Macdonald  are  of 
course  adopted  by  Mr.  Rich  and  Mr.  Guillemarde  ;  because  I 
understand  that  they  have  never,  in  a  single  point  or  circumstance, 
given  or  intimated  an  opinion  contrary  to  his  ;  that  if  he  were 
acknowledged  to  possess  i7ifallibility,  there  could  not  be  a  more 
uniform  and  implicit  assent  to  his  opinions  ;  they  have  not  even 
attempted  to  check  and  to  moderate  his  petulance,  overbearing 
and  rude  demeanour.  With  a  different  leader,  such  is  the  appar- 
ent mildness  and  goodness  of  their  disposition,  I  should  suppose 
their  conduct  would  also  be  different.  That  the  two  British 
Commissioners,  appointed  by  that  Government  should  consult 
and  agree  on  sentiments  and  resolutions  to  be  proposed  to  the 
Board,  is  perfectly   natural  ;    but   the   fifth    Commissioner,   the 


84  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

umpire  between  the  Commissioners  of  the  two  Nations,  should 
have  kept  himself  aloof  ;  avoided  consulting,  or  being  consulted 
by  either  side  ;  have  heard  both  publickly  at  the  Board,  and  then 
have  given  his  own  opinion.  This  has  not  been  the  conduct  of 
Mr.  Guillemarde.  Circumstances  have  occurred  which  demon- 
strate a  previous  consultation.  In  short  every  thing  has  appeared 
to  be  prepared  and  privately  agreed  to  by  the  three ;  and  when 
proposed  by  Mr.  Macdonald  to  the  Board,  the  other  two  Mr. 
Rich  and  Mr.  Guillemarde  had  only  to  say  "Yes."  I  have  not 
learnt  that  either  of  these  two  ever  attempted  to  argue  on  a  single 
question. 

It  was  unfortunate  that  arbitrators  could  not  have  been  ap- 
pointed who  were  divested  of  all  national  feelings,  on  either  side. 
I  suppose  the  idea  to  be  impracticable.  As  we  now  disagree  on 
important  principles  a  remedy  must  be  attempted  by  negotiation* 
The  materials  are  prepared  and  preparing  for  this  purpose  ;  and 
by  the  next  Packet  I  expect  will  be  transmitted  to  you  with  the 
President's  Instructions.  You  too  well  know  the  individual 
characters  of  the  members  of  the  administration  to  suffer  it  to  be 
imagined  that  the  interruption  in  the  proceedings  of  the  Board  is 
in  any  manner  to  be  ascribed  to  improper  views  on  their  part  : 
and  I  believe  you  are  well  enough  acquainted  with  the  two 
American  Commissioners  to  pronounce  them  incapable  of  undue 
bias,  or  that  their  opinions  have  been  opposed  to  the  opinions  of 
the  other  Commissioners  on  any  other  ground  than  their  sense  of 
Justice  and  equity. 

T.  Pickering. 


Mr.  King  at  this  time  decided  to  take  a  house  in  the 
country  for  the  summer  season,  as  the  following  letter  will 
show.  It  may  be  here  said  that  he  was  fond  of  the  country- 
life,  which,  after  his  return  to  America,  he  sought  and  con- 
tinued to  enjoy  during  the  portions  of  the  year  when  he  was 
not  engaged  at  the  seat  of  government.  In  his  new  home 
at  Mill  Hill,  he  experimented  in  horticultural  matters,  among 
which,  he  often  spoke  of  his  endeavor  to  raise  sweet  corn, 
but  unsuccessfully,  as  the  climate  was  too  cold. 


17991  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  85 

R.  King  to  Sam.  J.  Davis. 

Brighton,  Aug.  8,  1799. 
Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  notwithstanding  agree  to  take  your  house  at  Mill 
Hill  upon  the  terms  mentioned  in  your  last  letter  for  one  year 
beginning  on  the  15th  of  this  month,  which  is  several  weeks 
sooner  than  I  can  occupy  it.  ...  I  beg  the  favor  of  you  to 
inform  me  what  you  have  paid  the  gardener  and  how  much  help 
he  has  been  allowed  :  if  he  works  with  the  same  alacrity  that  he 
talks,  he  must  be  an  excellent  servant.     .     .     . 


R.  King  to  Lord  Elgin,  Ambassador  Extraordinary  to  the 

Porte,  etc.,  etc. 

{Private.') 

Brighton,  Aug.  10,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  promised  myself  the  honor,  and  was  much  disappointed  in  not 
having  found  an  opportunity,  of  paying  my  respects  to  yr.  Lord.p 
before  I  left  town  ;  I  had  a  twofold  motive  to  have  done  so,  that 
of  taking  leave  of  yr.  L.p  before  yr.  departure  for  Constantinople, 
and  of  adding  a  word  or  two  to  what  had  already  passed  between 
us,  upon  the  Subject  of  the  intended  Mission  of  the  U.  S.  to 
Porte.  I  avail  myself  of  yr.  L.p's  permission  concisely  to  explain 
our  views  in  this  mission,  the  Success  of  which  will  so  materially 
depend  upon  the  favorable  Sentiments,  and  well  earned  influence 
of  your  Government 

It  need  not  be  remarked  that  our  remote  situation  must  exclude 
on  the  one  side  as  on  the  other,  every  idea  of  political  influence  ; 
and  I  can  imagine  only  two  motives  that  can  recommend  a  negotia- 
tion between  the  American  &  Turkish  Governments  ;  the  first  is  the 
extension  of  our  Trade  to  Constantinople  and  its  dependencies  ; 
and  the  second,  the  obtaining  of  the  influence  of  the  Ottoman 
Government  in  our  favor  with  the  Barbary  Regencies,  not  for  the 
Purpose  of  negotiating  treaties  with  them,  but  to  preserve  those 
that  at  great  Expence  we  have  already  concluded.  In  respect  to 
our  Trade,  we  naturally  desire  to  place  it  upon  the  most  advan- 


86  RUFUS  KING.  [J799 


tageous  footing,  and  if  we  could  put  it  upon  the  same  as  that  of 
England,  we  could  have  nothing  further  to  desire.     According  to* 
my  information  (which  however  is  I  fear  far  from  being  accurate) 
with  the  good  will  and  favor  of  your  Government,  it  is  probable 
that  we  should  not  have  much  difficulty  in  the  attainment  of  this 
principal  object  of  our  wishes.     The  second  Point  will  in  some 
degree  follow  of  course  the  accomplishment  of  the  first,  and  in  its 
nature  must  chiefly  depend  upon  our  future  intercourse  and  good 
understanding   with   the    Turkish   Government.     Our  system   is 
one  of  strict  economy,  and  from   which  we   shall  be  unwilling 
to  depart  in  even  a  negotiation  with  the  Porte.     The  customary 
Expences  must  be  defrayed,  and  we  shall  be  disposed  to  reduce 
and  confine  them  as  far  as  shall  be  found  practicable.     Should 
Mr.  Smith  arrive  while  yr.  Lp.  remains  at  Constantinople,  he  will 
derive  essential  advantages  from  yr.  Presence  and  Support,  and  I 
persuade  myself  that  you  will  find  in  him  a  most  valuable  addition 
to  yr.  Society  among  a  People,  whose  thoughts  and  manners  are 
so  very  different  from  ours.     With  the  most  sincere  wishes  for 
yr.  Lp's  welfare  and  for  the  compleat  success  of  your  Embassy,  I 
have  the  honor  to  be  with  the  greatest  consn.  &  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

(Private.) 

Brighton,  Aug.  10,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  been  obliged  to  come  here  for  a  short  time  on  account 
of  the  ill  health  of  a  part  of  my  family.  As  General  Maitland 
had  been  in  London  for  several  days,  I  was  in  hopes  that  I  should 
have  been  able  to  ascertain  the  result  of  his  late  voyage  to  St. 
Domingo,  before  I  left  town.  I  have  no  letters  from  Col.  Pick- 
ering of  a  date  so  late  as  to  give  me  any  information  on  this 
head,  but  I  observe  in  the  American  News  Papers,  a  Proclama- 
tion by  the  President,  opening  after  the  first  day  of  the  present 
month  a  trade  between  the  U.  S.  and  two  of  the  Ports  of  St. 
Domingo.  As  I  am  ignorant  whether  General  Maitland  has  in 
concert  with  Mr.  Stevens,  our  Agent  at  St.  Domingo,  concluded  an 
arrangement  respecting  the  Trade  to  that  Island,  that  is  likely  to* 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  87 

receive  the  sanction  of  your  Government,  I  feel  some  concern, 
least  from  the  want  of  such  concert,  or  from  a  misunderstanding 
by  yr.  naval  officers  in  those  seas,  of  what  has  been  settled  by 
Genl.  Maitland,  our  vessels  trading  to  St.  Domingo  may  be  inter- 
rupted by  your  Cruisers.  The  eagerness  with  which  our  Mer- 
chants are  likely  to  reengage  in  this  trade,  satisfies  me  that 
American  property  to  a  large  amount  is  already  embarked  in 
voyages  to  that  Island,  and  this  consideration  will  I  hope  appear 
to  your  Lordship  a  sufficient  apology  for  the  liberty  I  take  in  in- 
quiring whether  Genl.  Maitland  has  concluded  an  agreement  with 
Toussaint  on  the  Basis  of  what  was  before  settled  between  the 
General  and  Col.  Pickering  at  Philadelphia. 

With  the  highest  consideration  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Egbert  Benson. 

Brighton,  Aug.  21,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  8.  June,  with  Mr.  Liston's 
Bill  in  your  favor  upon  the  Treasury  for  the  amount  of  the 
Moiety  of  your  salary  as  Fifth  Commissioner.  ...  I  am  at 
a  loss  what  to  say  to  you  respecting  Politicks.  I  avail  myself  of 
your  authority  to  take  back  what  was  written  to  Sedgwick,  tho'  it 
was  correct  at  the  time  and  ought  to  have  encouraged  our  perse- 
verance. The  Duke  however  has  nothing  to  reproach  himself 
with.  The  Turks  as  well  as  the  Austrians  being  engaged  in  the 
war,  Russia  has  become  a  zealous  and  most  powerful  ally  of 
Engd.  against  France,  whose  armies  are  expelled  from  Italy  and 
according  to  appearances  will  soon  be  called  upon  to  defend  their 
own  Territory  against  the  invasion  of  the  allies.  The  affairs  and 
government  of  France  were  never  more  embarrassed.  The  allies 
are  full  of  courage  and  of  hope.  Still  I  do  not  participate  in  the 
confidence  so  generally  entertained  that  the  present  campaign 
will  close  the  war.  England  is  employed  in  sending  a  powerful 
expedition  for  the  deliverance  of  Holland.  A  corps  of  Russians 
is  to  cooperate  with  the  English  and  an  extensive  revolt  and  in- 
surrection are  expected  throughout  the  Dutch  territories.  We 
are  told  that  Russia  has  been  successful  in  her  efforts  to  engage 


88  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

Sweden  in  the  coalition.  Denmark  is  at  this  time  hardly  pressed 
towards  the  same  object  both  by  Engd.  and  Russia  ;  and  the 
latter  has  declared  war,  or  will  soon  do  so,  against  Spain,  because 
she  does  not  withdraw  from  the  peace  with  France.  The  Poli- 
ticks of  St.  Petersburg,  which  will  not  be  opposed  to  England, 
would  divide  the  whole  world  into  two  parties,  the  friends  and 
enemies  of  France  ;  and  if  the  war  continues,  the  question  will 
be  brought  to  this  issue. 

With  great  truth  and  attachment  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State.     No.  47. 

Brighton,  Aug.  29,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Dispersion  of  the  Members  of  the  Government,  as  usual 
at  this  season,  is  accompanied  with  the  postponement  of  all  busi- 
ness excepting  the  most  pressing  and  important.  This  circum- 
stance joined  to  the  activity  with  which  England  negotiates  at  all 
the  Courts  upon  the  Continent  for  the  purpose  of  so  extending 
and  cementing  the  coalition  against  France,  will  account  for 
the  delay  we  suffer  in  receiving  answers  to  our  various  appli- 
cations. 

No  further  progress  is  yet  made  in  the  negotiation  of  the  arti- 
cle respecting  Contraband,  nor  can  I  add  anything  to  what  I 
have  formerly  said  concerning  St.  Domingo.  I  have  again  and 
again  pressed  the  conclusion  of  the  former,  and  more  than  once 
recently,  tho'  unsuccessfully,  inquired  respecting  the  latter. 

The  cases  of  the  Ships  Kensington  and  Iphigenia  (an  account 
of  whose  detention  by  the  Governor  of  St.  Helena  I  have  before 
sent  you)  have  been  at  last  decided  ;  the  ships  and  Cargoes  have 
been  restored,  and  the  legality  of  the  trade  between  Serampore  & 
Denmark  allowed.  The  Ships  detained  for  breach  of  Blockade, 
are  not  yet  tried,  owing  as  we  are  told  to  the  number  of  older 
cases.  From  what  has  been  lately  decided  with  regard  to  the 
Danes,  Swedes  and  Prussians  under  circumstances  not  very 
dissimilar,  I  am  not  encouraged  to  expect  a  favorable  issue  of 
these  cases. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  89 

The  News  Papers  of  the  23d  instant  contain  a  Report  of  the 
Trials  of  the  American  Ships  Minerva  and  Nymph,  captured  by 
a  French  Privateer  and  recaptured  by  an  English  Frigate.  Ac- 
cording to  this  Report,  the  Recaptors  not  content  with  the  Sal- 
vage of  an  Eighth  as  heretofore,  demanded  a  condemnation  in 
toto  upon  the  absurd  doctrine  that  twenty  four  hours  enemy  pos- 
session divests  the  first  Owner  of  his  property.  The  Report 
makes  the  Judge  decree  that  the  property  shall  be  sold,  that  an 
Eighth  share  immediately  be  paid  to  the  Recaptors,  and  the  other 
8ths  vested  in  the  funds  to  wait  a  final  decision.  The  Report 
likewise  contains  some  remarks  of  the  Judge  alike  unexpected 
and  extraordinary.  As  these  Papers  may  reach  the  United  States 
and  produce  the  like  sentiments  there  as  they  have  excited  here, 
I  think  proper  to  inform  you  that  these  Reports  in  every  excep- 
tionable point  are  wholly  erroneous. — Sir  William  Scott  sent  for 
Mr.  Williams  to  express  to  him  how  much  he  had  been  hurt  by 
the  misrepresentations  that  had  gone  abroad  concerning  these 
Trials  ;  and  Mr  Williams  informs  me  that  the  demand  of  a  con- 
demnation in  toto  was  made  not  in  right  of  the  recapture,  for 
which  service  \  is  the  customary  salvage  in  the  case  of  a  national 
Ship,  but  upon  the  allegation  that  the  whole  property  is  good 
prize  on  account  of  the  illegality  of  the  trade,  these  Ships  being 
engaged  when  first  taken  in  a  voyage  from  the  Spanish  Colonies 
to  Old  Spain. 

Before  this  reaches  you,  you  will  have  heard  of  the  safe  arrival 
at  Brest  of  the  French  and  Spanish  Fleets.  The  English,  who 
are  mortified  and  disappointed  that  the  junction  has  been 
effected,  and  that  the  combined  fleet  has  escaped  from  the  Medi- 
terranean, where  they  expected  to  confine  them,  have  reinforced 
their  Channel  fleet  which  is  now  equal  or  superior  to  that  of  the 
Enemy  at  Brest. 

Mantua,  as  well  as  Alexandria,  has  capitulated,  and  at  the  date 
of  the  latest  advices,  the  allies  were  masters  of  all  Italy,  except- 
ing a  few  Ports  in  the  Roman  Territory  that  cannot  be  defended, 
and  the  Coast  of  Genoa,  upon  which  the  little  army  of  Moreau, 
united  with  the  Remains  of  that  of  MacDonald,  still  kept 
possession. 

In  Switzerland  nothing  material  has  lately  occurred,  the  army 
of  Massena,  if  we  believe  the  French  accounts,  is  superior  to  that 


90  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

of  the  Arch  Duke,  and  may  perhaps  resume  the  offensive  before 
the  arrival  of  the  Russians. 

It  is  now  a  fortnight  since  the  first  division  of  the  English  Ex- 
pedition against  Holland  sailed  from  the  Downs  ;  a  week  ago  it 
was  off  the  Texel,  but  had  not  attempted  to  land.  Whether 
General  Abercromby  waits  for  the  Russians  who  are  to  come  thro' 
the  Sound,  or  for  a  second  division  from  England  we  know  not, 
possibly  a  negotiation  is  going  on  between  the  English  and  Dutch 
fleets,  and  il  may  be  that  the  English  are  likely  to  meet  with 
greater  opposition  than  was  expected. 

The  Struggle  which  began  to  appear  between  the  Clubs  and 
the  Directory  seems  to  have  subsided.  At  Paris  the  Club  has 
been  shut  up  by  the  Directory,  which  has  taken  the  ascendency 
with  united  support  of  the  Councils. 

Great  efforts  are  making  to  complete  the  new  loans,  which  we 
are  told  are  attended  with  much  success  ;  at  the  same  time 
that  it  is  evident,  as  well  from  the  Messages  of  the  Directory, 
and  debates  of  the  Councils,  as  from  the  letters  from  the  armies,, 
that  money  is  extremely  scarce,  and  the  finances  in  the  greatest 
embarrassment. 

Partial  and  premature  insurrections  have  broken  out  in  many 
of  the  Departments,  without  concert  or  hope  of  support,  and  have 
generally  been  easily  suppressed. 

The  attack  of  the  allies  is  imminent,  and  will  be  formidable  ;  it 
remains  to  be  seen  with  what  energy  and  success  it  will  be  resisted. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem, 

Rufus  King. 

Mr.  Gore,  who,  while  the  proceedings  of  the  Commission! 
under  the  7th  Article  were  suspended,  was  making  a  journey 
through  England  and  Scotland,  wrote  to  Mr.  King,  from 
Glasgow,  a  letter  from  which  the  following  is  an  extract : 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Glasgow,  August  31. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

...     I  foresee  much  delay  in  our  commission  and  that  in 

addition  to  the  obstacles  inherent  in  the  business  itself,  its  further 

progress  must  be  much  influenced  &  impeded  by  the  general 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  91 

politics  of  England,  and  our  awkward  relation  to  the  belligerent 
powers.  From  what  I  see  in  the  papers,  G.  B.  will  not  be  very 
inclined  to  do  more  than  justice  requires  towards  us  or  others. 
I  am  doomed  to  pass  several  months  at  least  in  listless  inactivity 
— However,  complaining  will  do  no  good,  my  chagrin  &  mortifi- 
cation may  be  increased,  but  cannot  be  diminished  by  anything 
I  can  do.  .  .  .  Trumbull  says  Anstey  informed  him  that  he 
and  his  colleagues  would  not  receive  permission  to  cooperate 
in  the  execution  of  our  duties  until  the  B.  Government  had 
received  notice  that  awards  had  been  made  and  paid  in 
America.     .     .     . 

Yours  &c. 

C.  Gore. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  2d  Sept.,  1799. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  late  captures  in  the  West  Indies  by  British  cruisers 
are  enormous,  and  a  late  Judge,  who  has  come  to  the  Bahamas, 
condemns  with  the  rapacity  of  a  shark  every  vessel  that  is 
brought  in  ;  a  single  contraband  article,  however  trifling  in 
value,  is  held  by  the  Judge  in  all  cases  to  be  sufficient  cause  for 
condemning  the  whole  vessel  and  cargo.  Serious  public  discon- 
tents are  arising  against  the  British  in  consequence  ;  and  I  do 
not  see  how  our  government  can  avoid  interference. 

Our  Commissioners  under  the  article  of  the  Treaty  respecting, 
British  debts  have  some  time  since  seceded,  and  the  proceedings 
of  the  whole  board  are  for  the  present  suspended.  I  hear  that 
Mr.  Rich,  one  of  the  B.  Commissioners  goes  home  in  the  packet 
by  which  I  send  this.  The  construction  put  upon  the  Treaty  by 
the  British  Commissioners,  I  am  well  persuaded,  will  never  be 
submitted  to  by  this  country.  The  confiscated  debts  are  univer- 
sally by  us  considered  as  having  been  relinquished  by  the  Treaty 
of  Peace.  The  demand  on  the  part  of  the  British  Commissioners, 
excites  much  ill  blood. 

Patrick  Henry  having  lately  died,  the  President  has  nominated 
General  Davie  of  North  Carolina  to  accompany  Chief  Justice 
Ellsworth  in  the  Mission  to  France.     A  letter  has  lately  been. 


92  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

received  from  Talleyrand  complying  with  the  President's  requi- 
sition as  to  the  reception  of  our  ministers.  The  Chief  Justice 
and  General  Davie  will  sail  in  the  course  of  three  or  four  weeks 
at  farthest.  I  am  told  the  Chief  Justice  goes  sorely  agt.  his  will. 
The  whole  measure  is  very  nauseous  to  the  friends  of  the  govern- 
ment.    .     .     . 

We  again  have  the  yellow  fever  in  the  City.  Things  however 
are  not  so  bad  as  last  year  at  this  time.  The  eastern  and  lower 
parts  of  the  city  are  abandoned,  and  this  is  assigned  as  the 
reason  why  we  have  not  been  so  sickly.     Philadelphia  is  worse 

off  than  we  are.     .     .     . 

God  bless  you 

R.  T. 


Wm.  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

Lansdown,  Sept.  2,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Our  Commission  will  take  its  Departure  for  France  in  the 
Course  of  the  present  Month.  You  will  have  heard  that  the 
President  has  appointed  Mr.  Davie  of  No.  Carolina,  in  the  stead 
of  Patrick  Henry,  deceased. 

The  French  Directory  readily  caught  at  the  opening  for  a  new 
Negotiation,  &  removed  all  the  Difficulties  in  its  way,  by  acced- 
ing to  the  preliminary  Points,  that  had  been  insisted  on. 

But  this  Measure  is  not  very  popular  amongst  the  best  Friends 
of  the  Administration — for  in  the  actual  Position  of  our  Affairs, 
having  incurred  all  the  essential  Expense  of  protecting  our  Com- 
merce, &  from  the  present  Character  of  the  French  Government, 
when  such  little  Reliance  can  be  placed  on  its  Engagements,  it 
would  have  been  more  advisable  to  have  continued  the  System 
of  armed  Neutrality.  Besides,  if  this  Attempt  should  eventuate 
in  a  Renewal  of  the  Treaties  with  France,  there  will  doubtless  be 
found  a  strong  Party  in  Congress,  in  favor  of  disarming  ;  by 
which,  if  they  should  succeed,  we  shall  again  expose  our  Com- 
merce to  Insult  &  Depredation,  &  lose  the  Opportunity  of  estab- 
lishing a  naval  Force,  which  is  so  essential  to  the  Interests,  as 
well  as  conducive  to  the  Respectability  of  the  Country. 

There  never  was  a  period,  when  the   Extent  of  our  Trade  & 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE. 


93 


our  Resources  drawn  from  its  success,  would  so  fully  enable  us 
to  support  the  heavy  Establishment  of  a  Navy.  The  Measure 
has  therefore  met  with  less  opposition,  than  it  has  usually  en- 
countered  ;  for  it  has  been  clearly  ascertained,  that  the  Savings 
in  the  Premiums  of  Insurance,  will  nearly  counter  ballance  the 
Expences  that  will  attend  the  operation. 

I  am  afraid  our  Cabinet  will  not  derive  much  Credit  for  a  dig- 
nified Deportment  amongst  the  Nations  of  Europe,  from  this 
premature  Mission  to  the  French  Directory  :  the  Measure  will 
certainly  be  invidious,  &  may  eventually  be  attended  with  some 
serious  Consequences. 

If  the  combined  Powers  continue  their  Successes,  there  will  be 
but  little  difficulty  in  the  Negotiation,  and  perhaps  Experience 
may  have  discovered  to  the  French  Government  the  Infatuation 
of  quarreling  with  neutral  Nations,  at  a  time  when  they  are  de- 
prived of  all  means  of  introducing  supplies  into  their  own  Coun- 
try, or  of  furnishing  them  to  their  own  Colonies. 

A  Report  prevails  that  France  has  ceded  Holland  to  Prussia  ■ 
this  may  effect  a  great  Change  in  the  Destinies  of  the  War ;  for 
it  is  probably  the  Price  of  Prussia's  Cooperation,  which  must 
have  viewed  with  a  jealous  Eye  the  Aggrandizement  of  Austria, 
from  the  Acquisition  of  Venice,  &  must  have  been  equally  am- 
bitious of  becoming  a  maritime  Power.  As  for  the  Manner  of 
obtaining  them,  neither  Power  would  possess  many  Qualms  or 
Scruples,  as  the  Morality  of  the  States  is  conveniently  regulated 
by  their  Interests. 

Altho'  in  general  the  affairs  of  our  Country  are  in  a  very 
flourishing  State,  yet  we  experience  a  very  considerable  Draw- 
back both  in  domestic  Happiness  &  pecuniary  Interests,  from 
the  continued  Attacks  of  a  pestilential  Fever,  to  which  our  large 
Cities  have  been  exposed,  for  several  preceding  Years  ;  It  has 
again  appeared  in  New  York  &  Philada,  &  altho'  not  so 
alarming,  from  being  of  a  less  virulent  character,  has  occasioned 
a  general  Emigration  of  the  Citizens  &  all  the  Expence  &  De- 
rangement that  can  arise  therefrom. 

The  electioneering  Campaign  has  been  opened  very  early  in 
the  Season  &  immense  exertions  have  been  made  by  both  Par- 
ties— the  whole  Strength  of  the  State  will  be  drawn  out,  on  this 
occasion.     I  have  little  apprehension  for  the  Result,  as  the  federal 


94  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

Party  has  gained  a  great  Accession  of  Strength,  by  the  miscon- 
duct of  the  French.  Ross's  Interest  in  the  western  Counties 
will  enable  him  to  run  higher  than  any  other  Candidate,  we 
could  have  nominated. 

Yours  &c. 

Wm.  Bingham. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

Pickering  to  King — Character  of  the  Commissioners  under  Article  6,  and 
Points  of  Disagreement — Desire  of  the  President  to  do  Justice  ;  will  pro- 
pose an  explanatory  Article — Trumbull  to  King — Resignation  of  Sir 
James  Marriott — King  to  Secretary  of  State — English  landed  in  Holland — 
Prussia  proposes  the  Restoration  of  the  Prince  of  Orange — French  Defeats 
in  Switzerland — Want  of  Union  among  the  Allies — Cabot  to  King — Feeling 
against  Appointment  of  Ministers  to  France  ;  it  will  probably  cause  Appre- 
hension in  England  and  Russia — King  to  Count  Rumford,  urging  him  to 
visit  the  United  States — They  have  established  a  Military  Academy,  and 
would  commit  it  to  his  Superintendence — To  Secretary  of  State — Baron 
Silverhjelm's  Letter — Expedition  to  Holland  ;  Russians  join  it — To  Mr. 
Hammond — Explanatory  Article  relative  to  the  18th  Article  of  the  Treaty 
— Rumford  to  King  ;  would  gladly  visit  United  States  and  accept  the 
Offer  of  the  Executive  Government — His  present  Engagements  prevent 
this. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Sept.  4,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

A  letter  received  last  evening  from   Mr.  Fitzsimons  informed 

me  that  Mr.  Macdonald  *  and  Mr.  Rich,  Commissioners  appointed 

by  Great  Britain  under  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity 

and  Commerce,  were  going  to  embark  for  England  in  the  Packet 

to  sail  this  week  from  New  York.     It  appears  from  his  letter  to 

have  been  to  him  a  sudden  and  unexpected  movement.     But  I 

do  not  know  that  this  step,  if  it  could  be  prevented,  should  be 

objected  to,  because  I  see  no  probability  that  the  business  of  the 

Board  can  ever  be  executed  by  the  present  members.     Indepen- 

dentlyof  the  opinions  stronglyexpressed, which  it  would  not  be  easy 

to  retract,  there  appears  to  me  an  incompatibility  of  temper.     If  I 

am  rightly  informed,  it  would  be  difficult  for  any  set  of  American 

Commissioners  to  act  harmoniously  with  Mr.  Macdonald  ;  unless 

*  In  another  he  states  that  Mr.  Rich  alone  went  to  England. 

95 


96  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

they  possessed  such  meek  and  yielding  dispositions  as  to  submit 
implicitly  to  his  dogmas.  Such  meekness  is  in  his  colleagues, 
Mr.  Rich  and  Mr.  Guillemarde,  who  tho'  they  appear,  and  I  verily 
believe  them,  to  be  worthy  men,  have  not  in  a  single  instance, 
dissented  from  Mr.  Macdonald,  or  started  an  objection  to  any- 
thing he  has  advanced  ;  so  that  it  would  be  perfectly  equal,  as  to 
the  final  issue  of  their  proceedings,  whether  they  continued  mem- 
bers of  the  Board,  or  that  Mr.  Macdonald  were  authorized,  on 
every  question,  to  give  three  votes.  .  .  .  If  I  am  rightly  in- 
formed Mr.  Macdonald  is  not  only  thus  predominant,  but  that 
towards  the  American  Commissioners  he  has  been  in  the  highest 
degree  overbearing  and  arrogant  ;  and  not  very  delicate  towards 
our  Country. 

I  think  it  fortunate  that  you  are  acquainted  with  the  individual 
characters  of  the  American  Commissioners  ;  you  know  all  the 
members  of  the  Executive  Government,  except  the  Secretary  of 
the  Navy  ;  and  you  know  the  members  of  the  two  Houses  of 
Congress,  of  leading  influence  in  the  measures  of  the  U.  S.  ;  and 
you  know  that  all  these,  besides  detesting  every  species  of  fraud 
and  evasion,  and  that  above  all  things  they  are  ambitious  of 
maintaining  the  character  of  unblemished  integrity  and  good 
faith,  are  particularly  desirous  of  completely  executing  what 
they  so  indefatigably  laboured  to  establish,  the  Treaty  of  Amity 
and  Commerce  between  the  United  States  and  Great  Britain. 
Here  is  a  pledge  on  which  Great  Britain  may  rely.  But  the 
Commissioners  differ  essentially  in  the  construction  of  the 
Treaty.  The  points  of  difference  must  then  become  the  subjects 
of  further  negociation  between  the  two  Governments. 

These  points  have  been  laid  before  the  President  by  the  At- 
torney General  ;  the  American  Commissioners  will  do  it  more 
fully  ;  and  the  result  will  undoubtedly  be  an  Instruction  to  you 
to  confer  with  the  British  Ministers,  and  agree  in  an  explanatory 
article  which  may  be  satisfactory  to  both  Countries. 

In  a  subsequent  letter,  Nov.  7,  1799,  Mr.  Pickering  says: 

"  As  soon  as  the  President  comes  to  town,  he  will  determine  on 
the  Instructions  to  be  given  to  you  concerning  the  different  inter- 
pretations by  the  American  and  British  Commissioners  of  the  6th 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  gy 


article.  .  .  .  The  desire  of  the  President  to  do  perfect  justice 
to  British  Creditors  will  certainly  dispose  him  to  admit  every 
principle  which  that  article  was  intended  to  comprehend,  and  I 
cannot  doubt  but  that  you  will  be  able  speedily  to  settle  with  the 
British  Ministers  such  rules  as  shall  be  necessary  to  a  recom- 
mencement of  the  investigation  of  those  claims." 

On  the  31st  of  December,  1799,  Mr.  Pickering  in  his 
official  letter  says : 

"  That  the  President  has  determined  to  propose  that  the  true 
interpretation  of  that  article  (the  6th)  should  be  settled  by  such  a 
mutual  and  friendly  explanation  as  will  give  full  effect  to  the  just 
engagements  which  were  thereby  formed  on  the  part  of  the 
United  States." 

He  notifies  Mr.  K.,  that  he  will  receive  the  necessary- 
papers  "  containing  every  thing  essential  to  be  known  " ; 
and  at  the  same  time  a  statement  of  "  the  principles  proper 
to  form  the  basis  of  an  Article  or  Articles  explanatory  of 
the  6th  Article  .  .  .  and  for  facilitating  its  due  execu- 
tion."    Mr.  P.  continues. 


<< 


I  have  further  to  inform  you  that  Mr.  Sitgreaves  having  as 
one  of  the  Commissioners,  assiduously  and  thoroughly  investi- 
gated this  subject ;  and  thereby  acquired  an  accurate  knowledge 
of  every  question  to  be  discussed  between  you  and  the  British 
Government,  the  President  has  thought  it  expedient  that  he 
should  go  to  London  to  facilitate  your  researches  and  render  you 
every  assistance  which  his  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  business 
will  enable  him  to  give.  It  is  also  apprehended  that  you  may 
derive  much  useful  information  from  Mr.  Sitgreaves  relative  to 
transactions  in  the  Board,  which  the  written  documents  either  do 
not  contain  or  will  not  suggest ;  and  finally  that  by  this  measure 
the  conclusion  of  the  negotiations  may  be  expedited  ;  For  altho* 
Mr.  MacDonald,  Mr.  Rich  and  Mr.  Guillemarde  in  their  letter  of 
the  14th  of  August  to  Mr.  Fitzsimons  and  Mr.  Sitgreaves,  as  plainly 
as  indecorously,  insinuated  that  the  latter  seceded  from  the  Board 
for  the  purpose  of  delaying  payments  by  the  United  States,   you 

VOL.   III. — 7 


98  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

will  know  that  nothing  can  be  more  unfounded  than  this  imputa- 
tion. The  President  is  anxious  to  have  the  expected  explanations 
speedily  agreed  on,  that  the  business  of  the  Boards  in  London 
and  Philadelphia  may  be  resumed.  There  is  not  any  branch  of 
the  Government,  nor  within  my  knowledge  an  individual  officer, 
who  would  not  view  with  disdain  the  insinuation  above  mentioned. 
But  the  disposition  and  opinions  predominating  with  the  Commis- 
sioners from  Great  Britain  are  utterly  incompatible  with  harmony 
in  the  proceedings,  and,  as  we  conceive,  with  justice  and  equity 
in  the  adjustment  of  British  claims.  Besides,  the  personalities 
which  have  taken  place  between  the  members  rendering  any 
future  cordiality  between  them  hopeless,  show  the  dissolution  of 
the  present  Board  to  be  indispensable. 


J.  Trumbull  to  R.  King,  Margate. 

London,  Sept.  5th,  1799. 
Dear  Sir, 

I  have  this  moment  had  a  visit  from  a  Gentleman  whose  infor- 
mation may  be  relied  upon  to  tell  me  that  St.  James  Marriott  has 
this  morning  made  a  proposition  to  Government,  to  quit  his  pres- 
ent situation  on  condition  of  certain  terms  which  he  has  named. 
These  I  understand  to  be  rather  high,  and  such  as  the  Govern- 
ment may  hesitate  to  comply  with.  As  therefore  it  is  of  vast  im- 
portance to  neutral  nations  (and  to  none  more  than  to  us)  that  he 
should  be  replaced  by  a  more  efficient  man,  and  as  the  represen- 
tation to  this  purpose  of  some  of  the  Ministers  of  Neutral  powers, 
coinciding  at  this  time  with  his  proposal  of  retirement,  would 
probably  decide  Government  to  comply  with  his  offers,  it  is  sug- 
gested to  you,  whether  this  is  not  an  occasion  worth  the  trouble 
of  a  ride  to  town.  The  moment  is  the  more  important  from  the 
strange  temper  of  the  man  which  may  induce  him,  if  there  should 
be  much  hesitation  on  the  part  of  the  Government,  to  fly  from 
his  proposed  terms  and  resolve  to  die  in  his  chair. 

If  it  should  appear  to  you  as  important  as  I  confess  it  does  to 
me,  and  you  should  determine  to  come  to  town  (which  it  will  be 
best  to  do  immediately)  I  will  wait  on  you  as  soon  as  you  let  me 
know  your  arrival,  for  the  purpose  of  saying  more  than  is  proper 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  99 


to   say  here,   and   of  communicating  to  you  my   authority  from 
whom  personally  you  may  receive  further  useful  information.    .    . 

Most  truly  yours, 

Jno.  Trumbull. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  48. 

London,  Sept.  5,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  first  division  of  the  English  of  10,000  men  under  General 
Abercrombie  has  made  good  its  landing  upon  the  mainland  on 
the  right  of  the  entrance  of  the  Texel  :  the  descent  was  vigorously 
opposed  and  cost  the  English  between  400  and  500  men  killed 
and  wounded.  The  fort  of  the  Helder  as  well  as  the  Texel  Island 
soon  submitted,  and  a  division  of  the  English  fleet  having  without 
molestation  entered  the  Texel  and  summoned  the  Dutch  fleet,  the 
whole  of  it  consisting  of  nearly  thirty  sail  of  which  eight  or  ten 
are  of  the  line,  under  the  command  of  Admiral  Story,  surrendered 
to  the  English  in  trust  for  the  Stadtholder.  The  second  division 
of  English  troops  arrived  and  landed  the  day  after  the  landing  of 
the  first,  and  we  hear  that  5000  Russians  have  joined  them. 
These  Corps  will  be  immediately  followed  by  the  Commander-in- 
Chief,  the  Duke  of  York,  with  12,000  more  English  Troops,  and  a 
further  body  of  10,000  Russians.  It  was  expected  that  Sweden 
would  have  co-operated  with  8000  troops  in  the  pay  of  England, 
but  the  subsidy  demanded  was  so  high,  having  regard  to  that 
paid  to  Russia,  that  England  refused  to  give  it.  Unless  the  infor- 
mation from  Holland  is  extremely  erroneous,  the  disaffection  to 
the  present  Government  is  general  thro'  all  the  Provinces  :  the 
Dutch  army  cannot  be  depended  upon  by  the  Directory,  and 
great  numbers  of  the  Inhabitants  are  proposed  to  join  with  the 
allies  in  the  effort  to  drive  out  the  French  and  restore  the  Prince 
of  Orange. 

A  most  extraordinary  change  was  on  the  point  of  taking  place 
a  few  weeks  ago  in  the  Politicks  of  Prussia  :  the  English  and 
Russian  Ambassadors  were  suddenly  sent  for  to  concert  with 
Prussia  a  Treaty  for  the  purpose  of  effecting  by  force  the  rein- 
statement of  the  Prince  of  Orange.     The  negotiation  proceeded 


100  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

with  the  greatest  rapidity,  and  Mr.  Grenville  was  so  confident  of 
its  immediate  and  successful  conclusion,  that  his  dispatch  stated 
that  he  should  probably  sign  the  Treaty  before  a  return  Courier 
could  arrive  from  England.  The  day  after  the  date  of  this  dis- 
patch, the  Russian  Minister  informed  the  English  and  Russian 
Ambassadors  that  the  King  had  just  received  such  advices  from 
Paris,  as  authorized  the  expectation  that  the  restoration  of  the 
Prince  of  Orange  could  be  effected  by  negotiation  and  that  under 
these  circumstances  the  conclusion  of  the  proposed  Treaty  must 
be  postponed.  This  versatility  has  excited  the  greatest  dissatis- 
faction ;  the  Prussian  Envoy  has  in  consequence  thereof  been 
ordered  to  leave  St.  Petersburgh,  and  no  one  would  be  astonished 
should  this  order  be  followed  by  a  Declaration  of  war.  Since  the 
surrender  of  the  Dutch  fleet,  the  North  Sea  Squadron  employed 
in  the  Blockade  of  the  Texel  has  returned  to  Yarmouth,  to  which 
place  the  Dutch  Fleet  will  probably  follow  it. 

The  combined  Fleet  still  remains  at  Brest ;  it  is  represented  to 
be  ill-manned,  and  otherwise  in  no  condition  to  meet  the  superior 
English  fleet  now  in  the  Channel. 

The  Rumour  gains  credit,  tho'  not  confirmed,  of  a  great  battle 
between  Suwarrow  and  Joubert,  Moreau's  successor  in  the  com- 
mand of  the  army  of  Italy  ;  in  which  Joubert  is  reported  to  have 
been  beaten  and  killed.  The  French  Papers  give  an  account 
of  late  actions  in  Switzerland  to  the  disadvantage  of  the  Austrians  ; 
and  there  is  considerable  anxiety  concerning  the  Army  of  the 
Arch  Duke  ;  but  unless  he  has  suffered  great  disasters,  the  arrival 
of  the  Russians  must  give  him  most  decided  superiority. 

Those  who  know  nothing  of  Cabinet  secrets  are  nevertheless 
able  to  see  that  there  is  a  manifest  want  of  union,  as  well  as  of 
confidence  in  the  news  of  the  allies  ;  Russia  and  England  prefer 
to  act  disinterestedly  and  to  desire  the  integrity  and  restoration 
of  the  Subverted  Governments  ;  Austria  on  the  other  hand  has 
organized  a  provisional  Government  over  her  late  conquests  in 
Italy,  including  therein  Tuscany  as  well  as  Piedmont  ;  and  it  is 
said  that  the  old  magistrates  and  Government  are  not  restored  in 
those  Cantons  of  Switzerland  from  which  the  French  have  been 
driven  out. 

Denmark,  tho'  hardly  pressed,  still  declines  entering  into  the 
Coalition.     Russia  has  declared  war  against  Spain. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  IOI 

We  hear  nothing  from  you  respecting  the  Commission  at  Phila- 
delphia ;  here  the  Commissioners  are  still  suspended. 

With  great  Esteem  &  Respect,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Sep.  7,  1799. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Before  this  reaches  you  the  Newspapers  will  have 
announced  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Davie  of  N.  Carolina  to  fill 
the  vacant  commission  of  P.  Henry.  The  Aurora  has  assured  us 
that  the  New  Envoys  will  sail  in  this  month  &  I  have  no  doubt 
the  President  has  given  orders  for  that  purpose — the  Aurora  tells 
lies  when  lies  will  do  mischief  but  it  will  faithfully  relate  the 
truth  when  the  truth  is  most  favorable  to  its  views.  Our  good 
men  all  have  been  incredulous  ;  they  would  not  admit  it  possible 
that  the  President  shou'd  persist  in  a  measure  so  flagrantly  incon- 
sistent with  the  general  policy,  with  his  own  uniform  declared 
sentiments  &  with  the  well  known  opinions  feelings  &  wishes  of 
all  the  best  friends  of  the  Country  including  T9oths  of  his  personal 
friends.  I  have  not  scrupled  to  express  freely  my  abhorrence  of 
the  measure  as  capable  of  doing  us  no  good  in  any  way  but  of 
exposing  us  to  the  most  serious  inconveniences  without  necessity 
&  without  apology.  Every  one  I  meet  expresses  an  apprehension 
that  the  jealousy  &  perhaps  the  resentment  of  the  coalesced 
powers  will  be  excited  to  a  degree  that  will  produce  new  irrita- 
tions &  increase  the  difficulty  of  adjusting  the  old  differences  : 
my  first  wish  is  to  see  the  demolition  of  the  cursed  ^system  of 
France,  but  I  begin  to  see  plainly  that  we  may  become  obnoxious 
to  her  enemies.  England  &  Russia  cannot  feel  complacent 
toward  us  when  they  see  us  officiously  tendering  our  friendship  to 
those  whom  we  detest,  whom  we  know  to  be  as  inimical  to  us  as 
to  them,  &  whose  humiliation  is  the  effect  of  their  valour.  They 
will  charge  us  with  basely  trafficking  for  their  blood,  which  has 
purchased  for  us  the  security,  tranquility  &  prosperity  we  enjoy. 

Sentiments  like  these  will  be  natural  &  will  enkindle  anger  if 
those  powers  are  unsuccessful,  &  insolence  if  successful.  While 
I  place  the  greatest  reliance  on  your  discerning  all  the  means  by 
which  such  embarrassments  may  be  alleviated  or  prevented,  I  am 


102  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

sensible  you  cannot  be  expected  to  use  them  with  success  if  there 
is  not  a  coincidence  of  Executive  policy.  Many  sensible  men 
expect  that  the  British  Govt  will  be  so  well  informed  of  the  true 
state  of  our  politicks  as  to  lay  no  stress  on  the  New  Embassy, 
justly  considering  it  as  the  unadvised  &  capricious  movement  of 
a  Simple  Individual,  &  that  it  will  produce  no  consequences  be- 
cause it  is  known  to  be  contrary  to  the  general  wish  of  the  Coun- 
try who  wish  sincerely  to  avoid  all  intercourse  with  France 
during  the  continuance  of  her  present  system. 

Your  affte  &  unfeigned  friend 

G.  C. 

R.  King  to  Colonel  McHenry. 

London,  Sept.  7,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  duly  received  your  letter  of  the  3rd.  of  July  respecting 
Count  Rumford.  We  have  had  some  conversation  upon  the  Sub- 
ject which  will  be  resumed.  I  however  conclude  from  what  has. 
already  passed  that  tho'  much  gratified  with  the  offer,  he  will 
wisely  decline  accepting.  I  shall  hereafter  send  you  a  more  exact 
report  upon  this  subject. 

The  Count's  letter  to  you  accompanying  the  Models  of  the 
Field  Piece  and  ammunition  Waggons  was  written  and  sent 
before  he  had  any  knowledge  of  the  subject  of  your  Letter  of 
the  3rd.  of  July.  I  hope  we  shall  not  be  disappointed  in  sending 
you  the  Boxes  which  contain  these  Models  by  the  General  Wash- 
ington, a  stout  ship  now  ready  to  sail  for  Philadelphia.* 
With  sincere  Respect  &  Esteem  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Count  Rumford. 

London,  Sept.  8,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  more  than  once  expressed  to  you  a  wish  that  you  might 

find  leisure  as  well  as  inclination  to  visit  your  native  country 

where  I  have  been  persuaded  that  you  will  meet  with  a  friendly 

and  cordial  reception,  and  by  your  presence  and  advice  might  be- 

*The  models  mentioned  had  been  presented  by  the  Count  to  the  U.  S.. 
Government. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  103 

of  great  advantage  to  our  public  Institutions,  the  establishment 
of  which  upon  approved  principles  is  an  object  of  the  highest 
consequence.  I  am  happy  that  it  is  in  my  power  to  assure  you, 
that  I  have  not  been  mistaken  in  these  sentiments,  and  it  affords 
me  peculiar  satisfaction  to  execute  the  orders  that  I  have  lately 
received  from  my  Government  to  invite  you  in  its  name  to  return 
and  reside  among  us,  and  to  propose  to  you  to  enter  into  the 
American  Service. 

In  the  course  of  the  last  year  we  have  made  provision  for  the 
Institution  of  a  Military  Academy,  and  we  wish  to  commit  its  for- 
mation to  your  Experience,  and  its  future  Government  to  your 
care.  It  is  not  necessary  on  this  occasion  to  send  you  a  detailed 
account  of  our  necessary  military  establishment,  which  indeed 
would  be  best  explained  by  a  reference  to  the  Laws  upon  which 
it  depends.  These  are  in  my  possession  and  shall  be  put  into 
your  hands,  if  you  desire  it.  In  addition  to  the  Superintendance 
of  the  Military  Academy,  I  am  authorized  to  offer  to  you  the 
appointment  of  Inspector  General  of  the  Artillery  of  the  United 
States  ;  and  we  shall  moreover  be  disposed  to  give  to  you  such 
rank  and  emoluments,  consistent  with  existing  Provisions,  and 
with  what  has  already  been  settled  upon  the  former  of  these 
Heads,  as  would  be  likely  to  afford  you  satisfaction  and  to  secure 
to  us  the  advantage  of  your  services. 

If  your  engagements  will  allow  of  your  entering  into  our  Ser- 
vice, which  I  sincerely  hope  may  be  the  case,  I  will  ask  the  favor 
of  you  to  take  an  early  opportunity  of  signifying  the  same  to  me, 
in  order  that  we  may  proceed  to  further  and  more  particular 
explanations  upon  the  Subject. 

With  the  greatest  consideration, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  52. 

London,  Sep.  n,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Herewith  *  I  send  you  Copies  of  a  Letter  that  I  lately  received 
from  Baron  Silverhjelm,  the    Swedish  Charge  d'affaires  at  this 

*  See  page  80  of  this  volume. 


104  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

Court  and  of  my  answer.  I  find  upon  Enquiry  that  the  Ameri- 
can Ships  against  which  this  complaint  is  exhibited,  were  going 
down  the  channel  on  their  passage  to  the  Ud.  States,  where  they 
have  probably  arrived. 

No  Event  of  importance  has  occurred  in  Holland  since  the 
surrender  of  the  Dutch  fleet.  The  Duke  of  York  has  departed 
with  large  Reinforcements  to  take  command.  The  first  division 
of  the  Russians  who  were  at  Yarmouth  a  few  days  ago  have  by 
this  time  joined  the  English,  and  other  divisions  are  hourly  ex- 
pected. We  have  no  accounts  of  any  considerable  Risings  among 
the  Dutch  in  favor  of  the  allies.  Probably  they  will  wait  until 
they  can  form  a  more  accurate  opinion  than  they  as  yet  can  do  of 
the  probable  Result  of  the  Invasion. 

The  News  Papers  will  give  you  the  Details  of  the  last  Battle  in 
Italy,  and  of  what  at  the  same  time  occurred  in  Switzerland. 

Parliament  are  unexpectedly  to  meet  on  the  24th.  instant.  It 
is  conjectured  that  this  has  become  necessary  in  order  to  author- 
ize the  Enlistment  of  a  greater  body  of  Militia  than  the  existing 
Laws  permit.  Prussia  has  peremptorily  refused  her  aid  in  favor 
of  the  Stadtholder  &  England  must  supply,  if  she  can,  what  she 
expected  from  that  quarter. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 

Count  Rumford  to  R.  King. 

Brompton,  Sept.  12,  1799. 
Dr  Sir  : 

I  am  to  acknowledge  the  rect.  of  your  Excellency's  most  flat- 
tering Letter  of  the  8th  inst,  the  perusal  of  which  has  filled  my 
mind  with  sentiments  much  more  easy  to  be  conceived  than  ex- 
pressed. I  am  deeply  sensible  of  the  honor  that  has  been  con- 
ferred upon  me  by  the  Govt  of  the  U.  States,  by  the  kind  invita- 
tion they  have  sent  me  to  come  &  reside  in  my  native  Country, 
and  also  by  the  other  distinguished  and  most  flattering  proofs  of 
their  confidence  and  esteem  with  which  that  invitation  has  been 
accompanied. 

Nothing  could  have  afforded  me  so  much  satisfaction  as  to  have 
had  it  in  my  power  to  have  given  to  my  liberal  and  generous 
countrymen  such  proofs  of  my  sentiments  as  would  in  the  most 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  105 

public  and  ostensible  manner  have  evinced  not  only  my  gratitude 
for  the  kind  attentions  I  have  received  from  them,  but  also  the 
ardent  desire  I  feel  to  assist  in  promoting  the  prosperity  of  my 
native  Country  ;  but  my  Engagements,  which  great  obligations 
have  rendered  sacred  and  inviolable,  put  it  out  of  my  power  to 
dispose  of  my  time  and  services  with  that  unreserved  freedom 
which  would  be  necessary  in  order  to  enable  me  to  accept  of 
those  generous  offers,  which  the  Executive  Govt,  of  the  U.  States 
has  been  pleased  to  propose  to  me.  But  tho'  it  is  not  in  my 
power  to  dissolve  those  ties  by  which  I  am  bound,  yet  I  have  no 
doubt  of  being  able  to  obtain  Permission  to  visit  America  ;  & 
should  that  permission  be  granted,  I  shall  take  an  early  opportu- 
nity of  crossing  the  Atlantic  in  order  to  pay  my  personal  respects 
to  the  President  of  the  United  States  and  to  return  him  my  thanks 
for  the  distinguished  honor  he  has  been  pleased  to  confer  on  me. 

I  cannot  finish  this  letter  without  requesting  that  you,  Sir, 
would  accept  my  best  acknowledgments  for  the  many  civilities  I 
have  received  from  you  and  more  especially  for  the  very  polite 
manner  in  which  you  have  been  so  good  as  to  communicate  to  me 
the  favorable  sentiments  of  the  Govt,  of  the  U.  States  with 
respect  to  me. 

With  the  sincere  wishes  for  the  Prosperity  of  the  U.  States,  I 

have  the  honor  to  be,  Sir,  &c,  &c. 

Rumford. 
His  Excellcy  Rufus  King. 


Count  Rumford  to  R.  King. 

Brompton,  Friday  Sept.  13,  1799. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

It  was  my  intention  to  have  called  on  you  this  morning  to 
thank  you  in  person  for  your  very  obliging  &  most  flattering  let- 
ter, and  to  have  consulted  with  you  respecting  the  answer  which 
it  would  be  proper  for  me  to  give  to  it  :  but  the  weather  turns  out 
so  bad,  that  I  am  afraid  in  the  present  state  of  my  health  to  go 
abroad.  .  .  .  With  the  most  sincere  regard  &  much  gratitude 
for  all  your  kindnesses,  I  am  &c. 

Most  faithfully  &  affectionately  yours, 

Rumford. 


106  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

R.  King  to  Mr.  Hammond. 

Mr.  King  presents  his  compts.  to  Mr.  Hammond  and  according 

to  his  Request  takes  the  liberty  to  send  him  enclosed  the  Draft  of 

the  proposed  additional  article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  Commerce 

and  Navigation  between  the  United  States  and  G.  Britain,  which 

Mr.  King  is  more  and  more  anxious  on  account  of  the  continued 

interruption  of  the  American  Trade  should  be  concluded  with 

the  least  possible  delay. 

Grt.  Cumbd.  Place,  14th  Sep.,  1799. 
Geo.  Hammond,  Esq. 

Explanatory  Article  to  be  Added  to  the  Treaty  of  Am- 
ity, Commerce  and  Navigation  Between  His  Britan- 
nic Majesty  and  the  U.  S.  of  America. 

Whereas  by  the  28th  article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  Commerce 
and  Navigation  between  his  Britannic  Majesty  and  the  United 
States  of  America,  signed  at  London  on  the  19th  day  of  Novem- 
ber 1794,  it  was  agreed  that  the  contracting  Parties,  from  time  to 
time  would  readily  treat  of  and  concerning  such  further  Articles 
as  might  be  proposed,  and  that  such  Articles,  after  having  been 
duly  ratified,  should  be  added  to  and  made  a  part  of  that  Treaty. 

And  whereas  Doubts  have  existed  whether  according  to  the 
just  interpretation  of  the  18th  Article  of  the  said  Treaty,  the 
Goods  and  Merchandize  hereinafter  mentioned  might  not  be  con- 
sidered as  included  within  its  Provisions,  and  treated  as  Contra- 
band of  war. 

And  as  it  is  expedient  that  the  Doubts  aforesaid  should  without 
delay  be  removed,  the  undersigned  being  respectively  named  by 
his  Britannic  Majesty  and  the  U.  S.  of  America,  their  Plenipoten- 
tiaries for  the  purpose  of  treating  of  and  concluding  such  articles 
as  may  be  proper  to  be  added  to  the  said  Treaty,  in  pursuance  of 
the  above  mentioned  stipulation,  and  having  communicated  to 
each  other  their  respective  full  Powers  have  agreed  and  concluded 
and  do  hereby  declare  that  Iron  in  flat  and  square  Bars,  Iron  nails 
of  less  than  four  inches  in  length,  Osnaburghs,  Ticklenburghs, 
Russia  sheeting,  and  all  other  Cloth  made  of  Hemp,  or  flax,  and 
not  generally  and  chiefly  used  for  the  Sails  of  Ships,  are  excepted 
from,  and  not  included  within  the  Provisions  of  the  said    18th 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  107 

Article  ;  and  that  none  of  the  said  Goods  and  Merchandize  shall 
be  considered  or  treated  as  contraband  of  war. 

This  explanatory  Article  when  the  same  shall  have  been  rati- 
fied by  his  BritannicMajesty  and  by  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  their  Senate,  and 
the  respective  Ratifications  mutually  exchanged,  shall  be  added 
to  and  make  a  part  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  Commerce  and  Navi- 
gation between  his  Britannic  Majesty  &  the  U.  S.  of  America, 
signed  at  London  on  the  19th  day  of  Nov.  1794,  and  shall  be  per- 
manently binding  upon  his  Majesty  and  the  United  States,  and 
upon  their  respective  Subjects  &  Citizens.  In  witness  whereof, 
&c.  &c. 


Count  Rumford  to  R.  King. 

Brompton,  14  Sept.,  1799. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  should  consider  it  as  a  particular  favor,  if  you  would  be  so 
kind  as  to  look  over  the  inclosed  Paper  &  make  such  alterations  as 
you  think  would  be  proper. 

You  will  easily  believe  that  I  must  be  uncommonly  anxious 
that  my  answer  to  your  kind  letter  of  the  8th  instant  should  be 
such  as  to  meet  with  the  entire  approbation  of  all  reasonable 
Persons. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  with  unfeigned  Esteem  &  Attachment  most 

faithfully  yours. 

Rumford. 


R.  King  to  Count  Rumford. 

1 

Mill  Hill,  Sept.  15,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  obliging  note  of  the   12th  with  the  Draft 

of  a  letter  that  you  propose  to  write  in  answer  to  mine  of  the  8th. 

With  the  exception  of  the  decision  that  your  engagements  have 

obliged  you  to  make,  I  see  nothing  to  correct  in  the  proposed 

Draft,  which  I  return  inclosed  with  the  assurance  of  the  sincere 

attachment  &  Esteem  of 

Dr  Sir  yr.  faithful  Servt. 

R.  K. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

King  to  Lord  Grenville — Impressment  of  an  American  Sailor  in  Lisbon  by  the 
Mermaid — Outrages  against  American  Citizens  in  Jamaica  by  British 
Officers — Strong  Demands  for  Redress — Cabot  to  King — The  President 
persists  in  sending  the  Envoys — Earnest  Efforts  to  prevent  it — Thinks  of 
the  Difficulties  to  King  in  Consequence  in  England — Hale  to  King — 
Anxiety  caused  by  the  President's  Policy  towards  France — Pleased  that 
King  is  in  England  at  this  Time — Cabot  to  King — The  President's  Course 
reprobated — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Argument  against  the  Impressment 
of  Seamen  and  other  international  Questions — Injurious  Acts  of  Sir  Hyde 
Parker — Earnest  Appeal  to  Lord  Grenville. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Sept.  14,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

It  is  my  duty  to  transmit  to  your  Lordship  the  enclosed  evi- 
dence of  the  injurious  conduct  of  R.  D.  Oliver,  Esq.,  Commander 
of  His  Majesty's  Ship  of  war,  the  Mermaid,  in  the  impressment  & 
detention  in  the  Port  of  Lisbon  of  John  Johnson,  a  seaman 
belonging  to  the  American  private  armed  ship  the  Samuel  Smith. 

John  Johnson,  by  birth  German,  regularly  entered  within  the 
United  States  on  board  the  Samuel  Smith,  and  engaged  to  pro- 
ceed in  her  to  Lisbon  &  from  thence  to  some  part  in  Asia  &  back 
to  the  United  States.  On  the  arrival  of  the  ship  at  Lisbon,  John- 
son being  sick  was  sent  by  his  Commander  to  the  Portuguese 
hospital  where  he  soon  recovered,  and  in  his  return  to  his  Duty 
on  board  the  Samuel  Smith,  was  seized  by  a  Press  Gang,  under- 
stood to  be  in  the  pay  of  the  British  Navy  Commissioner  at  Lisbon, 
and  carried  on  board  the  Mermaid,  whose  Commander  sent  him 
in  his  boat  accompanied  by  an  officer  on  board  the  Samuel  Smith 
to   demand   his   clothes,  where  the  Commander  of   the  Samuel 

108 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  IO9 

Smith,  as  he  had  an  undoubted  right  to  do,  detained  him  as  one 
of  his  crew. 

The  Commander  of  the  Mermaid  demanded  him  and  threat- 
ened to  employ  force  in  case  of  refusal.  This  failing  to  accom- 
plish his  views,  the  Commander  of  the  Mermaid  suggested  to  the 
American  Consul  at  Lisbon,  as  an  expedient  by  which  the  Disa- 
greement might  be  satisfactorily  settled,  that  Johnson  should  be 
sent  on  board  the  Mermaid  and  that  on  the  application  of  the 
Consul  he  would  immediately  return  him  on  board  the  Samuel 
Smith.  Upon  the  recommendation  of  the  Consul,  strengthened 
by  that  of  the  American  Minister  at  the  Court  of  Lisbon,  the 
Commander  of  the  Samuel  Smith  consented  to  the  Proposal. 
Johnson  was  accordingly  sent  on  board  the  Mermaid,  and  his 
return,  as  had  been  agreed,  was  demanded  by  the  Consul ;  but 
Captain  Oliver,  the  Commander  of  the  Mermaid,  refused  to 
return  him  on  the  evasive  Pretence  that  Johnson  preferred  to 
remain  on  board  the  Mermaid. 

The  injury  done  to  our  Navigation  in  this  violation  of  its  Rights 
is  too  manifest  to  demand  a  farther  elucidation,  and  I  natter 
myself  through  your  Lordship's  interference  it  will  receive  a 
prompt  and  adequate  satisfaction.  For  the  rest  I  permit  myself 
to  remark  that  Faith  and  Confidence  are  necessary  to  support  the 
mutually  beneficial  intercourse  that  subsists  between  friendly 
nations,  and  I  am  not  at  liberty  to  doubt  that  his  Majesty's 
Government  will  on  all  occasions  animadvert  in  a  suitable  and 
effectual  manner  upon  those  who  by  acting  under  color  of  his 
Majesty's  authority  in  violation  of  these  salutary  principles  shall 
expose  to  discredit  a  service  they  are  bound  in  duty  to  render 
respectable. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect,  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Sept.  16, 1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  received  the  orders  of  the  President  of  the  United 
States  of  America  to  represent  to  the  Government  of  his  Britan- 
nic  Majesty  the   Injury  done  to  the  said  United  States  in  the 


110  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

violence  and  cruelty  lately  committed  in  the  Island  of  Jamaica 
by  Lieutenant  Harris  (?)  &  certain  other  officers  of  his  Majesty's 
Ship  of  war,  the  Brunswick,  upon  the  Persons  of  Eliphalet  Lord, 
John  Edes,  and  Richard  Carter,  citizens  of  the  said  States  and 
then  engaged  in  the  prosecution  of  their  lawful  commerce.  The 
circumstances  of  this  extraordinary  affair  are  fully  detailed  in  the 
authentic  Proofs  that  have  been  transmitted  to  me  by  my  Govern- 
ment which  accompany  this  Representation.  They  are  such  as 
unfortunately  leave  no  room  to  doubt  the  enormity  of  the  offence; 
for  what  greater  offence  can  be  offered  by  one  nation  to  another 
than  the  seizure  of  their  citizens  in  order  to  degrade  and  disgrace 
them  with  stripes  ? 

I  suppress  the  Reflections  that  so  naturally  suggest  themselves 
on  this  occasion,  in  the  full  conviction  that  the  temperate,  though 
very  grave,  complaint  that  I  am  ordered  to  present  will  on  this 
occasion  engage  your  Lordship's  decided  interference  in  order 
that  Lieutenant  Harris  &  his  associates  in  addition  to  his  Majes- 
ty's Displeasure  may  receive  the  Punishment  due  to  those,  who 
suffer  themselves  to  become  the  deliberate  and  guilty  disturbers 
of  the  repose  of  nations. 

With  perfect  Consideration  and  Respect,  &c,  &c. 

R.  King. 


Geo.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Sept.  23,  1799. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

It  has  been  determined  long  since  by  the  President  that  the 
New  Envoys  shou'd  sail  early  in  Oct.  Infinite  pains  have  been 
taken  to  prevent  this  indiscreet  &  impolitic  step,  &  as  a  last  effort 
a  memorial  from  the  heads  of  Depts  shewing  the  inexpediency  of 
the  measure  was  transmitted  to  the  President  last  week,  the  effect 
of  which  is  unknown.  Shou'd  he  retract  now,  much  of  the  mis- 
chief wou'd  be  unrepaired;  the  ill  impression  on  the  allied  powers 
wou'd  remain  &  the  motives  for  our  change  wou'd  be  not  duly 
appreciated.  Meanwhile  our  friend  Ellsworth  is  in  great  distress 
&  finds  himself  in  toils  from  which  he  cannot  escape  :  his  early 
concern  to  meliorate  &  palliate  what  he  cou'd  not  altogether  pre- 
vent being  done,  led  him  to  suffer  his  name  to  be  used,  vainly 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  Ill 

trusting  that  the  business  wou'd  afterward  be  got  rid  of.  He 
thinks  he  cannot  now  withdraw  without  dishonor,  &  the  Federal- 
ists rely  upon  his  going  to  guard  against  the  worst  consequences. 
Shou'd  the  President  be  induced  to  give  up  his  projected  negoti- 
ations (of  which  I  have  no  great  expectation)  there  will  then  be 
a  little  time  in  which  attempts  may  be  made  by  some  frank  & 
friendly  explanations  to  remove  the  jealousies  he  entertains  of 
every  supporter  of  Govt — jealousies  which  are  as  unfounded  as 
they  are  ruinous  to  our  affairs.  But  who  is  to  be  the 
friendly  Monitor  that  shall  render  this  great  service  to  our 
Country  I  know  not.  I  have  long  sought  in  vain  to  find  the  man 
who  cou'd  do  it  properly,  but  they  are  all  suspected  persons. 
You  may  think  that  I  ought  to  perform  this  task.  I  have  been 
solicited  by  Great  Men  out  of  the  Govt,  as  well  as  some  that  are 
in  ;  I  needed  no  persuasion.  I  made  an  early  visit  for  the  sole 
purpose  of  reconciling  the  P.  to  his  real  friends  &,  what  might 
have  been  more  difficult,  to  himself.  I  was  treated  with  great 
kindness  &  hospitality,  but  every  heart  was  locked  &  every 
tongue  was  silenced  upon  all  topics  that  bore  affinity  to  those  which 
I  wished  to  touch.  Mr.  &  Mrs.  A.  were  the  only  persons  present 
a  part  of  the  time,  &  for  a  little  while  only  the  latter.  Our  friend 
Judge  Dana,  who  is  an  host  himself  &  who  has  made  immense 
exertions  of  the  best  kind  in  our  political  field  for  several  years, 
partakes  greatly  of  the  present  anxiety,  but  he  too  is  distanced  & 
can  not  be  heard.  Ellsworth  has  done  all  in  his  power  without 
success  &  goes  on  the  unpropitious  errand  against  his  will  &  in- 
clination, only  hoping  by  his  fortitude  &  attention  to  mitigate  its 
evils. 

Amidst  all  our  crosses  &  perplexities  I  think  of  the  difficulties 
which  must  be  created  by  them  for  you,  &  tho'  I  am  sure  you  will 
do  every  thing  which  can  be  done  to  preserve  good  humour  be- 
tween the  two  Countries  yet  I  cannot  but  fear  your  failure  at  last  ; 
the  increasing  power  of  G.  B.  &  the  decline  of  that  of  France  will 
weaken  the  motives  of  the  former  to  sacrifice  anything  to  the  God 
of  peace.  Our  immense  commerce  is  a  tempting  object  to  those 
whose  armed  ships  cover  the  seas  and  cou'd  so  easily  make  them 
a  prey.  I  am  persuaded  however  that  it  wou'd  be  a  false  calcula- 
tion for  the  interest  of  England  ;  after  the  annihilation  of  our 
commerce  we  shou'd  become  formidable  to  a  Nation  whose  prop- 


112  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

erty  wou'd  then  be  immense  on  the  Sea  &  whose  desires  must  be 
for  peace.  We  shou'd  be  then  at  sea  as  predatory  as  the  french 
have  been  on  land.  We  must  be  active  &  shall  certainly  fight  for 
money  if  we  are  not  left  to  the  safe  pursuits  of  industry.  It 
cannot  be  supposed  that  such  a  state  of  things  wou'd  not  greatly 
injure  the  Colonial  property,  &  produce  some  considerable 
inconvenience  to  trade  &  manufactures  at  home  :  it  wou'd  be 
doubtless  a  great  calamity  to  this  country  to  get  into  a  war  with 
England,  but  we  shou'd  soon  recover  from  it  ;  it  wou'd  be  more 
tolerable  to  them  while  it  lasted  but  its  ill  consequences  wou'd  be 
much  more  durable. 


God  bless  you 


Joseph  Hale  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  Sept.  30,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  general  aspect  of  our  interiour  is  pleasant,  so  far  at 
least  as  regards  a  perfect  submission  to,  &  apparent  acquiescence 
in,  the  laws  of  the  Union.  Our  infant  navy  is  daily  acquiring  new 
strength.  The  regiments  to  be  raised  will  probably  be  filled  & 
completely  organized  this  autumn.  But  the  inscrutable  policy  of 
our  government  as  relates  to  France,  with  the  independent  insu- 
lated attitude  of  a  certain  great  man  amongst  us,  excites  anxiety 
in  the  breasts  of  all  reflecting  men  for  the  great  interests  of  our 
nation.  Considering  the  past  conduct  of  France  toward  us  &her 
present  convulsive  state,  it  is  difficult  to  account  for  the  policy 
which  dictates  amicable  approaches  on  our  part.  Viewed  as  re- 
lates to  the  combined  powers,  the  solution  becomes  more  perplex- 
ing. The  duties  of  your  station  hitherto  would  have  discouraged 
any  man  of  ordinary  stamp.  The  additional  embarrassments  you 
may  have  to  contend  with  from  the  present  singular  position  of 
the  European  world,  our  relation  to  it,  &  their  misapprehension  of 
the  state  of  our  Country,  or  other  causes,  lead  us  all  to  repose  with 
confidence  on  your  tried  talents  &  virtues.  We  shoud  deem  it  a 
great  public  misfortune  were  you  to  withdraw  from  a  station  the 
increase  of  whose  duties  renders  the  actual  Minister  the  most 
qualified  of  any  other  to  discharge  them.  Few  indeed  are  the 
men  to  whom  I  should  thus  dare  to  express  myself.  A  mean  spirit 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  II3 


of  adulation  is  as  much  despised  by  me  as  I  am  ready  to  pay  a 
just  tribute  to  acknowledged  worth.  It  has  unfortunately  been 
too  much  the  practise  of  our  country  to  disregard  in  her  policy 
the  peculiar  delicate  situation  of  her  Ministers  at  foreign  courts. 
A  perseverance  in  that  course,  it  is  to  be  feared,  will  sooner  or 
later  deprive  us  of  the  services  of  men  of  merit  in  those  important 
offices  &  compel  us  to  rely  on  inexperience  or  intrigue  to  fill 
them. 

So  important  to  the  interests  of  both  countries  is  a  good  under- 
standing between  G.  B.  &  the  United  States,  that  we  hope  the 
former  will  not  be  induced  by  partial  consideration  to  pursue  a 
policy  tending  to  interrupt  it.  The  extensive  capture  of  our  ves- 
sels in  the  West  Indies,  the  admiralty  construction  relative  to 
Blockades  &  the  special  considerations  of  Sir  Wm  Scott  in  his 
able  decree  upon  the  Swedish  convoy,  have  created  a  jealousy  & 
excited  an  alarm  in  the  minds  of  respectable  men  amongst  us, 
which  if  not  removed  may  put  in  jeopardy  the  great  concerns  of 
both  nations.  It  is  hoped  G.  Britain  will  not  sully  the  great  repu- 
tation she  has  acquired,  by  wickedly  adopting  the  outrageous 
conduct  against  Neutrals  which  she  has  been  foremost  in  repro- 
bating when  assumed  by  France. 

As  to  the  state  of  Mass.  Gill  is  aiming  at  the  chair.  His 
military  talents  have  prompted  him  to  review  the  militia  through- 
out the  state.  It  is  thought  he  will  not  succeed  in  his  wishes. 
Judge  Dana  is  at  present  the  candidate  most  spoken  of ;  but  not 
most  appreciated  by  all. 

Your  most  obed.  Servt. 

Joseph  Hale. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Sunday,  Oct.  6,  1799. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Last  monday  the  President  set  off  for  Trenton,  his  departure 
was  unexpected  &  was  scarcely  known  until  he  had  performed 
half  his  journey  ;  this  sudden  movement  may  have  been  occa- 
sioned by  the  memorial  of  the  heads  of  Depts  which  I  informed 
you  in  my  last  had  been  sent  to  dissuade  him  from  sending  En- 
voys to  France.     It  is  this  day  announced  to  me  as  a  public  re- 

VOL.  III. — 8 


114  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

port  that  the  Mission  is  suspended.  I  hope  &  believe  it  is  so,  but 
how  much  happier  shou'd  I  have  been  if  it  had  never  been  pro- 
jected !  At  any  rate  it  gives  another  chance  for  the  President  to 
recover  himself  &to  recover  his  old  friends,  the  true  friends  of  the 
Country,  if  he  desires  it,  which  I  cannot  but  hope.  A  little  time 
will  unfold  his  views  &  discover  whether  he  persists  in  the  pitiful 
politicks  of  Gerry  or  relinquishes  them  ;  it  is  very  certain  that 
for  these  12  months  past  all  temporizing  feeble  politicks  have 
been  reprobated  by  y9otns  of  the  good  Federalists  &  by  a  good 
majority  of  the  people.  I  am  sure  the  nomination  of  the  Envoys 
has  given  great  uneasiness  to  most  of  our  thinking  men.  They 
have  not  seen  how  any  good  cou'd  come  of  it  &  they  have  appre- 
hended much  evil,  they  have  been  reserved  however  in  expressing 
their  sentiments  from  a  reluctance  to  wound  the  feelings  of  the 
President  or  to  indulge  a  spirit  of  discontent  which  they  condemn 
in  others.  For  my  own  part  I  doubted  what  course  shou'd  be 
pursued  ;  at  the  request  of  a  few  of  our  friends  I  wrote  half  a 
dozen  short  papers  for  the  press,  but  finally  did  not  publish  them. 
I  feared  they  might  irritate  &  prevent  conciliation.  As  I  know 
how  solicitous  you  must  be  to  be  well  informed  of  whatever 
passes  in  our  political  hemisphere  I  often  wish  to  pass  an  evening 
with  you  to  tell  you  all  I  know  &  all  I  think  ;  as  this  cannot  be, 
I  sometimes  have  resolved  to  write  you  the  most  copious  details 
of  our  domestic  politicks  ;  but  the  labor  discourages  me,  you 
know  my  insuperable  love  of  ease  &  therefore  will  never  expect 
an  equivalent  return  for  the  many  valuable  letters  with  which  you 
have  obliged  me. 

Col  Morton  on  a  visit  here  from  New  York  informs  me  our 
friend  Hamilton  manages  with  his  usual  superiority  of  skill  the 
difficult  affairs  of  the  Army.  Genl.  Pinckney  is  at  Newport  &  is 
coming  to  Boston  ;  I  shall  testify  my  esteem  of  his  worth  by 
breaking  from  my  Hermitage  to  visit  him. 

Yours  aff'y  &  faithfully 

I  have  read  with  great  pleasure  Sir  Wm.  Scott's  adjudication  in 
the  case  of  the  Swedish  Convoy. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  115 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Gt.  Cumb'd.  Place,  Oct.  7,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

The  peculiar  circumstances  of  two  nations  whose  language  & 
manners  are  the  same,  &  whose  maritime  ceconomy  does  not  differ, 
but  between  which  a  distinction  exists,  arising  from  the  practice 
of  impressing  seamen  in  one  country,  but  not  in  the  other,  has 
given  birth  to  a  case  of  great  importance,  and  one  that  requires 
the  establishment  of  special  regulations  for  the  security  of  their 
most  precious  Rights. 

A  concise  view  of  the  present  state  of  the  navigation  &  of  the 
interfering  claims  in  respect  to  the  seamen  of  the  U.  States  & 
G.  Britain  will  shew  the  importance  of  this  subject,  as  well  as  the 
impolicy  of  suffering  slight  objections  to  stand  in  the  way  of  a 
serious  effort  to  arrive  at  a  satisfactory   agreement  respecting  it. 

The  mercantile  tonnage  of  G.  Britain  is  estimated  at  one  mil- 
lion six  hundred  thousand  tons,  &  that  of  the  U.  States  at  nine 
hundred  thousand.  Whatever  may  be  the  number  of  seamen 
employed,  they  may  respectively  be  taken  to  be  in  the  proportion 
of  nine  to  sixteen  ;  so  that  of  every  twenty  five  seamen  in  the 
civil  employ  of  the  two  countries,  nine  are  in  the  American  service 
and  sixteen  in  the  British. 

Each  nation  desires  the  service  of  all  its  own  seamen,  and  each 
without  the  interference  of  the  other  is  free  to  employ  those  of 
any  third  power.  No  seaman  is  at  present  employed  in  the  pub- 
lic ships  of  war,  in  the  coasting  trade,  the  fisheries,  or  merchant 
service  of  the  U.  States  except  upon  his  voluntary  engagement. 
This  is  likewise  the  case  in  the  coasting  trade,  the  fisheries,  &  the 
merchant  service  of  G.  Britain,  but  not  in  the  Navy,  into  which 
service  all  British  seamen,  not  specially  exempted,  are  liable  to 
be  impressed. 

In  the  U.  States  no  alien  can  be  naturalized,  who  has  not 
resided  fourteen  years  within  their  territory,  a  term  nearly  equal 
to  the  average  life  of  a  seaman  ;  in  G.  Britain,  every  alien  who 
has  served  two  years  during  the  war  on  board  a  British  merchant- 
man, privateer,  or  man  of  war  is  thereby  ipso  facto  naturalized 
(13  Geo.  2,  Cap.  3). 

The  United  States  naturalize  aliens,  and  do  not  contest  the  same 
right  with   other  states  ;  G.  Britain  naturalizes  aliens   but  effec- 


Il6  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

tively  denies  this  right  to  other  states  by  reclaiming  her  subjects 
and  using  force  to  seize  them,  notwithstanding  such  naturaliza- 
tion. 

G.  Britain  refuses  to  restore  American  Citizens  upon  the 
demand  of  the  United  States  when  such  Citizens  have  been  nat- 
uralized, have  voluntarily  entered  the  navy,  or  married,  or  settled 
within  the  British  dominions  ;  at  the  same  time  that  she  denies 
the  sufficiency  of  all  these  reasons  when  preferred  in  favor  of  a 
British  subject  in  the  service  of  the  United  States. 

G.  Britain  considers  her  flag  to  be  a  protection  to  those  who 
sail  under  it ;  the  United  States  in  like  manner  ascribe  the  same 
protection  to  the  like  emblem  of  their  sovereignty  ;  but  the  naval 
officers  of  G.  Britain  visit  on  the  main  ocean  the  American  mer- 
chant ships  for  the  purpose  of  examining  their  crews,  &  of  im- 
pressing such  and  as  many  of  them  as  they  are  pleased  to  determine 
and  pronounce  not  to  be  American  Citizens. 

G.  Britain  relying  on  the  protection  of  her  flag  gives  no  certifi- 
cate of  citizenship  to  seamen  employed  in  any  branch  of  her 
service  ;  but  denying  that  the  like  protection  is  afforded  by  the 
American  flag,  she  requires  of  the  seamen  sailing  under  it  proof 
of  their  citizenship,  the  validity  of  which  is  often  contested  & 
sometimes  totally  disregarded,  tho'  possessing  the  form  prescribed 
by  the  Laws  of  the  Ud.  States.  Her  officers  even  go  further,  and 
impress  from  the  American  service  into  that  of  G.  Britain  persons 
who  are  confessedly  neither  English  nor  American. 

The  Treaty  of  amity,  Commerce  &  Navigation  between  the 
United  States  and  G.  Britain  provides  for  a  free  trade  &  inter- 
course between  the  two  countries,  and  mutually  pledges  the 
public  faith  in  the  security  of  those  engagements  in  the  same  ; 
but  the  American  seamen,  who  resort  to  the  British  ports  are  not- 
withstanding liable  to  be,  &  are,  daily  impressed  into  the  British 
service. 

By  the  same  treaty  each  nation  grants  to  the  other  the  privi- 
lege of  sending  Consuls  to  reside  in  their  respective  dominions, 
who  are  there  to  enjoy  all  the  rights  belonging  to  them  by  the 
Laws  of  Nations.  According  to  this  law,  Consuls  in  certain  cases 
administer  oaths,  and  grant  certificates  of  citizenship  ;  those  of 
the  United  States  within  the  British  dominion,  have  notwithstand- 
ing been  forbidden  to  administer  oaths  in  any  case,  or  to  grant 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  117 


certificates  of  Citizenship  to  American  seamen,  altho'  such  cer- 
tificates are  &  immemorially  have  been,  granted  by  the  Consuls  of 
other  Nations,  residing  in  G.  Britain,  and  altho'  the  Consuls  of 
G.  Britain  do  in  fact  administer  oaths  in  foreign  countries,  and 
those  residing  within  the  United  States  are  moreover  authorized 
(28,  Geo.  3,  cap.  68)  and  required  in  certain  cases  to  administer 
oaths  as  well  to  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  as  to  British 
Subjects. 

The  great  embarrassment  of  the  American  commerce  proceed- 
ing from  this  fruitful  source  of  disagreement,  joined  to  the  cases 
of  complaint  preferred  to  the  American  Govt,  by  its  citizens, 
whose  friends  and  relations  have  been  impressed  into  the  British 
service,  induced  the  President  of  the  U.  States  to  adopt  the  ex- 
pedient of  sending  agents  to  England  and  to  the  British  Islands 
in  the  West  Indies  for  the  relief  and  protection  of  American 
seamen. 

Your  Lordship  will  doubtless  recollect  the  arrangement  agreed 
upon  for  the  establishment  of  a  direct  correspondence  upon  this 
subject  between  Majr.  Lenox,  the  agent  sent  to  England  &  Mr. 
Nepean,  the  Secretary  of  the  Lords  Commissioners  of  the  Ad- 
miralty. Considerable  advantage  to  our  seamen  has  arisen  from 
this  agency,  and  it  would  be  uncandid  not  to  allow  that  Mr. 
Nepean  has  given  great  attention  to  the  numerous  applications 
of  Majr.  Lenox  &  that  a  disposition  has  existed  to  comply  with  our 
demands,  when  the  same  could  be  done  consistently  with  the 
maxims  &  practice  adopted  and  adhered  to  by  G.  Britain.  Col. 
Talbot,  the  agent  sent  to  the  West  Indies  addressed  himself  on 
his  arrival  in  the  most  respectful  manner  to  Adm.  Sir  Hyde  Par- 
ker, the  Commander  in  Chief  of  the  British  fleet  in  those  seas,  to 
whom  he  made  known  the  object  of  his  appointment,  with  ex- 
pectation of  being  able  to  concert  with  him  an  equitable  and 
convenient  plan,  by  which  upon  his  application,  the  American 
seamen  impressed  into  the  British  service  might  be  restored  to 
their  own  country. 

The  reception  experienced  by  Col.  Talbot  was  in  every  sense 
discouraging,  and  his  application  to  the  admiral  &  to  the  com- 
manders of  the  ships  under  his  command  failing  to  succeed,  he 
applied  to  the  Tribunals  of  Justice  in  Jamaica,  which  by  their 
writs  of  habeas  corpus  liberated  several  mariners,  detained  on 


Il8  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

board  the  British  fleet  &  tho'  attended  with  great  expense,  the 
whole  number,  or  the  greater  part  of  them  in  this  way  wd. 
probably  have  been  discharged,  had  not  Sir.  Hyde  Parker  refused 
and  given  orders  to  his  officers  to  refuse  obedience  to  the  process 
of  the  King's  Tribunals.  Perceiving  that  he  was  notable  through 
the  Tribunals  of  Justice,  or  an  application  to  the  Admiral,  supported 
by  proofs  that  had  been  pronounced  satisfactory  by  the  Court  of 
Law,  to  procure  the  further  release  of  our  seamen  from  the  fleet 
commanded  by  Adml.  Parker,  Col.  Talbot  was  ordered  to  return 
home  with  the  hope,  notwithstanding  his  failure,  that  a  sense  of 
common  justice  due  from  one  nation  to  another,  would  restrain 
the  future  impressment  of  our  citizens.  But  instead  of  greater 
moderation  in  this  respect,  which  Policy  as  well  as  Justice  at  this 
juncture  seemed  to  recommend,  the  vexations  of  our  seamen 
increased  in  the  American  seas,  &  to  such  a  degree  that  the 
President  was  prevailed  upon  to  make  another  effort,  and  to 
appoint  William  Savage  Esq.,  a  British  Subject  and  a  Magistrate 
of  the  Island  of  Jamaica,  to  be  our  agent  for  the  relief  &  protec- 
tion of  our  seamen,  frequenting  those  seas. 

This  gentleman  has  endeavoured,  but  with  even  less  success 
than  his  predecessor,  to  procure  the  discharge  of  our  seamen 
detained  in  the  fleet  under  the  command  of  Sir  H.  Parker.  On  a 
recent  occasion  he  addressed  a  letter  to  the  Admiral,  requesting 
the  discharge  of  several  American  seamen  personally  known  to 
be  so  by  the  commander  of  the  American  Sloop  of  war,  the 
Montezuma,  then  at  Jamaica,  &  who  applied  to  Mr.  Savage  to 
interfere  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  their  discharge.  To  this 
application  Sir  Hyde  Parker  reply'd  that  he  would  discharge  no 
person  from  the  fleet  under  his  command  upon  such  application, 
nor  upon  any  other  unless  made  from  the  Executive  Govt,  of  the 
United  States  thro'  the  British  Minister  in  America,  &  accom- 
panied with  the  necessary  documents  to  prove  that  the  persons 
whose  discharge  shd.  be  required,  are  natives  of  the  United 
States.* 

*  Copy. 
W.  Savage  to  Admiral  Parker. 

Kingston,  Sunday,  7  July,  1799. 
Sir: 

I  have  this  instant  reed,  a  letter  from  Capt.  Mullowny  of  the  United  States 
Sloop  of  War,  Montezuma,  requesting  me  to  apply  to  you  for  an  order  to  dis- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  II9 


This  answer  has  put  an  end  to  all  hope  of  benefit  from  the 
agency  of  Mr.  Savage,  and  in  other  respects  is  unsatisfactory,  as 
it  prescribes  a  mode  of  interference  for  the  relief  of  our  seamen, 
circuitous,  inconvenient,  &  for  obvious  reasons  unfit  to  be  em- 
ploy'd  ;  &  moreover,  by  direct  inference,  asserts  through  an 
officer  of  high  rank,  a  right  in  G.  Britain  to  take  out  of  our  ships, 
and  to  impress  into  her  service  all  foreign  seamen,  not  British 
Subjects,  nor  American  citizens,  and  also  all  American  citizens 
not  natives  of  the  United  States. 

It  is  by  the  express  orders  of  the  President  of  the  U.  States, 
that  I  am  required  to  make  this  representation  to  your  Lordship, 
and  to  complain  of  this  injurious  conduct  of  the  commander- 
in-chief,  Sir  Hyde  Parker  ;  the  correspondence  between  whom  & 
the  American  agent  (a  copy  of  which  is  herewith  transmitted  to 
your  Lordship)  establishes  the  precision  of  this  representation, 
and  at  the  same  time  demonstrates  the  haughty  injustice  of  that 
officer's  proceedings — proceedings  the  more  unaccountable  and 
extraordinary,  as  they  differ  from  what  in  similar  cases  passes 
before  the  eyes  &  under  the  immediate  authority  of  the  Lords 
Commrs.  of  the  Admiralty. 

But  it  is  not  alone  to  the  complaint  against  the  Commander-in- 
Chief,  Sir  H.  Parker,  that  we  desire  to  invite  your  Lordship's 

charge  Thos.  Gosman,  James  Nill,  Edd.  Traverse,  now  on  board  his  Majesty's 
Ship  Surprize.  These  men  are  personally  known  to  Cap.  Mullowny,  having 
formerly  sailed  with  him,  &  are  citizens  of  the  U.  States.  If  you  will 
extend  this  request  to  the  liberation  of  Asale  Harris  &  other  Americans  on 
board  the  Carnatic,  you  will  very  much  oblige,  Sir,  Yrs. 

(Signed)  Wm.  Savage,  Agent  for  the  U.  S.  A. 

Copy. 

Admiral  Parker  to  William  Savage. 

Admls.  Pen.,  7  July,  1799. 
Sir: 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  this  date  &  in  answer  thereto  have  to  acquaint 
you  that  I  cannot  upon  such  an  application  discharge  any  men  from  his 
Majesty's  service. 

Applications  made  from  the  Executive  Govt,  thro'  the  British  Minister  in 
Ama.,  accompany'd  by  the  necessary  documents  of  men  being  natural  born 
subjects  of  the  U.  S.  are  the  only  grounds  upon  which  I  think  myself  authorized 
to  discharge  men  of  the  above  description  from  his  Majesty's  service. 

I  am,  Sir,  yrs, 
(Signed)  H.  Parker. 


120  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

attention.  The  origin  of  this  complaint,  the  conflicting  claims  of 
the  two  countries,  in  regard  to  the  seamen  in  their  respective 
service,  continue  to  be  the  occasion  of  unceasing  injury  to  our 
citizens,  and  of  embarrassment  to  our  Government.  It  is  here 
that  your  Lordship  will  discover  &  I  persuade  myself  that  your 
justice  will  engage  you  to  concur  with  us  in  an  effort  to  correct 
an  Irregularity,  that  not  only  steadily  operates  to  the  discourage- 
ment and  disadvantage  of  our  navigation  &  commerce,  but  which 
wounds  the  most  important  Rights  as  well  as  the  Honor  of  a 
friendly  nation. 

Hitherto  the  United  States  have  put  forth  no  claim  on  their 
side  by  way  of  balance  to  these  of  G.  Britain.  This  moderation 
has  proceeded  from  an  earnest  desire  to  prevent  the  dissatisfac- 
tion that  would  arise  from  an  order  to  the  Ships  of  War  of  the 
United  States  to  pursue  the  same  practice  towards  the  seamen 
employed  in  the  navigation  of  G.  Britain,  as  her  ships  make  use 
of  towards  the  seamen  employed  in  the  navigation  of  the  United 
States,  as  well  as  from  the  constant  expectation  that  a  convention 
might  &  would  be  concluded  between  the  two  countries  by  which 
the  Rights  of  each  should  be  protected  &  secured  as  fully  as  the 
nature  of  those  Rights  would  admit. 

Difficulties  without  doubt  would  occur  in  devising  adequate  & 
convenient  Provisions  to  attain  the  object  of  the  just  expectations 
of  the  two  Countries  ;  but  without  trial,  have  we  sufficient  reason 
to  conclude,  with  a  spirit  of  moderation  on  both  sides  &  a  sincere 
desire  to  overcome  those  difficulties,  that  they  wd.  be  found  to  be 
insurmountable  ?  few  impediments,  my  Lord,  even  in  more 
difficult  affairs  have,  against  such  a  temper,  been  found  to  be  so. 

The  United  States  have  been  desirous  to  conclude  a  treaty  on 
this  important  subject,  and  early  in  the  present  war  invited  G. 
Britain  to  unite  with  them  in  a  patient  effort  for  this  purpose. 
Experience  has  since  shown  that  ex  parte  regulations,  instead  of 
affording  mutual  security,  are  the  occasion  of  mutual  dissatisfac- 
tion, and  there  seems  to  be  no  adequate  remedy  short  of  a 
Treaty. 

I  cannot  therefore  give  to  your  Lordship  a  more  satisfactory 
proof  of  the  sentiments  which  uniformly  &  on  all  occasions  have 
led  the  United  States  to  desire  an  uninterrupted  and  lasting 
Harmony   &   good  understanding  with  Great  Britain,  which  can 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  121 

only  be  maintained  in  their  greatest  strength  by  acts  of  reciprocal 
justice  &  convenience,  than  by  renewing  the  overture  and  asking 
your  Lordship's  high  &  merited  influence  with  his  Majesty's 
Govt,  to  cooperate  with  us  in  the  negotiation  of  a  treaty,  that  by 
ascertaining  &  securing  the  Rights  of  our  two  countries  in 
respect  to  their  seamen,  shall  increase  the  Harmony,  and  render 
safe  as  well  as  lasting  the  intercourse  between  them. 

With  the  most  distinguished  Considn  &  Respect 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER   IX. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Conference  with  Lord  Grenville  on  the  Withdrawal 
of  the  Commissioners  under  the  6th  Article — Lord  Grenville  in  one  of  the 
Conferences  said  that  the  U.  S.  in  publishing  its  Ministers'  Dispatches  must 
inspire  Caution  in  making  Communications  to  them — King  had  observed  a 
Coldness  towards  the  U.  S.  and  consequently  he  had  been  more  reserved 
also — Character  and  Principles  of  the  British  Government — States  his  Rea- 
sons and  gives  in  Cipher  the  Conversations  held  with  Lord  Grenville — King 
to  Secretary  of  State — Said  he  had  referred  to  an  explanatory  Article  to 
Lord  Grenville,  who  preferred  to  await  further  News — Admiral  Pringle's 
Proclamation  against  Whalers  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope — The  President 
to  Pickering — Explanatory  Article — Cabot  to  King — Mission  to  France 
suspended — It  will  be  difficult  to  recover  what  had  been  gained  in  public 
opinion — The  pecuniary  Troubles  in  G.  Britain  and  their  consequences — 
King  to  Secretary  of  State — Reverses  of  the  Allies — Bankruptcies  on  the 
Continent — Consuls  in  France  improperly  giving  irregular  consular  Papers 
to  Vessels  bought  in  France — Maryland  Bank  Mystery  and  Delay  in  Settle- 
ment. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  51. 

London,  Oct.  11,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  a  late  conference  with  Ld.  Grenville,  he  asked  me  if  I  had 
reed,  any  account  of  the  interruption  of  the  Commission  in 
Philada.,  and  upon  my  answer  in  the  negative  he  said  that  he  had 
by  the  last  Packet  received  information  that  the  American  Com- 
missioners had  withdrawn  from  the  Board,  that  such  withdrawing 
must  be  considered  as  a  Resignation,  and  he  proposed  instructing 
Mr.  Liston  to  apply  to  our  Govt,  to  appoint  other  persons  to 
succeed  them,  according  to  the  Provisions  of  the  Treaty.  I 
observed  that  tho'  I  was  not  authorized  to  say  anything  officially 
respecting  the  suspension  of  the  Commission,  I  had  reason  to 

122 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 23 

expect  by  the  next  packet  full  information  and  instructions  re- 
specting it,  and  without  pretending  to  judge  of  the  expediency  of 
the  measure  proposed  by  his  Lordship,  I  wd.  take  the  liberty  of 
saying  that  it  did  not  appear  to  me  likely  to  hasten  a  satisfactory 
termination  of  the  misunderstanding  that  had  taken  place,  and 
especially  if,  as  I  conjectured  to  be  the  case,  the  conduct  of  the 
American  Commissrs.  was  not  disapproved  by  their  Govt. 

Ld.  Grenville  reply 'd  certainly  the  approbation  of  their  conduct 
by  their  Govt,  would  very  much  alter  the  case,  and  after  a  con- 
versation at  some  length,  which,  without  an  intention  on  either 
side,  entered  into  the  discussion  of  several  of  the  controverted 
Points,  Ld.  Grlle.  said  he  wd.  defer  writing  to  Mr.  Liston  upon  the 
subject  until  I  should  receive  my  instructions  respecting  it.  From 
the  tenor  of  this  conference  we  may  anticipate  the  difficulties  to 
be  expected  in  a  further  negotiation,  &  which  the  course  of 
Events  may  increase  rather  than  lessen. 

I  annex  the  Copies  of  several  notes  which  I  have  lately  sent  to 
Ld.  Grenville  with  such  answers  as  I  have  received,  respecting 
the  Impressment  of  our  seamen.* 

With  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

P.  S.  In  one  of  my  earliest  conferences  with  Ld.  Grenville,  f  the 
conversation  turning  on  the  Publication  by  our  Govt,  of  the  dis- 
patches of  its  ministers,  his  Lordship  observed  that  the  practice 
must  inspire  caution  in  the  communications  that  were  made  to 
these  and  suggested  that  he  6°  /  might  find  it  convenient  to  ob- 
serve a  distinction  between  our  official  and  personal  conversations, 
&  the  first  might  be  exactly  repeated  but  the  second  shd.  be  con- 
sidered in  the  same  light  as  any  other  information,  &  in  that  sense 
might  assist  us  in  forming  our  respective  opinions. 

I  saw  no  objection  &  some  advantages  in  agreeing  to  this  sug- 
gestion, and  the  distinction  has  been  often  made  and  observed 
in  our  subsequent  cofiferences. 

For  some  months  past,  and  ever  since  the  news  of  another  mis- 
sion to  France,  I  have  observed  here  a  coldness  towards  the  U.  S.f 

*  September  14,   September  16,  and  October    7,    1799.      Lord    Grenville's 
answer  to  the  first  two  follows  this, 
f  Words  in  italics  in  cipher. 


124  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

an  indifference  to  their  affairs,  a  disposition  to  give  unfavorable 
interpretations  to  their  conduct,  and  in  my  ordinary  intercourse 
with  the  Govt.  I  have  met  with  more  difficulties  than  /  had  before 
been  accustomed  to  experience. 

Of  so  little  importance  has  it  been  thought  to  conceal  this  tem- 
per, which  increased  and  extended  itself  with  the  victories  <5r* 
success  of  the  allies,  that  for  some  time  /  have  thought  myself 
obliged  to  observe  a  reserve  on  my  part  corresponding  with  that 
practiced  towards  me ;  and  during  the  months  of  Aug.  &  Sept.  L 
did  not  see,  except  once  at  the  Levee,  and  had  little  or  no  inter- 
course zvith  Ld.  Grenville  or  any  of  his  colleagues. 

On  the  first  of  this  month  I  rec'd  a  note  from  his  Lordship, 
requesting,  in  the  usual  form,  to  see  me  at  Eleven  o'clock  the  next 
day  in  Cleveland  Row.  L  was  punctual  in  my  attendance,  and  you 
have  an  account  of  the  official  part  of  this  co7iference  in  a  letter  to 
which  this  serves  as  a  P.  S. 

But  after  much  consideration  and  a  faithful  comparison  of  the 
language  held  by  Ld.  Gr.  on  this  occasion,  as  well  with  the  par- 
allel opinions  that  /  have  heard  of  from  other  quarters,  as  with 
the  sentiments  contained  in  a  periodical  Publicatio7i  called  the  Anti- 
Jracobi7i  review,  a  work  that  uniformly  supports  &  is  said  to  be 
supported  by  the  Govt.,  I  have  believed  it  to  be  my  duty  to  send 
you  i7i  co7ifide7ice  for  the  information  of  the  Preside7it,  a  further 
report  containing  the  wiofficial  conversatio7i  that  passed  in  this 
conference,  and  I  am  the  more  disposed  to  do  so,  as  the  result  of 
a  close  observation  of  the  real  character  and  principles  of  this 
Govt.,  has  been  an  alteration  in  some  degree  of  the  opinions  that 
during  the  early  part  of  my  residence  here  L  had  formed  respect- 
ing the  Justness  and  Sincerity  of  its  Views  and  Professions  con- 
cerning our  Country. 

Ld.  Grle.  began  the  conference,  as  I  have  before  stated,  by  inti- 
mating his  i7itention  to  instruct  Mr.  Liston  to  require  of  our  Govt, 
to  appoint  other  co77i77iissioners  in  the  place  of  Messrs.  Pitzsimons  6° 
Sitgreavesj  and  upon  my  suggestion  that  tho'  I  had  no  such 
official  information,  it  was  not  improbable  that  the  co7iduct  of  the 
A7nerica7i  Co77ii7iissioners  was  approved  by  the  Govt.,  &  therefore 
that  the  proposed  instructions  would  not  be  likely  to  remove  the 
difficulties  &  disagree77ients  that  had  arisen  in  the  co7istruction  of 
the  Treaty,  his  Lordship  observed  with  less  moderation  than  usual, 


1799]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  I2C 


if  you  are  authorized,  Sir,  to  say  that  the  secession  of  your  Com- 
missrs.  was  by  order  of  your  Govt.,  certainly  the  subject  presents 
itself  in  a  quite  different  light.  I  have  no  doubt  of  the  fact,  my 
Lord,  but  as  I  have  already  said  I  have  no  regular  information 
upon  the  subject,  &  can  therefore  say  nothing  officially  respecting 
it,  except  that  I  am  informed  that  the  American  Commrs.  in  conse- 
quence of  a  disagree?nent  in  the  interpretation  of  the  6th  Article  of 
the  Treaty,  have  withdrawn  in  like  manner  as  the  English  Comn. 
last  year  seceded  in  consequence  of  a  disagreement  in  the  construc- 
tion of  the  yth  Art.  of  the  same  Treaty,  and  that  by  the  next 
Packet,  I  expect  exact  information  &  instructions  respecting  this 
affair  which  may  perhaps  become  the  subject  of  a  further  negoti- 
ation. Ever  since  Mr.  Jay's  arrival  here  we  have  pursued,  said 
Ld.  Grenville,  measures  of  conciliation  towards  the  U.  S.,  and  have 
cherished  a  disposition  to  overlook  every  unpleasant  occurrence 
we  met  with  ;  but  I  must  say  that  we  have  not  seen  a  like  temper 
6°  disposition  on  the  part  of  the  U.  S.,  and  it  is  easy  to  foresee 
that  the  spirit  of  conciliation  must  exhaust  itself.  I  am  told  con- 
tinued his  Ldshp.  that  Mr.  Jay  has  declared  that  he  had  no 
notion  of  such  a  construction  as  has  been  given  to  the  6th  Article, 
and  so  I  upon  oath  could  declare  that  the  ?th  Article  has  been  con- 
strued in  a  way  that  I  had  never  supposed  that  it  could  be  ;  but 
nothwithstanding  I  advised  his  Majesty  s  Govt,  to  acquiesce  in  the 
awards  6°  to  pay  the  money.  Mr.  J^ay  6°  /  endeavoured  to  agree  we 
found  it  impracticable.  I  believe  we  honestly  disagreed,  at  length 
however  we  concluded  the  6th  6°  yth  Articles,  by  which  the  sub- 
jects of  our  disagreement  are  submitted  to  arbitrators.  A  question 
arose  whether  their  decision  should  be  final  or  subject  to  the  confir- 
mation of  the  respective  Govmts.,  &  we  thought  it  would  be  most 
prudent  to  make  their  decisions  conclusive.  How  under  these 
circumstances  can  it  be  expected  that  we  shall  consent  to  begin  a 
new  negotiation  ?  However  just  there  would  be  no  advantage  in 
recrimination;  but  I  have  no  reserve  in  assuring  your  Lordship, 
whatever  may  have  been  the  disposition  of  Gr.  Britain,  that  one 
of  equal  sincerity  has  existed  in  the  U.  S.  to  maintain  the  most 
perfect  Harmony  6°  good  understanding  between  the  two  countries  j 
and  I  am  wholly  at  a  loss  to  conjecture  to  what  i&ctsyour  Ldshp. 
can  refer  as  evidence  of  a  different  temper.  In  respect  to  the 
interruption  of  the  Commission  at  Philada.,  I  might  content  myself 


126  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

with  observing  that  if  England  found  sufficient  reason  to  justify 
an  instruction  to  her  comtnrs.  to  secede,  she  cannot  think  it  extra- 
ordinary that  the  U.  S.  from  the  same  or  similar  reasons  have 
given  the  like  instruction  to  their  conim.  at  Philada.  But  exclusive 
of  this  observation,  what  passes  in  respect  to  ordinary  Arbitrations 
between  individuals,  which  differ  nothing  in  principle  from  those 
between  Nations,  teaches  us  that  matters  not  submitted,  or  sub- 
mitted with  limitations,  are  sometimes  attempted  to  be  drawn 
within  the  Arbitration,  or  to  be  decided  absolutely  and  without 
regard  to  the  conditions,  and  as  in  such  cases  Individuals  are  not 
bound  by  these  irregular  proceedings,  so  in  similar  circumstances, 
Nations  must  be  free  in  like  manner  to  refuse  their  acquiescence. 

/  think,  said  Ld.  G.,  I  could  show  a  distinction  between  what 
passed  here  ivith  respect  to  the  Commission  under  the  7th  Article,  & 
what  has  taken  place  at  Philada.  It  is  doubtless  true  that  Arbi- 
trators may  exceed  their  powers  but  I  cannot  conceal  from  you 
on  this  occasion,  that  an  opinion  exists  &  prevails  very  generally 
among  the  creditors  that  it  is  the  amount  of  the  Debts  and  not  any 
error  in  the  interpretation  of  the  article  that  is  the  real  cause  of  the 
embarrassment. 

I  am  convinced,  my  Lord,  that  no  opinion  can  be  more  errone- 
ous or  unjust.  I  know  the  integrity  of  my  own  Govt,  too  well  to 
suffer  the  smallest  doubt  on  this  Point.  No  sum,  however  much 
it  might  exceed  our  expectations,  that  could  be  awarded  upon  any 
just  interpretation  of  the  Treaty,  would  have  the  least  influence 
upon  our  Govt,  to  elude  its  payment  at  the  Expense  of  the  public 
Faith.  The  interruptio?i  of  the  Commission,  as  I  learn  through 
various  and  disinterested  channels,  has  proceeded  from  the 
extravagant  &  injurious  co?istruction  put  upon  the  Treaty  by  your 
Commissioners — a  construction  in  which  we  cannot  acquiesce  with- 
out humiliation,  nor  without  opening  a  discussion  respecting  our 
revolution,  that  was  unalterably  settled  at  the  Treaty  of  Peace. 
I  do  not  suggest,  said  Ld.  Grle.  that  your  Govt,  is  unfriendly  or 
unjust,  but  the  clamour  of  the  Debtors  and  the  dissatisfaction  pro- 
duced in  consequence  of  the  Law  for  granting  Protection  to  your 
seamen,  which  being  without  the  requisite  Provisions  for  the 
security  of  our  Rights,  the  protections  granted  under  it  have  not 
been  respected,  may  have  had  some  influence  upon  your  Govt. 
This  Law  has  excited  great  irritation  against  England. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  \2J 


I  must  confess,  my  Lord,  that  I  never  expected  that  the  Law 
alluded  to  would  be  cited  as  evidence  of  the  want  of  a  friendly 
disposition  towards  G.  Britain.,  because  I  have  considered  it  as 
a  singular  proof  of  an  opposite  temper.  When  &  why  was  this 
Law  passed  ?  Not  until  we  had  without  success  endeavored  to 
conclude  some  agreement  with  England  for  the  security  of  our 
seamen  ;  nor  then  but  with  sole  &  just  view  of  exempting  our 
citizens  from  an  injury  and  oppression  practiced  upon  the  People 
of  no  other  country. 

Here  a  servant  entered  and  announced  Monsr.  late  Count 
D'Artois.  Ld.  Gr.  immediately  rose  from  his  chair,  &  observing 
that  it  would  not  be  civil  to  keep  Monsieur  waiting,  asked  me  if  I 
would  call  upon  him  the  next  morning.  I  should  readily  have 
acquiesced,  had  I  not  thought  it  incorrect  that  a  conference  asked  by 
his  Lordship,  and  the  only  one  that  had  existed  for  several  months 
should  be  terminated  in  this  manner;  I  therefore  replied  that  I 
was  going  in  the  evening  to  my  house  in  the  country,  but  that  I 
would  return  in  the  morning  in  case  the  Tuesday  or  Wednesday 
following  would  not  be  equally  convenient  to  his  Ldshp.  He 
answered  that  Tuesday  would  be  the  same  as  tomorrow. 

/  attended  in  Cleveland  Row  on  Tuesday  at  eleven  o'clock.  It 
was  two  before  I  was  received  by  Ld.  Grlle.  During  the  time 
passed  in  the  ante-chamber,  Mr.  Pitt  6°  Mr.  Dundas  arrived  and 
had  conferences  with  his  Ldshp.  as  had  likewise  the  under  Secre- 
tary Hammond.  We  had  had  that  morning  a  Gazette  Extra,  with 
the  account  of  the  Duke  of  York's  success  in  Holland  on  the  2nd, 
but  there  was  a  gloom  on  the  faces  of  all  these  gentlemen,  that  ex- 
cited the  suspicion  that  bad  news  had  been  received  from  some 
quarter  that  more  than  balanced  the  success  in  Holland.  The 
arrival  of  the  Fretich  papers  a  day  or  two  afterwards  brought  us  the 
account  of  the  victories  of  Massena  in  Switzerland. 

Upon  being  admitted,  I  began  by  making  his  Lordship  my  compli- 
ments upon  the  news  from  Holland j  and  a  short  conversation  en- 
sued concerning  the  situation  of  that  country  ;  /  waited  for  his 
Lordship  to  recommence  the  conference,  which  he  did  by  saying  with 
less  stateliness  and  more  good  humour  than  were  shewn  in  the  con- 
ference of  the  2nd,  that  as  the  September  Packet  was  not  yet  arrived, 
we  had  no  further  accounts  from  Philada.,  and  until  we  had  he 
did  ?iot  see  that  anything  could  be  done  concerning  the  Commission. 


128  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

/  observed  that  on  recurring  to  my  last  advices  from  Philada.,  I 
found  that  I  had  no  official  account  of  the  interruption  of  the  Com- 
mission, &  that  my  letters  only  gave  me  reason  to  expect  informa- 
tion on  that  subject  by  the  Septemr.  Packet j  I  then  added  that 
since  I  had  seen  his  Ldp.  I  had  considered  with  great  attention  the 
import  of  certain  observations  that  he  had  delivered  in  our  last  con- 
ference, that  I  was  aware  the  conversation  between  us  had  not  been 
strictly  official,  and  it  was  in  this  sense  that  I  had  reflected  upon 
it,  and  the  Result  of  my  reflexions  had  been  the  thorough  con- 
viction not  only  of  the  error  but  of  the  injustice  of  those  observa- 
tions. 

It  was  to  two  precise  points  that  I  alluded,  one  that  the  Ameri- 
can Govt.,  from  weakness  or  want  of  inclination  did  not  manifest 
towards  England  the  same  friendly  disposition  that  since  the  arrival 
of  Mr.  Jay,  England  had  shewn  to  the  U.  S.  ;  and  the  other  that 
it  was  the  amount  of  the  Debts,  and  not  any  well  founded  objection 
to  the  principles  or  manner  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Commrs.  that 
had  occasioned  their  suspension.  I  proceeded  by  saying  that  I 
could  not  but  regret  that  these  sentiments  shd.  be  entertained  by 
any  one,  &  much  more  so  by  his  Lordship.  On  an  impartial  review 
of  the  avowed  principles  &  conduct  of  the  American  Govt,  since 
the  epoch  referred  to  by  his  Ldp,  I  was  constrained  to  say  if  they 
were  not  thought  to  be  satisfactory  evidence  of  a  disposition  to 
live  in  ha-nnony  and  friendship  with  England,  I  should  not  only 
despair  of  seeing  such  evidence,  but  I  felt  myself  in  candour 
obliged  to  avow  that  I  could  not  wish  to  see  it,  and  that  it  only 
surprised  me  that  any  one  who  possessed  the  means  of  under- 
standing the  political  situation  of  the  U.  S.,  should  entertain  a  mo- 
ment's doubt  on  this  point.  I  then  added  that  I  could  not  avoid 
feeling  the  Injury  of  his  Lordship's  observations  concerning  the  in- 
terruption of  the  Commission  at  Phila.,  as  it  imputed  to  our  Govt,  a 
want  of  sincerity  and  Integrity,  that  was  alike  refuted  by  the  great 
efforts  it  had  made  to  conclude  the  Treaty  with  Engd.  &  by  the 
good  faith  that  invariably  and  on  all  occasions  had  guided  its 
Discussions.  The  sum  at  its  greatest  estimate  &  under  the  most 
abusive  interpretations  of  the  Treaty  was  nothing,  when  weighed 
against  the  character  of  our  ?iation  j  We  know  the  value  0/ reputa- 
tion, and  were  we  not  restrained,  as  every  moral  society  ought  to 
be,  to  do  right  from  duty,  we  were  sufficiently  enlightened  to  do 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  129 


so  from  interest.  Besides  we  were  not  a  nation  surrounded  by- 
more  powerful  neighbours,  and  to  protect  ourselves  against  whom 
the  Devices  of  the  feeble  were  necessary.  On  the  contrary,  tho' 
not  as  numerous,  we  were  as  unassailable  and  secure  as  any  nation 
in  Europe  ;  and  knowing  our  real  Independence,  we  were  also 
awake  to  the  destinies  of  our  Country  and  influenced  by  the 
just  notions  of  national  honor  that  so  properly  belonged  to  our 
situation  and  prospects. 

What  were  the  chief  points  of  disagreement  between  the  Commis- 
sioners ?  The  Treaty  of  Peace  provides  that  creditors  on  either 
side  shall  meet  with  no  lawful  impediments  in  the  recovery  of 
their  Debts  ;  such  recovery  could  be  had  only  thro'  the  agency  of 
the  courts  :  complaints  were  made  on  the  one  side,  tho'  denied  on 
the  other,  that  notwithstanding  the  Treaty,  Debts  could  not  be 
recovered  by  reason  of  the  existence  of  lawful  impediments,  & 
without  reference  to  the  merits  of  these  complaints,  the  U.  S.  en- 
gaged in  the  last  Treaty  to  compensate  all  loss  and  damage  that 
had  arisen  by  lawful  impediments,  and  which  could  not,  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  Treaty,  be  recovered  by  the  agency  of  the 
Courts.  The  Engagement  is  conditional  and  the  U.  S.  are  not 
bound  for  any  Debt  that  at  the  conclusion  of  the  Treaty  could 
thro'  the  Courts  be  recovered  of  the  Debtor.  The  Course  of  pro- 
ceeding in  the  Execution  of  this  engagement  could  scarcely  be 
misunderstood.  Each  Creditor  in  preferring  his  case  to  the 
Commissrs.  is  required  to  shew  that  he  is  of  the  class  in  whose 
favor  the  4th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace  was  made,  that  with 
due  diligence  he  had  not  been  able  previous  to  the  last  Treaty,  to 
recover  his  Debt  by  reason  of  the  operation  of  lawful  impedi- 
ments, and  moreover  that  the  same  could  not  be  recovered  pos- 
terior to  that  Treaty. 

Instead  of  this  course  a  majority  of  the  Commissrs.  has  adopted 
certain  resolves,  enlarging  the  class  of  Persons  included  within  the 
Provisions  of  the  Treaty,  relieving  the  creditors  from  the  obliga- 
tion of  applying  to  the  Courts  of  Law  for  the  recovery  of  their 
Debts,  and  in  effect  giving  to  them  an  absolute,  in  the  place  of  a 
conditional,  Remedy  against  the  U.  S.  ;  a  construction  of  the  Treaty, 
not  only  incompatible  with  the  guards  and  cautions  that  should 
attend  the  examination  of  the  claims,  but  that  impeaches  the  Inde- 
pendence 6°  Purity  of  our  Tribunals.    We,  as  well  as  others,  desire 


VOL.  III.- 


130  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

to  preserve  the  Reputation  of  our  Judiciary.  What  was  your 
Ldshfts  language  in  a  case  by  no  means  so  strong,  but  that  was 
attended  by  circumstances  that  bore  an  analogy  to  the  present 
question  ?  Our  courts,  said  your  Lp.  on  the  occasion,  cannot  be 
presumed  to  be  incompetent  or  unwilling  to  do  justice  :  We  can- 
not consent  to  see  them  set  aside  or  discredited,  and  I  am  really  at 
a  loss,  added  your  Lordp.,  how  any  honest  man  upon  his  oath  can 
say,  when  the  experiment  has  not  been  made,  that  justice  cannot 
be  obtained  in  our  Tribunals.  1  added  that  I  knew  the  integrity 
of  the  Government  I  served.  I  had  been  the  witness  of  its  sincere 
Disposition  and  earnest  efforts  to  live  in  Harmony  with  Engd.  I 
had  long  believed  that  Harmony  6°  friendship  would  be  mutually 
advantageous,  and  that  I  had  come  to  Engd.  with  the  desire  of 
being  in  this  respect  useful  to  my  country.  But  if  the  sentiments 
that  I  had  been  controverting,  were  really  entertained  by  the  Eng. 
Governt.,  /  could  not  expect  to  see  much  good  will  or  good 
humour  between  the  tivo  countries,  and  we  should  I  feared  differ  so 
essentially  upon  the  cause  of  this  interruption  of  the  Commission 
at  Phila.,  that  there  would  be  but  little  prospect  of  a  satisfac- 
tory negotiation  upon  that  subject. 

Ld.  G.  whom  I  carefully  attended  to  while  I  delivered  these 
observations,  &  who  it  was  pretty  plain  was  not  prepared  to  re- 
ceive them,  after  making  some  attempt  to  discriminate  between  the 
Commission  here  6°  that  at  PhiVa  &  to  shew  against  all  reason 
that  the  courts  here  should  be  resorted  to,  but  that  such  course  was 
not  necessary  at  Philada.,  added  that  every  letter  he  had  seen 
agreed  in  the  opinion  that  it  was  the  sum  &  not  the  co?istruction  of 
the  treaty  that  constituted  the  embarrassment. 

/  replied  that  the  Claimants  would  doubtless  send  over  exagger- 
ated reports  &  false  opinions,  and  those  of  them  who  had  the 
least  pretensions  to  complain,  would  probably  complain  the 
loudest ;  that  if  my  Govt,  had  formed  its  opinion  of  the  Court  of 
Appeals  from  Letters  sent  from  this  country  respecting  the 
American  Claims,  depending  for  these  six  years  before  that 
Court,  it  would  not  be  much  in  favor  of  its  competency  or 
Justice. 

Ld.  G.  said  a  new  negotiation  would  be  extremely  difficult,  as 
the  creditors  thought  they  had  tried  their  cases  and  obtained  a 
decision  in  their  favor  :  that  if  all  the  Commissioners  were  changed. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  131 


still  the  new  ones  would  have  before  them  the   decisions  of  their 
predecessors. 

I  answered  that  this  was  a  consequence  of  an  erroneous  mode 
of  proceeding.  Ld.  G.  said  he  certainly  wished  the  business  had 
been  done  in  another  manner. 

The  conversation  being  at  a  stand,  /  observed  that  I  must  say 
something  to  you  by  the  Packet  that  was  soon  to  sail,  but  thai  I 
could  write  nothing  decisive  upon  the  subject  of  our  Conference. 
His  Lp.  said  that  he  should  defer  writing  to  Mr.  Liston  until  the 
arrival  of  the  next  Packet,  in  expectation  that  she  would  bring 
my  instructions.  If  nothing  cou'd  be  agreed  between  me  6°  him, 
he  should  then  instruct  Mr.  Liston  to  make  such  representations 
to  our  Govt,  as  the  occasion  called  for.  They  had  given  up  the 
pledge  they  held  for  the  fulfillment  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace,  and 
they  must  consider  the  non-performance  of  the  last  Treaty  o?i  our 
part  as  a  breach  of  Faith. 

His  Ldp.  having  again  adverted  to  the  friendly  disposition  of 
Engd.  towards  the  U.  S.,  I  took  occasion  to  remark  that  it  was 
not  my  intention  to  make  a  formal  complaint  against  the  last 
number  of  the  Anti-Jacobin  Review,  but  I  could  not  avoid  re- 
questing His  Ldp.  to  read  what  is  there  called  the  Summary  of 
Politics  ;  adding  that  the  Invective  was  not  only  offensive  to  our 
Govt.,  but  that  it  contained  assertions  that  were  both  false  and 
injurious  to  the  Harmony  of  the  two  countries.  His  Ldp.  replied 
that  he  would  certainly  read  it. 

Tho'  I  think  it  likely  you  may  procure  the  Anti- Jacobin  Review 
for  September  from  Cobbett,  the  Printer  of  Porcupine's  Gazette,  I 
nevertheless  send  you  that  part  of  the  number  that  is  called,  the 
Summary  of  Politics.  I  think  I  am  not  mistaken  in  believing 
that  a  principal  part  of  the  information  of  the  Editors  of  this 
Publication  is  derived  from  the  Editor  of  Porcupine's  Gazette,  a 
Paper  that  I  have  been  often  mortified  to  observe  is  here  con- 
sidered as  the  most  authentic  source  of  information  respecting 
the  United  States. 


132  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

R.  King  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  52. 

London,  Oct.  14,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  omitted  in  my  last  to  inform  you  that  at  the  close  of  the  Con- 
ference with  Lord  Grenville  concerning  the  Commission  at 
Philada.,  I  mentioned  the  explanatory  article  respecting  Contra- 
band, and  repeated  what  I  had  so  frequently  before  urged  in  favor 
of  its  conclusion.  His  Lordship  replied  that  there  was  not  any 
disagreement  in  our  opinions  on  that  subject,  but  at  present, 
alluding  without  doubt  to  the  interruption  of  the  two  commis- 
sions, it  wd.  be  adviseable  to  defer  the  conclusion  of  the  pro- 
posed article. 

It  was  more  than  three  months  since  I  had  complained  of  the 
Proclamation  of  Admiral  Pringle,  forbidding  the  whalemen  to 
take  whales  upon  the  coasts  of  the  Colony  of  the  Cape  of  Good 
Hope.  I  asked  if  the  Proclamation,  a  copy  of  which  I  had 
delivered  to  his  Lordship,  was  genuine,  and  whether  orders  had 
been  sent  to  correct  the  error  into  which  the  Admiral  had  fallen. 
His  Lordship  answered  that  the  Proclamation  was  genuine,  and 
that  he  had  given  directions  for  an  enquiry  into  the  usage  & 
practice  of  the  Dutch  Government,  observing  that  having  acquired 
what  the  Dutch  possessed,  their  usage  &  practice  must  become  the 
Standard  of  the  Rights  of  England.  I  then  inquired  what  was  the 
situation  of  the  agreement  made  with  Toussaint,  and  mentioned 
the  capture  of  our  vessels  by  Sir  Hyde  Parker's  Squadron.  He 
said  that  the  agreement  was,  as  he  understood,  in  the  course  of 
Execution  &  that  the  Letter  of  Mr.  Liston  to  Sir  H.  Parker  wd. 
he  hoped  be  sufficient  to  correct  the  mistaken  interpretation  that 
the  Admiral  had  adopted. 

The  French  Papers  just  reed,  contain  accounts  of  a  series  of 
Battles,  in  which  Massena,  according  to  the  report,  has  nearly 
destroyed  the  Austrian  and  Russian  armies  in  Switzerland.  If 
these  victories  are  as  decisive  as  the  French  papers  represent  them, 
they  may  &  probably  will  give  an  active  turn  to  the  campaign,  & 
its  conclusion  may  be  as  disastrous  as  its  commencement  has  been 
glorious  to  the  Allies. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 33 

No  farther  accounts  are  received  from  Holland  since  the  affair 
of  the  2nd.  More  troops  are  about  embarking  to  join  the  Duke's 
army.  The  public  expectation  from  this  Expedition  are  much 
lowered,  and  the  late  French  news  will  still  more  deeply  depress 
the  hopes  of  success.  With  perfect  Respect,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

It  was  probably  in  consequence  of  these  letters,  that  Mr. 
Adams  wrote  to  the  Secretary  of  State  the  following  letter, 
which,  though  of  later  date,  is,  with  the  extract  from  Gibbs's 
Administration  of  John  Adams,  vol.  ii.,  306,*  explanatory 
of  the  steps  that  were  taken  in  coming  to  a  decision  relative 
to  the  difficulties  which  arose  in  the  commission  under  the 
6th  Article  of  the  Treaty. 

*  By  Mr.  Gibbs  we  are  told  that  these  matters  had  been  discussed  at  a  Cabinet 
meeting  on  November  13th  and  14th  ;  Mr.  Wolcott,  Secretary  of  the  Treasury, 
recommended,  that  a  copy  of  every  paper  exchanged  between  the  Commissioners, 
with  the  letter  of  the  Attorney-General  to  the  President,  and  a  copy  of  the 
Journal  of  the  Board,  should  be  immediately  sent  to  Mr.  King  ;  that  a  paper 
should  be  prepared  and  sent  to  him  stating  the  objections  of  the  American 
Government  to  the  principles  assumed  by  the  majority,  distinguishing  some 
which  are  doubtful,  and  such  as  are  expedient,  from  those  which  the  American 
Government  will  resist  at  all  hazards  ;  that  Mr.  King  be  required  to  press  the 
adoption  of  an  explanatory  article  or  a  system  of  instructions  to  the  board  and, 
in  case  of  success,  to  propose  a  new  board  chosen  as  the  old  one  had  been, 
with  one  eminent  British  subject  as  an  umpire. 

He  also  states  that  a  report  on  this  subject  was  made  to  the  President  on  nth 
December.  Mr.  Gibbs  says  :  "  On  the  19th  of  December  Mr.  Lee's  explana- 
tory letter  and"  project  were  transmitted  to  Mr.  King."  Mr.  King  endeavoured, 
as  this  correspondence  shows,  to  act  upon  the  plan  above  suggested,  but  finding 
great  difficulties  in  making  a  settlement  this  way,  was  finally  authorized  to  meet 
a  proposition,  by  which  the  United  States  should  settle  all  the  claims  for  a  stipu- 
lated sum.  Upon  this  principle  a  convention  was  signed  by  Lord  Hawksbury 
and  the  American  Minister  in  January,  1802,  the  United  States  paying  600,000 
pounds  sterling,  in  three  equal  and  annual  payments  ;  and  the  commissioners 
under  the  7th  Article  resuming  their  sessions  in  London,  their  work  was 
finished  satisfactorily  in  1804. 


134  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

J.  Adams  to  T.  Pickering,  Secretary  of  State.* 

Philadelphia,  Dec.  7,  1799. 

The  Attorney  General  has  left  with  me,  and  I  now  send  to  you 
a  project  of  an  explanatory  article  or  treaty,  and  a  project  of  a 
letter  to  Mr.  King,  desiring  an  ultimatum.  There  is  no  business 
before  the  government,  at  this  time,  of  more  importance  than  this 
and  I  pray  you  to  turn  your  attention  to  it  and  prepare  a  draught 
of  a  letter  to  Mr.  King,  to  be  considered,  if  possible,  on  Monday 
evening  at  six  o'clock  at  my  chamber,  where  I  ask  the  favor  of 
your  company,  with  all  the  heads  of  departments. 


Geo.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Oct.  16,  1799. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

The  mission  to  France  is  suspended  never  to  be  revived  I 
hope  ;  this  gives  general  joy,  but  how  shall  our  Govt,  recover  its- 
lost  reputation  ?  It  can  never  get  rid  of  the  imputation  of  weak- 
ness, inconsistency  &  dishonor.  I  wish  this  disgrace  may  be  all,, 
but  I  fear  more.  A  man  who  forfeits  the  good  opinion  of  the 
wise  &  the  good  imposes  upon  himself  the  necessity  of  accommo- 
dating himself  a  little  more  to  men  of  an  opposite  character  ;  he 
places  himself  in  a  situation  which  men  of  sense  &  principle  dis- 
approve :  his  pride  forbids  him  to  relinquish  it  &  he  flies  for  sup- 
port to  those  who  will  give  it.  I  shall  be  happy  if  this  is  not 
exemplified. 

Altho  we  cannot  get  back  to  the  envied  position  in  which  we 
stood  12  months  ago  we  may  get  part  way  ;  or  at  any  rate  we 
may  travel  no  further  in  an  opposite  direction.  Nothing  can  be 
more  mortifying  than  the  reflection  that  after  the  unwearied 
labors  of  good  men  had  brought  our  Country  to  a  just  way  of 
thinking,  its  best  hopes  have  been  blasted  by  one  act  of  folly.  I 
shall  not  be  surprised  to  see  an  appeal  made  to  every  popular 
prejudice  &  especially  the  inexhaustible  one  of  animosity  to  the 
English.  It  will  be  so  easy  to  cover  this  with  a  patriotic  garb 
&  there  is  so  much  of  the  reality  of  jealousy  &  prejudice  on  this 
point  in  the  breast  of  the that  it  can  not  fail  to  be  used.     Un- 

*  J.  Adams's  Life,  in  vol.  ix.,  p.  42,  relative  to  the  6th  Article. 


1 7 99 J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  135 


der  an  affected  independency  of  sentiment  &  with  a  desire  to  keep 
the  nation  clear  of  foreign  bias  a  great  many  things  may  be  said 
which  tho'  abstractedly  true  yet  as  they  will  be  applied  may  be 
extremely  pernicious.  Nothing  wou'd  be  more  easy  than  to  form 
a  commanding  party  in  this  way  which  shou'd  consist  of  all  the 
Jacobins  &  many  weak  half-formed  &  half-informed  Federalists. 
I  hope  it  will  not  happen  but  until  I  see  decisive  measures  of  a 
contrary  character  I  shall  be  full  of  fears.  You  have  a  great  & 
difficult  part  to  act  &  I  know  you  will  merit  success  but  you  may 
fail  nevertheless.  The  pecuniary  affairs  of  G.  B.  are  in  a  state 
that  I  do  not  perfectly  approve  :  their  means  are  ample  but  it  is 
an  operation  of  immense  difficulty  to  draw  from  the  people  30 
millions  annually  to  pay  to  Individuals  ;  the  machinery  requisite  for 
such  a  purpose  must  be  very  powerful  &  its  management  delicate. 
If  I  understand  the  effect  of  their  arrangements  with  the  Bank  it 
is  now  a  paper  system  whose  equivalence  to  Gold  &  Silver  is  sup- 
ported in  spite  of  a  contrary  tendency  :  but  true  principles  only 
will  remain,  the  laws  of  nature  must  prevail  &  Gold  &  Silver 
must  be  actually  demandable  for  Bank  Notes  or  the  Metals  cease 
to  be  the  measure  of  Value  &  will  be  abandoned  as  such.  You 
know  more  of  all  this  than  I  can  see  here,  perhaps  you  have 
already  estimated  the  consequences  of  a  state  of  things  which 
may  happen  in  G.  B.  There  are  those  who  apprehend  that  a 
great  crisis  approaches  in  which  the  Financial  powers  must  be 
renovated  &  that  in  the  paroxisms  which  the  nation  will  expe- 
rience they  will  find  it  difficult  to  keep  at  home  their  Commer- 
cial &  Manufacturing  Capitals,  their  Skill  &  their  industry  &  that 
to  prevent  their  emigration  to  this  Country  an  open  Rupture  will 
be  necessary.  These  ideas  are  profound,  they  are  however  a 
little  too  refined,  I  hope,  to  be  just  ;  I  will  not  trouble  you  with 
all  my  conjectures  on  this  subject.  I  received  a  few  days  ago  an 
excellent  letter  from  Gore  dated  July  27 — it  is  full  of  good  sense 
&  written  in  his  agreeable  manner  but  I  don't  entirely  agree  with 
him  in  his  comparative  view  of  talents.  There  is  7nore  solid  sober 
sense  among  the  Bull  Calves  &  something  less  among  the  Baboon 
the  Tyger-Monkeys  than  he  admits.  I  have  always  thought 
English  Greatness  was  better  seen  abroad  &  French  at  home — 
but  enough.     God  bless  you. 


I36  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  53. 

London,  Oct.  21,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

If  we  credit  the  French  accounts  the  Allies  have  been  entirely- 
driven  out  of  Switzerland  with  the  loss  of  30,000  men  since  the 
24th  of  September.  There  may  be  some  exaggeration  in  these 
reports,  but  it  cannot  be  concealed  that  the  Allies  have  been 
forced  in  all  their  positions  in  Switzerland,  and  that  their  loss  has 
not  only  been  severe,  but  such  as  must  apparently  decide  the 
issue  of  the  campaign  upon  the  Northern  &  Eastern  Frontiers  of 
France. 

The  Eng.  &  Russian  army  is  to  be  withdrawn  from  Holland, 
where  it  has  lost  upwards  of  10,000  men,  without  any  material 
co-operation  or  risings  of  the  Dutch.  Some  concern  exists  upon 
the  subject  of  its  retreat,  but  if  the  country  in  its  front  can  be 
inundated,  it  may  re-embark  without  molestation. 

A  Message  of  the  Directory  to  the  Councils  of  the  14th  inst. 
announces  the  extraordinary  event  of  the  arrival  of  Buonaparte 
at  Frejus,  with  Berthier  &  several  other  of  his  Generals,  who  are 
stated  to  have  left  the  army  of  Egypt  in  the  most  satisfactory 
situation. 

This  Country  will  suffer  exceedingly  from  the  badness  of  its 
corn  Harvest,  wh.  has  been  very  much  injured  by  the  rains  that 
have  continued  without  intermission  for  the  last  two  months.  It 
is  apprehended  that  no  considerable  succour  can  be  obtained 
from  the  north  of  Europe,  where,  from  the  same  cause,  there  is 
likely  to  be  a  failure  of  crops.  Bread  is  already  at  two  prices  & 
it  is  believed  that  it  must  be  still  dearer.  The  ports  are  opened 
to  the  importation  of  corn,  flour  &  meal,  and  are  to  continue 
open  until  the  30th  Sept.  next. 

The  great  Bankruptcies  that  commenced  at  Hamburgh,  are  ex- 
tending to  Altona,  Copenhagen,  Amsterdam,  Rotterdam,  and 
some  of  the  large  towns  of  Germany,  &  notwithstanding  the  aids 
of  the  Bank,  and  even  of  Parliament,  it  is  feared  that  Capital  fail- 
ures will  happen  in  London,  and  other  great  commercial  towns  of 
this  country.  From  an  intimate  &  extensive  connection  with 
Hamburgh  &  London,  as  well  as  from  the  great  fall  in  the  W. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 37 


India  Produce,  I  am  apprehensive  that  we  also  shall  be  sufferers 
to  a  very  great  extent. 

Immediately  after  the  rect.  of  your  No.  60,  Major  Lenox  ap- 
ply'd  for  the  discharge  of  Thos.  Jervey  of  So.  Carolina,  whose 
case  had  been  recommended  to  you  by  C.  L.  Rea  of  the  Senate,  & 
was  answered,  as  he  had  before  been  upon  a  former  application, 
that  Jervey  having  voluntarily  entered  on  board  the  Edgar  and 
reed,  the  King's  bounty,  coud.  not  be  discharged. 

Several  of  our  vessels  captured  in  coming  out  of  the  Texel,  as 
well  as  the  Maes,  have  been  condemned  in  the  High  Court  of 
Admiralty  for  breach  of  Blockade  ;  and  three  or  four  lately  cap- 
tured in  their  passage  from  France  to  the  U.  S.  will  soon  receive 
their  trials.  These  expeditions,  upon  the  notion  of  a  dispensing 
power  in  the  President  in  individual  cases,  are  encouraged  by  our 
Consuls  in  France  and  particularly  by  Mr.  Barnet  of  Bordeaux, 
who,  as  has  improperly  been  the  general  practice  of  our  Consuls 
in  that  Country,  has  no  scruples  in  delivering  to  vessels,  purchased 
by  Amers.  in  France,  consular  papers  in  imitation  of  Amern. 
Register  Sea  Letters,  and  other  Documents  which  ought  not  to 
be  issued  by  any  officer  without  the  limits  of  the  U.  S.  These 
fraudulent  proceedings  mislead  our  citizens,  &  throw  suspicion 
upon  the  regular  ship's  papers  issued  from  the  proper  &  compe- 
tent offices. 

It  was  a  similar  irregularity  practiced  by  Barlow  &  Cathelan 
that  brought  upon  us  the  claims  of  the  Baceres  of  Algiers  in  the 
case  of  the  Fortune.  Would  it  not  be  adviseable  to  instruct 
these  Consuls  to  abstain  from  this  improper  Practice  ? 

I  have  received  your  letter  with  Mr.  Chase's  Note  concerning 
the  Maryland  Bank  Stock,  &  am  very  much  at  a  loss  in  determin- 
ing what  sort  of  a  Reply  I  can  in  prudence  make  to  it.  On  the 
one  hand  I  still  entertain  hopes  by  the  means  that  I  have  em- 
ployed, &  which  I  continue  to  use,  the  stock  will  be  transferred 
by  the  present  Chancellor  ;  on  the  other,  the  mystery  &  delay 
that  continue  to  prevail  on  this  subject,  notwithstanding  the 
repeated  and  explicit  assurance  of  Ld.  Loughborough  that  the 
business  wd.  be  soon  &  satisfactorily  finished,  ought  perhaps  to 
discourage  all  expectation  that  this  will  happen  while  the  present 
Chancellor  remains  in  office. 


138  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

The  present  is  in  every  Sense  an  unfavorable  moment  for  the 
adoption  of  any  new  course  &  I  think  I  shall  be  better  able  a  few 
months  hence  to  give  a  safer  opinion  respecting  the  business  than 
I  am  now  able  to  do.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  respect  &  esteem 

R.  King. 


CHAPTER  X. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — No  Instructions  relative  to  Commission  in  Phila- 
delphia— Regrets  it  because  the  Mission  to  France  is  on  its  Way — Estimate 
of  Affairs  on  the  Continent — Unfavorable  to  the  Allies — Troup  to  King — 
Sailing  of  the  Envoys — Evil  Effects  of  the  Action  of  the  President — Espe- 
cially on  the  next  presidential  Election — Pickering  to  King — Envoys 
sailed — Character  of  their  Instructions  confined  to  making  commercial 
Regulations — Cabot  to  King — Apprehensions  from  the  Mission — Jacobin 
Overthrow — Effect  of  Suspension  of  specie  Payments  in  England — Sedg- 
wick to  King — Facts  relative  to  the  President's  Decision — Loss  of  Confi- 
dence in  his  Wisdom  and  Prudence — Will  cause  Division  among  the 
Federalists — Candidate  for  Speaker — Measures  that  should  be  taken  by 
Congress — J.  Trumbull  to  King — Relative  to  the  Publication  of  N.  Web- 
ster's Epidemics — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Complains  of  continued  Depre- 
dations in  American  Seas  by  Admiral  Sir  Hyde  Parker's  Squadron,  and 
asks  that  prompt  Remedy  may  be  afforded — King  to  Secretary  of  State — 
Regrets  he  had  not  received  the  Report  of  Commission  under  6th  Article 
— Report  that  the  Mission  to  France  had  not  sailed  led  him  to  a  Confer- 
ence with  Lord  Grenville,  which  he  gives. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of   State. 
No.  54. 

London,  Nov.  4,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  reed,  a  complete  series  of  your  dispatches  to  No.  66  in- 
clusive. I  expected  that  the  last  wd.  have  included  my  instruc- 
tions on  the  subject  of  the  Commn.  at  Philada.  I  wish  that  they 
may  soon  arrive,  as  1  shd.  regret  the  appearance  of  Delay, 
especially  if,  as  I  suppose  to  be  the  case,  the  Mission  to  France 
is  on  its  way. 

The  official  reports  of  the  two  sides  differ  very  materially  con- 
cerning their  respective  losses  in  the  battles  that  have  forced  the 
Allies  to  evacuate  Switzerland  ;  a  fact  that  in  itself  is  decisive  in 

139 


140  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

respect  to  these  contradictory  accounts.  The  News  papers  before 
this  letter  reaches  you,  will  have  told  you  all  we  know  of  the 
terms  upon  which  the  Duke  of  York  has  been  permitted  to  with- 
draw his  army  from  Holland.  Many  of  the  regiments  have  re- 
turned, &  the  rest  of  the  army  will  be  reimbarked  with  all  possi- 
ble expedition.  If  before  the  conclusion  of  this  Convention, 
hopes  might  have  been  entertained  that  the  Allies  wd.  before  the 
close  of  the  campaign  be  able  to  resume  the  offensive  with  the 
view  of  again  entering  Switzerland,  these  hopes  must  now  be 
given  up,  as  the  French  Army  in  Holland  will  doubtless  be  sent 
to  reinforce  the  Army  of  the  Rhine,  which  by  an  irruption  into 
Germany  will  compel  the  Arch  Duke  and  Suwarrow  to  make  such 
large  detachments  as  will  leave  the  Army  of  the  Danube  under 
Massena  an  overmatch  for  the  allied  army  to  which  it  is  opposed. 
It  is  to  the  moral  effects  of  these  successes  that  we  shd.  direct 
our  attention.  In  France  the  factions  are  silenced,  and  at  least 
for  the  present  the  Directory  is  confirmed  in  its  ascendency  & 
power.  The  insurrections  ill-combined  &  always  an  useless  & 
cruel  waste  of  blood,  will  be  soon  suppressed,  &  from  the  like 
cause,  the  People  will  submit  to  new  experiments  to  raise  Taxes, 
for  the  want  of  which  the  Directory  was  in  the  greatest  embar- 
rassment. 

There  has  been  little  mutual  confidence  at  any  period  of  the 
campaign  between  Austria  &  Eng.  Defeats  as  well  as  victories 
beget  jealousies  ;  moreover  the  occasion  of  mutual  recrimination, 
which  ends  in  mutual  animosity  and  ex  parte  treaties.  If  Austria 
conclude  a  separate  Peace,  as  France  will  omit  no  means  to  in- 
duce her  to  do,  Russia  has  beforehand  told  us  she  will  withdraw 
her  Armies  and  the  war  will  continue  between  France  and  Eng- 
land. 

The  great  Bankruptcies  upon  the  Continent  cannot  fail  to  be 
followed  by  considerable  failures  here.  The  symptoms  of  revolt 
that  manifest  themselves  in  Ireland,  the  hearts  of  whose  inhabi- 
tants are  incurably  disaffected,  must  be  matter  of  great  and  con- 
stant inquietude  to  the  Govent.,  which  must  see  with  grief  the 
distresses  of  the  poor  from  the  scarcity  of  Bread,  and  the  morti- 
fication of  the  nation  being  obliged  to  ransom  the  Army  sent  for  the 
deliverance  of  Holland*     The  natural  effect  of  this  posture  of 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


17991  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  141 

public  affairs  is  to  debilitate  instead  of  raising  the  national  courage  ; 
and  it  wd.  not  surprize  me  if  in  the  course  of  the  winter  there  sh. 
arise  thro'  the  nation  a  general  cry  for  peace. 

My  numbers  51  &  52  will  suggest  to  you  the  reasons  why  I 
judged  it  requisite  to  suspend  asking  of  this  Govt,  its  interference 
to  ascertain  the  disposition  of  the  Porte  in  respect  to  the  proposed 
Mission  to  Constantinople.  I  am  convinced  that  this  Mission  as 
well  as  that  to  Russia  must  at  least  for  the  present  be  relin- 
quished. 

I  cannot  yet  learn  whether  the  Blockade  of  the  Ports  of  Hol- 
land will  be  raised.  I  think  it  likely  to  be  because  this  country 
has  a  great  interest  in  opening  the  markets  of  that,  for  the  sale  of 
the  West  India  products  with  which  it  is  glutted  ;  there  is  no 
doubt  that  the  Blockade  of  the  Dutch  Ports,  through  which  the 
products  of  the  East  &  West  Indies  were  distributed  thro'  Ger- 
many, Flanders  &  the  Northern  provinces  of  France  has  been  a 
principal  cause  of  the  failures  at  Hamburgh. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  Troup  to  R,  King. 

New  York,  6  November,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

By  this  time  I  suppose  the  Chief  Justice  and  Governor  Davie 
of  North  Carolina  have  sailed  from  New  Port  in  the  United  States 
Frigate,  commanded  by  Commodore  Barry,  on  their  mission  to 
France.  It  is  said  they  will  sail  directly  to  France.  I  have  not 
met  with  a  single  person,  who  approves  this  measure  in  the  present 
posture  of  affairs  :  and  it  may  be  said  to  be  universally  disgusting. 
The  President,  we  understand,  has  embarked  in  it  not  only  without 
advice,  but  against  the  opinion  of  all  his  friends.  The  Chief  Jus- 
tice is  particularly  opposed  to  it,  and,  I  am  told,  it  is  far  from  being 
agreeable  to  Governor  Davie  ;  and  they  have  been  induced  to  go 
by  the  solicitation  of  their  friends,  as  being  safe  persons  to  be 
entrusted  with  the  execution  of  a  bad  measure.  Their  instruc- 
tions, however,  are  unexceptionable,  and  they  have  no  power  to 
interfere  with  existing  Treaties,  or  to  do  anything  but  restore  the 
state  of  amity  and  the  relations  of  commerce  to  the  two  countries. 


142  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

The  old  Treaty  or  Consular  Convention  they  have  no  power  to 
renew. 

You  can  scarcely  form  an  idea  how  this  measure  from  its  com- 
mencement to  the  present  stage  of  it  has  damped  the  ardor  of  the 
friends  of  the  government.  It  will  have  a  serious  effect  on  the 
next  election  of  President.  An  attempt  will  certainly  be  made,  by 
the  best  friends  of  the  government,  to  get  rid  of  Mr.  Adams,  and 
nothing  but  extreme  necessity  will  induce  the  support  of  him. 
Situated  as  we  are  now  with  Great  Britain  in  regard  to  our  late 
Treaty,  I  am  far  from  believing  that  we  run  no  risk  of  breaking 
with  her.     .     .     . 

As  usual  great  efforts  are  making  in  every  part  of  our  country 
to  vilify  the  government  and  its  administration,  to  serve  Jefferson 
at  the  next  election.  I  have  my  anxieties  about  the  event  ;  but 
we  must  stand  to  our  posts  and  manfully  face  the  enemy.  Under 
our  government  it  is  vain  to  look  for  repose  !  .  .  .  Little 
Gerry  is  crawling  out  of  his  obscurity  and  giving  entertainments 
as  a  candidate  for  the  office  of  Governor  of  Massachusetts.  I 
understand  he  expects  to  be  supported  by  the  independent  of  both 
parties.     .     .     . 

Most  truly,  R.  T. 

Mr.  Pickering  in  his  "  private  and  confidential  letter  of 
Nov.  7,  1799,  writes  in  cipher  to  Mr.  King. 

"  The  Envoys  (to  France)  must  be  on  the  point  of  embarking  at 
Newport.  The  British  Government  may  probably  feel  some  solicitude 
on  the  nature  of  their  instructions  j  and  you  may  wish  to  give  it  rea- 
sonable  satisfaction.  All  the  right  pledged  to  the  British  by  Treaty 
will  be  sacredly  maintained.  The  Envoys  are  particularly  enjoined  to 
form  no  agreetnent  inconsistent  with  our  stipulations  in  the  24th  and 
25th  articles  of  the  British  Treaty.  The  outrages  of  the  French 
Republic,  having  occasioned  the  dissolution  of  the  Treaties  between  the 

United  States  and  France,  the  particular has  lost  the  priority 

of  privileges,  to  which  the  twenty-fourth  article  above  mefitioned, 
referred. 

"  You  will  naturally  expect  the  present  instructions  to  go  beyond  the 
former.     The  question  then  was,  how  to  amend  existing  Treaties,  and 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 43 


without  making  new  sacrifices,  to  give  satisfaction  to  France.  Now 
it  was  to  be  considered  what  satisfaction  for  injuries  received  was  due 
to  the  United  States  ;  and  what  new  stipulations,  their  future  interest 
required.  Old  obligations  being  rightfully  and  forever  dissolved,  we 
of  course  refuse  to  resut?ie  any  of  the  burthens  they  i??zposed.  However, 
on  the  suppositio?i  that  our  just  claims  would  be  provided  for,  and  all 
subjects  of  difference  adjusted,  it  was  natural  to  turn  our  thoughts  to 
the  regulations  adapted  to  a  commercial  intercourse.  These  few  ob- 
servations will,  I  think,  suggest  to  you  everything  material  for  your 
information. 

"  The  changes  in  the  external  relations  of  France,  and  their  effects 
on  its  interior,  made  us  hope  that  the  President  would  suspend  the 
mission,  until  a  Government  promising  some  stability,  should  afford  a 
prospect  of  useful  negotiation.  As  soon  as  the  instructions  were  finally 
arranged,  (in  which  he  adopted  the  opinions  of  the  Meads  of  Depart- 
ments) he  gave  peremptory  orders  for  the  mission  to  proceed.  This 
determination  was  deprecated  by  enlightened  Federalists,  especially  in 
New  England.  I  know  in  particular  that  your  friends  Cabot,  Ames, 
and  Higginson  were  on  the  rack  ;  and  Mr.  Ellsworth  had  expressed 
his  opinion  by  letter  to  the  President  before  he  left  Quincy,  that  it  was 
expedient  to  suspend  the  mission.  It  remains  to  be  seen  whose  opinion 
was  correct.  The  President  thinks  the  Fre?ich  Government  will  reject 
the  terms  to  which  the  Envoys  are  limited  j  that  they  will  soon  return, 
and  enable  him  to  recommend  a  formal  war  !  But  we  make  no 
demands,  which  we  have  not  a  right  to  insist  on,  and  if  we  did,  far 
from  rejecting  them,  the  Directory,  pressed  as  they  now  are,  would 
sooner  give  us  carte  blanche,  and  when  we  should  have  written  it,  on 
our  own  terms,  it  would  still  be,  in  the  view  of  that  infernal  Govern- 
ment, but  a  carte — while  we  should  be  disarmed  and  exposed  to  all  the 
mischief  of  a  new  political  intercourse.  As  to  the  Republic,  instead 
of  being  near  its  end,  the  President  says  it  will  last  yet  seven  years." 

The  Civil  War  in  St.  Domingo  between  Toussaint  and  Rigaud 
will  probably  soon  terminate  in  the  destruction  of  the  latter 
and  his  adherents.  In  that  event  we  shall  see  what  have  been 
Toussaint's  ultimate  views.  Notwithstanding  all  u  his  prof  essions 
of  devotion  to  the  French  Republic,  I  continue  to  think  he  is  merely 
temporising  and  that  he  will  ere  long  declare  St.  Domingo  indepen- 
dent." 


144  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

November  9,  1799. 
My  Dear  Sir: 

Our    Envoys  have  sailed.      Sic  vult  sic  jubet  Preses.     Not- 
withstanding a  suspension  of  this  measure  was  notified  to  Mr. 
Ellsworth  by  the  P.  yet  upon  the  arrival  of  the  latter  at  Trenton 
their  departure  was  order'd   by  him  ;  this  determination  of  the   P. 
having  been  previously  made  upon  mature  deliberation  6°  not  possible 
to  be  changed,  *  delicacy  forbad  the  consultation  of  others  whose 
advice  must  have  been  rejected.     You  will  easily  imagine  how 
unpropitious  this  whole  transaction  proves  to  our  internal  as  well 
as  to  our  external  politics.     I  have  formerly  expressed  my  appre- 
hensions of  the  new  divisions  which  it  wou'd  produce  &  which 
wou'd  strengthen  the  Jacobin  party  :   this  is  already  realized  in 
some  degree  &  will  be  more  so  ;  much  will  depend  however  upon 
the  conduct  of  G.  B.  toward  us  ;  they  may  succour  or  defeat  the 
Jacobins.     If   they   extend   their  depredations   beyond  the  just 
limits   of   Belligerent   Rights,   they   will   occasion   our  Govt,  to 
change  hands  &  to  pass  over  to  the  Jacobins,  but  if  they  confine 
their  Captures  to  those  who  violate  their  Rights,  I  trust  the  Govt, 
of  the  U.  S.  will  not  be  wrested  from  federal  hands.     I  am  dis- 
appointed in  the  expectations  I  had  formed  of  the  Swiss,  instead 
of   the   spirit   of    revenge    which   wou'd   have   been  terrible  to 
Frenchmen  had  it  been  felt,  they  appear  to  be  poisoned  with  the 
noxious  doings  of  the  Jacobin  Doctors  &  must  yet  suffer  much 
more  before  they  will  be  radically  cured — in  every  other   quarter 
the  success  of  the  Enemies  of  the  Revolutionists  corresponds  to 
my  full  expectations  &  altho'  from  the  discordancy  of  the  allied 
powers  &  the  weak  or  wicked  projects  of  some  of  them  the  Great 
Catastrophe  of  total  Destruction   to  the  Revy.  Sect  may  be  pro- 
tracted, yet  I  think  the  force  of  the  Sect  is  broken  ;  it  cannot 
overrun  countries  again  with  facility.     The  popular  material  wont 
immediately  effervesce  again  ;  there  must  be  a  space  of  time  before 
new  fermentation  can  be  produced  by  similar  means.     If  we  have 
war  it  will  be  more  of  the  old  sort,  &  in   France  I  think  there 
must  be  a  Reaction  of  Royalism  which  will  endeavor  to  extir- 
pate every  root  &  seed  of  the  infernal  Sect. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  145 


How  is  England  to  manage  the  difficult  affair  of  money?  the 
power  to  refuse  Gold  &  Silver  for  notes  is  still  continued  to  the 
Bank  &  to  the  Minister.  If  this  power  is  used  paper  must  fall 
below  the  level  of  the  Metals  :  even  the  fear  of  its  use  has  a 
tendency  to  produce  this  effect.  Mr.  Pitt  doubtless  knows  all 
this  &  either  contemplates  a  paper  system  or  he  must  restore 
things  soon  to  their  natural  course. 

Vive  vale. 


T.  Sedgwick  to   R.  King. 

Stockbridge,  15  Nov.,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  suspense  of  the  mission  to  France,  the  miserable 
jealousy  which  has  been  imbibed  by,  probably  infused  into,  the 
great  man,  *  of  those  men,  who  were,  in  my  opinion,  best  entitled 
to  the  public  confidence,  and  their  impaired  respect  for  him — 
these  circumstances  and  their  consequences  gave  me  an  uncon- 
querable aversion  to  writing  to  you  :  but  there  are  facts  lately 
come  to  my  knowledge,  how  is  immaterial,  but  they  may  be  relied 
on  as  true,  which  I  think  it  my  duty  to  communicate. 

You  have  already  my  opinions  and  reasonings,  on  the  subject 
of  a  treaty  with  france,  in  two  letters,  that  I  wrote  to  you,  not 
long  after  the  rising  of  congress. 

The  assurances  given  by  the  Executive  Directory,  are  as  I  un- 
derstand in  the  very  words  required  by  the  P — t's  declaration. 
What,  my  friend,  could  have  been  more  soothing,  than  thai  a  govern- 
ment so  haughty  6°  unbending  to  all  besides,  should  be  so  compliant 
and  submissive  to  the  dictates  of  the  great  ma?i,  at  the  head  of  a 
great  powerful,  and  independent  nation?  This  having  been  com- 
municated from  D y  to  the  ministers,  the  three  senior  Secre- 
taries joined  in  a  communication,  which  without  declaring, 
expressly,  an  opinion  of  their  own,  contained  objections  to  the 
measure,  which  to  every  ordinary  mind  would,  probably,  have 
appeared  conclusive.  To  this  no  answer,  either  written  or  verbal, 
has  yet  been  made.  Soon  after  it  was  received,  the  Prest.  set  out 
for  Trenton,  where  at  that  time  the  public  offices  were  kept,  and 
on  his  way  there  he  saw  the  Ch.  Justice  at  Hartford.     From  him, 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 

VOL.  III.  —  IO 


146  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

it  is  understood,  the  same  objections,  which  were  expressed  in  the 
Secretaries'  communication,  or  similar  ones,  were  expressed  and 
inferred.  To  them  no  answer  was  made.  When  he  arrived  at 
Trenton,  he  did  not  deign  to  communicate  with  the  Secretaries  on 
the  expediency  of  the  measure.  The  Secretary  of  State  had  been 
previously,  or  then  was,  directed  to  draw  up  instructions.     These, 

indeed,  were  submitted  to  the  advice  of  the  P t's  council  & 

approved  by  it ;  but  the  great  question  was  studiously  avoided. 
You  know  the  rest. 

In  my  recluse  situation,  I  cannot  say,  for  I  do  not  know,  the 
actual  result  of  the  feelings  &  reasonings  of  the  best  friends  of 
the  government  on  this  occasion.  I  know,  however,  what  con- 
sequences are  to  be  expected — a  total  loss  of  confidence  among 
the  best  friends  of  the  government,  in  the  wisdom  &  prudence,  of 

the  P 1,  a  belief  that  he  is  influenced  by  caprice  alone,  or  by 

the  advice  of  men  of  intrigue,  who  have  infused  into  his  mind  an 
incurable  jealousy  of  those  whom  he  formerly  deemed  his  best 
and  ablest  friends.  It  is  also  to  be  expected  that  an  irreconcil- 
able division  will  in  consequence  of  this  state  of  things  take  place 
among  the  federalists,  the  effects  of  which  will  be  incalculably 

mischievous  ;  whether  as  they  affect  a  future  election  of  a  P 1, 

the  systems  of  administration,  or  what  is  still,  if  possible,  worse 
an  increase  of  strength  to  the  opposing  faction.  The  latter  has, 
in  some  important  scenes  in  the  U.  S.,  already  obviously  taken 
place.  Cool  and  dispassionate  men  to  this  ascribe  the  election  of 
McKean,  (an  event  most  disgraceful  to  our  national  character) 
to  the  government  of  Pensyla.  It  is  supposed  to  have  rendered 
more  certain  the  future  election  of  Monroe  to  the  same  office  in 
Virga.  ;  and  from  the  latter  State  we  shall  have  a  Senator 
Nicholas,  a  brother  of  the  Representative,  a  man  more  dangerous, 
because  of  greater  ability. 

All  these  things,  unpleasant  and  gloomy,  as  they  are,  ought  not 
certainly  to  produce  despair  but  to  stimulate  to  exertion.  The 
present  house  of  Representatives,  in  the  character  of  the  members, 
certainly  affords  a  source  of  consolation.  In  any  events  should 
the  Jacobins  be  unable  to  procure,  for  their  candidate  for  the 
presidency,  a  majority,  a  well  founded  hope  may  be  entertained, 
that  a  good  decision  will  be  made  by  the  house.  But  there  is 
reason  on  the  other  hand,  to  fear  that  the  subjects  I  have  already 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  147 


mentioned,  will  have  a  very  inauspicious  influence,  even  there. 
There  is,  too,  another  source  from  which  mischief  is  to  be  appre- 
hended, of  which  I  am  the  innocent  cause. 

As  soon  as  it  was  known  that  I  was  elected  a  member  of  the 
house  of  Representatives,  it  was  given  out  that  I  must  be  the 
Speaker.  This  suggestion  was  enough  to  stimulate  the  opposition 
to  every  possible  exertion,  to  defeat  the  wishes  of  my  friends.  It 
was  evident,  that  if  there  was  a  general  attendance  of  the  mem- 
bers, an  anti  could  not  be  chosen.  It  is  said  a  system  has  been 
adopted,  which  in  my  opinion,  promises  them  success.  They  have 
fixed  on  their  candidate  ;  and  to  induce  the  federalists,  from 
the  south,  to  vote  for  him,  they  represent  the  present  as  a  new 
england  administration,  &  thereby  endeavor  to  excite  jealousy, 
by  taking  advantage  of  local  prejudices  ;  and  to  counteract  the 
affections  of  party,  they  speak  of  me  and  my  character  with  re- 
spect. It  is  said  that  the  gentleman,  they  at  present  contemplate 
as  the  rival  candidate,  has  agreed  to  be  held  up  ;  but  as  I  have 
ever  thought  of  him  with  respect  and  indeed  affection,  I  will  not, 
at  present,  mention,  even  to  you,  his  name.  This  must,  of  neces- 
sity, have  an  influence  on  southern  Gentlemen,  of  a  certain  de- 
scription ;  and  should  its  influence  prevail  it  may  add,  infinitely, 
to  our  embarrassments. 

If  the  real  federal  majority  can  act  together  much  may  and 
ought  to  be  done  to  give  efficiency  to  the  government,  and  to  re- 
press the  efforts  of  the  Jacobins  against  it.  We  ought  to  spread 
out  the  judicial  so  as  to  render  the  justice  of  the  nation  accepta- 
ble to  the  people,  to  aid  national  economy,  to  overawe  the  licen- 
tious, and  to  punish  the  guilty.  We  ought  to  extend  protection 
to  commerce  by  efficient  force.  We  ought  to  facilitate  communi- 
cation between  different  parts  of  the  country  as  well  by  rendering 
our  roads  more  safe  and  practicable,  as  by  the  means  of  canals. 
And  we  ought,  at  the  same  time,  that  we  promote  the  real  happi- 
ness &  welfare  of  the  people,  to  court  thereby  their  favor. 

It  is  a  truth,  unfortunately,  but  too  evident  that  faction  has, 
since  you  left  the  country,  become  more  persistent  &  systematic  ; 
and,  I  believe,  its  leaders  have  decided  that  the  duration  of  the 
government  shall  depend  on  the  actual  force  of  its  friends  &  ene- 
mies. This  appears  to  me  evident  from  the  conduct  of  the  gov- 
ernment of  Virga.  and  its  satellite  Kentucky.     With  regard  to  the 


148  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

former,  it  has  displayed  an  anxiety  to  render  its  militia  as  formid- 
able as  possible,  and  to  supply  its  arsenals  &  magazines,  and  for 
those  purposes  it  actually  imposed  a  tax  on  its  Citizens. 

But  I  will  no  longer  continue  this  style  of  croaking.  As  soon 
after  the  session  shall  commence  as  I  can  form  an  opinion  of  our 
prospects  I  will  detail  it  to  you. 

Benson  informed  me  that  Mr.  Jay,  he  believed,  would  decline 
a  future  election  as  Governor.  Such  is  the  abuse  of  every  good 
man  who  is  a  candidate  for  office,  that  it  requires  strong  nerves 
indeed  to  encounter  it.  I  am  persuaded  that  the  delicacy  and  for- 
bearance with  which  slander  has  been  endured  has  had  a  most 
mischievous  effect. 

You  shall,  again,  soon  hear  from 

Your  affect. 
S. 

Jno.  Trumbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  Nov.  16,  1799. 
Mr.  Trumbull  in  this  letter  gives  statements  in  detail  of 
the  business  which  had  come  before  the  Commissioners  of 
the  7th  Article  of  the  Treaty  between  the  United  States  of 
America  and  Great  Britain,  and  remarks  that  he  trusts 

"  that  the  plain  result  of  the  whole  will  be  that  the  Business,  so  far 
as  it  has  been  suffered  to  proceed,  has  not  been  conducted  with 
negligence  or  partiality. 

"  I  have  seen  Dr.  Lettsom,  who  informs  me  that  he  has  submitted 
Mr.  Webster's  work  *  to  the  Messrs.  Robinson,  who  are  the  most 
liberal  Booksellers  and  Publishers  of  the  present  time,  that  they 
are  pleased  with  it  and  regard  it  as  an  ingenious  and  able  work  ; 
but  they  offer  no  more  than  one  hundred  Guineas  for  the  copy- 
right— a  sum  so  far  below  the  lowest  named  by  Mr.  Webster  in 

*  Mr.  King  had  received  from  Noah  Webster  the  manuscript  of  his  work  on 
Epidemics,  consigned  to  Messrs.  Gore,  Trumbull,  and  King,  the  receipt  of 
which  was  acknowledged  in  a  letter  from  the  last  dated  Sept.  9,  1799.  They 
were  asked  to  make  "preliminary  enquiries  respecting  the  sale  and  printing  it 
on  his  own  account."  Mr.  K.,  however,  declined  any  ostensible  share  in  the 
contracts. 

The  above  letter  from  Col.  Trumbull  gives  the  result  of  the  enquiry. 


1799]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  149 


his  letter  to  you,  that  I  presume   such   a  bargain   cannot  be  con- 
sented to. 

The  remaining  alternative  of  causing  the  Book  to  be  published 
on  his  own  account  does  by  no  means  meet  the  approbation  of 
the  Doctor,  who  says  that  he  speaks  from  experience  when  he 
foretells  that  it  must  prove  a  very  injurious  enterprise  in  the  low 
state  of  public  curiosity  on  the  subject  treated  of  and  the  very 
high  price  of  material.  If  therefore  Mr.  Webster  insists  upon  the 
publication,  the  Dr.  is  persuaded  that  the  best  thing  which  can 
be  done  is  to  accept  Mr.  Robinson's  offer  for  an  edition  of  500 
copies  and  that  a  publication  on  the  author's  own  account  would 
prove  ruinous. 

"  Will  you  have  the  goodness  to  write  decisively  to  Dr.  Lettsom 
on  the  subjects  or  call  upon  him  (which  will  be  a  nattering  and 
perhaps  not  unmerited  attention)  &c.  &c. 

"  Your  faithful  servant  &  friend, 

"  Jno.  Trumbull." 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Nov.  18,  1799. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  heretofore  represented  to  your  Lordship  the  frequent 
interruption  received  by  our  navigation  in  the  American  seas 
under  the  Pretext  that  Bar  Iron  Nails,  Russia  Sheeting,  and  some 
other  articles  of  innocent  merchandize  might  be  considered  and 
treated  as  Contraband  of  War.  The  conferences  that  I  have  had 
with  yr.  Lordship  upon  this  subject  gave  me  reason  to  expect  that 
these  embarrassments,  so  detrimental  to  us,  and  so  little  bene- 
ficial to  others,  wd.  in  future  be  checked  by  an  explanatory  arti- 
cle to  our  Treaty,  that  shd.  distinctly  exclude  these  articles  from 
the  catalogue  of  Contraband. 

But  these  interruptions  instead  of  ceasing,  as  we  hoped  wd. 
have  been  the  case,  have  of  late  been  increased  and  extended  : 
for  not  only  the  private  armed  ships  in  those  seas,  but  the  squad- 
ron under  Sir  H.  Parker  have  together  fallen  upon  our  naviga- 
tion, and  a  large  portion  of  our  ships  engaged  in  the  Trade  be- 
tween the  U.  S.  &  the  Spanish  colonies  have  been  seized  &  their 
cargoes  condemned  ;  as  we  are  informed  upon  the  extraordinary 
&  erroneous  pretence  that  Spain  had  interdicted  the  trade  of  for- 
eigners with  her  colonies  ;  and  this  at  the  same  time  that  numer- 


150  RUFUS  KING.  [^799 

ous  adventures  to  the  Spanish  colonies,  composed  in  some 
instances,  of  the  very  cargoes  taken  from  the  Amers.,  were 
undertaken  by,  &  on  acct.  of  British  subjects  residing  in  the 
Islands  to  which  the  Amern.  ships  were  sent  for  adjudication. 

We  are  ignorant  whether  orders  have  been  given  that  can  in 
any  degree  countenance  these  ruinous  depredations,  or  whether 
they  proceed  from  some  less  excusable  motive  on  the  part  of  the 
captors  :  it  is  our  inclination  to  believe  that  no  such  orders  have 
been  given,  but  the  effect  is  nearly  the  same  on  either  hypothesis, 
as  the  great  loss  by  the  disadvantageous  sale  of  our  Cargoes  under 
the  Decrees  of  the  Provincial  Courts  of  Admiralty,  joined  to  the 
time  &  expense  requisite  to  bring  to  an  issue  our  claims  before 
the  Court  of  Appeals,  produce  a  result  that  in  a  plurality  of  cases 
makes  it  a  measure  of  prudence  to  abandon  our  Property  instead 
of  pursuing  the  remedy  that  is  held  forth  to  us. 

It  is  my  duty  to  complain  to  yr.  Ldp.  of  the  injury,  that  under 
color  of  his  Majesty's  authority,  is  thus  committed  upon  the  citi- 
zens of  a  country  that  has  given,  and  continues  to  give,  unequivo- 
cal proofs  of  a  sincere  desire  to  live  in  friendship  with  G.  Britain, 
&  in  doing  so  I  am  anxious  to  press  upon  your  Ldp.'s  considera- 
tion the  uneasiness  &  dissatisfaction  so  unfavorable  to  the  inter- 
course &  harmony  between  our  respective  countries,  that  must, 
&  especially  at  the  present  moment  of  commercial  embarrassment, 
proceed  from  losses  so  unexpected  and  considerable. 

Your  Ldp.  will,  I  persuade  myself,  order  the  complaint  to  be 
investigated  without  Delay,  &  so  unjustifiable  has  been  the  con- 
duct of  the  Captors,  that  I  flatter  myself  that  not  only  a  prompt 
&  adequate  remedy  will  be  afforded  to  the  sufferers,  but  moreover 
that  such  precise  instructions  will  be  given  as  shall  secure  us 
against  the  like  injuries  hereafter. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


|  R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  55. 

London,  Dec.  2,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  late  Revolution  at  Paris  meets  with  as  little  opposition  as 

any   of  those  that  have  preceded  it,  &  seems  to  differ  in  nothing 

from  them,  except  that  no  royal  conspiracy  has  been  denounced  in 


1799]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  151 


its  justification  ;  the  soldiery  has  been  more  openly  caressed,  &  a 
more  undisguised  contempt  has  been  shown  for  the  degraded 
Nation,  that  has  been  so  long  and  so  cruelly  the  victim  of 
political  experiments. 

On  the  arrival  of  the  October  Packet,  I  went  to  the  office  of 
foreign  affairs  &  requested  the  under  Secretary  Mr.  Frere  to 
inform  Lord  Grenville  that  I  had  been  disappointed  in  not 
receiving  my  instructions  respecting  the  suspension  of  the  com- 
mission at  Philada  ;  &  that  I  ascribed  the  Delay  to  the  interrup- 
tion that  had  arisen  from  the  reappearance  of  the  Fever  there, 
which  had  obliged  the  officers  of  Govt.,  with  the  other  inhabitants 
to  remove  into  the  country.  As  this  suspension  is  the  effect  of  the 
secession  of  our  Commrs.  I  concluded  that  you  would  be  anxious 
that  no  time  should  be  lost  in  the  explanation  of  our  motives,  & 
I  therefore  thought  it  adviseable  to  suggest  what  I  conceived  to 
be  the  occasion  of  the  Delay.  On  this  account  as  well  as  because 
the  present  time  has  appeared  to  me  not  imfavorable  *  I  think  it  is  to 
be  regretted  that  you  are  not  likely  to  receive  the  report  of  Messrs. 
Fitzsimons  &  Sitgreaves  in  season  to  send  before  the  sailing  of 
the  Packet  of  the  present  month,  which  will  not  arrive  before 
Feby.  when  the  Govt,  will  be  busily  employed  in  preparations  for 
the  next  campaign  and  for  that  reason  will  be  less  patient  in  the 
examination  of  any  propositions  we  may  have  to  submit  to  its 
consideration. 

On  the  15th  of  last  month  several  private  letters  were  received 
by  a  ship  that  left  Boston  on  the  20th  of  October,  all  of  which 
agreed  in  stating  that  the  President  had  suspended  the  mission  to 
France.  After  a  short  consideration  of  the  subject  it  appeared 
to  me  to  be  a  measure  that  might  possibly  be  turned  to  advantage 
in  regard  to  our  situation  with  England  &  under  this  impression 
I  decided  to  go  immediately  to  Lord  Grenville,  whom  I  had  not 
seen  except  at  St.  James'  since  the  Conference  reported  in  the  P.S. 
of  my  No.  51.  His  Ldp.  was  at  home  received  me  immediately 
6°  with  marks  of  cordiality.  Without  preface  I  communicated  to 
him  the  information  that  I  had  just  received,  remarking  that  the 
measure  was  not  only  of  consequence  to  us,  but  in  my  eyes  of 
great  importance  to  Eng.  6°  her  Allies.  His  Ldp.  fully  assented 
to  this  observation  &  expressed  his  satisfaction  in  receiving  the 
intelligence.     I  then  added  that  I  wd.  without  reserve  explain  tie 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


152  RUFUS  KING.  [*799 

motives  which  had  induced  me  to  make  this  communication.  It 
was  a  gross  error  to  suppose  that  the  People  of  the  United  States 
were  attached  either  to  England  or  to  France,  but  it  was  certainly- 
true  that  in  reference  to  our  own  Interests,  we  were  not  unani- 
mous in  the  opinion  that  an  intimate  commercial  connexion 
with  England  was  under  all  its  circumstances  more  advantageous 
than  a  connexion  with  France,  and  as  these  are  the  two  most 
important  Nations  of  Europe,  especially  in  a  commercial  sense, 
the  only  one  that  could  have  much  influence  upon  our  foreign 
Politics,  no  measure  of  our  Govt,  tending  to  increase  or  diminish 
our  commerce  with  either  of  them  could  pass  without  the  most 
scrupulous  examination,  nor  without  being  made  the  occasion  of 
a  comparison  between  the  injuries,  as  well  as  the  benefits,  received 
from  each. 

I  was  therefore  persuaded  that  the  suspension  of  the  Mission  to 
France  wd.  produce  a  fresh  discussion  upon  this  subject,  when 
our  just  complaints  against  the  naval  officers  of  G.  Britain  on 
account  of  their  impressment  of  &  cruelty  towards  our  sea- 
men, as  well  as  for  their  late  depredations  upon  our  Trade  in  the 
American  seas,  would  unavoidably  have  a  very  considerable  influ- 
ence upon  the  public  opinion  of  the  United  States  ;  that  I  might 
mention  other  topics  that  would  invite  discussion,  and  had  not 
his  Ldp.  lately  expressed  himself  as  strongly  as  he  had  done  with 
respect  to  the  Commission  at  Philada.,  I  should  have  been 
inclined  to  have  represented  the  great  &,  as  we  believed,  unre- 
mitted inconvenience  proceeding  from  the  suspension  of  the 
Commission  here  because  that  at  Philada  had  been  stopped  in 
consequence  of  the  indefensible  conduct  of  the  English  Commrs; 
that  I  would  however  say  nothing  on  that  head,  as  I  had  not  yet 
received  my  instructions.  But  if  the  representation  that  I  had 
just  made  appeared  to  his  Ldp.  of  the  same  importance  as  it  did 
to  me,  I  should  hope  that  immediate  measures  would  be  taken 
not  only  to  do  us  effectual  justice  for  the  past,  but  moreover  to 
secure  us  against  a  repetition  of  the  injuries  we  have  so  often 
sustained.  Justice  was  of  perpetual  obligation,  but  there  were 
times  when  those  who  render  it  may  be  benefited  even  beyond 
the  ordinary  recompense  that  follows  the  performance  of  a  duty, 
and  the  present  in  my  view  was  such  an  occasion. 

Ld.  Grenville  after  a  few  observations  of  a  tenor  to  persuade 


799]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 53 


me,  he  placed  a  proper  value  upon  the  friendship  of  the  United 
States,  &  that  he  should  always  be  inclined  to  remove  as  well  as 
to  avoid  occasions  of  misunderstanding  replyd,  that  there  were  very 
few  subjects  upon  which  he  wd.  say  that  he  might  not  alter  his 
opinion,  but  that  he  could  not  help  avowing  that  it  seemed  very 
unlikely  that  he  should  adopt  the  sentiments  I  had  just  expressed 
respecting  the  two  Commissions.  At  present  he  knew  not  what 
we  should  have  to  propose  ;  possibly  the  return  of  one  of  their 
Commrs.  from  Philada.  might  facilitate  the  Business.  With  regard 
to  the  Impressment  of  our  seamen,  he  perceived  that  an  old  con- 
troversy had  been  revived  between  their  Admirals  &  the  Colonial 
Courts,  &  that  we  had  named  an  agent  at  Jamaica  for  the  Protec- 
tion of  our  seamen,  a  measure  considering  its  innovation  upon 
the  Colonial  system,  that  could  not  be  thought  of  any  validity 
without  his  Majesty's  consent.  These  remarks  led  to  a  short 
conversation  that  turned  upon  the  points  discussed  in  my  late 
note  upon  this  subject,  &  ended  by  his  Zdp's  acquiescence  in  the 
opinion  that  a  special  convention  could  alone  secure  the  respec- 
tive Rights  of  the  two  countries. 

His  Ldp.  to  my  surprise  then  added  that  he  had  not  before 
heard  of  the  late  captures  in  the  West  Indies  to  which  I  had 
alluded.  I  restated  the  nature  &  extent  of  these  depredations, 
and  complained  of  the  countenance  &  encouragement  they  had 
received  from  the  Commander  in  chief  Sir  H.  Parker.  His  Ldp. 
asked  me  if  I  had  any  official  information  on  this  subject  :  I 
replied  in  the  affirmative  &  that  I  would  send  his  Ldp.  a  note, 
complaining  of  these  excesses,  if  I  might  expect  an  answer  that 
would  afford  us  Hope  of  redress.  His  Ldp.  said  if  I  would  send 
him  such  a  note  he  would  immediately  institute  an  enquiry  into 
the  complaint. 

I  accordingly  sent  the  note,  a  copy  of  which  is  annexed.  I 
have  not  yet  received  an  answer.  The  note  from  Ld.  Grenville, 
a  copy  of  which  is  subjoined,  notifies  the  discontinuance  of  the 
Blockade  of  the  Dutch  Ports. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XL 

Sedgwick  to  King — Bad  Effect  of  possible  Disbandment  of  the  Army — Loan 
would  be  necessary  to  maintain  it  and  increase  the  Navy — Next  presiden- 
tial Election — Confidence  that  Federalists  will  succeed — King  to  Secretary 
of  State — Threatened  Withdrawal  of  Russian  Troops — Want  of  Confidence 
in  the  Austrians — Russia  makes  Treaty  with  Denmark,  etc. — What  Effect 
will  this  have  on  American  Commerce  with  France?  and  with  the 
Conduct  of  England — Restoration  of  Commerce  with  France  may  help 
Negotiations  in  England — Make  her  restrain  Abuses — Consider  stopping 
Impressment — King  to  Troup — Consuls  named  Talleyrand  to  meet  the 
Envoys — Louis  XVII. — King  to  H.  Grant  relative  to  the  Capture  of  the 
Woodrop  Sims  with  U.  S.  Arms  on  Board  by  the  French — To  Comte 
Wedel  Jarlsberg — Laws  of  the  U.  S.  relative  to  Inheritances — To  N. 
Low — Recommendation  of  B.  Dandridge  in  business  Relations — Sedgwick 
to  King — Death  of  General  Washington — Shall  the  Army  continue  to  be 
recruited — If  Treaty  with  France  made,  it  would  be  disbanded — President 
will  probably  be  authorized  to  stop  Enlistments — General  Marshall  is  much 
relied  on — Sedgwick  hopes  no  Treaty  with  France  will  be  made — King  to  O. 
Wolcott — Many  Embarrassments  in  England  cause  Stagnation  in  Business 
— No  Peace  probable — King  to  Pickering — Little  Probability  of  Peace — 
The  Effect  of  the  Mission — Should  it  succeed,  England  and  Russia  would 
probably  be  offended — New  French  Constitution  accepted  by  the  People. 

T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia  12th  Dec.  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

At  present  parties  have  not  assumed  a  shape — The  federal 
nerve  seems  to  have  become  palsied  by  the  mission  to  france, 
and  there  is  real  cause  to  apprehend  that  good  men  may  be 
misled.  The  great  effort  will  be  made  against  the  army.  Should 
it  be  disbanded  we  shall  send  home,  as  many,  with  few  exceptions, 
active  &  resentful  agents  to  disseminate  discord,  as  there  are  per- 
sons that  at  present  compose  it.     On  the  other  hand  good  men, 

154 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 55 

in  New  England,  where  tranquility  generally  prevails,  can  not 
easily  be  led  to  understand,  for  what  purposes  the  Army  can  be 
necessary,  provided  a  peace  be  made  with  france.  The  existence 
of  the  army,  too,  by  the  terms  of  inlistment  will  terminate,  "  with 
the  differences  between  the  U.  S.  &  france."  Indeed  the  Army 
could  not  have  been  carried,  in  the  house  of  Representatives,  on 
any  other  terms.  To  continue  it  beyond  that  period,  therefore, 
a  new  inlistment  will  be  necessary.  This  will  not,  probably,  be 
so  difficult  with  the  Jacobins,  as  with  the  Legislature.  But  as  to 
disband  the  army  would  at  the  present  time  be  extremely 
dangerous,  if  not  absolutely  ruinous,  it  must,  if  possible,  be 
prevented. 

By  the  best  information  I  can  obtain  from  the  Secy,  of  the 
Treasury,  a  loan  will  be  necessary  to  the  amount  of  very  nearly 
5,000,000  dollars,  provided  we  maintain  the  Army  in  its  present 
numbers,  between,  I  suppose  5  &  6000,  exclusive  of  the  old 
establishment,  &  progress,  as  has  been  contemplated,  by  law,  in 
the  increase  of  our  Navy.  A  loan  cannot  be  had,  without  letting 
in  foreign  competition,  under  eight  per  cent  interest,  nor  at  that 
with  the  same  alacrity  as  the  last.  The  fact  is,  that  many  of  the 
subscribers  to  the  last  loan  lost  by  it — The  avidity  to  subscribe 
was  such  that  many  without  the  means  of  paying  the  instalments 
were  induced  to  adventure;  the  consequence  was  that  the  stock 
was  brought  into  the  market,  and,  in  some  instances,  sold  at  a 
discount.  This  evil  was  foreseen,  but  at  that  time,  it  was  said, 
could  not  be  prevented  for  want  of  time.  At  present  that  species 
of  stock  is  two  or  three  percent  above  par.  The  loan,  therefore, 
can  probably,  be  had,  on  the  same  terms  ;  but  if  a  stock  of  three 
per  cent  is  created  much  more  money  can  be  obtained,  for  the 
same  annuity.  And  this  for  myself  I  should  much  prefer.  But 
on  whatever  terms  the  loan  is  to  be  made,  the  practise  in  G. 
Britain  of  receiving  proposals,  is  greatly  preferable,  to  an  indis- 
criminate offer  to  every  body. 

In  all  our  measures,  we  must  never  lose  sight,  of  the  next  elec- 
tion of  President.  In  Virginia,  the  election  will,  doubtless,  be  by 
the  people  &  by  a  general  ticket.  Altho'  several  of  our  friends, 
in  that  state  tell  us  that  this  will  be  so  unpopular,  that  the  federal 
interest  will  prevail,  yet,  I  confess  this  is  an  event,  for  which  I 
cannot  form  the  faintest  hope.     It  is  to  my  mind  probable,  that 


156  RUFUS  KING.  [l799 

No.  Carolina  will  follow  the  example  of  Virginia  &  in  that  case, 
I  expect  all  the  votes  again  against  us.  In  this  State  there  is 
no  existing  Law,  and  no  election,  you  know,  can  be  made  with- 
out one  ;  and  the  best  men  here  tell  us,  that  none  unfavorable  to 
the  federal  interest  will  be  assented  to  in  the  Senate,  where  the 
majority  is  not  only  considerable,  in  point  of  numbers,  but  in 
character  firm  &  decided.  On  the  whole  I  have,  notwithstand- 
ing the  gloominess  of  the  prospect,  much  confidence  that  we  shall 
prevail.  From  hence  to  the  eastward  we  expect  the  votes  will  be 
nearly  unanimous,  not  probably  for  any  two,  but  against  the  one 
whom  we  all  dread  ;  and  if  his  election  by  the  electors  can  be 
prevented,  we  may  place,  I  think,  the  utmost  confidence,  in  the 
house  of  Representatives. — In  Maryland  &  Georgia  we  shall  have 
several  votes,  and  S.  Carolina  &  Delaware  all. 

I  will  write  to  you  again  in  a  few  days,  and  as  soon  as  a 
reasonable  conjecture  can  be  formed  of  the  system  which  will  be 
pursued.     .     .     . 

I  am  sincerely  yours 

T.  S. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  56. 

London,  Dec.  14,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  publication  of  Suwarrow's  dispatches  in  the  Gazette  of 
Petersburgh  confirms  in  the  fullest  extent  the  rumours  that  of  late 
have  been  circulated  of  the  jealousy  &  misunderstanding  that 
have  for  some  time  existed  between  the  two  Imperial  armies.  It  is 
believed  that  in  consequence  of  Suwarrow's  reports,  the  Em- 
peror of  Russia  has  sent  him  orders  to  return  home  with  his 
army.  Means  have  been  found  to  delay  the  execution  of  this 
measure,  and  Engd.  is  active  in  her  endeavours  as  well  to  prevent  the  * 
retreat  of  the  Russians  as  to  soften  &  explain  at  Viemia  the  indis- 
creet publication  of  Suwarrow's  dispatches.  In  the  first  she  will 
succeed,  but  as  this  open  rupture  embittered  by  the  reproach  upon 
the  Austrians  contained  in  the  Ukase,  appointing  Suwarrow  Gen- 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1799]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  1 57 


eralissimo,  offers  new  means  of  negotiation  to  the  French,  as  the 
English  Cabinet  is  not  supposed  to  have  much  influence  at  Vien?ia, 
great  anxiety  exists  lest  Austria  shd.  again  conclude  a  separate 
Peace.  Since  the  late  Resolution  at  Paris,  &  immediately  before 
the  inteinperate  expression  of  the  dissatisfaction  of  Russia,  the  cabi- 
net of  Vienna  gave  explicit  assurance  to  the  English  Ambassador 
that  it  had  no  intention  of  negotiation,  and  the  Ambassador  added 
to  this  information  his  own  opinion  that  it  might  be  relied  upon. 
It  will  however  be  very  difficult  after  what  has  happened  to  re- 
establish confidence  or  even  harmony  between  the  Austrians  & 
Russians  ;  and  if  neither  withdraw,  it  will  be  necessary  that  they 
should  act  separately.  England  is  firm  in  her  resolution  to  con- 
tinue the  war,  and  she  will  use  all  the  means  in  her  power  to  put 
in  execution  against  France  the  plan  in  respect  to  Commerce, 
that  France  has  been  desirous  to  see  enforced  against  her.  It  is 
with  this  view  chiefly  that  Engd.  &  Russia  have  at  length  con- 
cluded a  Treaty  with  Denmark,  which  engages  that  Power  in  the 
war  against  France.  Russia  is  negotiating  at  Stockholm,  &  since 
the  Treaty  with  Denmark  will  be  more  likely  to  draw  Sweden 
also  into  the  coalition.  The  positive  aid  to  be  derived  by  the 
allies  from  these  two  Kingdoms  must  be  inconsiderable  ;  but  the 
withdrawing  their  ships  from  the  French  Ports  will  affect  France 
as  well  in  the  sale  of  her  productions,  as  in  the  purchase  of  vari- 
ous supplies,  &  especially  of  naval  Stores. 

Important  reflections  in  respect  to  the  United  States  arise  out 
of  this  probable  state  of  Europe.  If  an  uninterrupted  commer- 
cial intercourse  between  the  U.  S.  &  France  could  be  established, 
the  advantage  expected  by  the  allies  from  the  coalition  of  Den- 
mark &  Sweden  would  essentially  fail,  inasmuch  as  the  naviga- 
tion of  the  U.  S.  is  superior  to  that  of  Denmark  &  Sweden 
together.  The  loss  of  the  Danish  &  Swedish  Flags  &  markets 
will  naturally  increase  the  desire  of  regaining  those  of  the  U. 
States,  &  may  lead  the  Provisional  Govt,  to  employ  plausible  & 
even  earnest  &  direct  measures  to  remove  the  misunderstanding 
between  the  two  Countries.  You  are  much  more  able  than  I  am 
to  decide  how  far  the  restoration  of  the  former  commercial  & 
political  intercourse  will  be  likely  to  increase  the  prosperity  of 
our  commerce,  or  the  stability  of  our  Govt,  upon  the  supposition 
even  that   England  would  take  no  new  measure  to  disturb  our 


158  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

trade.  I  do  not  feel  authorized  to  express  a  distinct  opinion 
upon  either  of  these  topics,  tho'  the  best  information  which  I 
have  been  able  to  collect  in  regard  to  the  trade  of  Denmark  & 
Sweden  with  France,  since  our  absence  from  the  French  markets, 
has  given  me  no  very  favourable  opinion  of  the  French  trade  in  its 
present  exhausted  and  precarious  State.  But  the  subject  merits 
consideration  in  another  point  of  view,  and  without  giving  you 
the  trouble  of  reading  a  dissertation  explanatory  of  the  reasons 
of  my  Belief,  I  will  only  express  my  entire  persuasion  founded 
upon  the  efforts  that  have  been  made  to  engage  Denmark  &  Swe- 
den in  the  coalition,  the  temper  that  appeared  upon  the  news  of 
the  last  nomination  of  Envoys  to  France,  the  opinion  openly 
avowed  that  Engd.  rights  for  existence,  &  that  the  present 
differs  from  all  preceding,  and  that  our  reconciliation  with  France 
wd.  be  followed  by  an  almost  indiscriminate  capture  of  our  ships 
trading  with  the  French  Dominions,  a  reconciliation  with  France 
will  according  to  this  opinion  be  the  signal  for  a  rupture  with 
England,  for  /presume  that  we shd.  no  more  acquiesce  in  the  law- 
less depredations  of  the  one  than  of  the  other.  If  we  remain  as 
we  are  or  go  farther  6°  place  ourselves  in  a  formal  state  of  war, 
the  English  will  without  doubt  treat  the  trade  between  the  Hanse 
Towns  6r°  France  with  very  little  ceremony.  It  is  possible  that 
the  interest  of  Fngd,  as  well  in  the  reservation  of  her  own  con- 
nexion with  us  as  in  the  preve?ition  of  that  of  France,  may  inspire 
its  Cabinet  with  greater  moderation  in  regard  to  the  several  im- 
portant subjects  that  must  ere  long  become  matters  of  serious 
discussion  ;  and  if  we  decline  to  renew  our  Connexion  with  France, 
ought  we  not  to  avail  ourselves  of  the  occasion  to  restrain  if  possible 
the  abuses  we  have  so  long  sustained  in  the  impressment  of  our  sea- 
men and  the  illegal  capture  6°  condemnation  of  our  ships.  I  have 
lately  submitted  to  you  my  opinion  upon  the  obstinacy  &  extent 
of  these  Evils.  The  latter  might  in  a  good  measure  be  cured  by 
a  reform  in  the  English  system  of  Prize  courts,  a  reform  that  any 
friendly  nation  has  a  just  right  to  demand  ;  for  the  former  a 
remedy  is  in  our  own  hands,  tho'  we  may  have  various  scruples 
against  using  it  ;  ivhen  we  adopt  the  practice  of  impressing  sea- 
men for  our  navy,  Engd.  will  agree  with  us  in  a  reasonable  conven- 
tion by  which  the  rights  of  both  shall  be  respected.  And  why 
should  we  not  by  law  under  just  limitations  authorize  the  impress- 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 59 


ment  of  seamen  ?  We  and  other  nations  have  impressed,  and  from 
the  main  end  of  society  all  have  a  right  to  compel  their  People  to 
serve  in  the  army,  &  on  the  like  principle  to  serve  in  the  navy. 
Besides  we  are  a  commercial  nation  6°  must  consequently  build 
and  support  a  navy.  No  nation  ever  did  or  can  man  its  navy  at 
a  rate  of  wages  arising  from  an  unlimited  competition  among 
private  adventurers  &  between  them  &  the  nation.  The  wages 
we  now  give  is  double  to  those  given  by  any  other  nation,  and  would 
consequently  pay  double  the  number  of  seamen  in  any  other  ser- 
vice. This  may  now  appear  heresy,  but  it  is  what  we  shall 
believe  &  practice  the  first  considerable  war  in  which  we  are 
engaged. 

With  perfect  respect  &  esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 


Dec.  14,  1799- 


Dear  Sir  : 

If  any  one  finds  fault  with  the  President  for  suspending  the 
Mission  to  France,  tell  them  that  the  Consuls  (for  I  suppose 
that  you  know  that  the  Directors  have  been  turned  out  of  the 
Luxemburg)  hearing  that  our  Envoys  were  on  their  way  named 
Talleyrand  to  the  office  of  forn.  affairs  to  receive  them.  The 
newspapers  are  filled  with  accounts  of  the  Jealousy  and  Misunder- 
standing between  the  two  imperial  armies,  &  that  the  Russians 
are  going  home.  The  first  part  of  these  accounts  is  but  too  true 
but  I  do  not  believe  the  latter,  &c.     .     .     . 

Denmark  has  joined  the  coalition,  and  negotiations  are  going 
on  at  Stockholm  &  Petersburg  to  induce  Sweden  likewise  to  come 
in.  If  these  powers  range  themselves  on  the  side  of  the  allies, 
and  we  continue  to  interdict  commercial  intercourse  with  France, 
the  Hanse  Towns  will  alone  send  ships  to  France,  which  the 
English,  if  I  am  not  mistaken,  will  treat  with  very  little  Ceremony 
and  with  precisely  the  same  freedom  that  they  will  use  towards 
our  ships  in  case  a  Reconciliation  takes  place  between  us  &  the 
Consuls. 

We  are  all  amusing  ourselves  with  the  last  news  from  Paris, 
which  states  that  the  Dauphin  Louis  XVII.,  who  was  believed  to 


l6o  RUFUS  KING.  [i799 

have  died  in  the  Temple  in  June  1795,  is  living  ;  having  been 
saved  by  Sieves  who  substituted  from  one  of  the  public  Hospitals 
a  child  of  corresponding  age,  incurably  affected  with  the  Scrofula, 
and  that  the  Consuls  have  resolved,  being  tired  of  the  tragi- 
comedy that  they  have  been  playing,  to  restore  the  young  King 
to  the  throne  of  his  Fathers.  R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Harry  Grant,  Esq.,  America  Square. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Dec.  15,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

My  first  inclination  upon  the  news  of  the  capture  of  the 
Woodrop  Sims  was  to  transmit  to  our  Consul  at  Bordeaux 
authentic  proofs  that  the  1500  muskets  on  board  her  had  been 
shipped  by  my  order.  A  little  consideration  has  shewn  me  that 
I  should  perhaps  have  compromitted  our  Government  as  well  as 
myself  by  that  step. 

A  public  Law  of  France  authorized  the  capture  &  condemna- 
tion of  all  property,  produced  or  manufactured  in  the  Br.  Terri- 
tories ;  on  account  of  this  and  other  unjust  Laws,  the  U.  S.  have 
authorized  the  capture  &  condemnation  of  all  French  armed 
vessels  &  their  cargoes  ;  and  we  have  actually  taken  a  French 
national  frigate,  that  is  now  in  our  service.  In  this  condition  of 
the  two  countries,  it  may  be  doubted  whether  the  U.  S.  could 
without  impropriety  ask  or  accept  even  the  restoration  of  their 
property  taken  in  the  Woodrop  Sims  ;  at  any  rate  it  would  appear 
officious  in  me  should  I  take  the  decision  of  so  important  a  ques- 
tion into  my  own  hands. 

I  have  therefore  concluded  to  observe  that  reserve  upon  this 
subject  that  belongs  to  my  limited  authority,  leaving  it  to  those 
who  alone  have  the  power  to  settle  when  &  in  such  manner  as 
they  may  think  proper,  the  misunderstanding  between  the  two 
countries. 

In  following  this  course  I  know  I  do  my  duty  ;  in  the  other  I 
may  not  only  fall  into  errors  myself,  but  be  the  occasion  of  lead- 
ing others  astray.  You  cannot  doubt  that  I  should  be  zealous  to 
promote  your  interest,  and  I  believe  you  will  be  the  first  to  ac- 
quiesce in  the  sentiments  I  have  just  expressed. 

Sincerely  &  with  much  regard  &c. 

R.  King. 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  l6l 


R.  King  to  Count  de  Wedel  Jarlsberg. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  December  18,  1799 
Sir: 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  Letter  of  the  16th  instant, 
stating  the  application  of  certain  inhabitants  of  the  United  States 
to  be  freed  from  the  Tax  established  in  Denmark  upon  Inheri- 
tances removed  into  foreign  Countries  ;  &  desiring  to  be  informed 
what  are  the  Laws  of  the  United  States  in  analogous  cases.  I 
hasten  to  reply  that  no  such  Tax  exists  within  the  United  States, 
and  that  all  foreigners  may  demand  &  remove  at  pleasure,  and 
that  free  of  any  Tax  or  deduction,  all  Personal  Property  to  which 
they  may  be  entitled  as  the  next  of  kin,  or  as  the  Legatee  of  any 
person  dying  within  the  U.  States. 

Personal  Property  includes  every  species  of  Property  except 
Houses  &  Lands  ;  which  cannot  pass  by  inheritance  or  testamen- 
tary devise  to  an  alien.  But  those  who  desire  that  their  Property 
in  Houses  &  Lands  should  pass  to  aliens,  may  by  testament 
authorize  their  executors  to  sell  the  same  and  pay  the  proceeds 
to  such  aliens  as  are  named  in  their  last  Testament  ;  and  in  this 
way  Estates  of  every  sort  may  be  passed  into  the  possession  & 
enjoyment  of  aliens,  free  of  every  restraint  &  deduction. 

The  Laws  of  the  United  States  upon  this  subject  are  precisely 
those  of  England,  which  are  probably  well  understood  in  Den- 
mark. 

With  perfect  consideration  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  N.  Low. 

London,  Dec.  20,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  B.  Dandridge,  who  has  been  for  some  time  my  Secretary 
and  whom  you  may  remember  in  the  same  capacity  with  his  rela- 
tion Genl.  Washington,  after  consulting  his  friends  and  acquaint- 
ances, has  determined  to  settle  at  New  York  as  a  merchant.  He 
will  probably  arrive  there  in  one  of  the  spring  ships  with  three  or 
four  thousand  pounds  worth  of  English  goods  with  which  he  pro- 
poses to  begin.  ...  At  first  he  will  stand  in  need  of  the 
service  and  support  of  men  of  experience  and  credit  and  without 
introducing  him  to  many  persons  for  these  purposes,  I  have  given 
him  letters  to  you  and  to  Mr.  J.  Waddington,  believing  that  both 

VOL.    III. — II 


1 62  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

of  you  will  be  disposed  at  my  desire  to  afford  to  Mr.  Dandridge,  for 
whom  I  have  a  real  friendship  and  in  whose  prosperity  I  feel  a 
sincere  concern,  all  the  countenance  and  assistance  that  his  honor 
and  integrity  so  eminently  deserve.  .  .  .  You  cannot  confer 
upon  me  a  greater  proof  of  friendship  than  in  fulfilling  my  earnest 
recommendation  in  favor  of  Mr.  Dandridge,  who  to  the  most 
correct  principles  unites  a  mildness  of  temper  and  manner  that 
must  every  where  engage  the  confidence  and  esteem  of  those  who 
have  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  him. 

With  respect  and  regard,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  Dec.  29,  1799. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

The  lamentable  event,  of  General  Washington's  death,  is 
marked  with  more  regrets,  and  deeper  sorrow,  than  any  which 
have  taken  place  since  I  have  been  on  the  stage  ;  yet  it  will  not 
be  uncandid  to  say,  that  in  the  leaders  of  the  opposition,  it  has 
produced  sentiments  of  a  very  different  &  opposite  Kind.  On 
this  subject  your  own  mind,  from  a  knowledge  of  our  affairs,  will 
afford  materials  for  reflection.  It  will  probably  accelerate  the 
crisis  which  I  believe  to  be  unavoidable. 

The  federal  part  of  the  house  will,  I  think,  be  brought  to  act 
together ;  but  to  produce  this  union  of  action,  there  must,  I  fear, 
be  a  sacrifice  of  the  opinions  of  some,  whom  I  deem  among  the 
best  and  most  enlightened  men  of  our  Country.  The  question  of 
most  delicacy  which  has  hitherto  pressed  us  is  what  shall  be  done 
with  the  Army  ?  The  new  raised  twelve  regiments  are  about 
three  fifths  full  according  to  the  best  information  I  can  obtain. 
The  term  of  their  inlistment  is  during  the  existing  differences 
with  France.  Shall  we  continue  to  recruit,  in  these  terms,  at  a 
considerable  expense  when  it  is  probable  that  a  treaty  will  soon 
disband  them  ?  Shall  we  endeavor  a  reinlistment  for  a  definite 
period,  by  giving  an  additional  bounty  ?  Should  a  treaty  be 
formed,  may  not  the  resentment,  excited  by  a  supposed  sympathy 
of  our  Country  &  government  with  france,  render  troops  as  neces- 
sary, for  other  purposes,  as  it  was  supposed  they  would  have  been 
against  France  ?     Is  it  consistent  with  the  duty  of  the  guardians 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  163 


of  the  public  safety  to  provide  no  force  against  that  spirit  of  tur- 
bulent ambition,  which  menaces  &  defies,  in  undisguised  language, 
the  national  Government  ?  This  subject  suggests  these  & 
innumerable  other  highly,  if  not  equally,  important  questions. 
The  result  of  all  will  be  that  we  shall  soon — be  not  astonished, — 
authorize  the  President  to  suspend  further  inlistments  ;  and  we 
shall  do — nothing  else.  On  much  investigation  I  am  persuaded 
this  is  the  case  at  present,  nor  do  I  expect,  unless  some  new  ob- 
ject should  arise,  that  we  shall  at  all  be  able  to  do  anything  much 
better.  We  are  told, — &,  I  suppose,  truly — that  the  army  every- 
where to  the  southward  is  very  unpopular,  and  is  growing,  daily, 
more  so.  That  it  is  represented  as  intended  to  destroy  republican 
liberty,  &  to  establish  monarchy,  and  that  these  representations 
are  not  ineffectual. 

I  have  been  much  in  Company  with  General  Marshall  since  we 
arrived  in  this  City.  He  possesses  great  powers  and  has  much 
dexterity  in  the  application  of  them.  He  is  highly  &  deservedly 
respected  by  the  friends  of  the  Government  from  the  South.  In 
short  we  can  do  nothing  without  him.  I  believe  his  intentions 
are  perfectly  honorable,  &  yet  I  do  believe  he  would  have  been  a 
more  decided  man  had  his  education  been  on  the  other  side  of 
the  Delaware,  and  he  the  immediate  representative  of  that 
country. 

The  late  reverses  of  fortune  in  Europe  have,  as  you  may  well 
suppose,  had  considerable  effect  on  the  spirits  of  the  parties  in 
this  country  ;  and  while  you  would  not,  probably,  have  so  readily 
believed,  they  are  rendering  the  late  mission  to  france  popular. 
This  is  a  very  unpleasant  indication  of  a  want  of  national  spirit, 
or,  if  you  please,  national  pride.  What  are  we  to  think  of 
the  late  events  ?  Is  jealousy  shedding  its  baleful  influences 
among  the  members  of  the  coalition  ?  Was  the  Arch  Duke  out- 
generaled, or  was  he,  as  is  suggested,  commanded  to  give  way  to 
Suwarrow,  that  he  might  have  the  glory  of  beating  Massena  ?  To 
what  was  owing  the  defeat  of  the  Project  in  Holland  ?  From 
those  disasters  I  derive  one  consolation — a  hope  that  they  may 
defeat  a  treaty  which,  should  it  be  made,  whatever  may  be  its 
terms,  will  be  as  mischievous  as  its  commencement  was  unwise — 
and  mischievous  as  in  the  terms  of  it  liberal  on  the  part  of  france. 

Yours  sincerely,  T.  S. 


1 64  RUFUS  KING.  [1799 

R.  King  to  Oliver  Wolcott. 

London,  Dec.  31,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  took  an  early  occasion  after  the  receit  of  your  letter  of  the 
4th  of  October  to  mention  its  contents  to  Mr.  Pitt,  who  appeared 
to  think  that  your  views  in  the  main  agreed  with  his,  and  desired 
me  to  give  him  the  earliest  information  of  the  result  of  such  pro- 
positions as  you  should  make  to  Congress.  In  consequence  of 
the  pecuniary  embarrassment  arising  in  part  from  the  fall  in  the 
prices  of  West  India  Productions,  the  Law  that  took  off  the  Draw- 
back on  Sugar  and  Coffee  was  during  the  last  session  of  Parlia- 
ment suspended  for  a  year.  Should  the  embarrassment  continue, 
as  is  not  improbable,  it  will  be  requisite  to  prolong  this  suspen- 
sion. Notwithstanding  the  unexampled  liberality  of  the  Bank  in 
its  discounts,  the  Permission  to  bond  the  duties  on  Sugar,  Coffee, 
&c,  instead  of  paying  them  as  formerly,  at  the  time  of  entry, 
and  the  reestablishment  of  the  Drawback,  the  difficulties  among 
Commercial  men  are  extensive  &  serious.  The  early  &  severe 
setting  in  of  the  Frost,  which  has  totally  cut  off  the  Trade  to 
Hamburgh,  and  which  impedes  that  of  Holland,  has  added  to 
the  distress,  that  will  scarcely  be  removed  before  the  disappoint- 
ments expected  in  the  remittances  from  America,  will  begin  to  be 
felt  ;  so  that  whatever  the  commercial  difficulties  may  now  be,  it 
is  apprehended  that  they  may  be  still  greater  towards  midsummer. 
With  all  the  management  of  Govt.,  the  necessary  collection  of 
money  to  pay  the  half-yearly  dividends,  is  supposed  considerably 
to  affect  the  circulation,  and  united  with  other  occasional  causes, 
produces  a  periodical  stagnation,  that  excites  inquietude,  as  well 
as  impairs  the  general  Prosperity.  This  evil  increases  with  the 
increase  of  the  public  debt,  and  in  the  eyes  of  some  speculative 
men  is  already  formidable. 

My  persuasion  is  that  no  Peace  will  be  made  this  winter,  and 
that  the  next  campaign  will  be  as  vigorous  &  bloody  as  the  last. 
I  hope  the  Washington,  in  which  as  I  informed  you  in  my  letter 
of  the  7th  of  September  we  have  2000  muskets,  &  some  other 
articles  of  public  property  may  arrive  safe.  The  Woodrop  Sims 
in  which  as  I  also  informed  you  in  my  Letter  of  the  7th  of  Sept., 
we  had   1500  muskets  with  two  or  three  Boxes,  containing  the 


1799]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 65 

Dies  of  the  Indian  medals,  ordered  by  Col.  McHenry,  some  books, 
charts  &  a  few  other  small  articles,  has  been  taken  &  carried  to 
Bordeaux. 

With  sincere  Regards  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 
{Private?) 

London,  Dec.  31,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  no  letters  from  you  later  than  the  4th  of  October.  The 
frost  has  for  the  last  fortnight  cut  off  our  communication  with 
Hamburgh,  so  that  we  are  indebted  lately  to  the  French  papers 
for  continental  intelligence.  From  those  even  which  give  us  the 
last  edition  of  the  Constitution  with  the  names  of  those  who  are 
to  administer  it,  we  are  the  more  disposed  to  believe  that  there  is 
little  probability  of  Peace  between  France  and  any  of  the  allies. 
Bonaparte  is  pledged  by  his  revolutionary  harangues  to  give 
Peace  to  France,  &  he  will  without  doubt  make  overtures  to  the 
allies,  which  agreeing  neither  with  his,  nor  with  their  situation, 
will  prove  abortive.  But  what  will  the  admirers  of  French  Liberty 
say  of  the  new  Charter  at  length  devised  for  its  security  ?  Those 
who  excused  the  atrocities  of  R.  will  be  at  no  loss  for  reasons, 
good  or  bad,  &  it  matters  not  which,  on  the  present  occasion. 

You  will  have  observed  that  I  fully  believed  the  report  of  the 
Suspension  of  the  Mission  to  France.  Your  letter  of  the  4th  of 
Oct.  strengthened  this  opinion.  It  seems  that  I  have  been  mis- 
taken. If  the  envoys  have  arrived,  it  will  not,  I  presume,  be  long 
before  their  success  or  failure  be  known.  Should  they  succeed, 
you  know  what  I  am  inclined  to  think  likely  to  be  the  conduct  of 
this  country,  &  it  would  surprize  no  one  should  Russia  adopt  a 
similar  proceeding  towards  us,  as  a  few  months  since  she  adopted 
towards  Denmark  &  Hamburgh. 

The  French  Govt,  has  two  powerful  motives  to  reconcile 
America.  The  first  to  obtain  the  aid  of  its  Flag,  the  second,  to 
embroil  us  with  England.  Still  there  are  intrinsic  difficulties  in 
the  negotiation,  besides  the  Pride  that  must  be  eaten  up. 

Mr.  Dandridge  who  for  some  time  has  been  with  me  as  my 
Secretary,  has  decided  to  engage  in  Trade.     He  is  preparing  a 


1 66  RUFUS  KING,  [1799 

quantity  of  goods  with  which  he  proposes  to  embark  in  one  of 
the  early  Spring  ships  for  New  York  ;  this  has  made  a  vacancy 
for  your  son,  who  has  consented  to  succeed  Mr.  Dandridge. 

With  sincere  Regards,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  57. 

London,  Dec.  31,  1799. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  new  French  Constitution  was  put  in  operation  on  the  25th. 
The  people  are  said  to  have  rivalled  the  discipline  of  the  armies, 
in  their  obedient  acceptance  of  this  new  Charter  of  Liberty.  The 
Provisional  Govt,  repealed  on  the  20  inst.  the  Law  of  the  29. 
Nivose  6th  year  (18th  January  1798)  &  declared  that  the  regula- 
tions of  1778  in  respect  to  the  Rights  of  Belligerents  &  neutrals 
should  in  future  be  strictly  observed. 

The  probabilities  of  a  continuance  of  the  war  between  all  the 
Powers  at  present  engaged  in  it,  have  gained  strength  within  the 
last  month.  The  Proclamations  of  the  chief  Consul  since  his  in- 
stallation, afford  no  consolation  to  the  anxious  expectants  of 
Peace  ;  &  everywhere  the  most  active  preparations  are  making 
for  the  ensuing  Campaign.  The  last  French  papers  assure  us  that 
our  Convoys  have  arrived,  and  some  recent  accounts  from. 
America  add  considerable  credit  to  this  intelligence.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

Condition  of  European  Countries  in  the  Beginning  of  1800 — Its  Relation  to 
the  United  States — Troup  to  King — Death  of  Washington — Plans  for 
honoring  his  Memory  in  New  York — Oration  to  be  pronounced  by  G. 
Morris — A  cold  historical  Narrative — Nothing  to  move  the  Feelings — 
General  Mourning — Pickering  to  King — President  will  send  Mr.  Sitgreaves 
to  England  about  the  Interruption  of  the  Commission  under  the  6th 
Article — Might  not  be  acceptable  to  Mr.  King — Mr.  Sitgreaves's  Position — 
Hamilton  to  King — Shall  the  Friends  of  the  Government  risk  Schism  by 
Attempt  to  change — Mass  of  the  People  want  Peace — He  wants  the  Navy 
increased — Renewed  Animosity  to  England — King  to  Lord  Grenville — No 
Instructions  yet  relative  to  Suspension  of  Commission  under  6th  Article — 
Lord  Grenville  to  King,  inclosing  Dispatch  from  Liston  and  an  Article 
from  Pickering  to  Peter  Porcupine  justifying  the  Conduct  of  the  American 
Commissioners — Requires  King  not  to  allow  the  former  to  go  beyond  himself 
— King  to  Lord  Grenville — Answer  to  him  and  justifying  his  Course  in 
freely  communicating  with  his  own  Government,  though  Prudence  should  be 
exercised  in  publishing  Information. — Delay  in  sending  King  Instructions 
not  for  Delay's  Sake — Not  to  await  Arrival  of  the  Envoys — Warmly  justi- 
fies his  own  Government. 

The  beginning  of  the  year  1800  exhibited  a  very  compli- 
cated condition  of  affairs  both  on  the  continent  of  Europe 
and  in  England,  which  had,  as  has  been  and  will  be  seen  in  the 
correspondence,  a  serious  influence  upon  the  status  of  the 
United  States  with  the  two  leading  powers,  France  and 
England,  in  their  diplomatic  relations.  The  return  of  Bona- 
parte from  Egypt,  the  ascendency  he  had  obtained  in 
France,  overthrowing  the  Directory  and  establishing  a  new 
constitution,  under  which  the  consular  government,  with 
himself  as  first  Consul,  had  given  new  vigor  to  the  Govern- 
ment, and  the  successes  of  the  French  arms  in  Switzerland 

167 


1 68  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

and  in  other  quarters,  had  emboldened  France  to  continue 
the  war  against  England  and  the  Allies.  Money  alone  was 
wanting  to  carry  out  its  plans,  and  that  was  hard  to  get, 
and  as  France  stood  alone  to  resist  the  pressure  against  it, 
it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  the  opportunity  was  taken 
through  the  mission  from  the  United  States,  unwisely  sent 
by  the  President,  as  was  then  generally  thought,  to  en- 
deavor to  recover  the  amicable  relations  with  that  country, 
with  which  all  commercial  intercourse  had  been  stopped,  to 
reopen  the  French  ports  to  commerce,  and  to  endeavor  to 
enlist  the  United  States  against  England,  because  of  the 
very  natural  feeling  of  anger  at  her  refusal  to  remedy  the 
just  claims  made  upon  the  British  Government. 

It  has  been  seen  with  what  urgency  and  unanswerable 
arguments  Mr,  King  had,  by  the  direction  of  his  govern- 
ment, appealed  for  a  fair  hearing  and  a  decision  of  the  im- 
portant points  at  issue  with  England ;  how  this  had  been 
postponed  or  denied  ;  and  how  he  had  communicated  his 
belief  that  that  government  was  not  disposed  to  make  any 
settlement,  as  he  had  lost  confidence  in  their  desire  or  inten- 
tion to  do  justice  to  the  claims  made  upon  them.  The 
interruption  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Commission  at  Phila- 
delphia, under  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity  and 
Commerce,  afforded  a  pretence  for  most  unworthy  charges 
against  the  character  of  the  American  Government,  which 
were  promptly  and  indignantly  denied  by  Mr.  King,  and 
now  the  mission  to  France,  it  was  feared,  would  give  color 
to  a  charge  that  it  was  the  intention  to  foster  French  com- 
merce to  the  injury  of  that  of  England,  and  was  therefore 
an  inimicalact  which  England  would  resent  against  the 
United  States,  and  thus  check  every  amicable  settlement  of 
claims. 

It  will  readily  be  seen  that  there  were  many  causes  for 
anxiety  on  the  part  of  Mr.  King,  in  dealing  with  this  com- 
plicated condition  of  the  relations  of  the  European  coun- 
tries, and  especially  as  affected  by  what  his  friends  in  the 
United  States  considered  the  unwise  course  of  the  President, 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  1 69 

who  would  not  listen  to  advice  and  alienated  the  best  friends 
of  the  country.  His  own  duty  was  a  plain  one  to  insist 
firmly  upon  the  rights  of  that  country — especially  as  his 
government  never  faltered  in  the  determination  to  obtain 
them — a  conduct  which  won  their  approbation,  while  it  in- 
creased his  influence  with  the  British  Minister. 

It  may  be  here  noticed  that  the  Allies  on  the  Continent 
opposed  to  France  were,  as  it  would  seem,  hopelessly  em- 
bittered against  each  other  and  that  unity  of  action  was  for 
the  time  arrested.  Russia  had  withdrawn  her  troops,  or  was 
doing  so,  from  co-operation  with  Austria  in  Italy  and 
Switzerland,  but  she  had  made  treaties  with  Sweden  and 
Norway  and  Denmark,  by  which  these  countries  could  no 
longer  supply  the  French,  which  they  had  done,  as  neu- 
trals ;  and  Prussia  still  continued  to  hold  herself  aloof  from 
any  connection  with  France  or  the  Allies.  France  was, 
under  the  new  regime,  doing  what  she  could  to  recover  her 
losses  on  the  battle-field.  The  United  States  was  the  only 
country  from  which  she  could  look  for  help,  and  therefore 
she  seemed  to  be  anxious  to  receive  the  new  Envoys  with 
an  apparent  change  of  policy  in  shaping  her  commercial  re- 
lations with  that  country,  and  England,  looked  with  unfavor- 
able eyes  upon  the  possible  making  of  a  new  treaty  with 
France,  which  would  virtually  interfere  with  the  advanta- 
geous commerce,  which  her  position,  as  well  as  other  reasons, 
seemed  to  warrant  her  to  consider  properly  her  own. 

This  summary  of  the  existing  and  possible  change  of 
affairs  in  Europe  will  show  the  difficulties  which  might,  and 
did,  embarrass  the  American  Minister  in  pushing  the  inter- 
ests of  his  own  country,  without  estranging  the  good-will  of 
England,  and  embroiling  the  United  States  in  her  hostile 
measures  against  France.  It  required  an  amount  of  tact  and 
good  judgment,  which  the  following  correspondence  will 
show  was  not  wanting  on  his  part. 


170  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  January  1,  1800. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Since  my  last  letter  to  you,  we  have  been  so  unfortunate  as  to 
lose  our  good  and  great  General  Washington.  He  died  on  the 
14th  ult.  of  an  inflammation  in  his  throat  owing  to  a  cold  he  had 
taken.  His  illness  lasted  but  about  24  hours  and  during  the 
whole  time  he  was  perfectly  possessed  of  his  senses,  calm  and  re- 
signed. .  .  .  No  man,  who  was  not  amongst  us  when  his 
death  was  announced,  can  realize  the  profound  grief  which  the 
mournful  event  universally  occasioned.  The  emotions  in  every 
breast,  too  big  for  utterance,  held  the  mind  for  some  time  in  a 
state  of  complete  inactivity.  All  business  was  suspended  and  the 
only  object  of  attention  after  the  mind  recovered  its  usual  tone, 
was  the  manner  of  paying  suitable  honor  to  the  memory  of  the 
illustrious  founder  of  our  Empire. 

We  soon  had  the  public  well  collected  and  the  result  was  the 
appointment  of  a  general  committee  with  plenary  powers  to  form 
a  plan  and  carry  it  into  effect.  The  plan  was  a  grand  civil  and 
military  procession  to  be  concluded  by  a  funeral  oration  to  be 
delivered  by  Gouverneur  Morris,  and  yesterday  was  the  day  on 
which  the  affecting  tragedy  was  acted.  .  .  .  The  awful  gran- 
deur of  the  scene — the  heartrending  notes  of  the  musick — the 
melancholy  sound  of  the  bells — the  tears  which  were  constantly 
flowing  from  every  eye — What  shall  I  say  ?  The  subject  over- 
whelms me,  and  I  have  not  words  to  express  my  feelings. 

At  church,  where  the  oration  was  pronounced,  we  had  a  short 
but  excellent  prayer  from  Bishop  Provoost.  When  Mr.  Morris 
rose  to  speak,  all  was  profound  silence  !  Perhaps  upon  no  occa- 
sion was  more  expected  from  an  orator  than  was  expected  from 
Mr.  Morris  on  the  mournful  event  he  was  to  commemorate.  Had 
ever  an  orator  a  sublimer  theme  for  the  display  of  his  eloquence  ? 
No — And  yet,  my  good  friend,  I  left  the  church  a  most  mortified 
and  wounded  man  !  Not  a  tear  was  compelled  to  roll  !  hardly 
was  a  sigh  excited  !  The  oration,  take  the  toute  ensemble,  had 
the  effect  of  a  cold  historical  narrative,  not  that  of  a  warm  and 
impassioned  address.  ...  I  give  you  this  character  of  the 
oration  merely  from  my  feelings.  ...  I  have  no  doubt  how- 
ever that  when  the  oration  comes   to  be  read,  it  will  be  found  to 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  171 


contain  good  sense  clothed  in  very  classical  language.  The 
whole  city,  except  amongst  our  particular  friends  is  expressing  its 
disappointment.  Such  a  failure  will  be  apt  to  deter  others  from 
making  attempts  hereafter  !  Indeed  for  various  reasons  the  mis- 
fortune is  to  be  deplored.  I  give  this  account  merely  for  your  own 
use.  It  would  be  a  source  of  deep  regret  to  me  to  hear  that  I 
had  given  currency  to  a  report  injurious  to  Mr.  Morris'  talents. 
I  have  a  great  respect  for  them,  and  I  have  always  esteemed  his 
virtues.  .  .  .  The  whole  nation  at  present  exhibits  all  the 
symbols  and  badges  of  grief.  Our  churches  are  all  hung  with 
black  cloth,  and  our  bells  have  long  been  muffled.  The  tongue 
of  envy  and  malice  is  dumb — and  not  a  word  and  not  a  whisper 
is  heard  from  any  mouth  but  in  the  General's  praise.     .     .     . 

Jefferson  has  just  arrived  in  Philadelphia.  He  has  taken  care 
to  avoid  all  ceremonies  of  respect  to  the  memory  of  General  Wash- 
ington. .  .  .  Burr  appeared  to  take  no  part  in  our  late  honors 
to  the  memory  of  General  Washington, 

Yours, 

R.  T. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

{Private.) 

Philadelphia,  January  3,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

My  official  letter  of  the  31st  ulto.  announces  the  determination 
of  the  President  that  Mr.  Sitgreaves  should  go  to  London.  The 
idea  was  suggested  by  his  colleague,  Mr.  Fitzsimons.  It  struck 
me  agreeably,  and  I  mentioned  it  to  the  President,  who  said  he 
would  consider  of  it.  The  same  evening  at  his  house,  Mr.  Sit- 
greaves being  present,  the  President  mentioned  the  proposition  of 
his  going  to  London,  and  expressed  strongly  his  approbation. 
This  was  unexpected — for  if  any  one  of  the  heads  of  Departments 
(all  were  present)  was  of  a  different  opinion,  it  could  not  well 
have  been  expressed.  Today  Mr.  Wolcott,  upon  my  speaking  of 
the  project  manifested  his  fears  of  the  consequences.  He  ap- 
prehended that  it  might  not  be  grateful  to  you  ;  and  that  Mr. 
Sitgreaves  himself,  seeing  he  could  appear  only  as  a  private 
American  citizen,  would  eventually  be  dissatisfied.  That  Mr. 
Macdonald  would  of  course  return  to  London,  and  that  the  pres- 


172  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

ence  of  him  and  Mr.  Sitgreaves  might  produce  there  the  like 
feuds,  as  unhappily  existed  in  the  Board. 

These  could  be  real  evils,  and  I  shall  be  extremely  pained,  if 
either  of  them  should  flow  from  Mr.  Sitgreaves'  voyage  to  London. 
If  you  were  a  subordinate  diplomatic  character,  the  surmise  would 
not  be  unnatural  that  Mr.  Sitgreaves  was  sent  to  supply  your 
defects.  But  your  superior  talents,  well  known  among  all  the 
public  men  in  London,  and  universally  acknowledged  in  your 
own  country,  must  repel  every  idea  of  the  kind  ;  and  it  appears 
to  me  impossible  that  the  mission  of  Mr.  Sitgreaves  should  dero- 
gate from  your  dignity  and  well-established  fame.  On  the  contrary, 
I  conceived  that  Mr.  Sitgreaves  might  greatly  lessen  your  labour  in 
the  investigation  of  a  subject  incumbered  with  a  load  of  papers 
and  that  as  you  were  personally  acquainted  with  him,  and  could 
justly  appreciate  his  talents,  the  information  to  be  derived  from 
his  conversation  would  be  as  grateful  as  useful. 

With  respect  to  Mr.  Sitgreaves  himself,  he  perfectly  understands 
the  character  in  which  he  is  to  appear — that  of  a  private  A?ner- 
ican  Citizen,  and  that  as  such  only  you  will  introduce  him  where- 
ever  you  accompany  him. 

To  prevent  collision  between  him  and  Mr.  Macdonald,  they 
need  never  see  each  other.  But  if  their  several  communications 
to  their  respective  Ministers  are  to  produce  dissension,  doubtless 
Mr.  Macdonald's  letters  have  already  laid  the  foundation  for  it : 
doubtless  they  may  already  have  produced  prejudices  injurious  at 
least  to  the  American  Commissioners,  if  not  to  the  Government  and 
Nation.  In  this  point  of  view,  I  thought  it  of  some  importance  that 
particular  accusations  or  reproaches  might  receive  a  contradiction 
from  a  Member  as  well  informed  and  as  worthy  of  credit  ;  for 
it  would  be  impracticable  for  you  to  send  to  America  for  this 
reputation.  Not  that  I  suppose  you  would  ever  start  any  subject 
of  altercation,  or  engage  in  any  discussion  not  regularly  connected 
with  the  questions  of  negotiation  ;  and  certainly  Lord  Grenville  and 
you  will  not  suffer  any  personal  animosities  of  those  two  Commis- 
sioners to  disturb  the  tranquillity  of  your  conferences,  or  to  affect 
the  amity  subsisting  between  the  two  nations.  Mr.  Sitgreaves' 
presence  by  enabling  you  to  give  the  other  side  of  every  question, 
and  to  remove  prejudices  ought  to  promote  and  secure,  instead  of 
hazarding  the  existing  friendship 


:8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  173 


I  hope  these  ideas  are  not  visionary  ;  but  however  you  may 
view  this  measure,  I  trust  you  will  believe  in  the  purity  of  my  in- 
tentions, and  that  I  am  and  ever  shall  be  desirous  of  maintaining 
the  honour  and  respect  to  which  your  character  justly  entitles  you 
and  with  which 

I  remain,  sincerely  your  friend  &  ob.  Servt. 

Timothy  Pickering. 


A.  Hamilton  to  R.  King 


* 


New  York,  Jany.  5,  1800. 

It  is  indeed  a  long  time,  my  dear  Sir,  since  I  have  written  to 
you,  and  I  feel  my  obligation  to  you  for  the  continuance  of  your 
correspondence,  notwithstanding  my  delinquency. 

Had  it  been  true  that  I  had  left  everything  else  to  follow  the 
drum,  my  delinquency  would  not  have  been  so  great.  But  our 
military  establishment  offers  too  little  inducement,  and  is  too  pre- 
carious to  have  permitted  a  total  dereliction  of  professional  pur- 
suits. The  double  occupation  occasioned  by  these  added  mili- 
tary duties,  and  the  attention  which  circumstances  call  me  to  pay 
to  collateral  objects,  engage  my  time  more  than  ever,  and  leave 
me  less  leisure  to  communicate  with  distant  friends.  .  .  I  must 
however,  give  you  some  sketch  of  our  affairs.  At  home  every- 
thing is  in  the  main  well  ;  except  as  to  the  perverseness  and  capri- 
ciousness  of  one  and  the  spirit  of  faction  of  many.  Our  measures 
from  the  first  cause  are  too  much  the  effect  of  momentary  impulse. 
Vanity  and  jealousy  exclude  all  counsel.  Passion  wrests  the  helm 
from  reason. 

The  irreparable  loss  of  an  estimable  man  removes  the  control 
that  was  felt,  and  was  very  salutary. 

The  leading  friends  of  the  government,  are  in  a  sad  dilemma. 
Shall  they  risk  a  serious  schism  by  an  attempt  to  change  ?  Or 
shall  they  annihilate  themselves  and  hazard  their  cause  by  contin- 
uing to  uphold  those  who  suspect  and  hate  them,  and  who  are 
likely  to  pursue  a  course  for  no  better  reason  than  because  it  is 
contrary  to  that  which  they  approve? 

The  spirit  of  faction  is  abated  nowhere.  In  Virginia  it  is  more 
violent  than  ever.     It  seems  demonstrated  that  the  leaders  there, 

*  Works  of  Hamilton,  vi.,  416. 


174  RUFUS  KING,  [1800 

who  possess  completely  all  the  powers  of  the  local  government,  are 
resolved  to  possess  those  of  the  national,  by  the  most  dangerous 
combinations  ;  and,  if  they  cannot  effect  this,  to  resort  to  the  em- 
ployment of  physical  force.  The  want  of  disposition  in  the  people 
to  second  them,  will  be  the  only  preventive.  It  is  believed  that  it 
will  be  an  effectual  one. 

In  the  two  houses  of  Congress  we  have  a  decided  majority. 
But  the  dread  of  unpopularity  is  likely  to  paralyze  it,  and  to 
prevent  the  erection  of  additional  buttresses  to  the  constitution,  a 
fabric  which  can  hardly  be  stationary,  and  which  will  retrograde 
if  it  cannot  be  made  to  advance. 

In  the  mass  of  the  people  the  dispositions  are  not  bad.  An  at- 
tachment to  the  system  of  peace  continues.  No  project  contrary 
to  it  could  easily  find  favor.  Good  will  towards  the  government, 
in  my  opinion,  predominates  ;  though  a  numerous  party  is  still 
actuated  by  an  opposite  sentiment,  and  some  vague  discontents 
have  a  more  diffused  influence.  Sympathy  with  the  French  Revo- 
lution acts  in  a  much  narrower  circle  than  formerly,  but  the 
jealousy  of  monarchy,  which  is  as  actual  as  ever,  still  furnishes  a 
handle  by  which  the  factions  mislead  well  meaning  persons. 

In  our  councils  there  is  no  fixed  plan.  Some  are  for  preserving 
and  invigorating  the  navy  and  destroying  the  army.  Some  among 
the  friends  of  government  for  diminishing  both  on  pecuniary 
considerations. 

My  plan  is  to  complete  the  navy  to  the  contemplated  extent  ; 
say  six  ships  of  the  line,  twelve  frigates  and  twenty-four  sloops  of 
war  ;  to  make  no  alteration  for  the  present  as  to  the  military  force  ; 
and  finally,  to  preserve  the  organs  of  the  existing  force,  reducing 
the  men  to  a  very  moderate  number.  For  this  plan  there  are  vari- 
ous reasons  that  appear  to  me  solid.  I  must  doubt,  however,  that 
it  will  finally  prevail. 

The  recent  depredations  of  the  British  cruisers,  sanctioned  in 
various  instances  by  the  courts,  have  rekindled  in  many  hearts  an 
animosity,  which  was  fast  being  extinguished.  Such  persons  think 
they  see  in  this  circumstance  a  new  proof  of  friendship  towards 
this  country  on  the  part  of  Great  Britain  which  will  always  be 
measured  by  the  scale  of  her  success.  A  very  perplexing  conflict 
of  sensations  is  the  result  of  this  impression. 

I  must  hasten  to  a  conclusion.     It  was  unnecessary  for  me  to 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  1 75 

have  told  you  that  for  the  loss  of  our  illustrious  friend  every  heart 
is  mourning.     Adieu. 

God  bless  you. 
P.  S. — Who  is  to  be  Commander-in-Chief  ?     Not  the  next  in 
command.     The  appointment  will  probably  be  deferred. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Gr.  Cumb.  Place,  Jany.  7,  1800. 
My  Lord  : 

I  some  time  since  mentioned  to  your  Ldp.  that  my  instructions 
relative  to  the  suspension  of  the  Commission  under  the  6th  Art.  of 
our  treaty  of  Amity  and  Commerce  were  delayed  for  a  full  report 
that  the  American  Commissioners  were  preparing  upon  that  sub- 
ject, &  which  was  retarded  by  the  unavoidable  interruption  occa- 
sioned by  the  contagious  fever  that  for  some  months  prevailed  at 
Philada.  By  the  October  Packet,  Col.  Pickering  expressed  to  me 
his  concern  lest  from  the  same  cause  &  the  consequent  dispersion 
of  the  Members  of  our  Govt.,  he  shd.  not  be  able  to  send  me  these 
instructions  earlier  than  by  the  December  Packet.  Notwithstand- 
ing this  intimation  I  was  not  without  hopes  that  they  might  be 
prepared  in  season  to  have  been  received  by  the  Packet  of  No- 
vember that  arrived  on  Friday  last.  By  her  I  have  received 
Dispatches  from  Col.  Pickering  which  inform  me  that  the  public 
offices,  which  had  been  removed  from  Philada.  during  the  fever, 
had  just  returned  &  that  as  soon  as  the  President  arrived  in 
Philada.,  which  would  happen  in  a  few  days  after  the  date  of  my 
Letters,  my  instructions  would  be  submitted  to  him  for  his  appro- 
bation. I  therefore  expect  to  receive  them  by  the  packet  that 
leaves  the  United  States  early  in  December.  This  packet  will  be 
due  on  the  14th  inst.,  and  may  be  daily  expected.  No  time  shall 
be  lost  after  the  receipt  of  my  instructions  in  the  sincere  endeavor 
to  concert  with  your  Ldp.  such  arrangements  as  being  calculated 
to  establish  the  just  and  equitable  views  of  the  Parties,  will  operate 
to  preserve  the  usual  intercourse  &  Harmony  on  which  in  some 
degree  depend  the  mutual  Prosperity  of  the  two  countries. 

With  perfect  consideration  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1/6  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

{Private?) 

Dropmore,  Jany.  11,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  inclose  you  the  letter  which  I  have  received  from  Mr.  Liston  * 
with  the  only  one  of  the  inclosures  which  you  probably  have  not. 
Observing  the  use  which  Mr.  Pickering  makes  of  your  communica- 
tions you  will  not  be  surprised  at  my  desiring  from  you  as  a  man  of 
honour  a  promise  that  this  communication  shall  not  go  beyond 
yourself.  I  make  it  in  order  that  you  may  see  the  subject  such  as 
it  is  now  laid  before  me  &  brought  to  its  issue.  I  think  you  are 
too  candid  and  just  to  imagine  that  men  doing  their  duty  to  their 
country,  can  see  in  the  delay  of  sending  your  instructions  any- 
other  object  but  the  delay.  It  is  not,  however,  for  the  purpose  of 
putting  you  in  the  unpleasing  difficulty  of  either  acknowledging 
that  which  must  be  painful  for  you  to  acknowledge,  or  defending 

*  Mr.  Liston's  (No.  60)  to  Lord  Grenville,  concerning  the  stoppage  of  the 
Proceedings  of  the  Commission,  under  the  sixth  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity, 
by  the  refusal  of  the  American  Members  to  attend.  This  incloses  a  letter  from 
these  Commrs.  giving  the  reasons  for  their  action,  with  a  Copy  of  a  letter  from 
Col.  Pickering  written  to  Peter  Porcupine  (William  Cobbett),  attempting  "to 
justify  the  conduct  of  the  American  Commissioners  by  the  argument  perpetually 
and  triumphantly  brought  forward  in  their  favor  in  this  country  (U.  S.),  the 
Example  of  those  of  G.  Britain  acting  under  the  7th  Article  of  the  Treaty." 
This  letter  of  Col.  Pickering  is  dated  Phil.  Aug.  19,  1799,  and  contains  among 
other  things  the  following  : 

"  The  simple  fact  is,  that  the  British  &  American  Commrs.  differ  totally  on 
some  fundamental  principles — and  there  being  no  way  but  that  of  secession  to 
avoid  their  sweeping  effects,  the  Amern.  Commrs.  have  seceded.  This  is  not  a 
novelty.  The  Commrs.  in  London,  under  the  7th  Article  of  the  Treaty,  differed 
in  certain  points,  &  the  two  British  Commrs.  twice  seceded.  By  the  friendly 
communications  between  Mr.  King,  the  Amer.  Minr. ,  &  Lord  Grenville  &  the 
Lord  Chancellor,  the  difficulties  were  removed,  the  points  contended  for  by  the 
British  Commrs.  were  abandoned  by  their  Government  &  the  Commission  pro- 
ceeded. One  of  those  points  the  Lord  Chancellor  frankly  told  Mr.  King  was 
absurd  !  I  hope  &  I  trust  that  not  one  of  the  principles  insisted  on  by  the  Amer. 
Comrs.  here  &  for  which  they  have  seceded,  will  be  found  to  merit  a  similar 
Epithet.  Nothing  was  said  of  these  British  Secessions  seeing  the  causes  were 
satisfactorily  removed  &  the  manifest  interests  of  the  two  Nations  rendered 
mutual  silence  expedient.  A  like  course  by  negotiation  will  now  be  pursued. 
Mr.  King  will  be  instructed  on  the  subject  &  I  have  no  doubt  of  an  amicable 
result.  I  am  &c.  Timothy  Pickering." 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  \JJ 


that  which  is  indefensible,  that  I  trouble  you  with  this  confidential 
letter.  It  is  simply  to  ask  whether  anything  has  come  to  your 
knowledge  which  varies  the  state  of  this  case,  such  as  it  is  repre- 
sented in  Mr.  Liston's  letter,  &  such  as  I  must  therefore  bring  it 
under  the  immediate  consideration  of  the  King's  servants. 

No  man  more  laments  this  state  of  things  than  myself.  No  one 
has  gone,  or  would  have  gone  greater  lengths  to  avoid  it,  &  I  am 
sure,  if  the  thing  had  been  possible,  I  should  have  found  in  you  a 
hearty  co-operation.  But  when  the  business  is  brought  to  its  issue 
we  must  do  our  respective  duties  &  hope  we  shall  do  so  without 
diminishing  that  personal  esteem  which  I  flatter  myself  is  mutual 
and  with  which  I  shall  ever  be 

Most  sincerely,  my  dear  sir,  your  faithful  humble  Servant, 

Grenville. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

{Private.) 

Jany.  13,  1800. 

My  Lord  : 

Having  written  the  enclosed  letter  to  yr.  Ldp.,  I  will  not  detain 
it  for  my  answer  to  yr.  Ldp.'s  letter  of  the  nth  instant,  which  I 
will  send  as  soon  as  the  Copy  of  a  lengthy  Paper,  that  I  propose 
should  accompany  it,  can  be  made. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  &c. 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

{Private.) 

Great  Cumbd.  Place,  Jany.  13,  1800. 
My  Lord  : 

I  return  Mr.  Liston's  letter  with  its  enclosure  &  desire  yr.  Ldp. 
to  be  assured  that  I  shall  consider  them  together  with  yr.  Ldp's 
letter  as  a  communication  strictly  personal  and  confidential. 

Your  Lordship  can  be  at  no  loss  to  discriminate  between  the 
Duty  of  a  Foreign  Minister  in  the  full  &  unreserved  information 
he  gives  to  his  Gov't  and  the  prudence  that  in  all  countries  should 
restrain  the  unnecessary  publication  of  his  correspondence.  I 
will  only  add  upon  this  subject  what  I  flatter  myself  is  in  some  de- 

VOL   III — 12 


178  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

gree  unnecessary  to  remark  to  your  Lordship  that  on  all  occasions 
I  have  aimed  at  accuracy  as  well  as  impartiality  in  my  communi- 
cations of  whatever  passed  between  any  member  of  the  Br.  Gov't 
&  myself.  On  the  present  occasion  I  have  concluded  to  send 
your  Ldp.  in  confidence  an  entire  copy  of  my  letter  to  Col.  Pick- 
ering referred  to  in  his  letter  to  Mr.  Cobbett,  in  order  that  yr. 
Ldp.  as  well  as  the  Ld.  Chancellor  may  be  enabled  to  appreciate 
the  justice  of  the  preceeding  remark.  The  aim  of  Mr  Liston's 
letter  appears  to  be  not  only  to  vindicate  the  character  of  his 
countryman  Mr.  Macdonald  &  to  sanction  by  his  opinion  the 
proceedings  of  the  three  British  Commrs.,  but  to  fix  upon  the 
American  Govt,  the  charge  of  an  intentional  Delay  in  preparing 
its  instructions  to  me  upon  the  subject  of  the  disagreement  be- 
tween the  American  &  British  Commrs.  In  respect  to  the  first, 
I  can  perceive  no  advantage  in  adding  a  single  reflection  to  those 
that  must  unavoidably  suggest  themselves  to  any  impartial  &  un- 
prejudiced individual,  who  reads  the  papers  exchanged  between 
the  Commrs.  In  a  public  note  that  I  have  this  morning  sent  to 
yr.  Lp.  I  have  stated  the  purport  of  the  information  that  I  have 
reed,  from  Col.  Pickering,  accounting  for  the  delay  that  has 
occurred  in  the  completion  of  my  instructions,  which  I  am  in 
daily  expectation  of  receiving.  I  will  not,  however,  conceal  from 
yr.  Ldp.  my  regrets  that  this  delay  has  happened,  because,  purely 
casual  as  I  believe  it  to  have  been,  when  seen  solely  in  connexion 
with  some  other  contemporaneous  occurrences,  it  has  appeared  to 
me  capable  of  producing  the  very  effect  that  by  the  tenor  of  yr. 
Ldp's  letter  I  am  sorry  to  perceive  it  has  done. 

So  far  from  feeling  any  embarrassment  in  consequence  of  yr. 
Ldp's  letter  I  am  glad  of  the  occasion  it  affords  me  of  assuring 
you,  that  the  suspicion  which  yr.  Ldp.  appears  to  entertain  with 
so  little  hesitation,  is  not  only  unsupported  by  a  single  presump- 
tion within  my  knowledge,  but  it  is  my  sincere  &  firm  persuasion 
that  time  will  shew  that  it  is  incapable  of  support.  That  Delay 
can  be  sought  for  Delay's  sake,  and  with  the  intention  at  the  same 
time  of  a  fair  and  ultimate  adjustment  of  the  disagreement  be- 
tween the  Commissrs.  is  a  supposition  that  will  not  gain  credit 
with  yr.  Ldp.,  nor  with  any  one  not  heated  by  personal  contro- 
versy, which  is  almost  sure  to  throw  even  the  fairest  minds  off 
their  natural  Bias.     But  if  other  measures  in  themselves  of  im- 


l8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  \ 79 


portance  are  supposed  to  be  combined  with  the  Delay  in  question, 
I  am  free  to  admit  that  it  loses  the  character  of  casualty  that 
constitutes  its  apology  ;  or  to  speak  more  plainly,  if  the  Delay  is 
believed  to  be  intended  for  the  purpose  of  giving  an  opportunity 
to  our  Envoys  to  ascertain  the  result  of  a  previous  negotiation 
with  France,  it  would  be  natural  to  expect  that  yr.  Ldp.  should 
see  &  recommend  to  others  to  act  upon  the  subject  in  the  obnox- 
ious light  in  which  it  has  been  represented.     But  my  conviction 
that  this  cannot  be  the  fact  arises  not  only  from  the  respect  I  feel 
myself  inclined  to  bestow  upon  the  integrity  of  the  Govt.  I  serve, 
but  from  my  intimate  knowledge  of  the  sentiments  and  of  the 
manner  of  thinking  of  almost  every  member  in  its  administration. 
Nor  is  it  from  the  public  relation  I  bear  to  these  characters,  that 
I  arrive  at  this  Confidence  ;  it  proceeds  from  having  acted  with 
them  in  the  public  service  for  a  series  of  years,  in  the  course  of 
which  frequent  occasions  occurred  that  called  forth  their  opinions 
upon  analogous  subjects.     The  President,  as  well  as  his  Ministers, 
were  all  of  them  in  favour  of  the  adoption  of  the  Treaty  negotiated 
by  yr.  Ldp  and  Mr  Jay,  a  fact,  by  itself,  it  seems  to  me,  sufficient 
to  do  away  the  suspicion  of  a  Plan  calculated  to  overturn  one  of 
the  most  public  &  important  measures  of  their  Lives  ;  for  the 
decision  of  that  question  was  considered  as  deciding  (and  that 
too  in  a  state  of  the  public  opinion,  as  well  as  of  the  relative 
situation  of  Engd.  &  France,  very  different  from  the  present)  the 
degree  of  intimacy  &  political  friendship  that  our  welfare  and 
prosperity  required  that  we  should  maintain  with  the  former  of 
these  Countries  in  opposition  to  the  wishes  of  the  latter.     Your 
Ldp.  cannot  be  unacquainted   either  with  the  exertions  of  our 
Governmt.   aided  by  the  very  characters  now  at  the  head  of  its 
affairs,  together  with  the  most  enlightened  and  influential  men  in 
all  parts  of  our  Country,  to  accomplish  this  purpose,  or  with  the 
dissatisfaction  that  immediately  manifested  itself  in  France  upon 
the  establishment  of  good  will  &  harmony  between  our  respective 
Countries.     What  reason  then  can  be  suggested,  &  especially  in 
the  present  condition  of  the  affairs  of  France  for  a  change  in  this 
well  considered  system  of  Policy  ?     a  system  that  our  uniform 
conduct,   as  well   as   our  military  preparations   in   opposition   to 
France,  have  given  satisfactory  proof  of  a  disposition  to  maintain. 
I  have  heard  of  none,  nor  am  I  able  to  conjecture  any,  unless  it 


l8o  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

be  the  unfounded  as  well  as  inadequate  one,  of  avoiding  the  Pay- 
ment of  the  Debts  secured  to  British  creditors  by  the  Treaty  of 
1783  :  I  say  unfounded,  because  I  possess  the  recent  unqualified 
&  explicit  assurance  of  the  President,  communicated  thro'  Col. 
Pickering,  that  he  entertains  a  firm  determination  to  give  complete 
effect  to  the  stipulations  upon  this  subject  of  the  Treaty  of  1795, 
&  that  the  overtures  that  I  shall  be  authorized  to  make  to  his 
Majesty's  Gov't  will  be  calculated  fully  to  attain  this  salutary  end. 
I  consider  this  reason  is  inadequate,  because  the  obvious  conse- 
quence would  be  the  loss  of  all  compensation  of  the  claims  of 
American  citizens  under  the  7th  article  of  the  same  Treaty,  which, 
as  to  the  mass  of  these  claims,  remains  unexecuted  &  constitutes 
an  interest  under  the  controul  of  G.  B.  that  may  be  considered  as 
equivalent  to  that  of  the  Posts,  which  while  in  his  Majesty's  pos- 
session were  thought  an  adequate  Pledge  for  the  payment  of  the 
Debts  due  to  Br.  Subjects. 

I  cannot  refrain  from  pursuing  this  subject  a  little  further,  and 
always  on  the  supposition  that  is  contested.  If  the  gaining  of 
time  to  ascertain  the  issue  of  the  negotiations  with  France,  is  the 
object  of  the  Delays,  it  must  be  with  the  intention  of  a  fair  and 
satisfactory  settlement  of  the  disagreement  between  the  Commis- 
sioners, in  case  the  negotiation  fails — an  event  that  wd.  be  certain 
to  lessen  the  probability  of  such  a  settlement,  or  it  must  be  with  the 
expectation  of  an  open  rupture  in  case  the  mission  to  Paris  should 
effect  a  restoration  of  the  former  intercourse  &  harmony  between 
France  &  America.  If  we  were  restrained  by  no  other  considera- 
tion, wd.  it  not  be  to  ascribe  to  our  Govt,  an  incapacity  &  want 
of  foresight  greater  than  anything  in  its  character  will  warrant, 
and  beyond  what  any  Govt,  has  shown,  to  believe  that  we  are 
willing  to  incur  the  certain  losses  that  from  an  extensive  naviga- 
tion we  should  be  sure  to  sustain,  and  the  unavoidable  expense 
&  derangement  to  which  we  should  be  exposed  in  the  course  of  a 
war,  at  the  conclusion  of  which  we  might  be  required  and  should 
perhaps  consent  to  do  what  upon  the  assumed  hypothesis,  we 
entered  into  the  war  to  avoid  ? 

I  abstain  from  touching  upon  those  other  considerations,  which 
respect  the  nature  and  continuance  of  our  present  relations  to 
Gr.  Britain,  so  dissimilar  from  those  subsisting  between  us  & 
France,  or  upon  some  other  Topics  that  your  Ldp.  will  doubtless 


:8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  l8l 


examine  &  particularly  as  they  may  be  supposed  to  relate  to  the 
further  extension  of  the  false  &  dangerous  notions  in  Morality 
&  Politics  which  have  been  and  continue  to  be  the  source  of  so 
much  mischief  in  Europe,  and  which  I  am  confident  yr.  Ldp. 
would  sincerely  regret  to  see  prevail  in  America.  I  cannot  how- 
ever help  observing  that  situated  as  Mr.  Liston  was  at  the  date  of 
his  dispatch,  (the  Epoch  of  the  order  for  our  Envoys  to  proceed 
to  Paris)  in  a  scene  much  agitated  by  a  recent  popular  Election, 
which  seems  to  have  excited  in  an  unusual  degree  the  public 
passions  &  prejudices,  he  was  in  some  measure  disqualified  to 
judge  of  the  real  public  opinion  of  the  country,  &  in  some  danger 
of  confounding  the  great  mass  of  the  Nation  with  the  zealots  by 
whom  he  was  surrounded.  The  like  observation  applies  to  his 
remark  upon  the  unfair  use  of  the  American  Presses.  I  will  say 
nothing  concerning  the  vindication  that  was  intended  to  have 
been  published,  nor  of  the  impediment  that  is  supposed  to  have 
prevented  it.  But  confident  as  I  am  of  the  Error  of  the  opinion 
that  ascribes  to  us  a  systematic  plan  to  elude  the  performance  of 
a  public  Engagement,  I  am  unwilling  to  close  this  letter  without 
repeating  to  your  Lordship  my  firm  Persuasion  that  the  Delay 
has  proceeded  from  causes  altogether  foreign  to  those  that  have 
been  imagined,  &  that  with  a  little  Patience  we  shall  in  a  little 
time  see  the  refutation  of  the  former  of  these  opinions,  in  the 
evidence  that  will  be  exhibited  in  confirmation  of  the  latter. 

With  sincere  esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

Cabot  to  King — President  in  private  Circles  distrusts  France — Opinions  of 
leading  Men  on  the  Result  of  the  Mission — Especially  of  the  southern 
Politicians — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Disposition  to  couple  Delay  in 
his  Instructions  with  Mission  to  France — Has  positively  stated  that  is  not 
so — Yet  feels  himself  embarrassed — Nothing  will  be  done  until  these  in- 
jurious Suspicions  are  removed — Envoys  not  yet  in  France — England, 
Russia,  and  the  Porte  pledged  not  to  make  a  separate  Peace  with  France 
— King  to  Troup — Thought  in  England  the  Envoys  will  make  a  Treaty — 
Cannot  see  how  when  Mission  once  broached  it  could  be  laid  aside — Lord 
Buchan — Condolence  on  the  Death  of  Washington — King  to  Troup — Death 
of  Washington — His  character  a  steadying  Power — To  Secretary  of  State 
— Unfair  and  dishonest  Condemnation  by  French  Prize  Tribunals  used  by 
English  Underwriters  against  Americans — King  to  Lord  Grenville — 
Georgia  Records  lost  during  the  War — Sedgwick  to  King — Bankrupt  Bill 
and  proposed  Amendments — Pickering  to  King — Hopes  that  an  equitable 
Adjustment  relative  to  Commission  on  6th  Article  may  soon  be  made — 
President's  Sense  of  Injury  done  by  the  unjust  Suspicions. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

January  20,  1800. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

We  feel  now  many  of  the  ill  effects  which  the  mission  to  France 
was  supposed  likely  to  produce.  The  firm  and  active  supporters 
of  antijacobin  politics  are  no  longer  trusted  or  countenanced  by 

the  P nt,  on  the  contrary  he  thinks  or  affects  to  think  them 

his  enemies,  and  in  this  description  are  included  Pg,  Wt.  & 
McHy.  The  embarrassment  is  felt  everywhere  and  no  one  of 
the  Leading  Politicians  at  Phila.  con  suits  freely  or  is  consulted  by 
the  others.  Moderate  men  are  made  jealous  of  their  guides  and 
all  the  temporizing  Federalists  incline  to  the  side  of  those  who> 
are  the  advocates  for  the  mission.     Some  would  think  it  strange,, 

182 


:8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 83 


butyou  will  not,  that  the  P.  shou'd  still  hold  the  same  antijacobin 
language  in  private  circles  he  used  to  do  before  the  mission  was 
proposed.  It  is  true  however  that  he  does  and  has  often  ex- 
pressed an  opinion  that  the  safety  of  our  country  requires  that 
full  scope  shou'd  be  given  to  the  sentiments  of  distrust,  indigna- 
tion and  even  detestation  toward  revy.  France.  It  is  pretended 
that  all  these  feelings,  which  are  just  and  necessary,  will  be 
revived  and  increased  by  the  mission  ;  that  the  overtures  of 
France  were  seen  to  be  insidious  and  intended  to  divide  us,  and 
that  our  measures  have  defeated  theirs  and  that  the  Directory 
are  totally  disappointed  of  their  aim,  while  we  are  consolidating 
our  union,  strengthening  our  Govt,  and  preparing  the  country  for 
a  unanimous  declaration  of  war. 

There  was  a  period  it  was  said  by  some  that  France  was  no 
longer  to  be  feared  and  that  a  general  peace  was  unavoidable. 
Then  again  it  was  said,  there  wou'd  be  no  peace,  but  the  allies 
from  success  would  be  insolent  and  dangerous,  so  that  policy 
required  every  weight  to  be  thrown  into  an  opposite  scale  to  pre- 
serve the  equilibrium  of  Europe.  Nov/  it  is  discovered  that  the 
coalition  is  dissolving  ;  France  renewing  her  triumphs,  confirm- 
ing her  power,  ought  to  be  conciliated  by  those  who  wou'd  avoid 
the  vengeance  of  an  irritated  and  virtuous  nation.  All  these 
speculations  in  their  turn  amuse  without  satisfying  us,  and  leave 
us  to  lament  that  our  own  course  was  plain  on  every  supposition 
and  that  we  have  unadvisedly  diverted  from  it. 

The  Southern  opposition  men  say  that  the  P.  has  been  forced 
by  public  opinion  to  attempt  negotiation  again  contrary  to  his  own 
wishes,  but  that  he  has  selected  improper  persons,  and  by  the 
advice  of  bad  ministers  has  demanded  such  terms  as  must  render 
success  impracticable.  They  admit,  however,  he  has  some  merit 
in  listening  at  all  to  the  public  voice,  and  they  hope  much  from 
french  magnanimity  which  knows  how  to  appreciate  every  circum- 
stance and  will  doubtless  make  great  allowance  for  the  depressed 
state  of  Republicanism  under  the  present  administration.  On 
the  other  hand  the  Southern  Federalists  insist  that  the  whole  pro- 
ceeding is  sincere,  wise  &  prudent,  &  if  it  fails,  will  be  a  new  proof 
of  the  perfidy,  injustice  &  irreconcilable  enmity  of  the  French 
rulers. 

If  the  mission  succeeds,  the  antiswill  argue  from  it  that  all  the 


1 84  RUFUS  KING.  [18 


oo 


former  allegations  against  France  were  false  ;  and  if  it  fails,  they 
have  already  said  it  is  not  a  fair  trial  and  another  ought  to  be  made. 
These  views  of  the  subject  are  a  little  different  among  the 
Southern  Politicians  from  those  entertained  here  &  they  render 
a  union  of  action  difficult  between  the  Federalists  and  ours  ;  on 
their  ground  the  mission  is  justified,  on  ours  it  is  not. 

In  Congress,  you  see  Genl.  M.  is  a  leader.  He  is  I  think  a  vir- 
tuous &  certainly  an  able  man  ;  but  you  see  in  him  the  faults  of 
a  Virginian.  He  thinks  too  much  of  that  State,  &  he  expects  the 
world  will  be  governed  according  to  the  Rules  of  Logic.  I  have 
seen  such  men  often  become  excellent  legislators  after  experience 
has  cured  their  errors.  I  hope  it  will  prove  so  with  Genl.  M.,  who 
seems  calculated  to  act  a  great  part. 

I  am  greatly  chagrined  at  the  disastrous  close  of  a  Campaign, 
which  promised  everything  to  my  hopes.  The  States  of  Europe 
seem  to  have  profited  by  the  Revy.  lessons  as  little  as  we  have 
done.  I  trust  however  they  will  find  sufficient  instruments,  as 
they  certainly  possess  abundant  means,  to  crush  forever  the  mon- 
ster that  has  risen  in  France. 

Yours  faithfully  &  affectionately 


G.  C. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  58. 

London,  Jany.  22,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

A  disposition  has  appeared  to  couple  the  delay  that  has  occurred 
in  the  Transmission  of  the  instructions  concerning  the  disagree- 
ment between  the  commissioners  at  Philada.  with  the  Mission  to 
France.  The  influence  of  this  suspicion  upon  the  relations  be- 
tween the  U.  S.  &  Engd.  need  not  be  suggested.  It  has  been  my 
aim  to  do  away  this  impression  by  ascribing  the  Delay  to  the 
derangement  in  consequence  of  the  fever,  and  to  other  causes 
equally  foreign  to  those  that  have  been  imagined  ;  and  I  believe 
I  am  not  mistaken  in  supposing  that  the  subject  will  not  be 
brought  before  the  cabinet,  as  was  intended,  before  the  arrival  of 
the  next  packet.  Tho'  I  have  taken  care  not  to  state  positively, 
or  with  confidence,  that  the  instructions  will  be  sent  by  the  Deer. 


t8oo]  life  and  correspondence.  185 


Packet,  I  shall  deeply  regret,  &  may  be  much  embarrassed  in  case 
they  shd.  not  be,  for  with  the  temper  I  have  for  some  time  per- 
ceived, and  after  the  evidence  of  its  character  that  I  have  sent 
you,  I  should  not  be  disappointed  if  it  manifests  itself  to  our  dis- 
advantage on  the  first  occasion  that  may  be  deemed  convenient. 
I  receive  no  answers  to  the  notes,  copies  of  which  I  have  trans- 
mitted to  you,  nor  shall  I  receive  any  until  the  injurious  suspi- 
cions of  our  views  are  removed. 

I  omit  no  means  proper  to  be  employed  to  keep  things  in  a 
condition  favorable  to  a  candid  and  satisfactory  explanation  & 
adjustment.  In  doing  so  you  may  be  assured  that  I  maintain 
with  firmness  the  Rectitude  of  our  Govt,  preserving  always  a  due 
respect  for  those  to  whom  I  address  myself.  My  language  is  that 
we  are  &  shall  continue  to  be  just  to  every  nation  ;  that  we  desire 
to  avoid  misunderstandings  with  any  ;  and  having  entered  into 
no  engagements,  which  oblige  us  to  depart  from  this  system,  our 
efforts  to  remain  at  Peace  with  all  nations  cannot  be  the  occasion 
of  dissatisfaction  to  any. 

We  have  no  account  that  our  Envoys  have  reached  France, 
tho'  they  sailed  from  Lisbon  on  the  21st  of  Decemr.  It  is  mere 
conjecture  that  I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  they  will  be  received 
with  marks  of  respect  &  esteem,  &  that  they  will  conclude  a 
treaty.  Shod,  this  be  the  case,  I  hope  we  may  not  be  precipitate 
in  relinquishing  our  naval  &  military  preparations  ;  if  France  is 
insincere,  or  incapable  to  perform  what  she  promises,  we  shall 
again  want  them  ;  if  the  contrary  shd.  happen,  we  may  not  have 
less  occasion  for  them. 

The  newspapers  contain  the  whole  correspondence  between 
this  country  &  France  on  the  subject  of  Peace.  I  will  not  there- 
fore increase  my  postage  by  including  a  copy  of  it.  The  inter- 
ruption of  the  mails  from  Hamburgh  for  the  last  six  weeks 
prevents  our  knowing  whether  the  like  overtures  have  been  made 
to  Austria  and  Russia. 

Engd.  &  Russia,  Russia  &  the  Porte,  and  probably  Engd.  & 
the  Porte  are  pledged  to  each  other  not  to  agree  to  any  negotia- 
tion for  a  separate  Peace,  and  some  of  the  friends  of  the  admin- 
istration say  this  shd.  have  been  the  short  answer  to  the  overture 
of  France.  Parliament  met  yesterday,  Mr.  Fox  &  the  other 
members  of  the  opposition  who  seceded,  will  resume  their  seats. 


1 86  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

The  expedition  to  Holland  &  the  refusal  to  treat  with  France  will 
be  the  subjects  of  altercation.  The  Union  of  Ireland  according 
to  present  appearances  will  soon  be  accomplished.  I  have  reed, 
your  letters  to  No.  70  inclusive. 

With  perfect  respect, 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  Jany.  24,  1S00. 

I  have  yours  of  Nov.  6.  England,  as  you  will  see  by  the  pub- 
lication of  the  correspondence  between  Lord  Grenville  &  Mr. 
Talleyrand  rejects  all  overtures  for  a  negotiation.  Some  per- 
sons, who  approve  of  the  Refusal,  say  the  answer  slid,  have  been 
confined  to  the  single  point  of  her  engagements  to  her  allies, 
Russia  and  the  Porte,  not  to  conclude  a  separate  peace.  We 
hear  that  the  opposition  mean  to  attack  the  answer,  and  also  to 
move  an  Enquiry  into  the  Dutch  Expedition. 

Our  Envoys  sailed  from  Lisbon  for  L'Orient  on  the  21  ult.  and 
are  without  doubt  at  or  near  Paris.  It  is  here  thought  almost 
sure  that  they  will  conclude  a  treaty  with  the  first  Consul.  You 
will  naturally  enough  suppose  the  effect  of  the  measure  on  my 
situation,  and  that  it  will  not  strew  my  path  with  roses — don't 
infer  from  this  that  I  disapprove  of  the  Mission.  I  cannot  decide 
in  a  case,  the  circumstances  of  which  are  unknown  to  me,  and 
therefore  say  nothing  of  the  first  nomination  ;  but  that,  having 
been  publickly  made,  I  have  never  been  able  to  perceive  how  it 
could  be  laid  entirely  aside.  I  do  not  understand  the  disagree- 
ment to  which  you  allude,  nor  upon  what  Points  our  political 
Friends  at  Albany  are  in  danger  of  dividing — be  more  explicit  as 
I  should  think  it  a  serious  calamity  to  the  State  slid,  any  such 
event  happen.     .     .     .  Rufus  King. 


Lord  Buchan  to  R.  King. 

Lord  Buchan  presents  his  respectfull  compliments  to  the 
Minister  of  the  United  States  of  America,  sincerely  condoling 
with  him  on  the  heavy  loss  they  have  with  all  good  men  sustained 
in  the  death  of  General  Washington  and  entreating  of  him  to  for- 
ward the  inclosed  letter. 

Dryburgh  Abbey  Jany  28.  1800. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 87 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  Feby.  1,  1800. 
I  have  your  obliging  and  friendly  Letter  of  the  12th  of  Dec, 
and  also  an  afflicting  one  of  a  later  date  by  the  Packet.  It  is  but 
a  few  days  since  we  reed,  this  distressing  news  ;  but  so  far  as  my 
information  extends,  it  has  produced  sentiments  and  expressions 
highly  honorable  to  the  deceased  and  which  reflect  honor  upon 
our  country.  The  authority  of  his  character  was  a  steadying 
power  in  our  System,  of  the  force  and  influence  of  wh.  we  were 
ignorant  during  his  life.  My  hope,  and  I  will  add,  my  belief  is, 
great  as  it  certainly  was,  that  we  shall  still  go  on  pretty  much  as 
formerly  and  without  any  material  derangement.     .     .     . 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  59. 

London,  Feby.  3,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Grantham  Packet  has  arrived  after  a  short  passage  & 
brought  me  your  dispatch  concerning  the  6th  article  of  the 
English  Treaty.  I  have  this  day  sent  a  note  to  Ld.  Grenville  on 
that  subject  that  will  probably  lead  to  the  commencement  of  the 
negotiation.  At  present  therefore  I  cannot  give  you  any  opinion 
respecting  it.  No  exertion  on  my  part  will  be  wanting  to  bring 
it  to  a  satisfactory  conclusion  &  I  can  be  answerable  for  nothing 
further.  We  are  still  without  news  of  the  envoys,  tho'  I  enter- 
tain no  concern  respecting  them.  They  went  to  L'Orient,  and 
all  that  quarter  is  in  revolt,  so  that  no  communication  exists  be- 
tween L'Orient  &  Paris.  Our  people  have  a  large  property  in- 
sured in  this  country  &  condemned  in  the  French  prize  Tribunals. 
The  sentences  of  these  Prize  courts  are  unfairly  and  dishonestly 
made  use  of  by  the  English  underwriters  to  defeat  us  in  their 
courts.  I  know  not  whether  the  subject  occurred  to  you  in  draw- 
ing up  the  Instructions  to  the  Envoys  ;  but  I  am  considering  it, 
and  tho'  I  have  judged  it  prudent  to  avoid  all  correspondence 
with  the  Envoys,  I  am  preparing  a  letter  which  I  think  of  sending 
to  them,  representing  the  importance  of  the  subject  &  suggesting 


1 88  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

the  advantages  that  we  should  receive  by  the  reversal  in  the 
French  Tribunals  of  the  last  resort  of  these  sentences.  Tho'  I 
have  not  yet  given  the  subject  all  the  consideration  that  it  is  my  in- 
tention to  do,  I  do  not  perceive  any  Reason  likely  to  influence 
the  French  Govt,  to  refuse  what  would  be  our  interest  in  this 
respect  ;  while  I  think  I  see  more  than  one  motive  to  induce 
them  to  agree  to  it. 

It  is  believed  that  arrangements  have  been  fallen  upon  to  pro- 
duce a  reconciliation  between  the  two  Imperial  Courts  &  that  the 
campaign  will  soon  be  opened  ;  but  we  are  without  late  mails, 
and,  therefore,  without  late  &  positive  information  on  this  head. 

With  perfect  Respect,  &c. 

R.  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

London,  Feby.  6,  1800. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  lately  received  a  letter  from  the  Gov.  of  Georgia,  repre- 
senting the  very  great  embarrassment  to  which  many  of  the  In- 
habitants of  that  State  are  exposed  in  consequence  of  the  loss 
which  happened  during  the  war  of  a  variety  of  records  &  other 
public  papers  belonging  to  the  office  of  the  Secretary  and  Sur- 
veyor Genl.  of  that  State. 

It  has  been  apprehended  that  these  papers  were  destroyed  or 
totally  lost  ;  but  on  enquiry  in  some  of  the  public  offices  of  this 
country,  I  have  reason  to  believe  that  several  trunks  containing 
these  papers  together  with  others  belonging  to  the  State  of  So. 
Carolina  were  brought  from  the  U.  S.  &  deposited  at  the  Treas- 
ury, from  whence  it  is  believed  they  were  removed  together  with 
the  Papers  which  related  to  the  claims  of  the  Amn.  Loyalists  to  a 
vault  under  Somerset  House.  It  is  not  I  am  confident  requisite 
to  observe  to  your  Lordship  that  it  was  agreed  by  the  Treaty  of 
Peace  that  all  papers  of  this  description  should  be  restored.  The 
fact  has  doubtless  been  that  both  Govts,  have  hitherto  been 
ignorant  of  their  existence  &  situation.  When  I  remark  to  yr. 
Ldp.  that  the  titles  to  the  lands  of  many  of  the  Inhabitants  of 
Georgia,  as  well  as  the  security  of  their  Estates  under  the  Laws 
of  the  Colony  materially  depend  upon  the  repossession  of  these 


i8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 89 


missing  records  &  papers,  I  am  confident  that  I  state  a  circum- 
stance that  will  engage  yr.  Ldp.  to  present  this  application  to  his 
Majesty,  with  the  view  that  orders  may  be  given  for  a  search  for 
these  papers  &  for  their  delivery  to  me  for  the  use  of  the  States 
of  Georgia  &  So.  Carolina  respectively. 

With  the  greatest  consideration  &c 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  6  Feby.,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  am  sorry  that  I  cannot  write  to  you  more  satisfactorily 
than  is  in  my  power  on  the  result  of  the  present  session.  It  was 
always  my  opinion  that  the  public  were  greatly  interested  in  ren- 
dering meetings  of  congress  as  short  as  possible,  consistently  with 
doing  the  necessary  business  of  the  nation.  That  idea,  however, 
never  appeared  to  make  less  impression  than  at  the  present  session  ; 
none  of  the  great  measures  which  are  indispensable  are  yet  ma- 
tured, by  the  reports  of  Committees,  for  the  consideration  of  the 
legislature. 

The  Bankrupt  Bill  has  not  yet  passed  thro'  the  House  of  Rep- 
resentatives &  to  my  mind  it  is  doubtful  whether  it  will  pass.  This 
measure  I  believe  to  be  important  as  well  in  a  commercial  as  in  a 
political  view.  Respecting  the  latter  it  will  lessen  opposition  to 
the  Government  by  the  most  active  &  clamorous  description  of 
persons,  debtors  finding  an  interest  in  its  support ;  while  the  whole 
of  our  commercial  men  will  have  additional  reasons  for  their 
activity  in  their  favorable  regard  to  it.  It  will,  too,  more  than  any 
measure  the  Government  can  adopt,  render  an  extension  of  the 
judiciary  necessary.  These  and  other  tho'  less  important  benefits 
to  the  Government  are  clearly  discerned  by  the  opposition,  and 
consequently  every  member  of  it,  except  Livingston,  who  has  con- 
flicting motives,  will  vote  against  the  Bill.  On  the  other  hand 
there  are  causes  which  detach  several  federalists  from  its  support. 
In  New  England  it  will  break  in  upon  our  system  of  attachment 
laws,  which  from  habit  &  education  have  more  favor  than  their 
merit  entitles  them  to  ;  and  in  Virginia,  in  one  instance,  will  ren- 
der lands  liable  to  the  payment  of  debts  and  may  form  a  precedent 


190  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

for  the  extension  of  that  principle.  During  the  progress  of  the 
Bill,  Gen.  Marshall  has  made  provision  to  decide  on  two  subjects 
by  jury,  if  required  by  the  party,  1.  the  question  of  bankrupt  or  no 
bankrupt  &  2.  the  amount  of  the  debt.  The  second  may  not  in 
practice  be  found  very  perplexing,  the  first  I  presume  will  be  infi- 
nitely so.  To  this  the  friends  of  the  bill  were  obliged  to  submit 
or  render  its  rejection  certain.  This  gentleman  is,  as  you  know, 
a  man  of  fine  talents,  and  I  have  no  doubt,  of  perfect  honor  and 
integrity,  but  like  all  the  men  I  have  seen  from  that  State,  who 
have  talents,  too  much  guided  by  the  refinements  of  Theory.    .    . 

Yours  very  sincerely, 

T.  S. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Department  of  State,  Feby.  7,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

My  letter  of  the  31st  December  expressed  to  you  the  ideas  and 
conclusions  of  the  President  on  the  several  subjects  of  negociation 
relative  to  the  question  of  the  sixth  article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity, 
Commerce  and  Navigation  between  the  United  States  and  Great 
Britain.  It  was  then  expected  that  a  further  consideration  of  the 
matter  would  have  suggested  and  required  additional  instructions  ; 
but  the  President  is  satisfied  to  leave  it  on  the  basis  at  that  time 
proposed.  The  additional  documents  which  Mr.  Sitgreaves  takes 
with  him  will  give  you  a  more  perfect  knowledge  of  the  extent  and 
nature  of  the  claims,  the  equitable  adjustment  of  which  is  the  ob- 
ject of  the  proposed  negociation  ;  and  with  views  mutually  upright, 
the  President  trusts  it  may  soon  be  brought  to  an  honorable 
conclusion. 

But  this  letter  cannot  be  closed,  without  expressing  to  you  the 
President's  sense  of  the  injury  done  to  the  American  Commission- 
ers and  Government  by  the  suspicion  which  appears  to  have  been 
suggested,  if  not  entertained,  by  the  British  Administration,  that 
the  final  secession  of  the  American  Commissioners  from  the  Board 
was  caused  or  influenced  by  any  considerations  of  interest  either 
to  individuals  or  the  States,  to  arise  by  delaying  awards  and  pay- 
ments. Such  a  suspicion  should  be  repelled  with  earnestness  and 
even  with  disdain. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

Sedgwick  to  King — His  Task  to  accommodate  the  Differences  with  G.  Britain — 
France's  Conduct  viewed  with  Disgust,  even  Horror — King  to  Secretary  of 
State — Russian  and  Austrian  Disagreements,  also  Austrian  and  English 
financial  ones  settled — Envoys  at  Corunna — King  to  Lord  Grenville — Rela- 
tive to  the  Disagreement  of  the  Commission  at  Philadelphia — To  Secretary 
of  State — Speaks  of  Conference  above  referred  to — Scarcity  of  Bread  in 
Great  Britain — Expedition  preparing  possibly  to  assist  the  Revolt  of  the 
Spanish  Colonies — To  Pickering — Will  be  glad  to  see  Mr.  Sitgreaves — En- 
voys to  France — Insurance  in  England  affected  by  Decisions  of  French 
Courts — To  Secretary  of  State — On  the  News  of  the  Death  of  Washington, 
he  put  his  Family  in  Mourning — Attending  next  Levee  of  the  King  and  of 
the  Queen — Neither  made  Allusion  to  the  Event — Concerted  Neglect — 
Dinner  at  Carleton  House  a  Year  before  ;  Washington  toasted — The  Prince 
of  Wales  broke  up  the  Party — General  News. 

Theodore  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  ii  Feby.,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Again  I  write  to  you  by  our  friend  Mr.  Sitgreaves.  The  busi- 
ness which  sends  him  to  you  I  have  long  apprehended  might 
assume  a  serious  aspect,  and  I  am  much  mistaken,  if  you  will  not 
be  gratified,  that  the  government  has  afforded  you  the  aid  of  his 
information  and  talents  in  the  adjustment  of  it.  His  manly  and 
intelligent  conduct,  in  the  management  of  a  business  so  important 
and  intricate  and  delicate,  has,  in  the  opinion  of  all  our  friends, 
added  to  the  respectability  of  his  character. 

It  will  be  an  arduous  task  to  accommodate  our  differences  with 
G.  Britain,  and  splendid  will  be  the  reputation  of  that  man  who 
can  effect  it.  That  task  is  yours.  There  never  existed  two  nations 
which  had  a  stronger  interest  in  mutual  confidence  &  amity  than 
that  country  and  this.     It  is  in  her  option  whether  they  exist,  or 

191 


I92  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

the  reverse  take  place.  If  her  councils  respecting  us  are  wise  and 
temperate  and  just,  the  powers  of  our  government  will  continue  in 
the  hands  of  men  who  discern  and  will  pursue  the  public  interests. 
But,  on  the  contrary,  if  her  conduct  towards  us  is  intemperate  & 
irritating,  the  alternative  is  inevitable  ;  we  must  retaliate  or  lose 
the  public  confidence  &  with  it  the  power  of  government,  which 
will  pass  into  hands,  whose  enmity  to  G.  B.  is  deadly  and 
irreconcilable. 

That  a  late  measure  may  be  deemed  by  some  an  evidence  that 
our  government  sympathized  with  France,  I  am  sensible  ;  and 
yet  I  know  that  such  a  conclusion  would  be  untrue.  I  do  not 
believe,  I  never  did  believe  that  measure  to  be  wise.  I  know  the 
motives  from  which  it  originated  ;  I  have  heretofore  detailed 
them  to  you,  in  confidence.  It  is  a  misfortune  that  they 
cannot,  creditably,  be  exposed.  I  do  know  that  the  conduct  of 
France,  her  policy  &  designs,  at  the  moment  that  measure  was 
taken,  were  viewed  not  only  with  disgust,  but  with  a  degree  of 
horror. 

The  late  explosion  in  France  affords  here  abundant  materials 
for  conjecture.  Many,  I  believe  most,  of  our  friends  hope,  and 
therefore  believe,  it  indicates  a  reestablishment  of  royalty.  I 
hope  too,  but  I  do  not  believe.  There  is  nothing  in  the  character 
of  the  principal  agents,  nor  do  their  circumstances  render  that 
event  probable,  if  indeed  it  be  possible.  Is  the  coalition  in 
Europe  dissolved  ?  Can  the  Emperor  resist  the  efforts  of 
France  ?  Are  not  the  resources  of  England  nearly  exhausted  ? 
Does  not  the  revolutionary  state  of  France,  in  the  conflict  she  is 
maintaining,  give  her  infinite  advantages  over  the  opposing  states 
under  regularly  organized  governments  ?  Are  not  the  affairs  of 
France  in  hands  as  firm,  and  guided  by  as  much  wisdom  &  genius 
as  at  any  period  of  the  revolution  ?  Have  not  all  the  materials 
composing  the  present  power  of  France  qualities  irreconcilable 
with  royalty  ?  and  must  not  all  its  ministers  and  agents  first  be 
removed  before  the  former  order  of  things  can  be  restored  ? 

Here  we  are  moving  on  slowly.  If  we  have  not  the  power  to  do 
much  good,  we  shall  I  hope  prevent  any  positive  evil.  The  house 
has  passed  a  resolution  to  rise  on  the  first  Monday  in  April.  I 
fear  we  shall  not  be  able  to  effect  it.  The  subject  of  finance  is 
not  yet  brought  forward.     We  contemplate  a  reform  of  our  judi- 


:8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  193 


cial  by  creating  a  number  of  new  districts,  by  associating  the  dis- 
trict judges  to  form  circuit  courts,  and  by  instituting  the  office  of 
Justice  of  the  peace  with  merely  ministerial  powers.  The  bank- 
rupt bill,  I  fear,  will  be  lost,  tho'  it  has  passed  to  a  third  reading 
this  day.  I  have  a  project  for  extending  turnpike  roads  under 
the  authority  of  this  government,  but,  as  yet,  I  know  not  how  far 
it  may  be  rendered  palatable.     .     .     . 

Ever  yours  affectly. 
T.  S. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  60. 

London,  Feby.  14,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  not  yet  had  a  conference  with  Lord  Grenville,  whose 
time,  as  I  have  been  informed,  is  at  present  wholly  taken  up  by  the 
active  and  urgent  negotiations  in  which  this  country  is  engaged 
relative  to  the  approaching  campaign.  /  have  not  pressed  his 
Lordship  by  a  second*  application,  because  were  he  ready  I  should  be 
obliged  to  defer  a  final  agreement  on  every  point  until  the  arrival  of 
Mr.  Sitgreaves.  As  I  have  before  informed  you,  the  disagree- 
ment between  the  two  Imperial  Courts  in  consequence  of  the 
complaints  of  Suwarrow,  was  settled,  and  not  only  the  order  that 
had  been  given  to  him  to  return  home  with  his  army  was  revoked, 
but  new  corps  were  put  in  motion  to  reinforce  the  Russians,  who 
were  to  act  upon  the  Rhine.  Of  a  sudden  this  order  is  recalled, 
in  consequence  of  some  fresh  misunderstanding  that  has  taken 
place  between  Petersburgh  &  Vienna.  We  are  told  altho'  the 
Russians  will  not  cooperate  with  the  Austrians,  that  they  will  accept 
the  subsidies  of,  &  concur  with  England  and  against  the  common 
enemy  ;  but  where  &  how  they  are  to  be  employed  is  not  ex- 
plained. The  pecuniary  disagreement  between  Austria  &  Eng- 
land is  settled,  and  the  latter  will  grant  German  subsidies  & 
probably  guaranty  another  loan  to  Austria.  Our  Envoys  landed 
at  Corunna,  &  have  demanded  &  received  Passports  to  proceed 
to  Paris  where  Mr.  Murray,  who  will  leave  the  Hague  on  the  18th 
instant,  expects  to  meet  them. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 

VOL.  III.— 13 


194  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Mr.  King,  having  received  such  information  by  official 
instructions  as  warranted  him  in  making  to  Lord  Grenville 
a  formal  communication  of  the  views  of  the  American  Gov- 
ernment relative  to  the  disagreement  of  the  Commission 
under  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  Commerce, 
and  Navigation  between  the  United  States  and  Great 
Britain,  delivered  at  a  conference  with  Lord  Grenville  on 
February  18,  1800,  the  following  paper. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 


a 


Without  discussing  the  disagreement  that  ended  in  the  suspen- 
sion of  the  Board  of  Commissioners,  acting  under  the  6th  Article 
of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  Commerce  &  Navigation  between  the 
United  States  &  Great  Britain,  it  not  being  perceived  that  any 
advantage,  in  reference  to  the  future  and  satisfactory  execution 
of  that  article  would  be  likely  to  arise  from  such  discussion  ;  it 
is  proposed  on  the  part  of  the  United  States,  that  the  Plenipoten- 
tiaries of  the  two  countries  should  endeavour  to  agree  in  such 
explanation,  respecting  the  said  article,  as  shall  secure  to  the 
creditors  on  the  side  of  Great  Britain  the  full  benefit  of  all  the 
rights  to  which  they  are  entitled,  whether  in  virtue  of  their  respec- 
tive contracts,  or  from  the  provisions  of  the  Treaties  between  the 
two  countries;  and  at  the  same  time  mark  more  clearly  the  limits 
of  the  Engagements  of  the  United  States. 

"  From  the  extensive  Commercial  Dealings  between  Great  Britain 
and  America,  Debts  to  a  considerable  amount  were  due  to  British 
Creditors  at  the  Commencement  of  the  American  War  ;  these 
Debts,  exclusive  of  the  irrevocable  losses  occasioned  by  the  insol- 
vency of  Debtors  in  the  course  of  that  War,  were  affected  by 
various  Laws  passed  in  several  of  the  States,  as  well  as  by  the 
apprehension  lest  the  creditors  might  after  the  Peace  be  obliged 
to  receive  payment  in  a  depreciated  Paper  money  ;  to  guard 
against  this  apprehension,  as  well  as  to  remove  every  obstruction 
proceeding  from  the  Laws  of  any  of  the  States,  the  fourth  Article 
of  the  Treaty  of  Peace  provided  '  that  Creditors  on  either  side 
shall  meet  with  no  lawful  impediments  in  the  recovery  of  the  full 
value  in  sterling  money  of  all  bona-fide  Debts  heretofore  con- 
tracted.'    Complaints   were   afterwards    made  by  divers    British 


l8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  I95 


Creditors  that  lawful  impediments  had  been  suffered  to  exist 
within  the  United  States  contrary  to  the  aforesaid  Provision  of 
the  Treaty  of  Peace,  and  that  by  the  operation  thereof  they  had 
sustained  Losses  &  Damages  which  could  not  be  repaired  in  the 
ordinary  courts  of  Justice  ;  in  consequence  of  which  complaints 
it  was  agreed  by  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  that  in 
all  such  cases,  where  full  compensation  for  such  Losses  &  Dam- 
ages could  not  be  obtained  in  the  ordinary  Courts  of  Justice,  the 
same  should  be  made  by  the  United  States,  it  being  at  the  same 
time  understood  &  further  agreed  that  this  Provision  should  in- 
clude such  Losses  only  as  were  occasioned  by  such  insolvency  of 
the  Debtors,  or  other  causes,  as  would  equally  have  operated  to 
have  produced  the  same,  if  the  said  impediments  had  not  existed, 
nor  the  Losses  &  Damages  been  occasioned  by  the  delay,  neg- 
ligence or  wilful  omission  of  the  claimant. 

"  From  hence  it  appears  that  the  aim  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace  was 
in  this  respect  to  do  away  every  impediment  in  Law  to  the  recov- 
ery of  all  bona-fide  Debts  therein  described,  and  to  leave  to  the 
Creditors  the  free  legal  remedy  to  which  they  were  respectively 
entitled  at  the  time  when  the  Debts  were  created  ;  and  that  the 
object  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  so  far  as  it  respects  this  subject, 
was  not  the  removal  of  lawful  impediments,  for  none  existed  at 
its  Conclusion,  nor  to  pledge  the  United  States  to  pay  the  Debts 
due  to  British  Creditors  ;  but  to  secure  to  the  Creditors,  under 
certain  limitations,  compensation  from  the  United  States  for  all 
losses  as  had  been  occasioned  by  the  operation  of  lawful  impedi- 
ments since  the  Treaty  of  Peace,  and  which  could  not,  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity  &c.  be  recovered  from  the 
Debtors  in  the  ordinary  Courts  of  Justice. 

"  To  establish  a  claim  then  against  the  United  States,  in  virtue 
of  the  Treaty  of  Amity,  it  is  conceived  that  the  Creditors  should 
give  satisfactory  proof  to  the  Commissioners, 

"  1.  That  the  debt  was  bona-fide  contracted  before  &  remained 
unpaid  at  the  Peace. 

"  2.  That  the  Debtor  was  solvent  at  the  Peace  &  that  the 
Creditor  used  reasonable  diligence  to  obtain  Payment. 

"  3.  That  lawful  impediments  prevented  his  recovery  of  pay- 
ment, and  that  during  their  operation,  the  Debtor  became  insol- 
vent &  continued  to  be  so  at  the  conclusion  of  the  Treaty  of 
Amity  &c. 


I96  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

"  To  avoid  misapprehension,  it  is  thought  adviseable  informally 
to  present  in  the  shape  of  separate  articles  such  principles  as, 
according  to  the  spirit  and  object  of  the  6th  Article  of  the 
Treaty  of  Peace,  are  deemed  on  the  part  of  the  United  States 
proper  to  constitute  the  Basis  of  the  desired  Explanations. 
These  are  also  accompanied  by  a  few  observations  suggesting 
some  of  the  reasons  on  which  they  severally  depend  for  support." 

This  examination  of  the  articles,  and  the  explanations  of 
the  principles  upon  which  the  United  States  considered  the 
disputed  points  should  be  settled,  are  of  such  length  and  in 
such  detail,  covering  ten  pages  of  closely  written  foolscap 
paper,  as  to  forbid  their  introduction  here.  The  general 
result  is  that  there  has  been  a  failure  on  the  part  of  the 
present  Commissioners  under  the  6th  Article  of  the  treaty 
to  agree  in  construing  its  meaning  as  it  was  understood  by 
the  Commissioners  of  the  United  States,  which  resulted  in 
the  withdrawal  of  the  American  members  from  the  confer- 
ences, and  that  it  is  evident 

"  after  what  has  passed  no  reasonable  expectation  can  be  enter- 
tained of  a  satisfactory  execution  of  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty 
of  Amity  by  the  present  Commissioners.  Whoever  reads  their 
correspondence  or  the  minutes  of  their  Proceedings,  whatever 
may  be  his  opinion  of  their  respective  merits,  must  agree  in  this 
conclusion.  The  appointment  of  other  Commissioners  appears 
therefore  to  be  indispensable  ;  and  that  they  may  not  succeed  to 
the  controversy,  in  succeeding  to  the  duties  of  their  predecessors, 
the  proposed  provision  with  respect  to  the  decision  of  the  present 
Board  of  Commissioners  seems  equally  necessary.*  ...  It 
is  proper  that  there  should  be  a  limitation  of  time  within  which 
each  side  should  produce  their  proofs." 

*  "  All  claims  preferred  to  the  Board  heretofore  appointed,  and  not  dis- 
missed by  the  said  Board,  shall  be  considered  as  depending  before  the  Commis- 
sioners to  be  appointed  in  virtue  hereof  ;  but  the  Commissioners  appointed  in 
virtue  of  this  Article  shall  not  be  bound  by  any  acts  or  resolutions  passed  or 
proposed  to  be  passed  by  the  former  Board  in  any  cases  not  dismissed  by  the 
said  former  Board." 


l8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  1 97 


To  this  communication  no  answer  was  given  until  June 
9th,  when  Lord  Grenville,  in  a  private  note  to  Mr.  King, 
stated,  as  will  be  seen,  that 

"  any  discussion  of  them  [the  Proposals]  would  have  been  on  our 
part  an  admission  of  the  propriety  of  treating  afresh  upon  a  sub- 
ject long  since  settled  by  a  Treaty,  the  British  part  of  which  has 
been  faithfully  and  unreservedly  executed,  and  under  circum- 
stances of  objection  not  materially  differing  from  those  now  urged 
by  the  Government  of  the  United  States  as  a  plea  for  opening  a 
fresh  negotiation." 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  61. 

London,  Feby.  25,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  a  conference  with  Lord  Grenville  on  the  16th  inst,  I  deliv- 
ered to  him  a  verbal  note  containing  such  explanations  as  on  our 
part  are  deemed  requisite  to  the  satisfactory  execution  of  the  6th 
article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity  ;  these  additional  articles  were 
accompanied  by  such  short  observations  as  appeared  to  me  calcu- 
lated to  explain  and  recommend  them.  As  it  was  the  first  inter- 
view upon  that  subject,  I  was  not  disappointed  in  his  Reserve, 
who  only  remarked  that  it  would  be  best  to  waive  any  observa- 
tion on  the  Subject,  until  he  should  have  had  an  opportunity  of 
giving  it  a  full  consideration.     I  have  not  since  heard  from  him. 

I  annex  the  copy  of  a  note  from  his  Lordship  respecting  the 
Blockade  of  the  Port  of  Genoa. 

It  is  rumoured,  tho'  no  authentic  information  has  been  re- 
ceived, that  the  last  order  to  the  Russian  Army  to  return  home 
has  been  recalled,  and  that  after  being  reinforced  Suwarrow  will 
march  to  the  Rhine.  The  orders  and  counter-orders  that  have 
been  issued  to  this  army  give  a  degree  of  credit  to  the  report ;  but 
no  one  can  be  sure  that  the  revoking  order  may  not  again  be  re- 
called, and  Suwarrow  for  the  third  time  required  to  withdraw. 

The  Insurrection  of  the  Chouans,  which  a  few  weeks  ago 
appeared  so  formidable,  seems  to  be  nearly  suppressed,  and  if  the 
insurgents  have  been  obliged  to  give  up  the  arms  received  from 


198  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

this  country,  these    Departments  must  at   least  for  some  time 
remain  quiet. 

The  scarcity  of  Bread  in  all  parts  of  Great  Britain  &  Ireland 
exceeds  the  expectations  of  those  who  began  to  be  alarmed  on 
this  subject  as  early  as  October  ;  and  were  not  the  numerous 
poor  not  only  throughout  the  Metropolis,  but  in  all  parts  of  the 
country  fed  from  the  Soup-Houses  established  &  maintained  by 
voluntary  contributions,  the  vigour  of  Government  would  be 
scarcely  able  to  prevent  extensive  and  serious  popular  commo- 
tions. The  Embarrassments  which  affected  the  merchants  con- 
cerned in  the  West  India  Trade  are  supposed  to  be  diminished, 
and  the  commercial  profits  of  the  last  year,  judging  of  them  by 
the  Returns  of  the  Custom  House,  have  exceeded  those  of  any 
former  year.  The  terms  upon  which  the  Minister  has  borrowed 
Twenty  Millions  (an  interest  under  five  per  cent)  are  generally 
ascribed  to  the  Prosperity  of  the  Manufacturers  &  Trade  of  the 
Country  ;  tho'  some  persons  who  admit  the  favorable  terms  of  the 
loan  account  for  it  by  the  facility  with  which  money  is  made  & 
issued  by  the  Bank.  The  salutary  restraint,  arising  from  the 
obligation  to  give  cash  for  its  Notes,  being  suspended,  the  temp- 
tation to  pass  the  limits  of  prudence  is  almost  irresistible  ;  and  if 
the  Directors  have  wisdom  &  firmness  sufficient  to  perceive  & 
perform  their  Duty,  they  will  do  more  &  better  than  has  ever 
been  done  by  other  men  in  the  like  circumstances. 

An  Expedition  is  preparing  *  in  this  country  ;  and  according  to 
my  information  is  nearly  ready  to  sail,  the  destination  of  which  is  mat- 
ter of  earnest  speculation  among  those  who  are  apprized  of  it,  for 
the  preparations  are  made  with  great  secrecy.  Tho'  I  do  not  positive- 
ly know  that  it  will  even  proceed,  I  have  some  reason  to  believe  that 
it  may  be,  and  probably  is,  destined  to  assist  the  revolt  of  the  Spanish 
Colonies,  near  the  Isthmus  of  Panama.  The  Inhabitants  of  Caraccas 
6°  Santa  Fee  are  deeply  and  generally  disaffected,  and  if  aided  by 
a  Foreign  force  &  supplied  with  arms,  it  is  said  would  openly 
throw  off  the  Spanish  Dominion.  If  I  am  founded  in  my  con 
jecture  the  12,000  Troops  that  will  go  from  this  country  will  be  dis- 
tributed thro'  the  West  India  Islands  to  relieve  the  seasoned  Troops 
now  there,  who  will  be  e?nployed  in  the  Expedition.     This  circum- 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE. 


I99 


stance  which  cannot  pass  unobserved,  will  enable  you  to  judge  how 
far  this  speculation,  for  it  is  really  nothing  more,  is  well 
founded. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &x.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  T.  Pickering. 
{Private?) 

London,  Feby.  25,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  obliged  to  you  for  your  private  Letter  of  the  3d  ultimo. 
It  is  of  value  to  me  on  account  of  the  sentiments  of  friendship 
that  it  contains,  &  I  assure  you  without  the  least  reserve  that  so 
far  from  Mr.  Sitgreaves's  coming  here  being  the  occasion  of  the 
smallest  uneasiness  or  dissatisfaction  on  my  part,  I  shall  be  glad 
to  see  him  as  well  on  account  of  the  esteem  I  entertain  for  him, 
as  that  I  may  have  an  opportunity,  should  it  be  requisite,  of 
receiving  from  him  such  particular  details  &  information  as  may 
not  be  found  in  the  voluminous  documents  that  I  have  reed,  from 
you.  At  the  same  time  I  will  remark  to  you  that  it  seems  to  me 
improbable  that  we  shall  have  occasion  for  minute  knowledge  in 
respect  to  particular  cases  &c,  as,  if  I  am  not  mistaken,  whatever 
is  done  must  be  effected  by  a  general  view  of  the  subject,  & 
which  those  with  whom  I  am  to  treat  may  have  leisure  &  inclina- 
tion to  consider. 

Mr.  Gore,  who  avails  himself  of  the  suspension  of  his  official 
duty  to  visit  his  friends,  will  tell  you  what  I  might  otherwise  com- 
municate respecting  the  situation  of  our  affairs  in  this  country. 
If  you  have  not  sent  me  a  new  cipher  &  the  counterpart  of  Mr. 
Jay's  cipher,  which  I  have  found  among  the  papers  of  the  Lega- 
tion, has  been  preserved,  I  will  make  use  of  it.  I  take  the  liberty 
to  recommend  that  your  Dispatches,  if  very  large,  be  sent  by 
private  ships  addressed  to  the  care  of  the  Consul  of  the  Port 
where  they  arrive.  Your  Dispatches  by  the  Last  Packet  were 
charged  upwards  of  Forty  guineas  postage. 

With  sincere  respect  &  esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


200  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 


R.  King  to  Messrs.  Ellsworth,  Davie,  and  Murray. 

Gentlemen  :  LoNDON'  Feb^  2^  l8oa 

Property  warranted  American  to  a  large  amount  has  been  in- 
sured in  this  Country,  &  condemned  in  the  French  Tribunals,  in 
some  instances  generally  as  good  Prize,  or  as  Enemy's  Property ; 
in  others  for  the  want  of  Sea-Letters,  Roles  d'Equipage  &  other 
Documents  said  to  be  required  by  Treaty,  or  by  the  French  Or- 
dinances ;  in  others,  because  papers  were  alledged  to  have  been 
destroyed  ;  the  Master  or  a  certain  portion  of  the  Crew  to  have 
been  of  the  enemy's  country,  or  the  Bills  of  Lading  to  have  been 
unsigned  ;  and  in  others,  on  account  of  the  Property's  being  the 
Growth  or  manufacture  of  the  British  Territories. 

The  Conduct  of  the  Underwriters  has  in  many  of  these  cases 
been  unfair  and  against  good  faith  ;  that  of  the  Courts,  on  most 
occasions,  unfavorable  to  our  demands  against  the  Underwriters 
— the  common  refuge  of  the  Underwriters  has  been  the  French 
sentence,  produced  to  disprove  the  warranty  contained  in  the 
Policy.  It  is  here  held  that  the  sentence  of  a  foreign  Court  of 
Admiralty  is  binding  upon  all  parties  as  to  what  appears  on  the 
face  of  it,  and  if  the  sentence  proceeds  upon  the  ground  of  the 
property  not  being  Neutral,  it  is  received  as  conclusive  evidence 
against  the  Insured  that  he  has  not  complied  with  his  warranty. 

In  the  King's  Bench  it  has  been  decided  in  the  case  of  a  ship, 
warranted  American  and  condemned  as  enemy's  property,  for  not 
having  on  board  a  Role  d'Equipage,  which  the  Court  of  Admi- 
ralty adjudged  to  be  requisite  within  the  meaning  of  the  Treaty 
between  France  and  America,  that  the  sentence  was  conclusive 
against  the  warranty.  This  doctrine,  respecting  Documents  re- 
quired by  Treaty,  has  been  carried  still  further,  and  in  the  case 
of  a  ship  warranted  American,  which  sailed  without  such  a  pass- 
port as  is  required  in  the  Treaty  between  France  &  America,  and 
was  lost,  the  Underwriters  were  discharged  on  the  ground  that 
the  warranty  was  not  complied  with  ;  tho'  it  was  admitted  that 
the  ship  suffered  no  inconvenience  from  the  want  of  the  Pass- 
port ;  the  Warranty  being  construed  to  mean,  not  only  that  the 
property  was  American,  but  that  the  ship  was  entitled  to  all  the 
privileges  of  the  American  Flag,  &  consequently  regularly 
documented. 


l8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  201 


If  however  the  ground  of  the  sentence  be  not  the  want  of 
neutrality  but  a  foreign  ordinance,  unjust  &  contrary  to  the  Law 
of  Nations,  it  has  been  decided  that  the  sentence  does  not  dis- 
charge the  insurer  ;  and  likewise  if  the  property  is  condemned  as 
good  Prize,  if  the  ground  of  the  sentence  contradicts  the  conclu- 
sion, the  sentence  will  not  discharge  the  Underwriters. 

I  can  express  no  opinio?i  of  the  probability  or  manner  of  our  ob- 
taining compensation  from  France  in  these  cases  ;  and  in  the  present 
shape  of  the  sentences,  I  see  little  prospect  of  our  receiving  it  from  the 
Underwriters.  But  if  the  sentences  could  be  revised  6°  corrected,  we 
should  find  few  i?npediments  in  recovering  from  the  Insurers  :  we 
are  entitled  to  this  revision,  and  it  has  occurred  to  me,  that  you  will 
in  many  instances  be  able  to  effect  it.  The  arguments  likely  to  be 
listened  to  by  France  will  naturally  suggest  themselves  to  you,  and 
are,  as  it  seems  to  me,  of  a  persuasive  character.  You  will  re7?iem- 
ber  that  one  of  the  first  acts  of  this  Government  in  the  course  of  Mr. 
Jay's  negotiation,  was  to  prepare  the  way  for  a  revision  of  sentences 
in  cases  in  which  the  property  was  distributed,  and  the  Right  of  Ap- 
peal gone  j  and  under  this  arrangement,  since  confirmed  by  An  act  of 
Parliament,  almost  all  these  sentences  have  been  &  will  be  reversed. 

The  Confederacy,  Jenke  Master,  a  rich  American  Indiaman*  cap- 
tured on  her  return  voyage  was  condemned  in  France,  tho'  ad- 
mitted on  the  face  of  the  sentence  to  be  American  Property,  for 
the  want  of  a  Role  d'Equipage.  The  owners  Pierpoi7it  and  others 
were  deeply  insured  in  this  country.  The  suits  against  the  insurers 
are  depending  ;  many  other  cases  wait  their  decision,  which  will,  I 
fear,  be  against  the  assured  unless  the  se?itence  be  reversed. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  62. 

London,  Feby.  28,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  was  my  intention  to  have  mentioned  to  you  in  my  last  letter, 
that  immediately  on  receiving  information  of  the  Death  of  General 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


202  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Washington,  and  that  a  public  mourning  had  been  ordered,  I  put 
myself  &  family  in  mourning,  as  was  universally  done  by  the 
American  citizens  in  this  country.  The  Newspapers,  excepting 
the  Gazette,  all  announced  the  General's  death  &  in  a  manner 
honorable  to  his  memory  ;  they  also  took  notice  of  the  public 
mourning  that  had  been  recommended,  so  that  no  one  could  be 
ignorant  of  it.  Mr.  Liston's  Dispatch,  without  doubt,  also  men- 
tioned the  Death  of  the  General  as  well  as  the  respect  shown  to 
his  memory  ;  but  no  Extract  from  it  was  inserted  in  the  Gazette, 
tho'  an  extract  from  a  Letter  from  Mr.  Wickham,  the  English 
Minister  to  Swabia,  to  Ld  Grenville,  received  about  the  same 
time,  &  which  gives  an  account  of  the  death  of  Stiegner,  one  of 
the  late  advoyers  of  Berne,  was  published  in  this  official  Paper.  I 
attended  the  next  Levee  in  full  mourning  ;  my  colleagues  made 
me  the  customary  compliments  of  condolence,  but  the  King,  tho* 
he  spoke  to  me  as  usual  on  other  topics,  took  no  notice  of  the 
occasion  of  my  being  in  mourning,  &  was  silent  respecting 
America.  The  next  day,  being  the  Queen's  drawing-room,  I  was 
at  court  &  in  mourning  as  on  the  preceding  days  ;  both  the 
King  &  Queen  observed  the  same  reserve,  as  the  King  had  before 
done.  I  went  again  to  the  Levee,  still  in  mourning,  &  the  King 
still  maintained  his  former  silence,  The  Ministers  are  not  regular 
in  their  attendance  &  commonly  come  late  ;  some  of  them  were 
however  present  on  each  day,  but  none  of  them  said  a  word  to  me 
concerning  the  Death  of  this  great  man  ;  so  I  conclude,  and  the 
President,  who  well  knows  the  character  of  this  court,  will  think  I 
had  sufficient  reason  to  do  so,  that  this  disrespectful  omission  &, 
as  I  consider  it,  want  of  magnanimity  was  a  concerted  neglect. 

The  following  Anecdote  which  was  told  me  by  one,  who  was 
himself  a  witness  of  its  truth,  proves  that  this  want  of  cordial 
reconciliation  reaches  beyond  the  King.  At  a  dinner  at  Carleton 
House*  more  than  a  year  ago,  the  party  having  as  usual  remained 
at  table  till  a  late  hour,  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  who  has  been  uniform 
in  his  sentiments  respecting  America,  addressing  himself  in  an 
audible  voice  to  another  of  the  guests,  said,  We  have  been  drink- 
ing to  the  health  of  great  men,  I  will  name  one  whom  we  must  all 
agree  to  be  really  a  great  &  virtuous  man — I  drink  to  the  health 
of  Genl.  Washington.     The  name  was  no  sooner  uttered  than  the 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  203 


Prince  rose  from   his    chair,   left  the    room    and  broke   up    the 
Party. 

Some  time  since  I  informed  you  of  my  motives  in  taking  pains 
to  effect  the  Publication  of  Sir  Wm.  Scott's  Decisions  in  Prize 
cases.  Having  by  way  of  encouragement  subscribed  for  a  num- 
ber of  Copies,  some  of  which  have  been  sent  to  you,  I  shall  send 
you  a  dozen  more  by  Mr.  Dandridge,  who  leaves  me  in  a  day  or 
two. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.    63. 

London,  March  6,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  not  yet  heard  anything  further  from  Lord  Grenville  re- 
specting the  verbal  note  I  delivered  to  him  on  the  18th  ulto.  I 
understand  that  it  has  been  circulated  among  his  colleagues,  &  is 
still  under  consideration.  We  have  French  papers  to  the  28th  of 
last  month,  when  Mr.  Murray  had  probably  arrived  at  Paris,  & 
Messrs.  Ellsworth  &  Davie  were  daily  expected.  I  have  written 
&  sent  to  them  a  letter  upon  the  subject  mentioned  to  you  in  a 
former  dispatch.  Owing  to  the  severe  weather  six  mails  are  now 
due  from  Hamburgh,  and  the  Government  is  altogether  in  the 
dark,  whether  the  Russians  march  to  the  Rhine  or  back  to  their 
own  country.  This  interruption  of  its  communications  with  the 
Continent  is  the  more  perplexing  as  the  campaign  is  on  the  point 
of  opening. 

With  most  perfect  Respect  &  esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER    XV. 

Bingham  to  King — England  may  declare  Blockade  of  French  Ports — Not 
advantageous  to  the  U.  S. — At  Home  antifederal  Party  gaining  Ground— 
Fall  of  Prices  in  Europe  injurious  to  Merchants — King  to  Sec'y  of  State — 
Envoys  arrived — Troup  to  King — Gov.  Jay  living  too  retired — Beneficial 
Use  of  Oxygen  Gas  in  Consumption — Jay  may  retire — Should  declare  his 
Intentions — Coming  Elections — Deep  rooted  Disgust  with  Adams — Cabot  to 
King — Cannot  avoid  opening  an  Intercourse  with  France  if  she  concedes  our 
Demands — Hopes  he  will  remain  in  England — The  Country  has  the  high- 
est Confidence  in  him — New  Alliance  with  France  to  be  dreaded — King 
to  T.  Hume — Missing  Georgia  Records — To  Pickering — Liston's  Letters  to 
J.  Buchanan — Says  he  must  lead  Mr.  Adams  by  the  Nose — Constable  to 
King — Envoys  arrived — Well  received — King  to  Sec'y  of  State — Note 
about  6th  Article  not  yet  answered — Campaign  on  the  Continent  not  yet 
opened — Intentions  of  Russia  uncertain — To  Sec'y  of  State — Lord  Gren- 
ville  does  not  wish  to  enter  into  formal  Discussions  relative  to  explanatory 
articles  of  6th  Article — King  to  Lord  Grenville — About  new  Commissioners 
— General  Answer  to  his  Communication  on  that  Subject — Lord  Grenville's 
specific  Answer  to  King's  Note  of  18th  Feb'y — Accepting  only  the  Making 
of  a  new  Board. 

Wm.  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

Philada.,  March  5,  1800. 

Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  Evils  you  predicted  from  the  want  of  concert  amongst 
the  allies  have  been  fully  matured.  I  am  sorry  to  see  that  they 
extend  to  that  Degree  as  to  occasion  the  Defection  of  the  Russian 
Troops.  I  was  not  unprepared  for  the  Event,  as  my  Letters,  from 
my  Friends,  announced  the  Views  of  Austria  to  be  her  National 
Aggrandizement,  whilst  those  of  Russia  were  directed  to  curbing 
the  Power  &  overthrowing  the  Government  of  France. 

We  have  been  long  deprived  of  any  Intelligence  from  that 
Country.     I  do  not  expect  that  the  recent  revolution  will  have 

204 


i8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  205 

any  Tendency  to  promote  a  general  Peace,  as  a  military  Des- 
potism cannot  be  supported  without  a  large  Military  Estab- 
lishment. 

Denmark  having  acceded  to  the  coalition,  it  is  probable  that 
G.  B.  (if  the  war  continues)  will  attempt  to  form  a  League  of  the 
Maritime  Powers,  whose  object  will  be  to  distress  France,  by 
withholding  all  Supplies  thro'  the  Medium  of  the  Neutral  Flag,  by 
declaring  the  Ports  of  that  Country  to  be  in  a  state  of  Blockade. 
In  connection  with  Holland,  she  had  recourse  to  this  desperate 
measure  during  the  last  century.  Should  she  again  resort  to  it, 
the  United  States  will  be  placed  in  a  disagreeable  Predicament ; 
especially  if  a  Treaty  should  be  formed  with  the  great  Republic, 
as  will  offer  such  conditions  as  will  induce  the  Expediency  of 
ratifying  it.  A  continuation  of  our  prohibitory  System  would 
have  been  much  more  eligible  &  dignified  than  a  Renunciation  of 
our  Intercourse  with  France,  thro'  the  Medium  of  an  extraneous 
Interference  opposed  to  the  Principles  of  the  Law  of  Nations. 
However  such  conjectures  may  be  ill  formed,  but  if  unlooked  for 
Changes  take  place,  we  must  adapt  our  Policy  &  arrange  our 
Measures  so  as  to  conform  to  the  new  State  of  Things. 

We  have  a  very  decided  Majority  in  the  House,  and  that  in  the 
Senate  nearly  in  the  same  Proportion,  as  when  you  left.  Any 
official  System  which  will  not  too  violently  oppose  the  Temper  of 
the  Times  may  be  readily  adopted.  Unfortunately  by  unremitting 
Industry  &  Perseverance,  aided  by  the  most  skilful  Address  to  the 
Passions  &  low  Interests  of  the  People,  the  Antifederal  Party  in 
some  of  the  States,  is  gaining  Ground.  It  will  not  be  determined 
on  any  National  Calculation,  untill  the  Result  of  the  State  Elec- 
tions of  New  York  &  Jersey  is  known,  what  will  be  the  probable 
Issue  of  the  next  Election  of  a  President.  In  this  State  there 
will  be  no  Election  of  Electors  or  an  arrangement  for  district 
Elections,  in  Consequence  of  a  Compromise  which  will  neutralize 
the  votes  ;  as  each  Party  has  its  Majority  in  either  one  or  other 
of  the  Branches. 

A  Schism  which  has  taken  place  between  the  President  & 
some  of  his  Friends  on  the  Subject  of  the  French  Mission,  will 
tend  to  weaken  the  Efforts,  if  not  divide  the  Interests  of  some 
influential  Persons.  It  is  not  determined  who  will  be  the  federal 
Candidate  as  Vice  President.     General  Pinckney  has  some  warm 


206  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Supporters  ;  whilst  others  are  disposed  to  prefer  the  Pretensions 
of  a  Character  from  the  middle  States. 

Your  Suggestion  of  the  Sufferings  of  our  Merchants  from  the 
Failures  &  Fall  of  Prices  in  Europe  are  too  well  founded.  Balti- 
more in  particular  has  experienced  the  greatest  Calamities,  hav- 
ing from  too  prevalent  a  Spirit  of  Enterprise  adventured  far 
beyond  its  Resources.  Many  Bankruptcies  have  taken  place 
&  many  more  are  expected  &  such  is  its  Distress,  that  its 
Merchants  have  asked  the  aid  of  the  Government,  by  suspending 
for  a  limited  Time,  the  Collection  of  the  Duties  in  that  Port, 
which  is  a  Mode  of  Relief,  which  does  not  altogether  meet  my 
approval  for  various  Reasons.  Other  trading  Cities  will  likewise 
suffer,  but  not  in  the  same  degree.  This  Country's  remote  Situa- 
tion from  Europe  will  always  be  an  Obstacle  to  availing  itself  of 
the  Variety  of  Circumstances  which  influence  the  Rise  &  Fall  of 
its  Exports. 

The  Death  of  General  Washington  has  exhibited  the  literary 
character  of  our  Country  in  a  Variety  of  funeral  Orations  &  Eulo- 
giums,  some  of  which  have  a  great  Share  of  Merit,  &  others  are 
below  Mediocrity.  As  soon  as  I  can  find  a  direct  Opportunity,  I 
will  send  you  a  copy  of  each  of  them. 

With  Sincerity  &  Esteem  &c. 

Wm.  Bingham. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 
No.  64. 

London,  March  13,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  have  the  Paris  papers  to  the  9th  inst.  which  state  that 
Messrs.  Ellsworth  &  Davie  arrived  there  on  the  4th,  &  that  Joseph 
Buonaparte,  Fleurieu  &  Roederer  were  appointed  to  treat  with 
them  &  Mr.  Murray  who  had  before  arrived.  According  to  the 
intelligence  received  by  these  Papers,  the  Austrians,  as  well  as 
the  French  are  making  the  greatest  preparations  for  the  Campaign 
that  seems  on  the  point  of  opening.  We  are  still  without  mails 
from  Hamburgh,  &  therefore  without  any  other  information  than 


i8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  207 


that  of  the  French  Papers  respecting  the  Russians,  who  it  is  be- 
lieved have  returned  home. 

I  have  received  your  number  72,  and  am  in  daily  expectation 
of  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Sitgreaves.  No  further  progress  is  yet  made 
in  the  negotiation  concerning  the  6th  Article  of  our  Treaty  with 
this  Country. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  9th  March,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  General  efforts  are  now  making  in  the  Legislature  by 
Mr.  Williamson  &  his  friends  to  have  the  western  roads  turn- 
piked  ;  and  if  the  object  can  be  accomplished,  of  which  I  am  far 
from  despairing,  the  improvement  of  the  country  will  travel  on 
with  much  quicker  step.     .     . 

The  Governor's  (Mr.  Jay)  mode  of  living  is  too  retired.  His 
house  is  unfavorable  to  the  entertainment  of  company,  and  Mrs. 
Jay  has  not  been  in  a  situation  to  be  with  company  for  several 
months  past.  I  never  saw  her  when  at  Albany  last  October,  nor 
during  my  last  visit.  She  is  undoubtedly  in  the  first  stage  of 
a  decline.  At  present  she  is  living  on  a  species  of  air,  prepared 
by  Dr.  Stringham  at  Albany  (Oxygen  gas)  from  which  she  is  sup- 
posed to  have  derived  some  benefit.  This  air  seems  to  have 
renovated  Genl.  Schuyler  and  Mrs.  Patroon,  both  of  whom 
within  eighteen  months  past,  were  considered  as  in  a  dying  state. 
Mrs.  Patroon  appears  nearly  as  well  as  I  ever  saw  her.  .  .  . 
Genl.  Schuyler  is  so  recovered  that  he  really  gives  ground  for 
believing  that  he  is  immortal.  .  .  .  Lawrance  resolved  to 
resign  as  soon  as  the  present  sitting  of  Congress  is  over.  Watson, 
it  is  also  generally  supposed,  will  resign.  His  senatorial  duties 
interfere  with  his  duties  as  naval  agent  of  the  United  States  for 
New  York.  Mr.  Morris,  in  all  probability,  will  succeed  one  of 
these  gentlemen.  Who  will  be  the  other  Senator  I  cannot  divine. 
The  Patroon  would  accept,   and  indeed  it  is  said  he  wishes  the 


208  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

appointment.  But  his  friends  are  rather  inclined  to  keep  him  in 
the  State  with  a  view  to  succeeding  Mr.  Jay  as  Governor.  Our 
election  for  Governor  comes  on  next  April  twelve  month,  and  if 
Mr.  Jay  should  leave  us  we  have  no  other  man  that  we  can  hold 
up  as  his  successor.  This  is  universally  assented  to.  The 
Patroon  declares  against  the  measure,  but  we  shall  be  constrained 
to  insist  upon  his  serving,  if  elected,  and  to  reject  his  refusal. 

It  is  desirable  that  Mr.  Jay  should  now  declare  his  intention, 
but  he  says  he  is  uncertain  whether  he  will  consent  to  be  sup- 
ported again,  and  that  he  cannot  declare  himself  till  the  meeting 
of  the  Legislature  in  November  next  for  the  appointment  of 
Electors  of  President  and  Vice  President.  My  suspicion  is  that 
if  we  lose  the  ensuing  election  of  members  of  the  Legislature, 
which  will  be  all  important  as  to  the  election  of  President  and 
Vice  President,  Mr.  Jay  will  consider  it  as  a  decisive  index  of 
the  public  mind  as  to  his  own  election  and  that  he  will  quit  us. 
If  we  succeed  in  the  ensuing  election,  he  will  then  consent  to  be 
a  candidate.  It  is  certain  that  we  cannot  take  up  a  federal  can- 
didate who  will  run  more  heavily  than  he  will.  Our  party  is 
considerably  weakened,  and  causes  exist  and  are  daily  operating, 
which  will  most  probably  render  it  still  weaker  a  twelve  month 
hence. 

During  the  present  administration  we  have  lost  not  a  little 
ground.  This  I  have  heretofore  suggested  to  you,  and  I  have  no 
doubt  you  received  it  with  astonishment.  The  fact  is  neverthe- 
less so.  The  chancellor  and  Burr  have  unquestionably  a  view  to 
the  office  of  governor,  and  it  will  be  fortunate  for  us  if  they  both 
persist  in  their  pretensions.     .     .     . 

This  election  will  be  all  important,  (to  choose  a  Legislature  to 
appoint  electors)  and  particularly  so  as  there  is  a  decided  and  deep 
rooted  disgust  with  Mr.  Adams  on  the  part  of  his  best  old  friends.  I 
understand  from  correct  authority  that  the  Eastern  delegation  in 
Congress,  almost  entirely,  if  not  wholly,  believe  that  the  preserva- 
tion of  the  federal  cause  essentially  depends  on  removing  Mr.  Adams 
and  appointing  a  7nore  discreet  man  to  the  Presidency.  You  will 
naturally  exclaim,  is  this  possible  ?  It  is  more  than  possible,  it  is 
really  too  true.  By  the  next  Packet  I  will  be  particular  on  this 
head,  at  present  I  merely  announce  the  fact.  Hence  you  will  see 
the  necessity  of  making  every  possible  exertion  to  have  a  decided 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  209 

majority  of  sound  electors.  If  Adams  should  be  abandoned, 
and  nothing  but  great  hazard  of  losing  the  election  will  prevent 
it,  it  is  probable,  but  not  yet  settled,  that  the  Chief  Justice  and 
General  Charles  C.  Pinckney  will  be  run  by  us — the  former  as 
President  and  the  latter  as  Vice  Prest.  We  are  full  of  anxiety  here 
about  the  election  of  our  members  of  the  Legislature.  It  is  next 
to  an  impossibility,  to  get  men  of  weight  and  influence  to  serve. 
I  do  not  however  despair  that  we  shall  be  successful.  We  must 
bring  into  action  all  our  energies  ;  if  we  do  not  the  election  is 
lost — and  if  our  Legislature  should  give  us  anti-federal  electors, 
Jefferson  will  be  in.  On  the  other  side,  they  will  lose  the  aid  of 
Pennsylvania.  That  state  will  not  appoint  electors — their  Legisla- 
ture is  so  divided,  and  so  obstinately  divided,  that  they  will  not 
pass  an  election  law.  The  House  of  Assembly  being  democratical 
wish  a  law  for  a  general  ticket,  and  the  Senate  being  federal  pre- 
fer and  adhere  to  a  law  for  a  district  ticket.  This  is  an  event 
from  which  I  derive  no  small  degree  of  consolation.     .     .     . 

As  ever  yours 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

March  14,  1800. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  We  are  looking  with  much  anxiety  for  the  issue  of  our 
mission  to  France.  Doubtless  our  Commissioners  know  where 
all  the  danger  is,  but  if  their  antagonists  are  as  subtle,  as  French 
Negotiators  are  commonly  supposed  to  be,  they  will  carry  their 
point  ;  if  they  yield  everything  they  will  gain  everything.  I  am 
not  able  to  see  how  we  can  avoid  opening  an  Intercourse  with 
France,  if  she  concedes  all  we  demand,  &  she  must  be  stupid  not 
to  make  concessions  which  will  cost  her  nothing  but  a  sheet  of 
parchment  &  will  obtain  for  her  every  thing  in  our  power  to  give. 
1  say  this  upon  the  idea  that  France  by  meeting  us  on  our  own 
terms,  may  draw  us  so  far  into  her  vortex  as  to  give  to  her  Enemies 
the  appearance  of  our  being  her  accomplice  &  thus  provoke  them 
to  measures  of  hostility  against  us.  This  view  of  the  subject  sup- 
poses the  coalesced  powers  to  be  the  Dupes  of  their  own  passions, 

VOL.  Ill— 14 


210  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

but  I  am  forcibly  struck  with  your  remark  that  the  influence  of 
Pride  upon  nations  is  as  certain  as  that  of  interest,  &  perhaps 
more  frequent.  I  also  subscribe  to  your  opinion  that  the  magni- 
tude of  the  events  which  daily  occur  give  unusual  force  to  this 
sentiment. 

I  have  seen  nothing  from  Philadelphia  for  a  long  time.  There 
is  apparently  a  good  majority  of  Federalists  in  Congress,  but  it  did 
seem  as  if  the  spirit  of  Federalism  was  neutralized  by  the  peculiar 
state  of  its  head.  Our  Newspapers  will  inform  you  that  my  Col- 
league Strong  is  our  Candidate  for  Governor,  &  that  Gerry  is  his 
Competitor.  If  the  latter  shou'd  possibly  succeed,  I  shall  attribute 
it  to  the  influence  he  has  derived  from  Great  patronage  &  which 
doubtless  still  continues.  I  ought  however  to  say  to  you  that 
Strong  may  be  carried  with  certainty,  if  the  Federalists  exert 
themselves  as  much  as  they  have  done  for  several  years  past. 

I  have  been  silent  on  the  irreparable  loss  of  our  Great  and 
Good  Washington,  because  without  writing  a  book,  it  wou'd  be 
impossible  to  say  enough.  It  seemed  to  be  a  time  when  we  cou'd 
ill  spare  him.  I  will  send  you  what  Ames  &  some  of  the  best  men 
have  written  upon  the  occasion.  You  may  recollect  that  I  have 
formerly  intreated  you  to  persevere  in  your  present  duties  until 
the  end  of  this  cursed  Rebellion  which  the  French  have  excited 
against  God  &  Man.  I  think  the  worst  of  it  is  past,  &  I  still  in- 
dulge the  hope  of  seeing  its  total  extinction  in  one  successful 
campaign,  or  in  one  well  concerted  enterprise  of  the  Anti-revolu- 
tionists in  France.  But  be  this  as  it  may,  you  are  expected  to 
maintain  with  the  English  that  good  understanding  &  amity 
which  is  so  truly  for  the  interest  of  both,  but  which  is  constantly 
endangered. 

I  know  the  confidence  placed  in  you  by  this  country  is  great, 
and  perhaps  more  is  expected  than  is  in  any  man's  power  to  per- 
form, but  there  certainly  is  great  scope  for  your  talents  in  shewing 
to  the  English  the  advantages  of  peace,  and  the  dangers  as  well 
as  inconveniences  of  war  with  us.  Our  local  situation,  extent  of 
coast  and  numerous  harbours  enable  us  to  be  formidable  to  one 
of  the  Great  powers,  when  we  are  associated  in  tvar  with  the  other  j 
the  British  Colonies  on  our  right  and  left  present  many  strong 
dissuasions  of  war  to  the  parent  State  ;  there  ought  to  be  no  in- 
terruption to  that  beneficial  commerce  in  which  we  are  becoming 


i8oo]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  211 

inestimable  customers  to  Great  Britain  ;  if  not  forced  to  do  other- 
wise we  shall  for  half  a  century  consume  of  the  manufactures  of 
G.  B.  more  than  all  the  world  beside  ;  I  mean,  to  exclude  her  own 
consumption. 

New  animosities  will  surely  prevent  this  in  a  degree  ;  as  often 
as  necessity  operates  we  make  new  efforts  to  supply  ourselves,  & 
tho'  many  attempts  fail,  some  always  succeed  ;  &  altho'  our 
pecuniary  interest  wou'd  be  best  promoted  by  importation,  yet 
that  interest  may  be  made  to  yield  to  other  interests.  There  is 
nothing  so  much  to  be  dreaded  by  a  true  American,  as  a  new  al- 
liance with  France  ;  yet  something  like  it  in  effect  wou'd  follow 
a  war  with  England.  Wou'd  not  this  be  madness  in  British  policy 
to  produce  ?  her  Rival  wou'd  finally  be  enabled  to  triumph  over 
her  ;  neither  France,  nor  the  U.  S.  can  be  conquered  by  the 
English,  but  Canada,  New  Brunswick,  Nova  Scotia,  and  after- 
wards the  W.  I.  islands  cou'd  be  easily  conquer'd  or  ruined. 

Yours  truly  and  faithfully, 

G.  C. 


R.  King  to  Thomas  Hume. 

London,  March  16,  1800. 
Sir  : 

The  Governor  of  Georgia  having  had  some  reason  to  believe, 
that  the  missing  Laws,  together  with  the  Records  of  the  Land 
Office  &  other  important  Papers  belonging  to  the  late  Colony  of 
Georgia  had  been  removed  to  this  country,  I  have  at  his  request 
lately  made  application  to  Lord  Grenville  that  a  search  should  be 
made  for  them  at  Somerset  House,  where  we  hoped  to  have  found 
them  among  the  claims  of  the  American  Loyalists.  This  search 
has  been  made  but  without  success  ;  and  though  there  seems  to 
be  a  faint  recollection  that  one  or  two  trunks  of  Carolina  or 
Georgia  papers,  were  some  years  ago  in  one  of  the  offices  of  the 
Treasury,  no  one  can  give  any  account  that  enables  us  to  discover 
them.  Speaking  upon  this  subject  to  your  nephew  Mr.  Houstoun, 
he  suggested  the  idea  that  it  was  possible  that  from  your  connec- 
tion with  the  Colony  of  Georgia,  you  might  be  able  to  give  some 
such  information  respecting  these  papers,  as  would  assist  us  in  re- 


212  RUFUS  KING.  [180a 

covering  them,  an  object  that  is  daily  becoming  more  &  more 
important  in  regard  to  the  Titles  of  many  valuable  Estates  in  that 
country.  As  I  had  not  the  honor  of  being  known  to  you  I  begged 
Mr.  Houstoun  to  mention  the  subject  of  our  conversation  to  you, 
and  to  request  you  to  be  so  obliging  as  to  communicate  to  me  in 
his  absence  such  information  &  conjectures,  as  in  your  opinion 
would  be  likely  to  promote  our  wishes  ;  he  accordingly  sent  me 
the  inclosed  letter  for  you,  just  before  his  departure  for  Georgia,, 
&  I  take  the  liberty  to  add  to  what  he  has  written  that  we  shall 
be  very  much  obliged  to  you  for  any  hint  that  may  put  us  in  the 
way  of  obtaining  these  important  papers. 

With  perfect  consideration  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

(Private,  in  cipher.) 

London,  24th  March,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

James  Buchanan  an  adopted  American,  by  birth  Scotch,  and  who 
has  lived  many  years  as  a  merchant  at  Baltimore,  has  lately  arrived 
in  this  country  with  the  expectation  of  settling  his  affairs  which 
are  much  deranged.  He  speaks  of  having  been  much  acquainted 
with  Mr.  Liston,  as  well  as  his  confidential  correspondent.  I  have 
myself  heard  him  express  sentiments  to  this  effect.  In  conversa- 
tion he  is  loose,  unguarded  and  imprudent,  and  from  what  I  have 
heard  of  him,  unworthy  of  confidence.  He  shews  several  letters 
from  Liston  to  him  and  most  probably  received  from  him  intro- 
ductions to  some  subordinate  men  in  office  in  this  country.  Hav- 
ing heard  of  the  extraordinary  tenor  of  some  of  Mr.  Liston's 
letters  to  Buchanan,  I  have  been  desirous  of  obtaining  a  sight  of 
them.  But  as  Buchanan  has  been  admonished  that  they  were  of 
a  delicate  nature  and  will  naturally  be  on  his  guard  against  me 
and  my  particular  friends  I  may  be  disappointed.  I  have  how- 
ever obtained  and  now  send  you  an  extract  from  one  of  them,, 
that  will  not  fail  to  excite  the  same  indignation  in  your  mind  that 
it  has  produced  in  mine.  You  may  give  unreserved  credit  to  the 
authenticity  of  the  letter  as  well  as  to  the  fidelity  of  the  extract. 
I  desire  that  it  may  be  communicated  to  your  colleagues,  whom 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  213 

it  names  and  also  to  the  President,  if  you  and  they  think  proper. 
From  the  looseness  and  indiscretion  of  Buchanan,  it  is  possible 
that  the  letter  may  fall  into  hands  disposed  to  make  an  unfriendly 
and  mischievous  use  of  it. 

Whether  you  will  openly  reproach  Mr.  Liston  with  his  vanity 
and  falsehood,  or  observe  towards  him  a  reserve  that  his  impru- 
dence renders  indispensable,  is  a  question  of  some  difficulty.  Un- 
less you  shall  see  some  advantage  in  making  use  of  my  name,  it 
may  be  as  well  that  I  remain  out  of  sight.  From  this  specimen 
of  Mr.  Liston's  statements  you  can  be  at  no  loss  to  conjecture  the 
tenor  of  his  public  dispatches,  of  the  erroneous  and  mischievous 
opinions  they  are  likely  to  create  here. 

With  sincere  attachment  &c 

Rufus  King. 

Extract  (referred  to  in  foregoing  letter)  : 

"We  ourselves  are  anxious  to  change  the  scene  and  if  the 
President  goes  to  Boston,  as  we  flatter  ourselves  he  will,  about  the 
latter  end  of  this  month,  we  shall  follow  him  as  soon  as  possible. 
You  know  as  the  House  of  Representatives  are  no  longer  in  ses- 
sion, I  have  no  more  taps  on  the  shoulder  to  give  for  the  present. 
I  must  now  endeavour  to  lead  Mr.  Adams  by  the  nose  (which  is 
not  a  task  of  such  facility  as  some  folks  imagine)  and  with  this 
view  I  propose  to  fix  my  quarters  for  some  time  at  Braintree. 
You  might  perhaps  suppose  I  should  be  as  well  employed  in  hold- 
ing conferences  with  my  bosom  friend  the  Secretary  of  State  or 
in  keeping  Oliver  Wolcott  and  Mr.  Henry  right.  But  they  are  all 
so  staunch  that  I  have  now  no  occasion  to  look  after  them  ;  they 
are  ready  to  go  as  fast  and  as  far  as  I  wish  them  to  go.  You  will 
observe  that  I  have  also  got  Genl.  Washington  to  accept  of  the 
command  and  to  write  a  proper  letter.  I  thought  it  essential,  he 
should  give  an  unequivocal  approbation  to  the  President's  con- 
duct and  touch  up  the  Directory.  I  had  prepared  all  this  in  the 
autumn  last  year. 

"  In  short,  my  dear  Sir,  I  am  the  most  successful  and  effective  fly 
upon  the  wheel,  that  ever  pretended  to  raise  a  dust  on  any  road  in 
any  part  of  the  world.  Everything  will  soon  be  so  completely  in 
train  that  I  shall  have  nothing  to  do  but  run  about  and  see  my 
friends." 


214  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Wm.  Constable  to  R.  King. 

Paris,  30th  March,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Our  Commiss'rs.  have  been  very  cordially  received,  but 
as  yet  have  not  commenced  operations.  J.  Bonaparte,  Rcederer 
and  Fleurieu  are  named  to  treat  with  them,  and  Mr.  Laboree, 
Secretary  of  the  Commission.  Not  one  of  the  number  speaks  a 
word  of  English,  and  ours  are  nearly  as  ignorant  of  the  French  ; 
Mr.  Murray  alone  having  a  very  limited  knowledge  of  it.     .     .     . 

With  respect  &  esteem  &c 

Wm.  Constable. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  65. 

London,  3d  April,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  still  without  any  communication  from  Lord  Grenville 
upon  the  Subject  of  the  Verbal  Note  I  delivered  to  him  on  the 
18th  of  February.  If  the  annexed  pages  from  the  Anti-Jacobin 
Review  for  the  Month  of  March,  do  not  greatly  exaggerate  & 
misrepresent  the  Sentiments  of  the  English  Cabinet,  they  will  per- 
haps assist  you  *  in  appreciating  the  nature  and  probable  issue  of 
our  present  situation  with  this  Country. \  It  would  afford  me  satis- 
faction could  I  assure  you  that  I  consider  these  false  &  libellous 
publications  either  as  innocent  in  respect  to  our  reputation  & 
public  concerns,  or  as  entirely  differing  from  the  opinions  of  the 
Gov.  The  Delay  that  I  experience  after  the  Manifestation  of 
so  much  zeal  to  go  on  when  I  was  not  ready,  may  arise  from  the 
pressure  of  more  urgent  concerns,  or  it  may  proceed  from  causes 
that  will  protract  the  negotiation  for  several  months. 

We  have  Paris  Papers  to  the  29th  ultimo.  The  Campaign  upon 
the  Rhine  had  not  opened  on  the  20th  tho'  the  armies  were  as- 
sembled upon  the  Banks  of  that  river,  and  great  preparations  were 
made  by  the  French  to  pass  it.  It  is  believed  that  the  Austrians, 
assisted  by  the  English  naval  force  in  the  Mediterranean  have 

*  Simply  underscored,     f  Italics  in  cipher. 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  21 5 

before  this  time  attempted  to  expel  the  French  from  the  Genoese 
Territories,  &  great  confidence  is  entertained  that  Malta  has 
fallen  or  will  be  obliged  soon  to  capitulate.  I  hear  that  the  Eng- 
lish will  neither  assist  nor  impede  the  remains  of  Buonaparte's 
Egyption  army  in  their  return  to  France. 

From  the  North,  we  have  contradictory  reports  of  the  inten- 
tions of  Russia,  and  it  is  not  easy  to  decide  whether  the  Emperor 
will  afford  to  the  allies  any  material  aid  in  the  approaching  Cam- 
paign. The  British  troops,  now  embarking  &  which  are  said  to 
be  14,000  &  destined  for  the  Mediterranean,  may  possibly  have  the 
destination  intimated  in  my  No.  61. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.   66. 

London,  April  7,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

As  I  may  not  be  able  to  see  Lord  Grenville  again  for  some 
days,  he  having  gone  to  his  Country  House,  where  he  will  prob- 
ably remain  thro'  the  Easter  Holidays,  I  think  it  proper  to 
acquaint  you,  that  in  a  conference  I  had  with  his  Lordship  the  day 
before  yesterday,  he  distinctly  informed  me  that  it  was  the  unani- 
mous opinion  of  himself  &  colleagues  not  to  enter  into  the  formal 
discussion  of  the  explanatory  articles  which  I  had  proposed  to  him 
on  the  1 8th  of  February,  as  they  saw  no  probability  that  the  two 
Governments  would  be  able  to  agree  in  any  Explanations  on  that 
Subject ;  but  that  they  would  consent  to  the  dissolution  of  the 
present  Board,  &  to  the  appointment  of  a  new  set  of  Commissioners 
who  should  be  governed  by  the  stipulations  already  concluded* 
without  regarding  the  constructive  Resolutions  of  the  former  Com- 
missioners ;  the  5th  Commissioner  to  be  named  by  the  King  ;  and 
instead  of  two  Americans  being  appointed  by  the  President,  and 
two  British  Subjects  by  the  King,  that  the  President  should  ap- 
point one  American,  &  name  a  British  subject  to  whose  appoint- 
ment the  King's  consent  should  be  requisite,  and  that  the  King 
should  appoint  one  British  subject  and  name  one  American  to 


2l6  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

whose  appointment  the  President's  consent  should  be  requisite. 
This  modification  of  the  choice  of  the  Commissioners,  it  was  sug- 
gested, might  diminish  the  influence  of  national  prejudice  on  both 
sides  ;  but  I  conclude  that  it  is  not  thought  of  sufficient  import- 
ance to  be  insisted  upon  if  the  former  mode  of  choice  should  be 
preferred.  I  cannot  now  send  you  a  detail  of  the  Reasons  upon 
which  his  Lordship  placed  their  refusal  to  agree  to  or  discuss  the 
explanatory  Articles  that  we  had  proposed.  After  hearing  the 
few  words  in  which  he  communicated  this  decision,  I  only  replied 
that  I  would  consider  of  what  he  had  informed  me,  and  take 
the  earliest  opportunity  of  communicating  to  him  the  result  of  my 
reflections. 

I  accordingly  called  to-day  at  his  Lordship's  house,  but  he  had 
left  town  early  in  the  morning.  It  was  my  intention  to  have  rep- 
resented to  him  the  Reasons  why  upon  the  appointment  of  a  new 
Board  of  Commissioners,  it  would  be  necessary  that  certain  Ex- 
planatory Rules  should  be  settled  for  the  government  of  their 
Proceedings,  &  to  inform  him  that  I  was  not  authorized  to  agree 
to  a  new  Commission  without  such  Rules. 

We  have  Paris  papers  to  the  3rd.  The  Campaign  had  not  then 
opened.  They  state  that  the  French  Commissioners  appointed 
to  negotiate  with  those  of  the  United  States  met  on  the  1st  instant 
for  the  purpose  of  exchanging  their  Powers.  The  French  and 
Spanish  Fleet  at  Brest,  amounting  to  more  than  forty  sail  of  the 
Line  are  ready  for  sea.  Upwards  of  15,000  troops  are  actually 
embarked,  &  here  it  is  fully  believed  that  they  will  come  out. 
Their  destination,  supposed  to  be  Ireland  or  Portugal,  probably 
the  latter.  Lord  Bridport  was  on  the  31st  ulto.  off  Brest  with  28 
sail  of  the  line  ;  five  or  six  more  may  since  have  joined  him. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

{Private?) 

Great  Cumb.  Place,  April  8,  1800. 
My  Lord  : 

I  called  at  your  Lordship's  house  soon  after  you   left   town 

yesterday  with  the  view  of  expressing  my  ideas  of  the  importance 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  21 J 

of  a  new  board  of  Commissioners,  &  likewise  to  say  that  not  hav- 
ing authority  to  agree  to  the  appointment  of  a  new  set  of  Comrs. 
without  such  rules,  I  could  do  no  more  than  transmit  yr.  Ldp's 
answer  to  my  Govr.  I  will  do  myself  the  honor  of  waiting  upon 
yr.  Ldp.  upon  this  subject  at  any  hour  that  you  shall  name  after 
yr.  return  to  town. 

I  have  the  honor  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

{Private. ) 

Dropmore,  Apl.  9,  1800. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Having  his  Majesty's  permission  to  be  absent  for  the  next  ten 
days,  I  shall  not,  except  in  the  case  of  any  particular  business, 
return  till  towards  the  end  of  next  week,  when  our  Easter 
Holidays  finish. 

It  appeared  to  all  the  King's  servants  that  the  Proposals  con- 
tained in  the  paper  you  left  with  me,  were  in  no  respect  explana- 
tory of  the  Treaty,  but  in  manifest  contradiction  to  it  ;  and  that 
any  discussing  of  them  would  have  been  on  our  part  an  admission 
of  the  propriety  of  treating  afresh  upon  a  subject  long  since  settled 
by  a  Treaty,  the  British  part  of  which  has  been  faithfully  and  un- 
reservedly executed,  and  under  circumstances  of  objection  not 
materially  differing  from  those  now  urged  by  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  as  a  plea  for  opening  a  fresh  negotiation. 

If  therefore  your  idea  of  explanatory  Rules  has  reference  to 
these  points,  I  cannot  but  express  to  you  our  resolution  not  to 
accede  to  them.  If  only  to  matters  of  practical  convenience  & 
arrangement  of  business,  I  will  readily  receive  and  submit  for 
consideration  any  suggestion  of  that  nature  with  which  you  will 
favor  me,  either  by  letter  or  viva  voce  when  I  return  to  London. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  &c. 

Grenville. 


2l8  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 


Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

{Private?) 

Dropmore,  April  10,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  enclose  you  the  answer  of  his  Majesty's  Government  to  the 
proposals  contained  in  the  Paper  which  you  delivered  to  me.  It  is 
so  full  as  to  require  no  additional  explanations  ;  and  it  is  the  result 
of  a  most  deliberate  consideration  of  the  subject,  and  an  attentive 
examination  of  the  Papers  which  have  passed  in  relation  to  it. 

I  am  myself  perfectly  satisfied  after  the  fullest  investigation, 
that  the  course  proposed  by  your  Government  is  one  to  which  we 
cannot  in  common  justice  to  a  most  injured  class  of  the  King's 
subjects  accede  ;  and  that  if  we  did  we  should  increase,  in- 
stead of  removing  the  grounds  of  dissension  between  the  two 
countries. 

If  you  wish  for  further  conversation  upon  this  subject,  I  shall 
be  very  much  at  your  orders,  and  I  beg  you  to  be  persuaded  of 
the  sincere  personal  esteem  and  consideration  with  which  I  have 
the  honor  to  be, 

Dear  Sir,  your  most  faithful  and  most  obedt.  humble  servt. 

Grenville. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

{Private.') 

Great  Cumbd.  Place,  April  n,  1800. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  had  the  honor  to  receive  your  Lordship's  Letter  of  the 
9th  instant,  and  am  concerned  to  perceive  so  wide  a  difference 
between  your  opinion  &  that  of  the  American  Government  re- 
pecting  the  just  interpretation  of  the  Sixth  Article  of  our  Treaty 
of  Amity,  and  the  more  so,  as  while  this  difference  of  opinion 
continues  to  exist,  there  can  be  little  reason  to  expect  that  the 
majority  of  a  new  set  of  Commissioners,  composed  as  it  would  be, 
would  be  likely  to  dissent  from  the  opinions  of  the  majority  of 
the  present  board,  or  that  the  change  of  men  would  make  a 
change  in  the  Principles  &  Proceedings  to  which  we  think  our- 
selves justified  in  objecting. 

It  is  not  my  intention  to  slide  into  an  examination  of  this  sub- 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  219 

ject  after  notice  that  the  door  is  shut  against  its  discussion  ;  but 
however  defensible  your  Lordship  may  consider  the  principles  & 
proceedings  in  question,  or  whatever  objection  may  prevent  our 
respective  governments  from  entering  into  amicable  and  candid 
explanations  respecting  them,  I  should  be  wanting  in  the  frank- 
ness that  the  occasion  seems  to  require,  if  I  did  not  without  re- 
serve express  to  your  Lordship  my  conviction  that  the  proposed 
explanations  have  not  been  lightly  or  inconsiderately  offered  ; 
that  the  interpretations,  against  which  they  are  calculated  to 
guard  us,  are  repugnant  to  the  plain  &  natural  meaning  of  the 
article ;  and  that  with  a  disposition  to  overlook  unessential 
errors,  and  to  give  full  effect  to  our  stipulations  upon  this  sub- 
ject, we  ought  not  from  a  mistaken  apprehension  that  the  public 
faith  would  be  affected  by  the  refusal,  to  acquiesce  in  a  construc- 
tion that  appears  to  us,  and  as  we  believe  will  appear  to  others, 
wholly  to  defeat  the  limitations  and  restraints  of  the  article,  and 
on  a  subject  of  great  magnitude  to  convert  a  conditional  into  an 
absolute  engagement. 

I  am  not  sure  that  I  comprehend  the  nature  and  effect  of  the 
Regulations  to  which  your  Lordship  refers  towards  the  close  of 
your  Letter  ;  whether  the  desired  explanations  are  formally  or 
informally  adopted  must  be  matter  of  little  importance,  &  about 
which  there  ought  to  be  no  disagreement  provided  they  reach  & 
remove  the  objections  which  stand  in  the  way  of  a  fair  &  satis- 
factory execution  of  the  Treaty  :  but  of  what  your  Lordship  calls 
Rules  of  practical  convenience  and  arrangement  of  business  will 
afford  the  security  against  the  adventurous  and  groundless  con- 
structions which  have  occasioned  the  separation  of  the  Board,  it 
would  in  my  apprehension  be  fallacious  to  look  for  such  a  conclu- 
sion of  this  business,  as  it  was  the  original  &  mutual  expectation 
and  interest  of  the  two  countries  to  attain. 

In  the  present  uncertain  state  of  this  affair,  I  see  nothing  that 
it  remains  for  me  to  do,  but  to  request  of  your  Lordship  an 
answer  according  to  the  intimation  of  your  intention  in  our  last 
conference,  to  the  propositions  I  had  before  submitted  to  your 
consideration  in  order  that  I  may  send  the  same  without  loss  of 
time  to  my  government. 

With  sincere  Regard  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


220  RUFUS  ICING.  [1800 

In  response  to  the  request  of  Mr.  King  that  Lord  Gren- 
ville  would  send  him,  for  transmission  to  his  government, 
an  answer  in  accordance  with  the  intimations  of  his  inten- 
tions at  their  last  conference  relative  to  the  propositions 
submitted  to  him,  an  answer  was  given  on  April  19th, 
giving  a  history  of  the  formation  of  the  treaty,  of  the  duties 
and  powers  of  the  commissions  provided  for  in  it  for  the 
settlement  of  the  claims  of  citizens  against  their  respective 
governments  for  losses  during  the  war,  and  of  the  appoint- 
ment of  the  commissioners  under  the  6th  and  7th  arti- 
cles ;  of  the  troubles  which  had  occurred  in  carrying  out 
their  duties;  disagreements  in  both,  which  had  been  happily 
removed  in  reference  to  the  7th  article,  but  which  had 
broken  up  that  under  the  6th  article,  and  of  the  objections 
to  the  settlement  proposed  by  the  government  of  the 
United  States.  The  length  of  this  paper  prevents  the  pub- 
lication of  it  here,  but  it  may  be  stated  in  general  that  the 
suggestion  of  an  explanatory  article  to  be  given  to  the 
■commissioners  for  their  guidance  when  reconvened,  would 
be  virtually  agreeing  to  make  a  new  treaty  about  matters 
which  had  been  committed  to  them  with  definite  instruc- 
tions in  the  article  itself,  and  for  that  reason  that  the  British 
Government  cannot  consent  to  reopen  the  discussion  upon 
the  views  and  action  of  their  commissioners  in  the  conscien- 
tious discharge  of  their  duties,  for  the  government  had  per- 
fect confidence  in  their  high  character,  integrity,  and 
capacity  to  decide  the  questions  submitted  to  them  ;  but 
that  it  is  evident  that 

"  the  disagreements  of  the  present  Commissioners  have  rendered 
it  less  likely  that  the  business  should  satisfactorily  proceed  in 
their  hands  than  in  those  of  persons  to  be  named.  His  Majesty 
therefore  always  wishing  to  contribute  to  conciliation  and  har- 
mony, does  not  object  to  the  proposal  of  withdrawing  the  present 
'Commissioners  and  forming  a  new  Board  under  the  conditions 
proposed  ;  a  new  Board  to  execute  the  same  duty  and  to  be  in- 
vested with  the  same  discretion,  which  the  Treaty  has  given  to 
the  present  Commissioners.     .     .     ." 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Conference  with  Lord  Grenville  relative  to  his  Note 
— Suggests  the  probable  Wisdom  of  paying  a  gross  Sum  for  the  Settlement 
of  all  Claims  by  British  Creditors — To  Pickering — Advantages  from  such  a 
Mode  of  Settlement — To  Secretary  of  State — Unless  Russia  unite  with  the 
Allies,  Denmark  and  Sweden  will  continue  neutral — Misunderstanding  be- 
tween Russia  and  the  Allies  rather  increases — Gore  to  King — Events  in  the 
U.S. — Lord  Grenville  to  King — His  Report  of  Conference  correct — Suggests 
the  Principle  that  the  Decision  of  one  Cause  in  a  Class  of  Claims  should 
settle  all  of  this  Class — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Campaign  in 
Italy  recommenced  favorably  to  the  Allies — No  Change  in  Russia's 
Plans — The  Terms  of  Union  with  Ireland — Simcoe  to  King — His 
Conduct  in  the  Government  of  Canada  the  reverse  of  that  charged 
by  the  Duke  of  Liancourt-Rochefoucault — He  endeavored  to  preserve 
Peace — King  to  Governor  of  Georgia — Records  of  Georgia  found — To 
Lord  Grenville  asking  their  Restoration — Pickering  to  King — Specu- 
lations as  to  the  coming  presidential  Election — Public  Offices  to  be 
removed  to  Washington  in  June  or  July — King  to  Troup — Presidential 
Election — Pleasant  House  nine  Miles  from  London — Must  have  a 
Farm — Pickering's  Removal — Law  of  Blockade — Sedgwick  to  King 
— Bankrupt  Bill  passed — Secretary  of  Treasury  to  report  on  Revenue 
at  Beginning  of  each  Session — Influence  of  Marshall  in  Legislation — Hi's 
Character — Strong  reasoning  Powers,  but  weakens  their  Influence  fre- 
quently before  exerting  them — An  Instance  in  the  Passage  of  a  Law  for 
counting  the  Votes  for  President  in  Case  of  a  Dispute — His  Objections,, 
though  abandoned,  caused  it  to  be  lost — Adams  and  Pinckney  will  be  the 
federal  Candidates. 

Having  received  the  specific  answer  from  Lord  Grenville, 
Mr.  King  reports  in  a  letter  to  the  Secretary  of  State  that 
he  had  been  asked  at  the  last  conference  : 

"  If  I  was  authorized  to  offer  any  specific  sum  of  money  on  the 
payment  of  which  Great  Britain  should  engage  to  satisfy  the  claims 
of  the  British  Creditors  ?  Having  no  such  power,  my  answer  was 
of  course  in  the  negative." 

221 


222  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

The  answer  of  April  19th  having  placed  the  negotiation  in 
a  situation  that  had  not  been  foreseen,  Mr.  King  considered 
it  his  duty  to  refer  it  in  its  present  stage  to  the  further  con- 
sideration of  the  President. 

He  also  asked  for  a  conference  with  Lord  Grenville  for  a 
more  precise  idea  of  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  regu- 
lations suggested  by  him,  which  was  immediately  granted  ; 
and  in  the  following  letter,  April  22d,  the  free  conversation 
was  reported  to  the  Secretary  of  State. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 
No.  67.* 

London,  April  22,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

So  much  impatience  has  appeared  in  respect  to  the  Delay  that 
happened  in  the  transmission  of  my  instructions  concerning  the 
separation  of  the  Commissioners  at  Philadelphia,  that  I  judged  it 
expedient  to  lose  no  time  after  their  arrival  in  beginning  the  nego- 
tiation :  I  accordingly  informed  Lord  Grenville  on  the  day  after 
the  receit  of  your  No.  71,  that  I  was  ready  to  proceed,  and  would 
either  write  to  him  an  official  note  as  the  commencement  of  the 
negotiation,  or  prepare  &  deliver  to  him  an  informal  paper,  con- 
taining the  propositions  we  had  to  offer,  and  which  might 
become  the  subject  of  free  discussion  in  future  conferences.  His 
Lordship  intimated  a  preference  of  the  latter  course,  and  I  accord- 
ingly delivered  to  him  the  Paper  mentioned  in  my  No.  65, f  a  copy 
of  which  is  annexed.  In  my  No.  66\  I  gave  you  an  account  of 
what  passed  between  Lord  Grenville  &  me  in  our  next  conference  ; 
in  addition  to  which  I  might  have  added  that  his  Lordship  asked  if 
I  was  authorized  to  offer  any  specific  sum  of  money,  on  the  pay- 
ment of  which  Great  Britain  should  engage  to  satisfy  the  claims 
of  the  British  Creditors  ?  having  no  such  power  my  answer  was  of 
course  in  the  negative. 

*  Appendix  II. 
f  April  3,  1800. 
%  April  7,  1800. 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  223 


On  the  19th  instant  I  received  his  Lordship's  written  answer  to 
the  proposals  I  had  delivered  to  him  on  the  18th  February,  corre- 
sponding, as  you  will  perceive  by  the  subjoined  copy,  with  the 
verbal  answer  that  had  before  been  given  to  me.  As  this  answer 
precludes  all  discussion  of  the  articles  we  had  proposed  on  the  plea 
that  the  whole  subject  had  been  finally  settled  by  the  Treaty  of 
Amity,  and  that  the  United  States  are  bound  by  the  decision  of 
the  majority  of  the  Commissioners  whether  the  matter  decided 
was  within  or  above  their  powers,  my  first  thought  was  to  prepare 
and  send  to  his  Lordship  a  Note  exposing  the  errorof  a  principle 
that  confounds  the  distinction  between  a  limited  and  an  unlimited 
delegation  of  authority,  and  which  should  at  the  same  time  sup- 
port by  farther  arguments,  the  justice  and  expediency  of  the  ex- 
planatory articles  that  we  had  offered. 

But  as  the  language  of  Lord  Grenville  in  our  conference  was 
equally  explicit  and  decided,  as  that  of  the  Paper  delivered  in 
answer  to  our  Proposals,  I  on  reflection  changed  my  first  opinion, 
from  the  persuasion  that  nothing  would  be  gained  by  that  course 
in  favor  of  the  future  execution  of  the  articles  ;  and  as  the 
answer  had  placed  the  negotiation  in  a  situation  that  had  not  been 
foreseen,  that  it  was  my  duty  to  refer  it  in  its  present  stage  to  the 
further  consideration  of  the  President. 

The  written  answer  of  Lord  Grenville  having  intimated  a  dis- 
position to  accede  to  certain  Regulations,  which  it  was  supposed 
might  facilitate  the  execution  of  the  Treaty,  I  yesterday  asked  a 
conference  with  his  Lordship  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  a  pre- 
cise idea  of  the  nature  &  extent  of  these  Regulations  :  this  was 
immediately  granted,  and  afforded  an  opportunity  for  a  free  con- 
versation upon  the  general  Topic,  as  well  as  respecting  the  partic- 
ular subject  that  brought  us  together.  Many  things  were  said  on 
both  sides,  which  it  would  be  useless  to  repeat  ;  these  therefore 
are  omitted  in  this  Report. 

His  Lordship  observed  that  the  object  of  the  Delay,  that  took 
place  in  London,  was  to  allow  time  for  the  Court  of  Appeals  to 
decide  the  several  Prize  cases  before  their  examination  by  the 
Commissioners,  and  that  a  like  arrangement  might  be  made  in 
respect  to  the  cases  before  the  Commissioners  at  Philadelphia. 
In  regard  to  the  Questions  of  impediment,  solvency,  insolvency, 
and  some  others  of  equal  importance,  Lord  Grenville  said,  their 


224  RUFUS  KING.  [180a 

decision  must  be  left  to  the  provisions  of  the  Treaty,  to  the  par- 
ticular circumstances  of  each  case,  and  to  the  sound  discretion  of 
the  Commissioners  ;  adding  that  upon  a  full  investigation  of  the 
subject  he  was  convinced  that  no  new  &  general  Rule  upon  these 
points  could  be  made  without  affecting  cases  &  claims  that  ought 
not  to  be  affected  ;  and  that  even  with  respect  to  an  agreement  to 
delay  the  cases  before  the  Commissioners  at  Philadelphia,  in  order 
that  the  claimants  should  have  an  opportunity  first  to  obtain  the 
decision  of  our  Courts,  it  would  be  difficult,  not  to  say  impossible, 
for  him  to  form  any  satisfactory  idea  of  what  would  be  a  conven- 
ient time,  unless  he  had  a  more  adequate  knowledge  of  our  Judici- 
ary proceedings  &  a  particular  instead  of  a  general  acquaintance 
with  the  claims.  Upon  this  point,  as  on  most  others,  there  seems  to 
be  wanting  a  discretionary  power  always  present,  and  ready  to  act 
as  occasion  arose,  and  according  to  the  nature  &  circumstances 
of  the  particular  question  ;  that  the  Persons,  whom  he  has  thought 
of  as  two  of  the  Commissioners  to  be  appointed  by  the  King,  were 
men  of  prudence  &  discretion,  &  with  whom  he  thought  we  should 
be  satisfied  ;  that  Mr.  Liston,  having  repeatedly  asked,  &  lately 
received  leave  of  absence  on  account  of  his  health,  might  not  be 
at  Philadelphia,  &  he  saw  no  preferable  course,  in  case  we  acceded 
to  the  suggestion,  to  that  of  sending  these  two  persons  to  Phila- 
delphia to  concert  with  us  such  analogous  Regulations  in  respect 
to  the  Commission  there  as  were  agreed  to  with  regard  to  the 
Commission  here.  We  should  by  this  means  have  an  opportunity 
of  knowing  the  character  and  dispositions  of  the  Persons  sent  to 
prepare  and  agree  to  them  &  who  would  afterwards  be  appointed 
to  assist  in  the  execution  of  the  Treaty. 

Lord  Grenville  asked  me  in  what  time  I  supposed  the  Courts 
would  be  able  to  go  through  the  whole  of  the  cases  ?  I  answered 
that  this  must  chiefly  depend  upon  the  diligence  of  the  Credi- 
tors, and  that  I  could  not  form  any  satisfactory  Estimate  of  the 
time  that  might  be  necessary  ;  on  the  one  hand,  it  should  not 
be  so  short  as,  with  a  disposition  in  the  Courts  to  avoid  delay, 
should  defeat  the  object  of  the  Regulations  ;  and  on  the  other 
hand  it  should  not  be  so  long  as  to  afford  any  ground  from  the 
Delay  to  infer  that  there  was  a  denial  of  justice.  No  precise  time 
was  settled  here,  and  perhaps  none  should  be  at  Philadelphia. 
His  Lordship  asked  if  there  could  be  no  means  found  to  accel- 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  225 

erate  the  trials  ?  I  repeated  the  observation  that  more  would  de- 
pend on  the  diligence  of  the  Creditors,  than  upon  the  Courts  of 
whose  disposition  to  give  the  greatest  despatch  there  could  be  no 
doubt ;  that  a  Law  requiring  extraordinary  sessions  of  the  Courts 
or  prescribing  a  more  summary  proceeding  would  not  only  inter- 
fere with  the  established  course  of  our  Judiciary,  but  give  birth 
to  other  &  still  more  difficult  questions,  which  it  would  be  unwise 
to  agitate. 

His  Lordship  asked  whether  the  cases  before  the  Board  are  any 
of  them  in  a  state  for  the  new  Commissioners  to  take  up,  suggest- 
ing that  it  would  be  desirable  that  the  new  Board  should  at  their 
commencement  have  something  to  do.  I  replied  that  tho'  I  could 
not  then  answer  the  question  with  any  degree  of  accuracy,  I  was 
inclined  to  believe  that  many  cases  were  in  a  situation  that  without 
recourse  to  the  Courts,  might  soon  be  prepared  for  the  Commis- 
sioners to  decide,  also  that  the  progress  of  the  Trials  would  be 
constantly  furnishing  additional  cases. 

Lord  Grenville  expressed  his  opinion  that  the  new  Board  ought 
to  proceed  in  a  different  manner  from  their  predecessors,  by  decid- 
ing cases  singly  one  after  another,  without  attempting  to  decide 
them  by  general  Resolves  &  in  classes. 

I  observed  that  it  was  possible  that  new  difficulties  might  arise 
in  the  course  of  future  proceedings,  &  should  Mr.  Liston  be  ab- 
sent there  would  be  no  one  with  whom  we  could  confer  for  the 
purpose  of  removing  them. 

Lord  Grenville  replied,  that  in  this  case  we  must  endeavour  to 
find  out  a  proper  character  to  supply  Mr.  Liston's  place. 

I  then  asked  Lord  Grenville  if  he  had  formed  any  idea  of  the 
gross  sum,  on  the  payment  of  which  they  would  engage  to  com- 
promise the  claims  of  British  creditors.  His  Lordship  replied 
that  he  had  not,  adding  that  he  thought  the  creditors  had  not 
been  wise  in  swelling,  as  they  had  done,  their  claim  to  four  or  five 
millions  sterling  ;  tho'  it  might  have  no  influence  upon  our  Gov- 
ernment, it  would  be  likely  to  have  some  upon  the  People.  That 
he  himself  did  not  like  the  idea  of  the  payment  of  a  gross  sum,  and 
that  he  mentioned  it  to  me  in  compliance  with  the  opinion  of  his  col- 
leagues ;  but,  that  on  the  supposition  the  debt  due  to  British 
creditors  did  not  exceed  two  millions,  they  might  be  willing  to 
accept  a  gross  sum  of  between  one  and  two  millions. 

VOL.  III. — 15 


226  RUFUS  KING.  [18 


oo 


I  shall,  as  opportunity  offers,  endeavour  to  acquire  further  in- 
formation on  this  subject,  as  it  may  possibly  lead  to  the  satisfac- 
tory conclusion  of  a  most  difficult  business. 

If  it  is  probable  that  we  shall  ultimately  be  required  to  pay 
upon  the  awards  of  the  Commissioners  a  sum  equal  to,  or  not  far 
short,  of  one  for  which  the  business  could  at  once  be  settled, 
would  it  not  be  the  part  of  a  wise  policy  to  engage  to  pay- 
such  sum  by  installments,  or  in  some  other  convenient  manner  ? 
All  further  expense  to  Individuals,  as  well  as  to  the  public,  would 
in  this  mode  of  settlement  be  saved  ;  we  shall  moreover  escape 
the  embarrassment  of  any  future  disagreement  among  the  Com- 
missioners, and  consequent  misunderstanding  between  the  two 
countries  ;  the  trouble  &  vexation  of  numberless  Law-suits  would 
be  prevented,  and  instead  of  the  dissatisfaction  and  ill-will 
towards  us  that  they  would  unavoidably  excite,  a  general  Release 
to  the  Debtors  would  be  a  boon  that  could  not  fail  to  procure 
opposite  sentiments. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

{Private  and  Personal.) 

London,  April  22d,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  order  that  the  President  may  have  all  the  information  in  my 
power  to  communicate  on  the  subject  of  my  official  Letter  of  this 
date,  I  have  concluded  to  send  you  copies  of  the  private  letters 
which  passed  between  Ld.  Grenville  &  me  on  that  subject.  I 
desire,  for  obvious  reasons,  that  this  letter  may  not  be  considered 
as  belonging  to  your  office,  or  in  any  respect  a  public  communi- 
cation. The  more  I  think  of  the  overture  for  the  settlement  of 
the  claims  of  the  British  Creditors  by  the  payment  of  a  gross  sum 
to  their  Government  to  take  them  off  our  hands,  the  better  I  like 
it.  I  am  aware  of  many  objections  to  the  Scheme,  but,  admitting 
their  force,  will  not  the  measure  still  be  a  wise  one  ?  and  may  not 
the  Proposition  be  so  made  as  to  insure  its  success  with  Congress  ? 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  227 


The  business  of  the  Commission  here  would,  as  I  conceive,  be 
soon  brought  to  a  close  ;  and  there  would,  I  think,  be  no  diffi- 
culty in  a  satisfactory  arrangement  upon  this  subject,  provided 
the  claims  of  the  British  Creditors  were  disposed  of. 

This  sort  of  settlement  might  moreover  afford  an  opportunity 
to  obtain  the  possession  of  the  Maryland  Bank  Stock  which  is  the 
everlasting  subject  of  fair  words  that  are  intended  to  mean 
nothing. 

With  sincere  regard  &  esteem,  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  68. 

London,  April  23,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  my  number  56,  I  informed  you  that  a  state  of  things  existed 
at  the  time,  which  made  it  almost  certain  that  Denmark  would*  be 
drawn  into  the  war  and  that  great  exertions  were  employed  to  en- 
gage Sweden  to  adopt  the  sa7?ie  policy.  The  Retreat  of  Russia  has 
doubtless  produced  a  material  change  in  the  politics  of  the  North, 
and  I  have  been  recently  informed  from  the  same  authentic  quar- 
ter from  whence  I  before  derived  my  information  on  that  subject, 
that  unless  Russia  shall  again  unite  her  armies  with  those  of  the 
allies,  and  reengage  in  the  war,  it  is  pretty  certain  that  both  Den- 
mark and  Sweden  tvill  be  suffered  to  continue  their  neutrality. 
The  Emperor  of  Russia  having  given  assurances  to  the  King  of 
Sweden,  that  he  will  support  him  against  any  innovations  by  the 
Diet,  and  these  assurances  having  been  made  known  throughout 
Sweden,  it  is  likely  that  the  Diet  after  assisting  at  the  coronation 
and  adopting  some  Laws  to  retrieve  and  support  the  Public  Credit, 
will  separate  without  attempting  either  Revolution  or  Reform. 

The  campaign  has  not  yet  opened  tho'  it  is  considered  as 
unavoidable. 

By  the  Ship  Active  I  have  sent  you  a  box,  containing  the  addi- 
tional volumes  to  complete  your  set  of  the  Statutes  down  to  the 
present  Session  of  Parliament,  together  with  Crutwell's  Gazetteer, 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


228  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

which  is  the  latest,  and  I  believe  the  best  English  work  extant.  I 
don't  find  that  there  is  any  English  Geographical  work  superior 
to  Guthrie's  which  may  be  had  at  any  of  the  Booksellers  at  Phila- 
delphia. 

I  will  take  measures  to  provide  &  send  you  an  Atlas,  which 
shall  contain  all  the  good  maps  that  can  be  collected.  It  will  be 
extensive  but  that  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  find  a  place  in 
your  office. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

During  the  suspension  of  the  sittings  of  the  Commission 
under  the  7th  Article  of  the  Treaty  with  Great  Britain,  con- 
sequent upon  the  breaking  up  of  that  under  the  6th  Article, 
Mr.  Gore  took  advantage  of  the  present  cessation  of  the  labors 
of  the  former  to  make  a  visit  to  the  United  States,  and  while 
there  wrote  a  number  of  letters  to  Mr.  King,  giving  him  ac- 
counts of  the  condition  of  the  political  affairs  at  home. 
Though,  to  a  considerable  extent,  confirming  the  statements 
made  by  other  correspondents,  they  are  the  record  of  a  clear- 
headed man,  who  was  thoroughly  and  intimately  acquainted 
with  the  leading  statesmen  at  home  and  with  the  views  on 
public  affairs  held  by  Mr.  King,  in  which  he  himself  concurred. 
The  first  of  these  letters  written  soon  after  reaching  New- 
York  follows: 


C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  April  24,  1800. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Strong  and  Gerry  were  the  candidates  run  in  Massachusetts  for 
Governor  and  from  all  I  can  learn  of  the  votes  they  are  nearly 
equal,  though  the  good  men  say  they  have  reason  to  hope  the 
former  is  chosen.  Gouverneur  Morris  is  appointed  a  Senator 
from  this  State.  Your  fellow  citizens  here  are  busy  electioneer- 
ing. The  parties  are  desirous  of  securing  their  favorites,  and 
each  is  sanguine.  Hamilton  is  sure  of  success  and  I  understand 
the  other  side  is  equally  so. 


1800]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2  29 

From  what  I  can  gather  there  are  some  very  good  friends  to 
the  Government  who  wish  to  set  up  Ellsworth  and  Pinckney  as 
Candidates  for  chief  magistrate — others  are  for  the  present  occu- 
pant as  chief.  What  will  be  the  final  determination  does  not  yet 
appear  with  certainty,  tho'  it  is  probable  Adams  will  be  sup- 
ported. 

Yours  truly  &  ever, 

C.  Gore. 


Lord  Grenville  to  Mr.  King. 
{Private?) 

Cleveland  Row,  April  24th,  1800. 

My  Dear  Sir  : 

Your  report  seems  to  me  perfectly  correct.  One  question  is 
however  omitted,  the  discussion  of  which  seems  to  me  likely  to  be 
material  ;  it  is  whether  there  may  not  be  means  of  classing  the 
cases,  so  as  to  give  the  Creditors  the  benefit  not  only  of  applying 
to  the  Commissioners  for  redress  when  the  existence  of  an  im- 
pediment actually  applying  to  their  class  shall  be  ascertained  by 
trial  in  one  case,  but  also  the  benefit  of  a  speedy  and  effectual  re- 
dress from  the  courts,  when,  by  the  decision  of  one  cause,  any 
question  affecting  a  class  shall  be  decided.  If  this  is  not  done, 
Debtors,  who  profit  by  delay,  may  oblige  the  Creditors  to  try  each 
disputed  question  over  again  as  often  as  it  occurs  through  the 
whole  class  of  cases  to  which  it  applies. 

You  must  also  allow  me  to  remark,  on  the  last  point  mentioned 
in  your  letter,  that  though  I  permit  myself  to  speak  with  freedom 
to  you  of  my  personal  opinions,  I  should  be  unwilling  that  any 
expression  of  doubt,  however  slight,  on  my  part,  respecting  the 
opinions  of  those  with  whom  I  am  so  happy  as  to  act  in  public 
business,  should  get  into  an  official  correspondence. 
Believe  me  ever,  my  dear  Sir,  &c. 

Grenville* 


23O  XUFUS  KING.  [1800 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  69. 

London,  April  26,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  order  that  I  might  have  it  in  my  power  to  correct  any  mis- 
take that  I  might  have  committed,  I  sent  to  Ld.  Grenville  an 
extract  of  my  No.  67,  containing  the  report  of  what  passed  in 
our  last  Conference  ;  the  copy  of  my  note  and  of  his  answer  are 
subjoined.  On  the  supposition  that  a  new  Commission  is  ap- 
pointed, I  perceive  fewer  difficulties  in  the  arrangement  suggested 
by  his  Lordship  in  respect  to  the  Proceedings  of  the  Board  of 
Commissioners  than  with  regard  to  the  Courts. 

We  are  still  without  any  account  that  the  campaign  has  actually 
commenced  ;  the  misunderstanding  between  the  Emperor  of 
Russia  and  the  allies  seems  rather  to  increase  than  diminish. 
Count  Cobenzel,  the  Austrian  Envoy  at  St.  Petersburgh,  was 
sometime  since  ordered  not  to  appear  at  Court,  and  an  intima- 
tion was  at  the  same  time  given  to  the  Foreign  Ministers,  that  it 
was  expected  they  would  break  off  their  usual  intercourse  with 
him  ;  for  disregarding  this  extraordinary  communication,  the 
Emperor,  as  we  hear,  has  demanded  the  recall  of  the  English 
Ambassador,  Sir  Charles  Whitworth,  and  the  Envoy  Extraordi- 
nary, lately  sent  from  Vienna,  to  announce  the  marriage  of  some 
Branch  of  the  Imperial  family,  has  been  denied  an  audience,  and 
on  demanding  Passports  for  a  courier  to  inform  his  Court  of 
what  had  passed,  these  were  also  refused. 

With  Perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


J.  G.  Simcoe  to  R.  King. 

London,  May  1,  1800. 

The  Duke  of  Liancourt  Rochefoucault  in  the  recent  publication 
of  his  Travels  thro'  North  America  speaks  with  much  freedom  of 
M.  General  Simcoe  then  Lieut.  Governor  of  Upper  Canada.  It 
must  evidently  appear  to  any  person  who  shall  give  the  subject 
due  consideration  that  the  conclusions  which  the  Duke  de  Lian- 
court   draws  from  his   supposed  communications  with  the    Lt. 


l8co]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  23 1 

Governor  (while  living  in  his  family)  are  at  variance  and  incon- 
sistent with  themselves,  yet  as  a  Servant  of  his  King  &  Country, 
M.  General  Simcoe  deems  it  proper  to  say  that  the  principles 
which  governed  his  conduct  while  in  the  administration  of  the 
Government  of  Upper  Canada  were  the  reverse  of  what  is  insinu- 
ated by  the  Duke  de  Liancourt,  and  that  he  was  actuated  by  the 
most  sincere  intentions  to  preserve  Peace,  good  neighbourhood 
and  good  will  between  the  King's  subjects  and  those  of  the 
United  States  ;  and  he  has  ever  been  of  opinion,  in  express  con- 
tradiction to  Mons.  de  Liancourt,  that  the  most  strict  union 
between  the  two  Nations,  is  the  real  Interest  of  each,  &  will  make 
the  soundest  policy  &  true  wisdom  in  those  who  shall  respectively 
govern  their  councils.  M.  General  Simcoe  is  so  conscious  of 
having  personally  acted  upon  these  principles  during  his  adminis- 
tration of  that  Government  that  he  has  claimed  from  the  Duke 
of  Portland  &  Mr.  Pitt  protection  and.  consideration  as  having  been 
the  principal  means  of  preventing  hostilities  with  the  United 
States  from  the  mode  in  which  he  executed  the  military  orders  he 
received  in  Upper  Canada. 

In  testimony  of  these  premises,  M.  General  Simcoe  begs  leave 
most  respectfully  to  offer  this  representation  to  the  Honble. 
Rufus  King,  Minister  plenipotentiary  of  the  United  States  to  the 

King  of  Great  Britain. 

J.  G.  Simcoe. 

Endorsed  in  R.  King's  handwriting:  "  M.  General  Simcoe, 
I  May,  1800. — Contradiction  of  Liancourt,  &c." 

"The  General  came  to  me  on  the  8th  (May)  and  delivered  me 
this  paper  saying  he  was  not  at  liberty  to  publish  the  Orders  &c; 
that  he  had  vindicated  himself  in  his  memoirs,  wh.  he  had  ordered 
his  Executors  to  publish  after  his  death  :  but  that  he  would  tell 
me,  that  according  to  his  instructions  (wh.  he  was  now  convinced 
Lord  Dorchester  had  no  power  to  have  given)  he  ought  to  have 
attacked  Wayne,  and  thus  have  begun  a  war  with  the  U.  S.;  that 
when  he  received  his  instructions,  he  fully  believed  that  his  Govt, 
had  resolved  to  bring  on  a  war  with  the  U.  S..  a  measure  that  he 
himself  thought  highly  impolitic,  but  in  wh.  he  was  bound  to 
acquiesce." 


232  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  May  5,  1800. 

I  have  a  moment,  my  dear  friend,  to  write  to  you.  Our  friends 
here  have  been  defeated  in  the  election — and  on  the  fate  of  it 
they  fear  the  choice  of  P.  &  V.  P.  will  depend.  In  Philadelphia 
the  parties  are  extremely  divided.  The  P.  has  no  confidence, 
but  great  distrust  of  every  man,  I  believe  without  exception,  in 
whom  you  and  I  have  confided.  Pickering,  Hamilton  and  Hig- 
ginson  he  seems  to  hate  without  any  modification.  Cabot  and 
Ames  are  not  behind  in  his  estimation,  nor  does  he  seem  to  think 
much  better  of  Wolcott,  altho'  his  hatred  is  not  so  extreme  against 
them.     .     .     .     Farewell,  God  bless  you. 

Yours  sincerely, 
C.  Gore. 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

{Private?) 

Philadelphia,  May  7,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  You  will  doubtless  see  by  the  newspapers  the  issue  of 
the  elections  in  the  city  of  New  York.  Governor  Clinton,  Gen- 
eral Gates,  Brockholst  Livingston,  &c,  all  democrats  are  elected 
to  represent  the  city  and  county  of  New  York,  and  Dr.  S.  L. 
Mitchell  representative  to  Congress.  It  is  concluded  that  the  12 
electors  of  New  York  will  all  vote  for  Mr.  Jefferson,  as  president, 
and  this  will  probably  be  decisive  in  his  favour,  unless  New 
England  will  concur  in  the  federal  candidates.  Mr.  Adams  & 
General  Charles  C.  Pinckney  are  proposed.  New  England  will 
be  nearly  unanimous  for  the  former,  &  South  Carolina  and  part  of 
North  Carolina  will  vote  for  General  Pinckney  ;  hence  the  federal 
election  of  President  will  perhaps  not  be  in  jeopardy,  if  Massa- 
chusetts will  give  all  her  votes  for  General  Pinckney  as  well  as 
Mr.  Adams  :  but  there  is  the  danger  ;  that  the  miserable  policy 
of  regarding  men  not  measures  will  defeat  the  hopes  of  the  most 
enlightened  and  truly  patriotic  citizens. 

I  thank  God  that  the  folly  of  the  people  of  Massachusetts  has 
not  quite  succeeded  in  making  Gerry  their  governor  ;  you  will  be 


i8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  233 


astonished  to  find  how  closely  he  pressed  the  heels  of  Mr.  Strong. 
Gerry  had  near  17000  votes  !  you  will  perhaps  be  not  less  aston- 
ished that  while  the  election  was  pending,  the  President  said  it 
was  a  matter  of  indifference  whether  Mr.  Strong,  Mr.  Gerry  or 
Mr.  Gill  was  elected. 

The  public  offices  will  be  removed  to  the  city  of  Washington 
in  June  or  July.  No  preparations  are  made  yet  for  the  accom- 
modation of  the  President  &  his  family,  and  they  will  soon  return 
to  Congress.  Congress  is  to  rise  next  Monday,  the  12th  inst.  We 
have  heard  by  an  American  Vessel  from  Bordeaux  that  the  envoys 
arrived  there  about  the  19th  of  February  and  had  gone  to  Paris. 
It  was  said  that  this  vessel  brought  letters  from  them  ;  they  may 
be  on  their  way  from  Norfolk.  This  vessel  was  captured,  carried 
to  Bordeaux  and  what  was  American  property  released.  She  sold 
&  purchased  a  return  cargo,  and  consequently  is  seized  and  must 
be  confiscated  under  the  new  non-intercourse  law  ;  unless  Con- 
gress pass  now  a  special  act  to  prevent  it. 

Very  truly  &  respectfully  yours 

Timothy  Pickering. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  70. 

London,  8th  May,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  campaign  has  opened  on  the  side  of  Italy  on  the  6th  ulto 
by  the  attack  of  the  Austrians,  who  on  the  10th  had  succeeded  in 
dispossessing  the  French  of  several  strong  Posts,  which  they  held 
in  the  Genoese  mountains,  and  in  breaking  their  line  of  commu- 
nication between  Genoa  and  Nice.  According  to  the  last  advices 
from  that  Quarter,  the  situation  of  the  French  army  under  Massena 
was  extremely  critical ;  it  is  believed  that  the  Rhine  was  passed 
by  the  French  army,  commanded  by  Moreau,  at  several  points  on 
the  25th,  and  couriers  are  every  hour  expected  with  accounts  from 
the  Austrian  army.  As  Paris  papers  to  the  4th  inst  have  been 
received,  which  mention  the  passage  of  the  Rhine,  but  which  are 
silent  concerning  the  subsequent  engagements,  it  is  inferred  that 
the  French  have  either  been  unfortunate  or  that  no  considerable 
battle  has  been  fought. 


234  fiUFUS  KING.  [1800 

There  are  no  symptoms  of  the  return  of  the  Russians.  Sir 
Charles  Whitworth,  the  English  Embassador  at  Petersburgh,  who 
has  incurred  the  displeasure  of  the  Emperor,  is  coming  home  ;  and 
with  the  permission  to  return,  will  receive  information  that  he  has 
been  created  an  Irish  Baron,  as  a  remuneration  of  his  services. 
The  Russian  troops  employed  in  the  Dutch  expedition,  and  who 
are  at  Guernsey,  are  recalled  ;  and  will  return  home  as  soon  as 
the  Baltic  is  open,  unless  the  Emperor  consents  to  their  stay  for 
the  purpose  of  succouring  Portugal,  which  is  kept  in  a  state  of 
inquietude  by  the  menaced  attacks  of  France. 

The  British  Troops  mentioned  in  my  No.  61,  and  who  were 
destined  for  the  Mediterranean,  have  been  disembarked,  and  the 
expedition  for  whatever  object  undertaken,  seems  to  be  wholly 
laid  aside.  Other  projected  expeditions,  in  which  Russia  was  ex- 
pected to  cooperate,  will  in  like  manner  be  abandoned,  in  case  the 
expected  cooperation  continues  to  be  refused. 

Parliament  is  engaged  in  settling  the  terms  of  the  Union  with 
Ireland,  which  meet  with  no  considerable  opposition.  The  dear- 
ness  of  bread  &  meat  has  occasioned  some  popular  irregularities 
near  some  of  the  manufacturing  Towns  ;  but  by  the  prudence  of  the 
magistrates,  assisted  by  the  presence  of  the  military,  they  have 
been  quickly  and  easily  suppressed.  The  season  is  uncommonly 
fine,  and  the  apprehension  of  serious  embarrassments,  on  account 
of  the  scarcity  of  food,  is  very  much  diminished. 

Enclosed  I  send  you  a  copy  of  the  letter*  that  in  my  No.  63  I 
informed  you,  I  should  write  to  our  Envoys  in  Paris. 
With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  James  Jackson,  Governor  of  Georgia. 

London,  8  May,  1800. 
Sir: 

Immediately  after  the  receit  of  your  Excellency's  letter,  I  com- 
menced an  enquiry  for  the  Georgia  records,  which  were  removed 
to  this  country  during  the  late  war.     It  is  needless  to  repeat  the 

*  Relative  to  the  fact  that  the  underwriters  in  England  claimed  and  were  sus- 
tained by  the  Courts,  that  the  Decisions  of  the  French  Courts  in  cases  of  cap- 
tures should  be  used  in  the  settlement  of  claims  for  Insurance — these  decisions 
being  most  unjust. 


1800]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  235. 

disappointments  that  I  have  experienced  in  the  prosecution  of 
this  Enquiry.  Let  it  suffice  to  say  that  I  have  received  the  most 
ready  assistance  from  the  British  Government,  and  that  a  large 
chest  of  these  Papers  has  been  found  in  the  office  in  which  the 
Papers  of  the  late  Board  of  Trade  are  deposited.  I  went  myself 
today  to  see  it,  and  shall  immediately  renew  my  application  for 
its  delivery. 

With  this  Chest  are  two  others  supposed  to  contain  the  Records 
of  East  and  West  Florida  ;  and  as  I  have  some  reason  to  believe 
that  the  Georgia  &  Florida  Papers  have  been  mixed,  I  will  take 
measures  that  all  the  cases  shall  be  carefully  examined,  in  order 
that  such  Papers  as  belong  to  Georgia  may  be  separated  and 
restored.  I  am  not  able  to  give  you  a  more  particular  account. 
With  great  consideration  &  Respect,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  May  8,  1800. 
Mv  Lord  : 

I  was  mistaken  in  supposing  that  the  Georgia  Records  and 

Papers  which  were  conveyed  to  this  country  during  the  late  war,. 

had  been  deposited  with  the  Papers  of  the  American  Loyalists  at 

Somerset  House.     On  further  enquiry  I  find  that  they  are  in  the 

custody  of  Mr.  Chalmers,  the  keeper  of  the  Papers  of  the  late 

Board  of  Trade  ;  and  I  therefore  take  the  liberty  of  renewing  the 

request  which  I  lately  made  to  your  Lordship,  that  these  Papers 

may  be  delivered  to  me. 

With  the  most  perfect  consideration  &  Respects 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  8  May,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     I  don't  believe  that  the  wise  men  of  the  East  will  do  so* 
indiscreet  a  thing  as  to  offer  Mr.  E.,  or  any  other  in   lieu  of  Mr. 
A.,   as   the   consequence  will  be  defeat.     Pray  why  do   you  not 
think  of  Genl.  Armstrong  for  the  Senate  of  the  U.  S.     He  is  cer- 
tainly a  man  of  talents  and  in  my  Eyes  very  sound  in  his  politics.. 


236  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Besides  considering  his  connections  &  the  part  he  has  taken,  has 
he  not  claims  wh.  ought  not  to  be  neglected  ? 

I  conclude  that  Mr.  A.  will  be  supported  by  his  former  friends 
and  as  Pensylvania  will  lose  her  vote,  the  Election  will  depend  on 
N.  Jersey  &  N.  York.  .  .  .  The  envoys  continue  to  be  civilly 
treated  at  Paris  ;  I  know  nothing  more.  Hitherto  I  do  not  be- 
lieve they  have  done  anything,  but  I  do  not  from  hence  infer  their 
success  or  failure.     As  the  season  here  is  fine,  we  are  beginning 

to  hope  that  we  shall  not  be  starved. 

Yrs 

R.  K. 

P.  S.  .  .  .  My  family  is  at  a  pleasant  house  we  have  at 
about  9  miles  from  town,  and  the  preference  we  give  to  it  over 
the  town,  is  constantly  recalling  my  project  of  a  farm  &c.  I 
must  have  a  farm.  

T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  nth  May,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Tomorrow  a  long  tedious  and  unproductive  session 
will  close.  At  the  commencement  of  it,  I  formed  the  most  flatter- 
ing expectations  that  much  would  be  done  to  give  efficiency  & 
security  to  the  government.  The  general  objects  which  I  con- 
templated I  suggested  in  a  letter  which  I  wrote  to  you  just  before 
I  left  home.  None,  almost,  of  my  hopes  have  been  realized.  We 
have,  it  is  true,  enacted  a  bankrupt  law — a  measure,  in  my  belief, 
of  considerable  importance  ;  but  it  is  far  from  being  such  an  one 
as  I  wished.  The  acts  in  curing  bankruptcy  are  too  restricted, 
and  the  trial  of  the  question  Bankrupt  or  not,  by  jury,  will  be 
found  inconvenient,  embarrassing,  &  dilatory.  This  mischief 
was  occasioned  by  Virginia  Theory.  It  was  the  whim  of  General 
Marshall ;  with  him  a  sine  qua  non  of  assent  to  the  measure,  & 
without  him  the  bill  must  have  been  lost,  for  it  passed  the  House 
by  my  casting  vote.  Besides  the  bankrupt  bill,  we  have  passed 
one  more  of  great  importance.  It  makes  it  the  Duty  of  the  Secry. 
of  the  Treasury,  at  the  commencement  of  a  session,  to  report  to 
the  Legislature  on  all  the  subjects  of  revenue  &  finance.  This 
will  give  splendor  to  the  officer  and  respectability  to  the  executive 
Department  of  Govt.     Besides  these  two  laws,  all   the  rest  we 


800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  237 


have  made  are,  as  to  any  permanently  beneficial  effects,  hardly 
worth  the  parchment  on  which  they  are  written.  The  reason  of 
this  feebleness  is  a  real  feebleness  of  character  in  the  house. 
Marshall  was  looked  up  to  as  the  man  whose  great  and  command- 
ing genius  was  to  enlighten  &  direct  the  national  councils.  This 
was  the  general  sentiment,  while  some,  and  those  of  no  incon- 
siderable importance,  calculating  on  his  foolish  declaration,  rela- 
tive to  the  alien  &  sedition  laws,  thought  him  temporizing,  while 
others  deemed  him  feeble.  None  had  in  my  opinion  justly  appre- 
ciated his  character.  As  his  character  has  stamped  itself  on  the 
measures  of  the  present  session,  I  am  desirous  of  letting  you  know 
how  I  view  it.  He  is  a  man  of  a  very  affectionate  disposition,  of 
great  simplicity  of  manners  and  honest  &  honorable  in  all  his 
conduct.  He  is  attached  to  pleasures,  with  convivial  habits 
strongly  fixed.  He  is  indolent,  therefore,  and  indisposed  to  take 
part  in  the  common  business  of  the  house.  He  has  a  strong 
attachment  to  popularity  but  indisposed  to  sacrifice  to  it  his  in- 
tegrity ;  hence  it  is  that  he  is  disposed  on  all  popular  subjects  to 
feel  the  public  pulse  and  hence  results  indecision  and  an  expres- 
sion of  doubt.  Doubts  suggested  by  him  create  in  more  feeble 
minds  those  which  are  irremovable.  He  is  disposed  to  the  erotic 
refinement,  and  to  express  great  respect  for  the  sovereign  people, 
and  to  quote  their  opinions  as  an  evidence  of  truth.  The  latter 
is  of  all  things  the  most  destructive  of  personal  independence  & 
of  that  weight  of  character  which  a  great  man  ought  to  possess. 
This  gentleman,  when  aroused,  has  strong  reasoning  powers  ;. 
they  are  indeed  almost  unequalled.  But  before  they  are  excited, 
he  has  frequently,  nearly,  destroyed  any  impression  from  them. 
I  will  give  you  an  instance  which  will  render  this  observation 
perfectly  intelligible. 

Looking  forward  to  the  ensuing  election,  it  was  deemed  indis- 
pensable to  prescribe  a  mode  for  canvassing  the  votes,  provided 
there  should  be  a  dispute.  There  being  no  law  in  the  state,  the 
governor  had  declined,  and  the  jacobins  propagated  the  report, 
that  he  would  call  on  the  people,  by  proclamation,  to  choose 
electors,  &  that  he  would  return  their  votes.  A  bill  was  brought 
into  the  Senate  &  passed,  wisely  &  effectually  providing  against 
the  evil,  by  the  constitution  of  a  committee  with  ultimate  powers 
of  decision.     Mr.  Marshall  in  the  first  place  called  in  question  the 


238  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

constitutional  powers  of  the  legislature  to  delegate  such  authority 
to  a  Committee.  On  this  question  I  had  a  long  conversation  with 
him,  &  he  finally  confessed  himself  (for  there  is  not  a  more  can- 
did man  on  earth)  to  be  convinced.  He  then  resorted  to  another 
ground  of  opposition.  He  said  the  people  having  authorized  the 
members  to  decide,  personally,  all  disputes  relative  to  those  elec- 
tions, altho'  the  power  was  not  indelegable,  yet  he  thought,  in  its 
nature,  it  was  too  delicate  to  be  delegated,  untill  experience  had 
demonstrated  that  great  inconveniences  would  attend  its  exercise 
by  the  Legislature  ;  altho'  he  had  no  doubt  such  would  be  the 
result  of  the  attempt.  This  objection  is  so  attenuated  and  unsub- 
stantial as  to  be  hardly  perceivable  by  a  mind  so  merely  practical 
as  mine.  He  finally  was  convinced  that  it  was  so  and  abandoned 
it.  In  the  mean  time,  however,  he  had  dwelt  so  much,  in  con- 
versation, on  these  subjects  that  he  had  dissipated  our  majority, 
and  it  never  could  again  be  compacted.  The  consequence  was 
that  the  bill  was  lost. 

We  have  had  a  meeting  of  the  whole  federal  party,  on  the  sub- 
ject of  the  ensuing  election  &  have  agreed  that  we  will  support, 
bona  fide,  Mr.  Adams  and  General  Pinckney.  If  this  agreement 
be  faithfully  executed  we  shall  succeed,  but  otherwise  we  cannot 
escape  the  fangs  of  Jefferson.  It  is  true  that  the  late  conduct  of 
the  President  has  endeared  him  to  the  great  body  of  the  federalists, 
but  it  is  equally  true  that  it  has  created  an  entire  separation  be- 
tween him  &  those  whom  he  theretofore  deemed  his  best  friends. 
This  is  an  evil  of  a  more  alarming  nature  than  you  can  well  form 
an  idea  of. 

We  have  for  some  days  believed  that  the  Legislature  of  New 
York  would  be  decidedly  antifederal  ;  but  yesterday  I  reed, 
letters  from  General  Hamilton,  Mr.  Van  Schaak  and  a  gentleman 
in  Albany,  who  seemed  decidedly  of  opinion  that  our  fears  were 
unfounded. 

The  election  of  Governor  in  Massachussets  will  to  you,  at  a 
distance,  have  an  unpleasant  appearance  ;  but  it  is  by  no  means 
an  evidence  of  the  real  division  of  parties.  The  fact  is  that 
Gerry  was  voted  for  as  the  friend  of  Peace,  and  what  was  more 
efficacious,  as  the  friend — the  personal  &  confidential  friend — 
■•of  the  President.  In  both  respects  he  was  supported  ;  and  what 
is  conclusive  evidence  to  this  point  is,  that  the  federal  candidates 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  239 

for  the  Senate  thro'  the  State  had  more  than  four  fifths  of  the 
votes. 

Mr.  McHenry  has  resigned  his  office  of  Secy,  of  War  and  Mar- 
shall is  appointed  his  successor.  He  will  not  accept  ;  he  was  not 
consulted  previous  to  the  nomination,  nor  had  the  least  intimation 
of  the  President's  intention.     .     .     . 

Ever  sincerely  yours, 

T.  S. 

P.  S.  The  duel  between  Bayard  and  Chaplin  is  an  unpleasant 
event.  The  cause  was  unworthy.  A  prosecution  is  set  on  foot. 
They  have  fled,  except  poor  Chaplin  who  I  fear  is  unable  to 
get  off. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

J.  Hale  to  King — Adams  must  be  the  Candidate  for  President — New  York 
against  Jefferson — Strong  elected  Governor  over  Gerry — Gore  to  King — 
Conversation  with  Liston  about  6th  Article — Bayard  Died — King  to  Secre- 
tary of  State — Attempted  Assassination  of  the  King — Moreau  defeats  the 
Austrians  on  the  Rhine — Misunderstanding  between  Russia  and  the  Allies 
increasing — Sweden  and  Russia  offended  by  England's  Capturing  merchant 
Ships  under  Convoy — Project  of  uniting  the  Northern  Powers  against 
France  at  an  End — King  rejoices  at  its  Failure — King  to  Secretary  of 
State — Eaton  wishes  him  to  buy  the  Presents  for  the  Bey  of  Tunis 
promised  to  him  when  Treaty  of  Peace  was  made — Has  no  authority, 
though  he  gets  an  Estimate  of  Cost — Pickering  to  King — His  Removal 
from  Office — Coalition  between  Adams  and  Jefferson — Marshall  appointed 
Secretary  of  State — Gore  to  King — Pickering  Removed — Pinckney  and 
Adams  for  President  and  Vice-President — Cabot  to  King — Pickering's  Re- 
moval— Coalition  of  Adams  and  Jefferson — England  will  find  Pretence  to 
war  on  Commerce  of  United  States  and  France — King  to  Secretary  of 
State — N.  Webster's  History  of  Pestilential  Diseases — G.  Morris  to  King 
— Their  Friends  are  in  sad  Anarchy — A  direct  Tax  always  Unpopular — 
King  to  Secretary  of  State — The  Lord  Chancellor  thinks  a  gross  sum  the 
best  way  of  Settling  the  Differences  under  the  6th  Article — Campaign  in 
Northern  Italy. 

Joseph  Hale  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  May  13,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  duly  honored  with  your  favor  by  Mr.  Gore.  Good  men 
throughout  the  United  States  concur  with  you  in  the  necessity  & 
policy  of  a  united  effort  to  reelect  Mr.  Adams.  We  were  yester- 
day told  that  the  members  of  Congress,  that  is  those  worthy  of  a 
post  there,  had  unanimously  agreed  to  support  Mr.  A.  for  Pres.  & 
Genl.  Pinckney  for  Vice  Prest.  Notwithstanding  the  untoward 
aspect  of  the  late  election  in  New  York,  influenced  probably,  by 
the  unconciliating  conduct  of  Capt.  Bellew  of  the  Cleopatra,  it  is 
hoped  that  the  above  gentlemen  will  be  chosen. 

You  will  be  rejoiced  to  learn  that  Mr.  Strong  is  elected  Gov- 

240 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  24 1 

ernor  of  Massachusetts.  The  rival  candidate  Mr.  Gerry  was 
highly  supported.  Mr.  S.  has  not  a  majority  of  more  than  two 
hundred  out  of  near  forty  thousand  votes  returned  ;  and  there 
was  but  about  two  thousand  scattering  votes.  In  some  of  the 
neighbouring  Jacobin  towns,  their  representation  has  been  en- 
creased  this  year.  This  notwithstanding,  we  shall  have  a  majority 
of  good  men  in  the  house  ;  altho'  the  result  of  to-day  may  exclude 
Mr.  Lowell  &  myself  from  the  house  and  introduce  Eustis  & 
Tudor.  There  will  be  a  handsome  majority  of  good  men  in  our 
Senate,  altho'  Norfolk  has  chosen  Hitchbon,  Aspinwall  &  one 
Ellis.  The  bill  relative  to  federal  elections  has  passed  the  lower 
house  of  Congress,  tho'  differently  modified  than  in  its  first 
draught.     Congress  were  to  have  risen  yesterday. 

The  fate  of  the  army  of  Egypt,  so  correspondent  to  the  inter- 
cepted letters,  would  overset  Bonaparte,  were  he  less  firmly 
fixed.  The  public  mind  with  us  is  upon  the  tip  toe  for  informa- 
tion from  the  Austrian  &  French  armies.  The  event  of  the 
present  campaign  is  difficult  to  conjecture  since  the  return  of  the 
Russians.  We  do  not  wish  France  to  prevail,  neither  are  we  satis- 
fied that  the  conduct  of  another  government  towards  us  should 
promote  the  cause  of  France  in  our  country.  The  administration 
of  Great  Britain  must  derive  their  information  regarding  our 
Country  from  very  impure  and  incorrect  sources,  or  their  policy 
would  be  materially  different.  The  solid  interests  of  both 
countries  are  reconcileable,  or  incompatible  with  each  other  ;  if 
the  former,  why  treat  us  as  she  appears  disposed  to  ?  if  the  latter, 
the  sooner  we  prepare  for  a  serious  contest,  the  better.  While  we 
deprecate  the  latter,  we  will  not  shrink,  if  called  upon  to  meet  it. 

2,  o'clock  p.m.  The  poll  is  now  closed  &  the  last  year's  list 
prevailed  by  a  great  majority.     .     .     . 

Your  most  obedt.  servt. 

Joseph  Hale. 

I  have  broken  the  seal  of  this  to  say  that  this  day's  post  brings 
intelligence  from  Albany,  that  the  New  York  City  election  gave 
such  alarm  throughout  the  State,  as  to  produce  exertions  in  favour 
of  true  policy.  The  result  is  that  New  York  will  have  a  decided 
majority  in  their  House  of  Representatives  against  Jefferson. 

Yours  as  above 

J.  Hale. 

VOL.  Ill— 16 


242  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  May  14,  1800. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

When  in  Philadelphia  I  had  several  conversations  with  Mr. 
Liston  on  the  subject  of  the  Commission  under  the  6th  Article. 
His  private  letter  from  Lord  Grenville  expressed  great  fear  that 
unless  your  instructions  authorized  the  relinquishment  of  many 
points  in  the  precis  given  in  by  you  that  a  harmonious  result 
could  not  be  expected  to  the  negotiation.  He  appears  satisfied 
with  our  construction  of  the  Article  which  would  exclude  from  its 
benefits  those  who  were  with  us  after  the  dec'on  of  Independence 
and  then  went  to  the  British  and  also  with  that  which  would 
oblige  the  claimant  to  prosecute,  under  certain  modifications,  his 
debtor  in  the  courts  previous  to  his  coming  before  the  Board. 
On  these  &  several  other  points  he  declared  himself  to  be  of 
opinion  that  the  G.  B.  should  not  contend  with  us,  that  our  con- 
struction was  right  and  that  he  would  communicate  his  senti- 
ments to  Lord  Grenville.  McDonald  and  Guillemarde  return  to 
England  in  the  Lady  Arabella.  On  the  latter  requesting  permis- 
sion from  our  Government  it  was  given  and  Col.  Pickering  in- 
formed him  that  the  President  had  thought  proper  to  make  it  a 
condition  in  the  negotiation  that  was  pending  that  the  Board 
should  be  composed  of  new  members. 

The  federal  party  have  agreed  to  set  up  Adams  &  Genl  Pinck- 
ney.  It  is  possible  they  may  be  so  alarmed  at  the  elections  in 
the  City  of  New  York  as  to  be  true  to  the  agreemt  ;  but  I  much 
doubt  it.  Strong  is  our  Governor  by  a  small  majority  only  ; 
Hitchbon  is  a  Senator  and  Morton  a  Rep.  from  Dorchester.  The 
election  for  Reps,  for  this  town  was  made  yesterday  and 
the  fed.  ticket  carried  2  to  1.  Of  course  we  are  up  again  for 
a  moment. 

A  duel  has  been  fought  in  Philadelphia  by  Champlin  of  R. 
Island  and  Bayard  of  Delaware  &  both  wounded  ;  it  was  the  con- 
sequence of  some  hasty  remark  by  one  or  the  other  in  a  debate 
on  the  floor  of  the  House.  There  was  a  report  that  Hamilton 
and  Brockholst  Livingston  had  fought  in  N.  York  ;  but  it  was  not 
true.  Mc.  Henry  has  resigned  as  Secretary.  The  P.  immediately 
named  Genl  Marshall  to  succeed  him,  &  it  is  said  the  Genl.  as 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  243 

immedi'ely  declined.  I  do  not  learn  who  is  to  fill  the  place. 
Genl.  Lee  they  suppose  would  be  gratified  by  the  appointment. 
My  affectionate  regards  to  Mrs.  King  and  the  boys. 

Yours  truly 

C.  Gore. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  71.* 

London,  May  22,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  King's  Life  was  twice  in  danger  on  the  15th  ;  in  the  morn- 
ing at  a  review  of  a  battalion  of  the  Guards,  when  a  gentleman  a 
few  yards  distant  from  him  was  wounded  by  a  ball  from  one  of 
the  soldier's  pieces.  Similar  occurrences  having  before  hap- 
pened, this  was  considered  as  purely  accidental,  and  doubtless 
proceeded  from  the  carelessness  of  the  Ordnance  Department 
in  having  issued  Ball  Cartridges  among  those  containing  only 
powder. 

In  the  evening  an  assassin  who  had  placed  himself  near  the 

*  See  answer  of  the  President  in  note. 

J.  Adams  to  J.  Marshall,  Secretary  of  State. 

Quincy,  2d  Aug.,  1800. 

Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Mr.  King's  despatches,  Nos.  71.  and  72.  f  I  have  read  and  if  you 
think  proper,  you  may  authorize  Mr.  King,  if  he  thinks  it  proper,  to  communi- 
cate to  the  Court,  in  any  manner  he  thinks  most  decent,  the  congratulations  of 
his  government,  and,  if  he  pleases,  of  the  President,  on  the  King's  fortunate 
escape  from  assassination.  .  .  .  The  jewels  for  Tunis  are  a  more  serious 
subject.  When  I  read  over  all  the  despatches  from  the  Barbary  States,  I  re- 
member your  predecessor  consulted  me  concerning  these  jewels.  His  opinion 
was,  that  it  was  best  to  make  the  present,  rather  than  to  hazard  a  rupture. 
After  the  expenditure  of  such  great  sums,  I  thought  with  him  that  it  would  be 
imprudent  to  hazard  an  interruption  of  the  peace  on  account  of  these  jewels, 
and  I  presume  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Eaton  or  Mr.  Smith  accordingly.  I  am  still 
of  the  same  opinion. 

I  see  no  objection  against  requesting  Mr.  Smith,  and  all  the  consuls  in  the 
Barbary  States,  to  keep  Mr.  King  informed  of  the  general  state  of  affairs.  It 
will  be  of  service  to  the  public  that  our  minister  at  London  should  know  as 
much  information  as  possible  concerning  our  affairs  in  those  countries. 

f  May  22  and  25,  1800,  pages  243  and  246. 


244  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

centre  of  the  front  row  of  seats  in  the  pit  of  Drury  Lane  Theatre^ 
fired  a  pistol  at  the  King  the  moment  he  entered  his  Box  ;  the 
two  slugs  with  which  it  was  charged  lodged  in  the  cornice  of  the 
Box  about  twenty  inches  above  the  King's  head.  The  King 
asked  Lords  Salisbury  and  Chesterfield,  who  attended  him,  if  it 
was  a  Pistol  ?  and  being  answered  in  the  affirmative,  with  cool- 
ness and  decision  ordered  them  to  stop,  and,  adding  there  may 
be  another,  put  his  hand  upon  his  breast,  advanced  to  the  front 
of  the  Box,  &  saluted  the  audience. 

The  assassin,  a  disbanded  soldier,  who  was  severely  wounded 
under  the  Duke  of  York  in  Flanders,  and  is  reported  to  be  sub- 
ject to  fits  of  insanity  in  consequence  of  his  wounds,  was  imme- 
diately seized  ;  after  which  the  play  began,  and  the  King  with 
the  Queen  &  two  of  the  Princesses  who  were  behind  the  King, 
but  had  not  entered  the  Box  when  the  Pistol  was  fired,  remained 
as  usual  until  the  entertainment  was  entirely  finished.  The 
assassin  will  be  tried  by  a  special  Commission.  There  are  many 
idle  rumors  of  plots  &  conspiracies  against  the  King's  life  ;  but 
they  are  not  worthy  of  the  smallest  credit ;  and  it  does  not  appear 
that  the  Person  who  made  the  attempt  at  the  Theatre  has  any 
confederate.  The  two  houses  of  Parliament,  the  City  of  London 
&  other  Corporations  have  presented  congratulatory  addresses, 
to  the  King  on  this  occasion  and  the  example  will  run  thro'  the 
Kingdom. 

The  Austrian  Army  upon  the  Rhine,  has  suffered  great  losses, 
both  in  killed  and  Prisoners  in  the  several  battles  fought  between 
the  first  and  twelfth  of  this  month.  The  success  of  General  Melas 
in  Italy,  and  the  expectation  that  the  French  army  would  be  so 
completely  destroyed  in  that  quarter,  that  General  Melas  would 
be  able  to  enter  the  south  of  France,  induced  General  Kray  to 
believe  that  the  French  army  of  the  Rhine  would  not  attempt  to 
march  into  Suabia  ;  and  in  this  persuasion,  according  to  a  plan 
previously  concerted,  General  Kray  advanced  his  magazines,  and 
put  his  army  in  a  situation  not  to  defend,  but  to  pass  the  Rhine, 
the  moment  he  received  information  that  General  Melas  had  en- 
tered France.  In  this  position  of  the  Austrian  army,  General 
Moreau  crossed  the  Rhine  in  great  force,  fell  upon  the  Austrian 
Posts,  and  pursued  his  attack  with  such  vigour  as  left  General 
Kray  no  time  to  collect  and  concentrate  his  forces  to  oppose 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  245 

him.  The  consequence  has  been  that  the  Austrians  have  been 
obliged  to  retreat,  after  fighting  several  obstinate  and  unequal 
battles,  which  they  could  not  decline  without  exposing  their  sep- 
arated columns  to  be  cut  off  by  the  rapid  advance  of  the  French  ; 
further  accounts  are  anxiously  expected,  as  well  from  the 
Danube  as  from  Italy,  whither  Buonaparte  is  hastening  with  the 
army  of  rescue  to  relieve  Massena  who  is  shut  up  in  the  city  of 
Genoa. 

There  seems  to  be  no  probability  of  a  reconciliation  between 
Russia  and  the  allies  ;  on  the  contrary,  the  misunderstanding  be- 
tween England  and  Russia  is  increasing.  Since  the  recall  of  Sir 
Charles  Whitworth,  the  Emperor  has  recalled  Count  Woronzow, 
his  Envoy  at  this  Court  ;  and  we  hear  that  Sir  Horace  Popham, 
an  English  naval  officer,  sent  to  Petersburgh  to  superintend  the 
embarkation  of  the  Russian  Troops  that  were  to  cooperate  with 
the  English  in  expeditions  against  France,  is  coming  back  ;  and 
that  the  Russian  Troops  employed  in  the  Dutch  expedition,  and 
who  have  wintered  at  Guernsey,  are  going  home.  Much  coolness 
still  subsists  between  Sweden  &  England  on  account  of  the  Fleet 
of  merchant  men  under  convoy  of  a  Swedish  Frigate,  taken  by 
the  English  in  1798.  The  British  minister  is  on  his  return  from 
Stockholm,  the  Swedish  Envoy  having  left  London  several  months 
ago.  As  Russia  interposed  her  good  offices  with  the  British 
Cabinet  in  support  of  the  complaints  of  Sweden  concerning  the 
capture  of  her  Merchant  Ships,  while  under  a  national  convoy, 
and  is  moreover  understood  to  be  ultimately  connected  at  present 
with  Sweden,  the  disagreement  between  England  and  these  two 
Powers  may  be  expected  to  increase,  rather  than  to  diminish  ; 
and  the  project  of  uniting  the  north  of  Europe  in  the  conference 
against  France  must  now  be  relinquished.  A  less  rigorous  and 
more  liberal  interpretation  of  the  Law  of  Nations  concerning 
Merchant  Ships,  under  National  convoy,  on  the  part  of  England, 
with  more  steadiness  and  less  caprice  on  the  part  of  Russia,  would 
in  all  probability  have  overcome  the  obstacles  to  this  important 
measure  which  a  few  months  ago  was  all  but  completed.  *  When 
J  recollect,  and  I  think  I  ca?i  never  forget,  the  sentiments  and  lan- 
guage of  the  British  Minister  concerning  the  United  States  at  the 
time  he  entertained  the  fullest  confidence  of  success  in  this  scheme,  I 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


246  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

cannot  help  rejoicing   in   its  failure   nor  hoping   it  may  never  be 
accomplished. 

Sir  Hyde  Parker  is  recalled  :  Sir  Hugh  Seymour  succeeds  him 
on  the  Jamaica  Station.  I  hope  the  change  will  produce  a  more 
favorable  and  just  treatment  of  our  Flag  in  those  seas.  Sir  Wil- 
liam Parker,  who  is  well  spoken  of,  replaces  Admiral  Vandeput 
on  the  Halifax  Station. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.   72. 

London,  May  25,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  yesterday  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  Smith  at  Lisbon,  includ- 
ing a  letter  and  several  Papers,  dated  in  October  last,  from  Mr. 
Eaton  our  Consul  at  Tunis.  According  to  Mr.  Eaton's  representa- 
tion the  Peace  which  he  states  to  have  been  concluded  with  the  Bey 
of  Tunis,  is  in  danger  of  being  broken  by  the  delay  that  has  arisen 
in  the  delivery  of  the  stipulated  supply  of  military  and  naval  stores, 
and  for  want  of  what  is  called  the  customary  present  of  Jewels, 
which,  it  is  alleged,  the  Persons  who  negotiated  the  Treaty  sanc- 
tioned the  Bey's  expectation  of  receiving.  The  object  of  Mr. 
Eaton's  letter  to  me,  is  to  engage  me  to  purchase  and  send  to 
Tunis  the  Jewels  and  other  articles,  a  list  of  which  he  has  in- 
closed, estimated  by  the  Bey  to  be  worth  forty  thousand  dollars, 
but  which  Mr.  Eaton  supposed  may  be  purchased  in  England  for 
half  that  sum.  The  military  stores  which  Mr.  Eaton  thought  of 
entering  into  a  contract  with  certain  English  traders  at  Tunis  to 
supply,  giving  them  bills  on  me,  have,  according  to  Mr.  Smith's  in- 
formation, been  sent  from  the  U.  S.  Mr.  Smith,  who  I  presume 
is  acquainted  with  the  state  of  our  Barbary  Affairs,  gives  no  ex- 
plicit opinion  concerning  the  purchase  of  these  Jewels,  tho'  I  con- 
ceive from  the  tenor  of  his  letter  that  he  is  on  the  whole  rather 
disposed  to  acquiesce  in  the  demand  :  but,  as  I  am  entirely  without 
information  or  authority  on  this  subject,  and  have  no  knowledge 
whatever  respecting  the  intentions  and  measures  of  the  Govern- 
ment, I  shall  not  without  a  direct  and  explicit  request  from  Mr. 
Smith  comply  with  Mr.  Eaton's  demands.  I  will  however  immedi- 


1800]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  247 

ately  apply  to  Mr.  Boulton  at  Birmingham,  who  is  able  to  manu- 
facture and  prepare,  on  lower  terms  than  any  other,  the  articles 
enumerated  in  the  list  of  Jewels,  for  an  estimate  of  the  price  at 
which  he  will  engage  to  supply  them  ;  this  estimate  I  will  send  to 
Mr.  Smith,  with  an  answer  corresponding  with  the  tenor  of  this 
letter.  I  submit  to  your  consideration  whether  it  will  not  be  expe- 
dient, by  some  means  or  other,  that  I  should  be  made  acquainted 
with  the  situation  of  our  Barbary  connections,  if  there  is  any  prob- 
ability that  I  am  from  time  to  time  to  be  called  upon  to  exercise 
a  discretion  concerning  them.  Should  Mr.  Smith,  before  I  can 
receive  your  answer  to  this  letter,  ask  my  assistance  in  the  execu- 
tion of  his  Orders,  I  shall  give  it  in  the  best  way  in  my  power, 
but  uninformed  as  I  am,  I  shall  do  nothing  of  my  own  discretion, 
nor  shall  I  hereafter  be  inclined  to  interfere  on  any  occasion,  un- 
less I  hear  from  you,  that  such  interference  may,  in  the  Presi- 
dent's opinion,  be  necessary  ;  in  this  case,  I  must  repeat  the 
observation,  it  will  be  proper  that  I  should  be  kept  fully  ac- 
quainted with  the  situation  of  our  Barbary  Affairs. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Note  of  Articles  expected  as  a  Present  from  the  United  States 
of  America  to  the  Bey  of  Tunis,  on  the  ratification  of  Peace  be- 
tween the  two  Powers. 
For  the  Bey  : 

1  Fusee,  6  feet  long,  mounted  with  gold,  set  with  diamonds. 

4  with  gold  mounting,  ordinary  length. 

1  pr.  of  Pistols  mounted  with  gold,  set  with  diamonds. 

4  "     "  mounted  with  gold. 

1  poniard,  enamelled,  set  with  diamonds. 

1  diamond  Ring. 

1  Gold  repeating  watch,  with  diamonds,  chain  the  same. 

1  Gold  snuff-box,  set  with  diamonds. 

6  pieces  brocade  of  gold. 

30     "       superfine  cloth  of  different  colours. 

6       "       Satin,  different  colours. 
The  Bey's  son  : 

1  gold  mounted  fusee. 

1    do    pr.  pistols. 

1    do    watch  with  diamonds. 


248  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  May  28,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

For  some  account  of  the  changes  the  President  has  made  in  the 
public  departments,  allow  me  to  refer  you  to  my  Son,  to  whom  I 
have  written  at  large,  and  yet  but  a  little  of  what  the  occasion 
suggested,  of  facts  and  observations,  all  of  the  like  tendency,  and 
which  would  demonstrate  the  President's  unbounded   vanity,  am- 
bition,   selfishness,    revenge   and   a   heart   cankered  with    envy. 
There  were  several  worthy  candidates  for  the  place  of  Commis- 
sioner of  the  Stamp  Office.     They  called  on  me  with  their  appli- 
cations as  usual.     At  length  I  found  that   Mr.  Joshua  Johnson 
was  a  candidate.     I  then   told  gentlemen  (my   friends)  that  he 
would  be  appointed,  "  for  the  President's  son  had  married  his 
daughter."     Mr.  Wolcott,  prior    to  the  nomination,  called  and 
asked  me  if  I  knew  anything  about  him.     I  remembered  your 
letter   of   1797   (private)   in  which  you    mentioned   the  current 
report,   that    Mr.    Johnson    had    quitted    London  dishonorably 
leaving  creditors  in  the  lurch.     This  fact  was  well  known  other- 
wise to  many  of  our  merchants.    The  Senate  were  equally  divided  ; 
Mr.  Jefferson  gave  the  casting  vote  for  Mr.  Johnson,  "  from  the 
respect  he  had  for  the  President's  discernment,"  for  he  assigned 
his  reasons  for  his  casting  vote.     With  this  demur  about  brother- 
in-law  Johnson,  the  President  also  upbraided  Mr.  Goodhue.    Who 
but  Mr.  A.  would  scold  and  reproach  Senators  for  exercising  their 
constitutional  right  &  duty  respecting  presidential  nominations  ? 
Beyond  a  doubt  there  is  a  coalition  between  Mr.  A.  &  Mr.  J.,* 
but  I  have  not  time  to  note  the  combined  facts  &  circumstances 
which  prove  it.     Mr.  J.  never  before  stayed  to  the  close  of  a  ses- 
sion.    The  Aurora  announced   the   arrangement  before  it   took 
place.     At  Dallas'  table  it  was  openly  mentioned  several  days  be- 
fore, that  I  was  to  resign  and  Mr.  Marshall  to  be  appointed  Sec- 
retary of  State.     He  had  refused  the  war  office  to  which  he  was 
named  without  notice,  and  left  town  for  Virginia.     On  Monday, 
the  12th,  he  was  named  Secretary  of   State   and   Dexter  Secy,  of 
War.     It  is  not  known  whether  either  will  accept  ;  if  General 

*  Gunn,  says  Dawson  (member  from  Virginia  &  devoted  to  Jefferson)  told 
him  there  was  a  coalition.     Another  Virginian  said  the  same  to  Dayton. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  249 


Marshall  declines,  Dexter  will  doubtless  be  appointed  to  the  Office 
of  State,  and  I  think  it  not  improbable  that  he  will  accept  it. 
Wolcott's  place  cannot  be  filled  ;  it  would  be  too  hazardous  to 
remove  him.  The  President  desired  him  to  remain  in  office  to 
the  4th  of  March  next. 

May  28,   10   o'clock  a.  m.    It  is  said  that   General  Marshall 
accepts  the  office  of  State. 

Very  truly  yours, 

Timothy  Pickering. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

May  29,  1800. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Gore  will  return  in  the  Galen  &  will  give  you  the  most 
ample  details  of  our  internal  politicks.  You  will  previously  have 
seen  with  regret  the  expulsion  of  Col.  Pickering  from  an  office 
which  he  filled  with  ability,  integrity  &  honor,  but  you  are  so  well 
acquainted  with  the  sort  of  sensibility  for  which  our  chief  is  re- 
markable, that  you  will  be  less  surprised  than  most  men.  It  is 
believed  that  there  is  a  good  understanding  between  Jefferson  & 
Mr.  Adams,  &  that  they  will  make  a.  joint-stock  of  their  influence 
in  the  next  election,  which  will  probably  issue  in  the  elevation  of 
the  former  to  the  President's  chair,  and  depressing  the  latter  to 
the  Vice  Presidency.  If  however  Massachussets  cou'd  be  induced 
to  act  with  a  just  regard  to  the  support  of  the  National  Govt,  and 
not  be  biased  by  a  predilection  for  persons,  we  shou'd  see 
General  Pinckney  President.  You  see  we  are  about  to  act  over 
the  fooleries  which  are  incidental  to  Democracies  &  which  at 
last  change  them.  I  cou'd  write  you  a  few  pages  which  might  be 
interesting,  but  you  wou'd  still  demand  more,  and  Mr.  Gore  will 
satisfy  you,  for  tho'  he  professes  to  avoid  our  domestic  politicks, 
he  undoubtedly  must  know  all  that  can  now  be  known. 

Presuming  that  we  have  swallowed  the  bait  we  shall  find  our- 
selves hooked  by  France.  I  am  apprehensive  that  England  will 
find  pretences  for  warring  upon  the  commerce  which  shall  be 
attempted  to  be  carried  on  with  France.  Shou'd  this  be  the  case 
I  hope  they  will  publish  to  the  world  the  principles,  on  which 
they  mean  to  act,  &  if  they  are  new,  or  uncommon,  let  them 
allege  openly  the  justification  of  them  in  the  nature  and  extent  of 


250  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

the  danger  which  equally  threatens  all  nations,  whose  battles  they 
really  fight,  and  have  already  fought  with  success.  Perhaps  they 
may  add  that  in  the  present  contest  a  Neutral  associating  with 
their  Enemy  may  almost  as  well  become  an  open  enemy. 

God  bless  you  &  yours 
G.  C. 

C.  Gore  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  May  31,  1800. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

The  P.  has  removed  Col.  Pickering  which,  so  far  as  I  can  judge, 
produces  general  discontent.  Genl.  Marshall,  who  was  named  in 
his  stead,  it  is  believed,  will  decline  ;  Dexter  thinks  he  will  not. 
It  is  conjectured  that  should  M.  decline,  D.  will  be  appointed  to 
the  office  of  State.  He  says  he  shall  not  &  cannot  take  the  place 
as  its  duties  are  more  than  he  can  perform.  Notwithstanding  I 
believe  the  place  will  be  offered  him  and  he  will  undertake  the 
business.  Some  suppose  Mr.  Wolcott  will  leave  the  Treasury 
and  it  will  be  difficult  to  find  a  successor.  The  P.  has  gone  to 
Washington  and  will  not  return  here  before  my  departure.  Fries 
and  the  other  convicts  are  pardoned.  The  intention  of  the  fed- 
eralists is  to  run  Genl.  Pinckney  &  Mr.  Adams  as  Pres.  and 
Vice  President.  It  is  confidently  believed  that  Mr.  A.  will  have 
a  unanimous  vote  in  Massachusetts.  This  may  probably  be  relied 
on,  if  the  electors  are  chosen  by  the  Legislature  ;  but  I  think  very 
doubtful,  if  they  are  appointed  by  the  people.  Middlesex  would 
choose  such  an  elector  as  might  vote  for  Mr.  Jefferson,  and  it  is 
quite  uncertain  what  would  be  the  course  of  some  others.  This 
State  is  doubtless  strong  &  strictly  federal  with  very  few  excep- 
tions.    .     .     . 

A  Treaty  with  France  is  calculated  on  and  it  is  presumed  the 
P.  will  call  the  Senate  to  consider  its  merits  about  October,  af- 
fording this  body  time  to  finish  Treaty  business  before  Congress 
meets.  We  hope  your  explanatory  article  will  be  here  in  season 
for  that  meeting  .  .  .  Monday  evening  2  June.  I  have  this 
afternoon  seen  Mrs.  Adams.     She  says  Marshall  accepts  the  office 

of  Secretary  of  State.     .     .     . 

Yours  ever, 

C.  Gore. 


1800]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  25  L 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  73. 

London,  June  2,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  No.  —  inclosing  a  Bill  of  Exchange  for 
£95.  Sterling  drawn  upon  me  by  Mr.  N.  Webster  ;  in  his  letter 
of  advice,  Mr.  Webster  informs  me  that  the  Draft  is  on  account 
of  100  Guineas  that  Mess.  Robinsons,  Booksellers  in  Pater  Noster 
Row,  agreed  to  pay  him  for  the  copy  of  his  History  of  Pestilential 
Diseases.  I  have  given  them  notice  of  this  Draft,  but  have  not 
received  information  whether  they  will  make  provision  for  its 
payment.  Through  Dr.  Lettsome  I  hear  they  are  dissatisfied 
with  the  publication  of  the  same  work  in  America,  where,  as  they 
allege,  they  expected  to  sell  a  considerable  portion  of  the  edition 
printed  here.  I  do  not  accept  this  Draft,  nor  shall  I  pay  it,  un- 
less Mess.  Robinson  supply  the  money,  which  I  am  in  hope  they 
will  do. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


GOUVERNEUR    MORRIS    TO    R.    KlNG. 

Morrisania,  June  4,  1800. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  pray  you  will  be  so  good  as  to  forward  the  enclosed  letter  to 
the  Duke  of  Orleans.  You  have  doubtless  heard  that  our  Legis- 
lature is  Antifederal  &  that  our  present  system  is  somewhat  wild. 
Mr.  Adams  is  known  to  you  and  of  course  certain  things  have 
excited  less  surprise  than  they  would  have  done  had  they  been 
performed  by  a  Man  of  steadier  Conduct.  Living  as  I  do  in  the 
country,  and  thinking  as  little  of  Politics  as  I  can,  it  is  not  in  my 
Power  to  tell  you  what  Plans  are  in  Agitation,  much  less  what 
Events  will  take  Place,  but  nil  desperandum  de  Republica  is  a 
sound  Principle.  Let  the  Chair  of  office  be  filled  by  whomsoever 
it  may,  Opposition  will  act  as  an  outward  Conscience,  &  prevent 
the  Abuse  of  Power.  As  to  the  discarding  of  it,  we  may  fairly- 
trust  the  Ambition  which  seeks  Office  for  holding  the  Power 
which  it  confers.     In  the  mean  time  all  our  Friends  here  are  in 


252  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

sad  Anarchy.  Truth  is  that  a  direct  Tax,  unpopular  everywhere, 
is  really  unwise  in  America,  because  Property  here  is  not  produc- 
tive. Of  course  the  Democrats  and  their  Demagogues  have  had 
just  cause  to  complain  of  the  manner  in  which  money  is  raised 
and  our  Expenditure  is  so  far  from  economical,  that  no  applause  is 
to  be  expected  on  that  Score.  But  the  thing  which  in  my  Opinion 
has  done  most  mischief  to  the  federal  Party  is  the  Ground  given 
by  some  of  them  to  believe  that  they  wish  to  establish  a  monarchy. 

Adieu 

I  am  truly  yours 

G.  M. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State,  &c,  &c. 

No.  74. 

London,  June  6,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  was  mistaken  in  supposing  the  Jewels  enumerated  in  Mr. 
Eaton's  note  could  be  obtained  at  Birmingham.  Mr.  Boulton 
informs  me  that  these  articles  are  not  made  there  and  I  have 
taken  measures  to  ascertain  their  cost,  should  we  be  obliged  to 
purchase  them  in  London.  In  conversation  with  the  *  Lord  Chan- 
cellor a  few  days  ago,  he  remarked  speaking  of  the  6lh  Article  of 
the  Treaty,  that  the  best  7na?iner  of  settling  the  late  difference  and 
avoiding  future  disagreements  would  be  the  paying  of  a  gross  sum  j 
and  that  he  never  knew  any  a?-bitration,  which  did  not  come  to 
something  of  this  sort.  The  Russian  Envoy  returns  to  the  Con- 
tinent, the  Secretary  of  Legation  has  been  named  Charge  des 
Affaires  ;  the  same  thing  has  taken  place  at  Vienna,  and  the  Eng- 
lish &  Austrian  Envoys  have  at  length  obtained  Passports  to 
leave  Petersburg,  which  were  for  a  time  refused.  The  latest  in- 
telligence from  Italy  or  rather  from  the  territories  of  Genoa,  is  of 
the  14th  ulto.  Massena  still  defended  himself  and  Melas  leaving 
General  Ott  to  carry  on  the  siege  of  Genoa,  after  driving  Suchet 
into  the  Department  of  the  War,  marched  from  Nice  on  the  14th 
against  Berthier,  who  had  arrived  by  the  route  St.  Bernard  at 
Aosta  and  was  advancing  towards  Turin.     General  Melas  ex- 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  253 

pected  to  encounter  Berthier,  whose  division  is  supposed  to  be 
without  cavalry,  and  artillery,  before  its  junction  with  the  divi- 
sion that  marched  by  St.  Gothard.  The  issue  of  the  campaign 
may  depend  upon  the  success  of  this  Enterprize.  We  have  no 
account  of  any  affair  of  any  importance  in  Swabia,  since 
Kray  has  concentred  his  army  upon  the  Danube  ;  but  the  two 
armies  were  in  presence  of  each  other,  and  a  general  action  was 
expected. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

King'to  B.  West — Monument  to  Washington — Bushrod  Washington  to  King 
— Proposes  to  publish  Life  of  Washington — King  to  Secretary  of  State — 
Jewels  for  the  Bey  of  Tunis — To  N.  Webster — Robinson  ;  Objections  to 
Publishing  his  Work — Jay  to  King — Impatient  to  learn  about  the  Cam- 
paign in  Europe — Affairs  in  United  States  not  Free  from  Agitation — 
Federalists  not  Active  or  United — Their  Opponents  diligent,  united — 
Troup  to  King — Dr.  Romayne's  Plans — Separation,  Bitterness,  and  Hos- 
tility Among  the  Federalists — Especially  against  those  of  New  England — 
Cannot  say  who  will  be  the  Candidate  for  Governor — King  to  General 
Chalmers  and  the  Governor  of  Georgia — Trunk  Containing  the  Georgia 
Papers — McHenry  to  Pickering — Liston's  Letter  to  Buchanan — Pickering 
to  King — Liston's  Letter — Explanation  by  Liston — Not  Serious — Adams 
says  there  is  no  Coalition  with  Jefferson — Never  said  there  was  a  British 
Faction  in  the  Senate — Violent  Feelings  against  Hamilton — Goodhue  to 
Pickering  on  this  Subject — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Disasters  to 
Austrian  Army — Probable  Treaty  of  Peace  between  Austria  and  France — 
Dissatisfaction  between  Northern  Powers  and  England — Influence  of 
England  on  the  Continent  less  than  at  any  Period  of  the  War. 

R.  King  to  Benjamin  West,  Esq. 

Mill  Hill,  June  9,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  sorry  that  I  happened  to  be  out  when  you  did  me  the 
honor  to  call  in  Great  Cumberland  Place  a  few  days  ago.  I  have 
received,  and  beg  you  to  accept  my  respectful  acknowledgements 
of  the  Design  of  a  Monument  to  the  memory  of  our  illustrious 
countryman,  General  Washington. 

Little  acquainted  with  the  arts  as  I  am,  it  would  be  impertinent 
in  me  to  express  any  opinion  upon  a  subject  decided  by  so  dis- 
tinguished a  Master.  But  I  cannot  avoid  saying  that  the  sim- 
plicity &  grandeur  of  the  plan  give  to  it  in  my  eyes  a  merit  that 
makes  me  hope  it  may  be  approved  by  the  President,  to  whom  I 
shall  take  the  earliest  opportunity  of  sending  it.     If  motives  of 

254 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  2$$ 

Economy,  or  any  other  to  which  I  am  a  stranger,  should  prevent 
its  adoption,  I  cannot  be  mistaken  in  assuring  you  that  it  will,  not- 
withstanding, be  received  as  a  precious  memorial  of  the  affection- 
ate attachment  of  a  Citizen,  whose  talents  and  reputation  reflect 
so  much  honor  upon  his  native  country. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  with  great  respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State,  &c. 

No.  75. 

London,  June  n,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  West,  the  President  of  the  Royal  Academy  &  who  is  indif- 
ferent to  nothing  that  concerns  his  native  Country,  lately  sent  me 
the  inclosed  letter  with  the  Design  of  a  Monument  to  the  memory 
of  General  Washington. 

The  plan  has,  as  I  understand,  been  approved  by  the  principal 
architects  of  this  country,  and  in  their  opinion  is  worthy  of  the 
great  character  whose  Virtues  it  is  intended  to  commemorate. 
With  most  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Bushrod  Washington  to  R.  King. 

Mount  Vernon,  June  12,  1800. 
Sir: 

Being  in  possession  of  all  the  papers  of  my  late  uncle  Genl. 
Washington  I  have  been  very  much  solicited  by  those  who  feel  an 
interest  in  the  many  important  public  events  which  occurred  in 
his  time,  and  which  he  contributed  in  some  measure  to  produce, 
to  prepare  for  publication  a  history  of  his  life.  This  I  have  at 
length  consented  to  do,  and  with  such  assistance  as  I  can  obtain, 
the  work  will  be  completed  as  expeditiously  as  my  other  employ- 
ments will  permit. 

Whether  a  history  formed  from  the  Journals  and  other  papers 
of  the  General  will  be  more  authentic  than  any  other  which  can 
be  written,  I  will  not  pretend  to  say  ;  but  finding  that  proposals 
have  been  made  by  others  both  here  and  in  England  for  publish- 
ing a  similar  work,  I  deem  it  proper  that  as  early  and  as  general 


256  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 


a  notice  as  possible  should  be  given  of  my  intentions  upon  this 
subject. 

If,  Sir,  you  will,  in  any  mode  which  you  may  deem  most  proper, 
make  known  these  intentions  in  Great  Britain,  I  shall  feel  myself 
very  much  gratified.     .     .     . 

With  sentiments  of  very  high  respect  &c,  &c 

Bushrod  Washington. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  76. 

London,  June  12,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  There  has  not  been  time  to  hear  anything  further  from 
Mr.  Smith,  concerning  the  Jewels  mentioned  in  a  former  letter, 
and  I  am  in  hopes  that  he  will  find  means  to  avoid  the  demand  : 
as  they  could  not  be  procured  at  Birmingham.  I  have  with  the 
assistance  of  the  consul  Mr.  Williams,  obtained  an  Estimate  of 
the  cost  in  London  ;  according  to  which  we  could  not  purchase 
them  for  less  than  ^7000.  Sterling.  The  principal  articles  could 
not  immediately  be  furnished  at  any  price,  as  they  were  never 
made  except  by  order  &  it  would  require  a  year  to  complete 
them. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  N.  Webster  Esq. 

London,  June  12,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  sometime  since  received  from  Col.  Pickering  a  Bill  upon  me 

for  ^95.  Sterling,  with  the  letter  of  advice  that  accompanied  it. 

Before  it  came  to  hand,  Dr.  Lettsome  had  written  me  a  Letter, 

expressing  his  disappointment  and  concern  in  having  just  received 

a  note  from  Messrs.  Robinson,  with  a  copy  of  your  History  of 

Pestilential  Diseases.     In  a  subsequent  conversation  with  the  Dr. 

I  perceive  that  in  his  opinion  the  work  ought  not  to  have  been 

published  by  you  in  America,  where,  as  he  observes,  Messrs.  R. 

expected  to  have  sold  a  considerable  portion  of  their  Edition  ; 

that  as  the  American  Edition  was  published  first,  it  could  not  be 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  2$? 

expected  that  Messrs.  R.  would  consent  to  pay  ioo  Guineas,  for 
a  manuscript  Copy,  instead  of  waiting  a  few  weeks  for  a  printed 
one,  at  the  common  price  ;  and  that  according  to  the  Laws  con- 
cerning literary  property  it  is  free  for  any  one  to  reprint  in  England 
a  work  first  published  in  a  foreign  country. 

When  your  Bill  arrived,  I  desired  Dr.  Lettsome  to  give  notice 
of  it  to  Messrs.  R.,  and  when  due,  I  directed  my  Banker  to  present 
it  to  Messrs.  Robinson  for  payment,  "  which  they  refused  to 
make,  stating  that  as  Mr.  Webster  had  published  the  Book  him- 
self in  America  and  sent  several  copies  over  here  to  be  disposed 
of,  they  did  not  consider  themselves  as  engaged  for  the  purchase  ; 
but  had  printed  the  Book  for  Mr.  Webster's  account,  and  any 
profit  that  may  arise  on  the  sale  they  shall  hold  themselves  ac- 
countable to  him  for." 

Under  these  circumstances  I  am  obliged  to  return  the  Bill  to 
Col.  Pickering  unpaid. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  &c 
Rufus  King. 

John  Jay  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  16  June,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Altho*  I  could  write  to  you  a  long  letter,  and  on  interesting 
Subjects,  yet  the  Liberties  often  taken  with  Letters  on  the  Ocean 
make  Reserve  and  Caution  necessary.  We  are  impatient  to  learn 
whether  any  and  what  great  Events  have  as  yet  marked  the  present 
Campaign  in  Europe  ;  and  whether  it  is  probable  that  the  Expecta- 
tions which  seemed  to  be  formed  from  it  will  be  realized  ;  as  yet 
this  Question  appears  to  be  a  difficult  one. 

You  will  perceive  from  our  public  Papers  that  the  affairs  of  this 
Country  are  not  free  from  agitation  ;  and  that  the  ensuing  Elec- 
tion for  the  Presidt.  of  the  United  States  causes  much  attention 
and  activity.  What  will  probably  be  the  issue  of  it,  cannot  at 
present  be  foreseen  ;  coalitions  are  talked  of,  but  if  they  should 
take  place  I  doubt  their  being  durable.  The  Political  World  ap- 
pears to  be  in  a  strange  state  everywhere,  nor  is  the  moral  world 
in  a  much  more  eligible  condition.  These  things  excite  curiosity 
and  the  rising  Generation  may  have  theirs  gratifyed,  tho'  perhaps 
at  some  Expence. 

VOL.   III. — 17 


258  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

In  this  State  Parties  continue  much  the  same  ;  the  Federalists 
not  uniformly  active  nor  united,  and  their  most  influential  men, 
at  least  too  many  of  them,  devoted  to  their  professional  or  personal 
affairs.  Their  opponents  on  the  contrary  are  persevering,  united, 
diligent  and  unsparing  of  Time  or  Trouble,  or  Expence.  These 
collisions  may  yet  produce  Sparks  and  fire  ;  but  the  Extent  of 
our  Country  and  the  Temper  of  our  People  are  favorable  to 
Tranquillity. 

With  great  Esteem  and  Respect  as  your  most  obedt.  Servt. 

John  Jay. 

R.  King  to  Geo.  Chalmers,  Esq. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  18  June,  1800. 
Sir  : 

I  have  received  a  note  from  Lord  Grenville,  in  answer  to  one 
from  me  respecting  the  Georgia  Papers,  in  which  his  Lordship 
informs  me  that  you  will  deliver  them  to  me  or  my  order.  I  ac- 
cordingly request  that  you  will  have  the  goodness  to  deliver  them 
to  the  bearer,  John  Munro  who  will  give  you  the  requisite  receipts 
upon  their  delivery. 

With  great  Respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  24  June,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  Suffer  me  to  say  a  word  or  two  about  Dr.  Romayne,  by 
whom  I  send  this  letter.  The  Doctor,  since  the  failure  of  his 
scheme  with  Governor  Blount  for  establishing  themselves  in  the 
possesion  and  government  of  the  Floridas  and  Louisiana,  has  be- 
come so  disgusted  with  politics,  that  he  seems  to  have  abandoned 
them  forever,  and  his  object  in  visiting  London,  is  to  settle  there 
for  life  and  devote  himself  to  medical  pursuits.  It  is  certainly  a 
departure  from  all  delicacy  and  propriety,  to  say  no  more  of  it,  for 
any  person  to  embark  in  any  political  project  affecting  his  country 
without  the  concurrence  of  its  government.  Yet  I  cannot  charge 
the  Doctor  with  intending  to  do  his  country  the  least  degree  of  in- 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  259 

jury.  His  imagination  was  heated  with  an  idea  that  the  French 
were  negotiating  with  the  Spaniards  for  those  countries,  and  that 
the  possession  of  them  by  the  French  would  prove  a  source  of  the 
greatest  mischiefs  to  us.  Hence  he  thought  it  not  amiss,  provided 
he  could  make  a  great  man  of  himself,  to  form  a  combination  with 
the  British  government  to  defeat  the  plan  of  the  French,  and 
thereby  give  us  friendly  neighbours.  .  .  .  The  Doctor  con- 
ceiving that  his  countrymen  look  upon  him  with  a  suspicious  eye 
has  left  us  forever.     .     .     . 

As  to  our  State  politics,  they  certainly  are  in  an  unfortunate  train. 
Mr.  Jay's  seclusion  from  the  world  and  his  distant  manners  have 
been  constantly  diminishing  the  popularity  of  our  party  ;  and  it  has 
so  happened  by  various  untoward  events  that  our  best  and  most  in- 
influential  friends  in  the  northern  part  of  the  State  have  separated 
from  each  other,  and  are  setting  themselves  up  against  each  other's 
views  with  much  bitterness  and  hostility.  This  has  arisen  in  the 
first  instance  from  a  suggestion  dropped  by  Mr.  Van  Vechten  (a 
lawyer  of  the  first  consequence  at  Albany  and  at  the  head  of  the 
federalists)  that  the  New  England  people  were  gaining  an  influ- 
ence with  too  much  rapidity  and  that  it  was  time  to  check  them. 
You  will  naturally  suppose  from  his  name  that  he  is  a  Dutchman. 
The  person  to  whom  he  made  the  suggestion  was  also  a  Dutch- 
man and  a  particular  friend  of  Mr.  Van  Vechten.  This  person 
(a  Mr.  Sanders)  mentioned  incautiously  Mr.  Van  Vechten's  idea. 
,  .  .  It  was  soon  spread  and  made  a  powerful  objection  against 
Mr.  Van  Vechten  and  his  Dutch  friends  at  the  last  election  by 
one  or  two  gentlemen  who  had  become  jealous  of  Mr.  V.'s  ascend- 
ency with  the  federal  party.  .  .  .  Van  Vechten's  suggestion 
with  Burr's  manoeuvres  for  two  or  three  years  in  the  Legislature 
and  Cooper's  ridiculous  and  overbearing  conduct  in  Oswego 
County  have  cut  up  our  influence  in  almost  all  the  upper  Counties 
by  the  roots  and  the  last  election  has  furnished  us  with  melancholy 
proofs  of  the  fact.  It  is  impossible  to  say  who  will  be  the  man 
set  up  as  Governor  by  the  Democrats,  Burr  has  undoubtedly  a  view 
to  the  office,  if  he  should  fail  in  being  President  or  Vice  President. 
He  certainly  means  to  avail  himself  of  all  chances  to  become  a 
great  man  ;  and  if  he  should  be  finally  disappointed,  it  will  not  be 
owing  to  his  want  of  industry — or  to  his  modesty  or  virtue.   .    .    . 

If  Mr.  Jay  sets  up  as  Governor,  I  think  it  probable  we  shall 


260  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

lose   the   election.     We   shall    certainly  do  better  with  the  Lt. 

Governor. 

The  French  &  British  cruisers  are  making  sad  havock  with  our 

trade.     Our  Underwriters  have  within  four  months  lost  half   a 

million  of  dollars.  I  speak  of  the  Underwriters  of  this  City.    .  .  , 

God  bless  you 
R.  T. 

James  McHenry  to  T.  Pickering. 

{Copy.) 

Philadelphia,  June  24,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  saw  this  morning  and  showed  to  Mr.  Liston  the  extract  of  the 
letter  which  you  communicated  to  me  last  evening  dated  Philadel- 
phia 19th  July  1798,  transmitted  for  a  letter  written  by  him  to 
James  Buchanan,  late  of  Baltimore.* 

He  scarcely  had  read  two  lines  when  he  said  he  wrote  the 
letter  ;  he  had  not  finished  half  of  it,  when  he  presented  it  to  me, 
saying,  must  not  every  one  perceive  that  it  was  mere  badinage  ; 
that  the  tap  on  the  shoulder — the  bosom  friend  — and  leading  of 
Mr.  Adams  by  the  nose,  were  allusions  to  what  he  had  been 
accused  of  by  the  opposers  of  government,  in  the  papers  ;  and 
that  the  observation  of  the  fly  upon  the  wheel  must  satisfy  the 
most  prejudiced  that  it  was  a  letter  of  sport  merely. 

I  observed  that  I  had  so  considered  it  ;  and  that  as  it  respected 
myself,  I  was  perfectly  satisfied.  It  was  certain,  however,  that 
the  contents  of  the  letter  made  a  different  impression  in  London, 
where  it  had  been  shown  as  a  confidential  letter,  and  where  the 
circumstances  which  gave  rise  to  the  allusions  were  not  known  ; 
and  that  when  these  should  be  forgotten  in  this  country  it  might 
be  used  by  disingenuous  men  to  effect  party  purposes. 

I  asked  him  if  he  had  preserved  Buchanan's  letters,  which  might 
serve  to  show,  in  case  of  need,  that  it  was  a  mere  sportive  effusion; 
that  if  so,  I  thought  it  would  be  proper  he  should  communicate 
them  to  Mr.  Pickering,  who  stood  most  prominent  in  the  piece. 
He  did  not  know  that  he  had,  but  would  examine. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours  truly 

James  McHenry. 
*  See  page  213  for  the  extract. 


1800]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  26 1 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  June  26,  1800. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  lately  received  your  private  letter  of  the  24th  of  March,  giv- 
ing an  account  of  James  Buchanan  and  of  his  correspondence 
with  Mr.  Liston  ;  and  subjoining  an  extract  of  one  of  Mr.  Liston's 
letters  to  Buchanan,  dated  July  19,  1798.  This  extract  was  of  a 
nature  so  extraordinary,  that  I  declared  I  should  utterly  disbelieve 
it  being  genuine,  had  you  not  asserted  that  I  might  rely  on  its 
authenticity.  I  shewed  it  to  Mr.  Wolcott  &  Mr.  McHenry.  The 
latter  having  always  regularly  read  the  Aurora,  said  at  once,  that 
it  was  merely  a  piece  of  sportive  irony  ;  for,  said  he,  in  the  Auroras, 
preceding  the  date  of  Mr.  Liston's  letter,  Mr.  Pickering  was  called 
the  bosom  friend  of  Liston  ;  it  mentioned  taps  on  the  shoulders 
of  members  of  Congress,  and  Liston's  leading  the  President  by 
the  nose.  It  was  thought  by  us  proper  that  Mr.  Liston  should 
see  the  extract  ;  and  most  expedient  that  McHenry  should  copy 
&  shew  it  to  him  ;  for  if  any  ill  use  should  hereafter  be  made  of 
the  letter  by  Buchanan,  or  any  one  else,  Mr.  McHenry  could  ex- 
plain the  matter  more  satisfactorily  than  I  who  was  distinguished 
in  the  letter  as  the  "  bosom  friend  "  of  Liston.  Besides  as  you 
desired  not  to  appear  in  the  affair,  unless  it  was  necessary,  Mr. 
McHenry  as  the  townsman  of  Buchanan,  might  exhibit  the  ex- 
tract, without  exciting  any  suspicion  of  the  source  from  whence 
the  extract  was  received.  Mr.  McHenry  accordingly  waited  on 
Mr.  Liston,  &  the  enclosed  copy  of  Mr.  Mcllenry's  letter  to  me 
of  the  24th  shews  the  result.  We  consider  Mr.  Liston  entirely 
exculpated — except  of  indiscretion  in  holding  such  a  correspond- 
ence with  such  a  person  as  Buchanan. 

Yesterday  Mr.  Liston  called  on  me  and  read  to  me  some  pas- 
sages in  Buchanan's  Letter,  which  not  unnaturally  led  to  the  kind 
of  answer  which  was  given.  But  Buchanan  is  inexcusable  in  ex- 
hibiting it  as  a  serious  communication.  You  say  that  Buchanan 
was  in  London  in  order  to  settle  his  affairs,  which  were  much 
deranged,  and  he  might  think  his  views  might  be  aided  by  shew- 
ing his  credit  &  consequence  in  being  the  confidential  correspond- 
ent of  Mr.  Liston.  The  latter  mentioned  the  origin  of  his 
acquaintance  with   Buchanan  ;  that  his  connexions  in  Glasgow 


262  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

were  respectable  (you  know  I  presume,  that  he  is  the  brother  of 
Thomas  Buchanan  of  New  York)  and  the  acquaintance  of  Mrs. 
Liston,  who  received  of  course,  with  Mr.  Liston,  letters  to  James 
Buchanan,  and  on  their  way  thro'  Baltimore,  they  had  been  treated 
by  B.  with  much  attention.  The  "  proper  letter  "  which  Mr.  Lis- 
ton says  he  got  Genl.  Washington  to  write  was  the  General's  letter 
accepting,  in  July,  1798,  the  command  of  the  army.  This  was  an 
event  which  no  human  being  could  foresee,  and  Mr.  Liston's  say- 
ing, ''that  he  had  prepared  all  this  the  preceding  autumn,"  con- 
firms (if  confirmation  were  necessary)  the  correctness  of  the 
explanation  which  has  been  given.  More  strongly  to  throw  ridi- 
cule on  the  consequence  &  influence  in  the  administration  of  our 
government  ascribed  to  him  in  the  Aurora,  he  here  assumes  to 
have  contemplated  what  no  man  can  be  imagined  to  have  thought 
eight  or  ten  months  before. 

I  am  informed  that  the  President  denies  that  there  has  been 
any  coalition  between  him  &  Mr.  Jefferson.  He  has  also  denied 
that  he  ever  said  there  was  a  British  faction  in  the  Senate  and 
among  those  American  citizens  who  may  be  called  public  men. 
On  this  I  will  only  say  that  the  President  is  not  always  consistent 
or  accurate  in  his  remembrance.  To  me,  he  said,  that  Mr.  Jeffer- 
son had  very  little  of  that  knowledge  which  was  necessary  for  a 
statesman  ;  and  shortly  after  to  McHenry,  that  Mr.  Jefferson  was 
a  very  proper  person  to  be  President  of  the  U.  States  ;  "  and  that 
he  would  sooner  serve  as  Vice-President  under  him,  or  even  as 
Minister  resident  at  the  Hague  than  be  indebted  for  his  election 
to  such  a  being  as  Hamilton  ;  "  whom  in  the  same  sentence  he 
called  a  bastard  and  as  much  an  alien  as  Gallatin.  No  one  could 
have  imagined  Mr.  Adams  capable  of  such  billingsgate  language. 
But  a  man  so  entirely  under  the  dominion  of  violent  passions,  is 
capable  of  anything.  In  his  conversation  on  the  9th  of  May  with 
Mr.  Goodhue  he  vehemently  expressed  his  resentment  at  some 
past  measures  of  the  Senate,  which  he  asserted  were  designed  by 
a  "damned  faction  to  wound  his  feelings."  But  I  will  give  you 
the  substance  of  this  conversation  in  the  inclosed  extract  of  Mr. 
Goodhue's  letter  to  me.  Mr.  Goodhue  had  forgotten  some 
things,  which  he  had  recited  to  me  the  next  morning  ;  among 
others,  the  charge  against  the  Senate  in  this  elegant  expression, 
"  and  you  crammed  Hamilton  down  my  throat." 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  263 

The  President  arrived  here  last  Friday  (or  Thursday)  and 
stayed  till  Monday  and  then  proceeded  eastward  ;  unnoticed  by 
any  number  of  persons,  and  those,  few  of  those  who  had  been,  or 
are,  public  men.  By  endeavoring  to  conciliate  the  democrats,  he 
has  excited  only  their  contempt.  The  Aurora,  I  am  told,  is  dis- 
tinguished in  this  style. 

If  I  continue  a  correspondence  with  you,  I  hope  in  future  it 
will  be  on  more  agreeable  subjects. 

With  Sincere  respect  &  esteem  &c 

Yr.  obed.  Servt. 

T.  Pickering. 

The  President  passed  thro'  New  York  unnoticed.  You  will  be 
gratified  by  the  reception  of  Genl.  Hamilton  at  Boston,  as  stated 
in  Jno.  Russell's  paper. 


Extract  of  a  Letter  from  B.  Goodhue,  Esq.,  dated  Salem, 

June  2,  1800,  to  T.  Pickering. 

"  You  ask  me  to  give  you  the  substance  of  the  conversation 
which  passed  between  the  President  of  the  U.  S.  &  myself  on  the 
9th  of  May,  when  I  waited  on  him  to  bid  him  adieu,  previous  to 
my  leaving  Philadelphia  for  home. 

"The  conversation  or  rather  his  relation  of  injuries  which  he 
thought  he  had  received  with  his  resentful  observations  relative 
thereto,  took  up  a  considerable  time  ;  'tis  impossible  to  recollect 
the  words  precisely  made  use  of  ;  the  substance  was  as  follows. 

"  Soon  after  being  with  him,  he  introduced,  by  some  previous 
observations,  his  very  uneasy  sensations  in  his  public  situation, 
resulting  from  some  past  measures  of  the  Senate,  which  he  with 
much  warmth,  and  even  vehemence,  asserted  were  designed  by  a 
damned  faction  purposely  to  wound  his  feelings  &  character  :  upon 
asking  for  an  explanation,  he  said  he  alluded  to  the  rejection  of  his 
son-in-law  Col.  Smith,  when  he  nominated  him  Adjutant  General 
with  the  rank  of  Brigadier  ;  that  we  had  killed  his  daughter  by 
doing  this  ;  that  rejection  originated  with  Hamilton,  and  from  him 
to  Pickering,  who  he  said  (with  extreme  agitation  and  anger)  influ- 
enced me  &  others  to  reject  him  ;  that  Col.  Smith  was  a  man  of 


264  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

the  first  military  knowledge  in  the  U.  S.,  and  was  recommended 
to  the  appointment  by  Genl.  Washington,  &c,  and  dwelt  long  on 
this  subject  with  great  irritation. 

"Another  instance  he  observed,  with  the  same  excessive  anger, 
had  just  occurred  in  the  Senate,  purposely  to  wound  him  &  his 
family,  with  respect  to  his  late  nomination  of  Mr.  Johnson  to  be  at 
the  head  of  the  Stamps,  which  they  had  postponed,  postponed, 
postponed  from  day  to  day  ;  and  when  at  last  they  voted  upon  it, 
they  were  equally  divided,  and  the  V.  President  gave  his  casting 
vote  in  favour  of  the  nomination  ;  that  all  this  was  done  because 
his  son  had  happened  to  fall  in  love  with  Johnson's  daughter  and 
married  her.  I  endeavoured  to  moderate  his  passion,  by  abstain- 
ing from  any  language  that  would  irritate,  but  to  no  purpose  ;  for 
his  resentment  appeared  implacable  towards  the  conduct  of  the 
Senate  in  those  instances,  which  resulted,  as  he  said,  with  no 
other  view  than  to  wound  his  feelings  and  those  of  his  family  j 
and  that  Hamilton,  Pickering  and  some  others  whom  he  named  in 
Massachusetts  were  constantly  endeavouring  to  ruin  him  ;  that 
Pickering  wrote  a  letter  to  Boston  to  S.  Higginson  on  the  subject 
of  his  sending  his  last  envoys  to  France,  filled  with  expressions  of 
hatred  to  the  measure  and  calculated  to  injure  him  in  the  view 
of  the  public,  and  that  Higginson  read  the  letter  with  the  same 
design  at  the  insurance  office  in  Boston  ;  that  the  measure  of 
sending  the  envoys  was  one  of  the  most  glorious  deeds  he  ever 
did  ;  and  that  he  would  order  it  to  be  engraved  on  his  coffin,  &c, 
that  he  was  sensible  that  he  should  not  be  re-elected  ;  and  after 
40  years'  service  for  the  public,  that  he  should  be  obliged  to  return 
to  Quincy  and  follow  the  plough  for  a  living,  &c,  in  the  strain  of 
excessive  anger  on  the  subjects  I  have  mentioned,  and  others  that 
had  an  affinity  to  them.  The  conversation  continued  until  I  left 
him.  In  short,  it  was  one  continued  theme  of  the  most  bitter 
complaint,  relative  to  the  conduct  of  the  Senate  in  the  cases  I  have 
mentioned  and  some  others,  whose  sole  object  he  said  was  to 
wound  and  ruin  both  him  &  his  family,  and  through  the  whole 
discovered  a  perfect  rage  of  passion  that  I  could  not  have  ex- 
pected from  the  supreme  executive." 

*  The  President's  ascribing  every  official  act  of  the  Senators,  as 

*  Marked  from  the  duplicate  of  Mr.  P's  letter. — J.  M. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  26$ 

well  as  the  private  conversations  and  letters  of  others,  who  I  am 
certain  have  the  public  good  as  much  at  heart  as  the  P.  reminds 
me  of  his  abrupt  declaration  made  at  his  table  last  winter  (as  re- 
ported to  me  by  different  persons).  That  the  King  of  Great  Britain 
and  his  ministers  had  for  five  and  twenty  years  past,  entertained  a 
particular  resentment  towards  him,  and  this  brings  to  one's  recollec- 
tion the  anecdote  of  Dennis  the  critic  &  Louis  XIV. 

T.  P. 


R.  King  to  His  Excy.  the  Governor  of  Georgia. 

London,  July  2,  1800. 

Sir: 

Since  I  had  the  honor  of  writing  to  your  Excellency,  I  have 
received  from  this  Government  a  large  trunk  &  chest  of  Georgia 
Papers,  which  are  now  on  board  the  Ship  Independent  soon  to 
sail  from  this  Port  for  Savannah.  These  Papers  are  in  such  con- 
fusion, that  I  have  not  been  able  to  form  any  judgment  of  their 
importance  or  value.  The  trunk,  which  was  much  decayed  has 
been  repaired,  and  from  the  care  observed  in  protecting  both  it 
and  the  chest  with  mats,  I  am  in  hopes  they  will  arrive  without 
damage.  I  know  not  whether  these  are  the  papers  seen  by  the 
person  mentioned  in  your  letter  to  me  ;  they  were  found  among 
the  Papers  of  the  late  Board  of  Trade  in  one  of  the  apartments 
of  the  building  occupied  by  the  Treasury,  but  I  have  not  been 
able  to  ascertain  when  or  by  whom  they  were  brought  hither. 
The  suggestion  that  they  were  deposited  in  the  Tower,  could  not 
have  been  correct,  as  no  such  papers,  nor  indeed  any  of  so  modern 
a  Date  are  to  be  found  there. 

I  shall  be  gratified,  should  these  Papers  supply  to  any  con- 
siderable extent  the  chasm  in  the  records  of  the  State,  and  I  beg 
you  to  be  assured  that  it  would  afford  me  still  greater  satisfaction, 
if  by  any  farther  exertion  on  my  part,  we  should  succeed  in  com- 
pleting them. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  consideration  &c 

Rufus  King. 


266  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State,  &c. 

No.  77. 

London,  5  July,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  repeated  disasters  experienced  by  the  Austrian  Army  in 
Swabia,  must  have  made  a  strong  impression  upon  the  imperial 
cabinet,  and  being  followed  by  the  overthrow  of  the  Army  in 
Italy,  and  a  conviction  by  which  General  Melas  was  obliged  to 
purchase  a  retreat  to  Mantua,  by  the  Surrender  of  the  Fortresses 
and  the  entire  evacuation  of  Genoa,  Piedmont  &  Lombardy,  it 
will  surprize  few  persons  if  the  Emperor  has  already  entered  into 
negotiations  for  a  Second  and  Separate  Peace.  It  is  now  more 
than  three  months  since  the  ministers  of  this  Country,  have  been 
in  constant  expectation  of  the  conclusion  of  a  treaty  with  Austria, 
by  which  in  consideration  of  Loans,  Subsidies  and  detachments 
of  Bavaria  &  other  auxiliary  troops,  hired  by  England,  Austria 
should  engage  to  go  on  with  the  war,  and  not  to  enter  into  any 
negotiation  with  France  except  jointly  with  England.  This  Treaty 
is  not  yet  concluded,  at  least  no  information  has  been  received  of 
its  conclusion  and  tho'  money  was  prepared,  I  have  reason  to  be- 
lieve that  not  a  shilling  has  been  remitted  to  Vienna.  This  want 
of  good  understanding  and  mutual  confidence  between  Vienna 
&  London  strengthens  the  probability  that  the  former  will  pursue 
the  course  of  her  apparent  interest,  disregarding  the  wishes  and 
views  of  the  latter. 

Should  Austria  make  a  peace  with  France,  there  is  little  doubt, 
whatever  may  be  the  inclination  of  the  Ministry,  that  the  voice 
of  the  English  nation  will  be  loud  and  irresistible  in  favor  of 
Peace. 

The  Russian  Troops,  which  served  in  Holland,  have  been  em- 
barked on  board  the  Russian  men  of  war,  which  were  likewise  in 
the  English  service  ;  and  the  whole  sailed  a  few  days  ago  for  the 
Baltic  ;  the  Emperor  still  continues  his  dissatisfaction  towards 
England  as  well  as  Austria,  and  apprehensions  are  entertained 
among  those  engaged  in  the  Northern  and  Eastland  trade  of  this 
country,  that  projects  are  on  foot  between  the  Northern  Powers 
that  will  materially  affect  their  Interest  as  well  as  that  of  the 
Nation  in  the  articles  of  Naval  Stores.    There  are  various  rumours 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  267 

of  Engagements,  about  to  be  formed  in  the  North  for  the  protec- 
tion of  their  Trade  against  the  English.  These  may  be  well 
founded,  or,  which  is  full  as  likely,  they  may  be  mere  conjectures 
originating  in  the  known  dissatisfaction  between  England  and 
the  Northern  Powers. 

You  will  have  seen  the  accounts  of  the  recommencement  of  the 
war  in  Egypt  ;  the  blame  is  thrown  upon  England,  and  has  doubt- 
less much  injured  her  influence  at  Constantinople,  where  the 
Russians  will  do  nothing  to  assist  her  in  regaining  what  she  has 
lost. 

On  the  whole  let  the  decision  of  Austria  be  for  peace  or  war, 
the  Reputation  and  influence  of  this  Country  upon  the  Continent, 
if  I  am  not  mistaken,  are  at  this  time  at  a  lower  ebb  than  they 
have  been  at  any  period  of  the  war  :  this  certainly  is  not  the 
present  condition  of  France. 

With  great  Respect  &  Esteem  &c 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

N.  Low  to  King — Suggests  other  Investments  than  U.  S.  Loans — King  has 
entire  Confidence  in  the  U.  S.  and  its  Loans — Hale  to  King — Hamilton's 
Visit  to  Boston — Hale  for  the  Re-election  of  Adams — King  to  Lord  Gren- 
ville — American  Vessels  captured  off  Cadiz  under  Pretence  of  Breach  of 
Blockade — No  Notice  of  it  Given — Request  that  an  End  be  immediately 
put  to  these  Abuses — To  H.  Dundas — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Statement 
relative  to  it — F.  Ames  to  King — President's  Toast — Intrigues  about  the 
Presidency — Hamilton's  Visit — Adams'  Violent  Language — Speculations 
relative  to  the  coming  Election  and  the  Action  of  the  Jacobins — King  to 
Secretary  of  State — Treaty  between  England  and  Austria  loaning  Money  to 
the  Latter,  who  shall  not  make  a  separate  Peace — French  so  superior  to  the 
Austrians  they  may  be  obliged  to  make  Peace — Cabot  to  King — Adams 
departing  from  the  Policy  of  1798  now  denounces  high  Federalists — Con- 
gratulates the  Country  King  is  in  his  Position  Abroad. 

Mr.  Low,  to  whom  Mr.  King  had  given  in  charge  the  care 
of  his  property  in  N.  York  during  his  residence  in  Eng- 
land, wrote  to  Mr.  King  to  suggest  other  investments  than 
in  the  funds  of  the  United  States  Government,  being  alarmed 
by  the  uncertainty  in  his  mind  of  their  stability  in  conse- 
quence of  the  political  condition  of  the  country  and  want 
of  confidence  in  the  future.  To  this  letter  Mr.  King  sent  an 
answer,  showing  that  he  had  no  alarm  as  to  the  Government 
and  that  he  will  continue  to  invest  in  the  funds. 


R.  King  to  N.  Low. 

London,  July  7th,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  have  also  duly  received  your  letter  of  the  24th  of 
May  written  as  I  suspect  under  the  gloomy  apprehensions  proceed- 
ing  from   the   political  disappointments  of   the  four  preceding 

268 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  269 

weeks.  I  certainly  have  in  common  with  others  my  preferences 
both  in  regard  to  men  and  measures,  and  consequently  in  the 
changes  that  occur  must  feel  frequent  disappointments.  But  I 
have  no  notion  that  our  Government,  or  the  security  of  our  pro- 
perty can  or  will  be,  in  any  material  degree,  affected  by  any 
changes  that  have  happened  or  that  in  my  opinion  are  likely  to 
happen.  I  should  be  sorry  for  the  important  change  that  you 
(mention)  but  which  I  do  not  think  will  take  place  ;  should  your 
conjecture  however  prove  true  it  would  doubtless  be  followed  by 
the  removal  of  several  persons  whose  continuance  in  office  might 
be  agreeable  to  the  impartial  public  as  well  as  themselves,  and 
likewise  by  variations  more  or  less  considerable  in  the  measures 
of  administration.  But  I  should  not  from  thence  conclude  that 
the  Government  was  lost,  that  the  public  faith  and  character  were 
destroyed,  and  that  property  would  be  thrown  off  its  foundation 
— really  if  I  did  believe  so  I  should  consider  it  the  highest  folly  to 
approve  not  only  an  useless  but  a  criminal  conduct  to  endeavour 
to  Support  a  Constitution,  which  at  each  periodical  election  would 
expose  the  country  to  so  great  and  critical  a  risque  !  I  believe  in 
no  such  consequences,  and  therefore  will  continue  to  invest  my 
property  in  the  Funds,  which  rest  upon  a  security,  that  I  am  not 
convinced  nor  inclined  to  believe  will  fail.  Presidents,  Secre- 
taries, Generals  and  Ministers — myself  among  them — may  be  re- 
moved, still  the  machine  will  move  on  !  Soberly  and  gravely 
there  is  but  one  change  that  would  materially  and  deeply  affect 
me,  and  that  is  the  change  of  my  Agent,  whose  equal  I  am  con- 
vinced I  could  never  obtain. 

Truly  &  faithfully 

Rufus  King. 


J.  Hale  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  July  9,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

By  this  conveyance  you  will  receive  five  small  pamphlets  pur- 
porting to  be  didactick  Orations.  Respect  for  you  &  my  other 
friends  about  you,  not  the  merits  of  the  performance,  induces  me 
to  transmit  it. 

Our  late  public  papers  contain  nothing. 


270  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

A  report  has  prevailed  within  a  few  days  of  Jefferson's  death. 
This  is  not  credited. 

Hamilton  has  paid  us  a  visit.  Electioneering  topics  were  his 
principal  theme.  In  his  mode  of  handling  them,  he  did  not  ap- 
pear to  be  the  great  general  which  his  talents  designate  him.  As 
November  approaches  the  feelings  of  parties  are  excited  &  dis- 
played &  not  in  the  most  liberal  manner  by  either  of  the  three 
parties.  I  am  decidedly  for  the  re-election  of  Mr.  Adams  ;  & 
notwithstanding  the  opinions  of  men  of  more  weight  &  intelli- 
gence than  myself  to  the  contrary,  I  believe  Mr.  A.  will  be  the 
successful  candidate.  The  interests  of  the  country  require  it,  in 
order  that  something  like  a  system  may  appear  to  actuate  our 
public  councils.  At  present  we  appear  all  "  up  in  the  wind." 
Our  first  men  are  opposed  to  each  other  from  false  pride  or 
ill-founded  jealousy.  Many  resignations  have  taken  place  in  the 
lower  house  of  Congress.  Men  who  have  not  sufficient  firmness 
to  be  in  a  minority  when  a  faction  is  predominant  are  vacating 
their  seats  to  avoid  the  humiliation  they  would  in  their  view  other- 
wise experience.  As  the  crisis  approaches  &  as  untoward  circum- 
stances seem  to  prevail  my  own  evil  forebodings  decrease.  It  is 
sometimes  easier  to  declare  one's  creed  than  to  support  it  upon 
satisfactory  ground. 

Your  friend  &  most  obed  srvt. 

J.  Hale. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  July  10,  1800. 
My  Lord  : 

During  the  command  of  Lord  St.  Vincent  before  Cadiz,  and 
while  the  Spanish  fleet  was  in  that  Port,  the  intercourse  of  neutral 
merchants  with  Cadiz,  was  subject  to  a  limited  and  occasional 
interruption,  and  the  Ships  of  the  United  States,  laden  with  inno- 
cent merchandize,  tho'  strictly  visited,  were  rarely  prevented  from 
pursuing  their  accustomed  trade  with  that  market. 

Since  the  departure  of  the  Spanish  fleet,  and  the  succession  of 
Lord  Keith  to  that  command,  the  vessels  of  the  U.  S.  bound  to 
and  coming  from  Cadiz,  including,  as  I  am  informed,  some  that 
had  entered  the  Port  after  having  been  visited  by  the  fleet  under 


l8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  2JY 

Lord  St.  Vincent,  have  been  captured  under  the  pretence  of  a 
breach  of  Blockade,  as  well  in  the  European  seas,  as  in  those  of 
America  ;  in  which  quarter  some  very  richly  laden  ships,  regularly 
and  openly  cleared  in  the  American  Ports  for  Cadiz,  have  lately 
been  captured  and  sent  to  Halifax  by  one  of  his  Majesty's  frigates, 
commanded  by  Capt.  Pellew. 

Several  other  vessels  returning  from  Cadiz  to  the  U.  States, 
have  on  the  like  pretence  been  taken  &  sent  for  adjudication  to 
the  West  Indies. 

As  the  usual  notice  has  not  been  given  of  the  Blockade  of  the 
Port  of  Cadiz,  I  am  led  to  conclude  that  none  has  been  insti- 
tuted, and  consequently  that  the  interruption  of  our  trade,  upon 
the  charge  of  breaking  a  Blockade  which  did  not  exist,  or  of 
which  we  are  ignorant,  has  been  altogether  irregular.  I  pray  your 
Lordship  to  inform  me  whether  I  am  correct  in  this  supposition, 
and  in  case  I  am,  I  persuade  myself  that  your  Lordship  will  think 
it  reasonable  that  immediate  orders  should  be  given  to  put  an 
end  to  these  Abuses  in  future. 

I  have  the  honor  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  H.  Dundas,  Esq. 

{Private.) 

Mill  Hill,  July  u,  1800. 
Sir: 

Sir  William  Pulteney  has  been  so  obliging  as  to  inform  me  of 
the  conversation  between  you  and  him  respecting  the  claim  of 
the  State  of  Maryland  to  a  quantity  of  Bank  Stock  that  belonged 
to  the  colony  of  Maryland,  and  in  consequence  of  his  opinion 
that  I  might  without  impropriety  write  you  a  confidential  letter, 
with  the  hope  of  engaging  your  influence  in  favor  of  a  speedy  set- 
tlement of  that  claim.  I  have  drawn  up  from  memory,  for  the 
Papers  are  not  before  me,  a  short  statement,  that  I  believe  ex- 
hibits a  pretty  accurate  view  of  the  case.  In  different  conversa- 
tions with  Lord  Grenville,  I  have  always  found  in  him  a  disposition 
favorable  to  the  claim,  but  his  Lordship  has  constantly  ended  by 
referring  me  to  the  Lord  Chancellor.     I  have  often,   tho'  not 


272  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

lately,  conversed  with  the  Chancellor,  who  has  uniformly  ex- 
pressed himself  upon  this  subject  in  a  way  that  led  me  to  suppose, 
and  to  assure  the  State  of  Maryland  that  the  Stock  would  be 
transferred  to  me  for  it's  use.  Of  late  I  have  declined  mention- 
ing the  subject  to  the  Chancellor,  lest  I  should  give  occasion  to 
his  Lordship  to  think  me  importunate  ;  but  I  may  be  permitted 
to  observe  to  you,  that  the  delay  that  has  happened,  has  on  more 
than  one  occasion  proved  injurious  to  our  public  affairs,  always 
affected  by  public  opinion  ;  and  as  an  apology  for  the  solicitude 
that  I  now  feel  upon  this  subject,  as  well  as  for  the  trouble  I  give 
you  in  receiving  this  letter,  I  take  the  liberty  to  add  that  it  is  my 
sincere  opinion  that  a  most  favorable  and  beneficial  influence 
upon  a  measure  of  great  importance  to  the  United  States,  and 
perhaps  not  indifferent  to  others,  would  be  effected  by  the  trans- 
fer of  this  Stock  in  season  to  be  known  by  the  Legislature  of 
Maryland  at  its  meeting  in  the  beginning  of  November. 

With  great  Respect  &c 
Rufus  King. 

Maryland  Bank  Stock. 

Several  years  before  the  American  War,  the  Colony  of  Maryland 
by  a  tax  collected  from  its  inhabitants,  raised  a  sum  of  money 
which  was  remitted  to  three  London  Merchants  of  the  name  of 
Hanbury,  Grove  and  Russell,  to  be  invested  in  Bank  Stock. 

The  object  of  the  investment  was  the  creation  of  a  small  an- 
nuity applicable  to  certain  public  purposes  in  the  Colony.  This 
Stock,  the  Dividends  having  been  invested  in  new  capital,  must 
amount  at  this  time  to  about  ^100,000. 

In  the  course  of  the  American  War,  the  real  estates  of  all  Brit- 
ish subjects  were  confiscated  by  the  State  of  Maryland,  and  prop- 
erty belonging  to  both  Hanbury  &  Russell  was  included  in  the 
confiscation.  On  the  return  of  Peace,  Maryland  called  upon  the 
Trustees,  Hanbury,  Grove  &  Russell  to  account.  Grove  lost 
nothing  in  Maryland,  and  did  not  object  to  account.  Hanbury 
consented  to  account  in  consequence  of  an  agreement  made  with 
the  Agent  of  Maryland  by  which  his  loss  is  to  be  compensated  as 
soon  as  the  Stock  is  transferred  to  the  State.  Russell  refused  to 
account,  and  set  up  a  claim  to  indemnify  himself  out  of  the  Stock, 
for  his  Property  confiscated  in  Maryland  ;  taking  care  notwith- 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  273 

standing  to  prefer  his  claim  with  those  of  the  American  Loyalists 
for  compensation  from  the  British  Government.  At  this  stage  of 
the  Business  the  Agent  of  Maryland  filed  a  Bill  in  chancery 
against  the  trustees  to  oblige  them  to  account.  Grove  was  in- 
different which  side  prevailed  ;  Hanbury  united  with  the  Agent 
of  Maryland,  as  his  compensation  depends  upon  the  transfer  being 
made  to  the  State.  Russell  still  opposed,  and  preferred  his  claim 
for  compensation  out  of  the  Stock,  which  was  ordered  to  be  trans- 
ferred to  the  Accountant  General  of  the  Court  of  Chancery,  in 
whose  name  it  now  stands. 

The  suit  has  been  upwards  of  15  years  depending. 

After  hearing  one  or  two  arguments,  the  Chancellor  informally 
gave  his  opinion  that  the  Stock  had  belonged  to  the  Colony  of 
Maryland,  a  corporation  created  by  the  Crown  ;  that  this  Cor- 
poration had  been  dissolved,  and  that  the  property  in  question 
accrued  to  the  King  ;  that  the  suit  before  him  was  brought  by  an 
independent  State,  over  which  he  had  no  jurisdiction,  and  for  this 
reason  that  he  must  dismiss  the  Bill,  suggesting  at  the  same  time 
that  he  would  suspend  doing  so,  as  perhaps  his  Majesty  might 
signify  his  pleasure  that  the  Stock  should  be  transferred  to  the 
State  of  Maryland. 

As  soon  as  this  opinion  was  pronounced,  Russell  communicated 
it  to  the  Commissioners  charged  with  the  claims  of  the  American 
Loyalists  who  thereupon  granted  their  certificate  of  the  amount 
of  Russell's  Loss,  which  was  immediately  presented  and  paid  at 
the  Treasury.  This  payment  put  an  end  to  the  only  impediment 
on  the  part  of  the  Trustees  to  the  transfer  of  the  Stock. 

Lord  Baltimore  and  several  others,  who  had  no  connexion  with 
the  Suit,  but  who  lost  Property  in  Maryland,  preferred  claims  for 
a  share  of  this  Stock.  All  these  claimants,  except  the  Assignees 
of  a  Bankrupt  of  the  name  of  Buchanan,  who  are  said  to  have 
neglected  to  ask  compensation  as  American  Loyalists,  have  it  is 
understood  been  compensated  by  the  British  Government,  and 
none  of  the  claims  except  Buchanan's,  are  thought  meritorious  by 
the  Chancellor  ;  Buchanan  is  stated,  to  have  been  tenant  in  com- 
mon with Russell,  of  an  Iron-Work  in  Maryland,  the  whole 

of  which  is  alleged  to  have  been  confiscated  on  account  of  the 
supposed  delinquency  of  Russell,  and  tho'  there  is  really  no  foun- 
dation for  this  allegation,  it  seems  to  have  had  sufficient  influence 

VOL.  III. — 18 


274  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

to  discriminate  the  case  of  Buchanan  from  others.  Except  this 
case  there  is  not  any  known  impediment  against  the  signification 
of  the  King's  pleasure  to  the  Chancellor  that  the  Stock  in  question 
should  be  transferred  to  the  American  Minister  for  the  use  of  the 
State  of  Maryland. 

To  remove  this  impediment,  the  American  Minister  is  ready,  if 
it  shall  be  required,  to  engage  his  influence,  which  he  doubts  not 
would  prove  effectual,  that  a  reasonable  consideration  and  settle- 
ment of  Buchanan's  claim  shall  be  made  ;  or  he  would  himself 
provisionally  settle  the  claim  as  soon  as  the  stock  is  transferred. 
On  the  other  side,  Hanbury,  one  of  the  Trustees,  who  neither 
asked  nor  received  compensation  from  the  British  Government, 
but  relied  upon  the  settlement  with  the  Agent  of  Maryland,  by 
which  his  losses  are  to  be  compensated  as  soon  as  the  stock  is 
transferred  to  the  State,  can  obtain  nothing  until  that  transfer  is 
effected. 

The  Legislature  of  Maryland,  not  feeling  the  force  of  the  Fic- 
tion, by  which  the  property  in  question  is  supposed  to  have  ac- 
crued to  the  Crown,  in  consequence  of  the  dissolution  of  the 
colonial  corporation,  a  dissolution  to  which  the  King  gave  his 
consent  in  the  Treaty  of  Peace,  which  is  understood  to  have 
secured  to  the  State  all  the  Property  belonging  to  the  Colony,  is 
annually  engaged  in  an  Enquiry  respecting  this  Property,  the 
Delays  and  impediments  in  the  recovery  of  which  excite  and  dis- 
seminate dissatisfaction,  and  every  year  do  more  and  more  injury 
to  that  harmony  and  good-will,  which  it  is  so  much  to  be  desired 
may  long  subsist  between  the  two  countries.  There  are,  more- 
over, weighty  and  peculiar  considerations  belonging  to  the  present 
time  which  it  is  hoped  may  have  an  influence  in  bringing  this 
long  depending  claim  to  a  satisfactory  settlement.     July  1800. 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  July  13,  1800. 
Dr.  Sir  : 

.  .  As  I  can  say  nothing  new  about  the  late  changes,  I 
will  say  nothing.  No  one  esteemed  or  respected  Col.  P.  more 
than  I  did  &  do.     I  am  solicitous  to  learn  what  Effects  this  re- 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  275 

moval  will  have  at  the  Eastward,  where  the  Col.  has  many  and 

influential  friends.     .     . 

R.  K. 

P.  S.  Gore  says  you  told  him  that  Hamilton  denies  Sr.  Wm. 
Scott's  Law  respecting  Blockades  ;  I  have  excellent  dispositions 
to  do  the  same,  and  have  given  the  Subject  some  consideration 
but  the  argument  after  all  has  Force.  I  shd.  be  glad  if  H.  wd. 
send  me  a  precis  of  the  Argument  in  opposition. 


F.  Ames  to  R.  King.     (To  William  Payne.) 

Boston,  15th  July,  1800. 
My  good  Friend  : 

It  is  getting  to  be  the  fashion  here  again  to  call  the 
federalists  the  British  faction.  Nothing  can  be  more  false,  for 
though  such  men  respect  the  laws  and  Courts  and  Government  of 
Britain  and  detest  the  arbitrary  tyrants  of  France  yet  they  allow 
no  country  any  kind  of  competition  in  point  of  respect  &  affec- 
tion with  our  own.  You  will  be  surprised  to  hear  that  the  P.  of 
the  U.  S  lately  at  the  Faneuil  Hall  dinner  on  the  visitation  of  the 
Schools  gave  as  a  volunteer  toast  "  The  proscribed  Patriots  Han- 
cock &  Adams."  This  was  well  understood  by  the  Jacobins 
whom  it  will  not  gain,  and  begins  to  be  comprehended  by  a  small 
number  of  correct  thinkers  whom  it  will  not  embolden  to  speak 
out.  Never  was  there  a  more  singular  and  mysterious  state  of 
parties.  The  plot  of  an  old  Spanish  play  is  not  more  complicated 
with  underplot.  I  scarcely  trust  myself  with  the  attempt  to  un- 
fold it. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Legislature  of  this  State  determined 
to  choose  Electors  by  the  Legisle.  (instead  of  the  district  mode 
as  formerly)  with  the  view  to  secure  the  votes  for  ftvo  federal  can- 
didates. The  friends  of  a  certain  great  man  manifested  at  the 
time  a  strong  dislike  of  the  measure  and  the  Jacobin  Gazettes 
poured  forth  accusations  agt.  the  Federalists  as  intriguers  agt. 
that  man  whose  re-election  they  had  secretly  resolved  to  defeat 
by  art  &  management,  though  they  did  not  dare  to  confess  it. 
Since  his  return  to  the  State  the  new  position  of  parties  begins  to 
be  perceived.     Gen.  H.  came  this  way  and  spoke  in  most  compa- 


276  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

nies  without  reserve.  You  know  he  is  the  most  frank  of  men. 
A  real  or  affected  alarm  is  attempted  to  be  spread  &  the  Massa- 
chusetts feelings  are  to  be  called  up  to  defend  their  own  State 
born  patriot.  The  great  man  has  been  south  as  far  as  Alexandria, 
making  his  addressers  acquainted  with  his  revolutionary  merits, 
and  claiming,  almost  in  plain  words  at  New  London,  office  as  the 
only  reward.  Whether  these  answers  and  toasts  are  to  be  con- 
sidered as  the  first  steps  towds.  reviving  the  revolutionary  spirit 
you  must  judge  for  yourself ;  his  language  is  bitter  even  to  out- 
rage and  swearing  and  calling  names  against  many  who  once 
were  and  I  believe  still  are  thought  as  good  as  any  men  in  the 
Country,  he  inveighs  against  the  British  faction  and  the  Essex 
Junto  like  one  possessed.  I  have  not  seen  him  and  from  the 
reception  given  to  one  person  I  do  not  anticipate  any  pleasure 
in  a  visit.  It  would  be  embarrassing  to  know  what  to  say  or 
how  to  behave  in  case  of  rudeness  &  insult  which  I  have 
reason  to  believe  wd.  not  fail  to  be  thrown  in  the  faces 
of  some  persons  unaccustomed  to  such  things.  In  the  mean 
time,  every  exertion  is  making  to  spread  the  passions  that  enrage 
and  almost  madden  him,  and  it  seems  to  be  expected  that  the 
ferment  of  the  people  awe  the  Genl.  Court  in  Nov.  next  to  choose 
Electors  who  will  vote  for  Mr  A  &  throw  away  the  votes 
for  the  other  Candidate.  This  game  will  be  played  in  Connecti- 
cut, N.  Hampshire  and  R.  Island,  and  no  measures  will  be  too 
intemperate  that  tend  to  make  the  Citizens  revolutionary  enough 
to  make  the  man  of  1775  the  man  of  1800.  Whether  this  fervor 
will  melt  the  tender  hearts  of  the  Jacobins  is  not  clear.  At 
present  it  seems  they  are  not  disposed  to  give  up  their  old 
favorite  and  chief  for  a  new  one  whose  repentance  and  conversion 
are  rather  late.  But  I  think  it  probable  that  his  sincerity  will  be 
made  more  &  more  manifest  till  they  perceive  that  he  is  no  longer 
the  supporter  of,  or  supported  by,  the  federalists  Then  perhaps 
they  will  take  him,  if  they  find  they  cannot  carry  their  own  can- 
didate. This  ultimate  resort  to  him  is  the  more  a  matter  of  fair 
calculation  in  this  political  jumble,  as  it  may  then  appear  to  be 
the  best  thing  they  can  do  for  their  own  cause  &  the  most  fatal 
to  that  of  their  adversaries,  as  it  would  insure  their  division  & 
their  discomfiture.  Their  Chief  also  might  be  satisfied  with  a 
place  which  would  confer  the  first  power  and  the  second  rank,. 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  2JJ 

but  without  any  responsibility.  Thus  the  party  and  its'  head 
might  severally  find  their  interests  in  such  an  arrangement.  Col. 
B.  of  New  York  also  is  at  market  and  may  give  his  influence  to  the 
highest  bidder.  Thus  you  see  no  affair  can  be  more  involved  in 
doubt  or  more  dependent  on  intrigue,  caprice  or  accident  I  have 
not  half  disclosed  the  thoughts  that  hurry  along  through  my  brain 
and  leave  as  they  pass  some  very  unpleasant  marks. 

There  is  also  another  consequence  to  be  apprehended  Those 
who  have  need  of  the  aid  that  popular  impulse  can  lend  to  their 
designs  probably  will  know  that  to  command  that  impulse  and  to 
have  all  it's  force  it  is  necessary  to  agitate  the  popular  passions. 
A  cold  multitude  like  a  cold  iron  is  too  hard  for  the  hammers — 
red  hot,  they  are  ductile  to  the  pincers.  How  shall  this  heat, 
this  welding  heat,  be  imparted,  and  kept  up  ?  no  way  is  so  sure 
and  obvious  as  re-exciting  the  rage  against  G.  B.  A  war,  or 
measures  leading  to  war  will  heat  every  body  red  hot.  Whether 
these  steps  are  to  be  taken  in  all  events,  and  of  choice,  or  whether 
they  are  to  be  only  the  expedients  of  necessity  and  are  to  be 
adopted  as  occasions  call  for  them,  I  will  not  say  But  when  a 
man  thinks  no  cause  good  or  safe  without  him,  he  may  possibly 
act  with  as  much  blindness  as  extravagance  when  he  resolves 
rather  to  hazard  the  ships  than  his  captaincy. 

Yr  friend. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  79. 

London,  July  18,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

On  the  20th  of  June  and  probably  before  the  convention  con- 
cluded between  the  French  and  Austrian  Generals  was  known  by 
the  Cabinet,  a  Treaty  between  England  and  Austria  was  signed 
at  Vienna,  in  which  the  former  engages  to  advance  to  the  latter  a 
loan  of  two  millions  Sterling,  to  bear  interest  from  the  expiration 
of  six  months  after  the  conclusion  of  the  war,  and  each  engages 
to  the  other  to  prosecute  the  war  with  vigour,  and  not  to  enter 
into  separate  negotiations,  nor  to  conclude  a  separate  peace 
during  the  continuance  of  the  treaty,  which  for  this  purpose,  is 
limited  to  one  year,  commencing  on  the  1st  of  last  March.  Tho' 
we  are  without  precise  information  of  the  terms  of  Peace,  offered 


278  RUFUS  KING.  [r8oo 

to  the  Emperor,  as  well  as  of  the  tenor  of  his  answer,  it  seems  to 
be  believed  that  the  terms  did  not  differ  materially  from  those  of 
Leoben,  and  that  the  answer  turned  upon  the  Emperor's  engage- 
ments, not  to  treat  separately,  than  upon  the  terms  themselves. 

The  French  continue  to  maintain  their  superiority  upon  the 
Danube,  and  having  obliged  the  Austrians  to  retire  from  Ulm, 
the  greater  part  of  Bavaria,  including  Munich,  has  fallen  into 
their  hands.  We  hear  of  new  armies  to  be  levied  in  the  heredi- 
tary States  of  the  Emperor,  but  the  campaign  seems  to  be  irrecov- 
erable ;  and  from  the  Position  and  apparent  superiority  of  the 
French,  the  Emperor  may  be  obliged  to  make  peace  as  the  sole 
means  of  saving  his  Capital. 

We  have  no  late  intelligence  from  Paris  respecting  our  Envoys. 
Some  weeks  ago  I  entertained  a  hope  that  their  mission  was  near 
to  a  satisfactory  termination.  I  feel  some  concern  on  account  of 
the  Delay  of  this  Event,  which  under  the  present  circumstances 
I  cannot  but  consider  as  desireable. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

July  19.  1800. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

We  all  have  felt  as  much  as  you  can  the  necessity  of  union — 
but  as  in  physics  there  is  a  heterogeneity  which  will  sometimes 
prevent  the  amalgamation  of  substances,  so  in  Morals  which  in- 
clude politics  there  is  often  the  same  difficulty. 

Mr.  Gore  can  give  you  a  complete  view  of  our  affairs  to  the 
time  of  his  departure  since  which  they  have  advanced  in  the  same 
course  according  to  my  expectations — it  was  foreseen  very  early 
that  the  P.  after  departing  from  the  policy  of  98  which  was  the 
Washington  System  wou'd  necessarily  separate  himself  from  the 
principal  advocates  of  that  system  &  that  he  wou'd  indemnify 
himself  for  the  loss  of  their  personal  support  by  recruits  levied 
among  their  opponents — it  is  not  extraordinary  therefore  that  he 
shou'd  now  denounce  the  high  Federalists  as  ''a  Junto  of  incorri- 
gible Aristocrats  "  an  Oligarchy  "  a  british  Faction  &c  "  "  as  a  set 
of  men  more  inimical  to  the  Country  than  the  worst  Democrats 


i8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  279 

or  Jacobins  " — nor  is  it  extraordinary  that  he  should  toast  "  the 
proscribed  patriots  Hancock  &  Adams  "  last  week  in  Fanueil 
Hall. — This  last  incident  &  some  others  of  a  similar  nature  will 
open  the  eyes  of  judicious  &  discerning  men.  Yet  for  a  thou- 
sand reasons  public  opinion  will  come  right  but  slowly  if  at  all. 
Many  will  shut  their  eyes  against  the  light  because  it  wou'd  shew 
them  what  they  do  not  wish  to  see.  I  am  often  struck  with  the 
opposition  that  is  made  to  truth  by  men  who  have  probably  no 
other  motive  than  the  desire  to  shun  an  unpleasant  duty,  which 
the  admission  of  truth  wou'd  impose.  No  tolerable  opinion  can 
yet  be  formed  of  the  issue  of  the  presidential  Election — great 
pains  are  taken  here  by  Mr.  A's  friends  to  engage  the  popular 
passions  on  his  side  with  a  hope  of  influencing  the  Legislature  in 
the  appt.  of  Electors,  &  I  have  no  doubt  Mr.  A  will  favor  the 
election  of  Jefferson  in  preference  to  a  federal  Rival,  as  far  as  he 
dares  :  it  is  too  obvious  that  these  disgraceful  divisions  at  home 
are  an  encouragement  to  foreign  nations  to  treat  us  with  disre- 
spect ;  nothing  however  can  be  more  impolitic  than  it  wou'd  be 
for  any  nation  antijacobinic  to  do  any  thing  which  must  destroy 
the  antijacobinical  party  in  the  U.  S. — this  party  is  undoubtedly 
composed  of  men  who  will  again  govern  after  some  vicissitudes 
unless  events  from  abroad  shou'd  be  so  unpropitious  as  to  divest 
them  of  the  influence  which  they  deservedly  enjoy  among  the 
people. — it  is  among  the  most  consoling  ideas  I  entertain  at  this 
moment  that  you  will  by  doing  ample  justice  to  this  argument  save 
us  from  misfortunes  which  for  many  years  wou'd  be  irreparable. 

Your  faithful  &  affte  friend 
G.  C. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

July  21,  1800. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

It  is  not  because  the  P.  has  done  many  things  which  are  in 

themselves  unwise  that  he  is  strongly  censured  by  certain  men, 

but  it  is  because  those  things  taken  in  connection  with  others  & 

illustrated  by  his  own   comments  prove   that  he   has  in  a  good 

degree  deserted  the  system  which  was  established  by  Washington 

&  which  as  understood  &  practised  has  been  conceived  to  be  wise 

&  just. 


28o  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Departing  himself  from  the  principles  &  policy  of  which  those 
men  are  the  strong  advocates  he  must  separate  from  the  men 
themselves  :  this  general  motive  is  daily  strengthened  by  a  thou- 
sand collateral  ones.  Envy  of  the  fame  of  Washington  &  a  de- 
testation of  the  men  who  are  pretended  to  have  contributed  to  it 
without  believing  it  to  be  merited,  has  operated  too  powerfully  to 
be  concealed.  As  the  most  decided  Federalists  &  most  respecta 
ble  men  are  daily  detached  from  his  train,  their  places  are  filled 
in  the  ratio  of  10  to  1  from  other  sorts  of  men.  The  patriots  of 
75  are  invoked  &  every   one  who  is  the  Enemy  of  his  Enemies 

will  of  course  be  admitted  to  be  his  friend.     It  is  said  at  Q y 

that  Mr.  Jefferson  is  a  wise  &  good  man,  &  if  elected  P.  will  con- 
duct well,  &  the  Country  has  nothing  to  fear  but  from  a  british 
faction  &c.  These  things  are  alarming  to  sensible  men  who  see 
in  them  a  desperate  disposition  &  resentment  as  dangerous  as 
implacable  :  but  the  community  will  learn  to  think  right  but  slowly 
if  at  all.     .     .     . 

It  is  too  soon  to  conjecture  who  will  be  P.     I  will  write  you 
my  opinion  when  I  have  one. 

Yours  fideliter, 

G.  C. 


CHAPTER  XX. 

King  to  Pickering — Unfeigned  Regrets  at  the  Changes  in  the  executive  Depart- 
ments— Though  with  his  Reputation  pure  and  unblemished — His  Son  with 
him— King  to  Adams — Danish  Frigate  resisted  a  Search  of  a  British 
Squadron — May  increase  the  Dissatisfaction  of  Northern  Powers  with 
England — McHenry  to  King — Acknowledges  with  Thanks  Faden's  Collec- 
tion of  Maps  and  Count  Rumford's  Field  Piece — Presidential  Election — 
Bingham  to  King — Duane's  Arrest  ordered  by  the  Senate — Absconded 
until  after  Session  closed — Treated  as  a  Persecuted  Patriot  and  Martyr  to 
Liberty  of  the  Press — Lack  of  Energy  in  the  Government  because  of 
Jacobinical  Principles — Government  moved  to  Washington — A  general 
Peace  would  be  advantageous  to  this  Country — King  to  Secretary  of  State 
— Austria  may  be  obliged  to  treat  with  France— English  Expedition  prob- 
ably to  Belleisle — Search  of  Convoy  under  a  Danish  Frigate — May  lead  to 
important  Consequences — Right  of  Search  cannot  be  submitted  to  by  Neu- 
trals as  a  Principle,  though  perhaps  in  a  modified  Form — Blockade  at 
Cadiz — Troup  to  King — New  York  Legislature  consists  of  the  Essence  of 
Jacobinism — Armstrong  likely  to  be  made  Senator — Hamilton  has  been, 
Burr  is  going  to  the  East. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

London,  July  25,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Before  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  28th  of  May,  we  had 
heard  of  the  changes  in  the  executive  departments  which  it  men- 
tions. So  far  as  you  are  affected  by  them,  I  may  be  permitted  to 
express  my  unfeigned  concern  and  regrets,  in  common  with  your 
numerous  and  respectable  friends  ;  to  whom  it  is  no  small  satis- 
faction, that  your  Reputation,  obtained  and  established  by  many 
years  of  public  service  in  different  employs,  remains  pure  and  un- 
blemished. I  cannot  help  hoping  that  something  will  occur  to 
divert  you  from  the  plan  of  retirement  that  you  speak  of  in  your 
letter  to  your  son,  and  which  may  place  your  family  in  a  situation, 
to  preserve  a  more  easy  intercourse  with  the  society  in  which  it 

281 


282  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

has  been  accustomed  to  live.  It  will  afford  you  great  pleasure  to 
know  that  your  son,  who  is  with  me,  continues  to  preserve,  and 
in  all  respects  to  merit,  the  excellent  character  with  which  he 
arrived  in  this  country  ;  to  an  amiable  disposition,  and  uncom- 
mon diligence  and  attention,  he  adds  a  thirst  for  knowledge,  a 
precision  in  attaining  it,  greater  than  I  recollect  to  have  observed 
in  any  person  of  his  age,  and  such,  should  I  be  so  happy  as  to 
witness  it,  as  shall  reward  all  my  solicitude  concerning  the  Edu- 
cation of  my  own  children. 

I  wished  your  son  to  visit  France,  while  our  Envoys  were  there 
but  on  account  of  his  connexion  with  me,  I  thought  it  expedient 
first  to  consult  them,  which  I  did  thro'  Mr.  Sitgreaves,  who  pro- 
ceeded to  Paris  soon  after  his  arrival  here  ;  not  having  received 
any  reply,  I  have  concluded  that  they  are  not  disposed  to  en- 
courage his  journey.  If  our  misunderstandings  with  France  are 
settled,  he  may  see  Paris,  and  even  make  a  short  tour  in  Germany 
this  autumn  or  next  Spring.  I  shall  take  care  to  provide  him  with 
such  letters  as  would  be  likely  to  increase  the  advantages  of  his 
German  Excursion  ;  as  he  is  destined  for  the  profession  of  Law, 
I  think  he  shd.  not  remain  in  Europe  more  than  a  year  from  this 
time,  and  taking  into  view  the  prospect  of  a  turn  upon  the  Conti- 
nent, I  am  disposed  to  believe  it  will  be  for  his  advantage  to 
remain  abroad  for  that  term. 

With  Sincere  Regards  &c 

Rufus  King. 

Your  son's  constitution  and  health  appear  to  me  to  be  stronger 
and  better  than  when  he  arrived  in  England  ;  both  are  good. 


R.  King  to  Mr.  Adams. 

London,  July  28,  1800. 
Sir: 

I  avail  myself  of  the  opportunity  of  a  vessel  about  sailing  from 
Hull  for  Boston  to  say  that  a  Danish  frigate  with  a  small  number 
of  ships  under  her  convoy,  having  resisted  a  search  attempted  by 
a  squadron  of  British  frigates,  has  been  together  with  the  Mer- 
chant Ships  captured  and  sent  into  an  English  Port,  several  per- 
sons on  each  side  were  killed  in  the  action  between  the  frigates. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  283 

If  Denmark  on  this  occasion  acts  in  concert  with  the  other 
Northern  Powers,  this  encounter  may  be  followed  by  most  im- 
portant consequences.  Some  very  recent  regulations,  adopted  in 
France,  respecting  the  importation  of  English  productions  in 
neutral  bottoms,  are  supposed,  but  with  what  truth  I  am  unable 
to  judge,  to  have  relation  to  the  dissatisfaction  of  the  Northern 
Powers  towards  England. 

The  Armistice  concluded  in  Italy  has  been  extended  to  the 
armies  upon  the  Rhine  and  the  Danube,  and  appearances  are 
strongly  in  favor  of  the  existence  of  a  negotiation  for  Peace. 

I  hear  &  know  nothing  of  our  Envoys, 

With  the  most  perfect  Respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 


J.  McHenry  to  R.  King. 

Baltimore,  Aug.  1,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  your  letter  (duplicate)  dated  23d  April  last, 
advising  me  that  you  have  sent  an  Atlas  collected  by  Faden, 
which  contains  almost  all  the  best  maps  and  latest  published  in 
England  and  upon  the  Continent,  but  that  not  having  received 
Faden's  account  you  cannot  tell  the  cost.  ...  I  beg  you,  Sir, 
to  accept  my  sincere  acknowledgments  for  the  trouble  you  have 
taken  in  causing  the  collection  to  be  made,  .  .  .  having  al- 
ways intended  the  collection  for  my  private  use,  of  course  on  my 
private  account.  I  have  acknowledged  in  an  official  letter,  written 
towards  the  close  of  my  duties  as  Secretary  of  war,  the  receipt  of 
a  model  of  a  Field  piece,  together  with  a  memoir  from  Count 
Rumford,  and  at  the  same  time,  addressed  to  the  Count  himself 
my  considerations  and  thanks.  I  also  have  written  to  you  re- 
specting the  incombustible  cartridge  paper,  one  shipment  of  which, 
owing  to  some  error  in  the  address,  as  was  represented  to  me,  was 
lost  to  the  public,  having  arrived  at  New  York,  been  lodged  in 
the  Custom  house,  remained  there  the  legal  time,  and  then  sold 
as  common  coarse  paper.  The  particulars  being  on  the  files  of 
the  War  office,  I  have  not  now  access  to,  but  take  the  liberty  of 
referring  you  to  my  letters  on  the  subject,  which  I  hope  have  ere 
this  been  received. 


^284  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

The  minds  of  our  citizens,  particularly  of  our  politicians,  are 
now  directed  towards  the  Presidential  election — how  it  will  event- 
uate, is  perhaps  uncertain  ;  a  pretty  general  disposition  seems  to 
be  expressed  by  those  of  a  certain  cast  to  run  Mr.  Adams  and 
General  Charles  Cotesworth  Pinckney  equally  and  as  strongly  as 
possible.  The  other  side  adhere  as  heretofore  to  Mr.  Jefferson. 
Many  of  your  former  friends  are  much  induced  to  wish  ultimate 
success  may  be  the  lot  of  General  Pinckney,  and  for  this  wish 
they  conceive  reasons  to  exist  of  the  greatest  magnitude. 

Your  friend  &  Hble  Servt. 

James  McHenry. 


W.  Bingham  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  August  6th,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

From  the  opinion  you  entertain  of  the  Want  of  Decision  on 
the  part  of  the  Senate,  with  respect  to  Duane,*  you  will  not  be 
surprised  at  the  Result.  After  many  tedious  preparatory  Steps, 
which  seemed  to  argue  a  Doubt  of  the  Competency  of  their 
Powers,  they  at  length  issued  their  Warrant,  &  Duane  absconded. 
Very  little  Exertion  was  made  to  discover  &  arrest  him.  He  ap- 
peared publicly  immediately  after  the  Session  &  assumed  great 
Consequence  from  his  sufferings,  as  a  persecuted  Patriot,  &  Mar- 
tyr to  the  Liberty  of  the  Press.  He  elevated  himself  into  such 
Notice,  as  to  be  repeatedly  toasted  at  the  democratic  Feasts,  on 

*  The  coming  election  of  President  promised  to  be  close  and  might  give  rise 
to  disputes  in  counting  the  electoral  vote.  That  of  Pennsylvania  was  doubtful 
and  dependent  upon  the  mode  of  choosing  the  electors.  A  republican  Gover- 
nor, McKean,  had  just  been  elected  and  the  House  of  Representatives  desired 
to  have  the  electors  chosen  by  general  ticket  in  which  the  Senate  which  was 
federal  refused  to  concur,  for  a  new  election  might  change  this  state  of  the 
things  and  thus  give  Jefferson  the  vote  of  the  State.  To  meet  this  condi- 
tion Senator  James  Ross  of  Penna.  was  instrumental  in  bringing  a  bill  into 
the  Senate  to  decide  disputed  Presidential  elections  and  to  determine  the  legal- 
ity or  illegality  of  the  votes,  by  referring  these  to  a  committee  appointed  by 
ballot  from  both  Houses  of  Congress  who  should  examine  the  ballots  in  secret 
session  and  decide  absolutely  what  States  to  admit  or  reject.  The  bill  was 
passed  through  a  second  reading,  but  immediately  afterwards  it  was  published 
in  full  in  the  Aurora,  with,  comments  by  the  editor  Duane,  showing  that  it 


;8oo]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  285 


the  4th  July.  As  the  sedition  Law  contemplated  this  offense,  & 
attaches  a  Penalty  to  it,  I  thought  it  would  have  been  more  ex- 
pedient to  have  sent  him  to  the  Courts,  which  would  have  effect- 
ually punished  him.  D.  &  C's  Letter  passed  off,  without  any 
Notice  on  the  part  of  the  Senate. 

I  every  day  see  &  lament  the  Want  of  Energy  in  the  Adminis- 
tration of  our  Government,  which  is  rather  an  increasing  Evil,  & 
I  fear,  will  be  the  Cause  of  much  Tribulation  before  it  is  corrected. 
Whilst  the  Nations  of  Europe  are  benefitting  by  the  Excesses  of 
the  French  Revolution,  &  invigorating  their  Executives,  this 
Country  is  about  experiencing  a  greater  degree  of  Relaxation  in 
its  Government,  from  the  prevalence  of  Jacobin  principles,  which 
are  certainly  gaining  Ground  in  many  of  the  States.  The  Party 
which  is  attached  to  them  have  a  better  System  &  more  Industry 
than  their  Opponents  &  from  Congeniality  of  Sentiment,  make 
a  greater  Impression  on  the  lower  Class  of  People.  I  am  appre- 
hensive of  the  Result  of  the  Contest,  which  is  about  taking  place 
for  the  Election  of  a  President.  I  flatter  myself  in  its  terminat- 
ing favorably  :  but  there  can  be  no  well  grounded  Hope,  whilst 
one  Party  is  disorganized,  &  the  other  acts  as  a  firm  &  united 
Phalanx. 

The  Government  has  already  removed  to  Washington,  which  I 
hope  will  be  able  conveniently  to  accommodate  its  different  De- 
partments. I  shall  attend  the  approaching  Session,  but  not  after- 
wards ;  having  long  since  determined  on  my  Resignation,  which 
was  not  essentially  influenced  by  a  Change  in  the  local  Position 
of  Congress. 

would  enable  the  committee  to  disqualify  some  of  the  electors  for  reasons  which, 
either  technical  or  other  they  might  deem  sufficient  to  accomplish  their  purpose, 
and  because  the  bill  itself  had  been  drafted  in  a  caucus  of  federal  members, 
secretly  convened,  and  possibly  controlled  by  a  portion  of  the  members.  The 
Senate,  under  the  influence  of  the  federal  members,  deeming  this  a  breach  of 
its  privileges  and  the  comments  "  false,  defamatory,  scandalous  and  malicious," 
summoned  Duane  before  it  and  tho'  he  at  first  appeared,  he  finally,  by  the  ad- 
vice of  his  counsel,  refused  to  plead  upon  the  merits  of  the  case,  having  been 
denied  the  right  to  question  the  power  of  the  Senate  to  pass  such  a  measure. 
In  consequence  he  was  found  guilty  of  contempt  and  a  warrant  was  ordered  to 
be  drawn  for  his  arrest.  He  however  avoided  its  service  by  absenting  himself 
until  the  close  of  the  Session,  and  thus  the  matter  passed  over.  The  Bill 
passed  the  Senate,  but  not  the  House.  "  D.  &  C.'s  letter"  was  that  sent  to- 
Duane  by  his  Counsel  Dallas  &  Cooper,  upon  which  he  acted. — Ed. 


286  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Should  a  general  Peace  take  place  in  Europe,  this  Country  will 
experience  great  advantages  from  the  new  &  more  orderly  State 
of  Things.  At  present  the  Minds  of  our  People  are  as  much 
heated  by  the  Events  which  are  passing  in  Europe,  as  if  they  were 
engaged  in  the  Contest.  We  seem  to  have  less  National  Pride  & 
Affection  than  any  other  People.  However  there  appears  to  be 
some  reason  to  suppose  that  a  maritime  War  may  exist,  after  the 
Continental  Powers  have  settled  their  present  Differences  as  a 
jealousy  towards  G.  Britain,  from  its  naval  Preponderance,  seems 
to  be  taking  possession  of  some  of  the  Northern  Powers. 

Our  Friend  Col.  Pickering  has  removed  to  Easton  &  is  prepar- 
ing to  make  a  bold  Incursion  into  the  Wilderness  &  there  estab- 
lish his  Family.  His  Lands  are  good  &  well  situated  &  I  have 
no  doubt  will  fully  recompence  the  Labor  &  Expence  attending 
their  Improvement.  He  will  add  great  Value  to  his  property 
from  his  personal  Residence  as  he  will  attract  a  great  Number  of 
Settlers,  who  will  be  induced  to  give  a  Preference  to  his  Neigh- 
borhood.    .     .     . 

With  sincerity  &  Esteem 

I  am 

Yours  &c 
Wm.  Bingham. 

R.  King  to   Secretary   of  State. 

No.  80. 

London,  August  6,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  armistice  in  Italy  has  been  extended  to  the  Rhine  and  the 
Danube,  and  notwithstanding  the  recent  Convention  between 
Austria  and  England  that  neither  Power  during  its  continuance 
shall  treat  separately,  should  England  show  a  backwardness  to 
negotiate,  Austria  may  be  obliged  to  conclude  a  separate  Treaty. 
Some  persons  believe  that  a  negotiation  for  a  general  peace  has 
been  begun,  while  others  suppose  that  England  will  endeavor  to 
induce  Austria  to  try  one  more  campaign  before  she  sincerely  ac- 
quiesces in  another  attempt  to  negotiate.  The  English  forces 
assembled  at  Minorca  are  supposed  to  be  12  or  15  thousand 
strong  ;  these  would  probably  be  employed  with  the  Austrians  in 


1800]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  287 

Italy,  should  the  war  continue.  An  Expedition  of  considerable 
force  is  sailing  from  the  English  Ports,  which  from  the  manner  of 
its  equipments  is  conjectured  to  be  going  against  Belleisle,  an 
Island  that  in  possession  of  the  English  would  enable  them  to 
interrupt  the  communication  between  Brest  and  the  French  Ports 
to  the  south  of  it,  and  from  whence  Brest  receives  the  chief  sup- 
plies for  the  support  of  its  marine. 

A  small  Squadron  of  English  frigates  having  fallen  in  with  a 
Danish  frigate  bound  to  the  Mediterranean  with  several  Danish 
merchantmen  under  her  convoy,  insisted  upon  searching  them  ; 
which  being  refused  a  battle  ensued  that  ended  in  the  capture  of 
the  Danish  frigate  and  the  ships  under  her  convoy,  the  whole  of 
which  has  been  sent  into  the  Downs. 

The  Danish  Government  has  been  accustomed  in  former  wars 
to  send  convoys  with  her  merchantmen,  and  has  never  acquiesced, 
as  is  alledged,  in  the  claim  of  the  Belligerents  to  search  them. 
Immediately  after  the  capture  of  the  two  Swedish  Envoys  in  1798, 
Denmark  explained  her  sentiments  upon  this  subject  to  England, 
in  opposition  to  which  England  maintained  the  claim,  and  as  I 
hear  in  March  last  year,  gave  notice  at  Copenhagen  that  she 
would  enforce  it. 

The  capture  of  this  convoy  has  excited  considerable  attention, 
and  if  I  am  not  mistaken  some  inquietude  ;  a  Fleet  of  English 
merchantmen  about  sailing  for  the  Baltic  has  been  stopped,  and 
a  person  sent  to  Copenhagen  to  ascertain  the  view  of  its  Govern- 
ment. 

It  was  at  first  supposed  that  a  league  to  restrain  the  maritime 
pretensions  and  practices  of  England,  had  been  formed  between 
the  four  Northern  Powers,  and  that,  for  the  purpose  of  bringing 
the  Question  to  issue,  this  convoy  had  been  sent  with  express 
orders  to  the  Commander  of  the  frigate  to  resist  with  force  any 
attempt  to  search  them.  At  present  it  is  thought  that  no  such 
league  has  been  concluded,  on  the  contrary  that  the  most  perfect 
harmony  does  not  exist  between  Denmark  &  Russia,  and  tho' 
the  capture  may  lead  to  important  consequences  with  regard  to 
the  commercial  intercourse  between  England  and  the  North  of 
Europe,  that  the  sending  of  this  convoy  was  not  a  measure  con- 
certed between  Denmark  &  any  other  Power. 

In  a  late  argument  in  the  Swedish  case  before  the  Commission- 


288  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

ers  of  appeal  in  Prize  cases,  it  was  asserted  by  the  King's  advocate 
that  we  had  given  orders  to  our  ships  of  war  to  permit  the  search 
of  our  merchant  ships  under  their  convoy.  I  have  been  asked 
whether  that  assertion  is  correct  ;  but  not  having  received  any 
such  information,  I  have  not  been  able  to  satisfy  the  enquiry. 
Many  modern  Treaties  and  several  of  ours  contain  a  stipulation 
that  the  Presence  of  a  national  ship  of  war  shall  exempt  the  ves- 
sels under  her  convoy  from  search.  However  correct  the  general 
principle  may  be  upon  which  England  founds  the  right  of  search 
and  capture,  the  execution  of  this  right  for  reasons  heretofore 
suggested  is  in  general  so  partial  to  the  Belligerent  and  so  injuri- 
ous and  often  oppressive  to  neutrals,  that  it  seems  to  me  impossi- 
ble that  the  latter  can  submit  to  it,  if  they  are  able  to  devise  any 
prudent  means  of  avoiding  it.  It  was  from  this  conviction  among 
other  causes  that  the  project  of  the  armed  neutrality  was  resorted 
to.  However  desirable,  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  this  system 
can  never  become  general,  and,  without  it,  it  will  never  afford  the 
security  it  aims  at. 

But  may  not  a  more  limited,  and  under  equitable  Regulations 
a  more  unexceptionable  and  practical  Plan  be  devised  for  the  pro- 
tection of  the  innocent  trade  of  neutrals  by  national  convoys  ?  And 
is  it  certain  that  England  may  not  be  willing  to  agree  to  it?  The 
Doctrine  that  free  bottoms  make  free  goods,  is  in  direct  opposition 
to  the  ancient  Law,  that  war  gives  the  Belligerent  a  right  to  seize 
the  goods  of  his  Enemy,  wherever  he  meets  with  them  without 
the  Territory  of  his  friends  ;  but  as  war  does  not  give  to  the 
Belligerent  a  Right  to  seize  the  goods  of  his  friends,  is  he  not  re- 
quired by  the  principles  of  Justice  to  agree  in  such  equitable  Regu- 
lations, as  by  distinguishing  the  goods  of  a  friend  from  those  of 
an  Enemy,  shall  secure  his  friend  from  the  injuries  to  which  he 
otherwise  might  be  exposed,  and  does  not  the  courtesy  and  mu- 
tual convenience  of  nations  engage  them  to  respect  each  other's 
word  in  matters  of  equal  or  superior  moment  ? 

Some  Americans  recently  arrived  from  France,  and  who  pretend 
to  know  what  is  passing  between  our  Envoys  &  the  French  Gov- 
ernment, state  that  the  negotiation  a  few  days  ago  was  on  the 
point  of  breaking  off,  but  that  it  has  been  resumed  &  may  yet  at- 
tain a  satisfactory  termination  ;  tho'  I  am  not  able  from  any  in- 
formation I  have  on  the  subject  to  appreciate  the  credit  due  to 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  289 

this  Report,  the  continuance  of  the  Envoys  at  Paris  gives  me  hopes 
that  they  will  not  return  without  finishing  the  business  of  the 
Mission. 

Having  heard  of  the  capture  of  several  of  our  vessels  by  British 
Cruizers  both  in  the  American  and  European  seas  under  pretence 
of  a  breach  of  the  blockade  of  Cadiz,  I  wrote  a  note  to  Lord 
Grenville  on  the  10th  of  July  representing  this  interruption  of  our 
Trade,  and  observing  that  while  Lord  St.  Vincent  commanded  be- 
fore Cadiz,  and  the  Spanish  Fleet  was  in  that  Port,  our  Ships,  tho' 
strictly  visited,  were  permitted  to  enter  it  ;  that  since  Lord  Keith 
had  succeeded  to  the  command  and  the  Spanish  fleet  had  left  the 
Port,  our  vessels  had  in  some  instances  been  turned  away,  and  in 
others  captured  ;  that  as  the  usual  notice  of  the  existence  of  the 
Blockade  of  Cadiz  had  not  been  given,  I  inferred  that  none  had 
been  instituted,  and  requested  that  orders  might  be  given  to  put 
an  end  to  the  abuse  arising  from  the  supposed  Blockade  of  that 
Port.  I  have  received  no  answer  to  this  note,  but  have  heard  that 
a  vessel  taken  on  her  passsage  to  Cadiz,  and  lately  sent  into  an 
outport,  has  been  released. 

With  perfect  Esteem  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  9  Augt.  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  There  is  no  doubt  that  some  honest  Jacobin  will  be 
appointed  to  succeed  Lawrance  (as  U.  S.  Senator).  Our  Legis- 
lature now  consists  of  the  very  essence  of  Jacobinism.  It  is  not 
unlikely  that  Armstrong  will  be  appointed,  who  being  weary  of 
waiting  for  federal  honors  has  at  length  declared  that  he  has  dis- 
covered that  he  has  long  worn  his  political  coat  wrong  side  out, 
and  that  he  now  wears  the  right  side  out.  He  has  lately  published 
some  of  the  most  virulent  and  Jacobinical  pieces  agt.  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  government  and  particularly  agt.  General  Washing- 
ton, Hamilton,  Jay,  Gouverneur  Morris,  &c,  that  have  made  their 
appearance  for  a  long  time.  I  never  have  believed  and  I  never 
shall  believe,  after  his  attempt  to  create  a  mutiny  in  the  army  at 
the  close  of  the  Revolutionary  war,  that  he  has  a  heart  fit  to  be 

VOL   III — 19 


29O  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

trusted  with  any  important  interests  of  his  country.     I  allude  to 
his  celebrated  address  to  the  Soldiers.*     .     .     . 

Hamilton  lately  returned  from  a  tour  through  the  Eastern  States, 
where  he  was  very  attentively  and  affectionately  received.  It  is 
said  the  most  honorary  dinner  ever  known  in  Boston  was  given  to 
him  by  the  Magistrates. 

Burr,  whom  Church  calls  our  chief  Consul,  is  in  very  high  glee  ; 
He  entertains  much  company  and  with  elegance.  I  understand 
he  is  in  a  day  or  two  going  to  the  Eastward,  and,  I  presume,  on 
business  of  the  ensuing  election.  He  seems  from  his  manners  to 
be  very  sanguine  of  success.     .     . 

Yours,  R.  T. 

*  Newburg  Letters. 


CHAPTER   XXI. 

Cabot  to  King — Effect  of  Election  of  Adams  or  Pinckney  or  Jefferson — Pinck- 
ney's  Election  would  array  true  Men  on  his  Side — Hamilton  thinks  Jefferson 
will  be  chosen — King  to  President  Adams — Envoys'  Negotiation  withFrance 
probably  broken  off — Ames  to  King — Shallow  Reason,  Impulse,  Caprice 
and  Prejudice  for  Mission  to  France — Unless  Federalists  unite  and  run  the 
two  federal  Candidates,  Jefferson  will  be  elected — Our  Government  is  re- 
publican, our  Opinions  democratic — Adams's  Ground  the  same  now  as 
before — Federalists  never  knew  where  they  were — Clamor  loud  he  is  to  be 
sacrificed — Unless  Massachusetts  Electors  vote  for  Adams  and  General 
Pinckney  both,  Jefferson  will  be  elected — Adams  acts  as  if  he  did  not  hate 
him — Speculations  on  European  Affairs  as  affecting  those  of  U.  S. — King 
to  Pickering — Cannot  explain  late  Occurrences  at  Home — Choice  of  Elec- 
tors in  New  England — May  not  the  Issue  of  the  Mission  to  France  influ- 
ence this — Deprecates  the  Policy  of  exciting  Prejudices  and  Passions  of 
New  England — Liston's  Explanations  such  as  he  expected — To  Secretary 
of  State — Negotiations  between  France  and  Austria  going  on,  both  recruit- 
ing their  Armies — Troup  to  King — Adams's  Letter  to  French  Consul — 
Jefferson  attacked  on  Ground  of  his  religious  Opinions — Burr's  Return 
from  the  East — Democrats  say  he  is  to  run  with  Jefferson. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Augt.  9,  1800. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  newspapers  will  give  you  some  ideas  of  our  politicks 
&  I  cou'd  give  you  little  more  than  conjectures  if  I  were  to  add  to 
them.  Mr.  Gore  observed  before  he  left  us  that  the  separation  of 
the  P.  from  his  former  friends  wou'd  detach  from  us  many  good 
men.  This  is  already  verified  ;  we  have  the  unpopular  side  &  you 
know  how  few  men  are  willing  to  be  ranged  on  that  side  ;  I  think 
however  we  are  strong  in  our  principles,  patriotic  in  our  views  & 
unanswerable  in  our  arguments.  The  P.,  I  am  told,  acts  like  him- 
self ;  he  sometimes  praises  us  in  strong  terms  ;  at  others  he 
denounces  us  in  a  manner  that  outrages  all  decency.  Altho'  I 
shun  politicks  as  much  as  I  can  &  wish  to  avoid  them  altogether, 
yet  you  see  I  use  the  terms  us  &  we,  for  I  am  made  one  of  the 

291 


292  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

"  damned  Faction  "  by  the  opinions  I  am  known  to  maintain.  In 
looking  forward  to  the  election  of  President  there  is  obviously 
such  a  balance  of  advantages  &  disadvantages  in  each  possible 
issue  as  makes  one  almost  at  ease  about  it  :  if  Adams  prevails 
it  may  be  expected  that  he  will  persist  in  strengthening  his  popu- 
larity by  sacrificing  the  old  federal  cause  &  all  its  advocates  who 
shall  have  virtue  enough  to  adhere  to  it,  to  their  opponents  :  if 
Pinckney  shou'd  be  elected  he  will  have  the  cordial  support  of 
those  only  who  are  now  detached  from  Mr.  Adams,  but  he  will  be 
feebly  supported  by  Mr.  Adams's  present  adherents  &  by  many 
of  them  he  will  be  abandoned  &  probably  opposed.  If  Jefferson 
is  elected  the  Federalists  will  be  reunited  &  will  be  perhaps  suf- 
ficiently powerful  to  deter  him  from  Jacobin  excesses.  On  the 
whole  I  see  but  one  reason  to  wish  strongly  for  the  success  of 
Pinckney  &  that  is  the  true  men  will  then  be  arrayed  on  the  side 
of  the  Chief  of  the  Nation  under  the  banner  of  the  Constitution  : 
they  will  be  in  the  places  where  the  wise  &  good  ought  always  to 
be  found,  &  if  they  can  not  do  all  the  good  they  wish  &  the 
Country  needs,  yet  ultimately  they  will  succeed  there  if  it  is 
possible  for  them  to  succeed  anywhere. 

Meanwhile  let  us  hope  that,  while  we  encounter  these  difficul- 
ties incidental  to  the  nature  of  our  Govt.,  no  nation  which 
opposes  the  spirit  of  Jacobinism  will  contribute  to  its  establish- 
ment here.  This  may  be  done  or  prevented  in  a  great  degree  by 
the  policy  G.  B.  shall  pursue.  The  blind  animosity  of  our  people 
to  G.  B.  is  a  powerful  instrument  for  Ambition  to  work  with. 
Men  who  know  its  injustice  will  nevertheless  use  it  &  if  we  engage 
in  hostilities  the  Clamourers  against  G.  B.  will  be  the  idols  of 
popular  worship  &  those  who  have  resisted  this  madness  will  be 
disgraced.  It  is  so  manifestly  for  the  interest  of  G.  B.  to  prevent 
if  possible  this  disaster  to  the  party  here,  whose  policy  must  be 
always  anti-gallican,  that  it  wou'd  seem  to  reflect  on  the  sagacity 
of  the  British  Cabinet  to  doubt  their  seeing  it. 

While  I  am  writing,  a  letter  is  put  into  my  hand  from  Hamilton 
which  contains  the  information  he  has  collected  concerning  the 
election — from  all  which  it  is  probable  that  Jefferson  will  be 
President — but  it  is  too  soon  to  judge  satisfactorily. 

Yours  aff'y  &  faithfully, 

G.  C. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  293 

R.  King  to  His  Excellency  John  Adams. 

London,  August  11,  1800. 
Sir: 

In  the  Paris  papers  of  the  6th  instant  is  an  article  respecting 
the  American  negotiation  that  is  drawn  up  with  more  care  and 
greater  knowledge  of  the  subject  than  is  usual  in  a  mere  Para- 
graph of  the  Editors  ;  and  when  considered  in  connexion  with  the 
present  state  of  the  French  Press,  and  the  rumours  of  a  like  tenor 
that  have  prevailed  during  the  last  week,  leads  to  the  belief  that 
our  mission  has  failed.  I  inclose  the  article,  the  authenticity  of 
which  will  be  ascertained  in  the  course  of  a  few  days.  If  the 
negotiation  is  broken  off  upon  the  points,  and  in  the  manner  rep- 
resented, we  can  be  at  no  loss  for  the  object,  and  in  order  to  give 
it  a  greater  chance  of  success,  I  shall  not  be  disappointed  in  hear- 
ing that  Commissioners  will  be  sent  to  the  United  States  as  soon 
as  our  Envoys  leave  France. 

With  the  most  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


F.  Ames  to  R.  King. 

August  19,  1800. 

I  put  myself  prodigiously  at  my  ease  in  writing  to  you,  and  as 
I  have  a  knack  of  flattering  myself,  I  make  it  out  that  you  will 
not  dispute  my  claim.  It  is  exceedingly  convenient  to  me  to 
ascertain  my  footing — for  I  struggle  with  my  indolence  before  I 
can  undertake  to  write  at  all,  and  I  believe  never  fail  to  write  so 
lackadaysically  as  to  convince  my  correspondent  that  I  have  not 
gained  the  victory. 

I  had  some  thoughts  of  writing  to  Gore,  but  perhaps  he  is  taken 
and  at  this  moment  professing  to  love  soup  maigre  better  than  roast 
beef.  I  ought  and  intended  to  write  to  Payne  to  whom  I  owe  every 
sentiment  that  belongs  of  right  to  a  prodigiously  clever  fellow.  But 
I  am  sure  he  w'd  curse  my  politics  and  wish  from  his  soul  I  could 
write  the  news  from  Boston.  He  must  excuse  me.  The  Boston 
Fair  are  not  communicative  to  me  and  for  my  life  I  could  not  fill 
a  single  page  with  anecdote  or  scandal,  which  latter  I  know  he 
abominates.      Therefore   it   is,   excuse    me,   Hopson's  choice    to 


294  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

write  to  you,  which  I  mention  as  an  excuse  for  obtruding  a  letter 
so  unlike,  as  I  foresee  this  will  be,  to  any  other  that  a  statesman 
will  receive.  Our  affairs  are  so  much  influenced  by  tattle  and 
vulgar  prejudice  that  nothing  w'd  more  surely  mislead  you 
than  the  position  of  correct  political  principles  and  the  proper 
inferences  from  them.  Therefore  your  very  wise  political  cor- 
respondents will  tell  you  anything  sooner  than  the  truth.  For 
not  one  of  them  will  look  for  anything  but  profound  reasons 
of  state  at  the  bottom  of  the  odd  superstructure  of  parties  here. 
There  is  nothing  of  the  kind  at  the  bottom.  There  is  indeed  a 
good  deal  of  it  on  the  outside.  In  other  words,  no  such  reasons 
are  motives,  they  are  pretexts.  Calculations  of  prudence  and 
almost  the  gift  of  prophetic  foresight  are  offered  as  a  vindication 
by  some  apologists  for  the  Mission  to  France,  now  established 
and  glorified  by  Buonaparte's  victories.  Others  pretend  that  the 
exorbitant  Naval  power  of  G.  B.  is  an  evil,  &  a  close  alliance 
with  France  the  remedy.  Never  was  there  a  time  when  such 
shallow  reasons  were  imagined  to  vindicate  a  thing  that  did  not 
originate  from  any  reason,  but  sudden  impulse,  caprice  &  preju- 
dice. You  are  no  stranger  to  multitudes,  nor  to  the  things  that 
give  them  their  creeds  &  their  passions.  Judge  how  difficult 
it  is  for  men  who  never  once  suspected  that  they  are  not  of  the 
multitude  to  analyse  principles,  measures  and  characters,  and  who 
cannot  perceive  that  they  ought  not  to  stir  when  their  leader  has 
deserted  them.  It  is  incomprehensible  to  them  that  any  Federal- 
ists should  pretend  that  the  7iew  ground  he  has  taken  is  not  the 
same  he  occupied  before  he  openly  accused  his  friends  and 
awkwardly  tried  to  win  his  adversaries.  They  never  knew  where 
they  were,  they  only  knew  who  was  with  them  and  before  them. 
This  confusion  of  ideas,  so  natural  to  those  who  have  but  few  of 
them,  has  animated  the  State  street  patriots  of  our  Metropolis.. 
I  mean  nothing  disrespectful  to  them  in  the  observation,  for  I 
think  them  clever  &  well  informed.  But  though  abundantly  cap- 
able of  reasoning,  they  are  like  seven  eighths  of  mankind,  too 
much  at  ease  to  submit  to  so  irksome  a  task.  Opinions  that  lie 
on  the  surface  are  better  than  such  as  are  in  the  mine,  and  are  to 
be  had  only  by  hard  digging.  Popular  opinions  too  defend 
themselves  and  give  fees  to  their  advocates.  But  such  as  are 
sound  and  profound  require  labor  to  find  and  Courage,  Patience 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  295 

and  Talent  to  maintain.     Boston,  like  the  rest   of  the  world,  is 
impressible  and  is  impressed. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  our  Legislature  was  strongly  disposed  to 
chose  Electors  to  vote  for  Adams  &  P.  But  since  a  certain 
Great  Man  returned  from  the  seat  of  Gov't,  the  clamor  has  been 
loud  that  he  is  to  be  sacrificed  and  tricked  out  of  his  place. 
The  Essex  Junto  is  cursed  and  lampooned.  Now,  what 
is  to  be  the  consequence  ?  apparently  this.  Unless  South  Caro- 
lina should  be  Federal,  (and  an  effort  is  making  to  elect  a 
federal  State  Legislature,)  Jefferson  will  have  a  majority  and  be 
chosen.  Unless  the  Federalists  unite  and  run  the  two  Federal 
Candidates,  Jeff:  will  have  more  than  either  of  them,  though  per- 
haps not  a  majority.  On  the  whole  it  is  highly  probable  that 
Jeff :  will  be  elected.  Every  thing  smoaks  with  political  fermen- 
tation in  the  U.  S.  You  must  watch  and  pray  for  the  country, 
that  we  may  not  have  a  war  with  G.  B.  which  would  augment 
the  danger  of  revolution  exceedingly,  both  to  G.  B.  &  the  U.  S. 
The  former  may  be  again  in  a  state  to  dread  this  danger  more 
than  it  does  at  present.  The  U.  S.  have  yet  to  learn  almost  all 
that  experience  can  teach.  Our  Govt,  is  republican,  our 
opinions  democratic.  The  latter  must  rise  or  the  former  will 
sink. 

Yrs.  truly, 

Incog. 

2d  Sheet. 

August  26,  1800. 

The  friends  of  a  certain  great  man  are  trying  to  rouse  the  revo- 
lutionary spirit,  to  awaken  personal  local  party  and  national 
prejudices  to  secure  for  him  the  concentration  of  all  the  chances 
of  the  political  game.  It  is  obvious  that  wd.  make  the  chance  of 
the  Federal  Cause  the  worse  and  his  not  the  better  unless  by  some 
miracle  people  who  do  not  prefer  him  wd.  act  just  as  if  they  did. 
Inclinations  are  not  to  be  thus  put  in  requisition,  and  so  many 
from  their  souls  dislike  and  dread  the  caprices,  prejudices  and  re- 
sentments which  seem  to  have  acquired  a  despotic  power  over 
him,  that  it  is  impossible  to  extort  a  vote  from  them  in  favor  of 
such  a  man  unless  by  faithfully  complying  with  the  agree??ient 
fairly  and  equally  to  vote  for  the  other.     No  doubt  you  will  have 


296  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

read  Harper's  letter  to  his  Constituents.  In  that  is  stated  the 
vote  to  be  given  by  the  Federalists.  But  every  intrigue  and  prob- 
ably rage  enough  to  spoil  it  will  be  practised  to  gain  over  our 
Legislature  which  is  to  meet  on  the  first  of  November  to  choose 
Electors  who  will  vote  for  Mr.  A.  and  throw  away  their  votes  for 
some  other  person  than  General  P.  This  will  be  known  before- 
hand and  will  inevitably  divert  some  southern  votes  from  Mr.  A. 
which  wd.  otherwise  be  given  to  him.  Thus  Mr.  Jeff's  election 
seems  to  be  almost  certain  unless  the  Electors  will  stand  to  the 
agreement  made  at  Philadelphia  to  vote  for  both.  If  Gov.  Mc- 
Kean  and  Dallas  shd.  effect  their  design  of  sacking  a  Legislature, 
all  Pennsylvania  will  be  thrown  into  that  scale.  Mr.  Jeff,  will 
have  nearly  70  on  the  best  calculation  that  we  can  make,  and  any 
dependence  on  So.  Carolina  is  very  precarious.  If  the  coast 
should  be  as  bad  as  we  apprehend,  all  hopes  of  seeing  the  coun- 
try safe  in  the  enjoyment  of  property  or  constitution  must  ulti- 
mately rest  in  the  spirit  and  union  of  men  of  principle.  The 
measures  pursued  by  the  friends  of  Mr.  A.  tend  to  dissipate  this 
last  hope.  On  the  contrary  the  compromise  to  vote  for  Gen.  P. 
and  Mr.  A.  affords  a  good  ground  for  harmony  now,  acquiescence 
hereafter  in  the  success  of  either  Mr.  P.  or  Mr.  A.,  and  energy  and 
zeal  if  Mr.  J.  shd.  be  elected.  Therefore  on  the  whole  I  cannot 
but  think  that  a  truth  so  obvious  so  deeply  important  will  extort  re- 
spect and  obedience  from  our  Legislature  and  that  they  will 
choose  Electors  who  will  vote  for  both.  Even  Mr.  A.'s  friends 
wd.  see,  if  rage  would  let  them  see  anything,  that  by  pursuing  the 
object  of  throwing  away  P.'s  votes  they  will  infallibly  exclude 
Mr.  A.  It  is  intended  that  the  race  shall  be  a  fair  one,  all  the 
Federal  Electors  voting  for  both,  thus  leaving  it  to  chance  and  to 
Congress  to  decide  which  shall  be  President.  But  if  one  of  the 
two  will  persist  in  playing  foul,  the  consequence  must  be  that  his 
chance  will  be  made  as  bad  as  it  ought  for  that  reason  to  be. 
Whether  Mr.  A.  is  willing  to  be  Vice  under  Jeff  is  a  problem  and 
opinions  in  respect  to  its  solution  are  various.  He  acts  as  if  he 
did  not  hate  nor  dread  Jeff — and  it  is  clear  that  his  friends  pursue 
a  course  in  conversation  and  in  the  papers  which  can  help  no- 
body's cause  but  Jefferson's.  Indeed  the  Adams  writers  offer  to 
fraternise  with  Jacobins  whom  they  denominate  old  friends,  and 
openly  rail   agt.   the   "  exclusive    Federalists,"    "  Hamiltonians," 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  297 

"Essex  Junto,"  "  Royalists,"  "British  Partizans,"  as  they  affect 
to  call  the  men  who  stick  to  the  good  old  principles  and  old 
cause.  These  facts,  some  queer  toasts  and  a  number  of  whis- 
per'd  anecdotes  corroborate  but  fall  short  of  fully  proving  the 
opinion  that  a  coalition  has  been  made  and  that  if  Mr.  A.  shd.  be 
only  Vice  it  wd.  be  revenge  if  not  victory. 

The  tendency  of  our  Politics  to  intestine  troubles  is  obvious. 
These  wd.  spring  from  the  same  causes  that  lead  to  a  British 
War.  Good  Lord  defend  us  from  both.  Buonaparte's  successes 
are  believed  here  to  produce  coldness  towds.  promising  our  En- 
voys compensation.  Very  good.  Will  Austria  make  peace  ?  If 
the  Minister  shd.  be  inquisitive  to  know  my  opinion,  which  may 
possibly  be  the  case,  you  may  tell  him  not  to  be  afraid,  but  to 
fight  on  alone  till  France  is  exhausted,  weary  and  humbled.  That 
the  cause  of  the  war  was  the  exorbitant  power  of  France,  that  her 
increase  of  territory,  the  subjugation  of  Spain,  Italy,  Holland, 
Belgium  and  Switzerland  and  the  exclusion  of  all  spirit  from  her 
people  but  the  military  and  the  enthusiastic  exaltation  of  that,  are 
so  many  aggravations  of  the  original  evil,  and  that  of  course  it  is 
foolish  to  consider  the  remedy  as  springing  out  of  the  monstrous 
growth  of  the  evil  ;  that  a  state  of  danger  shd.  become  a  state  of 
security  merely  by  the  augmentation  of  the  danger.  Therefore 
he  must  war  till  peace  is  safe  and  tell  his  Englishmen  to  pay  and 
fight  on  till  that  time  comes  without  ever  stopping  to  think  or 

enquire  when  that  will  be. 

Yours  truly, 

Incog. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

London,  Sept.  2,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  not  received  a  line  from  the  Department  of  State  since 
you  left  it,  which  I  the  more  regret,  as  every  moment  is  not  alike 
favorable  to  the  satisfactory  settlement  of  the  points  to  be  adjusted 
with  this  Country.  Without  your  late  letters  (that  of  the  26  of 
June  is  the  last)  I  could  not  have  had  an  adequate  notion  of  the 
extraordinary  situation  of  our  Government  and  even  with  this 
aid,  I  am  at  a  loss  to  explain  some  occurrences  of  a  late  date.     Is 


298  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

it  intended  to  agitate  and  inflame  the  Prejudices  and  passions  of 
New  England  for  the  purpose  of  awing  the  Legislature  in  the 
choice  of  Electors,  and  these  in  their  choice  of  President  ?  It 
will  not  be  difficult  to  awaken  resentments,  that  the  impolicy- 
takes  no  pains  to  extinguish;  but  must  not  the  success  of  the  pro- 
ject in  a  great  measure  depend  upon  the  issue  of  the  mission  to 
France  ?  and  is  there  ever  a  Probability  that  this  will  prove  satis- 
factory ?  Difficulties  have  been  opposed  to  the  Envoys,  which, 
if  persisted  in,  are  insurmountable.  It  is  true  they  remain  at 
Paris  still,  and  we  ought  to  conclude  from  hence,  that  they  do 
not  wholly  despair  of  success.  But  should  N.  E.  be  brought  to 
refuse  her  votes  to  any  but  native  Patriots,  what  will  this  accom- 
plish ?    According  to  present  appearances  it  will  inevitably  secure 

the  election  to  the  Virginia  Candidate  !  .  .  . 

R.  King. 

P.  S.  Mr.  Liston's  explanations  are  such  as  I  expected  :  and 
I  have  no  doubt  are  perfectly  correct.  Still  he  is  not  free  from 
the  charge  of  extreme  indiscretion.  Such  letters  should  by  men, 
situated  as  he  is,  never  be  written;  and  no  letters  except  those  of 
business  should  be  written  to  such  men  as  his  Baltimore  corre- 
spondent. Don't  consider  rny  solicitude  and  unfeigned  esteem  for 
your  retired  situation  as  affectation  or  words  of  course.  You  can- 
not be  ignorant  of  the  respectful  attachment  of  your  numerous 
friends  ;  and  after  what  has  happened,  it  seems  to  me  that  it 
would  be  false  delicacy  in  them  to  suppress  or  in  you  to  miscon- 
strue the  assurances  of  their  unalienable  regards. 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 
No.  82. 

London,  Sept.  2,  1800. 
Dear  Sir: 

I  can  give  you  no  authentic  information  respecting  the  prob- 
able issue  of  the  negotiation  that  we  are  told  is  going  on  between 
Austria  &  France.  Since  the  commencement  of  the  armistice 
between  these  Powers,  the  convention  between  England  and 
Austria  is  understood  to  have  been  ratified  by  the  latter,  and  some 
persons  believe  that  preliminary  steps  have  been  taken  to  open  a 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  299 

negotiation  between  France  &  England.  In  the  meantime  neither 
France  nor  Austria  appear  to  discontinue  in  the  slightest  degree 
their  efforts  to  recruit  their  respective  armies,  and  all  that  can 
with  confidence  be  inferred  from  circumstances  of  a  public 
nature  is  the  utter  uncertainty  respecting  the  conclusion  of  the 
war.  Public  opinion  rather  leans  in  favor  of  the  probability  of  a 
pacific  settlement  of  the  misunderstanding  with  Denmark  ;  tho' 
there  is  an  impatience  to  know  the  idea  of  Lord  Whitworth's 
mission  to  Copenhagen. 

Our  Envoys  are  yet  at  Paris!     My  last  letter  from   your  office 
is  dated  the  3d  of  May. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  14  Sept.,  1800. 
Dear  Sir: 

.  .  .  Mr.  Gore  has  before  this  informed  you  how  Mr.  Adams 
stands  in  the  estimation  of  his  old  friends.  Some  of  them  enter- 
tain a  sovereign  contempt  for  him.  The  newspaper  accom- 
panying this  contains  the  letter  which  he  wrote  to  Tench  Coxe 
in  the  year  1792,  concerning  which  there  has  been  so  much 
said.  It  is  a  curious  brimberion,  to  use  a  word  coined  by  Mr. 
Adams  himself.  It  is  worthy  of  remark  that  although  the 
British  Cabinet,  according  to  Mr.  Adams,  exerted  its  influence  to 
procure  Mr.  Pinckney's  appointment,  yet  he  never  was  agreeable 
to  the  British  Court.  Quite  the  reverse,  as  I  have  understood 
from  Mr.  Jay,  for  they  considered  him  during  his  whole  residence 
at  London,  as  too  much  attached  to  the  French  Revolution.  The 
letter  is  doubtless  a  genuine  one.* 

Jefferson  is  pretty  fiercely  attacked  in  different  parts  of  the 
Continent  on  the  ground  of  his  religious  principles.  The  pam- 
phlet accompaning  this  is  an  attack  said  to  have  been  made  by  Dr. 
Linn,  one  of  the  Ministers  of  the  Dutch  church  in  this  city.     It 

*  This  was  a  private  letter — published  at  that  time  in  the  Aurora — "  avowing 
the  suspicion  that  the  appointment  of  Pinckney  to  the  Courts  of  London  had 
been  procured  or  promoted  by  British  influence."  This  letter  does  not  appear 
in  the  Life  and  Works  of  J.  Adams  by  Charles  Francis  Adams. 


3<DO  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

is  not  probable,  however,  that  all  that  has  been,  or  will  be, 
written  on  this  subject  will  deprive  Jefferson  of  a  single  vote,  so 
irrevocably  bent  is  his  party  on  forcing  him  into  the  President's 
chair.  Things  begin  to  look  more  favorably  towards  his  election 
than  they  did  some  time  ago.     .     .     . 

Burr  has  just  returned  from  the  Eastward  where  he  has  been 
for  the  purpose  of  effecting  a  division  in  the  New  England  vote. 
It  is  confidently  given  out  by  the  democrats  that  Burr  is  to  be 
run  with  Jefferson.  I  recollect  no  period  in  Burr's  life  in  which 
he  has  been  more  complacent  than  since  our  last  election  in  this 
city.  All  the  electors  of  this  state  will  consist  of  Burr's  creatures. 
He  now  considers  himself  as  the  most  efficient  man  of  that 
party.     .     .     . 

Adieu. 


CHAPTER  XXII. 

King  to  Secy,  of  State — Expedition  to  Belle  Isle  failed — Envoys  in  Paris — To 
Smith — Impressment  of  America  Seamen  in  Lisbon  by  the  English — Com- 
plaint properly  against  Portugal — To  Prest.  Adams — Unsettled  State  of 
Relations  between  France  and  Austria  may  hasten  the  Work  of  the  Envoys 
at  Paris — Food  Riots  in  London — Ames  to  King — Will  not  decide  there 
is  a  Coalition — But  too  much  Complacency  of  Adams  towards  his  Antag- 
onist as  shown  here — A  Creature  of  Impulse — Irritated  against  sound  Men 
— Thinks  it  would  be  a  light  Matter  to  have  a  War  with  Jefferson  and 
the  Jacobins  would  prefer  Adams  to  Pinckney — Sedgwick  to  King — 
Passion  displayed  in  Dismissal  of  Pickering  displayed  now  without  Dis- 
guise— Motives  that  led  to  the  Election  of  Adams  were  with  many  to 
prevent  that  of  Jefferson — Adams's  Resentment  aggravated  by  subsequent 
Events — He  does  not  conceal  his  Opinions — A  Consequence  the  Dis- 
organization of  the  federal  Party — Marshall  says  Union  alone  can  save 
the  Country — On  Massachusetts  will  depend  the  Result  of  the  Presidential 
Election — Cabot  to  King — How  to  secure  neutral  Rights — King  and  Gore 
quoted  as  thinking  Peace  not  improbable  and  as  Proof  of  the  Wisdom  of 
Adams's  Course. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  83. 

London,  Sept.  6,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  same  uncertainty  respecting  Peace  continues  that  existed 

at  the  date  of  my  last  letter.     The  expedition   under  Sir  James 

Pulteney  having  found  the  situation  of  Belle  Isle  too  formidable  to 

attack    with    a    prospect   of  success,   proceeded  against   Ferrol, 

where    the    troops    were    landed,    but    quickly    reimbarked,    the 

Defences  being  more  formidable  than  they  had  been  represented. 

Whether  the    troops   will   be   employed   in   some  other  attempt 

against  the  enemy,  or  sent  to  Portugal  menaced  with  invasion. 

or  return  home  is  more  than  I  am  able  to  decide. 

301 


302  RUFUS  KING.  1800] 

We  have  no  accounts  of  the  Envoys  since  the  1st  inst.,  when 
they  were  in  Paris.  The  annexed  copy  of  the  convention 
between  England  &  Denmark  will  show  the  manner  the  late 
misunderstanding  has  been  settled. 

With  perfect  Respect,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  William  Smith,  Esq. 

London,  Sept.  23,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  duly  received  your  letters  of  the  16th  &  18th  inst.,  and 
will  make  application  for  the  discharge  of  the  American  seamen 
named  in  Mr.  Bulkeley's  letter,  tho'  I  am  not  entirely  free  from 
doubts  concerning  the  propriety  of  a  complaint  to  this  Govern- 
ment grounded  upon  the  circumstance  of  their  having  been  im- 
pressed within  the  Territory  of  Portugal.  I  think  with  you  that 
the  complaint  is  against  the  Government  of  Portugal  for  permit- 
ting the  abuse  of  the  Rights  of  Hospitality,  the  enjoyment  of 
which  the  People  of  friendly  nations  may  respectively  claim 
within  each  others  Territories.  It  is  certainly  true  that  England 
has  no  sort  of  Right  to  compel  the  People  of  any  other  nation  to 
engage  in  her  service,  and  equally  so  that  Portugal  can  give  her 
no  such  authority  except  over  her  own  people.  If  Portugal  suffers 
England  to  seize  our  People  resorting  to  her  dominions  on  the 
faith  of  a  friendly  reception  and  Protection,  it  is  against  Portugal 
that  we  should  complain  ;  and  if  she  allows  England  to  search  for 
and  seize  its  own  people  found  within  her  Territories,  in  doing 
which  the  personal  security  of  our  seamen  is  violated,  it  is  still 
against  Portugal  that  we  should  complain,  since  she  does  not 
limit  the  permission  to  England  so  as  to  protect  us  from  injury. 

I  am  tired  and  disgusted  with  the  repetition  of  complaint  upon 
this  head  ;  our  system  of  Protection  is  in  my  eyes  a  pernicious 
one  ;  but  as  it  has  the  sanction  of  Government,  we  are  bound  to 
support  it.  As  a  further  aggravation  of  the  injustice  we  suffer 
from  the  impressment  of  our  seamen  upon  the  open  seas  and 
within  the  British  Dominions,  I  will  explain  in  the  next  I  make, 
what  is  understood  to  have  lately  happened  in  Lisbon. 

With  sincere  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  303 

R.  King  to  His  Excellency  John  Adams. 

London,  Sept.  24,  1800. 
Sir  : 

Overtures  and  even  direct  propositions  on  the  subject  of  Peace 
have  been  made  between  England  and  France,  as  well  as  between 
the  latter  &  Austria.  Indeed  it  seems  that  certain  preliminaries, 
not  yet  entirely  disclosed,  were  signed  on  the  29th  of  July  at  Paris 
by  Count  St.  Julian  on  the  part  of  the  Emperor,  and  the  dis- 
avowal of  which  at  Vienna  has  produced  the  stipulated  notice 
from  France  that  has  put  an  end  to  the  armistice. 

We  are  now  told  that  the  negotiations  will  again  fail  to  termi- 
nate the  war,  that  the  Emperor  has  placed  himself  at  the  head  of 
his  army  on  the  Danube,  and  that  we  may  daily  expect  accounts 
of  new  battles.  Whatever  may  be  the  consequences  of  this  de- 
plorable condition  of  Europe  to  its  principal  states,  I  am  mistaken 
if  it  does  not  revive  a  strong  motive  on  the  part  of  France  to 
bring  to  a  conclusion  the  negotiation  with  our  Envoys,  whose  con- 
tinuance at  Paris  strengthens  the  hope  of  a  satisfactory  termina- 
tion of  their  mission.  Popular  tumults  occasioned  by  thedearness 
of  Provisions,  have  lately  manifested  themselves  as  well  in  Lon- 
don, as  in  the  chief  cities  in  the  interior  of  the  country  ;  but  the 
presence  of  the  military  has  overawed  the  populace,  and  as  the 
harvest  has  been  plentiful,  it  is  hoped  that  Provisions,  especially 
bread,  will  soon  be  attainable  at  a  more  moderate  price.  That 
food  will  be  cheap,  while  rents  and  taxes  are  so  high,  is  a 
prophecy  in  which  I  cannot  believe. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  attachment  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


F.  Ames  to  R.  King. 

Sept.  24,  1800. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

You  will  be  anxious  to  hear  from  the  U.  S.  at  this  eventful 
crisis.  You  will  have  other  letters  than  mine,  and  I  do  not  know 
whether  the  light  I  may  shed  will  lessen  your  anxiety  or  curiosity. 
I  am  so  much  plagued  with  my  prudence  when  I  write  that  1  al- 
ways make  out  to  be  stupid,  though  I  generally  miss  of  being 
cautious.     It  is  indeed  running  a  risk  to  send  free  thoughts  in  a 


304  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

letter  so  far  and  across  the  sea  where  so  many  pirates  may  hap- 
pen to  furnish  so  much  entertainment  to  as  many  pimps  if  they 
shd.  intercept  this.  It  is  ten  to  one  you  will  not  thank  me  for  ad- 
dressing such  letters  as  I  must,  if  I  express  the  thoughts  of  my 
heart  to  you,  as  the  receiver  may  be  inculpated  as  well  as  the 
author.  Perhaps  you  may  not  think  as  I  do,  but  I  will  try  to  be 
communicative  and  hope  that  this  will  reach  you  safely. 

It  is  not  easy  to  describe  our  political  state  nor  perhaps  to  do 
it  with  any  clearness,  unless  by  some  delineation  of  character 
and  a  bold  exposure  of  weaknesses.  The  classification  of  parties 
is  not  to  be  made  out  in  any  other  way — especially  as  they  appear 
in  this  scene. 

Whether  there  is  any  ground,  (and  if  any  whether  there  is 
much)  for  the  coalition  charged  upon  the  two  heads  of  parties  I 
will  not  decide.  I  think  there  is  rather  too  much  complacency 
on  the  part  of  our  man  towards  his  antagonist,  and  too  little 
towds.  the  intended  second  of  the  former.  This  proceeds  from 
several  causes — but  chiefly  from  the  lofty  idea  he  entertains  of 
his  own  superior  wisdom  and  greatness  which  disdains  to  have 
either  for  a  second  or  a  successor  any  less  personage  than  the 
first  of  the  other  side.  He  has  also  a  strong  revolutionary  taint 
in  his  mind,  admires  the  characters,  principles  and  means  which 
that  revolutionary  system  exacts  and  for  a  short  period  seems  to 
legitimate,  and  as  you  know  holds  cheap  any  reputation  that  was 
not  then  founded  and  top'd  off.  Accordingly  he  respects  his  rival 
and  the  Gazette  here,  absolutely  devoted  to  him  and  in  the  hands 
of  his  personal  friends  exclusively,  is  silent  and  has  been  for  some 
months  in  respect  to  that  rival.  His  irreligion,  wild  philosophy 
and  gimcrackery  in  politics  are  never  mentioned.  On  the  con- 
trary the  great  man  has  been  known  to  speak  of  him  with  much 
regard,  and  an  affected  indignation  at  the  charge  of  irreligion, 
asking  what  has  that  to  do  with  the  public  and  adding  that  he  is 
a  good  patriot,  citizen  and  father.  The  good  Lady  his  wife  has 
been  often  talkative  in  a  similar  strain,  and  she  is  as  complete  a 
politician  as  any  Lady  in  the  old  French  Court. 

Besides  these  motives,  vindictive  feelings  will  concur  to  dis- 
appoint those  who  would  disappoint  him,  and  to  be  excluded  by 
his  own  party  would  be  justly  more  mortifying  than  to  be  ousted 
by  a  majority  on  the  side  of  his  rival.     How  much  character  is 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  305 

expected  to  be  patched  up  by  a  little  courtship  of  the  other  party 
you  may  infer  from  his  saying  that  the  measure  which  has  so 
much  afflicted  us  all  is  the  most  glorious  act  of  his  life  and  he 
will  order  it  engraven  on  his  tomb  stone.  His  partizans  boast  of 
its  popularity  and  that  only  a  very  few  like  Hamilton  and  the 
Essex  Junto  condemn  it.  It  is  also  true  that  the  Jacobins  allow 
that  the  act  was  good,  though  they  intimate  that  it's  motive  was 
to  gain  them,  and  not  a  sincere  right  principle. 

The  man  I  allude  to  is  too  much  the  creature  of  i7?ipulse  or 
freakish  humour — he  is  a  revolutionist  from  temperament,  habit 
and  lately  what  he  thinks  policy — he  is  too  much  irritated  against 
many  if  not  most  of  the  principal  sound  men  of  the  country  ever  to 
bestow  on  them  his  confidence  or  to  retrieve  theirs.  In  particular 
he  is  implacable  against  a  certain  great  little  man  whom  we 
mutually  respect.  With  so  much  less  than  the  old  &  requisite 
harmony  with  the  best  friends  of  the  country,  he  has  certain  antipa- 
thies and  prejudices  connected  with  them  that  are  equally  strange, 
stubborn  &  pernicious.  He  really  thinks  it  a  light  matter  to  have 
a  war  with  G.  B.  as  he  hates  that  Governt.  in  every  thing  but  it's 
theory,  believes  it  corrupt  and  affects  to  believe  it  possesses  in- 
fluence here  ;  he  can  scarcely  refrain  and  he  seldom  tries  to  re- 
frain from  inveighing  against  British  influence,  and  to  conciliate 
to  himself  the  mob  honors  that  cant  will  obtain.  He  does  not 
hesitate  to  say  that  public  debt  wd.  go  down  and  paper  money 
come  up  in  that  case.  But  he  loves  to  bluster  and  vapor  about 
the  courage  he  once  displayed  when  he  was  not  afraid  of  that 
great  power  when  we  had  not  half  our  present  force.  He  has 
the  os  magne  soniturum  and  with  all  the  ignorance  of  men  & 
business  that  must  belong  to  the  possessor  of  the  before  mentioned 
tenets,  he  indulges  the  vanity,  so  much  his  favorite  &  his  master. 

The  effect  of  having  him  at  our  head  is  for  you  and  everyone 
to  consider.  The  Jacobins  plainly  say  they  prefer  him  to  his  in- 
tended second.  It  is  plain  they  choose  we  should  be  without  a 
head  or  with  one  that  will  not  fit  the  shoulders. 

Accordingly  I  have  long  thought  it  probable  that  the  Leader 
of  the  Jacobins  willing  to  hide  behind  his  rival's  back  will  not 
be  sorry  to  see  him  prefer'd,  believing  that  he  will  be  only  nomi- 
nal chief,  that  the  ruin  of  the  Feds  by  discord  &  inefficiency  will 
be  safely  and  securely  procured,  while  he,  the  second,  would  be 


VOL.  III. — 20 


306  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

safe  not  responsible,  yet  actually  the  ruler,  and  that  by  flattery 
the  other  might  be  inclined  and  by  blowing  up  his  resentments 
against  his  federal  supporters,  driven  to  may  acts  of  Jacobinism. 
Policy  so  refined  will  not  prevent  this  man  from  ousting  the  pres- 
ent occupant  if  he  can.  But  if  he  can  discern  beforehand  that 
his  own  chance  is  desperate,  I  am  almost  sure  the  Jacobins  will 
vote  for  the  present  rather  than  to  let  Gen.  P.  be  chosen.  The 
votes,  as  we  now  count  them,  will  be  nearly  equally  divided. 
South  Carolina  is  yet  uncertain  as  the  legislature  is  not  elected 
and  many  adverse  contingencies  may  lessen  our  number.  On 
the  whole,  it  is  probable  that  J.  will  be  elected  ;  if  he  cannot  be, 
that  A.  will  be  voted  for  by  many  Jacobins  and  therefore  his 
chance  is  the  next  best.  People  differ  much  on  this  subject  and 
few  believe  as  I  do  that  the  Jacobins  will  act  as  I  have  settled 
in  case  of  their  despairing  of  their  first  object. 

J's  election  will  greatly  endanger  our  peace  abroad,  and  order 
at  home.  The  prejudices  of  another  will  perhaps  with  an  equally 
bad  tendency  towards  war  dispose  him  to  neglect  every  proper  & 
reasonable  step  to  secure  peace  and  to  take  affront  &  sound  the 
tocsin  on  the  first  cause  of  irritation  given  by  B.  Take  care  of  our 
peace.  I  should  think  the  present  desponding  crisis  in  B.  affairs 
a  good  moment  for  adjusting  matters  of  difference  with  them. 

My  former  letters  have  probably  stated  my  conjectures  respect- 
ing the  votes  in  New  England.  Some  foolish  writers  in  the 
Gazettes  have  tried  their  talents  to  divide  the  Feds  and  with  some 
success  at  first.  The  better  knowledge  of  the  subject  which  has 
been  spread  more  by  conversation  than  in  print  has  mended  pub- 
lic opinion  a  good  deal  and  I  now  have  hopes,  though  I  am  less 
sanguine  than  most  others,  that  our  Legislature  will  act  right. 

Newspaper  essays  have  not  been  much  resorted  to  and  it  is 
thought  would  irritate.  We  have  been  and  still  are  placed  in  a 
difficult  pass.  You  will  not  get  half  as  much  information  as  you 
desire,  because  probably  not  one  of  your  correspondents  will  be 
"  so  loose  of  thought  "  as  I  have  been.  I  take  no  thought  before- 
hand what  I  shall  write  and  will  thank  you  to  burn  this  immedi- 
ately after  perusal. 

Sept.  26. 

I  have  just  seen  a  gentleman  of  South  Carolina  who  says  that 
his  intelligence  from  there  is  very  recent  &  very  encouraging,  that 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  307 

a  federal  legislature  is  confidently  expected  to  be  chosen  in  Octo- 
ber and  that  the  votes  will  be  fairly,  liberally  and  faithfully  given 
to  the  two  federal  candidates. 


T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Stockbridge.  26.  Sept.,  1800. 


Dear  Sir 


.  .  .  The  dismissal  of  Mr.  Pickering  alone  would  have  been 
regretted  by  every  man  acquainted  with  his  character,  who  justly 
appreciated  his  merits  and  virtues  ;  but  had  he  been  only  an 
object  of  distrust  and  resentment,  the  injury  would  have  been 
less  fatal  to  the  cause  which  we  have  endeavored  to  support. 
The  same  extends  to  almost  every  man,  in  our  country,  who  has 
been  active  &  zealous  in  the  support  of  the  executive  administra- 
tion. The  sentiment  or  passion,  which  has,  in  this  instance,  dis- 
played itself,  was  long  smothered,  but  has  lately  burst  forth,  and 
is  now  permitted  to  rage  without  controul  or  disguise.  It  had  its 
origin  with  the  events  of  the  last  election. 

When  General  Washington  notified  his  intention  to  retire  from 
public  life,  the  wish  that  Mr.  Adams  should  be  his  successor 
was  unanimous  amongall  the  friends  of  the  government.  This  wish 
was,  however,  entertained  by  gentlemen  with  different  modifica- 
tions. While  some  were  disposed  to  consider  the  election  of  Mr. 
Adams  as  the  first  object,  others  more  strongly  impressed  with 
the  mischief  which  would  result  from  the  success  of  Jefferson,  or 
thought  that  success  more  probable,  directed  their  efforts  to 
insure  his  exclusion.  The  latter,  of  whom  I  was  one,  endeavored 
to  induce  the  electors  to  give  their  votes,  homogeneously,  for  Mr. 
Adams  &  Mr.  Pinkney.  This  conduct  was  deeply  resented  at 
the  time  &  has  never  since  been  forgotten.  Mr.  Adams  was  then 
imprudent  enough,  I  say  what  I  know,  to  declare  to  several 
gentlemen,  at  several  times,  in  substance,  that  he  was  to  be 
sacrificed  to  the  personal  enmity  entertained  against  Mr.  Jeffer- 
son, whose  pretensions  were  preferable  to  Mr.  Pinckney's — In 
some  instances  he   went  further  and  pretty  plainly  hinted,  that 


308  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

some  wished  Mr.  Pinckney  to  succeed  against  him,  because  he 
could  be  more  easily  influenced.  The  principal  object  of  his 
resentment  and  jealousy  was  Mr.  Hamilton,  who,  possessing  great 
influence,  had,  in  his  usual  open  and  undisguised  manner,  exerted 
it  all  on  this  occasion.  Here  those  feelings,  which  since  indulged 
have  been  so  mischievous,  had  their  commencement.  The 
jealousy  which  took  place  at  that  time  has,  from  a  vast  variety 
of  circumstances,  which  have  since  assumed  acquired  strength — 
such  as  the  hesitation  of  some  to  assent  to  the  nomination  of  his 
son  as  Minister  to  Berlin — the  anxiety  which  was  expressed,  to 
him,  that  General  Washington  should  be  placed  at  the  head  of 
the  army — his  wish  &  that  of  his  friend  that  Hamilton  should  be 
second  in  command — the  opposition  which  was  made  to  the 
appointment  of  Gerry,  and  the  chagrin  occasioned  by  Gerry's 
conduct — the  negative  of  the  nomination  of  W.  Smith  as  adjutant 
general — the  nomination  of  Murray  &  what  then  took  place — 
the  disgust  which  was  created  by  the  last  mission  to  france — the 
President's  conduct  towards  his  ministers  on  that  occasion,  and 
their  manly  avowal  of  their  opinions,  and  above  all  the  recom- 
mendations of  the  whole  federal  party  of  General  Pinckney  as  a 
joint  and  equal  candidate  with  him  for  the  office  of  President, 
have  excited  the  most  furious  indignation  in  his  mind  &  which  he 
is  at  no  pains  to  conceal.  He  every  where  denounces  the  men, 
and  almost  all  the  men  in  whom  he  confided,  at  the  beginning  of 
his  administration,  as  an  oligarchish  faction,  who  are  combined 
to  drive  him  from  office,  because  they  cannot  govern  him,  and  to 
appoint  Pinckney,  by  whose  agency,  under  the  controul  of  this 
faction  &  particularly  of  Hamilton  its  head,  the  country  is  to  be 
driven  into  a  war  with  france  &  a  more  intimate,  if  not  an  indis- 
soluble, union  with  great  Britain.  In  consequence  of  these  repre- 
sentations by  him,  which  are  diffused  thro'  this  state  by  his 
friends,  and  more  by  the  indefatigable  industry  of  his  enemies 
the  jacobins,  the  federal  party  here  has  been  disorganized,  and 
every  where  thro'  the  nation  its  energies  are  paralized.  By  the 
most  painful  industry,  and  the  most  perfect  union  the  friends  of 
the  Government  had  attained  a  height  on  which  they  appeared 
to  be  impregnably  intrenched  ;  but  by  the  conduct  of  an 
individual,  the  whole  force  is  disheartened,  on  one  hand,  and  on 
the  other  the  adversary  is  inspired  with  fresh  confidence. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  309 

The  appointment  of  Marshall  as  Secy,  of  State  was  a  fortunate 
event — I  believe  there  is  not  a  man  in  the  U.  S.  of  better  inten- 
tions, and  he  has  the  confidence  of  all  good  men — no  man  regrets 
more  than  he  does  the  disunion  which  has  taken  place,  and  no  one 
would  do  more  to  heal  the  wounds  inflicted  by  it.  In  a  letter 
which  I  received  from  him  a  few  days  since  he  says,  "  by  union 
we  can  securely  maintain  our  ground — without  it  we  must  sink 
&  with  us  all  sound,  correct  American  principle."  His  efforts 
will,  I  fear,  prove  ineffectual. 

With  regard  to  the  ensuing  election,  the  result  at  present  can 
not  be  known,  but  my  hopes  greatly  preponderate.  The  event 
will  I  think  depend  on  N.  England,  &  particularly  Massachusetts. 
The  laudable  conduct  of  the  Legislature  in  retaining  to  them- 
selves the  choice  of  electors  was  intended  to  prevent  the  scatter- 
ing of  votes.  Every  art  which  wickedness  &  falsehood  could 
invent  has  been  practised,  to  defeat  this  intention,  by  seducing 
the  members  ;  I  hope  &  believe  without  success.  At  the  time 
we  agreed  on  Mr.  Pinckney  as  a  candidate,  which  was  at  a  meeting 
of  the  whole  federal  party  in  Congress,  we  had  every  assurance 
which  could  be  given  by  the  members  from  S.  Carolina,  that 
whatever  might  be  the  character  of  their  electors,  such  was  the 
popularity  of  General  Pinckney,  that  all  the  votes  of  that  state 
would  be  given  to  him — if  federal  of  course  for  Adams  &  Pinck- 
ney, if  antifederal  for  Pinckney  &  Jefferson.  I  had  a  letter  a  few 
days  since  from  Harper,  who  is  settled  in  Baltimore.  He  says, 
that  we  may,  with  certainty,  calculate  on  ten  votes  there.  It  is 
almost  reduced  to  a  certainty  that  no  votes  will  be  given  in 
Pennsylva. — The  candidates  are  the  gentlemen  above  mentioned 
&  Burr,  but  of  him  I  am  confident  there  is  no  danger.  I  have 
inclosed  a  conjectural  list  of  votes. 

The  accomodations  in  Washington,  I  fear,  will  not  in  any  re- 
spect, be  very  eligible,  but,  doubtless,  many  inconveniences  must 
be  submitted  to  before  a  removal  is  contemplated.  Among  the 
inconveniences  which  I  foresee  the  most  mischievous  will  be  the 
secession  of  men  of  talents  and  experience.  In  any  situation  the 
inducements  to  serve  are  so  few  &  the  sacrifices  so  great  and  ob- 
vious ;  on  one  hand  neither  power  to  stimulate  ambition  nor 
patronage  to  sooth  benevolence,  and  on  the  other,  slander  and 
falsehood  to  deter,  that  much  of  imbecility  might  be  expected. 


3IO  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Our  old  friend  Strong  will,  I  hope,  make  us  a  pretty  good  gov- 
ernor— We  are  not,  indeed,  to  suppose  that  opposition  will  be  de- 
terred by  imposing  frowns — nor  are  we  to  expect  that  much  of 
dignity  will  be  added  to  Govt,  by  a  commanding  ascendency  of 
character,  but  every  thing  that  a  pleasing  suavity  of  manners, 
pure  morals,  integrity  and  a  spirit  of  conciliation  can  effect  may 
be  relied  on.  Firmness,  in  cases  where  expedients  can  not  be 
resorted  to,  will  not  be  wanting,  but  that  is  a  resource  which 
never  will  be  resorted  to  but  in  cases  of  necessity  ;  nor  will  he  ever 
assume  unnecessary  responsibility. 

You  will  probably  receive  this  Letter  at  a  time  when  you  are 
uncertain  of  the  elections  in  Essex.  Our  friends,  there,  think 
there  is  no  danger  in  either.  For  myself  I  fear  that  Lincoln  will 
prevail.  We  could  not  send  from  this  state  a  worse  man.  He  is 
dangerous  from  his  weight  of  character,  and  more  from  his  being 
an  enthusiast.  He  is  in  fact,  in  principle,  a  democrat.  It  was  a 
misfortune  that  Foster  was  chosen  into  the  senate,  in  the  first 
place  for  reasons  you  know,  and  in  the  second  because  there  was 
no  other  man  whose  popularity  could  ballance  against  that  of 
Lincoln.  But  the  Legislature  had  no  other  choice.  The  office 
of  senator  went  a  begging  and  was  rejected  by  many — I  believe 
no  changes  will  any  where  else  be  made  unfavorable  to  the  gov- 
ernment. 

I  should  have  resigned  my  seat  in  Congress  at  the  same  time  I 
declined  a  future  election  could  I  have  foreseen,  with  certainty, 
the  result  of  the  ensuing  election  of  President.  But  should  there 
be  no  choice  or  should  the  choice  fall  on  Jefferson  I  should  wish 
to  be  present. 

I  am  sincerely  yours 

T.  S. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 


Sep.  30,  1800. 


My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  a  thousand  times  thought  of  the  regulations  you  con- 
template to  mitigate  to  neutral  Commerce  the  oppressions  it  suffers 
from  Belligerent  nations  under  the  sanction  of  law  &  to  satisfy 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  311 

those  nations  in  a  fair  &  ample  manner  that  their  Enemies'  prop- 
erty is  not  covered.  I  have  no  idea  however  that  such  a  system 
will  be  ever  established  or  maintained  by  armed  neutralities  or 
combinations  of  that  kind.  I  shou'd  think  it  might  nevertheless 
be  brought  about  by  particular  stipulations  between  nation  & 
nation  which  if  fairly  performed  &  not  abused  wou'd  in  time  be- 
come a  law.  So  far  am  I  from  "deciding  hastily  "  (in  this  case  I 
mean)  that  I  have  often  reflected  upon  the  means  which  a  nation 
possesses  of  assuring  to  another  what  that  other,  being  in  a  state 
of  war,  has  a  right  to  know,  &  I  think  a  nation  cou'd  by  its  own 
laws  &  regulations  give  to  another  better  evidence  of  that  which 
it  has  a  right  to  know  than  that  nation  can  ordinarily  derive  from 
the  proceeding  now  used.  It  is  not  impracticable  to  secure  to 
neutrals  the  full  &  unmolested  exercise  of  every  right,  on  which 
they  can  reasonably  insist,  by  fair  conventions  with  the  great  fight- 
ing nation,  if  the  same  parties  have  a  sincere  disposition  to  do  it ;  but 
neutrals  will  not  always  be  satisfied  with  this  alone,  &  one  at  least 
of  the  warring  powers  will  be  still  less  satisfied.  France,  for  ex- 
ample, while  inferior  to  England  in  maritime  force,  can  never  be 
reconciled  to  any  arrangement  respecting  neutrals  which  cannot 
be  made  to  shield  her  own  Commerce  in  time  of  war,  &  every 
arrangement  convertible  to  this  purpose  will  certainly  be  opposed 
by  England  or  by  any  predominant  maritime  power. 

By  your  letter  of  the  28th  July  it  appears  you  think  a  peace  not 
improbable.  I  had  previously  heard  that  this  opinion  was  quoted 
by  the  President  &  enlarged  upon  as  a  proof  of  his  wisdom  &  the 
errors  of  those  who  have  been  alarmed  at  his  measures.  Perhaps 
you  little  suspected  that  such  a  use  wou'd  be  made  of  your  name, 
but  I  am  assured  it  has  some  effect  in  increasing  the  animosity 
or  rather  the  avowal  of  enmity  to  G.  B.  among  men  whom  fear  or 
prudence  has  kept  silent. 

Our  friend  Gore  too  is  quoted  as  having  found  by  experience 
that  the  English  do  not  merit  so  much  respect  as  the  damned 
british  faction  (which  they  are  sometimes  called)  are  disposed  to 
pay  them  ;  thus  you  see  that  men  who  think  the  most  correctly 
&  whose  conduct  corresponds  to  their  opinions,  are  made  to  tes- 
tify against  their  friends  &  even  against  themselves. 

I  remain  constantly  &  faithfully, 

Yours 


312  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Long  as  are  several  of  these  letters  from  the  valued  corre- 
spondents of  Mr.  King  in  America  they  are  here  given  in  full, 
for  they  present,  as  do  some  subsequent  ones,  a  picture  of 
the  political  views  of  his  friends  during  the  canvass  preced- 
ing the  election  of  the  President  and  of  the  personal  feelings 
of  the  leaders  of  the  federal  party  under  their  changed  rela- 
tions with  Mr.  Adams.  In  the  confidence  that  Mr.  King 
sympathized  with  them  and  felt  a  deep  interest  in  the  wel- 
fare of  the  federal  party,  which  they,  as  well  as  he,  knew  had 
laid  firmly  the  foundations  of  the  Government  and  caused  the 
country  to  prosper  and  gain  the  respect  of  other  nations, 
they  wrote  to  him  their  firm  belief  that  a  continuation  of  the 
Government  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Adams,  who  had  become 
alienated  from  those  with  whom  he  had  until  a  short  time 
past  always  acted,  would  endanger  the  welfare  of  the  coun- 
try, by  his  evident  affiliation  or  sympathy  with  their  oppo- 
nents, and  that  their  own  influence  in  the  conduct  of  public 
affairs  was  gone  unless  by  union  and  prudent  concert  they 
might  be  able  to  counteract  the  energy,  recklessness,  and 
activity  of  those  with  whom  Mr.  Adams  seemed  inclined  to 
unite  himself,  and  who  held  opinions  so  fundamentally 
opposed  to  their  own.  The  choice  among  the  candidates  for 
the  Presidency  was  of  one  whom  they  did  not  trust,  or  of  Mr. 
Jefferson  whom  they  detested  and  whose  principles  they  held 
to  be  tainted  with  the  worst  features  of  French  democracy, 
which  they  had  found  from  the  inauguration  of  the  Govern- 
ment threatening  to  overthrow  the  wise  measures  which  had 
hitherto  caused  it  to  prosper.  It  is  therefore  not  to  be  won- 
dered at  that  these  patriotic  leaders  were  earnest  in  their 
desire  to  counteract  the  efforts  of  their  opponents  and  to 
place  in  the  Presidency  a  man  who  held  the  views  which 
they  advocated,  and  believed  to  be  best  for  the  general  good, 
and  calculated  to  establish  the  country  in  its  proper  position 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth.  As  they  felt,  so  they  ex- 
pressed themselves  and  there  is  no  doubt  that  they  addressed 
their  thoughts  to  a  sympathizing  correspondent  and  trusted 
adviser. 


CHAPTER  XXIII. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Strange  Conduct  of  Emperor  of  Austria — Reasons 
for  it — English  Envoys  to  be  received  at  the  Congress  at  Luneville — Rus- 
sia dissatisfied  with  England — Depredations  on  American  Commerce  in 
West  Indies  due  to  pillaging  Spirit  of  English  Officers — Mr.  Merry  to 
succeed  Mr.  Liston — Troup  to  King — Hamilton  thinks  of  publishing 
Grounds  of  his  Opposition  to  Adams — Laments  the  scattering  of  Federal- 
ists— Insurrection  in  Virginia — King  to  Murray — Mode  of  Expenditure  of 
Money  for  Claims  in  the  prize  Courts — Under  King's  Control — Character 
of  them — W.  Constable  to  King — Convention  with  France  signed — First 
Consul's  Toast  at  Feast  in  Celebration  :  Perpetual  Amity  between  France 
and  the  United  States — King  to  Smith — The  President  approves  of  Pur- 
chase of  Jewels  for  Bey  of  Tunis  under  the  Circumstances — To  Discourage 
Expectation  of  future  Purchases — To  Secretary  of  State — Austria  proba- 
bly to  conclude  a  separate  Treaty  with  France — Crops  in  England  good — 
Not  sufficient  for  a  Year's  Supply — King  to  Lord  Grenville — President's 
Congratulations  on  the  King's  Escape  from  Assassination — To  Secretary 
of  State  on  same  Subject — Lord  Grenville's  Answer  to  J.  White — Acknowl- 
edges the  Receipt  of  a  Piece  of  Plate  from  Lloyd's  for  Captain  Truxton, 
to  be  sent  to  him — Lord  Grenville  to  King — Mr.  Soren's  Pamphlet — He 
Complains  of  Inattention  to  his  Business — Denied  by  Lord  Grenville — 
King  to  Secretary  of  State — Convention  with  France — Lord  Grenville 
finds  no  Fault  except  as  to  Convoys  and  the  Rights  of  Neutrals — King 
thought  Regulations  for  Trade  of  Neutrals  might  be  made  by  Convoys 
without  affecting  injuriously  the  Right  of  Search — Lord  Grenville  admitted 
the  Fairness  of  the  Project — Mr.  Merry  the  Successor  of  Liston  favorably 
spoken  of. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  84. 

London,  Sep.  30,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  is  not  easy  at  this  moment  to  explain  the  conduct  of  the 
Emperor  in  disgracing  Count  St.  Julian  and  refusing  to  ratify  the 
preliminaries  signed  by  him  at  Paris,  and  afterwards  going  to  his 

313 


3 14  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Army,  where  his  first  act  has  been  the  Delivery  of  the  Fortresses 
at  Philipsburg,  Ulm  &  Ingolstadt  to  the  French  as  the  price  of  a 
prolongation  of  the  armistice  and  the  pledge  of  his  sincerity  in 
the  negotiation  for  Peace  immediately  to  be  opened  on  the  Basis 
of  Count  St.  Julian's  preliminaries  at  Luneville  near  Nanci  in 
France.  Some  persons  perceive  the  explanation  of  this  apparent 
inconsistency,  in  the  Russian  armies  assembling  in  Transylvania 
and  which  in  a  few  weeks  may  be  ready  to  cooperate  with  the 
Austrian  forces  :  others,  in  the  fidelity  of  Austria,  which  would 
do  nothing  without  England  ;  and  others  in  the  discovery  of  the 
comparative  superiority  of  the  French  army,  and  the  consequent 
conviction  of  the  Emperor  that  Peace  was  the  only  means  of 
safety.  France  consents  to  receive  the  Envoys  of  England  at  the 
Congress  of  Luneville,  provided  England  immediately  agrees  to 
a  naval  armistice.  Negotiations  upon  this  point  are  going  on,  and 
the  armistice  will  be  settled  if  England  believes  that  Austria  is  in 
earnest  to  put  an  end  to  the  war. 

The  sequestration  of  British  property  in  Russia,  in  consequence 
of  the  passage  of  the  Sound  by  the  English  squadron  sent  to 
support  Lord  Whitworth's  negotiation  at  Copenhagen,  was  re- 
voked as  soon  as  the  misunderstanding  with  Denmark  was  under- 
stood to  be  settled  ;  but  the  measure  was  one  that  has  not  only 
excited  a  lively  sensation  in  this  country,  but  may  be  regarded  as 
complete  proof  of  the  unabated  dissatisfaction  of  Russia  towards 
England.  The  squadron  which  was  prepared  to  bombard  Copen- 
hagen, had  a  decisive  influence  on  the  negotiation,  and  hastened 
its  conclusion  ;  but  the  knowledge  of  the  fact  that  Lord  Whit- 
worth,  on  delivering  his  ultimatum,  limited  the  Danish  Govern- 
ment to  a  categorical  answer  to  be  given  in  eight  days  is  not  likely 
to  moderate  the  jealousy  of  the  English  naval  superiority  that 
has  become  so  generally  prevalent.  The  convention  was  signed 
on  the  evening  of  the  eighth  day. 

Having  seen  in  the  late  American  Newspapers  frequent  articles 
concerning  the  depredations  of  the  English  Cruizers  upon  our 
coasts  and  in  the  West  Indies,  I  have  taken  some  pains  to  ascer- 
tain whether  any  new  orders  affecting  our  Trade  had  been  issued, 
or  whether  these  increased  irregularities  proceed  from  the  un- 
checked and  base  spirit  of  Plunder,  that  influences  so  many  of  the 
English  naval  Commanders.     The  result  of  my  inquiries  satisfies 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  315 

me  that  they  are  to  be  ascribed  to  the  latter  cause,  which  will  gain 
strength  and  continue  to  operate  until  the  Prize-Courts  compel 
the  Captors  to  give  complete  indemnity  to  Neutrals  for  their 
losses  and  the  Government  shall  be  willing  to  discourage  the  pil- 
laging spirit  of  its  officers  by  a  few  instances  of  severe  and  exem- 
plary Punishment. 

I  have  reason  to  believe  that  it  is  the  intention  of  this  Govern- 
ment to  send  Mr.  Merry  to  the  U.  States,  as  the  successor  of  Mr. 
Liston,  who  has  leave  of  absence  &  will  not  return  to  America 
after  he  leaves  it.  Mr.  Merry  was  several  years  in  Spain,  and  I 
think  as  Consul  General  is  said  to  have  acted  with  ability  in  the 
affairs  of  Nootka,  and  has  lately  returned  from  Denmark,  where 
he  has  served  in  a  diplomatic  character.  I  do  not  know  him,  but 
will  take  measures  to  obtain  and  send  you  more  particular  in- 
formation respecting  his  character  and  dispositions 
With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  i  Oct.,  1800. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  have  nothing  new  for  you,  except  that  the  late  elec- 
tion in  Connecticut  has  produced  a  decidedly  federal  legislature  ; 
more  so  than  they  have  had  in  that  State  for  some  time.  And 
yet  it  is  acknowledged  on  all  hands  that  democracy  is  on  the 
growth  in  that  State  !  This  information  is  given  to  me  by 
General  Hamilton  who  is  just  from  Hartford  where  he  has  been 
to  attend  our  State  trial.     .     .     . 

Hamilton  has  thoughts  of  publishing  the  grounds  of  his  opposi- 
tion to  Mr.  Adams  ;  and  from  circumstances  I  expect  daily  to  see 
him  in  the  newspapers  on  this  subject. 

My  good  friend,  I  cannot  describe  to  you  how  broken  and 
scattered  your  federal  friends  are  !  At  present  we  have  no  rally- 
ing point  ;  and  no  mortal  can  divine  where  or  when  we  shall 
again  collect  our  strength  !  .  .  .  Shadows,  clouds,  and  dark- 
ness rest  on  our  future  prospects.  My  spirits,  in  spite  of  all  my 
philosophy,    cannot    maintain    the    accustomed    level.     For   the 


316  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

present  they  have  sunk  me  into  an  apathy  for  public  concern,  and 
forced  me  into  the  bosom  of  my  own  family — where  after  all  is 
centered  the  only  happiness  we  can  expect  to  enjoy  on  earth. 

In  Virginia  *  they  are  beginning  to  feel  the  happy  effects  of 
liberty  and  equality.  A  serious  and  tremendous  insurrection  was 
on  the  point  of  breaking  out  there  a  few  days  ago.  It  was  dis- 
covered as  it  was  about  being  executed.  The  reports  from  that 
quarter  say  that  it  was  planned  by  Frenchmen,  and  that  all  the 
whites,  save  the  French,  were  to  have  been  sacrificed.  The  whole 
state  has  been  in  consternation — their  courts  are  sitting — trials 
are  taking  place  and  the  gallows  are  in  full  operation.  .  . 
We  are  also  told  that  there  actually  has  been  a  rising  of  negroes 
in  South  Carolina.     .     .     . 

Genl.  Armstrong  is  said  to  be  Jefferson's  religious  cham- 
pion. .  .  .  Hamilton  thinks  worse  of  the  state  of  our  affairs 
than  I  do.  I  cannot  bring  myself  to  believe  that  the  same  conse- 
quences will  result  which  he  apprehends.     .     .     . 

R.  T. 


R.  King  to  William  Vans  Murray. 

Mill  Hill,  Oct.  4,  1800. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  yesterday  received  by  Capt.  Hill  your  letter  of  the  27th  of 
July  and  can  answer  in  very  few  words  your  enquiry  respecting 
the  expenditures  of  public  money  in  this  country  for  the  prosecu- 
tion of  claims  in  the  Prize  Courts.  Since  my  residence  here  this 
expenditure  has  been  made  under  my  control  and  direction. 
Conceiving  that  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Bayard,  the  agent 
charged  with  the  care  of  the  American  Claims,  arose  from  the 
almost  indiscriminate  capture  of  our  vessels  in  1793  &  1794,  and 
that  it  was  not  the  intention  of  the  Government  to  maintain  a 
permanent  agent,  nor  to  take  upon  itself  the  charge  and  expense 

*  Jefferson  says  in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Rush  Sept.  23,  1800  : 

"  You  will  hear  an  account  of  an  attempt  at  insurrection  in  this  State.  I  am 
looking  with  anxiety  to  see  what  will  be  its  effect  in  our  State.  We  are  truly 
to  be  pitied." — jfeffersoris  Complete  Works,  vol.  iv.,  p.  336. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  317 

of  conducting  the  claims  for  Property,  captured  subsequent  to  the 
Treaty  with  England,  Mr.  Bayard  was  instructed  by  me  to  afford 
his  advice  and  personal  assistance  to  all  our  countrymen,  whose 
property  might  be  captured  by  the  English,  and  to  require  of 
them  to  engage  their  own  Proctors  and  provide  their  own  funds, 
and  in  no  case  to  engage  the  U.  States,  or  to  advance  their 
money  to  prosecute  claims  occurring  subsequent  to  the  English 
Treaty.  This  instruction  was  approved  by  the  Secretary  of 
State,  and  has  been  scrupulously  observed  by  Mr.  Williams,  who 
succeeded  Mr.  Bayard. 

The  only  disbursement  of  public  money  that  has  been,  or  that 
continues,  to  be  made  is  to  the  Proctors  of  the  Prize  Courts,  who 
had  been  engaged  in  cases  older  than  the  Treaty,  and  to  the 
agent  (first  Mr.  Bayard,  now  Mr.  Williams)  for  his  salary  and 
contingent  account,  including  his  postage  and  the  expense  of  the 
copies  of  the  Vice-Admiralty  proceedings  ;  and  no  money  has 
ever  been  paid  for  the  support  of  captains,  witnesses  or  private 
agents.  Indeed  it  would  in  my  eyes  be  money  thrown  away  to 
support  the  Supercargoes,  Masters  or  other  officers  of  the 
captured  vessels,  whose  presence  is  of  no  use,  and  who  can  afford 
no  assistance  in  the  Trial.  One  intelligent  agent,  such  as  we 
have  here,  is  enough,  and  the  business  which  I  found  a  chaos, 
has  been  methodized  and  arranged  so  as  to  enable  the  agent  to 
give  every  information  respecting  it  to  the  Proctors  as  well  as  the 
Proprietors.  The  agent  requires  a  regular  account  of  the 
Proctors,  to  whom  he  pays  no  charge  not  sanctioned  by  a  Bill 
taxed  by  the  Register,  and  in  every  case,  deducts  from  the 
property  recovered  or  restored,  the  public  advances  in  the 
prosecution  of  the  Suit  ;  when  the  same  claimant  has  more  than 
one  suit,  the  agent  detains  the  whole  of  the  public  advances  in  all 
of  them,  including  as  well  those  decided  against  the  claimant  as 
those  still  undecided,  and  in  this  way  we  hope  to  get  back  the 
chief  part  of  the  public  money.     I  will  write  to  you  again  shortly. 

Pray  deliver  the  Books  purchased  for  me  to  Mitchell  or  Cod- 
man,  who  will  forward  them  ;  let  those  which  are  not  bound  be 
bound  before  they  are  sent. 

With  truth  and  attachment,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


318  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

W.  Constable  to  R.  King. 

Paris,  6th  October,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Convention  between  this  Country  and  the  U.  S.  was  con- 
cluded the  last  of  September,  as  you  will  most  probably  be 
apprised  by  our  Envoys.  The  question  of  compensation  is  for 
the  present  waived,  the  Role  d'Equipage  given  up,  and  the  only 
Papers  in  future  required  are  a  Sea-Letter  &  Register,  which  rule 
is  to  be  applied  to  all  property  captured  and  not  finally  con- 
demned.    .     .     . 

Ellsworth  &  Davie  will  arrive  at  Havre  to  day,  having  set  off 
from  Joseph  Bonaparte's  Country  Seat  2  days  since,  where  there 
was  a  most  superb  fete  given  on  the  occasion  of  the  pacification 
with  America  when  the  first  Toast  by  the  first  Consul  was, 
Perpetual  Amity  between  France  &  the  U.  S.  He  mentioned 
the  telegraphic  despatch,  received  in  the  eveng.  of  the  fete,  of 
Thugut's  removal  and  Cobenzel's  coming  to  Paris.  Stocks  have 
risen  exceedingly  in  consequence.  Rentes  Provissoires,  which 
were  at  6,  when  I  arrived  here,  are  now  36  pr.  100.  Murray 
will  set  off  in  a  few  days  for  the  Hague. 

With  sincere  regard  &c. 

W.  C.  Constable. 


R.  King  to  Charles  Lee,  Esq. 

Office  of  the  Department  of  State,  City  of  Washington. 

No.  85.  * 

London,  Oct.  7,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  the  satisfaction  to  inform  you  that  the  Paris  papers  just 
arrived,  under  the  article  and  sanction  of  official  information, 
state  that  a  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Commerce  between  the  United 
States  of  America  and  France  was  signed  on  the  1st  instant. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  with  great  respect  &  esteem,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

*  Note  by  R.  K. 

Mr.  Pickering  was  removed  from  the  Department  of  State  in  May — but  no 
official  intimation  of  this  change  was  received  till  the  arrival  of  a  letter  dated 
23  May,  from  Mr.  Lee,  the  Acting  Secretary,  and  from  this  time,  despatches 
were  no  longer  addressed  to  Col.  Pickering. 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  319 


R.  King  to  William  Smith. 

London,  Oct.  8,  1800. 

Dear  Sir  : 

I  yesterday  received  a  letter  from  the  Secretary  of  State,  dated 
the  1 6th  of  Augt.  respecting  the  Jewels  for  the  Bey  of  Tunis  ; 
tho'  the  President  is  not  satisfied  with  the  claim,  he  thinks  it 
prudent  under  the  circumstances  of  the  case  that  the  Articles 
enumerated  in  Mr.  Eaton's  list  should  be  purchased  ;  but  as  in 
your  letter  of  the  7th  of  June  you  express  a  hope,  in  consequence 
of  the  arrival  of  the  Hero,  richly  laden  with  stores  at  Tunis,  that 
the  Jewels  might  not  be  insisted  upon,  I  shall  take  measures  that 
the  Tagan  shall  be  mounted  as  soon  as  possible  according  to  the 
Bey's  directions  and  wait  till  I  receive  your  answer  and  opinion, 
whether  under  present  circumstances  it  will  be  adviseable  to  pro- 
ceed in  the  execution  of  the  Commission  for  the  Jewels.  If  you 
have  any  information  that  leads  you  to  believe  that  the  claim  is 
not  relinquished,  I  think  it  will  be  our  duty  in  consequence  of 
the  President's  instruction  to  provide  them.  I  submit  to  your 
consideration  whether  it  will  not  be  prudent  that  you  should  im- 
mediately inform  Eaton  that  I  have  received  orders  to  purchase 
the  Jewels  and  other  articles  enumerated  in  his  List,  at  the  same 
time  suggesting  that  a  twelvemonth  is  required  by  the  manufac- 
turers to  prepare  them,  that  the  greatest  difficulty  and  expense 
will  attend  the  execution  of  the  commission,  none  of  the  articles 
being  made  in  America,  and  some  of  them  no  where  made  except 
by  order,  and  that  he  should  by  all  suitable  means  discourage  the 
expectation  that  we  should  on  any  occasion  make  the  like  present 
in  future. 

With  great  Respect  &  Esteem  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  86. 

London,  Oct.  18,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Parliament  is   summoned   to  meet  on  the  nth  of   November. 
This  sudden  measure  may  have  been  called  for  by  the  unexpected 


320  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

and  extraordinary  political  situation  of  the  country  as  well  as  by 
the  alarming  distress  which  still  continues  from  the  scarcity  and 
high  price  of  provisions. 

We  cannot  suppose  that  the  signature  of  the  Convention  be- 
tween England  and  Denmark  has  wrought  any  change  in  the 
sentiments  of  the  latter,  concerning  the  question  in  dispute,  and 
circumstances  daily  manifest  themselves,  which  prove  the  pre- 
carious nature  of  the  friendly  connection  that  subsists  between 
England  and  the  three  Northern  Powers. 

The  appointment  of  Count  Cobenzel  to  succeed  Baron  Thugut 
in  the  Cabinet  of  Vienna,  if  it  be  not  merely  an  ostensible  meas- 
ure, goes  far  to  confirm  the  opinion  that  Austria  has  resolved  to 
conclude  a  separate  Peace  with  France,  and  tho'  neither  govern- 
ment disclosed  what  has  passed,  it  is  understood  that  the  cor- 
respondence between  Paris  and  London  is  suspended  if  not 
entirely  broken  off. 

This  country  has  not  for  a  long  time  grown  sufficient  corn  to 
feed  its  inhabitants  ;  it  has  been  usual  to  have  corn  enough  for 
three  months'  consumption  when  the  new  crop  is  gathered  ;  but 
the  harvest  of  1799  having  been  very  short,  (not  more  than  half  a 
crop)  and  with  the  savings  of  former  years  nearly  or  quite  con- 
sumed before  the  last  harvest  was  gathered,  the  country  has  been 
obliged  to  begin  immediately  upon  the  new  crop,  which,  tho'  a 
good  one,  will  not  be  sufficient  for  a  year's  food,  much  less  for 
the  supply  of  fifteen  months  ;  and  should  the  next  be  a  late  or 
short  harvest,  there  will  be  still  greater  distress  than  the  present, 
which  without  doubt  is  encreased  by  the  apprehension  of  these 
events. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Oct.  21,  1800. 

My  Lord  : 

The  President  of  the  United  States  having  with  the  most  lively 
concern  heard  of  the  late  desperate  attack  upon  the  Person  of  the 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  32 1 

King,  has  given  me  orders  to  present  his  unfeigned  congratula- 
tions to  his  Majesty  upon  his  happy  escape  from  the  blow  by 
which  his  life  was  so  seriously  endangered.  Participating  as  I  do 
in  the  sentiments  which  upon  this  occasion  I  am  charged  to  ex- 
press, I  receive  peculiar  satisfaction  in  obeying  this  instruction, 
which  I  pray  your  Lordship  to  be  assured  alike  proceeds  from 
the  high  Respect  for  his  Majesty  entertained  by  the  American 
Government,  and  the  friendly  interest  it  at  all  times  takes  in 
whatever  affects  the  welfare  and  happiness  of  the  nation  to  which 
his  Majesty's  life  is  on  every  account  so  justly  dear. 

With  the  most  distinguished  consideration  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  87. 

London,  Oct.  26,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

A  day  or  two  after  the  information  that  a  Treaty  had  been 
signed  between  France  &  America,  I  received  your  letter  of  the 
1 6th*  of  August,  and  finding  upon  enquiry  that  the  King  had 
been  congratulated  upon  his  escape  from  the  attempt  to  assas- 
sinate him,  by  almost  every  other  State  in  amity  with  Great  Britain, 
I  thought  it  adviseable,  conformably  to  the  President's  directions, 
to  present  his  congratulations  likewise.  The  Copy  of  my  letter 
to  Lord  Grenville  and  of  his  answer  are  annexed.  The  occasion 
seemed  to  me  a  suitable  one  not  only  to  renew  the  assurance  of 
our  friendship,  but  also  to  endeavour  to  discover  the  temper  with 
which  our  Reconciliation  with  France  is  likely  to  be  treated  ;  I 
make  no  unfavorable  inference  from  the  tenor  of  the  answer. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 

*  The  first  letter  received  from  John  Marshall,  Esq.,  after  his  appointment 
to  the  office  of  Secretary  of  State — despatches  afterwards  addressed  to  him. 

VOL.  III. — 21 


322  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Downing  Street,  Oct.  25,  1800. 

Sir  : 

I  have  the  honour  to  inform  you  that  having  laid  your  letter  of 
the  21st  of  this  month  before  the  King,  I  have  received  his 
Majesty's  command  to  express  to  you  the  lively  sense  which  his 
Majesty  entertains  of  the  friendly  interest  which  that  letter  ex- 
presses on  the  part  of  the  Government  of  the  United  States,  on 
the  occasion  of  the  failure  of  the  late  attempt  against  his  Majesty's 
life. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be  with  great  consideration  &c 

Grenville. 


Lord  Grenville   to  R.  King. 

{Private.) 

Dropmore,  Oct.  25,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  received  from  a  Mr.  Soren,  with  whose  case  you  are 
acquainted,  a  printed  statement  of  his  business,  which  I  presume 
he  will  also  have  communicated  to  you.  Having  more  than  once 
interposed  in  his  favour,  in  a  matter  which  from  the  beginning 
had  no  relation  to  the  official  business  of  the  foreign  department, 
&  of  the  final  issue  of  which  I  was  ignorant  till  I  read  his 
Pamphlet,  I  cannot  but  be  hurt  at  the  insinuations  which  it  seems 
to  me  to  contain,  particularly  in  p.  25,  of  inattention  on  my  part 
to  his  sufferings  or  claims. 

I  have  directed  a  reference  to  be  made  to  the  dates  of  the  cor- 
respondence on  the  subject,  by  which  it  appears  that  Mr.  Soren's 
letter,  dated  Sept.  19,  was  by  me  referred  to  the  King's  advocate 
by  a  special  letter  of  reference  on  the  25th  of  the  same  month — 
and  that  finding  from  his  opinion  that  all  means  of  legal  redress 
were  shut  against  Mr.  Soren,  I  wrote  myself  to  Mr.  Dundas  to 
recommend  the  case  to  his  attention  as  one  which  might  receive 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  323 

some  redress  by  orders  from  his  department,  tho'  from  the  foreign 
office  it  could  not.  This  letter  was  dated  the  27th  September 
1798. 

I  trouble  you  with  this  detail  because  it  was  at  your  desire  that 
I  first  interested  myself  in  a  business  which  (if  I  had  not  been  de- 
sirous of  contributing  my  endeavours  to  procure  to  Mr.  Soren 
some  redress  for  the  injuries  he  has  suffered)  I  might  in  the  first 
instance  have  returned  to  you,  as  not  coming  within  the  line  of 
my  official  duty. 

The  sort  of  feeling  which  sometimes  urges  a  complainant  to 
attack  those  who  have  most  endeavoured  to  serve  him  is  not  un- 
common, &  I  have  had  too  much  experience  of  the  circumstances 
of  a  public  situation  to  be  much  surprized  by  it.  Certainly  it 
will  not  lessen  my  wishes  to  be  still  of  some  use  to  a  person  who 
seems  to  me  to  have  been  hardly  used. 

Believe  me  ever,  my  dear  Sir,  most  truly  &  sincerely  yrs, 

Grenville. 


R.  King  to  Thomas  White,  Master  of  Lloyd's  Coffee  House. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Oct.  29,  1800. 

Sir: 

I  have  had  the  honour  to  receive  your  letter  of  the  25th  instant, 
together  with  the  piece  of  plate,  destined  by  the  Merchants  and 
Underwriters  of  Lloyd's  Coffee  House,  as  a  Testimony  of  their 
sense  of  the  gallant  conduct  of  the  Commander  of  the  American 
Frigate  Constellation  in  capturing  the  French  frigate  LTnsur- 
gente,  and  thereby  increasing  the  security  of  Commerce  in  the 
West  India  seas. 

I  beg  of  you,  Sir,  to  do  me  the  favour  to  inform  the  Merchants 
and  Underwriters  from  whom  this  tribute  of  respect  proceeds, 
that  I  will  avail  myself  of  the  earliest  opportunity  to  forward  it  to 
Captain  Truxton  together  with  a  Copy  of  the  Letter  that  you 
have  written  to  me  on  this  occasion. 

The  Portsmouth  frigate  having  merely  touched  off  Weymouth 
immediately  after  sailed  on  her  voyage  to  America. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


324  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  %%. 

London,  Oct.  31,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Convention  with  France  having  been  published  in  Paris, 
immediately  found  its  way  into  the  English  newspapers,  in  which 
it  appeared  the  day  after  Mr.  Ellsworth's  arrival  in  London  ;  its 
authenticity  being  confirmed  by  him,  it  became  my  duty  to  en- 
deavour with  as  much  diligence  and  as  extensively  as  in  my  power 
to  communicate  *  such  sentiments  and  opinions  respecting  it  as  would 
be  likely  to  procure  to  it  a  favorable  consideration. 

After  conversing  with  the  Lord  Chancellor  and  some  other  of 
the  Ministers,  /  found  an  occasion  to  mention  the  subject  to  the 
King,  and  tho'  this  was  not  altogether  regular  I  had  no  reason  to 
be  dissatisfied  with  having  done  so. 

After  waiting  several  days  during  which  /might  see  and  con- 
verse with  the  persons  about  the  Court,  I  yesterday  asked  a  con- 
ference with  Lord  Grenvilh,  which  took  place  this  morning.  The 
conversation  began  by  my  observing  that  I  wished  to  speak  with 
him  respecting  our  Reconciliation  with  France,  in  order  that  I 
might  communicate  to  my  Government  which  would  be  desirous  to 
understand  the  light  in  which  it  was  considered  by  the  British 
Government.  This  beginning  led  to  a  free  and  apparently  candid 
conversation  respecting  it,  which  was  followed  by  Lord  G's  saying 
to  me  that  he  saw  nothing  in  the  Convention  inconsistent  with  the 
Treaty  between  them  and  us,  or  which  afforded  them  any  ground  of 
complaint ;  nor  did  he  perceive  in  it  anything  that  might  not  have 
been  expected,  unless  it  was  the  Article  respecting  Convoys,  which 
we  were  certainly  free  to  make,  but  which  nevertheless,  just  at  the 
present  juncture  had  somewhat  of  a  less  friendly  appearance  than 
might  have  been  wished.  I  expressed  my  satisfaction  that  I  had 
not  been  mistaken  in  believing  that  the  British  Govern?nent  would 
find  nothing  to  object  to  in  the  Convention,  and  remarked  that  the 
article  of  free  Bottoms  having  made  a  part  of  the  old  Treaty,  it 
was  natural  enough  that  it  should  be  inserted  in  the  new  one,  and 
the  provision  respecting  Convoys  seemed  to  be  no  more  than  a 
convenient  consequence  of  that  article,  by  which  the  visit  of  the 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  325 

belligerent  is  not  only  restrained  in  its  object,  but  placed  under 
special  Regulations  as  to  the  manner  in  which  it  shall  be  made  ; 
and  moreover  that  Convoys  would  be  indispensable  to  protect  our 
Trade  against  French  Corsairs  in  the  West  Indies,  which  could 
not  at  present  be  controuled  by  France. 

Lord  G.  who  had  not  manifested  any  marks  of  his  disappoint- 
ment or  discontent  concerning  the  Convention,  shewed  no  in- 
clination to  controvert  what  I  had  just  said  contenting  himself  by 
repeating,  but  without  seeming  to  place  much  importance  upon 
the  observation,  what  he  had  before  said  with  regard  to  their  mis- 
understanding with  the  Northern  Powers. 

As  the  subject  of  Convoys  was  before  us,  I  thought  the  occasion 
not  an  unfavorable  one,  concisely  to  suggest  certain  reflection 
which  had  passed  in  my  mind  concerning  it,  and  which  are  the 
foundations  of  the  observations  contained  in  my  No.  80.  After 
some  general  Remarks  respecting  the  Rights  of  Neutrals  and 
Belligerents,  I  observed  that  it  seemed  to  7ne  practicable  to  devise 
Regulations  by  which  the  Trade  of  neutrals  might  be  secured  by 
Convoys  without  affecting  injuriously  the  Right  of  Search.  It 
might  for  example  be  stipulated  that  no  Ship  should  be  entitled 
to  sail  under  Convoy,  which  should  not  possess  a  certificate,  in 
an  agreed  form,  attesting  her  neutrality  and  the  neutrality  and 
innocence  of  her  Cargo  ;  the  Consuls  or  other  Agents  of  the  Bel- 
ligerent residing  in  the  neutral  Countries  might  assist  in  taking 
the  Proofs  upon  which  such  certificate  should  be  granted  ;  and  it 
might  moreover  be  settled  that  the  visit  of  the  Belligerent  should 
be  confined  to  the  Convoying  ship,  the  commander  of  which  on 
exhibiting  the  Certificates  of  the  Ships  under  his  Convoy  should 
with  them  be  entitled  to  proceed  unmolested.  Other  Regulations 
might  be  decided  for  the  places  where  the  agents  of  the  Belliger- 
ent could  not  on  account  of  the  War  assist  in  receiving  the  proofs 
of  neutrality. 

Lord  G.  without  hesitation  admitted  the  fairness  of  the  Project, 
adding  that  it  would  be  indifferent  to  them  as  belligerents,  whether 
the  examination  was  made  by  their  agents  before  the  sailing  of  the 
Neutral  Ship,  or  upon  the  Ocean  by  their  naval  officers. 

At  the  close  of  the  Conference  Lord  G.  spoke  to  me  in  favorable 
terms  of  Mr.  Merry,  the  successor  of  Mr.  Liston,  saying  that  he 
flattered  himself  that  we  should  find  him  an  agreeable  man.     I 


326  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

mentioned  to  him  that  I  expected  to  receive  farther  instructions 
respecting  the  execution  of  the  6th  article  of  our  Treaty,  and  pro- 
posed that  Mr.  Merry  should  wait  till  they  arrived  ;  to  which  he 
consented,  tho'  it  was  intended  that  Mr.  Merry  should  have  em- 
barked for  America  in  a  few  days. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

Mr.  Strickland  to  King  —  Reprinting  his  Paper  on  Agriculture  in  United 
States — Objects  to  minute  Division  of  Land — King  to  W.  Smith — Has 
declined  to  advance  Funds  to  pay  for  Articles  ordered  by  Mr.  Eaton  for 
Bey  of  Tunis — They  should  be  paid  for  in  London  or  Paris,  not  through 
Traders — Troup  to  King — Strictures  on  Hamilton's  Letter  to  the  President 
— General  Impression  injurious  to  him  and  his  Party — Cabot  to  King — 
Treaty  with  France  cannot  be  a  "Subject  of  Joy" — King  to  Secy,  of  State 
— Reports  his  Readiness  to  confer  with  Ld.  Grenville  on  6th  Article — 
Relations  of  Austria  and  England  with  France  about  Peace — Latter  wants 
separate  Treaties — England  seems  ready  now  to  support  the  first  Consul 
— King  will  push  Conference  on  6th  Article,  but  hopes  for  little  while 
War  lasts — Schoenbron  to  King — Announces  to  him  the  Appointment  of 
Minister  Resident  and  Consul  General  from  Denmark  to  U.  S. — King  to 
Secy,  of  War — Maps — W.  Wilberforce  to  King — Abolition  of  the  slave 
Trade — King  to  Eaton — Gives  Reasons  for  not  ordering  the  Jewels  made 
and  sent  to  Tunis — The  President  does  not  see  the  Necessity  but  is  im- 
pressed with  the  Impolicy  of  sending  them — Presents  from  America  possibly 
sufficient — Urges  him  to  try  to  extricate  the  Country  from  Promises  of 
others — To  Secy,  of  State — Minister  from  Denmark,  why  not  simply  a 
Consul — Wilberforce  to  King — Friendly  Greetings — How  to  prosecute 
Masters  of  Vessels  breaking  the  Law  to  prevent  slave  Trade  by  American 
Vessels — Would  reporting  Names,  etc. ,  to  the  Abolition  Society  ? — Troup 
to  King — Adams  and  Pinckney  will  be  chosen — Hamilton  prefers  Jeffer- 
son to  Adams — Many  Answers  to  his  Pamphlet — King  to  Mr.  Netzel 
relative  to  Conduct  of  two  American  Vessels  against  a  Swedish  Cutter. 

William  Strickland  to  R.  King. 

York,  Nov.  i,  1800. 
Dear  Sir: 

I  received  a  letter  yesterday  from  Mr.  Nicol  informing  me  of 
your  intention  of  reprinting  my  Paper  on  the  Agriculture  of  the 
United  States,  and  requesting  that  I  would  make  any  alterations 
I  thought  necessary.  I  have  accordingly  carefully  revised  every 
part  of  it,  but  see  no  reasons  for  making  any  alterations  in  it 

327 


328  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

beyond  literal  or  verbal  mistakes  in  the  printing  nor  any  material 
additions.  ...  If  you  choose  to  prefix  to  the  republication  any 
introduction  I  shall  be  satisfied  with  your  doing  it  in  any  terms 
you  may  think  proper  ;  were  your  name  annexed  to  it,  it  certainly 
would  be  flattering  to  me  to  be  seen  in  your  company,  but  as  you 
may  have  reasons  for  wishing  your  name  not  to  appear,  which 
might  not  influence  a  private  individual,  I  do  not  expect  it,  if 
you  do  not  approve  of  it.     .     .     . 

I  must  request  that  you  would  be  so  good  as  to  communicate 
to  me  hereafter  any  observations  your  countrymen  may  think 
proper  to  make  on  what  I  have  said  ;  without  your  assistance  I 
may  not  be  able  to  come  at  the  knowledge  of  them  ;  if  they  con- 
vict me  of  any  misstatement  of  facts,  I  shall  pay  them  all  possible 
attention  &  take  care  to  correct  what  I  have  asserted  in  a  future 
volume  of  the  publication  of  the  Board  of  Agriculture  ;  opinions 
are  one's  own,  &  those  I  may  not  be  ready  to  retract  ;  the  former 
is  possible,  as  the  information  of  a  traveller,  notwithstanding  all 
his  care,  may  be  inaccurate,  but  I  do  not  think  it  probable  ;  the 
latter,  I  am  well  aware  will  not  accord  with  the  sentiments  of 
many  of  your  countrymen  ;  but  that  I  cannot  help  ;  they  may  not 
be  less  substantially  founded  on  that  account ;  what  will  be  most 
disputed  will  be  what  I  have  said  on  the  division  of  landed 
property  ;  but  I  fully  believe  that  the  greatest  evils  will  arise  to 
America  from  this  minute  division  of  property  :  it  is  a  system 
that  never  has  been  authorized  by  the  Laws  of  any  country  ;  & 
were  it  practised  in  this  would  in  a  short  time  reduce  us  to  bar- 
barism &  want.  It  is  impracticable  in  any  country,  that  wishes 
to  be  well  cultivated,  to  be  commercial  or  manufacturing  ;  and 
however  beautiful  in  theory,  it  will  be  found  in  practice,  that  to 
have  property  well  cultivated  it  ought  to  be  of  sufficient  extent 
to  command  the  attention  of  a  man  of  capital.  I  have  never  seen 
an  instance  of  the  possessions  of  Freeholders  being  as  well 
cultivated  or  as  productive  of  commodities  for  the  market,  as 
the  occupations  of  the  tenantry  of  equal  extent,  &  they  are 
invariably  worse  cultivated  in  proportion  as  they  are  small  : 
because  the  capital  employed  in  them  is  small,  &  the  powers  of  the 
capital  decrease  in  greater  proportion  than  the  extent  of  the  land 
diminishes  ;  that  is  to  say,  double  the  capital  will  more  effectually 
cultivate  double  the  quantity  of  land  than  half  the   capital  will 


1800]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  329 

half  the  quantity.  This  equal  division  of  land  has  been  custom- 
ary among  the  lower  orders  in  some  parts  of  France,  &  in 
proof  of  the  evils  attending  it,  I  beg  leave  to  refer  to  you  various 
chapters,  in  the  second  part  of  the  first  Volume  of  Mr.  Young's 
Travels  in  France,  the  best  work  he  ever  wrote  &  the  best  work 
of  the  kind  ever  published.     .     .     . 

I  am  ever  your  much  obliged 

Wm.  Strickland. 


R.  King  to  William  Smith. 

London,  Nov.  7,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Mr.  Walmesby  of  the  House  of  Mawhood,  Walmesby  &  Co.  of 
London,  called  on  me  yesterday  with  a  letter  from  Mr.  Eaton  (a 
copy  of  which  is  annexed)  to  enquire  whether  I  would  advance 
the  Funds  to  enable  them  to  execute  Mr.  Eaton's  orders.  The 
articles  are  precisely  the  same  as  those  contained  in  the  list  sent  to 
me  through  your  hands.  My  answer  was  in  the  negative,  accom- 
panied with  a  recommendation  to  Mr.  Walmesby  to  suspend  at 
least  the  execution  of  the  order,  which  he  undoubtedly  will  do. 
The  Tagan  is  in  the  hands  of  the  workmen  and  will  be  mounted 
in  about  two  months  ;  I  will  either  send  it  to  you  or  directly  to 
Tunis  as  you  shall  prefer. 

Eaton  must  not  be  allowed  to  enter  into  arrangements  of  this 
sort.  If  these  articles  are  supplied,  they  should  be  obtained  and 
paid  for  either  here  or  at  Paris  ;  contracts  formed  with  Traders 
frequenting  the  coast  of  Barbary  will  subject  us  to  unnecessary 
expenses,  if  they  are  even  executed  with  fidelity.  As  there  is  no 
regular  course  of  exchange  between  Barbary  &  Europe,  we  should 
be  obliged  to  send  money  to  the  Consuls  to  enable  them  to  per- 
form their  engagements  :  the  obtaining  the  specie  would  be  liable 
to  difficulties  and  disadvantages,  and  the  sending  of  it  attended 
with  some  risque  and  a  considerable  expense.  As  Eaton's  letter 
.  .  is  dated  several  months  after  his  letter  on  the  same 
subject  to  me,  I  am  apprehensive  that  we  shall  be  obliged  to  pro- 
cure the  Jewels  ;  but  being  uncertain  whether  the  ship  Hero, 
with  the  presents  from  America,  had  then  arrived  at  Tunis,  I 
cannot  deduce  from  his  letter  any  conclusive  inference,  and  must 
therefore  still  wait  for  your  advice. 


330  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 


As  the  Convention  with  France  has  been  published,  you  have 
by  this  time  seen  and  considered  it.  Mr.  Ellsworth,  whose  health 
is  precarious,  being  afraid  of  a  winter's  passage,  was  landed  in 
this  country,  where  he  will  remain  thro'  the  winter,  unless  his 
complaint  shd.  oblige  him  to  go  to  the  South  of  France. 

It  will  give  you  pleasure  to  know  that  this  Government  finds 
nothing  in  the  Convention  with  France,  which  in  its  opinion  we 
were  not  free  to  stipulate  or  that  gives  to  England  any  ground  of 
complaint ;  in  an  official  conference  with  Ld.  Glle.  he  gave  me 
this  opinion  which  I  have  transmitted  to  our  Govt.  Mr.  Ells- 
worth has  been  at  Court  where  he  was  received  not  only  well,  but 
with  distinction.  Murray  has  resumed  his  station  at  the  Hague. 
The  rest  of  the  Mission  excepting  Mr.  E,  returned  home  in  the 
Frigate. 

Yr.  obt.  faithful  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  9  Nov.,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  The  subject  which  now  occupies  the  public  mind  and 
excites  much  attention  is  a  letter  from  General  Hamilton  to  the 
President,*  which  you  find  annexed  to  this  letter.  It  seems  Gen- 
eral  Hamilton   did  not  intend,   although  he  had  a  number  of 

*The  Pamphlet  was  entitled  a  "Letter  from  Alexander  Hamilton  concerning 
the  public  Conduct  and  Character  of  John  Adams,  Esq.,  President  of  the 
United  States."  It  was  published  on  the  22d  of  October,  1800,  and  contained 
a  virulent  attack  upon  him,  personally  as  well  as  politically.  Hamilton 
claimed  that  it  was  printed  not  for  general  distribution,  but  for  convenience  in 
sending  it  to  his  confidential  friends.  Mr.  J.  C.  Hamilton,  in  his  Life  of  A. 
Hamilton,  vol.  vii.,  p.  407,  in  a  note,  says:  "That  a  spy  had  been  placed  in 
Hamilton's  office  is  to  be  inferred  from  the  early  disclosure  to  Burr  of  the 
printing  of  this  paper,  &c." 

"Col.  Burr  ascertained  the  contents  of  this  Pamphlet  and  that  it  was  in  press. 
Its  immediate  publication  he  knew  must  distract  the  Federal  party  and  thus 
promote  the  Republican  cause  in  those  States  where  the  election  had  not  yet 
taken  place.  Arrangements  were  accordingly  made  for  a  copy  as  soon  as  the 
printing  of  it  was  completed,  and  when  obtained  John  Swartout,  Robert  Swart- 
out  and  Matthew  L.  Davis,  by  appointment,  met  Col.  Burr  at  his  own  house. 
The  Pamphlet  was  read,  and  extracts  were  made  for  the  press." — M.  L.  Davis, 
Life  of  Aaron  Burr,  vol.  ii,  p.  65. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  33 1 

copies  printed,  that  the  letter  should  come  into  general  circulation 
until  after  the  election.  His  object  was  to  have  it  circulated  in 
the  mean  time  amongst  his  friends  in  order  to  give  them  a  just 
view  of  Mr.  Adams'  character.  His  printers,  however,  in  all 
probability  played  him  a  trick,  and  it  happened  that  the  Aurora 
got  a  copy,  and  proceeded  to  publish  extracts  from  it.  This  led 
to  the  general  circulation  of  it.  When  publication  of  the  letter 
was  first  announced  to  the  General,  he  was  arguing  a  cause  at 
Albany.  At  first  he  was  apparently  confused  but  soon  afterwards 
he  recollected  himself,  and  I  think  he  appears  pleased  with  it. 
After  reading  the  letter  I  expressed  to  him  my  apprehension  that  it 
would  in  the  present  state  of  things  do  harm  to  him  personally, 
and  to  the  federal  cause  generally.  He  replied  that  he  had  well 
considered  it  and  had  no  doubt  it  would  be  productive  of  good. 
The  letter  has  been  read  by  all  parties  with  prodigious  avidity, 
and  the  spread  of  it  has  been  extensive. 

The  general  impression  at  Albany  among  our  friends  was  that 
it  would  be  injurious  and  they  lamented  the  publication  of  it. 
Upon  my  return  home  I  find  a  much  stronger  disapprobation  of 
it  expressed  every  where.  In  point  of  imprudence  it  is  coupled 
with  the  pamphlet  formerly  published  by  the  General  respecting 
himself;  and  not  a  man  in  the  whole  circle  of  our  friends  but 
condemns  it.  The  impression  it  has  made  among  our  friends  in 
other  states,  I  have  not  yet  learned.  Our  enemies  are  universally 
in  triumph.  I  have  little  or  no  doubt  the  latter  will  lay  the 
foundation  of  a  serious  opposition  to  General  Hamilton  amongst 
the  federalists,  and  that  his  usefulness  hereafter  will  be  greatly 
lessened.  Noah  Webster  is  open  mouthed  against  him,  and  is 
supposed  to  be  the  author  of  Aristides.     .     .     . 

My  good  friend,  my  heart  really  bleeds  at  the  prospect  before 
us.  In  this  state  everything  for  the  present  is  lost.  Mr.  Jay  is 
determined  to  retire  and  so  universal  is  the  dissatisfaction  with 
his  administration  that  it  has  deterred  every  man  of  the  federal 
party,  who  has  pretentions  to  office,  from  suffering  himself  to  be 
a  candidate.  The  Lt.  Governor  (S.  Van  Rensselaer)  has  decidedly 
refused  to  be  a  candidate.  The  consequence  is  that  no  federal 
candidate  will  be  supported — and  from  all  appearances  it  is 
probable  that  the  old  Governor  Clinton  will  be  again  brought 
forward. 


332  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

After  stating  the  general  opinions  relative  to  the  probable 
vote  for  President  in  several  States,  Mr.  Troup  says  : 

Upon  the  whole  in  my  opinion  the  chances  are  considerably  in 
favor  of  Jefferson,  and  I  believe  little  short  of  a  miracle  will 
exclude  him  considering  the  manner  in  which  we  are  distracted. 

.     .     .     The  President  lately  passed  through  this  for  the  seat  of 

government,  but  he  made  no  stay  with  us.     On  the  contrary  he 

appeared  to  travel  with  the  expedition  of  an  express.    When  here 

he  met  with  General  Hamilton's  letter,  which  had  just  begun  to 

circulate.     .     .     . 

Yours 

R.  T. 

P.  S.  General  Hamilton's  letter  appears  to  have  been  written 
and  put  into  print  without  advising  with  any  of  his  friends  here. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Nov.  13,  1800. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  hardly  know  how  any  kind  of  Treaty  with  France  can  be  "  a 
subject  of  joy  "  ;  it  may  be  the  seed  of  sorrow  &  if  the  war  is 
continued  in  Europe,  as  it  ought  to  be,  I  expect  a  copious  harvest; 
we  are  on  sufficiently  ill  terms  with  G.  B.  already  &  on  such 
with  France  as  are  best  situated  to  our  condition. 

I  send  you  the  Centinel  of  this  day  which  gives  you  a  good  idea 
of  the  presidential  election  :  the  federal  vote  will  prevail  &  I 
think  Adams  be  1st  &  Pinckney  2d.     .     .     . 

Yours  truly 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  89. 

London,  Nov.  22,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  duly  received  your  letters  to  No.  5  inclusive  ;  Soon  after 

the  receipt  of  No.  2.,  which  was  not  before  the  6th  instant,  I  sent 

a  note   to   Lord   Grenville,  informing   him  that  I  was  ready,  in 

consequence  of  the  answer  that  I  had  received  to  my  Despatches, 

transmitting  to  America  what  had  passed  between  him   and  me 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  333 

concerning  the  6th  article,  to  resume  our  conferences  upon  that 
subject.  His  Lordship  appointed  an  early  day  for  that  purpose  ; 
but  no  meeting  has  yet  taken  place  owing  to  his  having  been 
wholly  engaged  in  the  Negotiation  of  Peace,  begun  by  Austria,  but 
which,  if  we  may  credit  the  declaration  of  the  Emperor,  will  not 
proceed  unless  jointly  with  England.  To  this  mode  of  treating 
France  has  hitherto  objected.  The  negotiation  upon  this  subject 
that  took  place  before  the  meeting  of  Parliament  is  now  published 
and  a  copy  of  the  correspondence  is  herewith  transmitted. 

Upon  the  arrival  of  Count  Cobenzel  at  Paris,  whither  he  was 
invited  by  letters  which  met  him  on  his  way  to  Luneville,  he 
repeated  the  Declaration  before  made,  that  the  Emperor  would 
not  treat  of  Peace  separately  and  without  England,  and  a  messen- 
ger was  dispatched  by  him  to  London  for  the  purpose  of  announ- 
cing this  Declaration  ;  in  answer  to  which  it  is  understood  that 
England  immediately  signified  her  readiness  to  send  Mr.  Gren- 
ville  as  minister  on  her  part  to  Luneville.  Some  delay  occurred 
in  the  arrival  of  Count  Cobenzel's  second  courier,  who  it  is 
thought  brought  the  consent  of  France  to  the  admission  of  the 
English  minister  at  Luneville,  but  upon  certain  conditions  in  the 
nature  of  preliminaries  between  the  two  countries  ;  after  several 
days'  deliberation  the  English  Cabinet  has  returned  an  answer  by 
the  same  courier,  the  purport  of  which  is  entirely  unknown.  The 
desire  of  England  is  to  negotiate  jointly,  while  France  manifests 
strong  preference  to  separate  negotiation.  If  the  conjecture  be 
well  founded,  that  a  preliminary  negotiation  is  going  on  by 
couriers,  the  principal  points  may  probably  be  settled  beforehand, 
and  the  business  of  the  meeting  at  Luneville  thereby  freed  from 
the  chief  difficulties  it  would  otherwise  have  to  encounter. 

Upon  the  probability  of  the  conclusion  of  Peace,  well-informed 
persons  continue  to  differ  extremely  in  their  opinions.  Austria 
will  make  Peace  if  she  can  make  a  good  bargain,  which,  as  in 
former  wars,  she  may  probably  be  able  to  do  ;  England,  I  mean 
the  Government,  desires  to  make  peace  with  Buonaparte,  and, 
from  the  language  made  use  of  by  the  English  Ministry  one 
would  almost  be  led  to  think  that  she  is  now  willing  to  counte- 
nance and  support  the  First  Consul  upon  the  very  principles  which 
have  induced  her  to  oppose  those  who  hitherto  have  been  at  the 
head  of  affairs  of  France. 


334  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Not  a  moment  shall  be  lost  on  my  part  in  the  endeavor  to 
concert  a  satisfactory  arrangement  respecting  the  6th  article  of 
the  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Commerce  ;  but  as  the  subject  is  of 
inferior  consideration,  it  will  be  obliged  to  give  place  to  the  busi- 
ness, which  at  present  engrosses  the  attention  of  the  Cabinet. 

I  am  particularly  thankful  to  you,  for  the  trouble  you  have 
taken  in  looking  over  the  correspondence  respecting  the  subject 
of  your  No.  5,  as  well  as  for  the  able  consideration  you  have 
bestowed  upon  it.  As  soon  as  I  discover  an  opportunity  that 
promises  an  impartial  consideration  of  the  subject,  I  will  again 
bring  it  forward,  tho'  I  am  apprehensive  that  we  shall  obtain  little 
satisfaction  so  long  as  the  war  continues. 

Whatever  may  have  been*  the  temper  or  inclination  of  this  Gov- 
ernment in  a  different  posture  of  its  affairs  and  before  the  Conven- 
tion with  France  was  published,  its  sentiments  in  respect  to  that 
Instrument  and  the  distinguished  manner  in  which  Mr.  Ellsworth 
has  been  received  by  the  Court  has  a  tendency  to  shew  that, 
at  present,  it  has  no  animosity  nor  unusual  prejudice  against  us  ;  on 
the  contrary  those  who  disseminate  its  opinions  encourage  the 
people  to  bear  their  distresses  arising  from  the  dearness  of  Bread, 
by  holding  forth  to  them  the  abundant  harvest  of  America,  and 
the  prospect  of  a  great  supply  from  thence. 

At  present  there  in  an  entire  interruption  of  Diplomatic  inter- 
course between  this  country  and  Sweden.  I  will  notwithstand- 
ing devise  some  means  of  sending  the  answer  you  recommend  to 
the  complaint  of  that  Government. 

Some  short  time  before   Col.  Pickering  went  out  of  office,  he 

informed  me  that  as  soon  as  good  Bills  could  be  had,  he  would 

send  the  annual  remittances  usually  made  to  our  Bankers  in  this 

country     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

e.  p.  schoenbron  to  r.  klng. 

London,  Nov.  23,  1800. 
Monsieur  : 

S.  E.  Monsieur  le  Comte  de  Wedel  Jarlsberg  en  faisant  part 

dans  son  terns  a.  sa  Cour  de  la  reponse  que  vous  a  donnee  Votre 

Gouvernement,  Monsieur  par  rapport  a  l'intention  de  Roi,  de 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


l8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  335 

nomraer  un  Consul  qui  dut  resider  dans  les  Etats-Unis  de 
l'Amerique,  a,  temoigne  avoir  remarque  le  desir  du  dit  Gouverne- 
ment,  d'  entrer  avec  le  Danemark  dans  les  relations  plus  directes 
qu'il  n'en  a  existe  jusqu'a  present.  Les  sentimens  *  etant  egalement 
ceux  de  Sa  Majeste,  Elle  a  resolu  de  ne  pas  se  borner  a  la  nomi- 
nation d'un  Consul,  mais  d'accrediter  aupres  des  Etats-Unis  un 
Employe  revetu  d'  un  caractere  Diplomatique.  Elle  a  fait  choix 
pour  ce  poste  du  Sieur  Bluher  Olsen,  jusqu'ici  Son  Consul  a 
Maroc,  et  celui-ci  vient  d'etre  nomme  Ministre  Resident  et  Con- 
sul General  du  Roi,  pres  le  gouvernement  Americain. 

En  m'  acquittant  des  Ordres  de  ma  Cour  de  vous  faire  part, 
Monsieur,  de  cette  nomination,  j'ai  a  vous  prier  de  vouloir  bien 
donner  a  connaitre  a  Votre  Gouvernement,  que  le  Roi  se  flatte,  qu'il 
la  regarde  comme  une  marque  ouverte  des  dispositions  amicales 
de  Sa  Majeste,  et  qui'  Elle  espere  que  le  Sieur  Olsen  sera  accueille* 
d'une  maniere  conforme  a  ces  sentimens. 

L'  absence  de  Monsieur  le  Comte  de  Wedel  Jarlsberg,  ayant 
fait  tomber  sur  moi  la  presente  notification,  je  m'  empresse  de 
profiter  de  cette  occasion  de  vous  temoigner,  Monsieur,  le  plus 
vif  interet,  que  je  prens  a  la  resolution  du  Roi  mon  maitre, 
d'etablir  ces  nouvelles  relations  d'amitie  entre  les  deux  Etats,  et  de 
vous  assurer  en  meme  terns  de  l'estime  et  de  la  plus  haute  con- 
sideration avec  lesquelles 

J'ai  l'honneur  d'etre,  &c.  &c. 

C.  S.  SCHOENBRON. 


R.  King  to  Secretary   of  War. 

London,  Nov.  24,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     I  have  taken  measures,  tho'  considerable  time  will  be 

required,  to  procure  another  collection  of  maps  for  your  office, 

but  with  the  utmost  diligence  I  apprehend  it  will  not  be  quite  as 

*  R.   King  to   His  Excellency  Count  Wedel  de  Jarlsberg,  Envoy 

from  Denmark. 

London,  Jan.  17,  1800. 

Sir: 

I  have  received,  by  the  last  mail  from  the  U.  S.,  an  answer  to  my  Dispatch 
which  inclosed  the  copy  of  your  letter  to  me,  intimating  the  Disposition  of  his 
Danish  Majesty,  to  appoint  a  Consul  to  reside  in  the  U.  S.,  and  I  am  author- 
ized to  assure  you  that  the  Consul  whom  his  D.  M.  shall  send  to  the  U.  S.  will 
be  readily  received. 

With  the  most  distinguished  Consn.  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


336  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

copious  as  the  collection  in  the  possession  of  Col.  McHenry,  some 
few  of  the  maps  being  scarce  and  difficult  to  be  met  with. 

I  have  the  honour  &c. 

R.  King. 


Wm.  Wilberforce  to  R.  King. 

Palace  Yd.,  Nov.  24,  1800. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

In  conversing  the  other  day  with  a  friend  concerning  the  abo- 
lition of  the  Slave  Trade,  he  said  he  would  ask  you  &  another 
person  to  dine  with  him  on  Saty.  next,  &  I  promised  to  be  of  the 
party.  Under  these  circumstances  it  occurs  to  me  that  I  ought 
to  remove  any  unpleasant  feelings  which  might  arise  in  your  mind 
from  an  Idea  that  I  had  mention'd  to  my  friend  some  particulars 
which  recently  took  place  in  connection  with  the  above  interest- 
ing subject.  I  recollected,  &  this  consideration  I  own  kept  me 
silent,  that  it  was  not  my  own  secret  &  that  it  did  not  affect  & 
involve  myself  only  but  others,  in  whose  case  there  was  not  in  any 
measure  the  same  motive  to  prompt  a  disclosure  (I  mean  the 
fear  of  appearing  to  have  kept  from  the  knowledge  of  a  friend 
what  ought  to  have  been  imparted  to  him  &  against  whom  the 
Disclosure  might  have  produced  unpleasant  &  even  in  a  degree 
injurious  Suspicions).  If  I  were  sure  of  being  able  within  a  day 
or  two  to  drive  up  to  get  a  sight  of  you,  I  would  wait  to  explain 
more  fully  in  person  ;  but  I  believe  you  will  understand  what  I 
have  said,  &  it  will  prevent  any  uncomfortable  sensations  of  the 
kind  I  have  mentioned.  I  trust  nothing  will  prevent  our  meeting 
on  Saty.,  and  I  am  with  cordial  esteem  &  regard,  my  dear  sir, 

yours  very  sincerely, 

W.  W. 

Either  before  we  meet  on  Saty.,  or  on  our  first  meetg.,  I  will  in 
3  words  state  to  you  how  I  find  matters  are  situated  in  relation  to 
the  subject  of  my  solicitude.  They  are  not  in  so  good  a  train  as 
I  would  wish. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  337 

R.  King  to  William  Eaton,  Esq. 

London,  Nov.  24,  1800. 
Sir  : 

Soon  after  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  6th  of  Oct.,  1799, 
which  I  did  not  receive  before  the  24th  of  May,  I  mentioned  the 
subject  in  a  letter  to  the  Secy,  of  State,  in  order  that  I  might 
learn  the  opinion  of  the  Government,  respecting  the  proposed 
present  of  Jewels  to  the  Bey  of  Tunis,  and  at  the  same  time  wrote 
to  Mr.  Smith,  our  Minister  at  Lisbon,  giving  it  as  my  opinion  that 
we  should  try  to  get  rid  of  this  and  of  every  similar  order,  as 
highly  impolitic,  if  not  unnecessary.  I  was  surprised  a  few  days 
ago  by  Mr.  Walmesby,  of  the  house  of  Mawhood,  Walmesby  & 
Co.,  calling  upon  me  to  shew  me  your  Letter  to  Mr.  Jno.  Jackson, 
their  agent,  desiring  him  to  procure  and  send  to  Tunis  the  Jewels 
and  other  articles  enumerated  in  your  letter  to  me.  I  not  only 
told  Mr.  Walmesby  that  I  could  not  supply  him  with  the  money 
to  make  the  purchase,  but  desired  that  they  would  suspend,  for 
the  present,  sending  the  articles  to  you  to  be  paid  for,  according 
to  your  request  at  Tunis. 

My  reasons  for  this  proceeding  are,  that  the  President  is  not 
satisfied  of  the  necessity,  and  strongly  impressed  with  the  im- 
policy of  the  measure,  and  tho'  he  has  authorised  me  to  complete 
it,  if  circumstances  require  it,  I  do  not  think  it  proper  to  do  so, 
until  I  am  ascertained  of  the  Effect  of  the  Presents  from  America 
which  had  not  arrived  at  the  date  of  your  letter  to  me.  The  ob- 
ject of  this  letter  is  then  to  ascertain  whether  we  cannot  avoid 
making  the  present  of  Jewels.  The  sabre  or  Tagan,  sent  here  to 
be  mounted,  has  been  sometime  in  hand,  and  will  be  finished  and 
sent  thro'  the  house  of  Mawhood,  Walmesby  &  Co.  in  a  few  weeks. 
No  measures  have  yet  been  taken  to  procure  the  Jewels,  as  we 
are  in  hopes  that  the  value  of  the  Presents  already  made,  will 
enable  you  to  obtain  a  release  from  this  pretended  engagement. 

We  persuade  ourselves  that  you  have  exerted,  and  will  continue 
to  exert  yourself,  upon  this  particular  subject,  and  tho'  you  can- 
not be  answerable  for  the  imprudence,  or  looseness  of  engage- 
ments made  by  other  Persons,  it  will  be  a  high  proof  of  your 
Talents,  if  you  should  be  able  to  extricate  us  from  Inconven- 
iences proceeding  from  their  misconceptions  and  errors. 

As  the  enclosures  of  your  letter  were  carried  by  Dr.  Shaw  from 

VOL.    III. — 22 


338  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Lisbon   to  Philadelphia,   I  know  nothing  more  respecting  their 

Business  than  what  is  expressed  in  your  letter  to  me.     I  wait  for 

your  reply  to  decide  whether  we  shall  be  obliged  to  furnish  the 

Present  of  Jewels  or  not. 

With  Great  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  90. 

London,  29  Nov.,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  annexed  note  from  the  Secretary  of  the  Danish  Legation 
announces  the  appointment  of  a  Minister  Resident  by  the  King 
of  Denmark  to  the  United  States. 

I  think  it  proper  to  send  with  this  communication  copies  of  my 
answer  to  it,  as  well  as  of  the  answer  which  by  the  President's 
orders  I  gave  to  a  former  note  stating  the  intention  of  Denmark 
to  appoint  a  Consular  Agent  to  reside  in  the  United  States,  in 
order  that  you  may  be  the  better  able  to  appreciate  the  motive 
which  is  suggested  to  have  induced  his  Danish  Majesty  to  give  a 
diplomatic  character  to  the  person  whom  he  at  first  thought  of 
sending  to  America  merely  as  a  Consul.  I  should  add  that  no 
conversation  on  my  part  has  gone  beyond  the  sentiments  ex- 
pressed in  the  correspondence  between  me  and  Count  Wedel, 
copies  of  which  are  in  your  possession. 

You  will  *  soon  be  able  to  ascertain  whether  the  mission  of  the 

Sieur  Bluher  Olsen  has  any  relation  to  the  views  at  present  ascribed 

to  the  Norther?i   Powers  in   respect  to   the   commercial  rights  of 

maritime  nations. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c.  &c. 


Mr.  King  to  M.  Schoenbron. 

London,  Nov.  29,  1800. 
Sir: 

I  have  had  the  honour  to  receive,  and  will  immediately  trans- 
mit to  my  Government,  the  communication  on  the  part  of  his 
Danish  Majesty  which  you  have  been  pleased  to  make  to  me  of 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  339 

the  appointment  of  the  Sieur  Bluher  Olsen  as  Minister  Resident 
and  Consul  General  to  the  United  States  of  America. 

I  entreat  you  to  accept  my  respectful  acknowledgements  of  the 
obliging  manner  in  which  you  have  announced  the  Mission  of  the 
Sieur  Bluher  Olsen,  together  with  the  assurance  of  the  high  con- 
sideration and  Esteem  with  which  I  have  the  honour  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


W.    WlLBERFORCE    TO    R.    KlNG. 

Palace  Yd.,  Dec.  2,  1800. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  return  you  my  thanks  for  your  very  obliging  communication. 
It  is  gratifying  to  me  from  the  subject  of  it,  and  still  more  from 
its  being  the  friendly  attention  of  one  for  whom  I  entertain  a  sin- 
cere Esteem  &  Regard.  I  cannot  help  taking  this  opportunity 
of  expressing  my  sincere  regret  that  my  indifferent  Health  & 
numerous  occupations  compel  me  in  so  great  a  degree  to  deny 
myself  the  pleasure  &  advantages  of  social  Intercourse,  & 
among  those  whose  company  I  give  up  the  most  unwillingly,  you 
(excuse  the  freedom  of  the  declaration)  are  included.  I  still  hope, 
howr.  that  I  may  have  the  pleasure  of  meeting  you  occasionally, 
&  shd.  be  especially  glad  to  meet  you  out  of  London,  when  living 
nominally  in  the  same  town  might  not  imply  being  2  miles 
asunder. 

I  have  had  intentions  of  writing  to  you  on  the  Subject  of 
American  Vessels  trading  on  the  coast  of  Africa.  All  I  meant 
to  say  is  not  now  in  my  mind,  full  of  other  matters.  But  I  re- 
raemr.  one  object  I  had  in  view  was  to  ask  you  to  be  so  kind  as 
to  advise  me  (en  ami  &  relying  on  my  perfect  secrecy)  how  we 
had  best  proceed  in  order  to  prosecute  the  Owners  or  Masters  of 
such  vessels  as  should  break  the  law  enacted  for  preventing  the 
carrying  on  of  the  Slave  Trade  by  American  Vessels.  I  under- 
stand it  is  a  common  fraud  to  clear  out  for  the  Canaries  or 
Teneriff.  Might  it  not  answer  the  desired  end  if  we  were  to 
transmit  from  Sierra  Leone  the  Names  &  Descriptions  of  the  Ves- 
sels, the.  masters  &c.  to  the  Abolition   Society  in  America,  or  is 


340  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

there  any  Officer  of  the  Govt,  to  whom  it  might  be  more  proper 
to  apply.    I  hope  Mrs.  King  &  all  your  family  are  in  good  health. 
I  am,  my  dear  Sir,  yours  very  sincerely, 

W.  WlLBERFORCE. 

Endorsed  by  R.  King  : 

Ansd.  9  Deer,  recommending  the  Abolition  Society  as  the  best 
agents  &c. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  4  Dec,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  This  is  the  day  appointed  for  the  election  of  President 
and  Vice  President.  The  calculations  now  are  that  Adams  and 
Pinckney  will  outrun  Jefferson  &  Burr.  Indeed  the  last  named 
gentleman  is  considered  as  standing  no  chance  whatever  of  suc- 
cess. .  .  .  This  opinion  is  based  upon  the  votes  of  the  States, 
now  known,  and,  that,  in  South  Carolina,  all  our  accounts  agree 
that  the  last  election  of  members  of  the  Legislature  terminated 
in  the  triumph  of  the  federalists,  and  that  the  electors  appointed 
by  them  will  of  course  be  decidedly  federal.  General  Pinckney 
who  wrote  a  letter  to  General  Hamilton  after  the  election,  and 
before  the  event  was  certainly  known,  puts  much  confidence  in 
the  appointment  of  federal  electors  and  says  that  they  would  vote 
honorably  according  to  the  agreement  in  Philadelphia  for  Adams 
and  himself.  It  is  this  success  in  S.  Carolina  that  determines  the 
event  of  the  election.  ...  My  own  opinion  is  that  Adams 
will  be  President  ;  there  are  calculators,  however,  who  think 
Pinckney  stands  the  best  chance.  General  Hamilton  makes  no 
secret  of  his  opinion  that  Jefferson  should  be  preferred  to  Adams„ 
.  .  .  This  letter  (Hamilton's)  continues  to  be  disapproved  of 
here.  I  have  not  yet  met  with  a  dissenting  voice  here.  General 
Hamilton,  however  has  received  some  consolatory  letters  from 
gentlemen  of  distinction  in  other  States.  The  letter  has  added 
much  to  his  unpopularity  here,  and  I  have  reason  to  think  it  is 
likewise  the  case  to  the  Eastward.     .     .     . 

Mr.  Jay  has  publickly  declined  being  a  candidate  for  the  office 
of  Governor  at  the  ensuing  election  in  April  next.  When  the 
Legislature  sat  in  the  last  month,  for  the  appointment  of  electors, 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  34 1 

the  democrats  nominated  the  old  Governor  (Clinton)  for  the 
office.  This  nomination  is  said  to  be  one  not  agreeable  to  Burr, 
who  wished  after  the  event  of  the  general  election  was  known,  to 
be  in  a  situation  to  run  himself  as  Governor.     .     .     . 

Numerous  pamphlets  have  appeared  under  anonimous  signa- 
tures agt.  Hamilton's  letter.  It  is  possible  he  may  answer  them. 
The  reception   of  his   letter  here  has  been  a   source  of  pain  to 

him.     .     .     . 

Yours, 

R.  T. 


R.  King  to  Mr.  Netzel,  Charge  d'affaires  of  his  Swedish 

Majesty. 

London,  December  5,  1800. 
Sir: 

By  reason  of  the  casualty  to  which  the  distance  of  America 
sometimes  exposes  the  correspondence  of  its  European  agents,  it 
was  a  long  time  before  the  arrival  of  the  Dispatch,  enclosing  to 
my  Government  the  Letters  of  the  Baron  of  Silverhjelm  to  me  of 
the  9th  of  August,  1799,  complaining  of  the  conduct  of  two 
private  armed  American  Ships  towards  a  Cutter  of  his  Sweedish 
Majesty. 

The  answer  to  this  communication,  which  I  have  but  just  re- 
ceived, instructs  me  to  state  to  you  for  the  information  of  his 
Swedish  Majesty  that  immediately  upon  the  receipt  of  this  com- 
plaint, precise  orders  were  given  by  the  President  of  the  United 
States  to  inquire  into  the  circumstances  thereof  ;  and  provided 
they  shall  appear  to  be  such  as  they  have  been  represented,  I  am 
authorized  to  assure  you  that  ample  damages  will,  if  demanded, 
be  decreed  by  the  American  Tribunals  against  the  commanders 
of  the  said  ships,  and  moreover  that  their  conduct  will  be  anim- 
adverted upon  in  a  manner  corresponding  to  the  nature  of  the 
offence  ;  it  being  a  fixed  principle  of  the  American  Government 
to  maintain  its  claim  to  a  friendly  treatment  of  its  own  Flag  & 
People,  by  the  respect  and  friendship  it  requires  of  them  to 
practice  towards  those  of  other  Nations. 

I  await  myself,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — England  and  Austria  decline,  France  insists  on 
separate  Peace — France  hopes  to  effect  Reconciliation  with  Russia — 
Prussia  cautions — Russia  displeased  with  England — Malta  surrendered 
to  the  English — France  would  revive  the  armed  Neutrality — Effect  of 
this  on  maritime  States — King  to  Wolcott — Sufficient  Arms  manufactured 
in  the  United  States — To  Secretary  of  State — England  must  have  Grain — 
Will  take  all  United  States  can  spare — Temper  of  England  favorable  to 
Negotiations — Should  first  settle  Matter  of  the  6th  Article — Proposal  to 
pay  a  precise  Sum  —  Calculation  of  how  much  —  Should  not  exceed 
^400,000 — J.  Mc Henry  to  King — Retired  from  Department  of  War — 
Jefferson  and  Burr  President  and  Vice-President — King  to  G.  Morris — 
Peace  more  uncertain — Effort  will  be  made  to  draw  United  States  into 
the  War — Our  Policy  Neutrality — Pickering  to  King — Relative  to  his  Son 
— Result  of  the  presidential  Election — Jefferson  incapable  of  removing 
his  Opponents  from  Office — If  Treaty  with  France  ratified  Navy  will  be 
hauled  up — King  to  Eaton — Has,  under  the  Secretary's  Instructions, 
ordered  the  Jewels — If  any  Payments  in  making  Treaties  hereafter,  make 
them  as  small  as  possible — Cabot  to  King — Speculations  on  Result  of  the 
Election — Does  not  think  there  will  be  violent  Changes  in  Office — All  calm 
— Less  Exultation  on  one  Side,  much  less  Depression  on  the  other — Hale 
to  King — Feds  prefer  Burr  to  Jefferson — Whichever  chosen,  Men  of  Pru- 
dence do  not  expect  the  Evils  predicted,  if  either  elected — Peter  Porcu- 
pine's Writings  serve  to  feed  Jealousies  between  us  and  Great  Britain — 
Troup  to  King — Hamilton  says  if  Burr  is  elected,  he  will  withdraw  from  the 
Party  and  public  Concerns — He  would  ratify  French  Treaty — His  Letter 
shows  he  wants  Discretion — The  Future  very  uncertain. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  92. 

London,  Dec.  12,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Tho'  Count  Cobenzel  was  still  at  Luneville  as  late  as  the  4th 

instant   &  Austria  and   England    continue    to   decline    separate 

negotiations,  &  France  persists  in  refusing  a  joint  one  ;  it  seems 

that  hostilities  are  about  to  be  resumed,  unless  prevented  by  the 

342 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  343 


rigour  of  the  season,  with  the  view  of  compelling  the  Emperor  to 
conclude  a  separate  Peace.  It  is  on  many  accounts  the  manifest 
policy  of  France  to  negotiate  with  her  enemies  separately  ;  and 
having,  as  is  believed,  effected  a  Reconcilation  with  Russia, 
whose  resentment  against  England  has  recently  displayed  itself 
in  the  Embargo  imposed  upon  upwards  of  two  hundred  English 
ships,  and  the  sequestration  of  more  than  three  millions  sterling 
of  English  property,  France  will  make  great  efforts  to  disembarrass 
herself  of  Austria,  in  order  that  her  whole  force  may  be  free  to 
act  in  concert,  as  she  may  hope,  with  the  North  of  Europe 
against  England.  Whether  the  Northern  Powers  will  enter  into 
such  a  confederacy,  as  will  give  to  France  the  advantages  and 
support  she  may  expect,  is  uncertain,  although  their  dissatisfac- 
tion towards  England  is  by  no  means  doubtful. 

The  system  of  Prussia  is  that  of  extreme  caution,  and  there  is 
reason  to  believe,  notwithstanding  the  late  measure  of  her  send- 
ing troops  to  occupy  Cuxhaven,  that  she  has  given  such  answers 
to  the  explanations  demanded  by  England,  as  well  in  respect  to 
that  measure  as  with  regard  to  a  Northern  Confederacy  and  the 
proceedings  of  Russia,  as  are  satisfactory.  Both  Denmark  & 
Sweden,  which  desired  to  be  backed  by  Russia  in  order  to  give 
weight  to  the  representations  against  the  maritime  pretensions  of 
England,  are,  it  is  understood,  unwilling  to  go  either  so  fast  or  so 
far  as  their  imperial  neighbour  seems  disposed  to  do.  During 
the  winter  no  fleet  can  enter  the  Baltic  or  the  Euxine,  a  circum- 
stance which  affords  an  opportunity  for  explanations,  which  may 
be  sought  for  by  the  interference  of  Prussia.  These  endeavours 
will  be  skillfully  counteracted  by  the  policy  of  France,  which 
has  already  done  much  to  produce  the  extraordinary  measures 
of  the  Russian  government.  The  first  symptoms  of  displeasure 
on  the  part  of  Russia  against  England  are  ascribed  to  the  too 
great  moderation  of  the  latter  in  supporting  the  complaints  of 
the  former  against  Austria. 

After  the  complete  secession  of  the  Russians,  the  First  Consul 
proposed  at  Vienna  and  afterwards  at  London,  to  exchange  the 
Russian  prisoners  against  an  equal  number  of  French  prisoners, 
soldiers  or  seamen  ;  this  was  refused.  The  proposal  could  not 
be  unknown  at  Petersburgh,  and  at  a  proper  time  in  the  course 
of  the  summer,  and  when  it  might  have  been  foreseen  in  France 


344  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

that  Malta  could  not  hold  out  much  longer  against  the  besiegers, 
the  French  Government  went  a  step  farther,  and  to  complete  the 
breach  between  Russia  and  the  Allies,  offered  to  deliver  Malta 
into  the  possession  of  the  Emperor  as  its  Grand  Master,  and  to 
release  the  Russian  prisoners  in  order  that  they  might  be  employed 
to  garrison  the  Island. 

Measures  are  said  to  have  been  in  great  forwardness  to  give 
effect  to  this  Proposal,  when  Malta  surrendered  to  the  English 
forces.  The  effect  of  the  Disappointment  has  been  essentially 
such  as  was  probably  expected,  and  England  has  not  only  been 
subjected  to  the  indignity  of  the  sequestration  laid  upon  her 
Property,  and  the  imprisonment  of  four  or  five  thousand  of  her 
seamen,  but  may  find  it  difficult  with  her  utmost  endeavours  to 
avoid  a  war  with  the  Nations  from  which  she  draws  the  principal 
means  of  maintaining  her  naval  superiority. 

France  is  too  adroit  to  suffer  the  present  occasion  to  pass 
without  endeavouring  to  revive  the  scheme  of  the  Armed 
Neutrality.  The  influence  of  Russia  will  be  (made)  use  of  to 
engage  the  consent  of  Sweden  and  Denmark.  Other  Powers  will 
be  invited  to  join  the  coalition,  and  measures  may  perhaps  be 
devised  to  restrict  the  commerce  of  such  nations  as  shall  refuse 
to  accede  to  it. 

Against  the  success  of  the  Project,  in  addition  to  the  precarious 
nature  of  all  confederacies,  we  may  reckon  the  possible  defeat  of 
the  French  armies,  should  hostilities  recommence  ;  the  unwilling- 
ness of  Prussia  to  enter  into  the  Confederacy,  and  her  presumed 
disposition  even  to  defeat  it ;  the  reluctance  of  Denmark,  which 
is  here  understood  to  have  intended  nothing  beyond  mere 
demonstration  ;  and  the  unavoidable  embarrassments  of  the 
Confederates,  arising  from  the  sudden  and  almost  total  stagna- 
tion of  their  Trade.  Should  however  the  winter  pass  away 
without  producing  a  Reconciliation,  England  must  engage  in  a 
war  with  Russia,  which  cannot  fail  to  draw  in  Denmark  and 
Sweden,  and  which  in  its  progress  will  involve  the  Porte  in  new 
and  critical  embarrassments  ;  a  war,  whether  we  regard  the 
Nations  engaged,  the  object  of  their  disagreement,  or  the 
advantages  it  may  afford  to  maritime  States,  which  refuse  to  take 
a  part  in  it,  which  must  materially  and  extensively  affect  our 
Navigation  andj  commerce,  and  which  will  call  upon  us  deliber- 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  345 

ately  to  appreciate  the  wisdom  of  adhering  to  the  policy  which 
has  hitherto  led  us  to  avoid  all  political  connections  with 
Europe,  as  well  as  impartially  to  estimate  the  uncertain  value  of 
the  object  that  may  be  held  forth  for  the  purpose  of  drawing  us 
into  the  Confederacy. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Oliver  Wolcott,  Esq. 

London,  Dec.  12,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  the  honour  to  receive  your  letter  of  Oct.  6th  and  am 
happy  to  learn  that  the  manufacture  of  arms  is  now  so  well 
established  as  to  preclude  the  necessity  of  further  importa- 
tions.    .     .     . 

With  greatest  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  93. 

London,  Dec.  13,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Parliament  is  still  in  session,  and  chiefly  employed  in  devising 
means  to  economize  and  encrease  the  food  of  the  country,  whose 
embarrassments  are  encreased  by  the  various  impediments  which 
will  materially  diminish  the  supplies  expected  from  the  North  of 
Europe.  America  is  the  only  country  from  which  a  considerable 
and  certain  importation  is  looked  for,  and  such  is  the  deficiency 
of  corn,  that  all  we  can  spare,  and  of  every  species,  will  find  a  high 
and  certain  market. 

I  am  not  unmindful  that  the  present  is  a  favorable  moment  for 
the  discussion  of  the  Questions  of  disagreement  between  us  &  this 
Government  ;  and  in  one  or  two  conferences  with  Lord  Grenville 
I  have  thought  I  perceived  a  temper  which  promises  rather  more 
than  I  have  of  late  been  accustomed  to  expect  ;  but  owing  to  his 
constant  engagement  between  the  business  of  Parliament  and  the 
Duties  of  his  office,  I  have  not  yet  been  able  to  make  any  positive 
progress  in  the  negotiation.  Having  long  believed  that  Govern- 
ments which  have  distinctly  expressed  an  opinion  upon  a  contro- 


346  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

verted  point  are  rarely  induced  to  change  it  by  reasons  which  are 
subsequently  presented,  I  have  preferred  to  begin  with  the  proposal 
to  get  rid  of  the  6th  Article,  instead  of  renewing  the  attempt  to 
explain  and  amend  it.  This  has  been  done  in  a  way  that  will  not 
prejudice  our  Demand  of  an  explanatory  Article,  should  we  fail 
to  agree  upon  terms  which  will  wholly  supersede  it.  Having  men- 
tioned to  Lord  Grenville  that  I  was  authorised  to  consent  to  the 
payment  of  a  precise  sum,  in  lieu  of  whatever  might,  pursuant  to 
the  6th  Article,  be  awarded  against  the  U.  S.,  and  he  having  con- 
sented to  discuss  any  proposition  to  that  effect  which  I  might  offer, 
I  prepared  and  sent  to  him  the  annexed  paper  ;  He  has  since 
informed  me  that  measures  have  been  taken  on  his  part  with  the 
view  to  ascertain  how  far  my  estimates  are  correct,  adding  that  as 
soon  as  he  is  able  to  proceed,  he  will  give  me  notice  in  order  that 
we  may  resume  our  conferences.  In  the  mean  time  some  other 
points  are  brought  forward  and  put  in  a  train  for  discussion.  But 
I  am  bound  to  add  that  so  little  progress  has  yet  been  made,  and 
ail  that  has  passed  has  been  of  so  general  a  nature,  that  nothing 
with  certainty  can  be  inferred  in  respect  to  the  issue  of  the 
negotiation. 

With  Perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

It  seems  impracticable  to  ascertain  with  any  degree  of  precision 
the  amount  of  debt  due  at  any  one  time  from  American  Debtors 
to  British  Creditors,  and  every  estimate  must  therefore  be  liable 
to  considerable  uncertainty.  As  the  Debt  arose  from  the  supply 
of  goods  furnished  by  British  Merchants,  the  List  of  British  Ex- 
ports seems  to  offer  the  best  material  for  forming  an  Estimate. 
So  far  as  the  American  Merchants  and  Planters  purchased  their 
goods  in  England  with  cash,  which  to  a  limited  extent  they  are 
understood  to  have  done,  the  list  of  Exports  will  require  correction, 
as  the  value  of  the  goods  paid  for  before  they  were  exported, 
should  be  taken  from  the  aggregate  amount  of  the  exports,  in 
order  to  ascertain  the  value  of  goods  annually  supplied  on  Credit. 
It  is  reasonable  to  infer  from  a  long  series  of  annual  credits  a 
correspondent  series  of  annual  payments  ;  but  although  the  pay- 
ments may  be  supposed  to  have  nearly  kept  pace  with  and  balanced 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  347 

the  new  Debt  annually  contracted,  since  otherwise  the  Trade  would 
have  been  discontinued,  it  is  nevertheless  probable  that  there  was 
at  all  times  an  average  arrearage  of  old  and  doubtful  Debts,  upon 
the  Recovery  of  which  there  was  little  Reliance  ;  and  against  the 
loss  whereof,  the  Creditors  indemnified  themselves  in  the  price  at 
which  their  goods  were  charged  :  It  may  however  seem  proper  to 
make  some  allowance  on  account  of  these  doubtful  Debts,  in  form- 
ing an  Estimate  of  the  amount  of  the  American  Debt  at  the  break- 
ing out  of  the  war.  As  it  is  wholly  uncertain  at  what  sum  this 
arrearage  should  be  estimated,  it  seems  to  be  a  fair  manner  of 
disposing  of  it,  to  place  its  uncertain  amount  against  the  equally 
uncertain  amount  of  the  goods  paid  for  by  American  Merchants 
and  Planters  before  their  exportation,  and  which  should  be  de- 
ducted from  the  value  of  their  Annual  Exports,  if  the  amount 
thereof  be  taken  as  the  amount  of  new  Debt  annually  contracted. 
Assuming  then,  which  may  be  done,  without  much  risk  of  Error, 
the  average  amount  of  annual  exports  of  Great  Britain  to  the 
United  States  for  a  certain  number  of  years  before  the  war,  as  the 
best  evidence  of  the  amount  of  the  Debt  due  from  the  American 
Debtors  to  British  Creditors  when  the  war  commenced,  it  remains 
only  to  ascertain  the  average  amount  of  the  Exports  in  order  to 
fix  the  amount  of  the  Debt. 

Mr.  Chalmers  in  his  Estimate  of  the  comparative  strength  of 
Great  Britain,  states  the  average  Exports  of  British  Manufactur- 
ers to  the  United  States  for  6  years  ending  with  1774  (the  period 

immediately  preceding  the  war)  at ^2,216,324 

If  this  sum  be  increased  by  \ 443,264 

(which   is    a  large  proportion  on  acct.  of 

goods  not  of   British    manufacture)   the 

result  will  stand  at ^"2,659,588 

Lord  Sheffield  states  the  average  exports 

of  England  to  the  United  States  for  10 

years  ending  with  1770  at 1,763,409 

If  this  sum  be  increased  by  adding  \  of  the 

whole    Exports    of    Scotland    estimated 

at  ;£8oo,ooo 200,000 

The  result  is 1,963,409 

The  average  of  the  two  estimates  gives  an 

annual  Export 2,311,498 


348  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

A  sum  that  probably  approaches  pretty  near  the  true  amount  of 
the  American  Debt  at  the  period  before  mentioned. 

If  the  condition  of  the  Debtors,  the  influence  of  the  war,  and 
above  all  the  operation  of  the  paper  money  be  understood  and 
considered,  it  will  be  thought  a  moderate  estimate  that  the  British 
Creditors  suffered  a  loss  of  50  per  cent,  upon  the  whole  of  their 
Debt  by  the  insolvency  of  their  Debtors  between  the  commence- 
ment and  conclusion  of  the  war.  To  judge  from  the  proportion 
recovered  by  the  Creditors  in  those  parts  of  the  United  States,  in 
which  it  is  not  pretended  that  any  legal  impediments  have  stood  in 
their  way,  the  loss  by  insolvency  during  the  war  would  come  nearer 
to  f  than  to  \  of  the  original  debt.  Estimating  it  at  one  half,  the 
Debt  on  the  return  of  Peace  would  be  ,£1,155,749. 

As  in  a  majority  of  the  States,  including  the  large  commercial 
towns,  the  Creditors  have  experienced  no  material  Difficulties  in 
collecting  their  Debts,  it  is  reasonable  to  believe,  that  at  least  as 
much  as  one  half  of  the  sum,  which  the  Debtors  were  able  to  pay 
at  the  close  of  the  war  has  been  recovered,  this  deduction  would 
leave  £"577.874  of  the  sum  due  at  the  return  of  Peace  ;  which  by 
the  addition  of  interest  having  nearly  doubled  itself  may  now 
amount  to  the  sum  of  £1.155.749. 

The  amount  of  the  claims  exhibited  at  Philadelphia  will  not 
serve  to  invalidate  the  foregoing  observations,  when  it  is  under- 
stood, besides  their  general  and  acknowledged  inaccuracy,  some 
of  them  presenting  only  the  Debtor's  side  of  the  account  &  others 
no  account  at  all,  that  these  claims  include  the  Debts  due  from 
Persons  insolvent  before  the  war  as  well  as  from  those  who  be- 
came so  during  its  continuance  ;  so  that  without  the  trouble  of  a 
particular  examination,  it  will  be  found  that  they  will  rather  cor- 
roborate than  weaken  the  preceding  Estimate. 

If  it  could  be  ascertained  how  much  of  this  sum  can  be  recov- 
ered of  the  Debtors,  the  difference  would  shew  the  amount  for 
which  the  Creditors  have  a  claim  upon  the  United  States. 

Notwithstanding  the  complaints  of  the  Creditors,  it  is  certain 
that  such  of  them  as  have  taken  the  requisite  pains,  have  been 
gradually  recovering  their  Debts  ;  and  it  is  probable  that  their 
success  would  at  this  time  have  been  much  more  complete,  had 
they  not  in  many  instances  been  seduced  from  the  pursuit  of 
their  Judicial  Remedies  by  the  expectation  they  believed  them- 


l8oo]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  349 


selves  authorized  to  entertain  from  the  Proceedings  of  the  Board 
of  Commissioners  at  Philadelphia.  At  present  no  legal  impedi- 
ments obstruct  their  suits,  and  from  the  general  Prosperity  of 
every  part  of  the  United  States  during  the  last  ten  years  there  is 
reason  to  conclude  that  the  circumstances  of  British  Debtors  have 
improved  in  common  with  those  of  their  neighbours. 

The  Debt  still  outstanding  is  chiefly  due  in  those  States  which 
produce  the  principal  staple  articles  of  American  Commerce,  the 
aggregate  value  of  which  articles  exported  from  the  five  Southern 
States  from  1700  to  1770  exceeded  according  to  Lord  Schef- 
field's  tables  by  ten  millions  sterling  the  aggregate  value  of 
the  Goods  imported  into  the  United  States  from  Great  Britain 
during  the  same  period.  Another  circumstance  in  respect  to  the 
ability  of  the  Debtors  deserves  consideration.  In  most  of  the 
States  the  British  Debtors  were  American  Merchants  who  resided 
in  the  large  towns  and  sold  their  goods  on  credit  to  the  Traders 
and  Shopkeepers  dispersed  throughout  the  country.  When  the 
Paper  money  had  depreciated,  the  Country  Traders  and  Shop- 
keepers paid  their  Debts  to  the  American  Merchants,  who  having 
no  way  to  make  Remittances  to  their  British  Creditors,  lost  by 
farther  Depreciation  the  Payments  received  from  their  Debtors 
and  the  chief  means  of  paying  their  own  Debts.  In  some  of  the 
States,  including  those  from  whence  the  largest  portion  of  the  re- 
maining Debt  is  supposed  to  be  due,  it  was  the  usual  practice 
that  a  partner  or  agent  of  the  British  House  came  with  the  goods 
to  America,  where  he  retailed  them  on  credit  among  the  Planters 
and  being  on  the  spot  received  his  payments  in  the  Productions 
of  the  Country.  On  the  breaking  out  of  the  war  these  Partners 
and  Agents  returned  to  Great  Britain,  and  thereby  avoided  the 
payment  of  their  Debts  in  a  medium,  which  finally  suffered  a 
ruinous  Depreciation  ;  their  Debtors  were  numerous,  and  in  gen- 
eral owed  but  moderate  sums,  and  tho'  sufferers  in  the  course  of 
the  war  by  the  loss  of  Slaves  and  the  dilapidation  of  their  Estates, 
their  property  was  not  diminished  in  an  equal  degree  with  that  of 
the  American  Merchants,  who  received  in  a  depreciated  paper, 
the  Debts  upon  which  they  depended  to  pay  their  British 
Creditors. 

The  tendency  of  these  Reflections  is  to  prove,  that  in  the  present 
unobstructed  course  of  justice,  the  Creditors  may  be  able  with 


350  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

the  care  and  diligence  which  it  is  their  duty  to  employ,  to  recover 
a  great  proportion  of  their  outstanding  Debts ;  if  this  proportion 
should  be  equal,  as  it  is  believed  it  would  be,  to  f  ds  of  the  whole, 
the  claim  against  the  U.  States  would  not  exceed  £400,000. 

R.  King. 

London,  Nov.  23d,  1800. 


James  McHenry  to  R.  King. 

Baltimore,  18th  Deer.,  1800. 

Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  You  have  long  ere  this  known  of  my  quitting  the  De- 
partment of  War.  I  now  have  the  satisfaction  of  informing  you 
with  sincerity,  that  the  circumstances  which  preceded  my  retire- 
ment, have  given  a  double  zest  to  my  enjoyment  of  domestic  ease 
and  comforts.  Mr.  Pickering  was  displaced,  as  you  must  have 
heard,  soon  after  myself,  and  Mr.  Wolcott,  the  last  shred  in  the 
Washington  administration,  has  notified  his  intention  of  retiring 
at  the  close  of  this  year,  with  the  consent  of  the  President. 

Public  men,  you  will  observe,  are  changed  and  changing. 
Whether  there  will  be  a  total  revolution  in  measures  also,  time 
must  discover.  Mr.  Jefferson  &  Burr  have  certainly  been  elected 
by  the  electors,  the  one  President  the  other  Vice  President.  It 
is  also  highly  probable,  that  the  government,  must  in  a  little  time, 
be  exclusively  in  the  hands  of  the  opposition.  Who  is  to  blame 
for  all  this  ?  The  men  who  sincerely  supported  Mr.  Adams  or 
Mr.  Adams,  who  insincerely  deserted  his  supporters  ? 

Your  faithful  and  obliged  hble.  servt. 

James  McHenry. 

Copy  of  a  Memorandum  in  R.  K's  Handwriting. 

19th  Dec,  1800. 

A.  No  person  shall  upon  the  high  sea,  be  impressed  or  taken 
against  his  will,  out  of  any  ship  or  vessel  belonging  to  the  inhabi- 
tants of  other  nations  by  the  men  of  war  or  privateers  of  the 
other:  and  every  offence  against  this  stipulation  shall  be  severely 
punished 


l8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  35 1 


B.  Explanatory  article  respecting  naval  stores  formerly  agreed 
to  ;  a  Draught  sent  to  Mr.  Hammond  in  1798. 

C.  His  Majesty  consents  to  relinquish  all  claims  to  the  Bank 
Stock  which  belonged  to  the  colony  of  Maryland,  now  standing 
in  the  name  of  the  accounted  general  of  the  Court  of  Chancery  ; 
and  measures  shall  without  delay  be  taken  to  transfer  the  same 
to  the  Agent  of  the  State  of  Maryland. 

New  Orleans  to  be  considered  as  an  Amer.  Port — Vice  ady. 
courts  in  W.  Indies  Orders  &c. 

N.  B.  Articles  A,  B  &  C  delivered  to  Lord  Grenville  19th 
Dec,  1800. 


R.  King  to  Gouverneur  Morris. 

London,  Dec.  20,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  in  your  Debt  for  one  or  two  letters  which  you  had  the 
goodness  to  write  to  me  in  the  course  of  the  summer,  and  tho' 
my  acknowledgements  have  been  so  long  delayed,  I  am  still 
unable  to  accompany  them  with  any  satisfactory  conjecture  even 
respecting  the  conclusion  of  the  war.  Some  months  ago  there 
was  an  appearance  of  a  general  Peace  ;  instead  of  which  new 
embarrassments  have  arisen  in  the  North  which  threaten  to 
involve  Nations  which  have  hitherto  remained  neuter,  and  Peace 
is  likely  to  become  more  uncertain,  and  the  war  more  extensive 
and  difficult  than  ever. 

Pains  will  still  be  taken  to  draw  us  in  ;  but  our  policy  is  so 
connected  with  our  interest,  which  I  think  is  well  understood, 
that  I  am  willing  to  believe  that  we  shall  adhere  to  the  system 
we  have  so  discreetly  adopted  upon  the  subject  of  European 
Connections.  The  two  last  years'  profits  of  our  Farmers  are 
arguments  of  no  contemptible  weight,  and  with  all  the  supplies 
which  England  will  be  able  to  procure,  and  her  chief  dependence 
is  upon  America,  such  is  the  deficiency  of  corn  that  little  or  none 
will  be  on  hand  at  the  commencement  of  the  next  harvest,  and, 
should  it  be  even  an  abundant  one,  the  country  will  require  large 
supplies  during  the  next  year. 

With  Sincere  Esteem  &  Respect,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


352  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Easton,  Deer.  27,  1800. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

Your  letters  are  dated  April  22.  (marked  "private  &  personal") 
July  25  and  Sept  2d.  Of  the  first  I  have  reed,  a  duplicate  ;  and 
as  it  relates  wholly  to  a  subject  of  great  public  concern,  I  think 
I  ought  to  transmit  it  to  General  Marshall,  confidentially,  for  the 
purpose  for  which  you  wrote  it  ;  tho'  I  cannot  but  suppose  that 
you  have  made  to  him  a  similar  communication,  since  you  found 
him  in  office. 

The  character  you  give  of  my  son  corresponds  with  the  testi- 
mony of  others  ;  but  your  discernment  stamps  it  with  double 
value.  His  profession  will  separate  him  from  me  ;  for  with  a 
mind  stored  with  useful  knowledge,  with  a  sound  judgment,  great 
industry,  &  probity,  he  will  be  qualified  to  act  on  a  theatre  less 
private  and  obscure  than  that  to  which  I  am  destined  for  the 
remnant  of  my  life.  I  shall  regret  the  separation  :  but  it  is  an 
event  in  no  wise  singular  :  and  for  his  interest  I  would  cheerfully 
make  a  greater  sacrifice. — As  to  the  time  of  his  return  to  America. 
I  have  left  it  to  his  own  decision,  upon  your  advice,  which  I  know 
will  be  given  hkn  with  the  truest  regard  to  his  advantage.  I 
wish  he  may  have  visited  the  continent  the  past  autumn — if  to  be 
visited  at  all — that  he  may  be  ready  to  return  in  the  Spring  with 
Mr.  Sitgreaves.  In  this  event  he  will  come  directly  to  Pennsyl- 
vania, and  see  the  family,  prior  to  his  settling  down  at  Salem,  to 
pursue  the  study  of  the  law.  When  qualified  for  the  bar,  and 
initiated  in  the  practice,  his  success  will  determine  his  permanent 
abode  :  I  shall  be  pleased  if  he  shall  find  it  for  his  interests  to 
remain  at  Salem. 

The  issue  of  the  great  election  is  known  ;  Mr.  Jefferson  &  Mr. 
Burr  are  chosen  for  President  and  Vice  President.  It  is  said  in 
one  of  the  newspapers  that  General  Pinckney  has  written  to  Mr. 
Jefferson,  that  So.  Carolina  gave  8  votes  for  him  and  7  for  Mr. 
Burr.  Their  votes  for  them  in  the  other  states  were  equal,  so  far 
as  they  have  been  published  :  for  the  votes  of  Kentucky  and  Tenn- 
essee have  not  yet  appeared  ;  tho'  nobody  can  doubt  of  their 
unanimity  for  J.  &  B.  General  Pinckney  might  have  been  chosen 
— at  least  have  stood  on  a  par  with  Mr.  Jefferson,  if  the  federalists 


1800]  LIFE    AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  353 

in  the  legislature  of  So.  Carolina  would  have  consented  to  have 
placed  Mr.  J.  on  the  ticket  :  but  the  latter  considered  themselves 
pledged  to  vote  for  Mr.  Adams  &  General  Pinckney.  But  as  it 
was  manifest  that  So.  Carolina  held  the  scales — that  Mr.  A.  could 
not  possibly  be  elected — and  that  Mr.  P.  might  be — the  principle 
of  the  federalists  of  the  Union,  to  ensure  a  federal  president 
would  have  warranted  a  departure  from  an  implied  agreement 
(explicit  on  the  part  of  a  few  leading  men)  predicated  on  the 
ground  of  their  commanding  the  votes  of  that  state. 

Democratic  principles  seem  to  be  evidently  increasing  :  and 
tho'  Mr.  J.  is  incapable  of  acting  the  part  of  the  Governor  of  Penn- 
sylvania, in  removing  from  office  all  his  opponents,  yet  when 
vacancies  happen,  no  doubt  he  will  fill  them  with  his  friends  ;  and 
the  hopes  of  office  will  add  to  their  number. 

You  will  see  that  Mr.  Wolcott  has  resigned  ;  the  resignation  to 
take  effect  the  last  of  this  month.  I  know  not  who  is  contem- 
plated for  his  successor.  I  hazard  a  conjecture  that  it  may  be 
Mr.  Dexter,  to  whom  the  treasury  will  be  more  congenial  than 
the  War  Office. 

The  treaty  with  the  French  Republic  is  before  the  Senate.  We 
have  a  copy  published  in  the  news-papers,  taken,  I  believe,  from 
the  French  publication  at  Paris.  If  it  be  ratified,  our  little  navy  will 
be  hauled  up.  This  will  restore  to  me  my  second  son  ;  and  if  he 
incline  (which  I  count  on)  to  join  me  in  the  Woods,  I  shall  prose- 
cute my  rural  improvements  with  fresh  spirit.  He  has  a  hardi- 
hood well  adapted  to  the  undertaking. 

There  is  a  news-paper  report  that  Judge  Ellsworth  is  about  to 
resign  :  I  should  be  gratified  to  see  our  friend  Sitgreaves  on  the 
Bench.  If  Judge  Ellsworth  contemplated  a  resignation,  when  at 
Paris,  I  hope  he  may  have  mentioned  it  to  Mr.  S.  &  that  he  may 
be  authorized  to  recommend  the  latter  to  the  P. 

By  a  letter  from  Mr.  Liston,  dated  at  Norfolk  the  10th  instant, 
it  appears  that  he  was  to  embark  the  next  day  for  Antigua  :  and 
he  expects  to  arrive  in  London  the  next  April.  Great  Britain 
may  not  be  in  haste  to  appoint  a  successor.  However,  I  earnestly 
hope  that  nothing  will  occur  to  deprive  the  U.  States  of  your 
services  at  that  court. 

Faithfully  yours 

Timothy  Pickering. 

VOL.    III. — 23 


354  RUFUS  KING.  [1800 

Geo.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Dec.  28,  1800. 

We  are  disappointed  in  the  election  at  South  Carolina  notwith- 
standing the  indubitable  assurance  received  from  thence.  There 
is  a  remarkable  calm  here  since  the  success  of  the  Democratic 
Electors  has  been  known.  Some  of  the  Jacobins  are  afraid  Mr.  J. 
will  not  administer  the  Govt,  according  to  their  wishes,  others  of 
them  think  it  was  easy  &  pleasant  to  rail  &  find  fault  but  difficult 
to  govern  &  vindicate  ;  they  are  unwilling  to  take  responsibility 
upon  themselves  or  friends  :  others  are  afraid  Burr  will  be  Chief. 
Violent  Adamsites  are  chagrined  to  see  an  issue  the  fear  of  which 
they  treated  as  chimerical  or  artificially  wrought  up  to  serve 
Pinckney  :  the  Anti  Adamsite  Fedts  see  no  greater  evil  in  this 
issue  than  one  which  their  own  measures  might  have  produced 
&  some  of  Mr.  Adams'  friends  doubtless  are  reconciled  to  this 
as  much  better  than  the  Election  of  Pinckney.  If  Jefferson  or 
Burr  support  the  existing  policy,  the  opposition  will  be  broken, 
&  if  they  grossly  violate  it,  we  shall  grow  stronger.  You  will 
rejoice  to  see  that  New  England  has  behaved  well  in  this  business 
&  to  learn  from  me  that  the  disposition  to  maintain  the  National 
Union  &  Govt,  is  cultivating  with  much  zeal. 

Wolcott  leaves  his  office  in  excellent  order — the  public  creditors 
are  safe  against  everything  but  total  Revolution  ;  a  little  abuse 
or  mismanagement  will  be  easily  rectified  by  &  by. 

I  am  so  much  out  of  the  world  that  it  is  not  extraordinary  if  I 
differ  from  those  who  live  in  it.  You  know  my  habits  of  think- 
ing perfectly  &  therefore  will  not  wonder  that  I  am  still  for  war. 
Ames  &  I  still  adhere  to  the  opinion  that  England  must  not  yet 
make  peace  &  fully  believe  if  she  persevere  she  will  triumph  over 
France.  But  now  France  is  too  strong  for  the  safety  of  her 
neighbors.  She  must  therefore  if  possible  be  reduced  &  from 
the  nature  &  composition  of  her  power  she  will  be  reduced  if 
England  persevere,  Jacobinism  in  France  is  dead  &  the  stock 
of  force  it  yielded  will  be  soon  diminished  so  as  to  be  con- 
trouled. 

Yours  faithfully  &  affectionately. 


i8oo]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  355 


R.  King  to  William  Eaton,  Esq. 

London,  Dec.  28,  1800. 
Sir  : 

Since  the  date  of  my  Letter  of  the  24.  ultimo,  I  have  received 
yours  of  the  1st.  of  April.  Though  neither  the  Hero  nor  the 
Anna  Maria  had  then  reached  Tunis,  and  consequently  you 
could  not  determine  what  influence  the  delivery  of  the  naval  and 
military  stores  might  have  in  support  of  your  exertions  to  get  rid 
of  the  present  of  Jewels,  yet  according  to  the  tenor  of  the  Sec- 
retary of  State's  letter  of  the  17th  of  January  last,  I  think  you 
were  authorised  to  procure  them  ;  and  if  your  Letter,  enclosing 
a  copy  of  the  Secretary's  Letter  to  you,  had  arrived  as  soon  as 
your  letter  to  Mawhood  &  Co.,  I  should  have  desired  them  to 
execute  your  order,  instead  of  requesting  them  to  suspend  it. 
Though  I  do  not  relinquish  the  hope  that  you  will  be  able  to  get 
rid  of  a  part,  if  not  the  whole  of  the  present  of  Jewels,  I  have 
determined  to  take  immediate  measures  to  procure  all  of  them. 
Some  articles  may  soon  be  prepared  and  sent  ;  others  will  re- 
quire a  long  time  before  they  can  be  made  ;  if  by  your  exertions 
they  are  not  required  at  Tunis,  they  will  be  ready  when  occasion 
calls  for  them  elsewhere.  It  may  not  be  amiss  to  remark  to  you 
that  we  should  avoid,  if  possible,  admitting  Spain,  the  Proprietor 
of  Peru,  as  well  as  the  ancient  and  inveterate  Enemy  of  the  Bar- 
bary  Powers,  as  the  standard  by  which  our  Tribute  is  to  be 
measured.  Our  circumstances  bear  a  greater  resemblance  to 
those  of  Denmark  &  Sweden,  and  our  Tribute  ought  not  to  ex- 
ceed what  is  paid  by  them.  Both  these  Powers  complain  heavily 
that  we  have  gone  to  work  so  full  handed  with  the  Barbary 
Powers,  and  in  our  Ransoms,  Presents  &  Tribute  have  been  so 
lavish  as  to  have  materially  disturbed  the  economy  with  which 
they  had  immemorially  managed  their  affairs  with  those  Regen- 
cies ;  and  to  confess  the  truth  there  is  but  too  much  reason  in 
this  complaint.  Would  not  your  letters  reach  England  expedi- 
tiously thro'  Malta  ? 

With  great  Respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 


356  KUFUS  KING.  [1800 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

December  28,  1800. 

I  wrote  you  a  short  letter  this  morning  which  goes  to  Cowes  & 
is  accompanied  by  a  half  sheet  of  the  Centinel  containing  the 
best  intelligence  we  have  of  the  state  of  the  Election.  By  that 
you  will  see  that  Jefferson  &  Burr  have  a  majority  of  3  votes  ; 
the  former  will  probably  be  chosen  by  the  house  if  they  are  equal : 
this  at  least  is  my  opinion  altho'  many  persons  of  good  judgment 
think  otherwise. 

I  am  unable  to  comprehend  the  consistency  of  Mr.  Ellsworth's 
6th  article  with  the  25th  of  Mr.  Jay's  Treaty.  There  appears  to 
me  an  incompatibility,  but  I  hear  &  see  no  remarks  of  this  kind 
abroad.  It  is  taken  for  granted  by  many  that  the  decided  Fed- 
eralists in  high  office  will  generally  be  dismissed  &  their  places 
filled  by  Democrats.  I  do  not  think  there  will  be  many  violent 
changes  if  any  ;  I  only  expect  that  whenever  vacancies  do  happen 
they  will  be  then  filled  with  our  opponents.  In  the  meantime 
those  of  our  friends  who  are  in  office  will  be  a  check  on  our  foes 
&  will  at  least  delay,  perhaps  avert  great  mischief.  You  know 
my  disposition  to  see  things  in  a  gloomy  light,  but  I  rather  in- 
dulge this  disposition  when  evils  are  before  us  than  after  they 
arrive.  In  the  present  case  I  am  far  from  being  satisfied  that  our 
National  affairs  will  essentially  suffer.  I  think  a  President  re- 
putedly federal  wou'd  have  injured  us  more  by  a  defective 
administration  than  one  of  an  opposite  name  ;  in  the  case  of 
wrong  policy  by  a  federal  President  the  federal  Party  are  of  con- 
sequence divided  &  broken,  but  under  a  President  of  an  opposite 
character  they  are  consolidated  &  strengthened  by  his  bad  con- 
duct. On  the  other  hand  if  a  Democratic  President  supports  the 
existing  Systems  he  weakens  the  Democratic  party.  If  the  new 
President  attempts  to  tie  us  too  closely  to  France,  if  wantonly  or 
unjustly  he  exposes  us  to  an  unnecessary  &  ruinous  war  with 
England,  if  he  disturbs  public  credit,  he  will  reanimate  &  recom- 
bine  with  fresh  zeal  the  whole  federal  party  against  him  &  if  he 
forbears  he  will  disappoint  &  divide  his  friends.  We  are  all 
calm  here  ;  there  is  less  exultation  on  one  side  &  much  less  de- 
pression on  the  other  than  you  wou'd  imagine  if  you  did  not  see 
the  movements  of  men's  hearts  as  well  as  listen  to   their  words. 


1800]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  357 

I  spare  you  the  trouble  of  reading  what  is  unnecessary  for  me  to 

write  in  explanation   of  these  phenomena.     There  is  here  a  Mr. 

Dunn,  an  Irish  Gentleman,  who  has  been  in  this  Country  several 

years — he  brought  a  letter  to  me  from  Fitzsimons  ;  I  have  not 

seen  him  very  often  ;  his  manners  are  singular  but  he  possesses 

much  sense  &  information  &  has  my  promise  of  a  letter  to  you. 

It  wou'd  have  been  well  for  you  if  the  world  did  not  know  the 

friendship  which  subsists  between  us,  or  if  it  did  not  estimate  my 

claims  upon  you  by  the  esteem,  respect  &  regard  which  it  is  known 

I  entertain  for  you. 

Yours  truly, 
G.  C. 

Joseph  Hale  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  29  Dec,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  It  seems  you  have  been  apprized  of  the  feuds  &  ani- 
mosities which  have  had  their  full  scope  with  our  prominent 
federal  men.  The  result  you  have  probably  anticipated  to  be  the 
triumph  of  antifederal  candidates.  Mr.  Jefferson  &  Burr  have 
doubtless  a  majority  of  the  electoral  votes  &  probably  each  the 
same  number.  It  will  therefore  rest  with  the  house  to  give  the 
precedency.  It  is  fashionable  with  feds  to  declare  in  favor  of 
Mr.  Burr.  May  their  predilection  be  gratified  !  tho'  upon  the 
whole  I  do  not  think  it  probable.  Men  of  the  most  judgment 
with  us  do  not  expect  those  evils  to  follow  the  adminn.  of  Jeff, 
or  Burr,  which  while  they  were  candidates  it  was  thought  politic 
to  predict.  The  experience  of  the  past  seven  years  has  probably 
corrected  the  wild  notions  heretofore  imputed  to  them.  Un- 
happily indeed  are  we  placed  when  our  principal  consolation  is  to 
be  derived  from  the  very  source  of  our  misfortunes.  The  possible 
prudence,  sagacity  &  firmness  of  federalists  ought  to  furnish  us 
with  another  source  of  comfort. 

We  are  really  in  the  dark  upon  the  subject  of  European  poli- 
tics. The  indications  of  peace  &  of  war  perplex  our  under- 
standings. The  internal  distresses  of  England,  we  lament,  not 
only  for  the  sake  of  Englishmen,  but  from  their  possible  tendency 
to  procrastinate  the  return  of  peace  to  the  European  world  &  to 
give  to  their  enemy  too  great  a  preponderance.     We  feel  an  in- 


358  RUFUS  KING,  [1800 

terest  in  their  welfare  notwithstanding  the  insults  &  injuries  we  too 
frequently  experience  in  our  very  harbours.  But  yesterday  a  gen- 
tleman from  Newport  informed  me  that  a  Halifax  privateer  had 
been  laying  off  &  on  the  Island  for  several  days  with  a  supposed 
intention  of  capturing  two  or  three  American  vessels  about  to 
sail  from  Newport.  Notwithstanding  the  idle  gasconade  of  Peter 
Porcupine  in  his  first  London  paper,  the  Halifax  squadron  with 
the  ten  great  ships  would  not,  were  we  in  actual  hostility,  be  capa- 
ble of  thus  insulting  our  coasts  with  impunity.  If  Peter  could 
permit  himself  to  take  a  fair  view  of  the  subject  he  would  find 
that  the  conduct  of  the  English  marine  towards  Americans  justi- 
fies a  greater  degree  of  coolness,  than  we  have  yet  manifested 
towards  that  country.  If  he  with  all  his  vaunted  sagacity  &  long 
residence  here  were  capable  of  appreciating  the  American  char- 
acter, he  would  find  that  Americans  of  all  people  are  least  influ- 
enced by  slavish  motives  to  resent  insult  and  injury.  His  writings 
under  the  idle  pretence  of  manly  sentiment  serve  so  directly  to 
kindle  &  to  feed  undue  jealousies  between  our  country  &  Gt. 
Britain  that  had  not  I  long  considered  him  as  one  of  the  most  in- 
consistent of  beings  I  should  certainly  conclude  him  to  be  a 
hireling  of  Buonaparte. 

Your  friend  &  most  obed.  Servt. 

J.  H. 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  31  Dec,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     Perhaps  you  will  be  still  more  astonished  to  hear  that 

a  serious  opinion  is  growing  up  among  our  friends  at  Washington 

that  Burr  ought  to  be  preferred  to  Jefferson  in  case  both  have  the 

same  number  of  votes  ;  that  is  that  the  House  of  Representatives 

ought    to    prefer  Burr  !      Dayton  of    New    Jersey,    and  in    the 

Senate,  is  a  warm  advocate  of  this  preference  ;  but  he  is  not  equal 

in  influence  to  other  federalists  who  advocate  it.     I  rather  think, 

however,  that  Jefferson  will  have  more  votes  in  the  House  of 

Representatives  than  Burr.     Our  friend   Hamilton  declares  that 

if  the  federal  party  play  so  dangerous  a  game  as  to  support  Burr, 

and  he  should   succeed  in  consequence  of  it,  he  will  withdraw 

from  the  party  and  from  all  public  concerns.     Hence   you  may 


1800]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  359 

conclude  that  he  is  exerting  all  his  might  against  Burr  ;  and  this 
is  really  the  fact.     .     .     . 

Our  late  Convention  with  France  has  been  published  in  our 
papers  from  a  London  paper.  It  is  popular  with  the  great  mass 
of  the  community.  The  Senate  now  have  it  under  consideration. 
.  .  .  The  general  opinion  is  that  it  will  be  ratified.  Hamilton 
is  labouring  to  procure  its  ratification  ;  he  has  received  a  letter 
from  Mr.  Ellsworth,  with  its  enclosure  ;  but  before  the  letter  came, 
he  had  decided  that  under  all  existing  circumstances  with  us,  it 
would  be  the  wisest  course  for  the  Senate  to  ratify.     .     .     . 

The  current  of  public  opinion  still  sets  strongly  against  the  dis- 
cretion of  Hamilton's  late  letter  respecting  the  character  and 
conduct  of  Mr.  Adams.  I  do  not  believe  it  has  altered  a  single 
vote  in  the  late  election,  and  yet  letters  from  respectable  federal- 
ists in  South  Carolina  assert  that  it  accomplished  the  democratical 
majority  in  the  South  Carolina  Legislature.  The  influence  how- 
ever of  this  letter  upon  Hamilton's  character  is  extremely  unfor- 
tunate. An  opinion  has  grown  out  of  it,  which  at  present  obtains 
almost  universally,  that  his  character  is  radically  deficient  in  discre- 
tion, and  therefore  the  federalists  ask,  what  avail  the  most  pre- 
eminent talents — the  most  distinguished  patriotism — without  the 
all  important  quality  of  discretion  ?  Hence  he  is  considered  as 
an  unfit  head  of  the  party — and  we  are  in  fact  without  a  rallying 
point.  I  have  for  some  time  past  consoled  myself  with  the  idea 
that  Mr.  Ellsworth  would  form  a  rallying  point  for  us.  This  idea, 
however,  has  vanished  with  his  resignation  of  the  office  of  Chief- 
Justice.  We  fear  he  is  lost  to  public  life  forever  !  What  destinies 
await  us  must  be  left  to  that  Supreme  Governor  who  directs  all 
things  according  to  his  sovereign  pleasure.     .     .     . 

Adieu 

R.  T. 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

McHenry  to  King— Jefferson  or  Burr  equal  Votes— Whichever  chosen, 
Changes  in  Conduct  of  the  Government — Burr's  Professions  of  Fidelity  to 
the  Wishes  and  Expectation  of  the  United  States — Opposition  in  violent 
State  of  Apprehension  lest  Jefferson  be  not  chosen — King  to  Secretary  of 
State— The  King's  Title  changed  by  adding  "and  Ireland" — Pickering  to 
King — Jay  nominated  as  Chief  Justice,  but  refused — Both  Parties  reprobate 
the  Convention  with  France — Election  still  doubtful — If  Burr,  fewer 
Changes  in  Office  ;  If  Jefferson,  more — Speculations  on  the  possible  Result 
— Lawranceto  King — Convention  with  France — General  Wish  it  should  be 
taken  as  it  is — Changes  may  bring  King  Home,  where  he  will  be  cordially 
received — King  to  Secretary  of  State — France  and  Austria  to  treat  sepa- 
rately— Probable  maritime  War  between  England  and  the  Rest  of  Europe 
— This  should  favor  speedy  Adjustment  of  our  Affairs  with  England — Asked 
to  discuss  the  Arrangements  respecting  the  sixth  Article  with  Mr.  Anstey, 
Lord  Grenville  pleading  Press  of  Business — If  Result  satisfactory  well,  if 
not  will  fall  back  upon  an  explanatory  Article — Lord  Grenville  to  King — 
Explanation  of  Captain  Bainbridge's  entering  Harbour  of  Constantinople, 
with  Algerine  Flag  flying — Objection  made — Asked  to  be  put  under  the 
Protection  of  the  English  Minister — To  take  down  Algerine  Flag  and  sub- 
stitute the  American  Pendant — Hale  to  King — Senate  ratified  the  Conven- 
tion with  France  with  Modifications — Negotiations  with  France  show  a 
Want  of  Firmness — Prefers  Burr  to  Jefferson — Richard  Peters  to  King — 
The  pending  presidential  Election — Turnbull  to  King — Offer  of  Services 
of  his  Firm  at  Gibraltar  to  the  Consul  there. 

The  last  chapter  closes  the  year  1800  and  ends  with  the 
announcement  of  the  defeat  of  Mr.  Adams  in  the  Presiden- 
tial election  and  the  certainty  that  Mr.  King's  old  friends 
were  to  lose  the  power  to  control  the  destinies  of  the  coun- 
try, whether  Jefferson  or  Burr  succeeded  to  the  struggle. 
The  whole  policy  and  the  principles  upon  which  the  public 
affairs  had,  except  perhaps  in  the  last  years  of  Adams's  ad- 
ministration, been  conducted  were  certainly  to  be  changed, 
if  Jefferson  or  Burr  were  true  to  those  they  had  advocated. 

360 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  361 

Both  of  these  had  made  vague  professions,  intending  to  win 
for  themselves  the  office  they  coveted  and  to  give  currency 
to  the  belief  that  no  great  changes  would  be  made  either  in 
administration  and  in  those  who  were  holding  public  offices, 
yet,  as  has  been  seen,  these  promises  were  distrusted  by  even 
the  most  sanguine  of  their  opponents. 

Mr.  King  could  not  help  feeling  anxiety  in  reference  to 
the  effect  of  the  change  in  policy  which  might  take  place, 
and  to  his  own  position  as  the  representative  of  his  country 
in  England,  where  he  held  a  conspicuous  and  respected  as 
well  as  influential  position,  and  where  he  had  now  a  settled 
home  and  an  enviable  social  standing.  Would  he  have  the 
confidence  of  those  who  were  to  direct  his  course  in  the 
troubled  affairs  of  European  rivalry  and  war,  as  hitherto  he 
had  been  able  to  do  among  the  most  trying  circumstances, 
and  with  manifest  advantage  to  the  country,  or  would  he  be 
removed  from  his  field  of  usefulness  by  the  appointment  of 
another  as  Minister,  or  he  himself  be  continued  in  office, 
yet  hampered  by  instructions.  He  had  for  many  years  no 
doubt  that  he  enjoyed  the  friendship  as  well  as  support  of 
those  in  authority  at  home,  and  the  consciousness  that  he 
often  counselled  wisely  in  the  conduct  of  affairs,  and  that 
those  with  whom  he  had  to  deal  abroad  had  learned  to 
respect  his  straightforward  presentation  of  his  case  in  mat- 
ters under  discussion,  his  firm  yet  courteous  demands  for  his 
country's  rights,  and  his  personal  character  and  integrity. 

The  coalition  of  the  Northern  powers  of  Europe  against 
England  threatening  her  commerce  and  the  maritime  rights 
she  claimed,  the  recent  convention  with  France,  with  the  un- 
certainty whether  it  would  be  ratified  at  home,  the  effect  it 
might  have  upon  England,  as  showing  a  partiality  to  her 
enemy,  and  interfering  not  only  with  existing  relations,  but 
with  the  negotiations  which  had  been  intrusted  to  him  and 
were  progressing  slowly  indeed  but  still  under  way  with 
some  prospect  of  success,  and  in  which  he  had  confidence 
that  results  good  for  his  country  would  follow  his  careful 
management,  and   the   possible  removal   from   the  field   in 


362  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 

which  they  were  to  be  prosecuted,  may  well  have  caused  him 
anxiety  and  possibly  a  natural  disappointment  that  his  labors 
should  be  lost,  or  that  another  should  reap  the  credit  for 
what  he  justly  felt  was  his  due.  Though  he  had  no  doubts 
of  what  might  be  his  duty,  he  had  of  the  policy  that,  if 
retained  abroad,  he  might  be  called  upon  to  advocate,  judg- 
ing from  the  antecedents  of  those  who  were  certainly  coming 
into  power. 


J.  McHenry  to  R.  King. 


2  January,  1801. 


It  is  now  officially  ascertained  that  Mess.  Jefferson  &  Burr  have 
each  73  votes  for  President  &  Vice-President.  Mr.  Adams  65  & 
Genl.  Pinckney  64,  consequently  that  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives must  decide  between  Mr.  Jefferson  &  Mr.  Burr. 

Seneca,  or  somebody  for  him,  observes  :  "  Whatever  happens, 
think  that  it  ought  to  happen,  and  cast  no  reproach  upon  nature." 
I  cast  no  reproach  upon  nature  ;  but  I  sincerely  wish  Mr.  Adams 
had  taken  the  advice  of  his  best  friends,  who  counselled  against 
sending  the  last  mission  to  France,  and  had  not  made  incurable 
inroads  on  the  federal  party,  by  taking  a  course  which  has  lost  to 
him  the  Presidency,  and  led  to  his  utter  debasement.  Where  is 
all  this  to  end  ?  If  the  House  of  Representatives  should  choose 
Mr.  Jefferson  we  undoubtedly  have  to  apprehend  a  change  in 
some  most  essential  points  of  our  Government,  and  great  national 
interests.  If  Mr.  Burr  succeeds,  we  may  flatter  ourselves  that  he 
will  not  suffer  the  Executive  power  to  be  frittered  into  insignifi- 
cance ;  but  can  we  promise  ourselves,  that  he  will  not  continue 
to  seek  and  depend  upon  his  own  party,  for  support  ?  These  are 
problems  we  must  leave  to  time  to  solve. 

Genl.  Saml.  Smith,  who  is  extremely  anxious  for  the  election  of 
Mr.  Jefferson,  has  drawn  a  letter  from  Mr.  Burr,  dated  the  16  Deer, 
from  which  he  has  published  the  following  extract,  on  the  27 
Deer.  ulto.  :  "  It  is  highly  improbable  that  I  shall  have  an  equal 
number  of  votes  with  Mr.  Jefferson  ;  but  if  such  should  be  the 
result,  every  man  who  knows  me  ought  to  know,  that  I  would  ut- 
terly disclaim  all  competition.     Be  assured  that  the  federal  party 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  363 

can  entertain  no  wish  for  such  an  exchange.  As  to  my  friends, 
they  would  dishonour  my  views  and  insult  my  feelings,  by  a  sus- 
picion that  I  would  submit  to  be  instrumental  in  counteracting 
the  wishes  and  expectation  of  the  United  States,  and  I  now  con- 
stitute you  my  proxy  to  declare  these  sentiments  if  the  occasion 
shall  require." 

Some  of  our  Federalists  who  have  been  here  on  a  Christmas 
visit,  seemed  determined  to  run  Burr  notwithstanding  this  letter. 
They  do  not  consider  that  in  it  he  has  committed  himself,  not  to 
accept  of  the  office  of  President,  if  elected  by  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives. They  think  they  understand  Burr,  and  that  he  will 
not  be  very  angry  at  being  aided  by  the  Federalists,  to  outwit  the 
Jeffersonians.  The  fact  is,  the  opposition  are  in  the  most  violent 
state  of  apprehension  lest  Mr.  Jefferson  should  not  be  chosen. 
The  calculation  at  the  Seat  of  Government  now  is  :  N.  Hamp- 
shire, Massachusetts,  Rhode  Island,  Connecticut,  Delaware,  South 
Carolina  in  favor  of  Burr,  Vermont  &  Maryland  divided.  This 
leaves  but  8  States  to  vote  for  Jefferson  and  the  probability  is  that 
N.  Jersey  will  be  for  Burr.  If  so  it  makes  seven  for  Burr  &  seven 
for  Jefferson  and  two  divided. 

Understand  that  the  democrats  in  Congress  are  in  a  rage  for 
having  acted  with  good  faith,  that  they  swear  they  will  never  do 
jt  again  and  mutually  criminate  each  other  for  having  done  so 
now  ;  each  declaring  if  they  had  not  had  full  confidence  in  the 
Treachery  of  the  others  they  would  have  been  Treacherous  them- 
selves, and  not  acted  as  they  promised  to  act  at  Philadelphia  last 
winter  viz  :  to  give  equal  votes  for  Jefferson  and  Burr. 

Rhode  Island  it  is  understood  gave  Mr.  Adams  four  votes  and 
Genl.  Pinckney  but  three  votes.  I  lament  this  defection  &  the 
more  so  because  the  Electors  were  all  federalists. 

The  federalists  in  the  other  States  kept  good  faith.  Genl. 
Pinckney  acted  nobly.  He  could  have  secured  the  8  votes  of  S. 
Carolina  for  himself  but  because  he  could  not  obtain  as  many  for 
Mr.  Adams  they  were  refused. 

The  convention  lately  entered  into  with  France  is  before  the 
Senate.  Is  it  liked  ?  No.  As  to  it's  fate  ;  some  think  it  will 
be  rejected  ;  others  that  it  will  be  accepted  with  modifications 
and  exceptions  ;  no  one  that  it  will  be  ratified  as  it  is. 

Mr.  Dexter  was   nominated  on  the  30th  ulto.  Secretary  of  the 


364  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 

Treasury  in  the  Room  of  Oliver  Wolcott  Esqr.  resigned.  I  do 
not  learn  who  is  to  be  Secretary  of  War,  in  the  room  of  Mr. 
Dexter  ;  and  I  am  at  a  loss  to  comprehend  the  motive  which  may 
have  induced  the  President  to  make  this  nomination,  or  those 
which  can  weigh  with  Mr.  Dexter  to  change  his  Situation  for  two 
months. 

Your  faithful  &  obliged  Humble  Servt. 

James  McHenry. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  96. 

London,  Jany.  3,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  annexed  Paper  is  the  copy  of  a  Note  which  I  have  received 

from  Lord  Grenville,  announcing  the  alteration  of  the  King's  Style 

and  Title  in  consequence  of  the  Union  of  the  Kingdoms  of  Great 

Britain  and  Ireland. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Lord  Grenville  to  Rufus  King,  Esq. 

The  undersigned  principal  Secretary  of  State  for  foreign  Affairs 
has  received  the  King's  commands  to  inform  Mr.  King  that  his 
Majesty  has  thought  proper  in  consequence  of  the  Union  of  this 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  to  make  an  alteration  in 
His  Majesty's  Stile  and  Title,  and  that  henceforth  the  Stile  and 
Title  appertaining  to  the  Imperial  Crown  of  Great  Britain  and 
Ireland  will  be  expressed  in  the  Latin  language  by  the  words 

"  Georgius  Tertius  Dei  gratia  Britanniarum   Rex,   Fidei  De- 
fensor," &c.  &c.  &c. 
and  in  the  English  language  by  the  words 

"  George  the  Third  by  the  grace  of  God  of  the  United  King- 
"  doms  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  King,  Defender  of  the  Faith," 
&c.  &c.  &c. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  365 

The  undersigned  requests  Mr.  King  to  communicate  this  altera- 
tion to  his  Government  in  order  that  the  Ministers  of  the  United 
States  may  be  apprized  of  the  form  in  which  all  letters  to  the  King 
are  hereafter  to  be  addressed. 

The  undersigned  requests  Mr.  King  to  accept  the  assurances  of 
his  high  consideration. 

(Signed)  Grenville. 

Downing  Street,  January  I,  1801. 


R.  King  to  the  Rt.  Hon.  Lord  Grenville. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  January  5,  1801. 

The  undersigned,  Minister  Plenipotentiary,  has  the  honour  to 
acknowledge  the  receipt  of  Lord  Grenville's  Note  of  the  1st  in- 
stant, announcing  the  alteration  in  the  Style  and  Title  of  his 
Britannic  Majesty  in  consequence  of  the  Union  of  the  Kingdoms 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  and  agreeably  to  his  Lordship's  re- 
quest has  transmitted  a  copy  of  the  Note  to  his  Government. 

The  undersigned  requests  Lord  Grenville  to  accept  the  assur- 
ance of  his  high  consideration. 

Rufus  King. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Philadelphia,  Jany.  5,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Letters  received  here  on  Saturday  (the  3d)  from  the  City  of 
Washington,  mention  the  nomination  of  Mr.  Dexter  to  be 
secretary  of  the  Treasury. — The  President  has  nominated  Mr. 
Jay  to  be  Chief  Justice  in  the  room  of  Judge  Ellsworth.  The 
Senate  of  course  ratified  the  nomination  ;  but  the  P.  as  well  as 
every  body  else  must  know  that  Mr.  Jay  will  not  accept  the  office. 
He  formally  announced  to  the  Legislature  of  New  York  his 
determination  to  retire  from  public  life,  on  account  of  his  ad- 
vanced age  and  infirmities.  Under  such  circumstances,  nobody 
but  Mr.  A.  would  have  made  the  nomination  without  consulting 
Mr.  Jay.     Until  I  came  to  Philadelphia  I  was  uncertain  whether 


366  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 


Mr.  Ellsworth  was  in  Europe,  or  had  come  home  with  Governor 
Davie.  I  find  he  went  from  France  to  England.  You  will  learn 
from  him  the  motives  which  induced  him  and  his  colleagues  to 
make  such  a  convention  with  France  ;  it  is  reprobated  by  both 
parties,  and  if  ratified,  it  will  be  with  exceptions  ;  and  a  con- 
ditional ratification  will  put  it  in  the  power  of  France  to  abandon 
the  whole  ;  and  after  all  the  delay  and  expence  of  the  negotiation, 
(to  say  nothing  of  the  infinite  mischief  resulting  from  the  mission 
in  the  U.  S.)  we  shall  be  left  exposed  to  all  the  evils  which  the 
envoys  hoped  to  avoid,  by  finishing  it  before  a  general  peace  took 
place  in  Europe. — Thus  the  issue  of  this  negotiation  appears  to  be 
as  unfortunate  as  its  instigation  was  unwise. 

It  is  now  ascertaified,  that  Mr.  Jefferson  and  Mr.  Burr  have  an 
equal  number  of  votes  each,  73  ;  and  the  devoted  friends  of  the 
former  are  alarmed  lest  the  federalists  should  prefer  the  latter  ;  or 
by  an  equal  division  of  the  states  in  the  house  of  representatives, 
prevent  any  choice.  This  would  place  the  Executive  Power  in 
the  hands  of  the  President  of  the  Senate  for  one  year,  and  give  the 
federalists  a  new  chance  to  elect  a  federal  President.  From  all 
that  I  hear,  I  am  rather  inclined  to  think  Mr.  Burr  will  be  pre- 
ferred. Fewer  changes  in  office  will  then  be  necessary.  General 
Marshall  may  then  remain  in  the  department  of  state  ;  but  if  Mr. 
Jefferson  be  chosen,  Mr.  Marshall  will  retire.  Mr.  Dexter,  I 
think,  will  remain  in  office,  whoever  may  be  President  :  Some 
men  possess  a  happy  temper  of  accommodation.  I  conjecture 
that  General  Wilkinson  will  be  appointed  Secretary  of  War,  and 
General  Samuel  Smith  of  Baltimore  Secretary  of  the  Navy. 
Smith  &  Burr  are  now  in  this  city — doubtless  by  concert. — There 
are  said  to  be  many  ingenious  reasons  why  the  federalists  at  Wash- 
ington are  inclined  to  prefer  Mr.  Burr.  I  am  not  informed  of 
them  ;  but  besides  the  one  above  intimated,  they  probably  suppose 
that  the  federal  interests  will  not  be  so  syste?natically  opposed 
under  Mr.  B.  as  under  Mr.  J.  Perhaps  this  may  be  previously 
understood.  In  case  of  a  war  with  any  European  power,  there  can 
be  no  doubt  which  of  the  two  would  conduct  it  with  most  ability 
and  energy. 

The  President,  I  am  told,  is  in  a  state  of  deep  dejection  ; 
His  feelings  are  not  to  be  envied.  To  his  unadvised  (to  use  a 
mild  term)  measures  are  traced  the  evils  with  which  the  whole  of 


1801]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  367 

our  country  is  now  perplexed  &  depressed.  And  many  discern- 
ing federalists,  at  least  doubted,  which  was  most  to  be  deprecated, 
— his  re-election,  or  Mr.  Jefferson's  elevation  to  the  Presidency. 

As.  Mr.  Jay  will  certainly  refuse  the  Chief  Justiceship,  I 
presume  Judge  Patterson  will  be  appointed  ;  and  his  vacancy,  I 
am  disposed  to  think,  will  be  filled  either  from  N.  York  or  Penn- 
sylvania.    If  from  the  former,  perhaps  by  Judge  Lawrance. 

I  am  very  sincerely  yours, 

Timothy  Pickering. 


J.  Lawrance  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  Jany.  12,  1801. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Our  political  affairs  have  undergone  a  change.  It  is  very  well 
ascertained  that  Mr.  Jefferson  and  Mr.  Burr,  have  an  equal 
Number  of  votes,  and  both  a  Majority,  a  case  contemplated  by 
the  Constitution  ;  but  it  is  yet  uncertain  who  will  be  elected  by 
the  House  of  Representatives  voting  by  States,  if  either  will  be. 
Some  Persons  conjecture  we  shall  be  left  without  a  President ; 
the  Constitution,  in  case  a  Majority  is  not  obtained,  not  being 
provisional — an  Event  much  to  be  regretted,  if  it  should  occur- 
but  I  hope  it  will  not,  and  of  the  two  Persons  Mr.  Jefferson  may 
be  chosen.  Our  latest  intelligence  from  the  City  of  Washington, 
makes  it  very  problematical,  whether  the  Convention  with  France 
will  be  ratified,  except  conditionally,  and  with  a  clause  limiting 
its  duration.  The  policy  of  this  measure  is  by  some  of  our  sensi- 
ble Men  much  questioned.  The  general  wish,  I  believe,  here  is, 
that  it  should  be  taken  as  it  is,  however  I  am  induced  to  believe, 
from  what  I  have  heard,  that  it  will  not  be.  What  change  in 
sentiment,  the  late  Intelligence  from  Europe  may  occasion  at 
Washington,  or  whether  it  will  occasion  any,  is  now  only  Con- 
jecture ;  but  it  may,  probably,  render  a  decision  on  it,  rather 
more  delicate  than  it  was — I  hope  all  will  go  well,  although  I  fear 
our  tranquillity  may  be  hazarded. 

The  Scarcity  of  Grain  in  England  has  had  an  Effect  on  our 
Prices  here.  Our  Agricultural  Interest  will  feel  the  benefit  of  it, 
and  I  hope  will  improve  the  Circumstance  more  to  their  benefit, 


368  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

than  was  done  some  years  since,  when  the  Prices  were  rather 
higher. 

It  is  not  improbable  our  political  changes  may  bring  you  home 
again.  I  know  not  whether  they  will,  but  should  that  be  the 
Case,  you  will  have  here  a  very  cordial  reception  from  your 
Friends.  I  rank  myself  as  one  of  the  number,  and  I  should  be 
sorry  to  take  my  Departure  from  hence,  without  again  having  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  you. 

Yours  very  sincerely, 

John  Lawrance. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  97. 

London,  Jany.  15,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  was  pretty  generally  believed  to  be  probable  the  superiority, 
and  farther  successes  of  the  French  arms  have  obliged  the 
Emperor  to  demand  a  new  armistice,  which  has  been  granted 
upon  his  engagement  to  treat  separately  for  the  conclusion  of 
Peace  with  France.  Accordingly  by  a  recent  message  of  the  First 
Consul  to  the  Legislative  Body,  the  terms  of  Peace  will  not  be 
rendered  more  burthensome  upon  Austria,  than  would  have  been 
executed  before  the  last  resumption  of  Hostilities. 

As  France  gives  the  Law  to  her  enemy,  the  war  of  the  conti- 
nent seems  about  to  be  closed,  and  according  to  every  appear- 
ance will  be  followed  by  a  maritime  war  between  England  single 
handed  on  one  side,  for  Turkey  and  Portugal  cannot  be  of  much 
importance  on  whatever  side  they  may  be  engaged,  against  the 
rest  of  Europe  on  the  other.  It  is  hoped  that  Prussia  will  not  join 
the  Confederacy,  which  has  at  length  been  concluded  between 
Denmark,  Sweden,  &  Russia.  England  is  resolved  to  resist  with 
all  her  means  the  Pretensions  of  the  Confederates  ;  and  so  far  as 
it  is  yet  practicable  to  discover  the  public  sentiment  upon  the 
Question,  the  Government  will  receive  all  the  support  it  can 
expect  from  every  Quarter  of  the  Nation.  An  order  of  Council 
was  yesterday  passed,  laying  an  embargo  upon  all  Russian,  Swed- 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  369 

ish,  and  Danish  vessels  in  the  Ports  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland, 
and  war  with  these  powers  appears  unavoidable  ;  perhaps  the  die 
is  already  cast. 

This  intelligence,  Sir,  is  the  fruitful  source  of  important  reflec- 
tions with  regard  to  the  real  interest  and  true  policy  of  the  United 
States.  It  is  fortunate  that  our  disagreement  with  France  is 
settled  ;  and  not  only  the  justice  of  our  demands  but  the  present 
posture  of  Europe  ought  to  have  their  proper  influence  in  favour 
of  a  speedy  and  satisfactory  adjustment  of  our  affairs  with  this 
Country  ;  but  that  this  result  may  be  expected  is  more  than  I  can 
engage,  tho'  I  do  not  yet  perceive  that  it  is  to  be  despaired  of. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  98. 

London,  Jany.  17,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  wish  I  could  send  you  a  more  satisfactory  account  of  the 
Negotiation  with  this  Government  with  which  I  am  charged  ; 
some  time  ago  Lord  Grenville  informed  me  that  on  account  of  his 
numerous  and  pressing  engagements,  he  should  be  obliged  to 
employ  some  Person  to  discuss  with  me  the  arrangement  respect- 
ing the  6th  article  which  I  had  proposed,  and  after  mentioning 
Mr.  Anstey,  one  of  the  Commissioners  under  the  7th  article,  asked 
me  if  I  had  any  objection  to  confer  with  him  ;  adding  that 
although  it  had  occurred  to  him  that  any  definite  article  might 
better  be  concluded  between  himself  and  me,  if  I  had  any  scruple 
in  holding  the  preliminary  discussions  with  Mr.  Anstey,  he  would 
give  him  a  commission  not  only  to  treat,  but  to  sign.  As  I  pre- 
ferred that  the  final  descision  of  the  business  should  remain  with 
Lord  Grenville,  I  signified  my  acquiescence  in  the  course  he  had 
suggested,  and  several  papers  have  been  exchanged  between  Mr. 
Anstey  and  me  ;  though  I  cannot  yet  determine  what  may  be  the 
issue  of  our  discussions,  I  think  I  shall  be  able  in  a  short  time  to 
ascertain  the  expectations  of  this  government.  Shd.  a  satisfactory 
conclusion  become  unattainable  in  the  course  in  which  we  are 

VOL.  III. — 24 


370  RUFUS  KING.  [r8oi 

now  engaged,  it  will  be  my  duty  to  terminate  the  conference 
upon  the  proposition  I  have  made,  and  insist  upon  the  justness 
and  propriety  of  the  explanatory  articles  we  have  before  demanded. 
In  consequence  of  late  letters  from  Tunis,  I  shall  cause  the 
whole  of  the  articles  contained  in  the  List  of  Presents  to  that 
Regency  to  be  prepared  and  sent  to  the  Consul  Mr.  Eaton. 
Funds  must  be  remitted  for  this  Purpose ;  to  guard  against 
accidents,  I  shall  order  the  goods  to  be  insured.  The  annexed 
Note  of  Lord  Grenville  requires  no  commentary. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem, 

Rufus  King. 

Downing  Street,  Jany.  u,  1801. 

Lord  Grenville  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  King ;  and  has 
the  honour  to  send  him  inclosed  the  extract  of  a  dispatch  which 
he  has  received  from  his  excellency,  the  Earl  of  Elgin,  his 
Majesty's  embassador  at  Constantinople. 

Extract  of  dispatch  from  his  Excellency  the  Earl  of  Elgin  to 
Lord  Grenville,  dated  Constantinople,  November  29,  1800  : 

"  A  few  days  ago  a  Frigate  anchored  in  this  Harbour  under 
American  colours,  and  having  at  her  main  the  Algerine  Flag. 
She  proved  to  be  '  The  George  Washington  '  American  Frigate, 
commanded  by  Capt.  Bainbridge,  and  having  on  board  the 
Ambassador  and  Presents  from  the  Dey  of  Algiers. 

"  Nothing  material  passed  on  the  arrival  of  the  ship,  although 
the  appearance  of  the  first  American  Vessel  that  had  ever  been 
seen  on  these  seas,  and  the  neglect  of  Captain  Bainbridge  to  at- 
tend to  the  ceremonial  observ'd  by  all  foreign  Powers  in  entering 
the  Dardanelles  has  created  a  good  deal  of  surmise  ;  when  how- 
ever this  came  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Captain,  he  called  upon 
me,  and  having  explained  the  accidental  circumstances  that  had 
led  to  this  voyage,  he  stated  that  he  was  both  unapprized  of 
the  necessity  of  his  having  the  protection  of  a  foreign  Resident 
Minister  at  the  Porte,  and  unprepared  to  apply  in  a  proper  way 
to  any  one  here  ;  but  from  his  belief  that  the  United  States  were 
in  perfect  amity  with  Great  Britain,  and  from  his  hearty  desire 
that  it  might  be  so,  he  begged  leave  to  put  himself  under  the 
protection  of  the  King's  Embassador. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  37 1 

"  Your  Lordship  will  recollect  the  conversations  which  I  was 
authorized  to  hold  with  Mr.  Rufus  King  previous  to  my  leaving 
England,  and  the  recommendation  I  received  from  him  with  your 
knowledge  in  favour  of  the  interests  of  America  with  Turkey.  .  .  . 
I  further  have  been  informed  by  his  Majesty's  Consul  at  Algiers 
that  this  Frigate  has  come  here  in  some  degree  to  accommodate 
Lord  Keith.  Under  these  circumstances  I  shall  not  hesitate  to 
accept  Captain  Bainbridge's  proposal.  In  the  meanwhile  Capitan 
Pasha  charged  Mr.  with  requesting  Captain  Bainbridge 

in  my  name  to  take  down  the  Algerine  Flag.  The  Captain  was 
called  to  a  meeting  when  he  readily  complied  with  his  demand, 
and  obtained  very  civilly  the  permission  to  substitute  the  American 
Pendant." 


Richard  Peters  to  R.  King. 

Writing  to  Rufus  King  about  the  capture  of  some  of 
Stephen  Girard's  vessels  *  and  his  claim  to  protection  as 
one  domiciliated  in  the  United  States,  etc.,  Mr.  Peters  says 
about  public  affairs: 

Philadelphia,  Jany.  18,  1801. 

You  will  have  better  information  than  I  can  give  you  relative 
to  the  state  of  Parties  and  Politics  here.  I  know  enough  to  dis- 
gust me  and  I  do  not  wish  to  transfer  any  of  my  Desagremens 
over  the  Atlantic.  'Tis  heavy  with  us  poor  Feds.  We  may  rise 
like  Antaeus  after  touching  the  Earth.  We  are  now  in  the  Dirt, 
if  that  is  a  step  to  rising.  Whether  Mr.  Jefferson  or  Mr.  Burr 
will  be  the  President,  no  mortal  can  now  tell.  The  Federalists  in 
Congress  incline  to  the  latter.  Why,  I  cannot  tell  unless  it  be  on 
the  principle  of  the  man  who  had  to  choose  a  wife,  either  one  or 
the  other,  of  a  tall  or  short  woman  ;  and  he  took  the  short  one 
on  the  old  adage,  of  two  evils  choose  the  least.  The  Federal 
members  voting  in  States,  have  not  strength  to  choose,  tho'  they 
may  prevent  a  choice.  But  I  cannot  believe  they  will  take  the 
responsibility  of  leaving  the  Government  without  an  Executive. 

I  am  with  very  sincere  esteem  &c. 

Richard  Peters. 

*  See  R.  K.'s  letter  to  Lord  Hawkesbury,  March  6,  p.  397. 


372  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

J.  Hale  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  21  Jany.  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

By  a  line  from  Mason  last  mail  I  am  informed  that  our  Senate 
have  rejected  the  second  &  third  articles  of  the  French  treaty  by 
a  majority  of  sixteen  to  eleven  ;  that  they  have  unanimously 
determined  to  have  a  clause  inserted  which  shall  prevent  any 
possibility  of  interference  with  the  British  treaty  ;  &  that  it  will 
be  limited  in  its  duration  to  ten  years  or  two  years  after  the  war  ; 
&  that  with  these  alterations  it  will  be  ratified. 

It  thus  seems  to  be  the  sense  of  the  Senate  to  abandon  all 
claims  for  indemnity  and  also  to  preseverein  the  abandonment  of 
former  treaties  without  aiming  at  any  after  negotiations  upon  these 
subjects,  and  to  consent  to  this  famous  treaty  as  a  mere  com- 
mercial arrangement  for  the  sake  of  peace  with  the  wonderful 
French  nation. 

It  has  been  suggested  that  the  conduct  &  feelings  of  some 
gentlemen  lately  in  France  bear  a  little  analogy  to  those  of  Mr. 
Gerry  when  there.  A  strange  quality  indeed  there  must  be  in 
the  air  of  Paris  to  un-tone  the  nervous  system.  By  a  strange 
fatality,  our  negotiations  there  have  at  all  times  shown  the  least 
firmness  where  a  man  with  the  true  feelings  of  a  man  would  have 
at  least  affected  the  most.  The  battle  of  Marengo  instead  of 
obviously  lowering  ought  to  have  seemingly  elevated  the  crests 
of  our  Envoys.  Every  day  tells  me  not  to  be  too  lavish  in  my 
respect  for  many  men  viewed  as  most  respectable  ;  especially 
our  old  seventy-five  men  grow  out  of  fashion  with  me.  Most  of 
these  have  too  much  exclusive  knowledge  &  yet  very  few  indeed 
of  them  know  how  to  profit  of  their  many  years'  experience. 

Whether  Jefferson  or  Burr  will  be  our  next  President  depends 
upon  the  suffrages  of  our  House  of  Representatives.  I  am 
inclined  to  think  B's  chance  about  equal  to  the  other.  He  has 
my  voice  because  I  consider  his  opposition  hitherto  to  have 
arisen  from  ambitious  motives.  His  talents  &  information  pre- 
clude the  possibility  of  his  being  considered  as  honest  in  his 
politics  as  Mr.  Jefferson. 

Your  friend  &  most  obed.  servt. 

J.  Hale. 


1801]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  373 

Mr.  J.  Turnbull,  of  the  house  of  J.  Turnbull  &  Co.  at 
Gibraltar,  wrote  on  January  17th  to  Mr.  King,  offering  their 
services  in  case  of  the  absence  or  indisposition  of  the  American 
Consul,  Mr.  Gravino,  to  citizens  of  the  United  States  who 
might  need  them,  Mr.  Gravino  himself  being  satisfied  that 
this  would  be  personally  agreeable  to  him.  To  this  Mr. 
King  answered  in  a  letter  addressed  to  J.  Turnbull  &  Co., 
acknowledging  "  this  proof  of  the  friendly  and  obliging  dis- 
position .  .  .  of  a  house  so  long  established  and  exten- 
sively known  and  respected  throughout  the  Mediterranean," 
and  requesting  their  good  offices  in  favor  of  such  of  his 
countrymen  as  might  ask  for  them.  Writing  afterwards,  on 
March  23d,  Messrs.  Turnbull  &  Co.,  expressing  their  thanks 
to  Mr.  King  for  his  good  opinion  of  them,  say: 

"  The  American  Trade  to  this  quarter,  within  these  few  years 
last  past  has  increased  most  surprisingly,  and  the  importations  and 
the  number  of  vessels  that  weekly  arrive  and  call  in  on  the  pas- 
sage to  and  from  the  Mediterranean  are  very  considerable.  It 
will  give  us,  you  may  depend,  the  utmost  pleasure  to  be  useful  to 
them." 


CHAPTER   XXVII. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — England  notifies  Members  of  the  Northern  Con- 
federacy that  she  would  use  all  her  Resources  in  Defence  of  her  Rights — 
If  Prussia  joins  she  is  cut  off  from  the  Continent — Public  Opinion  disturbed 
in  England — Present  Moment  favorable  for  a  satisfactory  Settlement  of 
United  States  Affairs — Difficulties,  Indecision  and  Delay  by  Ministers — 
Urges  Reforms  in  Admiralty  Courts,  and  Settlement  of  Questions  under 
6th  Article — W.  Wilberforce  to  King — Confidence  in  him — King  to  Pick- 
ering— England  excluded  from  the  Continent — America  will  adhere  to  her 
old  Maxims — Cabot  to  King — Federalists  prefer  Burr — Hope  that  King 
will  not  come  Home — Northern  Coalition  unfavorable  to  Neutrals — King 
to  Bainbridge,  relative  to  the  Misunderstanding  at  Constantinople — King 
to  Stoddard — Same  Subject — Bainbridge  to  King — Report  of  the  Case — 
King  to  Truxton — Lloyd's  Gift  of  Plate  to  him — King  to  Troup — News  of 
Jefferson's  Election — Hopes  for  the  Best — Northern  Confederation — King 
to  Secretary  of  State — Tenor  of  the  Northern  Confederacy  not  exactly 
known — Effect  on  Hanover — League  a  hostile  Aggression  to  be  resisted 
with  Force  by  England — Conference  with  Lord  Grenville — If  Blockade  of 
the  Baltic,  the  United  States  would  claim  to  enjoy  her  Rights  of  Trade — 
Lord  Grenville  said  a  Relaxation  with  Reference  to  the  United  States 
might  be  agreed  to — Interruption  of  Trade  through  New  Orleans — Change 
in  English  Ministry — Pitt  and  Colleagues  have  resigned  on  Question  of  the 
Emancipation  of  the  Catholics — Duke  of  Portland  First  Lord  of  the  Treas- 
ury— Thought  a  Proposal  will  be  made  to  France  to  treat  for  Peace — Dis- 
agreement among  Northern  Confederacy — Russia's  Intrigues — King  to 
Lord  Grenville — Regrets  his  Resignation,  both  on  public  and  private 
Grounds — Had  hoped  to  settle  with  him  the  Questions  under  Discussion 
between  the  Governments — Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  99. 

London,  Jan'y  22,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  the  late  conferences  which  the   Envoys   of  Denmark  and 

Sweden  have  held  with  Lord  Grenville  relative  to   the  Northern 

Confederacy,  he  informed  them,  that  after  giving  to  the  subject 

that   deliberate   and    full    examination    which    its    importance 

374 


l8oi]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  375 


required,  England  could  not  avoid  considering  the  measure  as 
an  aggression  upon  those  Maritime  Rights  which  she  had  im- 
memorially  claimed,  which  have  been  acknowledged  by  all 
Europe,  and  which  she  could  not  relinquish  without  at  the  same 
time  giving  up  the  use  of  those  means  upon  which  her  security  as 
a  Nation  chiefly  depended  ;  that  she  had  therefore  resolved  to 
call  forth  the  whole  Resources  of  her  People  in  the  defence  of 
Rights  which  belonged  to  her  by  indisputable  Title  and  were 
moreover  essential  to  her  safety  and  independence. 

As  there  is  little  probability  that  what  has  been  concluded  will 
be  altered,  it  daily  appears  more  certain  that  war  is  unavoidable 
between  this  Country  and  the  three  Northern  Powers.  It  is  said 
that  Prussia  has  acceded  to  the  League  upon  certain  conditions  ; 
not  being  a  maritime  Power  she  is  to  employ  arguments  instead 
of  arms  in  support  of  it.  A  Peace  with  France  is  necessary  to  the 
existence  of  the  Austrian  Monarchy.  All  Italy  must  receive  the 
Law,  and  Portugal  will  no  longer  be  able  to  refuse  it.  Should 
Prussia  be  considered  as  having  entered  into  the  Confederacy, 
England  will  be  shut  out  of  every  Part  of  Europe  from  the  ex- 
treme North  to  the  Territory  of  the  Turk  in  the  South.  Our 
Merchants  from  the  spirit  of  enterprise  with  which  they  prosecute 
their  commerce  will  be  likely  to  send  their  ships  to  the  Baltic  in 
greater  numbers  than  formerly.  But  I  am  not  sure  that  this 
Country,  which  is  understood  to  have  on  hand  of  the  various  sorts 
of  naval  Stores  procured  from  the  North  sufficient  for  two  years' 
consumption,  may  not  institute  a  Blockade  at  the  entrance  of  the 
Baltic  Sea,  in  which  case  all  trade  in  that  quarter  will  be  cut  off. 
This  is  mere  conjecture  ;  but,  after  what  we  have  heretofore  wit- 
nessed, it  is  by  no  means  improbable. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus   King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  ioo. 

London,  Jan'y  23,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  situation  of  this  Country  is  replete  with  Difficulties  in 
which  the  Merchants  and  Underwriters  are  deeply  affected  by  the 
embarrassments  and  losses  proceeding  from  the  interruption  of 


376  KUFUS  KING.  [180 1 


Trade,  and  fearful  to  engage  in  new  adventures  to  any  part  of 
Europe,  some  of  the  Manufacturers  are  beginning  to  complain, 
and  the  whole  of  that  influential  body  may  be  expected  to  follow 
the  example  of  those  of  Leeds,  should  the  present  difficulties, 
according  to  every  appearance,  increase  and  extend  themselves. 
The  Funds  continue  falling,  and  the  public  opinion  is  manifestly 
disturbed  and  unstable. 

The  United  Parliament  has  just  met,  and  it  will  be  attempted, 
without  doubt,  to  hold  forth  such  sentiments  as  shall  be  calculated 
to  rouse  the  national  courage  and  dispel  those  apprehensions 
which  are  so  contagious,  and  at  the  same  time  so  dangerous  in 
populous  countries. 

I  have  not  been  unmindful  that  the  moment  is  favorable  to 
a  fair  and  satisfactory  Settlement  of  our  affairs,  and  by  all  the 
means  in  my  power  have  endeavoured  to  hasten  it.  But  those 
who  have  had  an  opportunity  of  studying  the  character  of  this 
Government  must  know  that  one  of  its  greatest  vices  is  indecision 
and  delay  ;  measures  are  therefore  often  postponed  to  the  last 
hour  and  then  decided  upon  the  casual  impression  of  the  mo- 
ment. Whether  my  discussions  with  Mr.  Anstey  will  attain  a  satis- 
factory termination  is  still  uncertain  :  the  business  has  nearly 
reached  the  stage,  at  which  this  point  must  be  decided,  and  I  shall 
lose  no  time  in  communicating  the  result. 

In  repeated  conferences  and  notes  I  have  urged  the  necessity  of 
a  reform  in  the  Vice-admiralty  Courts  of  the  West  Indies,  as  the 
best  means  of  putting  a  stop  to  the  depredations  upon  our  com- 
merce. This  measure  has  at  length  been  decided  upon,  and 
orders  were  yesterday  despatched  to  the  West  Indies,  suppressing 
all  the  Vice-admiralty  Courts,  except  two,  one  at  Jamaica,  another 
in  the  Windward  Islands.  It  is  proposed  to  establish  permanent 
salaries  for  these  two  courts,  and  to  appoint  men  of  learning  and 
ability  to  preside  in  them.  Captain  Pellew  of  the  Cleopatra,  who 
has  vexed  our  trade  upon  our  own  coast  during  the  summer,  has 
upon  my  request  been  recalled  and  neither  he  nor  Captain 
Cochran  will  hereafter  be  employed  on  that  Station. 

Some  weeks  ago  I  delivered  to  Lord  Grenville  a  Draught  of 
three  articles  to  be  concluded  at  the  same  time  with  the  arrange- 
ment respecting  the  6th  article  ;  the  first  defining  with  greater 
precision   the    articles    of    naval    Stores  ;    the    second,   mutually 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  377 

agreeing  that  no  seaman  or  other  person  should  be  impressed  or 
taken  upon  the  high  seas,  by  one  party  out  of  the  merchant  ves- 
sels of  the  other  ;  the  third,  that  the  King  should  release  all 
claim  to  the  Maryland  Bank  Stock,  and  that  immediate  measures 
should  be  taken  to  transfer  it  to  that  State.  I  cannot  determine 
what  will  be  ultimately  decided  respecting  them.  The  ist  and 
the  3rd  will  probably  be  agreed  to,  provided  we  make  a  settle- 
ment respecting  the  6th  article  ;  the  second  is  of  the  greatest  im- 
portance and  for  that  as  well  as  other  reasons  will  meet  with  the 
most  difficulty. 

I  shall  write  to  you  again  in  a  few  days. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


W.    WlLBERFORCE    TO    R.    KlNG. 

Palace  Yd.,  Saty.,  Jany.  24.  1801. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  wish  much  for  the  pleasure  &  may  witht.  compliment  say  the 
Benefit  of  a  little  more  conversation  with  you,  &  time  being  a  rare 
article  with  me  I  take  the  liberty  of  sendg.  previously  to  ask  if  it 
will  be  quite  convent,  to  you  to  allow  me  to  call  on  you  to-day. 
I  love  frankness  so  much,  except  where  it  is  requisite  to  resort  to 
ceremony  in  order  to  keep  those  at  a  distance  whom  we  don't 
wish  to  approach,  that  I  will  add,  that  if  you  happened  to  be  dis- 
engaged &  have  no  company,  I  shd.  be  happy  to  partake  of  your 
family  dinner,  if  you  are  not  a  very  late  man,  my  Health  render- 
ing an  early  dinner  Hour  indispensable  to  me.  In  truth,  my  dear 
sir,  besides  one  point  of  importance  on  which  I  wish  to  have  some 
conversation  with  you,  I  am  extremely  desirous  of  profiting  from 
that  kind  confidence  you  are  disposed  to  repose  in  me.  I  hope  I 
need  not  assure  you  on  the  word  of  a  gentleman,  or  what  I  esteem 
a  much  more  sacred  pledge,  on  the  truth  of  a  Christian,  that  any 
obligation  of  secresy  which  you  impose  on  me  shall  be  scrupu- 
lously maintain'd  ;  and  the  Sentiment  I  express'd  the  other  day 
of  a  sense  of  the  Benefit  of  conferring  with  any  one  who  was  an 
observant  &  impartial  Bystander,  was  not  a  hasty  effusion  but  the 
result  of  deliberate  Reflection. 


378  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

I  wish  to  act  rightly  &  to  pursue  truth  &  Rectitude  &  my 
Country's  Happiness  with  Earnestness,  &  I  therefore  eagerly 
court  the  opportunity  of  availing  myself  of  the  Benefit  of  your 
Intelligence  &  Experience.  Excuse  this  effusion  ;  it  is  pour'd 
forth  with  sincerity  &  the  Effect  of  that  Esteem,  Regard  &  full 
confidence  with  which  I  am,  my  dear  Sir, 

Your  faithful  Servt. 

W.    WlLBERFORCE. 


R.  King  to  Col.  Pickering. 

London,  Jany.  26,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  You  will  be  surprised  at  the  changes  which  the  Conti- 
nent has  exhibited  within  the  course  of  a  few  months.  The 
armed  neutrality  is  resumed  in  the  North.  France  is  the  soul  of 
this  measure,  and  according  to  present  appearances  England  will 
be  excluded  from  every  part  of  Europe,  from  the  Extreme  North 
to  the  Regions  of  the  Turk.  All  Italy  must  obey  and  Portugal 
can  no  longer  refuse  the  law. 

America  will  be  courted  to  unite  in  the  League,  but  notwith- 
standing the  issue  of  the  Election,  which  we  believe  to  be  in  favor 
of  Mr.  Jefferson,  I  believe  and  say  to  all  who  ask  my  Opinion,  & 
the  subject  is  one  of  earnest  enquiry,  that  we  shall  adhere  to  the 
maxims  upon  which  we  have  hitherto  acted  and  form  no  political 
connexions  with  any  of  the  powers  of  Europe.  Our  Ships  are  al- 
ready in  great  demand  &,  be  the  result  what  it  may,  we  are  sure 
of  advantage  by  adhering  to  an  impartial  neutrality. 

Very  truly  and  sincerely  &c 

Rufus  King. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

January  28,  1801. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

Jefferson  &  Burr  have  each  73  votes  &  it  is,  as  you  well  know, 
for  the  house  to  decide  which  shall  be  first  :  the  Federalists  in 


l8oi]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  379 

general  are  for  Burr  &  great  efforts  are  making  to  secure  his 
preference  in  the  house.  I  think  however  they  will  not  suc- 
ceed &  I  think  they  ought  not  unless  Burr  will  &  Jefferson 
will  not  previously  engage  to  uphold  essentially  the  existing 
policy. 

We  every  day  hear  speculations  upon  the  probable  course  of 
the  new  administration.  It  is  generally  thought  here  that  Mr. 
King  will  certainly  come  home.  This  is  extremely  regretted  & 
especially  by  the  best  men.  It  seems  as  if  the  North  as  well  as 
South  of  Europe  is  at  length  to  be  employed  in  the  service  of 
France.  I  am  mortified  to  see  the  folly  of  the  Neutral  Powers  in 
swallowing  the  baits  held  out  to  them  without  examining  them. 
It  is  to  my  mind  perfectly  clear  that  the  doctrine  of  "  Free  Ships 
make  Free  Goods  "  is  the  most  pernicious  to  Neutrals  that  cou'd 
be  devised.  Neutrals  necessarily  derive  great  pecuniary  advan- 
tages from  the  universal  insecurity  of  Belligerent  property  on  the 
Seas  :  but  let  this  property  be  allowed  the  protection  of  a  Neutral 
Flag  and  those  advantages  are  at  an  end.  The  profit  to  Neutrals 
of  merely  carrying  the  goods  of  the  Belligerent  is  contemptible  & 
wou'd  be  overbalanced  at  the  close  of  every  war  by  the  great  ex- 
cess of  shipping  on  hand  which  wou'd  be  of  little  or  no  value — 
the  profit  of  Neutrals  does  not  arise  from  carrying  the  property 
of  Belligerents  but  it  arises  from  the  opportunity  which  war  pro- 
duces of  selling  extremely  dear  &  buying  extremely  cheap — that 
is  of  trading  where  the  market  is  under  supplied  with  what  they 
sell  &  overstocked  with  what  they  buy.  You  have  been  so  accus- 
tomed to  pursue  inquiries  on  these  subjects  that  I  shou'd  save 
you  very  little  trouble  of  investigation  by  filling  my  paper  with 
examples  to  prove  the  justness  of  my  opinion,  but  I  may  attempt 
in  the  newspapers  to  display  ideas  which  are  of  some  importance 
to  be  understood  by  our  people. 

The  Treaty  or  Convention  is  terribly  mauled  in  our  Senate  :  it 
will  not  pass  without  express  conditions  to  save  existing  Treaties, 
&  probably  some  of  the  articles  will  be  totally  rejected  &  others 
modified. 

Yours  faithfully 

G.  C. 


380  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

R.  King  to  W.  Bainbridge,  Esq. 

London,  Jany.  30,  1801. 
Sir: 

It  is  only  a  few  days  since  I  received  your  Letter  dated  at  Con- 
stantinople the  20th  of  November  last ;  the  inclosure  will  be  for- 
warded by  the  first  opportunity  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy. 

As  your  being  obliged  to  go  to  Constantinople  is  understood 
to  have  been  occasioned  by  the  omission  of  Lord  Keith  to  fur- 
nish a  suitable  ship  for  the  conveyance  of  the  Algerine  Ambassa- 
dor, I  cannot  doubt  that  Lord  Elgin  has  employed  his  influence  not 
only  to  facilitate  your  return  but  that  he  will  do  what  may  be  in 
his  power  to  prevent  any  dissatisfaction  or  misunderstanding  on 
the  part  of  the  Bey  of  Algiers,  should  the  detention  of  his  Ambas- 
sador oblige  you  in  obedience  to  your  orders  to  leave  him  at  Con- 
stantinople. 

I  shall  make  an  immediate  representation  to  this  Government 
upon  this  subject,  in  expectation  that  it  will  make  use  of  its  influ- 
ence as  well  at  Constantinople  as  at  Algiers,  to  prevent  any  em- 
barrassments that  may  be  apprehended,  should  you,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  uncertain  duration  of  the  detention  of  the  Algerine 
Ambassador,  have  left  Constantinople  without  him.  Under  such 
circumstances  it  is  my  opinion  that  you  should  obey  your  orders 
and  leave  him  behind. 

A  convention  was  concluded  between  the  U.  S.  and  France  in 
the  beginning  of  October,  and  when  ratified,  of  which  there  is  in 
my  opinion  no  doubt,  it  will  restore  the  former  friendship  and 
commercial  intercourse  between  the  two  countries. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be  with  great  respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Benjamin  Stoddart,  Secretary  of  the  Navy. 

London,  Feb.  3,  1801. 
Sir  : 

I  have  the  honour  to  forward  a  letter,  which  I  lately  received 
from  Captain  Bainbridge  for  you,  and  to  annex  for  your  informa- 
tion copies  of  a  letter  from  him  to  me  and  of  my  answer.  Having 
applied  to  this  Government  as  I  informed  Captain  Bainbridge  I 
should  do,  I  have  received  assurances  that  its  influences  should 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  38 1 


be  employed  as  well  to  facilitate,  the  departure  of  the  Frigate 
from  Constantinople,  if  she  had  not  sailed,  as  to  prevent  any 
embarrassment  with  Algiers,  should  the  Dey's  Ambassador  be  left 
behind.  Lord  Elgin  will  be  able  to  assist  us  at  Constantinople  ; 
but  I  am  not  sure  that  England  has  at  this  moment  much  influ- 
ence at  Algiers. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

W.  Bainbridge  to  R.  King. 

On  Board  the  United  States  Ship  of  War 
George  Washington  in  the  Port  of 

Constantinople,  20th  November,  1800. 
Sir: 

The  United  States  Frigate  George  Washington  under  my  com- 
mand, in  August  last  was  sent  by  the  Government  with  part  of  the 
amount  of  stipulations  due  the  Regency  of  Algiers  in  October  ; 
when  ready  to  sail  from  there  to  execute  the  orders  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States  I  was  obliged  by  an  arbitrary  demand 
from  the  Dey  of  Algiers  to  carry  his  Ambassador  and  presents  to 
the  Grand  Signor  at  Constantinople.  There  was  no  other  alter- 
native but  war  with  that  Regency. 

Inclosed  you  will  see  a  Letter  from  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy, 
by  which  you  can  see  my  present  situation. 

I  will  thank  you  for  your  advice  relative  to  a  compliance  of  the 
detention  of  the  Frigate  in  this  Port,  and  also  to  inform  me 
whether  our  Envoys  have  negotiated  a  Treaty  of  Peace  with  the 
Republic  of  France. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be  with  great  Respect  &c. 

Wm.  Bainbridge. 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  3d  Feb.,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Our  last  intelligence  puts  it  out  of  doubt  that  J  &  B  are  elected 
P  &  V.  P.  While  the  canvass  was  going  on,  each  side  made  use 
of  arguments  addressed  to  the  fears  as  well  as  to  the  understand- 
ing of  the  Public  ;  &  much  exaggeration  was  employed.  Now 
the  Event  is  fixed,  we  become  calm,  and  without  effort  convince 


382  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

ourselves  that  the  Evils  in  respect  to  the  Great  measures  of  the 
Govt,  are  not  likely  to  happen. 

A  Day  or  two  will  decide  the  Part  Prussia  takes  as  one  of  the 
northern  confederates,  and  consequently  whether  the  Amity  be- 
tween her  and  this  Country  will  be  broken  ;  in  this  case  Hanover 
falls.  The  present  condition  of  Europe  will  turn  to  our  advan- 
tage unless  we  are  blind  to  our  best  Interest. 

Our  ships  alone  will  be  employed  between  the  Belligerents,  and 
by  an  impartial  neutrality  our  claim  to  better  treatment  from  the 
Belligerents  will  be  strengthened,  and  I  am  not  without  Hopes 
that  the  injustice  practised  towards  us  by  a  Rule  common  to  fair 
and  unfair  neutrals  will  be  lessened  when  we  become,  as  we  seem 
likely  to  be,  the  only  neutral  Power. 

I  think  the  West  Indian  Courts  of  Vice  Admy.  will  be  all  abol- 
ished except  two,  one  at  Jamaica  &  another  in  one  of  the  wind- 
ward Islands.  These  it  is  proposed  to  put  upon  a  footing  which 
will  engage  able  men  to  preside  in  them.  I  am  now  attacking  the 
Halifax  Court,  whose  late  Decisions  have  been  an  outrage  to  all 

Notions  of  Justice. 

Yours  &c. 

R.  K. 


Rufus  King  to  Thomas  Truxton,  Esq. 

London,  Feb.  4,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  the  pleasure  of  sending  you  annexed  copies  of  a  Letter 
which  I  sometime  ago  received  from  the  Master  of  Lloyd's  Coffee 
House  and  of  my  answer  :  the  Piece  of  Plate  referred  to  in  that 
correspondence,  will  be  delivered  to  the  particular  care  of  the 
Master  of  the  Ship  Two  Friends  which  will  sail  in  a  day  or  two 
for  New  York. 

As  no  one  has  been  more  persuaded  of  the  importance  of  our 
little  navy,  nor  more  gratified  by  its  conduct,  in  every  instance  in 
which  its  gallantry  has  opportunity  to  show  itself,  I  beg  you  to  be 
assured  that  no  person  could  receive  greater  satisfaction  than  I 
do,  in  transmitting  to  you  this  Suffrage  in  its  favour  from  a 
nation,  familiar  with  Naval  Talents  and  capable  of  appreciating 
the  merit  it  so  honourably  applauds. 

With  great  Respect  and  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1801]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  383 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  1.     3d  Series. 

London,  Feby.  6,  1801. 
Dear  SiR  : 

According  to  the  last  French  Papers  the  Treaty  of  Peace  has 
been  signed  between  France  and  Austria.  No  mails  have  been 
received  from  Hamburgh  since  the  news  of  the  Embargo  upon  the 
Russian,  Danish  and  Swedish  ships  reached  the  continent ;  the 
exact  tenor  of  the  Northern  Confederacy  is  not  yet  known  ; 
Prussia,  it  is  understood,  has  acceded  to  it.  In  the  League  of 
1780,  the  Confederates  engaged  to  make  common  cause  against 
the  Belligerent  Power,  by  which  any  of  them  should  be  aggrieved  : 
if  the  new  Confederacy  contain  a  similar  article,  and  the  accession 
of  Prussia  have  been  unconditional,  the  Embargo  imposed  by 
England  is  a  casus  foederis  ;  Prussia  must  perform  her  engage- 
ments. England  will  apply  to  her  the  same  treatment  as  to  the 
other  confederates,  and  she  will  take  possession  of  Hanover,  and 
exclude  the  English  from  the  Elbe  and  the  Weser. 

Among  the  surmises  which  circulate  in  the  present  moment  of 
uncertainty,  one  which  is  not  the  least  curious,  nor  most  improb- 
able, shows  a  division  of  the  Cabinet  respecting  Hanover  ;  to 
preserve  which  against  the  King  of  Prussia,  it  is  said  to  have  been 
proposed  that  the  Elector  should  join  the  Northern  League  at  the 
risque  of  a  misunderstanding  with  the  King  of  Great  Britain  ! 

You  will  perceive  by  the  King's  speech,  as  well  as  by  the 
addresses  of  the  two  Houses  of  Parliament,  that  the  Nation  has 
determined  to  refer  the  Question  to  the  issue  of  the  Sword.  "  It 
must  now  be  decided,"  said  Lord  Grenville  in  the  House  of  Peers, 
"it  cannot  be  postponed  to  a  future  day  ;  we  should  not  now  have 
to  discuss  the  Question,  had  it  been  met  with  firmness  on  a 
former  occasion."  In  the  note  delivered  to  the  Envoys  of  Den- 
mark and  Sweden,  when  the  Embargo  was  imposed,  the  League 
is  considered  as  an  hostile  aggression  upon  the  rights  of  England, 
which,  it  is  declared,  she  will  repel  with  force.  If  I  can  obtain 
a  Copy  of  this  Note,  which  I  have  seen,  I  will  send  it  by  this 
opportunity. 

With  all  this  apparent  Union  and  Firmness,  the  Government  as 
well  as  the  Country  will  be  deeply  affected,  should  its  intercourse 


384  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

with  the  North  of  Europe  be  entirely  cut  off,  as  it  will  be,  if  the 
Elbe  and  the  Ports  of  Hanover  are  closed. 

If  Prussia  take  no  such  part  in  the  League,  as  shall  engage  her 
in  the  war,  such  are  the  interior  communications  by  the  canals  and 
Rivers  of  Poland,  that  the  Hemp  and  Duck  of  Russia  will  find  a 
market  at  Dantzik,  and  our  trade  to  the  Baltic,  in  consequence 
of  our  Treaty  with  Prussia,  will  be  more  secure  in  her  Ports  than 
it  would  be  in  those  of  Russia. 

Within  a  few  days  I  have  had  a  conference  with  Lord  Grenville, 
for  the  purpose  of  stating  to  him  our  dependence  upon  the  Baltic 
for  a  supply  of  Iron,  Hemp,  and  Sail  cloth  for  the  equipment  of 
our  ships,  public  as  well  as  private  ;  and  that  in  the  event  of  a 
Blockade  of  the  Sound,  we  must  claim  to  enjoy  unmolested  a 
direct  trade  between  the  United  States  and  the  Ports  of  the 
Baltic  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  these  indispensable  supplies. 
I  took  occasion  at  the  same  time  to  mention  that  our  intercourse 
with  France  and  its  Dominions  would  be  revived  in  consequence 
of  our  late  reconciliation  :  and  that  our  trade  to  the  French 
Territories,  as  in  every  other  Quarter,  would  become  more  exten- 
sive and  considerable,  should  the  Northern  Confederacy  terminate 
in  War  ;  that  we  should  expect  that  new  and  special  orders  should 
be  given  to  the  British  Cruizers  to  exercise  the  Rights  with  the 
greatest  moderation ;  and  that  our  Trade  should  meet  with  a 
treatment  corresponding  to  the  impartiality  with  which  it  has  been 
carried  on. 

Lord  Grenville,  tho'  he  gave  no  explicit  answer  to  the  claim  of 
an  uninterrupted  trade  with  the  Baltic  in  the  case  which  was  sup- 
posed, estimated  that  should  the  Blockade  take  place,  a  relaxation 
to  this  extent,  and  for  the  purpose  I  had  stated,  might  be  agreed 
to  ;  upon  this  point  he  would  confer  with  his  colleagues  should  it 
become  necessary. 

Upon  the  subject  of  our  Trade  with  France  and  other  coun- 
tries with  which  England  might  be  at  war,  he  could  assure  me  that 
they  should  be  disposed  to  treat  the  American  Flag,  which  would 
perhaps  be  the  only  Neutral  one,  with  all  the  moderation  consist- 
ent with  the  preservation  of  those  Rights,  upon  the  upholding  of 
which  her  National  safety  depended. 

I  alluded  to  the  Reform  of  the  Vice-admiralty  Courts  ;  he  told 
me  the  measure  was  in  train ;  I  complained  of  the  vexation  we 


1801]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  385 

had  experienced,  and  especially  of  late,  from  the  decisions  of  the 
Vice-admiralty  Court  at  Halifax,  and  hinted  that  should  it  not 
be  suppressed,  its  reform  might  become  more  necessary  in  conse- 
quence of  the  reform  of  the  West  India  courts.  Lord  Grenville 
admitted  the  justice  of  this  observation,  and  I  have  reason  to 
believe  that  this  court  will  be  put  upon  a  better  footing  than  it 
heretofore  has  been. 

I  represented  the  peculiar  situation  of  New  Orleans,  which, 
though  a  Spanish  Port,  is  also  the  Depository  of  the  increasing 
commerce  between  the  people  of  our  Western  States  with  those 
of  the  States  upon  the  shores  of  the  Atlantic  ;  and  after  explain- 
ing the  nature  and  importance  of  this  Trade,  and  the  pretences 
upon  which  it  has  been  interrupted,  I  proposed  that  it  should  be 
agreed  that  no  article  bona  fide  American  property,  and  destined 
for  New  Orleans,  should  be  deemed  contraband.  Lord  Grenville 
replied  that  he  would  enquire  whether  New  Orleans  was  a  place 
where  Spanish  Privateers  were  equipped  ;  adding  in  case  it  was 
not,  that  he  did  not  perceive  any  material  objection  to  the 
Proposal.  I  shall  repeat  my  applications  upon  these  points,  and 
endeavour  to  expedite  and  obtain  a  satisfactory  decision  concern- 
ing them. 

Relative  to  the  6th  article,  I  can  add  nothing  to  my  last,  except 
that  I  made  it  the  subject  of  a  very  free  and  full  discussion  with 
Lord  Grenville  ;  and  I  think  it  must  be  brought  to  a  point  in  the 
course  of  four  or  six  weeks. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  2. 

London,  Feby.  9,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  delay  which  occurred  in  the  delivery  of  the  King's  Speech, 
after  the  assembling  of  Parliament,  occasioned  a  variety  of  sus- 
picions, that  the  Cabinet  was  divided  in  respect  to  the  opinions 
to  be  inserted  in  that  Discourse.  The  expediency  of  an  immediate 
and  direct  overture  to  France  and  the  political  Emancipation  of 

VOL.  III. — 25 


386  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

the  Catholics  in  Ireland,  were  the  points  upon  which  the  King 
and  his  principal  Ministers  were  supposed  to  be  at  variance. 
Neither  the  Speech,  nor  the  debate  which  followed,  afforded  any 
satisfaction  upon  this  subject,  and  the  public  curiosity  continued 
to  be  excited  by  successive  rumours  of  a  change  in  the  Ministry, 
until  yesterday,  when  it  became  public  that  a  change  had  actually 
taken  place.  Mr.  Pitt  and  Mr.  Dundas,  Lord  Grenville  &  Lord 
Spencer  have  resigned  their  places  (upon  being  out-voted  in  the 
Cabinet,  as  is  said,  upon  the  Question  of  the  Emancipation  of 
the  Catholics,  to  which  they  were  pledged  as  a  condition  of  the 
Union  with  Ireland)  and  a  new  Ministry  under  the  Duke  of 
Portland  as  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  is  forming,  and  will  be 
composed,  as  is  understood,  exclusively  of  the  Friends  of  the 
Ministers  who  have  resigned,  not  a  single  person  of  the 
opposition  being  talked  of  as  likely  to  be  brought  into  office. 

Mr.  Addington,  the  Speaker,  succeeds  his  particular  friend 
Mr.  Pitt  as  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  with  an  engagement, 
as  is  given  out,  on  the  part  of  Mr.  Pitt  and  his  Associates  to 
support  him  in  the  House  of  Commons. 

It  is  not  positively  known  who  is  to  be  Secretary  of  State  for 
the  Foreign  and  Home  Departments  ;  so  far  as  public  opinion 
has  as  yet  manifested  itself,  it  is  by  no  means  favourable  to  the 
ability  or  discretion  of  the  new  Ministry  ;  it  is  thought  that  an 
immediate  proposal  will  be  made  to  France  to  treat  for  Peace  ;  a 
measure  that  will  certainly  be  popular. 

No  news  is  yet  received  from  Prussia  of  a  date  posterior  to  the 
information  of  the  Embargo  on  the  Russian,  Danish  and  Swedish 
ships  having  reached  Berlin.  Rumours  are  in  circulation  of 
jealousies  &  disagreements  having  already  appeared  in  the  North, 
and  there  is  daily  more  reason  to  doubt,  whether  the  maritime 
League,  in  appearance  so  formidable  to  England,  will  eventually 
be  persisted  in.  The  fluctuation  of  policy  to  which  the  principal 
Confederate  is  subject  renders  a  permanent  concert  improbable. 
The  Emperor  of  Russia  seems  to  be  entirely  won  by  Buonaparte. 
The  English  Dispatch  was  returned  unopened  having  been  cut 
through  and  through  by  the  Emperor  with  a  Dagger  ;  it  is  even 
said  that  the  Emperor  has  entered  into  a  Treaty  by  which  he 
guarantees  Egypt  to  France,  receiving  in  return  the  guaranty  of 
Malta  ;    and   the  news  just  received  from  Constantinople  adds 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  387 

credit  to  this  report  by  stating  that  the  Russian  Ambassador  had 
in  a  most  decisive  manner  required  of  the  Turkish  Government 
to  refuse  the  aid  of  the  English  army  under  General  Abercrombie, 
which  had  arrived  at  Rhodes  for  the  purpose  of  uniting  with  the 
Turks  in  an  effort  to  expel  the  French  from  Egypt. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Grenville. 

{Private.} 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Feby.  12,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

It  being  not  any  longer  doubtful  that  your  Lordship,  with  your 
principal  Colleagues,  has  retired  from  Office,  I  cannot  refrain  from 
expressing  my  sincere  concern  that  a  measure  of  so  much  conse- 
quence should  have  been  found  unavoidable  at  a  period  still  so 
momentous  and  critical.  I  am  confident  that  your  Lordship  will 
give  credit  to  the  motives  which  lead  to  the  expression  of  my 
regrets  upon  this  occasion.  I  have  too  clearly  seen  the  Danger  to 
which  the  Principles  which  are  the  Foundation  of  all  social 
Happiness  have  been  exposed,  not  to  have  conceived  the  most 
favourable  sentiments  of  the  Persons,  who  have  displayed  so  much 
firmness  and  perseverance  in  their  Defence.  Much  has  been  done? 
but  the  Labour  is  unfinished,  and  a  change  in  the  face  of  the 
adversary  may  prove  as  dangerous  in  Politics,  as  it  sometimes  has 
done  in  war  :  the  preservation  of  the  confidence  and  civil  dis- 
cipline of  a  free  people  requires  an  uninterrupted  and  steady 
Administration  ;  and  the  Duty  of  governing  is  never  more  arduous 
than  when  circumstances,  such  as  at  present  exist,  place  the  ill- 
disciplined  and  the  ignorant  in  the  power  of  the  unprincipled  and 
the  ambitious.  These  are  considerations  which  must  have  been 
carefully  weighed  before  the  Decision  was  adopted  ;  and  it  is 
only  to  be  deplored  that  the  occasion,  which  it  is  hoped  will  not 
relate  to  the  principles  of  which  Great  Britain  has  shewn  herself 
the  champion,  could  not  have  been  deferred  to  a  future  and 
more  convenient  Day. 


388  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

To  these  causes  of  public  concern,  I  must  add  what  is  peculiar 
to  myself,  the  unexpected  disappointment  of  my  hopes,  that  I 
should  have  been  able,  had  your  Lordship  remained  in  office,  to 
effect  a  satisfactory  settlement  of  those  points  of  disagreement 
the  continuance  of  which  can  promise  no  possible  advantage  to 
either,  and  may  prove  injurious  to  the  more  important  interests 
of  both  our  Countries. 

If,  as  there  is  reason  to  believe,  a  change  have  taken  place  in 
the  Executive  of  the  United  States,  tho'  the  general  course  of  our 
affairs  may  surfer  no  material  alteration,  the  new  President  will 
not  be  likely  to  go  farther  upon  the  subjects  we  have  lately  dis- 
cussed than  his  Predecessor,  to  whose  administration  he  is 
supposed  to  have  been  in  opposition.  I  mention  this  observation 
merely  to  justify  my  solicitude  upon  a  subject  which  I  know  to 
be  important,  and  which  I  now  fear,  by  remaining  unsettled,  may 
become  the  occasion  of  still  farther  misunderstandings  between 
our  respective  Countries  ;  but  I  need  your  Lordship's  excuse  for 
these  reflections,  so  distant  from  the  object  of  this  Letter,  which 
is  to  express  .  .  .  my  unfeigned  sorrow  in  reference  to  the 
great  interests  which  depend  upon  the  issue  of  the  contest,  that 
your  Lordships  and  colleagues  should  withdraw  from  Office  at  a 
time  when  the  firmness  and  vigour  of  experienced  statesmen  will 
with  difficulty  be  able  to  save  those  invaluable  Rights,  for  the 
preservation  of  which,  for  others  as  well  as  for  herself,  Great 
Britain  has  so  nobly  contended. 

With  the  most  respectful  Attachment 

and  unalterable  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Lord  Grenville  to  R.  King. 

Cleveland  Row,  Feb'y  13,  1801. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  am  extremely  sensible  to  the  kindness  of  your  letter,  &  I  beg 
you  to  be  assured  that  in  the  moment  of  quitting  the  public  sta- 
tion which  I  have  so  long  occupied,  few  things  can  be  more  grati- 
fying to  me  than  the  hope  of  preserving  the  esteem  of  those  for 
whom  I  entertain  sincere  and  merited  regard  &  attachment. 


1801]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  389 

It  would  be  a  foolish  affectation  in  me  to  disguise  the  concern 
I  feel  in  being  under  the  necessity  (according  to  the  public  prin- 
ciple on  which  I  have  ever  acted)  of  quitting  the  public  service 
in  a  moment  like  the  present,  when  the  storm  appears  to  augment, 
and  yet  when  I  am  persuaded  that  perseverance  in  our  former 
course  will  soon  bring  us  into  port.  But  there  are  duties  which 
an  honest  man  feels  too  sacred  to  be  trifled  with,  or  compromised  ; 
and  if  I  have  ever  been  able  to  render  any  service  it  has  been  by 
openness  and  plain  dealing — qualities  utterly  inconsistent  with 
the  disguise  or  dereliction  of  one's  opinions  on  great  public 
questions. 

I  do  not  agree  with  you  in  the  effect  which  this  event  is  likely 
to  produce  as  to  the  great  questions  which  are  still  afloat  in  the 
world.  Sudden  impressions  of  alarm  are  easily  received  in  such 
a  country  as  this  where  they  are  propagated  by  newspapers  and 
debates.  But  they  are  so  easily  effaced — and  it  would  be  to  know 
very  little  of  the  present  composition  of  the  two  Houses  of  Par- 
liament to  believe  with  the  vulgar  in  the  present  moment,  that 
there  will  be  any  want  of  great  abilities  to  be  called  forth  by  great 
occasions. 

Be  assured  that  in  all  situations  I  shall  always  be  anxious  to 
deserve  &  to  retain  your  esteem  and  friendship. 

Ever,  my  Dear  Sir,  most  truly  and  sincerely 
Your  obedient  Humble  Servt. 

Grenville. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII. 

Troup  to  King — Counting  presidential  Vote — Burr's  Election  probable — 
Hamilton  profoundly  chagrined — Democrats  Disappointed — King  to  Sec- 
retary of  State — New  Ministers  not  yet  in  Office — Ratification  of  French  Con- 
vention will  benefit  our  Commerce — To  Ld.  Grenville  relative  to  Taxes  levied 
in  Scotland  against  Major  Lenox — They  should  not  be  levied — Pickering  to 
King — Gives  Action  of  the  Senate  on  the  Convention  with  France — Elec- 
tion of  President  still  in  Doubt — Suggests  that  Adams  may  be  nominated 
for  Governor  of  Massachusetts  with  Gerry — Hopes  there  is  enough  good 
Sense  to  reject  both — Lawranceto  King — No  Election  yet — King  to  Secre- 
tary of  State — The  King's  Illness  causes  Delay  in  forming  new  Cabinet — 
Northern  Confederacy  still  unsettled — England  will  resist  it — Negotiations 
between  Great  Britain  and  United  States  at  a  Stand — Vice-Admiralty 
Courts  to  be  re-formed — King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Capture  and  Con- 
demnation of  S.  Girard's  Ship,  on  Ground  he  is  a  Frenchman — Denial  of  this 
— He  is  an  American  Citizen — Services  in  Yellow  Fever  in  1793,  in  Philadel- 
phia— King  to  Secretary  of  State — The  King's  Sickness  continues — No 
Business— King  to  Troup — Condition  of  Affairs  in  Europe — Lord  St.  Vin- 
cent promises  to  repress  the  West  India  Privateers — King  to  Lord 
Hawkesbury — Summary  of  Matters  in  Dispute — To  T.  Erskine — Impress- 
ment of  Seamen — Suggests  that  neither  Party  shall  impress  on  the  high 
Seas — Erskine  to  King — Says  he  has  sent  his  Letter  to  Lord  St.  Vincent — 
King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Captures  of  American  Vessels  bound  to  an 
Enemy's  Colony  not  according  to  the  Law  of  Nations — Cause  great  Com- 
plaints— Demands  a  precise  Instruction  to  Officers  in  West  India  Seas  to 
put  an  End  to  this — King  to  G.  Rose — Arbitrary  and  oppressive  Conduct 
of  Revenue  Officers  in  the  Port  of  London. 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  12  Feby.,  1801. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.    .    .     Yesterday  was  the  day  appointed  for  counting  the  votes 

for  Prest.  and  Vice  Prest.     We  have  yet  no  information   of  the 

result.     The  general  opinion  here  is  that  Burr  will  ultimately  be 

chosen.     Upon  the  first  ballot  it  is  thought  Jefferson  will  have  all 

the  democratical  States,  but  as  they  are  not  sufficient  to  elect  him, 

390 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  39 1 

the  conjecture  is  that  a  second  ballot  will  be  taken  and  that  in 
this  event  some  of  the  Demos,  will  come  over  to  vote  for  Burr,  to 
prevent  the  election  falling  through.  So  that  although  it  be  un- 
certain who  will  be  the  man,  yet  there  is  considerable  probability 
that  Burr  will  be  successful. 

Hamilton  is  profoundly  chagrined  with  this  prospect !  He  has 
taken  infinite  pains  to  defeat  Burr's  election,  but  he  believes  in 
vain.  So  he  has  to  procure  the  complete  adoption  of  the  French 
convention,  which  is  at  length  ratified,  excepting  the  2d  article, 
and  with  a  limitation  of  8  years  to  the  whole  instrument.  .  .  . 
Hamilton  declared  that  his  influence  with  the  federal  party  was 
wholly  gone — that  he  could  be  no  longer  useful.  He  has  a  hor- 
rible opinion  of  Burr's  principles  and  views,  and  thinks  that  his 
administration  must  fasten  itself  on  the  least  respectable  men 
belonging  to  both  parties.  He  cannot  bring  himself  to  believe 
that  the  respectable  men  of  either  party  will  connect  themselves 
with  Burr.  .  .  .  All  the  leading  demos,  are  cut  to  the  quick 
with  the  idea  of  Burr's  being  President,  with  a  very  few  exceptions. 
It  is  said  that  Madison  has  written  to  a  member  of  Congress  a 
strong  and  angry  letter  on  this  subject.  The  Clintonians  here 
execrate  Burr  as  President.     .     .     . 

The  newspapers  will  show  you  a  letter  written  by  myself  and 
others  to  Gov.  Jay,  and  his  answer.  He  is  a  decided  advocate  for 
Jefferson  in  preference  to  Burr.     .     .     . 

God  bless  you. 

R.  T. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  4. 

London,  Feby  17,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Enclosed  I  send  you  a  copy  which  I  have  just  received  of  the 
Treaty  of  Peace  between  France  and  the  Emperor,  concluded  at 
Luneville  on  the  9th  instant. 

We  do  not  learn  that  the  last  mail  has  brought  precise  informa- 
tion of  the  decision  of  Prussia  ;  the  opinion  gains  strength  that 
England  will  have  to  cope  with  all  the  maritime  Powers  leagued 
against  her. 


392  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

The  new  Ministers  are  not  yet  in  Office  ;  as  such  of  them  as  are 
members  of  the  House  of  Commons  must  be  re-elected,  some  time 
will  be  necessary  for  this  object.  Mr.  Pitt  yesterday  made  his 
Loan  for  28  millions  for  which  he  gives  in  three  per  cents.,  when 
at  something  under  5  per  cent.,  a  little  more  than  49  millions  ;  the 
terms  are  deemed  favorable  to  Government.  Perhaps  the  bold- 
ness with  which  the  Bank  lends  its  Paper  to  individuals,  enabled 
the  Government  with  less  difficulty  to  borrow  it. 

The  loss  of  the  Danish  and  Swedish  Flags  has  increased  the 
demand  for  ours  ;  if  our  ships  which  will  soon  arrive  with  Flour 
bring  accounts  of  the  ratification  of  the  Convention  and  restora- 
tion of  commercial  intercourse  with  France  they  will  obtain  im- 
mediate and  profitable  freights. 


T.  Pickering  to  R.  King. 

Salem,  Feb.  17,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  a  letter  to  my  son  written  since  my  arrival  at  this  place,  I 
mentioned  the  French  Convention  pending  before  the  Senate  ; 
but  was  obliged  (not  to  miss  a  conveyance)  to  quit  the  subject 
abruptly.  A  committee  of  the  Senate  reported  a  resolution,  for 
advising  the  P.  to  ratify  the  Convention,  on  condition  that  the 
2d.  &  3d.  articles  be  expunged,  the  6th  modified  by  a  provision 
that  it  should  not  operate  against  any  existing  treaties,  and  that  a 
new  article  be  added,  limiting  the  duration  of  the  convention  to 
eight  years.  S.  S.  Mason  moved  to  strike  out  all  the  conditions  ; 
and  they  were  stricken  out,  except  the  last,  limiting  the  duration  ! 
Then  a  question  was  taken  on  the  remnant  of  the  resolution, 
when  the  yeas  &  nays  were  as  in  the  inclosed  paper — 16  for  the 
treaty,  14  against  it  ;  of  course  it  is  rejected.  You  will  be  sur- 
prised at  some  of  the  federal  yeas  :  But  I  have  correct  information, 
that  a  certain  influence  was  exerted  from  a  quarter  from  which 
heretofore  better  things  would  have  been  expected.  I  have  no 
doubt  that  S.  D.  [exter]  was  the  agent  to  exercise  this  influence, 
at  the  desire  of  the  P.  that  his  mighty  mission  might  not  end  in  a 
nullity.  It  is  suggested  however,  as  a  thing  to  be  expected  from 
the  Democrats,  that  a  reconsideration  may  be  proposed,  in  order 
to  ratify  with  conditions,  rather  than  lose  the  entire  treaty. 


l8oi]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  393 

Mr.  Marshall  has  been  nominated,  and  I  presume  will  be  ap- 
pointed Chief  Justice.  Mr.  D.  will  then  be  "  promoted  "  to  the 
station  originally  in  view  when  he  accepted  the  War  Office. 

The  choice  of  President  remains  in  doubt.  Mr.  Jefferson  has  8 
states  ;  and  if  one  federal  member  of  Maryland  join  the  4  antis 
of  that  state,  he  will  be  elected.  But  I  have  it  from  Theo.  Par- 
sons at  Boston,  that  Pierrepont  Edwards  has  written  to  Judge 
Reeve  at  Litchfield  (who  married  Mr.  Burr's  sister) — assuring 
him,  that  the  New  York  Electors  had  given  one  more  vote  for 
Mr.  B.  than  Mr.  J. — It  seems,  however,  incredible,  that  a  fact  of 
this  kind,  if  it  existed,  should  so  long  have  been  kept  secret. 

Some  gentlemen  at  Boston  apprehend  that  Mr.  Adams  will  be 
set  up  with  Mr.  Gerry,  for  Governor  &  Lieutenant  governor  of 
Massachusetts  ;  and  if  chosen,  no  one  doubts  his  readiness  to 
accept  the  office.  But  if  there  be  not  good  sense  enough  in 
Massachusetts  to  reject  both  those  gentlemen,  the  people  ought 
to  suffer  everything  which  folly  and  prejudice  can  produce.  But 
I  feel  a  confidence  that  their  present  excellent  governor  will  be 
reelected. 

I  remain  Dear  Sir 

Yr.  faithful  friend  &  servt. 

Timothy  Pickering. 


J.  Lawrance  to  R.   King. 

New  York,  Feb.  18,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  choice  of  President,  by  a  Letter  I  have  this  Day  received 
from  Washington  of  the  13th  Instant,  was  not  then  made.  My 
Correspondent  mentions  that  the  House  of  Representatives  had 
that  day  ballotted  again,  without  being  able  to  change  a  Vote, 
both  parties  seem'd  obstinate  and  it  was  not  easy  to  see  who  would 
first  give  way.  Conjecture  was  busy  on  both  sides  and  on  both 
there  was  nothing  but  conjecture.  More  than  thirty  ballots  had 
been  taken  without  the  least  variation. 

It  is  singular  our  Wise  Men  who  made  provision  for  the  Choice, 
in  case  of  two  having  a  Majority,  did  not  suppose  that  no  choice 
might  be  made  and  provide  for  that  Event,  but  it  seems  this  was 


394  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

overlooked  ;  however  I  cannot  believe  we  shall  be  without  a 
Chief  Magistrate,  after  the  3d  of  March,  notwithstanding  the  ob- 
stinacy which  prevailed  on  the  13th  Instant. 

In  this  State  a  Majority  of  the  Council  of  appointments  being 
antifederal,  many  new  appointments,  it  is  said,  are  in  contempla- 
tion but  at  present  they  have  stumbled  at  the  Threshold.  The 
Governor  has  claimed  the  right  exclusively  to  nominate,  and  has 
exercised  it  in  the  Case  of  a  Sheriff  for  the  County  of  Dutchess. 
Eight  nominations  by  him  for  that  office  have  been  rejected.  If 
he  persists  which  I  believe  from  what  I  have  heard,  he  will,  he 
will  probably  disappoint  the  Expectants.  Heretofore  the  Gov- 
ernor applied  to  the  Legislature  suggesting  the  propriety  of  a 
declaratory  Act ;  but  none  passed.  It  was  left  to  his  own  Inter- 
pretation, and  he  has  given  it,  what  I  always  supposed  to  be  the 
proper  one.  The  Agitations  that  those  questions  occasion  will 
shortly  all  go  off,  and  we  shall  settle  down  in  our  usual  tranquil- 
lity. The  Commonwealth  must  be  saved.  Whether  we  shall  see 
you  or  not  the  present  year,  or  the  next  I  suppose  is  still  doubt- 
ful— but  whenever  you  come  you  will  meet  with  a  cordial  re- 
ception. 

Yours  very  sincerely, 

John  Lawrance. 


In  answer  to  a  letter  from  Rufus  King  to  Lord  Grenville, 
February  7,  1801,  respecting  certain  taxes  of  inheritance 
assessed  against  Major  Lenox  in  Scotland,  agent  for  seamen 
in  London,  asking  a  remission  of  the  taxes,  Lord  Grenville 
wrote  a  note  on  the  17th  inst.  which  is  thus  answered  by 
Rufus  King: 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Feby.  19,  1801. 

Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Lord  Grenville  and  has 
the  honour  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  his  note  of  the  17th, 
communicating  the  opinion  of  the  Law  Officers  of  the  Crown, 
that  Major  Lenox,  not  being  entitled  to  any  of  the  privileges  of  a 
foreign  Minister,  is  liable  to  pay  taxes  to  the  King  during  his 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  395 

residence  in  this  country.  Without  inquiring  into  the  precise 
provisions  of  the  Laws  regulating  the  levy  of  the  King's  Taxes, 
according  to  which  it  is  presumed  the  Law  Officers  have  formed 
this  opinion,  Mr.  King  takes  the  liberty  to  state  to  Lord  Grenville 
that  he  is  not  able  to  distinguish  the  principle  upon  which  Foreign 
Ministers  are  by  public  Law  exempted  from  the  payment  of  Taxes 
in  the  country  of  their  residence,  from  that  upon  which  he  has 
claimed  a  like  exemption  in  favour  of  Major  Lenox.  Neither  re- 
sides abroad  from  private  or  personal  considerations  ;  both  are  in 
the  public  service  of  their  Country,  to  promote  the  convenient  and 
uninterrupted  performance  of  which,  each  by  the  comity  of  nations 
has  a  claim  to  be  freed  from  those  demands  which  apply  to  the 
people  of  the  Country  where  they  reside.  It  was  upon  this  ground 
that  the  American  Commissioners  under  the  Treaty  of  Amity  and 
Commerce  have  been  exempted  from  Taxes. 

The  service  performed  by  Major  Lenox  for  a  time  was  dis- 
charged by  the  American  Minister,  but  on  account  of  its  detail 
and  importance  was  assigned  to  a  particular  Agent,  who  may  be 
considered  as  attached  to  and  making  a  part  of  the  American 
Legation,  and  entitled  to  the  exemption  which  it  may  justly  claim. 

Any  new  difficulties  to  which  this  particular  service  may  be  ex- 
posed would  enhance  the  unpleasant  sentiments,  with  which  from 
its  nature  it  is  unavoidably  attended  ;  and  Mr.  King  cannot  but 
flatter  himself,  that,  upon  a  revision  of  the  subject,  orders  will  be 
given  to  discharge  Major  Lenox  from  the  demand  for  personal 
Taxes,  which  has  been  made  upon  him. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  5. 

London.  Feby.  25,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Lord  St.  Vincent  has  been  appointed  First  Lord  of  the  Admi- 
ralty and  Lord  Hawkesbury  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign 
Department  in  lieu  of  Lord  Spencer  and  Lord  Grenville.  Mr. 
Pitt  and  Mr.  Dundas  remain  in  office  tho'  they  have  sent  in  their 
resignations,  and  their  successors  have  been  named  but  not  form- 


396  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 

ally  appointed.  In  this  singular  and  disjointed  condition  of 
the  Cabinet,  the  King  was  taken  ill,  and  considerable  mystery- 
prevailed  for  a  day  or  two  in  respect  to  the  nature  of  his  illness. 
It  is  now  avowed  that  he  has  been  attacked  by  a  violent  Fever 
and  Delirium.  Dr.  Willis  attends  him  and  the  Bulletin  of  this 
morning  says  :  "  His  Majesty  still  has  fever  but  none  of  the  symp- 
toms are  worse."  No  overture  has  yet  been  made  to  France. 
The  King  is  not  able  to  attend  to  business,  and  the  situation  of 
the  Country  is  critical  and  full  of  difficulty. 

The  last  accounts  from  Germany  still  lessen  the  probability  that 
Prussia  will  be  able  to  avoid  taking  a  part  in  support  of  the  North- 
ern Confederacy ;  the  convention  between  Russia  and  Sweden 
has  been  published  by  the  latter,  and  in  its  principles  and  pro- 
visions seems  the  renewal  of  the  League  of  1780.  At  present  I 
perceive  no  change  in  the  opinion  that  England  must  and  will 
resist  the  claims  of  the  Confederacy.  Sweden  has  retaliated  by 
an  Embargo  upon  the  few  English  ships  in  her  Ports  ;  but  this 
has  not  yet  been  done  by  Denmark  or  by  Prussia.  The  advance 
of  the  French  army  into  the  territory  of  Naples  must  soon  be  fol- 
lowed by  measures  to  exclude  the  English  from  every  part  of 
Italy  ;  and  Portugal  must  in  her  turn  submit. 

The  progress  which  had  been  made  in  our  negotiation  with  this 
Government  was  such  as  must  have  brought  it  to  a  speedy  con- 
clusion, had  not  a  change  taken  place  in  the  Department  of  For- 
eign affairs  ;  that  the  result  would  in  the  main  have  been  satis- 
factory is  more  than  I  am  authorised  to  say,  tho'  I  flatter  myself 
with  the  hope  that  it  would  be  so.  Lord  Hawkesbury  assures  me 
that  he  will  give  to  the  several  subjects  which  have  been  pretty 
fully  discussed,  an  early  and  impartial  consideration  ;  and  I  am 
in  hopes  that  Lord  St.  Vincent  will  likewise  be  inclined  to  attend 
to  our  re-iterated  remonstrances  against  the  impressment  of  our 
Seamen  and  the  Vexations  of  our  Trade. 

The  Court  of  Halifax  is  to  be  immediately  reformed  ;  hereafter 
there  are  to  be  but  three  Vice-Admiralty  Courts  in  America,  two 
in  the  West  Indies  and  the  third  in  Halifax.  The  judges  will  be 
taken  from  the  Corps  of  Civilians,  and  as  they  are  to  receive  ade- 
quate and  permanent  salaries  will  not,  like  their  Predecessors, 
depend  upon  their  condemnations  for  support. 

I  yesterday  received  the  duplicate  of  your  No.  9.     Such  is  the 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  397 

situation  of  the  negotiation  that  we  cannot  with  propriety  relin- 
quish the  attempt  to  adjust  the  disagreement  respecting  the  6th 
Article  upon  the  principle  of  paying  a  sum  in  lieu  of  what  might 
be  awarded  under  its  Provisions.     .     .     . 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Rt.  Honble.  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Gr.  Cumberland  Place,  March  6,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

The  Brigantine  Sally,  John  Dorton,  Master,  owned  by  Stephen 
Girard,  a  citizen  and  merchant  of  the  United  States,  and  laden 
with  a  valuable  cargo,  on  her  voyage  from  Batavia  to  Philadelphia, 
has  been  taken  by  his  Majesty's  frigate  Cleopatra,  Israel  Pellew 
Commander,  and  condemned  by  the  Vice-Admiralty  Court  of 
Halifax,  because  the  owner  was  born  in  France  tho'  he  has  been 
naturalized  and  resident  in  America  for  more  than  twenty  years. 

Mr.  Girard  has  not  only  been  long  and  permanently  settled  in 
Philadelphia  where  he  has  carried  on  business  as  a  Merchant  or 
Trader  with  different  Countries,  but  has  given  the  most  indis- 
putable Proofs  of  the  ties  which  unite  him  to  the  place  of  his 
Residence.  In  1793  when  the  Epidemic  Fever  desolated  Phila- 
delphia which  was  deserted  by  almost  every  person,  who  had  the 
means  of  leaving  it,  Mr.  Girard,  with  a  few  others,  who  might 
also  have  withdrawn,  remained  and  under  the  denomination  of  a 
Board  of  Health  administered  succour  and  comfort  to  their  suf- 
fering fellow  citizens  at  the  peril  of  their  own  lives. 

Not  only  the  cause  assigned  for  the  condemnation  of  this  vessel 
and  cargo  is  unjust  and  vexatious,  but  the  circumstances  & 
manner  in  which  the  property  was  disposed  of  were  illegal  and 
purposely  calculated  to  impair  the  remedy  which  the  claimant 
might  expect  by  carrying  his  case  before  the  Tribunal  of  Appeals. 
The  papers  which  accompany  this  Note  are  in  every  respect 
so  full  that  it  would  be  superfluous  to  add  any  Reflections  for  the 
purpose  of  demonstrating  the  injustice  and  oppression  of  this 
transaction.  The  case  has  been  sent  to  me  with  express  orders 
from  the  President  of  the  United  States  to  lay  the  same  before 
his  Majesty's  Government  and  to  call  upon  its  justice  to  take  such 


398  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

measures  as  shall  afford  immediate  and  complete  redress  to  the 
claimant. 

The  ordinary  course  of  appeals  is  attended  with  so  much  delay- 
that  I  cannot  but  flatter  myself  in  a  case  so  considerable  in 
property  and  so  strong  in  right,  that  an  immediate  examination  of 
this  claim  will  be  made  and  the  full  value  of  the  property,  with 
exemplary  damages,  will  be  decreed  to  the  Claimants. 

Mr.  Girard  has  sent  a  special  agent  to  this  country  for  the  sole 
purpose  of  recovering  this  property.  I  am  instructed  to  give  him 
all  the  aid  in  my  Power,  and  he  will  remain  here  until  the  case  be 
decided. 

With  great  Consideration  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  6. 

London,  Mar.  7,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Owing  to  the  continuance  of  the  King's  illness,  the  change  of 
the  Ministry  is  still  incomplete,  and  very  little  business,  beyond 
the  ordinary  routine  is  transacted.  It  is  supposed  to  be  on  this 
account  that  no  measure  has  been  adopted  in  consequence  of  the 
Prussian  Note,  avowing  the  King's  accession  to  the  Northern 
Confederacy,  the  principles  of  which  according  to  every  appear- 
ance are  to  be  disputed  at  the  mouth  of  the  Cannon. 

The  Squadron  from  Brest  has  entered  the  Mediterranean,  and 
is  without  doubt  destined  for  Egypt,  where  the  English  Expedi- 
tion under  Lord  Keith  and  General  Abercrombie  will  have 
previously  arrived.  Much  and  perhaps  equal  concern  exists  at 
Paris  and  London  respecting  these  Expeditions,  as  the  issue  of 
them  must  have  considerable  influence  upon  the  commencement, 
as  well  as  the  conclusion  of  the  Negotiations  for  Peace. 

I  am  assured  that  our  affairs  shall  be  taken  into  consideration 
as  soon  as  the  new  Cabinet  is  settled.  I  am  not  without  hopes 
that  they  may  be  satisfactorily  adjusted. 

!545,  x34°5-  IJ70-  644-  354-  985>  36°-  I2°°-  r47-  7°9-  8S3.  1125 
consent  644.  312.    721.  881.   153.  1495.   1412.  1226.  29.  321.  lieu 


l8oi]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  399 

1410.    240.    253.    554.    10.    2935.    985.    769.    637.  19.  641.  379.  107. 
779.  369.  16  Decision  815.  95.  352.* 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  March  7,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  malady  of  the  King  still  continues  tho'  it  is  confidently 
said  he  is  convalescent  ;  the  suspension  of  the  Executive  Govern- 
ment is  attended  with  much  inconvenience,  both  in  respect  to 
foreign  and  domestic  concerns.  According  to  present  appearances 
the  question  of  the  armed  neutrality  must  be  disputed  by  the 
mouth  of  the  Cannon — Prussia  has  acceded  and  avows  her 
Decision  to  support  the  Confederation.  Owing  to  the  extraordi- 
nary situation  of  the  Eng.  Executive,  no  ostensible  measure  has 
been  adopted  in  consequence  of  this  avowal. 

Egypt  is  the  present  object  of  attention      a  small  squadron  from 

Brest  has  reached  the  Mediterranean,  and  is  bound  without  doubt 

to  relieve  the  french  in  Egypt.     Lord   Keith   with  Genl.  Aber- 

crombie  will  probably  be  at  or  near  the  mouths  of  the  Nile,  when 

the  french  squadron   arrives — Considerable   anxiety,  if  I  be  not 

mistaken,  exists  as  well  at  Paris  as  at  London,  respecting  Aber- 

crombie's    expedition,    the    fate   of   which   may   have    a    Great 

influence  upon  the  conclusion,  as  well  as  the  commencement  of 

negotiations  of  Peace — We  know  nothing  decisive  respecting  the 

Election  of  President. 

Yrs.  very  truly 

R.  K. 

In  a  memorandum  bookf  of  Mr.  King's  are  found  the 
following  extracts,  the  resignation  of  the  Pitt  Ministry  in 
February  having  previously  been  noted. 

*  Not  deciphered. 

f  This  memorandum,  which  was  kept  from  December,  1796,  to  March,  1803, 

is  full  of  interesting  material,  which  should  have  been  given  at  the  proper 

dates.     But  in  some  way  it  was  not  placed  with  the  other  papers,  and  was  not 

used  in  preparing  the  previous  pages.     It  is  necessary  therefore  to  print  the 

arlier  portion  in  an  Appendix,  III.,  to  this  volume. — Ed. 


400  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Mar.  7,  1S01. 
Lord  Landsdown,  in  conversation  respecting  the  Northern  Con- 
federacy,   told    me    this    morning   that    when  this  question  was 
brought  forward  during  the   Amer.  war,  Russia  was  very  urgent 
for  its  adoption  and  made  great  assurances,  thro'  the 

Ambassador,  of  what  she  would  do  that  wd.  be  acceptable  to  G. 
Br.  in  case  it  was  asreed  to.     That  Fox,  who  was  in  the  Cabinet 

O  7 

at  this  period,  was  in  its  favor,  that  he,  Ld  Landsdown  was  agt. 
it,  as  he  found  the  promise  of  Russian  equivalents  meant  nothing 
and  she  wd.  not  give  an  army  to  assist  Engd.  (as  to  America 
probably)  and  that  upon  the  final  question  in  the  Cabinet,  he  car- 
ried his  opinion  agt.  Mr.  Fox  by  only  one  voice  !  !  ! 

March  8. 

Dined  at  Mr.  Erskine's  with  Fox,  Sheridan,  St.  John  and  other 
members  of  the  opposition.  The  conversation  after  dinner  turned 
chiefly  upon  the  King's  illness,  the  new  Ministry,  &c.  Otto  was 
present  and  the  subject  of  Peace  occurred.  It  was  confidently 
said  the  Prince  of  Wales  was  for  immediate  overtures  to  France, 
and  had  he  been  declared  Regent,  that  Fox  would  have  been  sent 
Ambassador  to  Paris. 

Touching  upon  the  Northern  League  Fox  intimated  very  dis- 
tinctly that  the  principle  must  be  given  up  by  Engd.  Sheridan 
said  it  wd.  affect  the  Navigation  Act.  Fox  treated  the  objection 
with  scorn  and  sd.,  the  Navigation  Act  had  been  and  must  be  de- 
parted from;  that  Engl,  skill  &  capital  wd.  secure  to  them  a  proper 
portion  of  navigation  and  breed  seamen  for  their  navy. 

Adverting  to  Abercrombie's  Expedition  agt.  Egypt  &  the  pos- 
sibility of  its  failure,  some  one  said  France  wd.  keep  Egypt  at  the 
peace  ;  suppose  she  does,  said  Mr.  Fox,  why  shd.  we  object  ?  evi- 
dently consenting  to  her  doing  so. 

Mar.  8th. 

Lord  St.  Vincent  yesterday  sent  me  a  message  assuring  me 
that  he  would  take  measures  to  repress  the  irregular  and 
vexatious  conduct  of  the  West  India  Privateers,  &  that  the  new 
courts  should  be  established  without  Delay.     .     .     . 

Ld.  St.  Vincent  sent  for  Sr.  Wm.  Scott  and  told  him  that  he 
gave  to  him  the  nomination  of  the  new  Judges,  that  the  office 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  4OI 

shd.  be  suitably   provided   for,  and   if   the    Judges  were  found 
incompetent,  Doctor's  Commons  must  be  responsible. 

In  a  note  from  Mr.  King  of  March  10,  1801,  to  Lord 
Hawkesbury,  he  calls  his  attention  to  the  matters  in  dispute 
between  their  two  Governments,  specifying  them  and  re- 
ferring to  his  correspondence  with  Lord  Grenville  and  to 
points  which  are  presented,  as  additions  to  his  letter,  restat- 
ing them  and  urging  upon  the  British  Government  a  speedy 
settlement  of  them. 

R.  King  to  Hon.  Thomas  Erskine,  Esq. 

{Confidential.) 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  March  11,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

As  I  know  your  disposition  to  do  every  thing  in  your  power  to 
strengthen  and  prolong  the  good  will  and  friendship  between  our 
respective  countries,  I  take  the  liberty  to  mention  to  you  one  of 
the  causes  which,  as  much  as  any  other,  has  occasioned  great 
irritation  and  been  for  a  long  time  the  subject  of  ineffectual  com- 
plaint. 

I  refer  to  the  practice  of  the  British  Navy  to  impress  the  Sea- 
men of  American  Vessels  on  the  high  seas,  as  well  as  within  the 
British  Ports.  We  have  repeatedly  offered  to  agree  in  any 
practicable  way  which  could  be  devised  upon  measures  to  dis- 
criminate American  from  British  Seamen  :  our  vessels  are  navi- 
gated with  as  large  a  proportion  of  native  seamen,  as  the  Ships 
of  Great  Britain  or  of  any  other  country  ;  and  we  might  with  equal 
right  impress  the  seamen  of  British  vessels  as  Great  Britain  does 
those  of  ours. 

If  the  practice  proceed  it  must  become  common  ;  as  there  will 
be  no  other  means  left  either  to  compensate  the  disadvan- 
tages of  our  Trade,  or  to  convince  your  Government  of  the  incon- 
venience and  injustice  of  the  practice. 

I  have  lately  by  order  of  my  Government  proposed  to  you  an 
article,  to  be  added  to  our  Treaty  of  Amity,  &c,  by  which  it  shall 
be   agreed   "  that  neither   Party   shall  upon  the  high  seas  impress 

VOL.  III. — 26 


402  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Seamen  out  of  the  Vessels  of  the  other."  This  proposition  is 
now  before  your  Government ;  the  opinion  of  Lord  St.  Vincent 
will  probably  be  decisive  in  respect  to  its  adoption,  and  from  the 
just  value  which  I  have  reason  to  believe  his  Lordship  places  upon 
your  opinions,  I  am,  I  confess,  very  desirous  to  engage  your 
influence  in  our  favour.  I  need  not  say,  that  were  I  not  con- 
vinced of  the  justice  of  the  measure,  I  should  not  think  of  recom- 
mending it  to  your  Protection. 

The  pretence  upon  which  our  Seamen  are  taken  is  that  the 
King  has  a  right  to  the  services  of  his  Subjects,  and  all  who  speak 
English  are,  in  the  practice  of  the  Navy,  considered  so,  unless 
they  can  prove  the  contrary,  a  fact  not  easily  established  by  a 
seaman,  on  account  of  the  habitual  carelessness  of  his  character, 
even  before  an  impartial  Tribunal,  and  one  that  will  be  rarely 
proved  to  the  satisfaction  of  a  British  Naval  officer  desirous  of 
keeping  his  ship  well  manned. 

Admitting  that  within  the  territorial  Limits  of  a  Nation,  meas- 
ures may  be  employed  to  detain  such  of  its  Seamen  as  may  be 
found  in  the  service  of  another  Nation,  yet  upon  the  open  seas, 
where  the  rights  of  all  are  equal  and  independent,  these  measures 
cannot  be  lawfully  adopted  :  the  practice  derives  no  support  from 
a  state  of  war,  more  than  from  one  of  Peace,  and  may,  and  has 
been,  pursued  in  Peace  as  well  as  in  war.  Leaving  the  question 
for  the  present  open  within  the  respective  Territories  of  the  two 
Countries,  we  desire  to  obtain  a  just  security  for  our  Merchant 
Ships  against  the  loss  of  their  Crews,  which  are  taken  away  in  the 
open  seas  ;  and  thereby  the  property  as  well  as  the  lives  of  the 
officers  and  such  of  the  Seamen  as  are  not  taken  exposed  to  the 
perils  of  the  Ocean. 

With  great  truth  and  attachment  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


Thos.  Erskine  to  R.  King. 

Sergrants'  Inn,  March  12,  1801. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  very  much  obliged  by  the  confidence  which  you  repose  in 
me,  &  for  the  justice  which  you  do  to  my  regard  ioi your  coun- 
try whose  interests  I  cannot  be  indifferent  to  without  forgetting 


1801]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  403 

my  duty  to  my  own.  We  ought  to  "  grapple  America  to  us  with 
Hooks  of  Steel,"  and  not  provoke  a  war  by  the  same  contempti- 
ble narrow  policy  which  originally  provoked  the  revolution.  I 
sent  your  letter  to  Lord  St.  Vincent  without  copying  it,  &  I  there- 
fore hope  you  have  preserved  a  copy  of  it.  I  told  him  that  thro' 
the  correspondence  with  my  son  in  America  I  had  the  means  of 
knowing  the  delicate  situation  in  which  we  stood  towards  your 
great  &  growing  country,  &  I  called  upon  him  in  the  most  earn- 
est manner  to  attend  to  the  important  subject  of  your  letter.  I 
have  no  doubt  that  Lord  St.  Vincent  will,  as  a  man  of  good  sense 
{which  I  know  He  is)  attend  deeply  to  it.  It  is  high  time  he 
should,  as  by  a  letter  I  have  from  Yarmouth  roads  from  a  captain 
of  one  of  the  ships  of  the  line,  I  find  they  are  getting  under  weigh, 
or  in  other  words  that  the  signal  in  made  for  universal  war.  In 
these  days  it  is  dangerous  to  prophecy,  but  I  may  have  leave  to 
rejoice  that  part  of  my  property  is  safe  from  the  violence  &  in- 
justice of  my  own  country  ;  having  a  perfect  confidence  in  the 
integrity  of  yours  towards  a  stranger  whose  life  has  been  spent  in 
wishes  to  unite  the  world  in  Harmony  &  peace. 
I  ever  am,  Dear  Sir,  your  most 

faithful  &  obliged  Humble  servt. 

T.  Erskine. 

Endorsed  in  R.  King's  handwriting  : 

Answer  to  mine  respecting  his  interference  with  Ld.  St.  Vincent 
respec.  the  proposed  Article  that  neither  party  wd.  impress  seamen 
out  of  the  vessels  of  the  other  on  the  high  seas. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  13  March,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

The  decree  of  the  Vice-Admiralty  Court  of  Nassau,  a  copy  of 
which  is  annexed — concerning  the  cargo  of  an  American  vessel 
going  from  the  United  States  to  a  port  in  the  Spanish  Colonies 
on  the  ground  that  the  articles  of  transient  Merchandize  compos- 
ing the  same,  tho'  bona  fide  neutral  Property,  were  of  the  growth 
of  Spain,  having  been  sanctioned,  and  the  Principle  extended  by 
the  Prize  Courts  of  the  other  British  Islands,  and  particularly  by 


404  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

the  court  of  Jamaica,  has  been  sufficient  authority  to  the  Com- 
manders of  the  Ships  of  war  and  privateers  cruizing  in  those  seas, 
to  fall  upon  and  capture  all  American  vessels  bound  to  an 
Enemy's  Colony,  and  having  on  board  any  article  of  the  growth 
or  manufacture  of  a  Nation  at  war  with  Great  Britain. 

These  captures  which  are  vindicated  by  what  is  termed  the 
"  Belligerent's  "  right  to  distress  his  Enemy  by  interrupting  the 
supplies  which  his  habits  or  convenience  may  require,  have  pro- 
duced the  strongest  and  most  serious  complaints  among  the 
American  Merchants,  who  have  seen  with  indignation  a  reason 
assigned  for  the  capture  and  confiscation  of  their  property,  which 
is  totally  disregarded  in  the  open  and  protected  Trade  carried  on 
between  the  British  and  Spanish  Colonies,  by  British  and  Span- 
ish subjects,  in  the  very  articles,  the  supply  of  which  by  neutral 
Merchants  is  interrupted. 

The  Law  of  Nations  acknowledged  in  the  Treaty  of  Amity, 
Commerce  and  Navigation  between  the  United  States  and  Great 
Britain,  allows  the  Goods  of  an  Enemy  to  be  lawful  Prize,  and 
pronounces  those  of  a  friend  to  be  free. 

While  the  United  States  take  no  measures  to  abridge  the 
Rights  of  Great  Britain  as  a  Belligerent,  they  are  bound  to  resist 
with  firmness  every  attempt  to  extend  them  to  the  equally  incon- 
testible  Rights  of  Nations,  which  find  their  interest  and  duty  in 
living  in  peace  with  the  rest  of  the  world. 

As  long  as  the  ancient  Law  of  Nations  is  observed,  which  pro- 
tects the  innocent  Merchandize  of  Neutrals  while  it  abandons  to 
the  Belligerent  the  goods  of  his  Enemy,  a  plain  Rule  exists  and 
may  be  appealed  to  to  decide  the  Rights  of  peace  and  of  war  : 
the  Belligerent  has  no  better  authority  to  curtail  the  Rights  of 
the  Neutrals,  than  the  Neutral  has  to  do  the  like  in  regard  to  the 
Rights  of  the  Belligerent  ;  and  it  is  only  by  an  adherence  to  the 
ancient  code  and  the  rejection  of  modern  glosses,  that  fixed  and 
precise  Rules  can  be  found,  defining  the  Rights  and  regulating 
the  Duties  of  independent  States. 

This  subject  is  of  such  importance,  and  the  essential  Interests 
of  the  United  States,  whose  Policy  is  that  of  peace,  are  so  deeply 
affected  by  the  Doctrines  which  during  this  present  war  have 
been  set  up,  in  order  to  enlarge  the  rights  of  Belligerents,  at  the 
expense  of  those  of  neutrals,  that  I  shall  without  loss  of  time  sub- 


l8oi]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  405 

mit  to    your    Lordship's   consideration    such    farther   reflections 
respecting  the  same  as  its  great  importance  appears  to  demand. 

In  the  mean  time  as  the  Decisions  referred  to  cannot  from  the 
unavoidable  delay  which  attends  the  presentation  of  appeals,  be 
speedily  reversed  and  as  the  effect  of  those  decrees  will  continue 
to  be  the  unjust  and  ruinous  interruption  of  the  American  Com- 
merce in  the  West  India  Seas,  it  is  my  duty  to  require,  that  pre- 
cise instructions  shall  without  delay  be  dispatched  to  the  proper 
officers  in  the  West  Indies  and  Nova  Scotia,  to  correct  the  abuses 
which  have  arisen  out  of  these  illegal  decrees,  and  put  an  end  to 
the  depredations,  which  are  wasting  the  lawful  commerce  of  a 
peaceable  and  friendly  nation. 

With  great  Consideration  &  Respect 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  George  Rose,  Esq. 

Gt.  Cumberland  Place,  Mar.  16,  1801. 
Sir: 

Though  it  would  be  more  regular  that  I  should  make  the  appli- 
cation, through  Lord  Hawkesbury's  office,  I  save  time,  which  is  of 
importance,  by  addressing  myself  immediately  to  you.  To  the 
Facts  stated  in  the  enclosed  Letter  from  Dickson  &  Co.  I  think  it 
proper  to  add,  that  according  to  my  information,  the  conduct  of 
the  Revenue  Officers  of  the  Port  of  London  has  become  so  arbi- 
trary and  oppressive,  always  under  the  plea  of  Duty,  that  with 
the  most  scrupulous  attention  to  the  Laws,  the  American  Ships 
employed  in  the  Tobacco  Trade  are  not  only  exposed  to  great 
detention,  and  embarrassment,  but  frequently  obliged  to  pay  con- 
siderable sums  of  money  to  ransom  themselves  from  suits  upon 
false  and  frivolous  Pretexts,  with  which  they  are  menaced.  In 
the  instance  of  the  Mehitable,  Follansbee  Master,  an  offer  is  at 
length  made  to  release  the  10  Hogsheads  of  Tobacco,  which  had 
been  seized,  and  to  discharge  the  Ship,  provided  the  seizing 
officer  be  paid  20.  Guineas.  I  know  that  you  will  disapprove  and 
take  pleasure  in  correcting  these  abusive  irregularities,  and  there- 
fore make  no  apology  for  bringing  these  cases  before  you,  or 
requesting  your  interference  to  do  us  justice. 

With  perfect  respect  &c. 

R.  King. 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 

Cabot  to  King — Jefferson's  Inaugural  gives  Federalists  much  Hope — Bad  Omen 
if  King  leaves  his  Post — Persuaded  England  will  triumph — King  to  South- 
gate — Expects  a  Successor — Affectionate  Expressions — Cabot  to  King — 
Jefferson's  Speech  more  liked  by  Federalists  than  Democrats — Troup  to 
King — Similar  Opinion — Cabinet  and  other  Appointments — Generally 
believed  he  was  not  to  be  suspended — New  York  Appointments — Rights 
claimed  by  Gov.  Clinton — Lord  St.  Vincent  to  T.  Erskine — Expressing 
high  Respect  for  Mr.  King — Hard  to  draw  a  Line  on  Impressments — King 
to  Secretary  of  State — New  Ministry — Sir  Hyde  Parker  gone  to  Baltic  with 
a  Fleet — Debate  in  Parliament  on  free  Bottoms  make  free  Goods — 
Neutral  Rights — Overtures  of  Peace — Affairs  of  United  States  delayed  but 
pushed — Cession  of  Louisiana  and  Floridas  to  France — Fears  injurious 
Effects  upon  the  Union — Gen.  Collot's  proposed  Voyage  to  United  States — 
Importance  of  having  an  able  Minister  at  Paris — King  to  Lawrance — Had 
not  the  Ministers  gone  out,  believes  he  would  have  been  able  to  settle 
United  States  Affairs  satisfactorily — Cabot  to  King — England  will  triumph 
— King  to  remain — No  war  with  England — Some  Changes  of  Officers 
made — King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Vices  of  the  Vice- Admiralty  Courts  in 
West  Indies  and  Nova  Scotia,  and  Reforms  suggested — Asks  when  the 
Delays  in  taking  up  the  Negotiations  with  the  United  States  will  cease — 
King  to  Addington — Relative  to  Commission  under  6th  Article — Asks  for 
a  Decision — To  Secretary  of  State — English  Ships  excluded  from  the  Con- 
tinent— France  supplied  by  Neutrals  from  England— Peace  yet  uncertain 
— If  Egypt  evacuated,  Peace  more  probable. 

R.  King  to  Robert  Southgate,  Esq. 

London,  Mar.  16,  1801. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  am  extremely  obliged  to  you  for  your  kind  letter  of  the  2d  of 

January.     The  information  it  gives  me  is  such  as  for  a  long  time  I 

have  been  solicitous  to  receive.     At  present  I  have  only  time  to 

say  that  my  continuance  here  is  uncertain.     When  I  left  America 

we  expected  that  the  war  would  be  at  an  end  in  two  or  three 

years  ;  and  that  an  opportunity  would  then  present  itself  for  a 

406 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  407 


revision  of  the  Treaty  concluded  by  Mr.  Jay,  which  would  be  ad- 
vantageous to  the  U.  S.  and  favourable  to  my  reputation.  The 
war  still  goes  on  and  the  change  of  men  in  America  will  probably 
be  followed  by  correspondent  changes  in  Europe  :  I  therefore 
expect  a  successor.  In  this  event  I  shall  pass  the  winter  upon 
the  continent  and  return  home  in  the  summer  of  1802.  Mr.  Pick- 
ering, who  is  my  present  Secretary,  being  destined  to  the  profes- 
sion of  the  Law,  will  embark  for  America  in  six  or  eight  weeks  ; 
I  shall  not  engage  any  one  in  his  place,  which  you  may  consider 
as  belonging  to  your  Son,  should  I  continue  here. 

I  will  only  add,  that  I  am  under  no  stronger  obligation  to  any 
one  than  to  you,  and  that  I  shall  find  peculiar  satisfaction,  should 
the  opportunity  occur,  in  repaying  to  the  Son,  those  tokens  of 
kindness  and  Protection,  which  I  myself  received  from  his  father. 
To  the  expression  of  my  affectionate  regards  for  my  Sister,  and 
the  other  branches  of  the  family,  I  must  add  the  assurances  of  the 
sincerest  attachment  with  which  I  remain  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Geo.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 


March  20,  1801. 


My  dear  Friend  : 

All  our  newspapers  have  copied  the  inauguration  speech  of  Mr. 
Jefferson,  you  cannot  fail  therefore  of  having  seen  it  before  this 
will  reach  you.  It  is  so  conciliatory  that  much  hope  is  derived 
from  it  by  the  Federalists  ;  it  certainly  contains  some  foolish  & 
some  pernicious  as  well  as  many  good  ideas.  On  the  whole  how- 
ever its  temper  entitles  it  to  respect  &  whatever  may  be  the 
sincerity  of  its  professions,  good  policy  requires  that  they  be 
trusted  till  contradicted  by  actions. 

Much  anxiety  has  been  felt  lest  the  new  administration  shou'd 
involve  us  in  a  quarrel  with  G.  B.,  to  which  we  had  made  some 
approaches  by  the  strange  negligence  of  their  Predecessor.  I 
have  some  reason  however  to  believe  that  accommodation  is  as 
likely  to  be  made  with  the  present  as  former  President.  We  shall 
think  it  a  bad  omen  if  you  quit  your  station  ;  we  know  of  no  one 
who  can  so  well  serve  us  in  it. 


408  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Our  accounts  from  your  side  of  the  water  lead  us  to  expect  the 
most  vigorous  maritime  war  between  England  &  all  the  Fools  of 
Europe  in  the  service  of  France.  I  pray  God  their  Fleets  may 
meet  in  nearly  equal  numbers  &  that  England  may  reap  new 
laurels.  She  alone  defends  &  has  defended  those  neutrals  who 
are  combining  against  her  ;  &  if  they  succeed  in  their  project 
the  liberty  of  the  Sea  will  be  like  the  liberty  of  the  land,  the 
liberty  of  serving  France.  If  the  English  are  not  disordered  by 
scarcity  they  have  nothing  to  fear  ;  they  are  an  overmatch  for  all 
the  Naval  forces  that  can  be  brought  against  them  &  the  Con- 
federacy of  their  Enemies  like  all  Confederacies  will  dissolve  & 
be  disgraced.  At  any  rate  I  am  persuaded  England  will  triumph 
on  the  Sea  if  she  perseveres  ;  &  you  will  see  Russians,  Danes  & 
Swedes  vanquished  if  their  Ships  put  out.  I  am  mortified  to  see  the 
Neutral  nations  made  the  Dupes  of  France  under  the  shallow 
pretence  of  aiding  Neutral  Commerce.  Nothing  is  more  certain 
than  that  Neutral  Commerce  is  much  more  lucrative  under  the 
operation  of  the  old  maritime  Code  as  com?nonly  enforced,  than  it 
wou'd  be  with  the  reformations  which  are  professed  to  be  aimed 
at.  We  discuss  these  subjects  lately  &  think  more  justly  than  we 
used  :  we  see  now  that  Neutrals  wou'd  lose  &  Belligerents  alone 
wou'd  save  anything  by  the  maxim  of  "  Free  Ships  make  Free 
Goods."  The  Neutrals  will  gain  most  when  the  Belligerent  prop- 
erty is  most  exposed  :  the  true  interest  of  Neutrals  requires  only 
that  their  own  bona  fide  property  be  protected,  &  all  the  regula- 
tions &  stipulations  between  them  &  Belligerents  shou'd  refer  to 
the  ascertainment  of  that  property  &  its  protection. 

Yours  affy. 
G.  C. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

March  20,  1801. 

My  dear  Friend  : 

We  are  all  tranquil  as  they  say  at  Paris  after  a  Revolution.  Mr. 
Jefferson's  conciliatory  speech  is  better  liked  by  our  party  than 
his  own  :  how  he  will  act  remains  to  be  proved,  but  hopes  are 
entertained  now  which  cou'd  not  have  existed  if  his  speech  had 
partaken  of  the  temper  of  his  party.  A  large  majority  are  better 
satisfied  than  they  wou'd  have  been  with  a  Reelection. 


1801]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  409 

John  Bull  is  finally  disencumbered  of  all  his  Allies — he  is  not 
the  less  likely  to  have  a  glorious  campaign  &  I  pray  God  he  may  ! 
— a  good  beating  will  serve  the  northern  powers  &  prevent  them 
in  future  from  being  the  Dupes  of  France  ...  I  sometimes 
feel  angry  that  the  English  are  so  haughty  &  oppressive  to 
Neutrals  but  I  think  if  the  power  of  France  were  to  predominate 
on  the  Sea  there  woud  be  an  end  of  Neutral  Rights  &  we  should 
look  to  the  departed  power  of  England  with  inexpressible  regret. 

G.  C. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  23d  March,  1801. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Jefferson's  inaugural  speech  is  particularly  worthy  of 
notice.  It  has  displeased  the  most  violent  of  the  party  attached 
to  him.  The  federalists,  in  general,  are  taken  with  it  and  hope 
better  things  than  they  were  led  to  expect  from  him.  Madison 
is  Secretary  of  State.  .  .  .  Some  say  that  Gallatin  and  Smith 
are  ridding  themselves  of  commercial  concerns  and  other  business 
in  order  to  enter  upon  their  offices  a  short  time  hence  in  a  freer 
and  purer  state.     .     .     . 

The  chancellor  (Livingston)  was  offered  the  Secretaryship  of 
State,  but  he  preferred  being  resident  minister  at  Paris,  and  he 
has  been  appointed  accordingly.  DeWitt  Clinton  and  Spencer 
of  Columbia  county,  with  another  democrat  associated  with 
them  compose  a  majority  in  the  Council  of  Appointment,  and  a 
violent  disagreement  now  exists  between  them  and  the  Governor. 
They  claim  a  concurrent  right  with  him  to  nominate  ;  he  insists 
on  his  exclusive  right.  In  this  state  of  things  the  council  sepa- 
rated. The  Governor  applied  to  the  Legislature  for  an  explana- 
tory law.  They  have  refused  to  interfere.  All  appointments  are 
therefore  at  a  stand.  The  members  of  the  Council  published  a 
manifesto  justifying  their  conduct.     .     .     . 

It  is  not,  however,  thought  that  Jefferson  will  carry  his  displac- 
ing system  to  an  extreme.  It  seems  to  be  generally  believed  by 
our  friends  from  Washington  that  you  are  not  to  be  suspended  ; 
and  nothing  to  contradict  this  idea  has  yet  transpired. 


4IO  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Gov.  Jay  has  resolved,  if  possible,  to  make  a  compromise  about 
the  office  of  Chancellor  in  order  to  get  Lawrance  on  the  Supreme 
Court  Bench  in  the  room  of  Benson,  appointed  to  be  judge  of  the 
circuit  composed  of  this  State,  Connecticut  and  Vermont  under 
the  late  Judicial  Bill.  For  this  purpose  his  present  intention  is 
to  nominate  Chief  Justice  Lansing  to  the  office  of  Chancellor. 
He  is  the  safest  man  of  all  that  party,  and  they  will  be  puzzled 
to  negative  him,  or  to  express  any  dislike  to  his  appointment.  .  .  . 

We  are  now  in  a  state  of  profound  quiet  ;  and  I  see  no  cause 

for  expecting  a  different   state   of  things.     If  Jefferson  conducts 

with  moderation  and  good  sense,  he  will  be  supported  by  all  the 

enlightened  federalists.     .     .     . 

Yours, 

R.  T. 


Thos.  Erskine  to  R.  King. 

Serjeants'  Inn,  March  23,  1801. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Lord  St.  Vincent  immediately  answered  my  letter,  but  as  I  was 
at  Derby  I  did  not  get  it  until  my  return.  It  would  give  me  the 
greatest  possible  pleasure  to  be  useful  at  any  time  in  promoting  a 
good  understanding  between  America  &  this  country,  &  in  shew- 
ing the  regard  with  which  I  always  am 

Most  sincerely  yours, 

T.  Erskine. 

Enclosed  in  the  above  is  Lord  St.  Vincent's  answer 
dated  : 

Admiralty,  13th  March,  1801. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

My  first  object  on  coming  to  this  Board,  was  to  restore  the 
Courts  of  Admiralty  in  the  Colonies  with  a  view  to  check  the 
vexations  which  the  American  Commerce  has  been  subject  to, 
and  Sir  Wm.  Scott,  who  is  to  name  to  the  new  appointments,  has 
it  now  under  consideration. 

Mr.  King  is  probably  not  aware  of  the  abuses  which  are  com- 
mitted by  the   American  Consuls   in  France,   Spain,  &  Portugal, 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  41 1 

from  the  generality  of  whom  every  Englishman,  knowing  him  to 
be  such,  may  be  made  an  American  for  a  dollar.  I  have  known 
more  than  one  American  Master  carry  off  Soldiers  in  their  Regi- 
mentals, arms  &  accoutrements  from  the  Garrison  of  Gibraltar, 
and  there  cannot  be  a  doubt  but  the  American  Trade  is  navi- 
gated by  a  majority  of  British  Subjects,  &  a  considerable  one 
too.  Thus  it  becomes  a  very  difficult  point  to  draw  the  line,  and 
I  have  always  considered  this  as  the  greatest  evil  arising  from  the 
separation. 

I  entertain  a  very  high  respect  for  the  public  &  private  char- 
acter of  Mr.  King,  and  I  prize  your  friendship  still  higher,  and 
you  may  rest  assured  that  whenever  Lork  Hawkesbury  makes  to 
me  a  communication  on  this  subject,  I  will  do  everything  con- 
sistent with  my  duty  to  the  Public  to  cement  the  union  between 
the  two  countries. 

Yours  most  truly, 

St.  Vincent. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  7. 

London,  March  26,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Though  the  King  has  recovered,  he  does  not  yet  hold  a  court, 
nor  is  it  understood  that  he  attends  to  any  but  the  most  pressing 
and  indispensable  business.  The  chief  of  the  new  Ministers  are 
in  their  places,  and  all  of  them  will  be  so  in  the  course  of  a  few 
days.  The  Duke  of  Portland  remains  in  the  same  Department  ; 
Mr.  Addington,  the  late  Speaker,  is  at  the  head  of  the  Treasury  ; 
Lord  Saint  Vincent  of  the  Admiralty  ;  Lord  Hawkesbury  of  the 
Foreign  Affairs  ;  Lord  Chatham  of  the  Ordinance  ;  Lord  Hoburt 
is  Secretary  of  War,  Lord  Hardwick,  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland, 
and  Lord  Eldon  will  be  the  Chancellor.  With  the  exception  of 
Lord  St.  Vincent,  the  new  administration  is  taken  from  among 
the  political  friends  of  the  old  one,  which  in  return  has  pledged 
itself  to  support  its  successors. 

It  is  more  than  a  fortnight  since  the  Fleet,  under  Sir  Hyde 
Parker,  sailed  from  Yarmouth  Roads  for  the  Baltic  for  the  pur- 


412  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 


pose  of  disputing  the  Question  of  Armed  Neutrality.  No  news 
has  been  received  from  it  since  its  arrival  in  the  Cattegat.  If  I 
am  not  mistaken,  the  expectation  here  is  that  Denmark  and  Rus- 
sia will  be  detached  from  the  League  ;  tho'  after  what  has  been 
done  it  is  a  little  difficult  to  conceive  upon  what  reputable  pre- 
text these  Powers  will  withdraw.  England  thinks  that  Denmark 
and  Prussia  will  decline  the  issue  of  force,  and  from  all  I  hear, 
it  is  quite  likely  that  both  of  them  believe  that  England  will 
not,  as  she  certainly  has  resolved  to  do,  carry  matters  to  that 
extremity. 

In  the  Debates  which  have  lately  taken  place  in  both  Houses 
of  Parliament  the  Doctrine  that  Free  bottoms  make  free  Goods 
became  a  topic  for  discussion.  The  Ministerial  side  of  the  two 
Houses  treated  the  question  in  a  high  and  positive  tone,  denying 
the  Right  claimed  by  Neutrals  in  this  respect,  and  declaring  its 
importance  to  be  such  that  if  from  notions  of  expediency  it 
should  be  given  up,  the  chief  means  upon  which  the  safety  of  the 
Nation  depends  would  thereby  be  relinquished.  The  opposition 
likewise  denied  the  Right,  but  argued  that  its  importance  was 
overrated,  and  that  instead  of  forcing  the  question  to  the  decision 
which  was  now  appealed  to,  it  should  have  been  got  rid  of  in  like 
manner  as  it  was  in  the  year  1780.  In  the  course  of  this  debate, 
which  I  attended  in  both  Houses,  it  was  broadly  denied  by  Lord 
Grenville  and  Mr.  Pitt,  tho'  little  pains  were  taken  to  support 
their  opinion  either  by  argument  or  authorities,  1st.  that  Free  bot- 
toms make  free  goods  ;  2nd.  that  neutrals  may  trade  with  block- 
aded Ports  ;  3rd.  that  naval  stores  are  innocent  merchandize  ; 
4th.  that  convoys  protect  from  search  ;  5th.  that  neutrals  may 
carry  on  during  war  a  trade  from  which  they  were  excluded  in 
peace. 

These  questions  which  were  treated  with  great  positiveness  on 
one  side  were  ill-understood  and  feebly  discussed  on  the  other. 
I  was  curious  to  hear  what  could  be  offered  to  disprove  the  last 
point,  the  denial  of  which  has  always  appeared  to  me  to  be  a 
limitation  of  the  Rights  of  Neutrals,  inconsistent  with  the  equality 
and  mutual  dependence  of  Nations,  and  I  was  not  disappointed 
in  finding  that  it  has  no  better  or  other  support  than  the  mere 
convenience  and  advantage,  which  it  is  calculated  to  procure  to 
the  Belligerent. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  413 

From  the  Levant  no  such  intelligence  has  been  received  as  en- 
ables any  one  to  do  more  than  conjecture  the  result  of  the  Expe- 
dition to  dislodge  the  French  from  Egypt.  Little  reliance  seems 
to  be  placed  upon  the  efficacious  cooperation  of  the  Turks  ;  and 
should  Gautheau's  squadron  have  reached  Egypt  before  the 
squadron  of  Lord  Keith,  the  principal  part  of  which  wintered  in 
the  Bay  of  Macis  on  the  coast  of  Caramania,  the  French  army- 
will  have  received  such  supplies  of  every  sort,  as  will  put  them  on 
an  equality  with  the  forces  under  General  Abercromby,  and  tend 
much  to  lessen  his  best  chance  of  success,  that  of  inducing  the 
French  army,  anxious  to  return  to  France,  to  consent  to  a  Con- 
vention for  the  evacuation  of  Egypt.  This,  should  it  happen, 
would  remove  a  thorny  point  in  the  way  of  peace,  overtures  for 
which  are  understood  to  have  been  already  made  by  the  new 
Ministry.  The  old  question  respecting  the  boundaries  of  France, 
and  the  form  and  stability  of  its  Government  will  be  kept  entirely 
out  of  sight.  The  terms  may  be  difficult  to  adjust,  but  not  in- 
surmountably so,  unless  France  should  insist  upon  the  recognition 
of  the  maritime  Rules,  laid  down  in  the  Northern  League,  to 
which  England  will  not  consent  so  long  as  her  present  naval 
superiority  shall  continue. 

In  respect  to  our  own  affairs,  I  can  do  no  more  than  repeat 
what  I  am  weary  of  having  repeated  to  me,  that  the  King's  illness, 
the  change  of  Ministry,  and  the  attention  to  more  urgent  and 
indispensable  business  have,  against  the  inclination  of  the  Govern- 
ment, hitherto  prevented  them  from  coming  to  a  decision  con- 
cerning them.  I  have  been  very  lately  assured  that  the  business 
shall  be  soon  taken  up  ;  and  as  the  several  points  have  been  fully 
discussed,  a  little  time  only  will  be  requisite  to  decide  them.  I 
have  not  thought  it  necessary  to  send  you  copies  of  my  corre- 
spondence ;  preferring  to  submit  it  entire  together  with  the  result, 
whatever  it  may  be,  of  the  negotiation.  It  will  then  be  seen  that 
I  have  not  been  insensible  to  the  disadvantages  arising  from  the 
delay,  which  as  far  as  prudence  and  decorum  would  permit,  I  have 
endeavoured  to  prevent. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


414  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  8. 

London,  March  29,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  confirmation  of  the  rumours  of  the  day,  Carnot's  answer  to 
Bailleul,  published  during  the  exile  of  the  former,  states  the  pro- 
ject which  had  been  discussed  in  the  Directory,  to  obtain  from 
Spain  a  cession  of  Louisiana  and  the  Floridas.  A  reference  to 
that  performance,  copies  of  which  I  at  the  time  sent  to  the  De- 
partment of  State,  will  shew  the  manner  in  which  it  was  expected 
to  obtain  the  consent  of  Spain,  as  well  as  afford  a  clue  to  the 
views  of  France  in  taking  this  establishment.  What  was  then 
meditated,  has  in  all  probability  since  been  executed  :  the  cession 
of  Tuscany  to  the  infant  Duke  of  Parma  by  the  Treaty  between 
France  and  Austria,  forms  a  more  compact  and  valuable  com- 
pensation to  this  Branch  of  the  House  of  Spain  than  was  formerly 
thought  of,  and  adds  very  great  credit  to  the  opinion,  which  at 
this  time  prevails  both  at  Paris  and  London,  that  Spain  has  in 
return  actually  ceded  Louisiana  and  the  Floridas  to  France. 
There  is  reason  to  know  that  it  is  the  opinion  of  certain  influential 
persons  in  France,  that  nature  has  marked  a  line  of  separation 
between  the  People  of  the  United  States  living  upon  the  two  sides 
of  the  Range  of  Mountains  which  divide  that  Territory.  Without 
discussing  the  considerations  which  are  suggested  in  support  of 
this  opinion,  or  the  false  consequences,  as  I  wish  to  believe  them, 
deduced  from  it,  I  am  apprehensive  that  this  cession  is  intended 
to  have,  and  may  actually  produce  effects  injurious  to  the  Union 
and  consequent  happiness  of  the  People  of  the  United  States. 
Louisiana  and  the  Floridas  may  be  given  to  the  French  Emigrants, 
as  England  once  thought  of  giving  them  to  the  American  Tories  ; 
or  they  may  constitute  the  reward  of  some  of  the  Armies  which 
can  be  spared  at  the  end  of  the  war. 

I  hear  that  General  Collot,  who  was  a  few  years  ago  in  America, 
and  a  Traveller  in  the  Western  Country,  and  who  for  some  time 
has  been  in  disgrace  and  confinement  in  France,  has  been  lately 
set  at  liberty,  and  that  he,  with  a  considerable  number  of  dis- 
affected and  exiled  Englishmen,  Scotchmen  and  Irishmen,  is  soon 
to  proceed   from   France  to  the   United  States.     Whether  their 


1801]  LIFE   AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  415 


voyage  has  any  relation  to  the  cession  of  Louisiana  is  matter  of 
mere  conjecture  ;  but  having  heard  of  it  in  connection  with  that 
Project,  I  think  it  proper  to  mention  it  to  you. 

What  effect  a  plain  and  judicious  representation  upon  this  sub- 
ject made  to  the  French  Government  by  a  Minister  of  talents  and 
entitled  to  confidence,  would  be  likely  to  have,  is  quite  beyond 
any  means  of  judging  which  I  possess  ;  but  on  this  account,  as 
well  as  others  of  importance,  it  is  a  subject  of  regret  that  we  have 
not  such  a  character  at  this  time  at  Paris. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  John  Lawrance. 

London,  March  29,  1801. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  just  received  your  kind  letter  of  the  18th  ulto.  We  had 
however  before  heard  of  the  issue  of  the  Election,  which  I  hope, 
and  on  the  whole  believe,  will  not  produce  all  the  mischiefs  which 
have  been  predicted  or  feared.  I  shall  not  have  the  pleasure  of 
seeing  you  this  year.  We  hope  that  Peace  must  and  will  be  con- 
cluded this  summer  ;  in  this  event  I  shall  pass  the  Autumn  & 
Winter  upon  the  Continent.  My  Successor  will  probably  arrive 
by  Midsummer,  and  in  this  event  I  hope  to  return  home  early  in 
the  spring  of  next  year.     .     .     . 

The  new  ministers  are  at  last  in  office  ;  the  King  has  recovered, 
and  overtures,  it  is  believed,  have  already  been  made  to  France  on 
the  subject  of  Peace.  The  old  Topics,  respecting  the  restoration 
of  the  Monarchy,  &  the  prudence  of  waiting  for  the  evidence  of 
Facts,  that  the  new  Govt,  is  able  to  maintain  the  relations  of 
Peace  &c.  &c.  will  be  omitted,  and  the  negotiation  will  turn  upon 
mere  terms.  If  France  insist  upon  England's  acceding  to  the 
Doctrine  that  free  bottoms  make  free  goods,  the  negotiation  will 
soon  be  at  an  end,  as  upon  this  point  there  is  at  present  no  prob- 
ability that  Eng.  will  yield.  Had  not  the  old  ministers  gone  out 
I  have  reason  to  believe  (this  in  confidence)  that  I  should  soon 
have  been  able  to  settle  our  affairs  in  a  pretty  satisfactory  way. 
The  subject  is  new  to  their  successors,  and  tho'  what  has  been 
done  will  not,   I  hope,   prove  useless,  more   time  will  now  be 


41 6  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

necessary  than  could  be  wished,  before  the  matter  can  be  decided. 
The  West  India  &  Halifax  Courts  are  reforming.  They  will  be 
put  on  a  good  footing.  Orders  go  by  the  next  Packet  to  repress 
depredations  upon  our  trade  to  the  Spanish  Colonies. 

The  new  President  has  much  in  his  power,  and  if  he  conduct  as 
to  public  measures  with  moderation  and  wisdom,  he  will  save  our 
Govt,  and  Country  from  the  Reproaches  which  the  invidious  and 
obstinate  Partizans  of  a  different  Scheme  are  waiting  to  cast 
upon  both. 

Very  truly  your  faithful  friend 

R.  K. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

March  30,  1801. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  reed,  your  letter  of  the  19th  January  which  gives  me 
some  satisfaction  as  it  strengthens  my  hope  that  the  British  Em- 
pire will  yield  nothing  to  the  New  Confederacy  acting  under  the 
auspices  of  France.  I  am  perfectly  satisfied  if  Britain  is  true  to 
herself  she  will  yet  triumph  over  all  her  Enemies  :  she  has 
abundant  means  &  if  she  uses  them  with  tolerable  skill,  they  will 
be  successful.  The  miserable  states  of  Sweden  &  Denmark  can 
do  but  little  to  injure  England  while  they  may  be  made  to  suffer 
extremely,  &  the  petulance  &  capricious  temper  of  the  Russian 
Emperor  renders  his  perseverance  after  one  campaign  very  improb- 
able. .  .  .  Probably  you  will  learn  from  others  before  this 
reaches  you  that  Humphries,  Smith  &  Murray  are  to  be  recalled. 
I  have  not  been  informed  who  are  to  replace  the  two  latter  but 
the  immaculate  Citizen  Chs.  Pinckney  is  to  go  to  Madrid.  Mr. 
Ellsworth  or  Mr.  Murray  is  to  consummate  with  Bonaparte  the  un- 
finished Treaty  which  is  carried  out  by  Dawson  of  Congress. 
"  Mr.  King  is  to  remain  at  the  British  Court  ;  "  "  the  President  is 
sincerely  determined  to  preserve  the  peace  with  the  British  Em- 
pire." You  may  be  assured  that  it  will  give  great  pleasure  to  all 
the  good  men  in  our  Country  to  find  that  you  are  to  continue  ;  I 
beg  therefore  you  may  rightly  appreciate  all  the  circumstances 
which  bind  you  a  little  longer  to  the  service  in  which  you  are 
engaged.     I  have  long  considered  a  war  with  England  at  this 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  417 

period  as  an  event  the  most  fatal  to  the  United  States  that  cou'd 
happen — even  if  it  shou'd  prove  a  successful  one  to  us — perhaps 
the  worse  for  being  successful  ;  such  a  war  wou'd  overthrow  com- 
pletely all  good  principles  &  all  good  men  in  the  United  States;  it 
wou'd  bring  in  the  reign  of  that  diabolical  spirit  which  has  proved 
such  a  curse  to  France  until  it  was  laid  by  the  sword  of  Bonaparte. 
Jefferson  &  Madison  don't  intend  war  but  their  policy  always 
has  been  &  probably  will  be  to  keep  up  the  highest  animosity  that 
can  be  borne  without  open  war.  If  such  is  their  system  we  shall 
come  to  a  rupture  if  the  affairs  of  England  by  any  new  turn  of 
things  shou'd  make  a  war  desirable  to  the  Ruling  Party  there.  I  have 
so  often  expressed  anxieties  on  this  point  that  you  have  been  led 
to  think  I  magnified  the  danger  of  a  War  with  England.  I  know 
full  well  the  force  of  some  of  those  reasons  which  must  operate  in 
the  mind  of  a  British  Statesman  against  provoking  new  Enemies  ; 
but  I  know  also  that  those  who  govern  here  may  render  a  quarrel 
unavoidable  by  overrating  that  force,  &  I  repeat  that  the  evils  re- 
sulting from  such  an  event  are  of  a  kind  that  ought  to  be  dreaded 
much  more  than  the  mere  pecuniary  losses  we  shou'd  suffer, 
immense  as  they  wou'd  be.  I  understand  from  Stoddert  that  our 
public  vessels  are  not  to  resist  the  search  of  the  British  when 
attempted  of  those  under  their  convoy.  Stoddert  is  out  of  office 
but  I  am  not  informed  who  succeeds  him.  Dexter  will  leave  the 
Treasury  in  a  fortnight  from  this  time  &  Gallatin  will  preside  over 
our  Money  affairs.  I  know  not  what  his  principles  are  but  if  he 
connects  his  views  of  fame  &  of  interest  with  the  maintenance  of 
public  credit  he  will  be  able  to  secure  more  of  both  than  in  any 
different  course.  A  few  changes  are  made  already  of  officers  at  a 
distance  from  the  seat  of  Govt.  &  more  are  expected. 

Yours  faithfully  &  afftly, 

G.  C. 


R.  King  to  Rt.  Hon.   Lord  Hawkesburv. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  April  1,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

The  enclosed  affidavit  made  before  the  Governor  of  Bermuda 

will  make  your  Lordship  acquainted  with  the  very  reprehensible 

conduct  of  the  Vice-Admiralty  Court  of  that  Colony,  in  refusing 

VOL.  III. — 27 


41 8  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

its  assistance  to  give  effect  to  the  Court  of  Appeals  in  Prize 
causes,  and  by  reason  whereof,  the  definitive  Sentence  of  Resti- 
tution pronounced  by  this  Tribunal,  has,  in  the  cases  referred  to, 
become  altogether  illusory. 

It  having  been  already  determined  by  his  Majesty's  Govern- 
ment to  reform  the  Vice- Admiralty  Courts  in  the  West  Indies  and 
Nova  Scotia,  I  make  this  representation  not  only  for  the  purpose 
of  procuring  immediate  redress  in  the  cases  to  which  it  relates, 
but  with  the  hope  that  it  will  moreover  be  considered  as  an  addi- 
tional and  urgent  reason  for  the  speedy  completion  of  the  Reform 
which  has  been  decided  upon. 

As  this  measure  is  still  under  consideration,  I  take  the  liberty 
to  observe  that  however  sufficient  the  reasons  may  have  been  in 
the  early  institution  of  Prize  courts,  when  the  Territory  subject  to 
their  respective  jurisdiction  was  more  confined  than  at  present,  to 
justify  the  variety  and  succession  of  Process,  issuing  from  the 
Court  of  Appeal  to  enforce  a  definitive  sentence  of  Restitution, 
the  application  of  this  practice  to  the  distant  Colonies  of  Europe, 
especially  since  the  very  great  extension  of  Navigation  in  modern 
Times,  is  found  to  be  productive  of  such  great  and  unreasonable 
delay,  expence  and  uncertainty,  as  in  all  cases  to  impair,  and  in 
many  to  defeat  the  remedy,  it  is  the  duty  of  this  Tribunal  to  offer. 

These  disadvantages  are  most  frequently  and  seriously  experi- 
enced in  the  process  against  the  Commanders  and  owners  of 
Privateers  which  have  been  commissioned  in  the  Colonies. 
According  to  the  understood  and  necessary  course  of  Proceeding, 
after  a  decree  of  restitution  is  pronounced  by  the  Court  of  Ap- 
peals, as  in  the  cases  enumerated  in  the  inclosed  affidavit,  Process 
issues  and  is  sent  to  the  Colonies  against  the  Commanders  of  the 
Privateers,  who  to  avoid  the  same  in  most  cases,  abscond  from 
the  Ports  where  their  Privateers  were  commissioned.  Upon  a 
return  to  this  effect,  the  Court  of  Appeals  are  moved  to  issue  a 
second  process  against  the  bondsmen  of  the  Commanders  of  the 
Privateers  if  their  names  can  be  ascertained.  This  is  likewise 
sent  to  the  Colonies,  and  frequently  disobeyed  by  the  Bondsmen, 
if  they  do  not  chance  likewise  to  have  absconded. 

Upon  the  return  of  this  second  process,  the  Court  of  Appeals 
is  moved  to  issue  a  third  one  against  the  owners  of  the  Privateers, 
who  are  already  likewise  the  agents  of  the  Crew  ;  and  possessing 


i8oi]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  419 

the  captured  property  are  interested  in  detaining  the  same  by 
every  dilatory  means,  which  it  may  be  in  their  power  to  employ  : 
in  a  word  such  are  the  various  inconveniences  in  carrying  into 
effect  a  decree  of  Restitution,  that  in  a  plurality  of  American  cases 
it  has  become  a  question  whether  it  is  not  the  part  of  prudence  to 
abandon  the  property  unjustly  captured  rather  than  to  pursue  a 
remedy  so  expensive,  dilatory  and  liable  to  ultimate  failure. 

If  the  proceeds  of  the  captured  Property  should  be  placed  in 
the  hands  of  an  officer  of  the  Court,  who  should  be  precluded 
from  employing  the  same  for  his  private  emolument,  a  great  source 
of  abuse  would  be  cut  off ;  it  would  moreover  be  a  still  greater 
reform,  if  a  joint  and  effectual  process  not  only  notifying  the 
sentence  of  Restitution,  but  peremptorily  enforcing  obedience  to 
it,  should  issue  against  the  Owners  and  Commanders  of  Privateers 
instead  of  distinct  and  successive  monitions — the  cause  having 
been  definitively  decided,  justice  seems  to  require  that  the  process 
intended  to  give  effect  to  such  decision,  should  be  direct  and 
peremptory,  reaching  all  the  Parties,  and  compelling  them  to 
obedience. 

With  perfect  consideration  &  Respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Rt.  Hon.  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  April  1,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

I  take  the  liberty  to  recall  to  your  Lordship's  recollection  the 
Letter  which  I  had  the  honour  to  write  to  you  on  the  10th  ultimo. 

The  unsettled  situation  of  the  business  to  which  that  Letter 
relates  is  productive  of  great  and  increasing  Disadvantages  to  the 
United  States,  and  although  its  adjustment  may  be  matter  of 
secondary  consideration  and  for  this  reason  may  continue  to  be 
postponed  to  other  and  more  pressing  concerns,  on  the  part  of  his 
Majesty's  Government,  it  is  nevertheless  a  subject  not  only  of 
great  importance  but  of  the  most  urgent  nature  on  the  part  of  the 
United  States.  Having  had  reason  to  expect  that  a  final  adjust- 
ment of  the  mutual  claims  of  the  two  countries  would  have  been 
effected  before  the  close  of  the  last  year,  I  sent  to  my  Govern- 
ment  information    to  that   effect,  and   from   time   to  time  have 


420  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

likewise  explained  what  I  conceived  to  be  the  causes  of  the  delays 
which  have  since  arisen  ;  the  negotiation  having  been  reduced  to 
precise  points,  which  have  been  fully  discussed,  it  has  become 
my  duty  to  transmit  to  my  Government  more  authentic  informa- 
tion respecting  the  delay  which  still  prevents  its  conclusion  ;  and 
to  enable  me  to  do  so,  I  take  the  liberty  to  request  your  Lordship 
to  inform  me,  whether  his  Majesty's  Government  has,  or  is  likely 
soon  to,  come  to  any  decision,  respecting  the  several  propositions 
referred  to  in  my  Letter  to  your  Lordship  of  the  10th  ultimo. 
With  high  consideration  &  Respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 

Mr.  King  writes  in  his  Memorandum  Book: 

1 801,  Apr.  3d  (Good  Friday). 

Dined  at  Ld.  Lansdown's,  reminded  him  of  the  papers  respec- 
ting the  American  Loyalists  and  relative  to  the  Amer.  Peace, 
wh.  he  had  said  he  wd.  shew  me.  He  repeated  his  determination 
to  shew  them  to  me,  said  he  wd.  be  in  town  in  May,  when  he 
wd.  look  them  out  ;  and  then  added  that  he  had  a  wish  that  they 
shd.  be  preserved  in  some  of  the  public  offices  of  the  U.  S.  I 
applauded  his  proposal  and  offered  to  deposit  them  there  as  testi- 
monial of  the  enlightened  views  wh.  governed  his  conduct  in 
making  the  Amer.  Peace. 

Referring  to  that  negotiation,  he  said  Lawrance  was  a  Rascal  ! 
that  he  believed  himself  sure  of  him,  when  he  left  England  ;  in- 
timated that  he  had  disappointed  his  expectation.  Franklin,  he 
said,  wanted  to  do  every  thing  by  cunning  wh.  was  the  bottom  of 
his  character  ;  that  the  Amer.  Peace  was  a  stock  jobbing  one  ; 
that  D'Aranda  &  the  French  Minrs.  gambled  in  the  English 
Funds  ;  he  knew  the  persons  whom  D'Aranda  employed  ;  that 
he  himself  was  faithfully  and  honorably  served  by  Ld.  St.  Helens 
(Fitzherbert)  to  whom  he  offered  a  pension  of  ^2000  a  year  after 
the  Treaty  was  made,  wh.  he  refused. 

That  there  was  no  secret  agency  as  in  the  peace  of  1763,  when 
there  were  three  skins,  one  within  another,  the  outside  one  the 
Duke  of  Bedford  knowing  nothing  of  the  second,  which  con- 
trolled his  measures,  and  the  second  ignorant  of  the  efficient  one 
which  really  did  the  business.  At  the  same  hour  that  an  official 
dispatch  ordered  the  Duke  of  Bedford  to   hold  a  certain  high 


1801]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  42  I 

language  to  the  French  Ministers,  a  second  one  gave  instructions 
to  the  confidential  agent  to  inform  the  Duke  Choiseul  beforehand 
that  the  Duke  of  Bedford  wd.  hold  a  certain  language,  of  wh.  it 
was  expected  that  no  notice  wd.  be  taken  ;  &c — 

Mr.  King  writes  in  his  Memorandum  Book: 

April  8. 

Having  requested  an  interview  with  the  new  Minister,  Mr. 
Addington,  I  went  to  his  house  in  Downing  Street  this  morning — 
having  prepared  a  Precis  of  the  Question  *  respecting  the  Br. 
Debts.  I  took  it  with  me,  and  after  expressing  the  object  of  my 
visit  delivered  him  the  paper  with  the  observation  that  what  I  had 
to  say  wd.  chiefly  apply  to  that  statement.  The  object  of  my  re- 
marks was  to  impress  upon  his  mind  that  any  farther  delay  in 
bringing  them  to  a  close  would  be  impolitic,  and  might  prove  inju- 
rious to  the  harmony  of  our  respective  countries.  He  received  this 
communication  in  a  satisfactory  manner,  said  that  Lord  Hawkes- 
bury  had  last  evening,  in  mentioning  his  appointment  with 
me,  alluded  to  the  negotiation  wh.  he  said  must  be  brought  to  a 
conclusion,  and  added  for  himself  that  the  business  shd.  posi- 
tively be  attended  to,  in  a  few  days,  or  in  other  words,  as  soon  as 
a  momentary  pressure  of  business  had  passed  by.  In  a  more 
general  conversation  wh.  ensued,  he  expressed  sentiments  such  as 
an  English  Minister  ought  to  entertain  respecting  America.  As  he 
knows  nothing  of  the  particular  subject  of  the  Debts,  he  made  no 
other  observation  respecting  it,  than  that  in  his  opinion  other  con- 
siderations arising  out  of  the  mutual  and  peculiar  advantages  of 
a  friendly  intercourse  between  G.  Br.  &  America  ought  to  have 
their  influence  in  the  settlement  in  question. 

I  inquired  of  the  King's  health.  He  said  it  was  certainly  im- 
proving ;  the  seven  last  days  had  done  much  to  restore  him  ;  he 
had  during  that  term  slept  well  every  night,  his  appetite  had  re- 
turned and  his  usual  habits  and  manners  towards  the  persons 
about  him  had  become  such  as  before  his  illness.  This  had  not 
been  the  case  before — probably  he  wd.  ride  out  today. 

He  certainly  has  not  been  as  before  insane  :  the  derangement 

has  been  that  of  a  violent  nervous  turn,  and  the  delirium  subsided 

with  the  fever.     The  physicians  are  still  with  him,  tho'  they  say 

in  any  other  case,  they  shd.  think  it  suitable  to  retire  ;  but  that  as 

*  The  Precis  delivered  by  Mr.  King  follows. 


422  KUFUS  KING.  [180: 


his  age  is  critical  (63)  and  the  same  remedies,  wh.  were  formerly 
beneficial,  have  been  otherwise  during  his  present  attack,  they 
think  it  proper  to  watch  the  state  of  their  patient's  health  till  it 
shall  be  completely  restored  and  confirmed.  That  he  attends  to 
urgent  and  indispensable  business  only,  reads  the  newspapers,  &c, 
but  does  not  engage  in  the  full  amount  of  affairs. 

Speaking  of  the  extraordinary  state  of  the  country,  with  a 
ministry  partly  old  and  partly  new,  he  intimated  that  the  chan- 
cellor (Loughborough)  wished  a  Regency  ;  that  the  Prince  sent 
for  him  three  times  and,  as  was  his  duty,  he  waited  on  him  ; 
that  in  his  first  visit  he  told  the  Pr.  that  he  was  not  in  office  ;  that 
Mr.  Pitt  was  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  ;  that  the  Pr.  then 
sent  for  Mr.  Pitt,  who  declined  going  without  him  Mr.  Adding- 
ton  ;  that  when  they  went  together  the  Pr.  intimated  his  deter- 
mination to  employ  the  person  chosen  by  the  King  ;  that  he 
expressed  his  sentiments  with  great  respect,  but  said  nothing 
manifesting  any  wishes  for  the  continuance  of  the  King's  favor- 
able attentions  by  the  Prince.  What  would  have  happened  he 
could  not  be  sure  ;  the  Regency  project  presented  to  and  refused 
by  him,  so  that  had  it  become  unavoidable  he  might  not  have  been 
in  very  good  odour. 

Alluding  to  the  disagreement  with  the  Northern  Powers,  he 
said,  that  the  King  had  a  pretty  strong  opinion  that  Hanover  wd. 
be  preserved  to  his  family  by  the  mutual  jealousy  between  France 
and  Prussia,  neither  of  wh.  would  be  willing  that  the  other  shd. 
possess  it,  tho'  both  might  covet  it  &  be  ready  to  deprive  his 
family  of  it. 

Respecting  the  Catholic  question,  he  said,  he  was  disposed  to 
complete  toleration,  but  there  were  certain  offices  to  wh.  he  could 
not  consent  to  admit  Catholics,  without  being  ready,  wh.  he  was 
not,  to  abolish  the  constitutional  principle  that  England  was  a 
protestant  kingdom. 

He  cd.  not  consent  that  a  Catholic  shd.  be  Lord  High  Chan- 
cellor, by  wh.  means  the  Protestants  might  have  Catholic  Bps  and 
Arch  Bps  set  over  them,  and  the  King's  conscience  might  be  in 
other  hands  than  their  ancestors  had  thought  worthy  of  keeping 
it.  He  wished  to  reform  Ireland,  to  emancipate  it,  but  the  reform 
and  emancipation  wh.  he  desired  was  not  to  convert  the  poor,  the 
ignorant  and  the  besotted  into  Legislators,  but  by  salutary  laws, 


1801]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  423 

to  rescue  them  from  poverty,  ignorance  and  religious  errors,  wh- 
alone  could  make  them  either  happy  or  respectable. 

Touching  upon  the  late  Debate  respecting  the  rights  of  belliger- 
ents and  neutrals,  I  disapproved  the  doctrine  laid  down  both  by 
Ld.  Grenville  and  Mr.  Pitt  in  respect  to  the  colony  trade,  adding 
that  they  were  not  called  upon  to  discuss  or  defend  that  point  ; 
wh.  certainly  was  less  capable  of  support  than  that  upon  wh  they 
were  at  issue  with  the  North  of  Europe,  and  the  maintenance  of 
wh.  might  raise  up  prejudices  in  quarters  not  disposed  to  unite  in 
the  Northern  League.  He  said  he  quite  agreed  with  me  in  the 
impolicy  of  these  extrajudicial  opinions. 


Delivered  to  Mr.  Addington  at  a  Conference. 

8th  April,  1801. 

According  to  the  course  of  the  Trade  between  Great  Britain 
and  America  before  the  war,  the  term  of  credit  never  exceeded 
twelve  months  ;  the  greater  part  of  the  Remittances  were  made 
in  the  Produce  of  the  Colonies,  which  according  to  the  Provisions 
of  the  Navigation  Act,  was  chiefly  sent  to  the  Mother  Country, 
and,  subject  to  particular  exceptions,  the  payments  were  annual. 
According  to  different  Documents  it  appears  that  during  the  last 
year  of  the  mutual  dealings  between  Great  Britain  and  the  Colonies, 
which  now  form  the  United  States,  the  new  debt  created  did  not 
exceed  one  tenth  of  the  usual  annual  amount,  while  the  payments 
were  greater  than  those  of  any  former  year  ;  so  that  it  may  be 
presumed  that  a  very  large  proportion  of  the  govt.  Debt  was 
actually  paid  before  the  intercourse  was  broken  off  by  the  war. 

British  Debts  were  in  some  instances  sequestered  in  the  course 
of  the  war  at  the  close  of  which  it  was  stipulated,  in  the  Treaty  of 
Peace,  that  all  legal  Impediments  to  the  recovery  of  bona  fide 
Debts  should  be  removed  in  both  cases. 

The  British  Creditors  complained  that,  notwithstanding  the 
stipulation,  they  were  not,  in  all  cases,  able  to  recover  their  Debts 
by  reason  of  the  continuance  of  legal  impediments  ;  and  the  6th 
article  of  the  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Commerce  of  1794,  provided 
that  a  Commission  should  be  established  with  authority  to  award 
Compensation  to  be  paid  by  the  American  Government  for  losses 
sustained  by  the  British  Creditors,  by  reason  of  the  continuance 
of  such  legal  impediments  ;  provided  the  same  could  not  be 
recovered  in  the  ordinary  course  of  the  Judicial  Department. 


424  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

The  Proceedings  of  this  Commission  were  arrested  on  account 
of  a  difference  of  opinion  among  the  Commissioners  in  the  inter- 
pretation of  their  Powers  ;  and  the  United  States  ordered  their 
Minister  in  London  to  propose  to  the  British  Government  an 
article  explanatory  of  the  Treaty  of  1794,  and  which  should 
ascertain  its  opinion  with  greater  precision. 

Great  Britain  declined  the  proposal  of  an  explanatory  Article, 
and  offered  to  suppress  the  Article  which  it  was  proposed  to 
explain,  provided  the  United  States  would  pay  a  sum  of  between 
one  and  two  millions  Sterling,  which  should  be  received  in  full 
satisfaction  of  the  whole  Debt  claimed  by  the  British  Creditors. 
As  many  of  the  American  Debtors  have  paid  their  Debts,  and 
most  of  those  who  had  not  were  able  to  pay  them  ;  and  as  the 
American  Courts  were  completely  open  to  enforce  such  payments, 
the  United  States  declined  the  proposal  of  paying  a  sum  in  lieu 
and  satisfaction  of  the  whole  Debt,  and  authorised  her  Minister 
to  offer  a  sum  in  lieu  of  what  ought  under  the  Treaty  of  1794  be 
awarded  to  be  paid  by  the  American  Government,  leaving  to  the 
Creditors  their  full  rights  to  recover  their  Debts  in  the  ordinary 
course  of  the  Judiciary. 

This  last  proposal  having  been  fully  discussed,  and  the  negotia- 
tion brought  to  a  point,  it  now  only  remains  to  be  decided  whether 
it  shall  be  closed  upon  the  proposed  Terms,  or  left  open  and 
liable  to  the  casualties  and  mutual  Disadvantages  to  which  the 
changes  of  the  present  times  may  expose  it. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  9. 

London,  April  10,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  unexpected  occupation  of  Hamburgh  by  the  Danes  and 
the  Treaty  between  France  and  Naples  have  nearly  completed 
the  exclusion  of  the  Ships  of  England  from  the  Ports  of  the  Con- 
tinent ;  if  the  King  of  Prussia  take  possession  of  Hanover,  as  it  is 
believed  he  will  do,  the  Ems  and  the  Weser  will  in  like  manner  be 
closed  ;  and  as  Portugal  is  unable  to  resist  the  measures  employed 
against  her,  the  Ships  of  England  must  very  shortly  be  excluded 
from  every  Port  of  the  Continent  from  Archangel  to  Venice. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  425 

Notwithstanding  these  impediments,  Goods  of  all  descriptions 
have  been  sent  in  unusually  large  quantities  in  Neutral  Ships, 
directly  from  England  to  France.  The  difficulty  in  procuring 
Neutral  Flags  since  the  misunderstanding  with  the  Northern 
Powers  has  somewhat  checked  this  Commerce,  which  will  however 
be  now  resumed  with  fresh  vigour  in  American  Bottoms.  French 
Merchants  have  openly  attended  the  sales  of  the  East  India  Com- 
pany, and  their  purchases  are  shipped  directly  to  France,  under 
Licenses  granted  by  the  Privy  Council,  which  although  they  do 
not  specify  the  ownership,  protect  the  property  in  its  Passage. 
Each  Country  seems  disposed  to  encourage  this  intercourse  ; 
France  by  opening  her  Ports  to  Vessels  coming  immediately  from 
England,  and  England  by  protecting  Frenchmen,  who  come 
hither  as  Swiss  merchants,  in  their  purchases  and  assisting  them 
by  taking  off  the  Sequestration  upon  Debts  due  to  Persons  re- 
siding in  France,  on  condition  that  the  money  be  laid  out  in  the 
purchase  of  Goods  to  be  exported  to  the  Continent. 

Tho'  frequent  couriers  pass  and  repass  between  Paris  and 
London  Peace  continues  to  be  the  subject  of  doubtful  expecta- 
tion, and  will  remain  so  till  the  uncertainty  which  hangs  over  the 
Expeditions  against  Egypt  and  the  Baltic  shall  be  removed.  It  is 
quite  probable  that  something  decisive  has  by  this  time  taken 
place  in  Egypt.  Accounts  are  hourly  expected  of  the  proceedings 
of  the  Fleet  under  Sir  Hyde  Parker  ;  the  delay  which  occurred  in 
attempting  the  passage  of  the  Sound,  after  the  Fleet  reached  the 
Cattegat,  has  given  rise  to  the  belief  that  negotiations  were  still 
going  on,  notwithstanding  the  English  Legation  has  left  Copen- 
hagen, and  the  Danish  Envoy  leaves  London  tomorrow  ;  but  the 
delay  is  more  naturally  explained  by  the  fact  that  a  steady  and 
leading  wind  is  necessary  to  enable  the  Fleet  to  proceed. 

If  Egypt  be  evacuated  by  the  French,  a  very  thorny  point  in 
the  way  of  negotiation  will  be  overcome,  and  Malta  in  this  event 
might  be  given  to  Russia  as  the  price  of  reconciliation  with  that 
Power.  France  will  doubtless  put  forward  a  demand  that  England 
shall  acknowledge  the  Principles  of  the  Northern  League,  but 
may  perhaps  be  willing  to  abandon  the  claim,  when  every  other 
difficulty  in  the  way  of  Peace  shall  be  got  over. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XXX. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Advises  Publication  of  his  last  Letter  to  Lord 
Hawkesbury  on  the  Seizure  of  Vessels  loaded  with  Spanish  Goods,  and  the 
Answers  from  Lord  Hawkesbury  and  Duke  of  Portland — Sentence  of  the 
Vice-Admiralty  Courts  erroneous — King  to  Secretary  of  State — English 
Fleet  at  Copenhagen — Death  of  Emperor  Paul — Probable  Break  of 
Northern  League — Nelson's  Victory  at  Copenhagen — King  to  Sir  W. 
Scott,  asking  how  long  before  Appointment  of  new  Judges  in  Vice- 
Admiralty  Courts — King  to  Strickland — Estimate  of  Jefferson — King  to 
Secretary  of  State — United  States  Affairs,  though  delayed,  may  be  settled 
on  reasonable  Principles — Lord  Hawkesbury  promised  early  Attention — 
Mr.  Addington  favors  Settlement  on  the  6th  Article  on  Terms  proposed — 
Obliged  to  Mr.  Sitgreaves  for  his  Help — King  to  Secretary  of  State — 
Action  at  Copenhagen — Russia  to  re-establish  friendly  Relations  with  Eng- 
land— Russia  has  taken  Possession  of  Hanover — Negotiations  between 
Paris  and  London  going  on — The  King's  Relapse — Uncertainty  of  his  Re- 
covery— Jewels  etc.,  sent  to  Bey  of  Tunis — Wants  Money  to  pay  for  them 
and  for  various  Salaries  and  Commissions — King  to  Secretary  of  State — 
Interviews  with  Ministers  on  several  Matters,  especially  the  Debts — 
Reasons  for  a  more  favorable  Disposition  towards  United  States — King  to 
Lord  Eldon — Asks  his  Attention  to  the  Matter  of  English  Debts  and  urging 
a  Settlement — King  to  Troup — Jefferson's  Speech  well  received — English 
Affairs — Cabot  to  King — Ellsworth  gives  a  gloomy  Account  of  Europe — 
Hopes  King  will  not  return  Home. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  10. 

London,  April  12,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  lose  no  time  in  sending  you  the  annexed  copies  of  a  letter 
which  I  lately  wrote  to  Lord  Hawkesbury  and  of  his  answer,  re- 
specting  the   seizure  of  our   vessels  carrying  from  the  United 

426 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  427 

States  to  the  Spanish  Colonies  articles  of  the  growth  and  manu- 
facture of  Spain. 

Though  I  had  seen  in  the  American  Newspapers  frequent  ac- 
counts of  these  Depredations  upon  the  Trade,  the  Decree  of  the 
Vice-Admiralty  Court  of  Nassau,  in  the  Case  of  the  Leopard,  Ropes 
Master,  was  the  first  Document  which  I  met  with,  that  possessed 
sufficient  precision  to  enable  me  to  make  it  the  grounds  of  a 
Remonstrance. 

I  take  the  liberty  of  suggesting  the  expediency  of  publishing 
these  copies  in  our  Newspapers,  as  the  most  expeditious  means  of 
communicating  them  to  the  cruising  Ships  and  Privateers  in  the 
American  Seas.  Having  intimated  this  suggestion  to  Lord 
Hawkesbury  before  he  prepared  and  sent  me  his  answer,  there 
can  be  no  exceptions  here  against  such  publication. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


Lord  Hawkesbury  to  R.  King. 

Downing  Street,  April  11,  1801. 
Sir: 

I  have  the  honour  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  Letter  of 
the  13th  of  last  month,  and  to  inform  you  that  in  consequence  of 
the  Representations  contained  in  it,  a  Letter  has  been  written,  by 
his  Majesty's  command,  by  his  Grace  the  Duke  of  Portland, 
to  the  Lord  Commissioners  of  the  iVdmiralty,  a  copy  of  which 
Letter  I  herewith  inclose  to  you  for  the  information  of  the  Gov- 
ernment of  the  United  States. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be  with  great  truth  &c.  &c. 

Hawkesbury. 


The     Duke    of    Portland    to    the   Lords    Commissioners 

of  the  Admiralty. 

Whitehall,,  30th  March,  1S01. 
My  Lords  : 

I  transmit  to   your   Lordships  herewith  a  copy  of  a  Decree  of 

the  Vice-Admiralty  Court  of  Nassau,  condemning  the  cargo  of 

an  American  Vessel  going  from   the   United  States  to  a  Port  of 

the  Spanish  Colonies  ;  and  the  said  decree  having  been  referred 


428  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 


to  the  consideration  of  the  King's  Advocate-General,  your  Lord- 
ships will  perceive  from  his  Report,  an  extract  of  which  I  inclose, 
that  it  is  his  opinion  that  the  sentence  of  the  Vice-Admiralty 
Court  is  erroneous  and  founded  in  a  misapprehension  or  misap- 
plication of  the  Principles  laid  down  in  the  decision  of  the  High 
Court  of  Admiralty  referred  to,  without  attending  to  the  limita- 
tions therein  contained. 

In  order  therefore  to  put  a  stop  to  the  inconveniences  arising 
from  these  erroneous  Sentences  of  these  Vice- Admiralty  Courts, 
I  have  the  honour  to  signify  to  your  Lordships  the  King's  pleas- 
ure that  a  communication  of  the  doctrine  laid  down  in  the  said 
Report  should  be  immediately  made  by  your  Lordships  to  the 
several  Judges  presiding  in  them,  setting  forth  what  is  held  to  be 
the  Law  upon  the  Subject  by  the  Superior  Tribunals  for  their 
future  guidance  and  direction. 

I  am  &c. 

Portland. 

Extract  of  the  Advocate-General's  Report  dated  the  16th 
March,  1801  : 

I  have  the  honour  to  report  that  the  Sentence  of  the  Vice- 
Admiralty  Court  appears  to  me  to  be  erroneous  and  to  be  founded 
in  a  misapprehension  or  misapplication  of  the  Principles  laid 
down  in  the  decision  of  the  Court  of  Admiralty  referred  to,  with- 
out attending  to  the  limitations  therein  contained. 

The  general  Principle  respecting  the  Colonial  Trade  has  in  the 
course  of  the  present  war  been  to  a  certain  degree  relaxed  in 
consideration  of  the  present  state  of  Commerce.  It  is  now  dis- 
tinctly understood,  and  it  has  been  repeatedly  so  decided  by  the 
High  Court  of  Admiralty  and  the  Court  of  Appeal,  that  the  Pro- 
duce of  the  Colonies  of  the  Enemy  may  be  imported  by  a  Neutral 
into  his  own  Country,  and  may  be  re-exported  thence  even  to  the 
Mother  Country  of  such  Colony  ;  and  in  like  manner  the  pro- 
duce and  manufactures  of  the  Mother  Country  may  in  this  cir- 
cuitous mode  legally  find  their  way  to  the  Colonies.  The  direct 
Trade,  however,  between  the  Mother  Country  and  its  Colonies 
has  not,  I  apprehend,  been  recognised  as  legal  either  by  his 
Majesty's  Government  or  by  his  Tribunals. 


i8oi]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  429 

What  is  a  direct  Trade,  or  what  amounts  to  an  intermediate  im- 
portation in  the  neutral  Country,  may  sometime  be  a  question  of 
some  difficulty  ;  a  general  definition  of  either,  applicable  to  all 
cases,  cannot  well  be  laid  down.  The  Question  must  depend 
upon  the  particular  circumstances  of  each  case.  Perhaps  the 
mere  touching  in  the  Neutral  Country  to  take  fresh  chances  may 
properly  be  considered  as  a  fraudulent  evasion,  and  is,  in  effect, 
the  direct  Trade  ;  but  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty  has  expressly 
decided,  and  I  see  no  reason  to  expect  that  the  Court  of  Appeals 
will  vary  the  rule — that  landing  the  Goods  and  paying  the  Duties 
in  the  Neutral  Country  breaks  the  continuity  of  the  Voyage,  and 
is  such  an  importation  as  legalizes  the  Trade,  altho'  the  Goods  be 
re-shipped  in  the  same  Vessel,  and  on  account  of  the  same  Neu- 
tral Proprietor,  and  be  forwarded  for  sale  to  the  Mother  Country 
or  the  Colony. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  11. 

London,  April  14,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  last  mail  from  Hamburgh  brings  the  news  that  the  English 
Fleet  having  passed  the  Sound  without  material  injury,  had  taken 
its  Station  before  Copenhagen.  Every  measure  on  the  part  of 
the  Danish  Government  is  marked  with  the  character  of  deter- 
mined hostility.  The  English  Property  in  Hamburgh  and  Altona, 
as  well  as  throughout  the  Danish  Territories  is  put  in  a  state  of 
sequestration.  Prussia  has  marched  troops  into,  and  taken  pos- 
session of  the  Electorate  of  Hanover  ;  and  the  confederates  seem 
each  to  be  executing  the  part  which  the  tenor  of  the  League  may 
have  bound  them  to  perform. 

At  this  critical  moment  a  Courier  has  arrived  here  from  Peters- 
burgh  with  the  news  of  the  sudden  death  of  the  Emperor  Paul  ; 
and  the  peaceable  accession  of  his  son  Alexander  to  the  Throne 
of  Russia.  It  is  said  that  he  is  likewise  the  bearer  of  Dispatches 
to  the  British  Government,  expressing  a  desire  to  reestablish  the 
good  understanding  which  formerly  subsisted  between  the  two 
Countries. 

Without  pretending  to  give  you  any  exact  information  of  the 
measures  which  this  sudden  event  may  have  already  produced,  it 


430  RUFUS  KING.  [1S01 

may  without  rashness  be  concluded  that  it  will  be  followed  by 
important  changes  among  which  the  breaking  up  of  the  Northern 
League  (in  which  Russia,  being  without  a  commercial  marine, 
has  no  direct  interest)  is  likely  to  be  the  first.  How  instructive 
to  America,  whom  Providence  has  separated  by  a  friendly  Ocean 
from  the  ancient  world,  are  these  great  and  endless  changes  in 
Europe,  and  how  forcible  the  admonition  which  they  give  us,  not 
to  disturb  the  prosperity  and  happiness  of  our  Country  by 
political  ties  which  can  in  no  event  prove  advantageous  ! 
With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

April  15th. 
P.  S.  An  officer  has  just  arrived  with  Dispatches  from  Sir 
Hyde  Parker,  with  the  account  of  the  attack  made  on  the  second 
instant  by  Lord  Nelson,  commanding  the  Van  of  the  English 
Fleet,  upon  the  Danish  Line  stationed  off  Copenhagen,  consisting 
of  twenty  three  ships  (seven  of  which  were  of  the  line)  and  sup- 
ported by  Gun  boats  and  Floating  Batteries.  The  contest  was 
bravely,  tho'  unskilfully  maintained  by  the  Danes  ;  Eighteen  of 
their  Ships,  including  all  the  ships  of  the  line,  were  taken  or 
destroyed  with  the  loss  in  killed  and  wounded  of  5000.  men.  On 
the  side  of  the  English  the  killed  and  wounded  amounted  to  600, 
including  in  the  former  two  Captains.  None  of  the  English 
Ships,  according  to  this  account,  were  materially  damaged.  A 
Truce  for  four  days  succeeded  to  this  action,  which  may  be  em- 
ployed in  a  negotiation  that,  it  is  hoped,  will  put  an  end  to  the 
war  with  Denmark  ;  the  death  of  the  Emperor  of  Russia,  which 
is  fully  confirmed,  and  the  opinion  that  his  successor  will  adopt 

a  new  system  of  Policy  may  hasten  this  desirable  result. 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Sir  William  Scott. 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  April  15,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  accounts  which  we  every  day  receive  from  America  of  the 

irritation  and    sense    of   injury  which   are   spreading  themselves 

throughout  our  commercial  towns,  occasioned  by  the  vexations  of 

our  Trade  by  the  cruising  ships  and  Privateers  of  G.  B.  in  the 


1801]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  431 

American  Seas,  make  me  extremely  solicitous  that  no  farther 
delay  should  take  place  in  completing  the  intended  reform  of  the 
Vice-adm.  Courts  in  the  West  Indies  and  Nova  Scotia. 

In  January  last  I  was  authorized  to  inform  my  Government 
that  their  reform  had  been  approved  by  the  King,  and  from  not 
having  foreseen  the  difficulties  which  have  retarded  its  execution, 
I  accompanied  the  information  with  assurances,  which  have  I  fear 
occasioned  expectations  in  respect  to  the  speedy  abolition  of  the 
old,  and  the  immediate  establishment  of  the  new,  Courts  that  will 
be  greatly  disappointed. 

I  persuade  myself  that  you  will  excuse  my  troubling  you  with 
this  communication,  as  well  on  acct.  of  the  importance  of  the 
subject,  as  because  it  is  one  much  connected  with  the  theories  of 
Public  Law  which  at  this  time  engage  the  attention  of  every  one, 
and  I  shall  feel  myself  particularly  obliged  to  you,  if  in  your 
power,  to  inform  me  how  long,  according  to  your  view  of  the 
Subject,  before  the  new  Judges  may  be  expected  to  be  at  their 
stations  and  ready  to  open  their  respective  courts. 

With  very  great  respect  &c 

R.  K. 


William  Strickland  to  R.  King. 

York,  April  15,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     I  should  otherwise  have  returned  you  earlier  thanks 

for  the  copies  you  have  sent  me  of  my  own  publication  ;  if  it 
prove  of  any  use  to  your  country,  my  object  in  some  of  the 
remarks  I  have  made  in  it  will  be  fully  answered.     .     .     . 

This  is  a  momentous  period  teeming  with  the  destinies  of  sev- 
eral countries  &  with  circumstances  that  may  materially  affect 
both  yours  and  mine.  We  have  experienced  a  change  long 
wanted,  rather  I  suspect  in  name  than  in  substance.  You  have 
had  a  change  of  men  which  may  be  productive  of  a  change  of 
measures,  because  principles  are  imputed  to  them  differing  much 
from  those  of  their  predecessors,  &  there  are  those  who  are  in- 
clined to  anticipate  more  evils  as  likely  to  arise  from  it,  than  1 
can  possibly  foresee.  I  am  not  unacquainted  with  Mr.  Jefferson, 
&  if  I  can  form  a  correct  judgment  of  his  system,  he  will  be 
desirous  of  promoting  the  internal  improvement  of  his  country, 


432  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

and  preserving  it  as  much  as  possible  from  being  entangled  with 
any  European  connections  :  nobody  will  contradict  the  propriety 
of  the  first,  and  few  will  doubt  the  propriety  of  the  last  ;  tho' 
there  may  be  those  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic  who  might  wish 
it  to  be  otherwise. 

Wishing  prosperity  to  your  country  &  happiness  to  yourself 
&c.  &c. 

I  am,  dear  Sir  yours  most  sincerely  &  faithfully 

Wm.  Strickland. 


From  R.  King's  Memorandum  Book. 

Apr.  20. 

Having  understood  that  Ld.  Hawkesbury  meant  to  consult  Ld. 
Grenville,  I  asked  the  latter  to  see  me.  He  received  me  this 
morning  at  Lady  Camelsford's.  After  speaking  of  the  state  of 
politics,  I  told  him  that  I  came  to  complain  that  since  he  left  the 
office  of  for.  affrs.,  our  business,  the  nature  &  urgency  of  wh.  he 
understood  better  than  anyone,  had  stood  still ;  that  I  was  sen- 
sible the  subject  was  new  to  Ld.  Hawkesbury  and  comprehended 
more  detail  than  perhaps  he  had  inclination  to  examine  ;  but  that 
tho'  we  could  offer  only  good  arguments  in  favour  of  our  opinions 
respecting  the  mode  of  settlement,  we  had  a  right  to  demand  an 
answer,  especially  as  the  affairs  had  been  many  months  under 
consideration  ;  that  I  cd.  go  no  farther.  I  believed  fully  that  I 
had  been  authorized  to  go  far  enough  ;  that  the  claim  was  in  fact 
the  remnant  of  old  scores  ;  and  moreover  that  I  had  no  reason  to 
expect  that  a  larger  sum  wd.  be  given  ;  that  the  unsettled  state  of 
the  business  was  disadvantageous  to  both  countries,  and  that  an 
erroneous  settlement  was  better  than  none.  Besides  if  there  were 
doubts  on  their  side  of  the  sufficiency  of  the  offer,  they  shd.  throw 
into  our  scale  the  just  inference  arising  from  the  comparison  of 
the  conduct  of  Amer.  with  that  of  any  other  neutral  nation.  Eng- 
land had  subsidized  some  nations  and  had  been  at  expense  of 
blood  and  treasure  to  defend  her  own  rights  agst.  the  claims  of 
others. 

America  had  stood  up  in  defence  of  her  own  rights,  had  re- 
sisted the  common  danger  and  had  conducted  in  a  manner  hon- 
ourable to  herself  and  friendly  to  England. 

Ld.    Grenville   said  he   was    ready  to  admit  all  I   had  said ; 


1801]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  433 

certainly  the  conduct  of  America  had  been  correct  and  he  had 
not  been  ten  years  in  office  without  learning  that  the  creditors 
\vd.  be  dissatisfied  with  any  settlement  wh.  even  the  Eng.  Govt, 
wd.  think  it  quite  reasonable  to  make  ;  and  that  as  they  wd.  be 
dissatisfied  by  any  settlement  likely,  their  mere  dissatisfaction 
must  be  laid  out  of  the  question  ;  that  he  wished  the  business  to 
be  closed  &  would  have  a  conversation  to  that  effect  with  Ld. 
Hawkesbury. 

It  was  in  this  conference  that  Ld.  Grenville,  speaking  of  the 
armed  neutrality,  told  me  that  Bernstoff,  the  father,  was  opposed 
to  the  measure  in  1780,  and  tho'  he  signed  as  Min.,  he  im- 
mediately gave  in  a  strong  paper  upon  the  subject  with  his 
resignation.  Ld.  G.  said  Sweden  had  manifested  no  spirit  or 
zeal  since  the  detention  of  her  Convoy. 

It  must  have  been  a  source  of  gratification  to  Mr.  King, 
while  so  deeply  engrossed  in  the  duties  of  his  ministerial 
office,  to  receive  from  Dr.  Drury,  at  Harrow,  such  accounts 
of  his  boys  there  as  were  sent  to  him. 

Joseph  Drury  to  R.  King. 

Harrow,  20th  April,  1801. 

With  your  permission  I  will  consign  your  sons  to  the  care  of 
Mr.  Henry  Drury  (as  Tutor)  who  will  to  the  utmost  of  his  power 
endeavour  to  fulfil  your  wishes  ;  but  I  hope  if  your  inclination 
leads  you  to  prefer  any  other  of  my  coadjutors,  you  will  not  hesi- 
tate to  tell  me  so,  as  any  such  decision  on  your  part  can  never 
take  from  the  interest  I  feel  for  your  truly  amiable  boys.  Indeed 
there  is  little  merit  in  such  a  declaration,  as  their  conduct  and 
disposition  must  always  insure  to  them  the  affection  of  those  to 
whose  care  they  are  committed. 

I  remain,  Sir,  with  great  respect  &c. 

Joseph  Drury. 

This  letter  is  followed  on  the  26th  of  April  by  one  from 
Mr.  Henry  Drury,  thanking  Mr.  King  for  committing  his 
sons  to  his  care,  and  saying  that  though  he  has  but  slight 
acquaintance  with  them,  "  he  is  happy  to  say  that  from  the 


VOL   III — 2l 


434  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

character  I  have  always  heard  from  Mr.  Kerr  (a  former 
Tutor),  and  the  kind  terms  in  which  Dr.  Drury  speaks  of 
them,  I  have  no  doubt  they  will  fully  justify  your  ex- 
pectations. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  13. 

London,  April  21,  1801. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Although  the  negotiation  respecting  the  Debts  is  not  yet  con- 
cluded, and  I  am  unable  to  give  you  any  positive  assurance  how, 
or  even  when,  it  will  be,  I  have  thought  it  proper  that  I  should 
avail  myself  of  the  opportunity  of  Mr.  Sitgreaves'  return  to  send 
you  a  copy  of  my  Correspondence  upon  this  subject,  as  well  as  of 
that  which  relates  to  other  points  that  are  still  under  considera- 
tion. I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  we  should  before  now  have 
come  to  a  satisfactory  conclusion  upon  the  subject  of  the  Debts, 
had  the  old  Ministry  remained  in  office  :  their  successors  profess 
sentiments  respecting  our  concerns  with  which  we  can  find  little 
fault ;  and  though  they  have  not  given  me  any  official  assurances 
concerning  the  adjustment  of  the  several  points  now  before  them, 
I  might,  did  not  experience  teach  me  that  foreign  circumstances 
have  their  influence  in  deciding  the  business  of  this  as  well  as  of 
other  cabinets,  infer  with  some  degree  of  confidence  from  their 
language,  that  our  affairs  will  ultimately  be  settled  upon  reason- 
able principles. 

You  will,  I  think,  perceive  from  the  tenor  of  the  Correspond- 
ence, that  I  have  not  been  insensible  on  the  one  hand  to  the 
great  disadvantage  of  the  delay  which  has  already  taken  place, 
nor  on  the  other  to  the  risque  to  which  a  reasonable  settlement  of 
our  affairs  may  be  exposed  by  any  such  material  changes  as  would 
be  likely  to  alter  what  appear  to  be  the  present  views  of  this 
Government. 

Lord  Hawkesbury  has  more  than  once  informed  me  that  he 
would  attend  to  our  concerns  at  the  first  moment  after  he  had 
extricated  himself  from  the  very  pressing  and  critical  State  of  the 
foreign  and  domestic  affairs ;  and  the  Under  Secretary,  Mr. 
Hammond,  who  is  almost  the  only  person  who  has  any  acquaint- 
ance with  our  affairs,  has  lately  told  me  that  he  wished  the  Ques- 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  435 

tion  of  the  Debts  to  be  settled  on  the  terms  I  had  offered,  and 
which  are  mentioned  in  my  No.  6,  and  I  asked  that  he  should  so 
express  himself  to  his  Superior. 

Mr.  Addington,  as  well  while  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons as  since  his  late  appointment,  has  uniformly  expressed 
himself  to  me  as  well  as  others  in  a  favourable  manner  not  only  in 
respect  to  the  propriety  and  justice  of  the  conduct  of  America 
during  the  present  war,  but  of  the  importance  of  our  Friendship 
to  Great  Britain  and  the  policy  of  removing  whatever  stood  in  the 
way  of  its  continuance  ;  and  in  a  Conference  upon  this  Subject, 
which  I  lately  asked  of  him,  he  told  me  that  he  would  act  upon 
those  Principles,  which  he  had  often  avowed  to  me  respecting 
America,  and  that  as  soon  as  they  could  get  rid  of  the  weight  of 
urgent  business  which  at  present  bears  upon  them  and  which  he 
said  would  be  in  a  short  time,  the  Questions  respecting  America 
should  be  taken  up  and  decided. 

Lord  St.  Vincent  too,  whose  opinion  concerning  the  impress- 
ment of  our  seamen,  I  had  reason  to  believe  would  be  of  great 
authority  either  for  or  against  the  proposed  article  upon  that  Sub- 
ject, has  explicitly  told  me  that  he  thought  the  article  a  reasonable 
one,  adding  at  the  same  time  that  the  general  subject  both  to 
England  and  America  was  full  of  difficulties,  which  were  becom- 
ing more  and  more  important  as  America  advanced  in  Commerce. 

You  must  not,  however,  from  all  this  infer  that  our  business 
will  be  settled  in  a  way  which  a  wise  policy  requires  that  it  should 
be.  I  think,  however,  that  a  Decision  cannot  be  much  longer  de- 
ferred ;  and  I  certainly  do  give  such  a  degree  of  credit  to  the 
temper  which  has  of  late  shown  itself,  and  the  language  which  is 
held  respecting  America,  that  I  am  disposed  rather  to  hope  for, 
than  despair  of,  such  a  settlement. 

The  Committee  of  the  Creditors,  if  consulted  as  they  probably 
will  be  upon  the  terms,  will  be  clamorous  against  them.  But  the 
Government  may,  notwithstanding  be  sufficiently  wise  and  firm  to 
decide  this  Subject  upon  Principles,  not  only  more  just,  as  they 
regard  its  merits,  than  those  which  the  Committee  would  recom- 
mend, but  with  views  sufficiently  comprehensive  to  render  their 
decisions  subservient  to  the  promotion  of  good  will  and  harmony 
with  their  best,  and  in  all  respects,  most  important  Customers. 

It  will  not  I  hope  be  thought  improper  that  I  take  this  oppor- 


436  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

tunity  to  express  to  you  how  much  I  have  been  obliged  to  Mr. 
Sitgreaves  for  the  assistance  which  he  has  given  to  me  upon  the 
Subject  of  the  Debts,  and  my  full  persuasion,  had  the  negotiation 
taken  the  turn  which  it  was  expected  it  would  have  done,  that  his 
information  and  talents  would  have  enabled  us  completely  to 
have  established  the  justice  of  the  explanatory  article  we  de- 
manded, and  which  had  become  necessary  to  protect  us  from  the 
injurious  effects  of  the  erroneous  construction  of  the  Treaty 
which  had  been  attempted  at  Philadelphia. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  14. 

London,  April  25,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

There  seems  to  have  been  something  mysterious  in  the  conduct 
of  the  King  of  Sweden,  who  is  said  to  have  been  at  the  Fortress 
of  Helsingbourg,  opposite  to  that  of  Helsinger,  when  the  English 
Fleet  passed  the  Sound  under  an  incessant,  tho',  as  it  turned  out 
to  be,  a  harmless  fire  of  the  Danish  Batteries  :  for  as  the  Swedish 
Forts  were  silent,  the  Fleet  kept  close  to  the  Swedish  shore,  and 
passed  without  being  touched  even  by  the  Danish  Cannon  :  ex- 
cepting a  few  of  the  leading  Ships  the  English  Fleet  did  not  even 
return  the  fire. 

The  action  which  ensued  off  Copenhagen  was  more  critical  than 
it  was  at  first  represented  to  have  been.  The  Commander  in  chief 
who  was  in  a  situation  to  observe  all  that  passed,  after  the  ships 
had  been  several  hours  hotly  engaged,  made  the  signal  to  call  them 
off  ;  Nelson,  it  seems,  did  not  see  it,  tho'  others  did  ;  and  by  per- 
severing under  circumstances  of  very  great  difficulty,  at  length 
succeeded  in  destroying  the  Danish  line  of  defence. 

The  Armistice  for  fourteen  weeks  which  has  been  concluded 
between  the  Danish  Government  and  Sir  Hyde  Parker,  has  been 
received  here  with  great  coldness,  and  is  said  to  be  not  only  un- 
authorized by  the  Admiral's  instructions  but  directly  contrary  to 
them.  The  avowed  object  of  the  Expedition  was  in  the  first 
instance  to  compel  Denmark,  by  destroying  its  Fleet  and  mena- 
cing Copenhagen  with  a  Bombardment,  to  secede  from  the  Confed- 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  437 

eracy.  This  is  not  attained.  The  Convention  will  be  confirmed, 
but  Sir  Hyde  Tarker  will  probably  be  recalled,  and  the  command 
of  the  Fleet  given  to  Lord  Nelson,  who  will  moreover  be  raised  a 
degree  higher  in  the  Peerage. 

The  next  attack,  it  is  understood,  will  be  upon  the  Swedish  Ships 
of  War  at  Carlscrona  which  is  represented  to  be  accessible  to  the 
English  Fleet. 

The  character  and  views  of  the  new  Emperor  of  Russia  are  at 
present  the  subject  of  interesting  speculation.  Nothing  decisive 
upon  these  points  has  yet  shewn  itself  ;  favourable  inferences  are, 
however,  drawn  from  his  circular  Letter  announcing  his  Father's 
death,  having  been  sent  to  this  Court ;  a  circumstance  it  seems 
unusual  between  nations  at  war.  Count  Woronzow,  too,  formerly 
the  Russian  Envoy  here,  and  whose  Estates  had  been  recently 
sequestered  from  some  unjust  and  capricious  motive  of  the  late 
Emperor,  has  been  ordered  to  signify  to  this  Government  the  new 
Emperor's  desire  to  re-establish  the  former  friendship  between  the 
two  Countries,  and  to  add,  if  England  will  name  an  Envoy  to 
Russia,  that  he  shall  be  authorized  to  resume  his  Diplomatic  char- 
acter here.  In  this  posture  of  affairs,  great  exertions  will  be  made 
to  detach  the  Emperor  of  Russia  from  the  Confederacy,  as  well 
as  to  confirm  him  in  it.  The  King  of  Prussia  has  taken  full  pos- 
session of  Hanover  notwithstanding  it  has  been  constantly  paying 
him  money  to  protect  its  neutrality  ;  but  as  it  is  confidently  be- 
lieved that  this  step  is  inconsistent  with  the  views  of  France,  which 
may  treat  Prussia  with  less  reserve  since  the  Peace  with  Austria 
and  the  Empire  whatever  may  be  the  fate  of  the  Electorate,  it  is 
not  thought  probable  that  the  King  of  Prussia  will  be  permitted  to 
keep  it. 

The  English  army  effected  a  landing  in  Egypt  on  the  8th  of 
March  ;  the  Disembarkation  was  opposed,  and  several  partial  en- 
gagements took  place  between  Aboukir  and  Alexandria  from  the 
8th  to  the  16th,  the  date  of  the  last  news.  We  may  daily  expect 
farther  and  more  important  news  from  that  Quarter.  The  issue 
of  the  contest  is  doubtful  ;  especially  as  the  army  expected  from 
India,  thro'  the  Red  Sea,  may  fail  in  its  co-operation. 

I  mention  these  detached  facts  to  prove  that  the  negotiation, 
which  still  goes  on  by  courier  between  Paris  and  London,  must 
wait  for  and  depend  upon,  events  still  undecided  in  the  North, 


438  RUFUS  KING.  [18 


01 


as  well  as  in  the  South,  and  that  all  conjectures  concerning  its 
result  must  therefore  be  illusory. 

The  King's  recovery  has  not  been  *  complete,  the  same  remedies 
have  not  had  the  same  effect  as  on  a  former  occasion,  the  fever  and 
the  delirium  having  subsided  it  was  believed  that  he  would  soon 
recover,  but  by  too  early  attention  to  business,  or  the  news  respecting 
Hanover,  or  perhaps  the  nature  of  his  disease,  he  has  suffered  a 
relapse,  and  tho'  not  quite  as  ill  as  he  has  been,  he  is  so  much  so  as  to 
inspire  great,  and  I  believe  well  founded,  anxiety  lest  he  should  never 
completely  recover :  his  present  state  is  that  of  extreme  debility.  Cir- 
cumstanced as  the  Ministers  are  their  difficulties,  as  well  as  those  of 
the  country,  are  much  encreased  by  this  uncertain  state  of  the  King's 
malady.     With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  15. 

London,  April  26,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Some  months  ago  I  received  instructions  from  the  Department 
of  State  to  take  measures  to  procure  a  quantity  of  Jewels  as  a 
Present  to  the  Bey  of  Tunis.  According  to  the  Estimate  which  I 
had  previously  obtained  and  sent  to  the  Department  of  State  the 
articles  will  cost  about  Seven  Thousand  Pounds  Sterling.  That 
part  of  the  Presents,  which  consists  of  silks  and  woollen  Cloths, 
to  the  amount  of  about  a  Thousand  Pounds,  has  by  my  direction 
been  sent  to  Mr.  Eaton,  our  consul  at  Tunis,  by  the  House  of  Maw- 
hood  &  Co.  whom  he  recommended  to  me  to  do  this  branch  of  the 
business,  and  with  whose  character  I  had  reason,  upon  enquiry, 
to  be  satisfied.  Such  of  the  articles  as  are  strictly  Jewelry  have 
been  for  several  months  preparing  by  Rundel  &  Bridges,  and  will 
probably  be  finished  in  June,  about  which  time  the  Guns,  Pistols, 
&c,  will  also  be  completed  by  Mortimer.  I  have  applied  directly 
to  the  Manufacturers,  instead  of  employing  an  agent  to  do  so,  who 
would  have  charged  us  with  a  commission.  Mawhood  &  Co.  would 
have  allowed  a  discount  of  6  per  cent,  upon  the  Silks  and  Wool- 
lens supplied  by  them  for  prompt  payment ;  this  I  could  not  make, 
as  no  funds  have  been  remitted.    They  will  expect  payment  at  the 

*  Italics  in  cipher. 


i8oi]  LIFE   AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  439 

expiration  of  six  months  from  the  shipment  of  the  goods  ;  and 
Rundel  &  Bridges,  as  well  as  Mortimer,  will  expect  payment  upon 
the  delivery  of  the  Articles  which  they  are  severally  preparing. 
Mawhood  &  Co.  have  by  my  direction  insured  the  goods  which 
they  shipped,  and,  to  guard  against  accidents,  I  think  it  will  be 
prudent  to  insure  the  residue  of  the  articles  when  they  are  sent. 
My  object  in  making  this  communication  is  to  recall  the  subject 
to  the  recollection  of  the  Government  in  order  that  seasonable  and 
adequate  funds  may  be  prepared  to  defray  this  expence. 

Sometime  before  Col.  Pickering  went  out  of  office,  he  informed 
me  that  he  should  soon  remit  the  usual  sums  for  the  Salaries  of 
the  Legations  to  this  country  and  to  Prussia,  as  well  as  for  the 
Salaries  and  contingent  Expenses  of  the  Commissioners  under 
the  7th  Article  of  the  English  Treaty,  together  with  a  further  sum 
for  the  Relief  and  Protection  of  our  Seamen,  and  to  defray  the 
Expences  of  carrying  on  those  maritime  suits,  with  which  the 
Government  had  charged  itself. 

This  was  not  done  before  Col.  Pickering's  retirement,  and  only 
eighteen  hundred  pounds  have  since  been  remitted  from  the  De- 
partment of  State.  As  we  now  are  advanced  into  the  second  year 
since  the  usual  annual  Remittances  were  made,  and  as,  moreover, 
our  accounts  have  been  burthened  with  advances  made  to  Mr.  Ells- 
worth and  Mr.  Sitgreaves,  our  bankers  Mess.  Bird,  Savage  &  Bird 
are  considerably  in  advance,  and  the  Proctors,  as  Mr.  Williams 
informs  me,  have  of  late  become  pressing  for  the  payment  of 
their  Bills.        With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  16. 

London,  May  1,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Having  learned  that  the  law  which  prohibited  our  commercial 

intercourse    with    France    had    ceased,    and   judging   that    great 

numbers  of  our  vessels  would  be  immediately  cleared  out  for  the 

different  Ports  of  that  country,  and  probably,  among  others,  for 

Ports  in  a  State  of  Blockade,  I  wrote  a  note  to  this  effect  to  Lord 

Hawkesbury,  and  requested  that  immediate  instructions  should  be 

given  to  the  Commanders  of  the  Cruizers  and  investing  Ships  to 


440  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 


warn  and  turn  away,  instead  of  detaining  for  adjudication  such  of 
our  vessels  as  might  be  met  on  their  way  to  the  Ports  of  France, 
which  are  blockaded  by  the  English  forces  ;  and  I  yesterday  went 
to  Lord  St.  Vincent  to  enquire  whether  these  orders  have  been 
given.  His  Lordship  informed  me  that  although  my  Letter  had 
not  reached  his  Department,  he  thought  the  request  so  entirely 
reasonable,  that  he  would  that  evening  dispatch  the  requisite 
orders  to  comply  with  it. 

From  Lord  St.  Vincent's  I  went  to  Lord  Hawkesbury,  agree- 
ably to  his  appointment,  and  upon  the  Subject  which,  notwith- 
standing my  unremitted  attention  bestowed  in  every  quarter  likely 
to  promote  its  progress,  has  been  so  long  delayed,  his  Lordship, 
after  expressing  his  regret  that  the  business  had  not  been  settled 
before  Lord  Grenville  went  out  of  office,  and  excusing  the  delay 
which,  on  several  accounts  had  since  taken  place,  told  me  that  so 
far  as  regarded  himself,  he  had,  in  respect  to  the  settlement  of  the 
affairs  of  the  Debts,  come  to  a  decision  :  that  he  must  however, 
confer  with  his  colleagues,  and  particularly  with  the  Lord  Chan- 
cellor Eldon,  but  that  he  was  disposed  himself  to  close  with  the 
offer,  which  ;I  had  made  and  which  is  mentioned  in  more  than 
one  of  my  Letters.  On  my  suggesting  the  great  disadvantage  of 
further  delay,  arising  from  a  minute  examination  of  the  subject 
by  the  Chancellor,  he  replied  that  he  would  have  a  conversation 
with  him  ;  and  that  he  presumed  that  his  opinion  might  be  formed 
from  a  general  view  of  the  Question,  and  that  therefore  no  con- 
siderable delay  would  be  likely  to  happen. 

Upon  the  other  points  I  have  great  hopes  we  shall  not  experi- 
ence much  difficulty  ;  but,  in  the  system  of  this  country,  there 
are  many  and  inseparable  reasons,  why  every  thing  of  this  sort 
advances  but  slowly  ;  and  in  the  present  situation  of  the  Execu- 
tive Power,  these  tendencies  to  delay  are  considerably  encreased. 

The  reform  of  the  Admiralty  Courts,  a  measure  of  the  greatest 
importance,  and  which  I  expected  would  have  been  completed  be- 
fore this  Time,  has  been  found  more  difficult  than  was  at  first 
supposed  ;  and  instead  of  being  effected  by  mere  orders  of  the 
Executive  Power,  as  was  intended,  a  Law  has  been  thought  neces- 
sary and  the  Bill  is  now  before  Parliament.  I  have  had  several 
meetings  with  Sir  William  Scott,  upon  this  subject,  who  is  charged 
with  its  Execution,  and  professes  to  be  solicitous  that  the  Reform 
should  give  us  reasonable  and  full  satisfaction. 


1801]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  44 1 

I  have  endeavoured  to  understand  the  variety  and  nature  of  the 
Admiralty  Process  and  think,  notwithstanding  the  objection  of 
innovation,  that  the  practice  of  these  courts,  as  well  as  their  Pro- 
cess, will  receive  some  very  material  improvements.  You  will  see 
by  the  Debates  of  the  House  of  Commons,  that  both  sides  unite 
in  the  acknowledgment  of  the  great  injury  we  have  suffered  from 
the  ignorant,  vexatious,  unjust,  and  as  Mr.  Hobhouse  called  them, 
corrupt  decisions  of  the  West  India  and  Halifax  Courts.  I  shall 
send  you  copies  of  the  papers  laid  before  Parliament  upon  this 
subject. 

It  is  to  the  opinion  which  of  late  has  become  general  in  the  House 
of  Commons,  respecting  the  injuries  we  have  sustained  from  the 
Depredations  upon  our  Commerce,  added  to  others  derived  from 
a  comparison  of  our  conduct  with  that  of  other  neutral  nations, 
that  we  owe  a  temper  more  favourable,  than  has  heretofore 
existed,  with  respect  to  our  affairs. 

It  seems  to  be  generally  believed  that  the  late  Emperor  of  Rus- 
sia suffered  a  violent  death  ;  the  accounts  differ  only  in  respect  to 
the  agents,  and  means  employed  in  its  execution.  The  effect  of 
this  change  upon  the  Northern  League,  is  not  yet  fully  ascertained. 
Here  it  is  hoped  and  believed  that  it  offers  an  opportunity  for 
mutual  explanations  which  may  put  an  end  to  further  testimony 
in  that  Quarter. 

Lord  St.  Helens,  formerly  Mr.  Fitzherbert,  who  negotiated 
the  American  Treaty  of  Peace,  is  named  for  St.  Petersburgh  ; 
and  the  last  Packet  brought  official  accounts  that  Russia  and 
Denmark  had  receded  from  their  former  determination  to  exclude 
the  English  from  the  North  of  Germany  by  closing  the  Elbe,  the 
Weser  and  the  Ems  against  them  ;  and  not  only  that  these  Ports 
were  again  free,  but  that  the  prohibitions  against  the  exportation 
of  Corn  and  Naval  Stores  from  the  Ports  of  Russia  and  Prussia  are 
also  revoked.  Exclusive  of  the  Events  which  have  happened  in  the 
North,  the  encreased  facilities  which  the  English  Trade  has  lately 
experienced  in  the  Ports  of  France  and  Holland,  may  have  con- 
tributed to  produce  this  change  of  measures. 

A  Report  which  arrived  yesterday  from  Paris,  but  which  needs 
confirmation,  states  the  complete  success  of  Abercrombie  in 
Egypt. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


442  RUFUS  KING.  [180: 


R.  King  to  Right  Honble.  Lord  Eldon. 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  May  3,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

It  is  frequently  less  troublesome  for  men  of  business  to  receive 
and  consider  an  application  by  Letter,  than  to  receive  the  visit  of 
him  who  makes  it  ;  from  this  consideration  only  I  am  led  on  the 
present  occasion  to  prefer  this  mode,  and  to  trouble  your  Lord- 
ship with  the  enclosed  brief  statements  of  a  case  of  some  conse- 
quence, which  has  been  the  subject  of  a  pretty  free  discussion 
between  me  and  his  Majesty's  Government,  and  which  I  have 
reason  to  believe  awaits  only  for  your  Lordship's  approbation  to 
be  satisfactorily  adjusted. 

It  is  quite  probable  that  the  Creditors,  if  consulted,  may  de- 
mand a  larger  compensation  than  I  am  authorized  to  offer  ;  but 
experience  has  taught  me  that  the  expectations  of  interested  Per- 
sons can  seldom  be  received  as  rules  of  Justice,  and  never  as  the 
grounds  of  accommodation  depending  on  mutual  concession  ; 
the  sum  we  offer  is,  in  our  view,  a  liberal  one,  considering  that 
the  debt  still  outstanding  is  the  remnant  of  old  scores,  and,  to  use 
a  homely  expression,  the  fag-end  of  the  ancient  dealings  of  the 
two  Countries. 

A  question  like  this,  and  which  does  not  admit  of  exact  proof 
on  either  side,  seems  to  be  the  proper  subject  of  compromise  ; 
I  therefore  flatter  myself  that  your  Lordship  will  be  inclined  to 
recommend  a  settlement  of  this  long-standing  concern,  in  the 
only  manner  it  is  in  my  power  to  propose,  and  which,  upon  the 
most  impartial  views  of  it  that  I  have  been  able  to  form,  appears 
to  me  to  promise  advantages  to  the  Creditors,  superior  to  those 
they  could  expect  to  attain  in  any  other  way. 

With  respect  to  the  renewal  of  the  Commission,  exclusive  from 
the  lesson  derived  from  the  Proceedings  of  the  former  Board,  I 
cannot  help  remarking  that  this,  like  many  other  Projects,  which 
Theory  seems  to  recommend,  is  found  to  be  of  very  little  value  in 
practice  ;  arbitrations  do  well  enough  in  private  concerns,  and 
under  control  of  courts  of  Law,  but  have  rarely  succeeded  in 
the  affairs  of  nations,  where  the  Principals  are  mutually  inde- 
pendent. 

Were  I  not  satisfied  of  the  justice  which  we  are  willing  to  per- 
form on  this  occasion,  I  would  ask  your  Lordship  to  throw  into 


l8oi]  LIFE   AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  443 

the  Scale  the  just  influence  in  our  favour,  arising  from  the  com- 
parison of  our  conduct  and  that  of  any  other  Nation  during  the 
present  war.  To  some  Great  Britain  has  paid  subsidies  to  enable 
them  to  exert  themselves  in  their  own  defence,  and  against  others 
she  has  been  obliged  to  incur  heavy  expencesof  blood  &  Treasure 
for  her  own  security.  America  alone,  among  the  Neutral  States, 
has  borne  up  against  the  common  Danger,  and  throughout  the 
War  has  maintained  a  Conduct  honourable  to  herself  and  friendly 
to  the  rights  of  Great  Britain. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

From  R.  King's  Memorandum  Book. 

May  6th.  Went  to  Mr.  Addington  the  Minister,  who  received 
me  in  a  friendly  manner  and  told  me  that  he  had  not  been  in- 
attentive to  our  business,  that  it  had  been  before  the  Cabinet, 
that  Lord  Eldon  had  read  the  papers  and  meant  soon  to  ask  me  to 
come  and  dine  and  discuss  the  matter  with  me  :  that  he  had  said  in 
the  Cabinet  that  he  thought  no  connexion  more  important  than 
that  of  America  and  that  he  considered  the  question  of  the  Debts 
as  the  thread  upon  wh.  the  amity,  by  wh.  I  mean  he  added  to  me 
the  good  humour  and  friendly  intercourse  of  the  two  Countries 
in  a  considerable  degree  depended. 

That  his  Colleagues,  he  believed,  viewed  the  subject  in  a  favour- 
able light  and  that  he  hoped  it  wd.  soon  be  settled  ;  that  I  shd. 
find  the  Chancellor  a  very  different  man  from  his  Predecessor,  who 
he  said  would  have  been  willing  to  have  remained  with  him  in 
office  ;  but  as  he  had  no  absolutely  fixed  character,  and  was  a  per- 
son to  whom  he  cd.  not  act  in  that  entirely  unreserved  way  that  he 
knew  he  cd.  do,  with  the  certainty  of  a  full  and  honest  reciprocity, 
with  Lord  Eldon,  he  had  preferred  the  latter  and  declined  the 
former  Chancellor's  services. 

Speaking  of  the  Prize  Courts  he  expressed  his  hope  that  the 
West  Ind.  Courts  wd.  be  put  on  a  satisfactory  footing  ;  and  that 
with  regard  to  the  Court  of  Appeals  he  was  determined  to  have  a 
certain  number  of  persons,  who  shd.  make  it  a  business.     .     . 

Of  politics  he  said  they  hoped  for  peace  ;  that  neither  success 
nor  adversity  wd.  change  their  wishes.  Moderate  and  reasonable 
in  their  views,  they  should  not  enhance  their  demands,  nor  de- 


444  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

part  from  what  their  own  safety  &  honour  required  ;  that  in 
respect  to  the  negotiation,  they  seemed  perpetually  approaching 
without  being  any  nearer  ;  but  that  this  was  intelligible  enough 
&  had  respect  to  Egypt  and  the  North.  The  public  knew  all  they 
knew  from  Egypt,  &  with  regard  to  the  North  he  was  not  without 
expectation  that  things  wd.  attain  a  more  satisfactory  situation. 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

London,  May  9,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

It  is  nearly  two  months  since  we  have  received  any  political 
news  from  America  :  indeed  we  scarcely  know  anything  which 
has  passed  since  the  completion  of  the  Presidential  Election.  At 
first  and  by  the  help  of  Porcupine  (who  by  the  by  is  going  very 
fast  out  of  repute,  having  been  entirely  cast  off  from  those  gov- 
ernmental sources  of  information  which  he  at  first  boasted  of,)  a 
considerable  sensation  was  excited  and  many  people  believed 
there  would  be  a  war  with  America  ;  in  a  little  time  these  fears 
have  vanished,  and  the  speech  of  Mr.  Jefferson  has  been  very 
generally  well  received.  The  new  ministry  act  with  much  mod- 
eration, profess  to  be  in  earnest  for  Peace,  and  openly  avow  that 
neither  success  nor  disappointment  shall  change  their  views  upon 
this  interesting  subject. 

Some  measures  of  justice  towards  us  have  been  adopted,  and  I 
entertain  considerable  hopes  that  our  affairs  will  at  last  be  satis- 
factorily adjusted. 

The  King's  health  is  still  critical,  and  he  continues  to  be  unable 
to  enter  into  the  current  of  Business.  The  affairs  of  the  North, 
I  mean  the  Controversy  about  the  armed  neutrality,  will  according 
to  present  appearances  be  settled  ;  from  Egypt  we  are  in  daily 
expectation  of  intelligence  which  will  prove  decisive  of  the  suc- 
cess or  failure  of  Abercrombie's  Expedition.  The  negotiation 
for  Peace,  which  still  goes  on,  tho'  like  the  asymptotes  con- 
tinually approaching  without  meeting,  will  then  be  brought  to  a 
conclusion. 

With  great  truth  very  sincerely,  &c. 

R.  K. 


1799]  L1FE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  445 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

May  10,  1801. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  enclosed  you  under  a  blank  cover  two  of  my  specula- 
tions on  the  tendency  of  the  new  doctrine  set  up  for  Neutrals. 
Whether  I  am  so  fortunate  as  to  convince  others  or  not  I  cer- 
tainly am  convinced  myself  of  the  truth  which  I  attempt  to 
maintain — I  wish  you  to  examine  Americanus  No.  4  &  if  you 
think  any  part  unsound  to  suggest  it  to  me. 

Brother  Ellsworth  gives  us  a  frightful  picture  of  Europe  &  a 
discouraging  one  of  England.  I  am  inclined  to  allow  a  little  in- 
fluence from  peculiar  circumstances  &  ill  health  upon  his  strong 
mind  but  am  obliged  to  confess  I  am  alarmed  lest  England  shou'd 
be  induced  to  yield  too  much.  .  .  .  Govr.  Strong  is  re-elected 
as  well  as  Gilman  &  Trumbull,  but  we  deteriorate  in  our  politics 
in  New  England  notwithstanding  these  favorable  events — our 
legislature  will  certainly  be  worse  composed  than  it  has  been  for 
many  years  &  may  perhaps  be  absolutely  Jacobinical.  Rhode  Isl- 
and is  as  bad  as  it  was  in  87  &  88.  We  are  anxious  for  New 
York  where  Hamilton  has  made  great  &  brilliant  efforts  in  favor 
of  Rensselaer  ;  our  reports  are  favorable  but  by  no  means  satisfac- 
tory. It  was  thought  by  some  well  informed  men  that  a  certain 
Diplomatic  Character  abroad  might  have  been  carried  with  cer- 
tainty had  he  been  on  the  spot.  I  wish  him  the  honor  &  the 
public  the  benefit  when  he  returns,  but  I  am  persuaded  his  ser- 
vices are  more  important  wThere  he  now  is.  I  am  not  well  pleased 
to  hear  that  you  are  disposed  to  return  &  I  hope  you  will  find 
motives  to  postpone  it  one  year  longer  at  least.  My  prayer  is,  & 
not  without  hope,  that  the  British  Sun  will  shine  brighter  &  in 
this  I  am  patriotic  as  well  as  pious  ;  for  altho'  I  am  frequently 
irritated  as  well  as  others  at  the  injuries  we  suffer  in  their  Colonial 
dominions,  yet  I  am  unwavering  in  my  belief  that  the  Naval 
superiority  of  G.  B.  is  the  best  security  against  the  power  & 
domineering  spirit   of  France. 

We  are  still  quiet  &  shall  remain  so — at  least  we  ought  to — 
Jefferson  will  experience  no  opposition  &  of  course  will  be  more 
circumspect — if  his  party  are  angry  they  will  support  him  in  any 
thing,  but  if  the  Country  is  cool  it  will  be  requisite  that  the 
administration  furnish  no  strong  &  obvious  ground  for  com- 
plaint. 


446  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Ellsworth  is  in  better  health  than  I  expected  to  see  him. — I  last 
evening  received  a  letter  from  you  of  the  8th  of  March  which  tho' 
not  so  late  as  our  Newspapers  by  three  weeks  contained  some  in- 
formation &  some  sentiments  which  give  me  pleasure.  I  had  two 
days  before  received  one  of  the  4th  of  March.  The  demand  of 
Neutrals,  or  of  others  in  their  name,  is  so  absurd  that  in  this 
country  where  it  has  been  always  popular  with  most  of  our  great 
men  &  all  others  it  is  growing  daily  into  discredit. 

Yours  affectionately  &  faithfully 

G.  C. 


CHAPTER  XXXI. 

Vargas  to  King — Cession  of  Louisiana  to  France   Result  of  Volney's  Sugges- 
tions— Possibly  to  be  used  as  a  Compensation  to  the  United  States  for 
Indemities  demanded — Lord  Buchan  to  King — Life  of  General  Washington 
— A.  Stephens  to  King — Wishes  to  write  a  Life — Has  Lord  Buchan's  and 
others'  Papers — King  to  Secretary  of  State — United  States  Frigates  in  the 
Mediterranean  may  check  Insolence  of  Barbary  States — To  Lord  Eldon — 
Urges  warmly  the  Resumption  and  Settlement  of  American  Affairs — To 
Secretary  of    State — Admiral   Parker   ordered  Home — Bill  for   Vice-Ad- 
miralty Courts  in  America — Sir  W.  Scott  to  King — Glad  he  approves  the 
Bill — Troup  to  King — Democracy  triumphs — Gallatin  Secretary  of  Treas- 
ury— An  Outrage — Sedgwick  to   King — Presidential  Election — Preferred 
Burr,  who  could  not  administer  Government  without  federal  Aid,  which  he 
could  only  get  by  preserving  their  System — Jefferson's  Principles  abso- 
lutely opposed  to  them — Hence  Burr  supported — Jefferson's  Speech  the 
Result  of  his  Timidity — His  Followers  disgusted — His  Attachment  to  his 
Friends  shown  by  violent  Removals  from  lucrative  Offices — Cabot  to  King 
— Regrets  he  is  disposed  to  resign — His  Opinions  have  generally  coincided 
with  those  of  his  Friends  at  Home — Troup  to  King — Lands  look  up — New 
York   prospering — Jefferson's   Removals  from  Office — Burr — Marriage  of 
his  Daughter — Hamilton's  small  Charges — Edward  Livingston's  Appoint- 
ment. 

M.  Vargas  to  R.  King. 

Londres,  io  Mai,  1801. 
Monsieur  : 

A  mon  depart  de  Paris,  il  y  a  plus  d'un   mois,  Mr.  Smith  me 

chargea  de  vous  communiquer  quelques   idees  relatives  aux  Et. 

Unis  de  1'  Amerique,  dont  les  details  sont  ci-adjoints  dans  un  papier 

separe.     Quelques    accidens,  et  une   maladie  assez   grave  m'ont 

empeche  d'arriver  ici  plus  tot.     A  peine  l'ai  je  fait  que  je  me  suis 

rendu  chez  vous  ;  mais  sachant  que  vous  etiez  a  la  campagne,  et 

ne    pouvant  m'y   transporter,  j'ai    l'honneur  de  vous  addresser, 

447 


448  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Monsieur,  cette  lettre  avec  la  note  ci-adjointe.     Je  serais  trop 
heureux  si  elle  peut  remplir  encore  les  vues  de  Mr.  Smith. 

En  attendant  je  suis  avec  le  plus  profond  respeet,  Monsieur? 
votre  tres  humble  Serviteur 

P.  Vargas. 

Reservee. 

Mr.  Smith  ayant  scu  la  nouvelle  de  la  cession  de  la  Louisiane  a 
la  France,  s'est  empresse  de  la  communiquer  a  Mr.  King  par  le 
moyen  de  Mr.  Shober,  qui  etait  sur  le  point  de  venir  en  Angle- 
terre.  Mr.  Smith  ayant  eu  une  occasion  casuelle  de  parler  au 
Citoyen  Volney  sur  les  affaires  de  l'Amerique,  celui-ci  lui  a  fait 
quelques  observations  generates  sur  la  disposition  des  habitans 
d'au  dela  des  Apalaches  pour  se  rendre  independant  du  reste  des 
Etats-Unis  ;  mais  qu'il  ne  paroissait  pas  nullement  dispose  a  croire 
que  la  France  devoit  s'en  immiscer.  Cependant  tout  le  monde 
s'accord  a  dire  que  c'est  en  consequence  du  plan  de  Volney  que 
la  France  a  demande  a  l'Espagne  la  cession  de  la  Louisiane. 

II  parait  que  le  resultat  du  dit  plan  doit  etre  la  compensation 
en  proprietes  territoriales  a  ceux  des  emigres  qui  ont  perdu  les 
siennes  en  Europe,  par  suite  de  la  revolution — Moyen  de  les 
eloigner  et  de  les  tranquilliser.  En  outre  de  ca  Fexportation  de 
planches,  goudron,  &c,  pour  les  services  de  la  marine  francaise. 

Ce  sont  les  bruits  publics,  mais  on  croit  que,  sous  main,  l'idee 
est  de  tenir  en  echec  l'accroissement  de  la  Republique  Americaine, 
et  peut-etre  de  bouleverser  les  Etats  du  Sud  en  ebraulant  la 
fidelite  des  negres,  &ca. 

Mr.  Smith  a  cru  que  etant  un  des  Americains,  ou  peut-etre  le 
seul  des  Americains,  plus  en  contact  avec  ceux  qui  approchent  le 
gouvernement  francais,  a  cru  qu'il  etait  de  son  devoir  de  faire 
quelques  efforts  particuliers  pour  empecher  l'establissement  de  ce 
nouveau  voisin  en  Amerique. 

A  cet  effet  il  y  a  en  quelques  conferences  avec  Mess.  Lafayette 
et  Dupont  qui  ont  vu  avec  peine  les  idees  du  Gouvernement 
francais  et  qui  ont  promis  a.  M.  Smith  de  le  seconder  par  le  moyen 
de  Joseph  Bonaparte  dont  ils  ont  quelque  confiance,  et  a  qui  ils 
ont  convenu  de  le  presenter. 

Mr.  Smith  avait  redige  en  consequence  un  memoire  tres  succint 
dont   le   sens   etait,   "  qu'il   etait   impolitique,   apres    les  plaintes 


1801]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  449 

recentes  des  Et.  Unis  et  apres  la  conclusion  d'un  traite,  d'alarmer 
de  nouveau  le  gouvernement  Americain  qui  reposait  tranquille 
sur  la  trempe  pacifique  de  l'Espagne,  et  dont  le  voisinage  ne 
causait  le  moindre  inquietude  qu'on  voyait  deja  dans  cette 
demarche  un  germe  de  soupcon  et  peut-etre  de  querelle  entre  les 
deux  Rep.  qui  obligerait  celle  de  l'Amerique  a  reserver  ses  liens 
avec  Angleterre.  Qu'il  y  avait  un  moyen  de  tranquilliser  les  E. 
U.  en  leur  donnat,  comme  objet  de  compensation  des  indemnites 
demandees,  la  possession  de  la  Louisiane,  dont  l'acquisition  pour 
la  france  etait  si  peu  de  chose  relativement  aux  objets  de  marine, 
et  dont  les  vues  pouvaient  etre  bien  remplis  par  rapport  aux 
emigres,  lesquels  pouvaient  etre  aussi  heureux  comme  sujets  de 
l'Amerique  que  de  la  france."  Ce  memoire  devait  etre  lu  a 
Joseph  Bonaparte  sous  peu  de  tems. 

C'etait  l'etat  des  choses  a  mon  depart.  Mr.  Smith  veut  que 
Mr.  King  soit  adverti,  en  outre,  que  le  General  Collaud  devait 
passer  incognito  aux  Et.  U.  pour  se  rendre  par  terre  a  la  Louisiane 
pour  y  attendre  une  escadre  avec  4000  grenadiers  qui  partira  de 
Brest  pour  prendre  possession  de  ce  pays  la. 

Si  Mr.  King  veut  empecher  les  idees  ambitieuses  de  la  france, 
il  peut  faire  ses  observations  a  Mr.  Otto  dans  l'intervalle  que 
l'Amerique  envoye  au  Agent  en  france.  Mr.  Smith  craint  d'autant 
plus  le  resultat  de  cette  affaire  que  le  gouvernement  actuel  de  la 
france,  est  tres  populaire,  ce  qui  n'etait  pas  le  cas  en  tems  du 
Directoire. 

Mais  il  laisse  a  la  consideration  de  Mr.  King  si  cette  nouvelle 
pourra  produire  quelque  bon  effet  relativement  a  l'independance 
de  l'Amerique  meridionale,  car  alors  tout  est  dit,  c'est  le  grand 
plan  auquel  tous  les  autres  doivent  ceder. 


Lord  Buchan  to  R.  King. 

Dryburgh  Abbey,  May  12th,  1801. 
Sir: 

I  am  desirous  that  the  example  of  my  late  honoured  and  illus- 
trious kinsman  and  Friend  General  Washington  may  be  rendered 
as  beneficial  as  possible  not  only  to  his  own  country  and  Nation, 
but  to  the  world  at  large,  and  with  this  view  I  have  encouraged 
Mr.  Stephens  of  Chelsea,  a  respectable  countryman  of  mine,  to 

VOL.  Ill — 29 


450  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

compile  such  materials  for  writing  the  life  of  the  General  as  he 

may  be  able  to  obtain,  and  as  may  tend  to  produce  the  good  of 

Society  as  well  as  the  display  of  Mr.  Washington's  Virtues  which 

are  very  dear  to  me. 

By  the  letter  which  I  have  written  to  Mr.  Stephens  on  this 

subject,  and  which  I  have  desired  him  to  communicate  to  you, 

you  will  see  what  it  is  I  have  in  view,  and  that  I  suppose  it  more 

probable  the  work  would  be  cleaner  wash'd  from  party  &  prejudice 

by  being  in  the  hands  of  a  distant  Philosopher  &  Scholar  than  in 

those  of  even  the  equally  competent  to  write  on  the  other  side  of 

the  Atlantic.     I  am  sir  with  much  regard  &  due  respect 

Yr.  obedt.  hble.  Servt. 

Buchan. 
American  Minister  at  London. 


Alexander  Stephens  to  R.  King. 

12  South  Parade,  Queen's  Elm,  Chelsea,  May  26,  1801. 
Sir: 

I  have  the  honour  to  enclose  you  a  letter  from  the  Earl  of 
Buchan,  an  accomplished  Nobleman,  who  has  dedicated  his  life 
to  literature  &  deems  himself  peculiarly  fortunate  in  having 
enjoyed  the  friendship  and  correspondence  of  your  illustrious 
Countryman  General  Washington. 

I  also  aspire,  Sir,  to  write  the  life  of  the  late  President  of  the 
United  States,*  and  my  principles  can  scarcely  be  misconceived, 
when  it  is  mentioned,  that  I  declined,  although  an  officer,  to  serve 
against  America,  while  gloriously  contending  for  her  just  rights. 

Lord  Buchan  has  presented  me  with  General  Washington's  cor- 
respondence with  him,  &  other  Noblemen  &  Gentlemen  have 
evinced  the  utmost  readiness  in  serving  me.  It  is  my  wish  to 
apply  to  you,  Sir,  &  through  you,  to  Mrs.  Washington,  for 
additional  information  &  materials  ;  for  this  purpose  I  shall  pay 
my  respects  to  you  in  person  &  in  the  meantime  I  have  the 
honour  to  be 

Your  Most  Humble  &  Obedient  Servant 

Alexander  Stephens. 
His  Excellency  Rufus  King,  Esq. 

*  There  is  no  answer  to  these  letters,  nor  does  it  appear  that  such  a  Life  was 
written. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  45 1 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  17. 

London,  May  15,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Lord  St.  Helens  has  sailed  for  Petersburgh,  to  which  Capitol 

Duroc,  aid-du-Camp  of  the  Chief  Consul  is  likewise  on  his  way. 
From  some  recent  communications  which  the  Emperor  of  Russia 
is  said  to  have  made  at  Copenhagen  upon  the  subject  of  the 
Northern  Confederacy,  it  does  not  seem  to  be  certain  that  Lord 
St.  Helens  may  not  meet  with  greater  difficulties  than  was  at  first 
expected  ;  the  influence  of  France  will  be  exerted  to  defeat  his 
views,  and  as  Russia  is  supposed  to  take  an  interest  in  the  Indem- 
nities to  be  made  in  Germany,  in  the  settlement  of  which  France 
will  have  something  to  say,  as  well  as  in  the  re-establishment  of 
the  King  of  Sardinia  and  the  security  of  the  South  of  Italy,  objects 
which  depend  entirely  upon  the  will  of  France,  this  influence  will 
be  very  considerable. 

The  Battle  of  the  21st  of  March,  in  which  the  English  were 
victorious,  though  they  lost  their  Commander  in  Chief,  it  is  here 
believed  will  enable  them  with  the  reinforcements  which  they  will 
receive  to  expel  the  French  from  Egypt. 

We  have  a  rumour  which  I  wish  may  prove  to  be  well  founded 
that  several  of  our  Frigates  are  on  their  passage  to  the  Mediter- 
ranean, where  our  Commerce,  according  to  Mr.  Cathcart's  infor- 
mation, is  again  exposed  to  the  Piracies  of  Tripoli  ;  by  blockading 
that  Port  and  cutting  off  its  Commerce,  the  Bey  may  find  it  his 
interest  to  become  more  reasonable,  and  the  example  would  have 
a  beneficial  influence  upon  the  other  Barbary  States. 

A  Sabre  which  was  sent  to  me  by  Mr.  Smith  several  months 
ago,  to  be  mounted  according  to  a  model  furnished  by  the  Bey  of 
Tunis,  is  completed  ;  it  costs  ^370.  sterling,  and  I  will  endeavour 
to  find  an  opportunity  to  send  it  to  Malta  to  the  care  of  some 
English  Officer  there,  to  be  delivered  to  the  Commander  of  any 
American  Frigate  which  may  call  at  Malta  to  forward  to  Mr. 
Eaton  by  a  safe  conveyance  from  Malta  to  Tunis. 

The  arms  and  Jewels  which  are  preparing  likewise,  as  a  Present 
to  the  Bey  of  Tunis,  may  perhaps  be  forwarded  to  Malta  by  an 
English  Frigate  to  be  disposed  of  in  like  manner  as  the  Sabre. 
If  they  go  by  a  private  vessel,  I  shall  order  them  to  be  insured, 
a  precaution  that  will  be  omitted,  if  they  are  sent  by  a  Frigate. 
With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  Rufus  King. 


452  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

R.  King  to  Lord  Eldon. 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  May  18,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  had  the  honour  to  receive  your  Lordship's  obliging 
Letter  of  the  7th  instant  and  should  not  so  soon  think  of  recalling 
to  your  recollection  the  subject  to  which  it  relates,  were  I  not 
strongly  impressed  with  the  impolicy  of  any  farther  delay  in 
bringing  it  to  a  conclusion.  It  is  now  more  than  two  years  since 
this  negotiation  was  begun,  and  upwards  of  six  months  that  the 
specific  propositions,  which  your  Lordship  has  lately  received, 
have  been  before  his  Majesty's  Government.  Lord  Grenville  gave 
me  reason  to  expect  that  this  business  would  have  been  adjusted 
during  the  Christmas  holidays,  and  the  communication  which  I 
made  to  my  Government  corresponded  with  this  expectation  ; 
tho'  I  have  been  fully  aware  of  the  disadvantages,  which  we  have 
suffered  from  the  unsettled  state  of  this  negotiation,  I  have  re- 
spected the  urgent  engagements  of  his  Majesty's  ministers,  in  the 
belief,  that  the  affairs  of  America  would  be  taken  up  and  decided 
when  the  pressure  of  other  public  business  had  a  little  subsided. 

The  favourable  changes  which  have  of  late  occurred,  seem  to 
me  to  offer  the  occasion  we  have  been  waiting  for,  and  I  cannot 
help  thinking  that  our  turn  has  in  fact  arrived  ;  should  your 
Lordship  think  so  likewise,  I  am  persuaded  that  our  negotiation 
may  be  speedily  and  satisfactorily  concluded. 

With  the  highest  respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  18. 

London,  19  May,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Though  Captain  Pellew  of  the  English  Frigate  Cleopatra  was 
recalled,  as  I  sometime  ago  informed  you,  Admiral  Parker  who 
commands  on  the  Halifax  Station,  and  whose  conduct  has  in 
other  instances  been  exceptionable  in  not  restraining  the  plunder- 
ing spirit  of  the  Officers  under  his  command,  permitted  him  to 
proceed  to  the  West  Indies  instead  of  returning  to  England. 
For  this  disobedience,  joined  to  the  persuasion  that  he  has  par- 
ticipated too  much  in   the  avaricious  passions  of  his  subordinate 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  453 

officers,  the  Admiral  also  is  ordered  home  ;  and  the  command 
upon  that  station  will  devolve  upon  Captain  Douglass.  Orders 
have  followed  Pellew  to  the  West  Indies  to  return  to  England. 

Enclosed  I  send  you  a  Copy  of  the  Bill  concerning  the  Eng- 
lish Vice-Admiralty  Courts  in  America.  If  you  have  ever  at- 
tended to  the  proceedings  of  these  Courts  and  those  of  the  Court 
of  Appeals,  you  will  find  that  the  Bill  will  work  a  very  important 
Reform.  I  am  endeavouring  to  procure  the  addition  of  two 
other  regulations  ;  one  requiring  that  all  detained  vessels  be  sent 
into  the  Islands  where  the  Courts  are  established  ;  that  the  pro- 
ceeds of  captured  vessels  shall  in  no  instance  go  into  the  hands 
of  the  Captors  or  their  Agents,  until  it  shall  have  been  definitely 
adjudged  to  belong  to  them  as  good  Prize.  The  former  Regula- 
tion would  prevent  the  delay  and  expense  of  sending  the  ship's 
papers  or  their  copies  from  one  Island  to  another  ;  the  latter 
would  destroy  the  motives  of  the  captors  to  defer  the  trial,  in 
order  to  enjoy  the  use  of  the  Property  ;  and  both  would  operate 
to  discourage  the  Privateers  of  Bermuda,  the  Bahamas  and 
other  Islands  which  lose  their  Courts  of  Vice-Admiralty. 
With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


Sir  Wm.  Scott  to  R.  King. 

May  21,  1801. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  am  glad  you  approve  the  Bill  (for  the  Regulation  of  the  Vice- 
Admiralty  Courts)  generally.  It  is  my  sincere  wish  that  it  may 
be  such  as  on  a  fair  and  dispassionate  consideration  between  the 
countries  you  wd.  approve. 

I  can  assure  you  that  I  expressed  in  our  last  conversation  my 
own  favorite  idea  that  the  Cruizers  might  be  compelled  to  carry- 
in  their  Prizes  to  those  Islands  only,  where  the  Jurisdiction  is 
established.  I  hope  I  am  not  violating  official  Confidence  when 
I  say  Mr.  Nepean  can  inform  you  with  what  Ardour  I  preferred 
it,  and  how  I  entered  my  Protest  against  the  danger  &  Incon- 
veniences that  may  ensue,  when  I  was  finally  &  determinedly  as- 
sured that  the  Exigencies  of  the  Public  Naval  Service  would  in 
no  degree  admit  of  it.  It  is  solely  on  your  account  that  I  was 
anxious  to  obtain  a  different  Rule  to  be  adopted  ;  I  dread  the 


454  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Hazard  of  Constitutional  Questions  between  us  and  the  disin- 
herited Colonies.  But  you  will  be  so  good  as  to  remember  that 
all  I  have  to  do,  is  to  represent  or  (perhaps)  remonstrate  to  Gov- 
ernment, and  after  they  have  taken  their  Resolution,  to  carry  it 
into  effect  in  the  best  manner  I  am  able. 

Your  Intimation  respecting  Sales  of  Cargoes  shall  be  taken  into 
honest  &  deliberate  Consideration  before  the  Bill  goes  into  Com- 
mittee.    I  thank  you  very  much  for  your  American  News. 

I  am,  my  dear  Sir, 

Very  faithfully  yours, 

W.  Scott. 

The  Bill  is  read  a  2nd  time  tomorrow  (friday) — and  will  be 
then  ordered  for  the  Committee  against  I  come  to  town  from  vis- 
iting my  Constituents  at  Oxford  during  the  Holiday  week,  being 
my  only  opportunity  of  paying  my  Respects  to  them  upon  my 
election. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  22  May,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Democracy  has  obtained  at  our  late  election  a  complete 
triumph  over  us.  The  revolution  in  the  public  mind  has  even 
astonished  the  leaders  of  that  party.  Clinton  will  be  our  Governor 
by  a  decided  majority.  In  this  city  we  failed  in  getting  a  majority 
of  even  freehold  votes  ;  a  thing  that  has  never  happened  before. 

Gallatin  is  at  length  officially  announced  to  us  as  Secretary  of 
the  Treasury — an  appointment  by  all  virtuous  and  enlightened 
men  amongst  us  considered  as  a  violent  outrage  on  the  virtue  and 
respectability  of  our  country  ;  you  know  his  history.     .     .     . 

Yrs.  R.  T. 


T.  Sedgwick  to  R.  King. 

Stockbridge,  24  May,  1801. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  reed,  a  letter  from  you  without  date  or  signature. — I 
wrote  to  you  at  the  commencement  and  at  the  close  of  the  last  ses- 
sion.   With  the  last  I  wrote  also  to  Messrs.  Gore  and  Sitgreaves.* 

*  This  letter  is  not  found. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  455 

If  these  letters,  which  went  by  a  Merchant  ship  from  Phila.  should 
have  miscarried  I  shall  regret  it,  because  they  contained  an  expo- 
sition of  the  motives  which  governed  the  federalists  during  the 
session,  and  particularly  in  the  election  of  a  President. 

You  know  my  opinion  of  the  two  candidates,  and  it  was  not 
suddenly  that  I  determined  which  to  prefer.  It  was  evident  that 
Burr  did  not  possess  the  confidence  of  his  own  party,  &  that  he 
was  selected  as  a  candidate,  not  from  affection,  but  because  it  was 
supposed  his  influence  was  indispensably  necessary  to  secure  the 
votes  of  the  electors  of  New  York,  which  votes,  it  was  foreseen, 
were  essential  to  their  success.  When  it  was  known  that  he  had 
acquired  an  equal  number  of  votes  with  Mr.  Jefferson  the  party 
did  not  conceal,  nor  attempt  to  conceal,  their  disgust  and  aversion. 
Of  this  Burr  could  not  be  ignorant  and  hence  it  was  believed,  that 
he  would  be  sensible  of  the  difficulty,  if  not  impossibility,  of  ad- 
ministering the  government  without  federal  aid  ;  and  this  he  could 
not  expect  to  receive  without  giving  his  support  to  the  preserva- 
tion of  those  systems  which  the  federalists  thought  necessary  for 
the  public  prosperity.  On  the  other  hand  Jefferson  was  believed 
to  be  a  sincere  Democrat — hostile  to  the  principles  of  our  consti- 
tution, and  the  measures  of  the  administration — desirous  of 
conforming  in  practice  to  the  imbecile  principles  of  the  old  con- 
federation, a  confederation  whose  measures  would  be  directed  by 
the  arrogance  of  Virginia  aided  by  those  states  which  looked  up 
to  her  with  servile  submission.  It  was  believed  that  he  had  given 
evidence  of  an  entire  devotion  to  france  under  every  form  of  her 
government,  and  that  under  the  dominion  of  this  political  passion, 
aided  by  a  rancorous  hatred  to  G.  B.,  he  might  involve  the  country 
in  war  with  the  latter,  &  what  is  worse  form  an  intimate  and  sub- 
ordinate connection  with  the  former.  We  knew,  possessing  as  he 
did  the  full  confidence  of  his  party,  he  had  means,  which  his  rival 
wanted,  to  carry  into  effect  mischievous  designs  which  he  might 
entertain.  On  the  other  hand  Burr  was  secured  against  the  evils 
resulting  from  local  or  personal  attachments  or  aversions,  being 
guarded  by  his  selfishness  against  them.  I  cannot  go  into  a  detail 
of  the  reasonings  which  produced  a  unanimous  determination 
among  the  federalists  of  the  house  to  support  Mr.  Burr.  The 
above  hints  may  afford  materials  for  your  reflections  on  this  sub- 
ject.    It  would  be  still  more  beyond  my  power  to  give  you  an 


456  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

intelligible  relation  of  those  untoward  events  by  which  our  inten- 
tions were  defeated — I  am,  indeed,  restrained  from  doing  it  by 
other  considerations  than  merely  that  the  relation,  by  its  length, 
would  fatigue  me  and  disgust  you.  When  I  see  you  and  I  hope  I 
shall  enjoy  that  pleasure  it  shall  be  the  occupation  of  a  leisure 
morning  or  evening. 

The  conciliatory  speech  of  Mr.  Jefferson  at  the  time  of  his  in- 
auguration was  the  effect  which  the  strong  opposition  made,  by 
the  federalists,  to  his  election,  produced  from  his  timidity.  When 
to  him  Burr  was  preferred  by  all,  and  when  the  greater  part  to  the 
last  would  risk  every  consequence  rather  than  he  should  be  Presi- 
dent, he  was  sensible  that  the  federal  mind  contemplated  that 
event  with  horror.  Hence  he  was  disposed  to  conciliate  and  to 
soothe  ;  and  hence  he  spoke  of  federal  measures  &  federal  men 
with  respect.  This  disgusted,  beyond  expression,  the  leaders  of 
his  own  party  ;  because  it  gave  the  lie  to  all  those  slanderous  mis- 
representations by  which  his  election  had  been  secured.  To  rein- 
state himself  in  their  good  graces  it  was  necessary  to  give  serious 
proof  of  his  attachment,  and  this  he  has  done  by  the  most  violent 
removals  from  offices  which  are  lucrative  to  the  federal  possessors 
and  filling  them  with  furious  democrats.  The  wit  of  man  could 
probably  devise  no  measure  more  fitted  to  render  party  animosi- 
ties incurable.  This  is  "  healing  the  wounds  of  party  divisions  " 
with  a  witness. 

The  federalists  in  the  state  of  New  York  were  confident  that 
they  should  elect  Mr.  Van  Rensselaer  as  Governor,  but  they  now 
confess  that  Clinton  is  chosen  by  a  great  majority.  The  system 
of  general  expulsion,  first  instituted  by  McKean,  will  be  there 
practised  with  rigor.  That  we  have  succeeded  in  choosing  Mr. 
Strong  in  this  state  is  a  fortunate  event,  and  beyond  the  expecta- 
tion of  many  of  his  friends.  At  all  events  we  shall  remain  tolera- 
bly safe  another  year.  Indeed  in  my  opinion  the  federal  party  is 
here,  at  present,  rather  increasing.  In  this  County,  at  the  late 
election  of  a  member  of  Congress,  Bacon  had  a  majority  of  more 
than  900.  This  was  the  beginning  of  March.  In  April  the  ma- 
jority for  Gerry,  &  there  never  was  a  more  strenuous  effort  made, 
was  less  than  200. 

At  the  time  I  declined  being  a  candidate  to  the  House  of  Rep- 
resentatives, I  had  not  the  least  doubt  that  Mr.  Williams  the  federa 


801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  457 


candidate  would  have  been  elected.  Had  I  foreseen  the  event 
which  has  taken  place  I  would  not  have  declined.  Yet  nothing 
could  have  been  more  painful  to  me  than  to  have  continued  longer 
a  member  of  Congress,  excepting  exactly  what  has  taken  place. 

An  effort  has  been  made  in  Connecticut  to  displace  our  old 
friend  Governor  Trumbull,  but  from  all  accounts  I  am  confident 
that  his  majority  was  never  so  great.  That  is  the  only  state  where 
the  election  of  Jefferson  has  decreased  the  influence  of  his  friends 
and  the  number  of  his  party.  Should,  however,  the  Democrats 
get  possession  of  the  government  of  Massachusetts  I  have  no 
doubt  that  soon  all  New  England  will  follow  her  example. 

I  am  sincerely  &  affectionately  yours, 

TS. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 


May  25,  1S01. 


My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  We  all  regret  that  you  are  disposed  to  leave  your  office. 
Altho'  a  majority  thinks  wrong  upon  the  subject  yet  our  best  men 
are  more  decided  than  ever  in  their  opinion  that  this  Country  has 
a  great  interest  in  the  success  of  England  against  France.  Men 
are  compelled  to  see  that  England  alone  has  resisted  the  most 
terrible  power  that  ever  appeared  &  has  prevented  the  final  over- 
throw of  whatever  is  good  to  society.  .  .  .  Jacobinism  gains 
ground  in  the  U.  S.  &  threatens  New  England  with  its  missive. 
Already  I  hear  many  men  complain  that  our  systems  must  be 
purged  of  their  excessive  democratic  characters  or  we  shall  be 
ruined.  I  shall  tell  Ames  of  T.  Paine's  unhappy  fate  but  I  don't 
believe  he  will  take  warning.  I  have  no  doubt  he  will  consent 
that  you  shou'd  cross  the  channel  in  full  expectation  that  if  you 
leave  your  good  sense  behind  you,  you  will  resume  it  upon  your 
return.  It  has  been  among  our  few  consolations  to  find  that  your 
opinions  have  in  the  main  perfectly  coincided  with  ours  thro'  a 
period  in  which  we  have  been  sometimes  supported  by  too  few  on 
this  side  the  water.  I  have  said  "  in  the  main  "  because  possibly 
local  causes  may  for  a  moment  have  prevented  us  from  seeing  an 
object  in  the  same  light.     The  affairs  of  Nations  often  appear 


458  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 


best  when  seen  from  a  distant  position  ;  you  may  therefore  have 
thought  our  condition  better  &  that  of  England  worse  than  we 
have  thought  them.  Whether  the  British  Nation  is  so  organised 
as  to  use  all  its  means  is  a  difficult  question  to  solve,  but  if  it  can 
I  am  persuaded  it  can  continue  the  war  without  impoverishment 
until  its  Enemies  wou'd  of  necessity  make  a  safe  peace. 

Yours  truly 

G.  C. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  May  27,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Governor  Jay  goes  out  of  his  office  much  gratified. 
We  have  taken  pains,  by  public  expressions  of  our  gratitude  for 
his  services,  to  sweeten  his  recollection  of  his  political  life.  At  the 
same  time  it  is  conceded  by  all  his  friends  that  his  reputation  has 
not  gained  by  the  administration  of  the  government.     .     .     . 

Lands  by  the  by  begin  to  look  up.  Last  week  100  acre  military 
lots  were  sold  at  auction  for  20  percent  down  and  the  residue  in 
30  days  for  14/  per  acre ;  and  Genessee  lands,  the  quality  of 
which  was  not  known  were  sold  for  7/3  and  7/7  on  the  same 
terms.  The  country  is  filling  up  fast  and  wheat  for  two  years 
past  has  been  fluctuating  from  13/  to  18/  a  bushel.  Go  where 
you  will,  you  behold  nothing  but  the  smiling  face  of  improvements 
and  prosperity.  This  City  is  still  progressing  with  astonishing 
rapidity  !  Upon  your  return  you  will  be  agreeably  surprised  to 
see  the  change  for  the  better  during  your  absence.  Broadway 
now  presents  one  of  the  most  delightful  spectacles  in  all  proba- 
bility in  the  world  !  The  walks  on  both  sides  are  pretty  generally 
planted  with  trees.  All  the  vacant  lots  are  filled  up  (except  one) 
with  handsome  houses  ;  and  the  open  and  extensive  view  of  the 
water  charms  me  whenever  I  step  from  my  door.  It  seems  against 
all  calculations  that  such  a  situation  should  be  a  hotbed  for  the 
yellow  fever.  At  present  I  discover  no  apprehensions  even  that 
this  dreadful  scourge  is  again  to  visit  us  this  season.     .     .     . 

We  all  believe  that  it  is  not  Mr.  Jefferson's  present  plan  to  super- 
sede you.     Mr.  Morris  seems  confident  he  will  not  do  it.     And 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  459 

yet  the  course  thus  far  pursued  by  Mr.  Jefferson  with  regard  to 
removals  has  strong  marks  of  an  entire  devotion  to  party. 

No  doubt  is  entertained  that  the  next  House  of  Representatives 
will  be  democratic,  and  it  is  believed  by  many  that  the  Senate  is 
now  poised  and  that  Burr  will  of  course  decide  the  majority.  If 
this  be  not  the  case,  it  is  very  nearly  so.  I  see  nothing,  therefore, 
to  prevent  Jefferson  and  his  democratic  friends  from  having  the 
complete  possession  of  the  general  government,  and  I  am  content 
that  their  skill  and  patriotism  should  be  put  to  the  test.  The 
Chancellor  expects  soon  to  embark  for  France.  .  .  .  His 
quitting  the  Court  of  Chancery  is  a  comfortable  relief  to  us  !  He 
is  now  so  deaf  that,  as  a  judge,  he  may  be  truly  said  to  be  deaf 
to  the  voice  of  Justice  !  With  all  my  bawling  I  could  hardly 
make  him  hear  me.  At  Buonaparte's  table  his  situation  must  be 
delightful  to  himself  and  the  company.  One  of  his  sons  will  be 
obliged  constantly  to  sit  alongside  of  him  and  cry  out,  Mr.  Liv- 
ingston— Mr.  Livingston — Mr.  Livingston  !  Citizen  sans  culottes 
speaks  to  you !     .     .     . 

The  citizen  Vice-President  is  still  among  us.  He  has  been 
going  for  near  a  month  to  Charleston  to  see  his  daughter,  who 
last  winter  married  a  Mr.  Allston — a  young  Carolinian  of  large 
fortune.  His  person  is  ordinary — his  manner  pedantic — his  tem- 
per not  very  soft — his  politics  violent  on  the  democratic  side — 
and  his  opinions  savor  much  of  the  conceit  and  imperiousness 
of  the  old  dominion.  It  is  understood  here  that  the  marriage 
was  an  affair  of  Burr,  and  not  of  his  daughter,  and  that  the  money 
in  question  was  the  predominating  motive.  Mrs.  Allston  is  a  hand- 
some round  faced  and  black  eyed  woman,  but  much  under  size. 
Her  acquaintance  say  her  reading  has  been  wholly  masculine, 
that  she  is  an  utter  stranger  to  the  use  of  the  needle,  and  quite 
unskilled  in  the  different  branches  of  domestic  economy. 

Burr  is  an  enigma  that  we  cannot  decypher.  His  present  office 
has  drawn  him  from  the  Bar,  where  his  practice  (from  the  enor- 
mous fees  he  was  accustomed  to  take)  was  very  lucrative  ;  and 
no  person  doubts  that  his  salary  does  not  pay  the  interest  of  the 
money  he  owes.  As  a  proof  of  his  enormous  charging  as  a  law- 
yer, I  give  you  the  following  instance.  In  the  famous  case  of 
Le  Guen  vs.  Gouverneur  Kemble,  he  was  assistant  counsel  with 
Hamilton,  who  was  the  leading   counsel  and  whose  talents  and 


460  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 

influence  we  all  know  pushed  the  cause  through.  Hamilton*  would 
take  no  more  than  $2500  for  his  services,  and  Burr  (having  got 
previous  loans  from  the  Frenchman)  worked  him  out  of  about 
$6000. 

We  are  told  and  we  believe  that  Jefferson  and  he  hate  each 
other  ;  and  Hamilton  thinks  that  Jefferson  is  too  cunning  to  be 
outwitted  by  him.  At  the  breaking  up  of  Congress  in  the  spring, 
Burr  told  a  member,  a  friend  of  ours,  that  Jefferson  had  not  con- 
sulted him  on  the  subject  of  appointments  or  measures  and  he 
hoped  he  would  not.  And  yet  it  is  difficult  to  account  for  the 
appointment  of  Swartwout  to  the  office  of  Marshall  of  this  district, 
but  through  the  influence  of  Burr  with  Jefferson.  Swartwout  is 
notoriously  the  runner  and  tool  of  Burr  on  all  occasions,  but  is 
not  generally  known  even  in  this  City.  How  could  he  have  been 
known  to  Jefferson  unless  by  Burr's  recommendation  ? 

It  was  generally  supposed  that  Burr  had  a  hand  in  Edward  Liv- 
ingston's appointment  to  the  office  of  District  Attorney  in  the  place 
of  Harrison,  as  Livingston  was  doubtless  one  of  Burr's  confidential 
agents  to  manoeuvre  him  into  the  Presidency.  But  the  member 
of  Congress  above  alluded  to  is  of  opinion  that  Livingston's  ap- 
pointment was  a  part  of  the  price  given  to  purchase  Livingston's 
vote  for  Jefferson's  election.  He  adds  that  if  Livingston  had  not 
betrayed  his  trust,  Burr  would  certainly  have  been  President. 

.  .  .  The  truth  is  that,  independent  of  other  considerations  the 
Chancellor  wrote  a  very  peremptory  letter  to  his  brother  Edward 
on  the  subject  of  an  alarm  which  Hamilton  gave  the  Chancellor 
for  the  purpose.  Pains  were  taken  to  inform  Jefferson  of  the 
plots  and  manoeuvres  against  him,  and  hence  it  is  concluded  that 
there  is,  and  can  be,  no  cordiality  between  them. 

Jefferson  told  the  member  of  Congress  referred  to  that  it  was 
his  determination  to  make  no  displacements  ;  but  that  when 
vacancies  occurred,  he  should  fill  up  with  his  friends  till  the 
scales  of  office  were  poised  ;  and  then  he  should  give  an  equal 

*  Le  desinteressement  en  matiere  d'argent,  rare  partout,  plus  rare  en  Amerique, 
est  un  des  traits  les  plus  universellement  reconnus  du  caractere  de  M.  Hamilton 
et  quoique  sa  profession  actuelle  soit  tres-lucrative.  J'entends  dire  a  ses  clients 
que  leur  seule  contestation  avec  lui  est  sur  la  modicite  des  honoraires  qu'il  leur 
demande. —  Voyages  dans  les  Etats  Unis  d'Ame'rique,  vol.  vii.,  150.  Par  La 
Rochefoucauld  Liancourt. 


l8oi]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  46 1 

hand  to  both  parties.     This   decision  has  been  grossly   departed 
from  as  I  have  already  shewn. 

Jefferson's  inaugural  speech  has  had  a  wonderful  lullaby  effect. 
I  do  not  apprehend  the  serious  mischiefs  from  his  administration 
that  have  been  foretold  ;  but  my  opinion  is,  that  it  will  be  the 
little  contemptible  thing  that  grows  of  a  trimming  system  and  a 
studied  adherence  to  popular  notions.  Hamilton  is  persuaded 
that  neither  Jefferson  nor  his  friends  have  sufficient  skill  or 
patriotism  to  conduct  the  political  vessel  in  the  tempestuous  sea 
of  liberty.  Since  the  V.  President's  return  from  Washington, 
after  the  adjournment  of  Congress,  I  have  been  to  pay  my  respects 
to  him  and  he  has  returned  the  visit.  .  .  He  told  me  that  the 
members  of  Congress  were  so  dissatisfied  with  their  accommoda- 
tions at  Washington  the  last  winter,  that  they  were  within  an  ace 
of  adjourning  to  this  city  ;  and  he  thinks  nothing  prevented  the 
measure  but  the  address  of  Mrs.  Law  and  a  few  other  ladies  who 
reside  at  Washington.  Mr.  Jefferson,  however,  is  doing  every 
thing  he  can  to  induce  a  continuance  of  the  government  at  Wash- 
ington, and  I  presume  he  will  succeed.  Prodigious  clamors  are 
made  against  the  place  !     .     .     . 

Adieu, 

R.  T. 

P.  S.  A  squadron  is  now  on  the  point  of  sailing  under  Cap. 
Dale  from  Hampton  Roads  for  the  Mediterranean  in  quest  of  the 
Algerines.  Truxton  was  to  have  had  the  command  of  the  squad- 
ron, but  it  is  said  he  would  not  consent  to  go  without  having  leave 
to  fight  if  he  saw  fit,  and  without  having  his  vessels  better 
manned. 

We  have  a  new  President  of  our  College  in  this  City.  He  is  a 
Dr.  Wharton,  an  episcopal  clergyman  settled  at  Burlington  in  Jer- 
sey. He  was  bred  a  Jesuit,  and  some  years  ago  renounced  the 
Roman  Catholic  faith.  He  is  of  the  Carrol  family  in  Maryland.  I 
hear  him  spoken  of  as  an  excellent  scholar  and  as  a  man  of  genteel 
manners.  Dr.  Johnson  left  the  college  about  a  year  ago  under 
embarrassments  arising  from  the  land  speculations  of  his  sons. 
These  embarrassments  are  said  to  continue.  He  is  again  settled 
in  Connecticut. 


462  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 


Mr.  King's  Memorandum  Book. 

May  24. 

I  suggested  to  him  (Mr.  Addington)  the  aid  of  England  might  be 
given  to  us  with  the  Barbary  Powers  by  her  influence  with  them  as 
well  as  with  the  Porte — He  expressed  a  disposition  to  afford  us 
their  aid,  said  our  frigates  shd.  be  supplied  at  Malta,  Minorca  & 
Gib.,  shewed  me  a  letter  just  received  from  Sir  Wm.  Pulteney 
advising  great  moderation  towards  America  and  the  sending 
thither  an  Ambassador  with  a  large  salary.  Mr.  Addington  asked 
me  if  such  a  measure  wd.  disserve  England.  I  answered  not  if 
the  character  was  a  fit  one,  &c.     .     .     . 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

King  to  Addington — Complaint  of  Abuses  to  American  Vessels  brought  into 
English  Ports — To  Lord  Hawkesbury — Illegal  Proceedings  in  Vice- 
Admiralty  Court  in  Gibraltar — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Question  of 
Debts  in  the  Cabinet — Addington's  liberal  Views  on  this  and  other  pending 
Matters — Hopes  of  a  speedy  Decision  on  them — King  to  Troup — Peace  the 
earnest  Wish  of  Ministers — Probable  Convention  limiting  the  Right  of 
Search — To  Secretary  of  State — Letter  from  Lord  Hawkesbury  Relative  to 
Depredations  in  West  Indies — Conference,  among  other  Topics,  on  Cession 
of  Louisiana  to  France — His  strong  Feeling  against  it — We  preferred  it  in 
the  Hands  of  Spain  or  transferred  to  United  States — Report  of  King's 
Advocate  on  Vice-Admiralty  Courts — King  to  Secretary  of  State — The  King 
attends  to  Business — Affairs  in  Egypt — Probable  Peace  between  England 
and  Northern  Powers — Threatened  French  Invasion  of  England — Har- 
vests good — King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — By  President's  Direction  he 
presses  the  Settlement  of  the  Reform  of  the  Prize  Courts  in  Wrest  Indies — 
H.  Lee  to  King — Expressions  of  Friendship  and  Regard — Begins  to  doubt 
Jefferson's  professed  Moderation — King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Demands 
the  Discharge  of  an  American  Shipmaster  because  not  liable  for  Charge 
against  him  in  an  English  Court — To  Lord  Eldon — Asking  if  he  has  given, 
as  promised,  his  Opinions  on  the  Debts,  etc. — To  Lord  Hawkesbury  about 
Cunningham  the  American  Shipmaster — Bird,  Savage,  and  Bird  to  King — 
General  Allen's  Affairs — King  to  Addington — Urging  him  to  bring  the 
Questions  pending  before  the  Cabinet — To  the  Secretary  of  State — Parlia- 
ment prorogued — Law  regulating  Prize  Courts  passed — French  Government 
may  not  ratify  the  Convention  with  United  States. 

R.  King  to  J.  H.  Addington,  Esq. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  May  26,  1801. 
Sir: 

I  take  the  liberty  through  you  to  represent  to  the  Lord  Com- 
missioners of  the  Treasury  the  abuse,  which  has  of  late  become 
frequent  in  the  Ports  of  England,  and  especially  at  Portsmouth, 

463 


464  RLFUS  KING.  [1801 

of  obliging  vessels  detained  and  sent  into  Port  by  his  Majesty's 
Cruizers  upon  frivolous  pretences,  and  which  are  afterwards  re- 
leased, to  pay  the  Light  and  Tonnage  Duties  payable  only  by 
vessels  which  voluntarily  and  for  purposes  of  business  enter  the 
ports  of  England.  The  interruption  of  such  vessels  in  their  regu- 
lar voyages  is  attended  with  very  considerable  losses,  which  on 
many  occasions,  ought  to  be,  though  they  very  rarely  are,  com- 
pensated by  their  Captors.  But  the  injury  is  enhanced  by  the 
demand  of  Duties,  which  upon  no  principle  of  justice  should  be 
made  in  cases  so  circumstanced. 

The  American  Cartel  Ship,  Benjamin  Franklin,  detained  and 
sent  into  Portsmouth  by  his  Majesty's  Ship  the  Loire,  and  upon 
my  application  discharged  by  the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty,  has  as 
you  will  perceive  by  the  enclosed  communication,  made  to  me  by 
Mr  Villers  the  Supercargo,  been  recently  compelled  to  submit  to 
these  unreasonable  Demands. 

I  beg  the  favour  of  you,  Sir,  to  lay  this  complaint  before  the 
Lords  Commissioners  of  the  Treasury,  in  the  persuasion  that  their 
Lordships  will  adopt  such  measures  as  may  be  deemed  efficacious 
to  put  an  end  to  these  exactions  in  future. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  May  26,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

It  is  my  duty  to  represent  to  your  Lordship  the  irregular  and 
injurious  proceedings  of  his  Majesty's  Judge  of  Vice-Admiralty 
at  Gibraltar,  in  holding  trials  on  American  property  not  within 
the  jurisdiction  of  his  Court  ;  as  well  as  to  complain  of  the  long 
and  oppressive  detention  of  American  Vessels  captured  by  the 
public  and  private  armed  ships  of  Great  Britain,  and  sent  into 
the  Port  of  Lisbon. 

The  enclosed  Protest  of  the  Master  of  the  American  Brigatine 
Susannah,  exhibits  one  of  the  several  instances  which  have 
occurred  of  this  double  irregularity. 

The  Susannah  was  taken  in  the  bay  of  Cadiz  by  the  Privateer 


1801]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  465 

La  Mouche,  Robert  Blair  Commander,  and  sent  into  the  Port  of 
Lisbon,  where  she  was  detained  upwards  of  five  months,  and  dur- 
ing such  detention  tried  and  condemned  in  the  Vice-Admiralty 
Court  of  Gibraltar. 

Upon  every  known  principle  upon  which  civil  Law  Courts  pro- 
ceed this  trial  was  irregular,  the  vessel  not  being  within  or  sub- 
ject to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  ;  and  it  is  not  obvious  how 
this  proceeding  can  be  materially  distinguished  from  the  irregu- 
larity, which  during  the  present  war  has  been  practised  by  an- 
other Belligerent  Power,  and  against  which  Great  Britain  justly 
and  efficaciously  remonstrated,  that  of  erecting  Prize  Courts  with- 
in the  territorial  jurisdiction  of  Neutral  States  ;  for  it  must  be  in- 
different in  respect  to  the  acknowledged  principles  applicable  to 
this  subject,  as  well  as  to  those  whose  property  may  be  affected, 
whether  the  tribunal  is  carried  by  fiction  to  the  thing  concerning 
which  it  may  adjudicate,  or  the  thing  is  brought  by  a  like  fiction 
to  the  tribunal. 

The  ancient  law  of  Europe,  and  the  observance  of  which  pro- 
tected the  mutual  independence,  as  well  as  the  peace  of  nations, 
made  it  necessary  that  property  taken  as  prize  on  the  high  seas, 
should  be  carried  for  adjudication  within  the  territory  of  the 
nation  to  which  the  captor  belonged  ;  and  if  this  rule,  doubtless 
founded  in  public  reason,  was  universally  observed  in  former  cen- 
turies, how  much  more  necessary  has  it  become  vigorously  to 
enforce  it  in  modern  times,  when  Commerce  is  so  widely  ex- 
tended and  the  security  of  its  Rights  forms  so  important  a  branch 
of  the  essential  Duty  of  every  nation. 

It  is  not  the  violation  of  a  barren  Right  against  which  the 
Representation  is  aimed  ;  the  injury  complained  of  is  accom- 
panied by  positive  and  very  considerable  Damages.  The  Gov- 
ernment of  Portugal  declines  all  interference  in  respect  to  vessels 
in  this  situation  ;  and  as  neither  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty 
nor  the  Vice-Admiralty  Court  at  Gibraltar  possesses  any  juris- 
diction over  property  within  the  Dominions  of  Portugal,  the  con- 
sequence is  that  the  owners  of  neutral  vessels  are  left  to  the  jus- 
tice of  the  Captors,  and  in  some  instances  compelled  to  give 
money,  and  in  others  to  submit  to  disadvantageous  compromises 
in  order  to  ransom  themselves  and  their  property  from  indefinite 
Detention. 

VOL.    III. — 30 


466  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

I  cannot  avoid,  my  Lord,  on  this  occasion  attempting  to 
strengthen  my  Demand  of  a  prompt  and  effectual  correction  of 
these  abusive  Irregularities  by  recalling  to  your  Lordships'  recol- 
lection the  decided  manner  in  which  the  American  Government 
early  in  the  present  war,  and  upon  the  Representation  of  his 
Majesty's  Minister  in  the  United  States,  interposed  its  authority 
to  prohibit  the  establishment  of  Prize  Courts  and  the  sale  of 
Prizes  within  the  United  States. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  19. 

London,  May  30,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Since  the  date  of  my  Letter,  communicating  Lord  Hawkes- 
bury's  sentiments  respecting  the  Debts,  I  have  seen  and  con- 
versed with  Mr.  Addington,  who  told  me  that  he  had  called  up 
the  subject  in  the  Cabinet,  as  he  had  before  assured  me  that  he 
would  do,  and  that  he  had  expressed  his  solicitude  that  it  should 
be  brought  to  a  decision,  adding,  that  as  the  question  from  its 
nature  and  circumstances  was  not  susceptible  of  exact  proof,  it 
was  not  extraordinary  that  it  should  appear  in  various  lights  to 
different  persons  ;  but  as  the  mutual  harmony  of  the  two  Coun- 
tries in  a  certain  degree  depended  upon  its  being  settled,  it  was 
in  his  opinion  desirable  that  a  measure,  in  its  consequences  of  so 
much  importance,  should  be  no  longer  deferred.  Our  conversa- 
tion extended  itself  to  other  objects  affecting  the  intercourse  and 
friendship  between  the  two  Nations,  upon  all  of  which  he  ex- 
pressed himself  with  liberality  ;  concerning  the  depredations  upon 
our  Trade  committed  by  their  cruizing  Ships,  he  said  that  orders 
had  been  despatched  immediately  after  he  came  into  office,  to 
their  naval  Commanders  in  every  quarter  of  the  world,  requiring 
them  to  respect  the  Rights  of  neutrals  and  to  exercise  those  of 
belligerents  with  the  greatest  moderation  ;  and  as  measures  were 
in  train  to  reform  the  Vice-Admiralty  Courts,  he  was  determined 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  467 

likewise  to  adopt  such  means  as  should  prevent  the  Delay  hereto- 
fore complained  of  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Court  of  Appeals. 

Yesterday  I  met  by  appointment  the  Lord  Chancellor,  who  in- 
formed me  that  he  had  fully  examined  and  made  up  his  opinion 
concerning  the  subject  of  the  Debts  ;  but  that  it  was  proper  be- 
fore he  mentioned  it  to  me,  that  he  should  communicate  it  to  his 
colleagues,  which  he  engaged  to  do  without  Delay,  &  I  asked  him 
if  he  had  looked  into  the  Papers  respecting  the  Maryland  Bank 
Stock  ;  he  replied  that  he  had  sent  to  his  predecessor  for  them, 
and  as  they  had  already  been  before  him,  the  looking  of  them 
over  again  would  require  but  little  time  and  attention. 

From  these  communications  joined  to  what  Lord  Hawkesbury 
had  before  said  to  me,  we  may,  I  think,  infer  that  the  business 
will  now  be  decided  in  a  short  time  ;  whether  the  decision  will 
close  the  negotiation  upon  the  terms  I  have  proposed,  is  more 
than  I  know,  though  I  am  inclined  to  hope  that  this  will  be  the 
case. 

We  have  no  news  either  from  the  Levant  or  the  Baltic  since  the 
date  of  my  last  ;  from  Paris  private  accounts  state  that  there  will 
be  no  objection  to  the  ratification  of  the  Convention,  according 
to  the  modification  advised  by  the  Senate.  Mr.  Otto  who  is  as 
likely  as  any  one  to  be  sent  as  Minister  to  the  United  States  has 
informed  me  that  the  Consul  has  called  for  a  list  of  persons  to 
be  employed  in  America,  which  has  been  supplied  by  the  Minister 
of  Foreign  Affairs. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  May  31,  1801. 
Dr.  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Here  though  bread  is  dear,  things  are  in  this  respect 
improving  ;  and  as  the  season  has  been  hitherto  a  favorable  one, 
and  the  country  has  the  prospect  of  a  good  harvest,  it  cannot  be 
long  before  the  distresses  arising  from  a  scarcity  of  provisions 
will  be  over.  Peace  according  to  the  profession  of  the  new  min- 
isters is  the  earnest  and  sincere  wish  of  this  country,  and,  when 


468  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

the  question  respecting  Egypt  is  decided,  it  is  not  improbable  that 
it  may  take  place  between  England  &  France,  provided  Bona- 
parte believes  his  personal  authority  will  be  as  secure  in  peace  as 
in  war.  This  will  not  depend  upon  the  success  of  the  English  ; 
for  should  they  fail  and  be  obliged  to  re-embark,  I  do  not  think 
they  would  renew  the  attempt  ;  though  at  present  the  probability 
is  on  the  side  of  the  success  of  the  English  in  Egypt. 

It  is  likely,  though  not  certain,  that  the  affairs  of  the  North  will 
be  settled  :  perhaps  a  convention  may  be  made  limiting  the  exer- 
cise of  the  Right  of  visit  &  search  ;  denying  it  wholly  to  Priva- 
teers where  the  Neutral  is  under  convoy,  and  requiring  certain 
Precautions,  where  it  is  enforced  by  a  National  Ship,  and  provid- 
ing for  Damages  &c,  whenever  it  shall  be  exercised  without  just 
cause.  I  have  reason  to  know  that  shd.  any  such  convention  be 
made,  there  will  be  a  disposition  to  enter  into  the  like  stipulations 
with  us  shd.  we  desire  them. 

From  France  we  hear  (private  accounts  only)  that  there  will  be 
no  objections  to  complete  the  convention  according  to  the  advice 
of  the  Senate.  When  will  the  Chancellor  embark  ?  Mr.  Otto  is 
talked  of  as  the  Minister  to  the  U.  S.,  and  would  be  as  suitable  a 
character  as  is  likely  to  be  thought  of. 

Very  truly 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  20. 

London,  June  1,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Annexed  I  send  you  the  copy  of  a  letter  which  I  have  just  re- 
ceived from  Lord  Hawkesbury  on  the  subject  of  the  Depredations 
upon  our  Trade  in  the  West  Indies.  As  there  can  be  no  objec- 
tion to  its  publication,  you  will  perhaps  think  it  adviseable  to 
have  the  Letter  and  its  Enclosures  printed  in  our  News  Papers, 
by  which  means  it  will  reach  the  West  Indies  and  be  seen  by 
those  whose  abuses  it  seems  intended  to  restrain. 

Two  days  ago  by  Lord  Hawkesbury's  request,  I  waited  upon 


1801]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  469 

him  in  Downing  Street,  where  he  informed  me  that  having  under- 
stood that  we  were  about  to  send  a  small  Squadron  of  Frigates 
into  the  Mediterranean  for  the  protection  of  our  Trade  against 
the  Barbary  Powers,  he  had  received  the  King's  command  to  state 
to  me  for  the  information  of  the  President,  that  his  Majesty  had 
given  orders  that  the  Ports  of  Gibraltar,  Minorca  &  Malta  should 
be  open  to  our  Ships  of  war,  and  that  they  should  moreover  be 
supplied  from  his  Majesty's  magazines  in  those  Ports,  with  what- 
ever their  necessities  might  from  time  to  time  require.  I  of 
course  made  my  acknowledgments  for  this  friendly  communica- 
tion, and  added  that  I  would  immediately  transmit  it  to  you  for 
the  President's  information. 

On  this  occasion  among  other  topics  of  conversation,  his  Lord- 
ship introduced  the  subject  of  Louisiana*  ;  he  had  from  different 
quarters  received  information  of  its  cession  to  France,  and  very 
unreservedly  expressed  the  reluctance  with  which  they  should  be 
led  to  acquiesce  in  a  measure  that  might  be  followed  by  the  most 
important  consequences  ;  the  acquisition  might  enable  France 
to  extend  her  influence  and  perhaps  her  dominion  up  the  Missis- 
sippi and  thro1  the  Lakes  even  to  Canada  j  this  would  be  realising 
the  plan,  to  prevent  the  accomplishment  of  which  the  seven  years 
war  took  place,  besides  the  vicinity  of  the  Floridas  to  the  West 
Indies  and  the  facility  with  which  the  Trade  of  the  latter  might 
be  interrupted  and  the  /stands  even  invaded,  should  the  transfer  be 
made,  were  strong  reasons  why  England  must  be  unwilling  that 
this  territory  should  pass  under  the  dominion  of  France.  As  I 
could  not  mistake  his  Lordship's  object  in  speaking  to  me  upon 
this  Subject,  I  had  no  difficulty  nor  reserve  in  expressing  my 
private  sentiments  respecting  it,  taking  for  my  text,  the  ob- 
servation of  Montesquieu  "  that  it  is  happy  for  Trading  Powers, 
that  God  has  permitted  Turks  and  Spaniards  to  be  in  the 
world,  since  of  all  nations  they  are  the  most  proper  to  possess 
a  great  Empire  with  insignificance."  The  purport  of  what  I 
said  was  that  we  are  content  that  the  Floridas  remain  in  the  hands 
of  Spain,  but  should  be  unwilling  to  see  them  transferred  except  to 

ourselves. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c,  &c, 

Rufus  King. 

*  Words  in  italics  in  cipher. 


470  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

{Copy.) 

Downing  St.,  30th  May,  t8oi. 
Sir  : 

I  have  the  honour  to  transmit  to  you  for  your  information  the 
copy  of  a  letter  with  its  enclosures  from  Mr.  King  to  Mr.  Ham- 
mond in  answer  to  a  representation  which  I  had  directed  to  be 
made  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  on  the  subject  of  the  capture  of 
American  Vessels  trading  to  the  Spanish  colonies  in  the  West 
Indies  :  and  I  trust  that  you  will  consider  this  communication  as 
furnishing  an  additional  proof  of  the  disposition  of  his  Majesty's 
Government  to  repress  any  practices  on  the  part  of  his  Majesty's 
Subjects,  which  may  tend  to  molest  or  impede  the  legal  Com- 
merce of  the  Citizens  of  the  United  States. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be  with  great  consideration  &c,  &c. 

Hawkesbury. 

Rufus  King,  Esq. 

Lords  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty. 

{Copy.) 

Whitehall,  27th  May,  1801. 
My  Lords  : 

I  transmit  to  your  Lordships  herewith  for  your  information  an 
extract  of  a  letter  from  Mr.  Thornton  his  Majesty's  Charge  d'Af- 
faires  in  America  to  Lord  Grenville  with  copies  of  its  inclosures 
relative  to  the  Capture  of  American  Vessels  trading  to  the  Span- 
ish Ports,  together  with  a  copy  of  a  Report  of  his  Majesty's  Ad- 
vocate General,  to  whom  by  the  King's  command  the  Papers  in 
question  have  been  referred. 

I  have  at  the  same  time  the  honour  to  signify  to  your  Lord- 
ships his  Majesty's  pleasure  that  you  should  direct  the  Judges  of 
our  Vice-Admiralty  courts  to  follow  and  be  guided  in  their  de- 
cision in  cases  relating  to  the  Trade  carried  on  between  a  neutral 
and  a  belligerent  nation,  by  the  rules  and  principles  established 
by  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty  and  laid  down  in  the  inclosed 
Report  of  his  Majesty's  Advocate  General  ;  and  the  better  to 
enforce  an  uniform  and  strict  adherence  to  those  principles,  I 
am  further  to  signify  to  you  the  King's  commands  that  directions 
should  be  given  to  withdraw  Letters  of  Marque  and   reprisal  in 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  47 1 

cases  where  the  owners  thereof  shall  appear  wilfully  and  know- 
ingly to  have  captured  and  brought  in  for  adjudication,  contrary 
to  his  Majesty's  existing  instructions  vessels,  trading  between  a 
neutral  country  and  the  enemy's  colonies. 

I  have  the  honour  &c 

Portland. 

Report  of  the  King's  Advocate. 

{Copy.) 

Lincoln's  Inn  Fields,  23d  May,  1801. 
My  Lord  Duke  : 

I  am  honoured  with  your  Grace's  latter  of  the  19th  inst.  trans- 
mitting to  me  several  papers  which  have  been  communicated  to 
your  Grace  by  Lord  Hawkesbury  from  his  Majesty's  Charge  d'Af- 
faires  in  America,  with  a  direction  to  take  them  into  consideration 
and  to  report  to  yo-ur  Grace  for  his  Majesty's  information  my 
opinion,  whether  in  consequence  of  what  is  contained  in  the 
extract  of  Mr.  Thornton's  letter  to  Lord  Grenville,  especially  that 
part  of  it  which  states,  "  a  principle  to  have  been  lately  adopted 
in  the  courts  of  Vice-admiralty  at  Jamaica  and  Providence,  that 
no  commerce  could  be  permitted  between  a  belligerent  and  neu- 
tral nation  in  the  vessels  of  the  latter  except  such  as  had  been 
authorized  previously  to  the  commencement  of  hostilities,"  it 
would  be  adviseable  to  make  any,  or  what,  communication  to  the 
Vice-admiralty  courts  at  Jamaica  and  the  Bahamas  for  their 
guidance  &  direction. 

In  obedience  to  your  Grace's  commands,  I  have  considered  the 
Papers  referred  to  me,  and  I  have  the  honor  to  report  that  the 
principle  stated  to  have  been  lately  adopted  in  the  Courts  of 
Vice-Admiralty  at  Jamaica  and  Providence,  is  directly  in  opposi- 
tion to  the  decisions  daily  passing  in  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty 
and  the  Court  of  Appeal.  It  has  been  held  by  the  tribunals  of 
this  Country,  that  neutrals  cannot  be  admitted  by  the  enemy, 
under  the  pressure  of  war,  to  carry  on  his  colonial  trade,  from 
which  in  time  of  Peace,  they  were  wholly  excluded.  But  this 
principle  may  be,  and  has  been,  on  account  of  special  circum- 
stances during  the  present  Hostilities  to  a  certain  degree  relaxed. 

His  Majesty's  Instructions  of  January,  1798,  only  ordered  that 


472  EUFUS  KING.  [1801 

vessels  should  be  brought  in  for  legal  adjudication  which  are 
coming  directly  from  the  Enemy's  Colonies  to  Europe,  and  not 
being  bound  to  England  or  a  Port  of  their  own  Country.  A 
Trade  between  the  neutral  Country  and  the  Enemy's  Colonies  is 
now  clearly  permitted.  Colonial  produce  actually  imported  into 
the  neutral  country  may  also  be  re-exported  from  thence  to 
any  other  place,  even  to  the  Mother  Country  of  that  colony  of 
which  it  is  the  produce.  His  Majesty's  existing  Instructions  are 
therefore  the  rule  by  which  at  present  the  Judges  of  Vice-ad- 
miralty Courts  ought  to  govern  themselves,  and  I  humbly  appre- 
hend that  it  would  be  adviseable  to  convey  to  the  Courts  referred 
to  a  direction  to  that  effect  ;  as  the  application  of  the  more  ex- 
tended principle  upon  which  they  are  represented  to  act  may  be 
productive  not  only  of  much  injustice,  but  of  great  publick  incon- 
venience. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  &c 

J.  Nicholl. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  21. 

London,  June  8,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  King  has  so  far  recovered  as  to  be  able  to  attend  to  the 
most  important  portion  of  the  public  Business,  but  he  does  not 
enter  into  it  generally  or  with  his  former  assiduity.  The  foreign 
Ministers  were  received  by  him  a  few  days  ago  at  the  Queen's 
House  ;  he  seemed  to  be  much  debilitated  having  the  appearance 
of  one  who  had  been  severely  attacked  by  a  fever  from  which  he 
was  beginning  to  recover. 

According  to  the  last  accounts  from  Egypt,  which  are  of  the 
20th  of  April,  the  probability  that  the  French  army  will  be  able 
to  maintain  possession  of  the  country  is  still  farther  diminished. 
Should  the  Squadron  which  sailed  originally  from  Brest  under 
Gantheaume  ;  and  which  has  more  than  once  attempted  to  pro- 
ceed from  Toulon  to  Egypt,  be  able  to  reinforce  Menon  by- 
landing  troops  at  different  places  on  the  coast  westward  of 
Alexandria,  he  may  hold  out  sometime  longer  than  it  will  other- 


1810]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  473 

wise  be  in  his  power  to  do.  But  as  the  English,  by  being  Masters 
of  the  Mediterranean,  are  enabled  likewise  to  reinforce  their 
army,  and  the  Turkish  forces  have  actually  advanced  and  most 
probably  taken  possession  of  Cairo,  the  chances  are  upon  the 
whole  manifestly  and  greatly  against  the  French.  Tho'  there  is 
no  news  from  the  Baltic  since  Lord  St.  Helens  arrived  at  Peters- 
burgh,  there  seems  to  be  little  doubt  that  peace  and  the  former 
intercourse  will  be  reestablished  between  England  and  the 
Northern  Powers.  The  Embargo  upon  the  English  Ships  having 
been  taken  off  in  Russia  and  its  seamen  released  and  sent  back  to 
their  vessels,  and  Denmark  having  manifested  dispositions 
favourable  to  an  amicable  settlement  of  the  controversy,  the 
English  Government  has  in  its  turn  removed  the  Embargo,  which 
had  been  laid  upon  the  vessels  of  Russia  and  Denmark.  Sweden 
must  act  in  concert  with  her  neighbour,  and  the  misunderstanding 
will  probably  be  adjusted,  perhaps  by  a  compensation  for  the 
Regulation  of  the  Right  of  Search.  Having  in  separate  conversa- 
tions with  Lord  Hawkesbury  and  Mr.  Addington  alluded  to  the 
probability  of  such  a  convention,  they  both  assured  me,  without 
however  intimating  that  the  measure  was  likely  to  happen,  that 
they  should  be  ready,  if  desired,  to  secure  to  us  by  Treaty  every 
limitation  of  the  Right  of  Search,  which  England  might  consent 
to  with  any  other  nation. 

Demonstrations  are  making  all  along  the  opposite  French  coast 
for  an  invasion  of  the  British  Islands,  and  tho'  the  preparations 
are  not  in  such  forwardness,  as  to  induce  a  belief  that  any 
attempt  can  soon  be  made,  there  are  many  who  think  that  it  will 
not  long  be  deferred,  and  be  seriously  undertaken  ;  but  the  return 
of  the  English  Fleet  from  the  Baltic  would  render  the  enterprize 
more  hazardous  by  the  additional  squadron  with  which  the 
motions  of  the  French  might  be  watched  and  defeated. 

The  pinch  of  the  scarcity  is  passed  ;  the  season  has  thus  far 
been  a  favourable  one,  and  there  is  a  good  and  general  prospect 
of  an  early  and  plentiful  harvest.  Bread  however  will  continue 
to  be  dear  till  November.  Such  of  our  Merchants  as  ship  flour 
at  the  high  prices  and  after  the  25th  of  March  will  be  losers, 
though  the  profits  of  the  year  will  be  great  to  the  country. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  etc. 

Rufus  King. 


474  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

[Private?) 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  June  12,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

Although  the  recent  Instructions  which  have  been  sent  to  the 
West  Indies  and  Nova  Scotia,  may  operate  to  curb,  and  the  pro- 
posed reform  of  the  Vice-Admiralty  courts,  when  made,  will  do  still 
more  to  correct  the  illegal  Seizures  and  depredations,  made  under 
cover  of  his  Majesty's  authority  upon  the  lawful  Commerce  of  the 
United  States  ;  they  can  do  nothing  to  satisfy  the  injury,  or 
compensate  the  losses  that  have  recently  occurred  by  the  capture 
of  American  Property  which  has  been  condemned  in  the  Colony 
Tribunals  merely  because  it  was  bound  to  the  dominions  of  the 
Enemies  of  Great  Britain. 

So  considerable  and  extensive  have  been  the  losses  that  a  sense 
of  irritation  and  injury  has  spread  itself  throughout  the  com- 
mercial towns  of  the  United  States,  which  have  called  upon  the 
President  to  interfere  for  the  recovery  of  the  Property  of  which 
they  have  been  unjustly  deprived,  as  well  as  to  procure  to  their 
Trade  greater  security  from  the  depredations  in  future.  In 
consequence  hereof,  I  have  been  instructed  to  represent  to  your 
Lordship,  on  the  one  hand,  the  President's  sincere  desire  and 
Resolution  to  adhere  to  those  principles  of  exact  neutrality,  which 
have  uniformly  marked  the  conduct  of  the  American  Government 
during  the  present  war,  and,  on  the  other,  his  confidence,  founded 
upon  the  fidelity  of  his  own  Principles,  as  well  as  the  sentiments 
of  respect  which  he  wishes  to  entertain  for  the  Justice  of  the 
British  Government,  that  immediate,  efficacious  and  summary 
measures  will  be  devised  to  restore  to  the  American  Citizens,  with 
costs  and  Damages,  the  Property  of  which  they  of  late  have  been 
deprived  by  the  unjust  seizure  and  sentences  in  the  West  Indies 
&  Nova  Scotia. 

To  wait  for  the  Decisions  of  the  Courts  of  Appeals,  already 
loaded  with  the  accumulated  Business  of  the  War,  and  to  be 
obliged  to  incur  the  Expence  and  Delay  of  the  requisite 
Process  to  obtain  such  Decisions,  would  be  to  confound  the 
present  cases  of  acknowledged  irregularity  and  injustice  with 
the  ordinary  and  doubtful  business  of  the  Tribunal  of  Appeals. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  475 

Under  the  peculiar  circumstances  of  these  cases,  I  have  pre- 
ferred in  the  first  instance  this  private  representation  to  your 
Lordship,  which,  by  bringing  the  subject  under  consideration, 
may  suggest  the  best  course  of  attaining  its  object,  and  I  shall  be 
ready  to  present  an  official  note  respecting  it,  as  soon  as  I  shall 
be  apprized  of  the  mode  in  which  a  restoration  of  the  property 
can  be  made. 

With  perfect  consideration  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


Henry  Lee  to  R.  King. 

Stratford,  Virginia,  June  18th,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Altho  I  very  seldom  write  to  you,  the  feelings  of  my  heart 
toward  you,  correspond  with  the  affectionate  regard  which  sprung 
up  with  our  first  acquaintance.  I  hear  with  the  highest  pleasure 
the  unvarying  acknowledgements  rendered  on  both  sides  of  the 
Atlantic  to  your  private  worth  &  yr.  ministerial  ability.  The  im- 
portance of  the  station  you  fill  to  our  Country  will  I  presume 
induce  the  govt,  here  (notwithstanding  its  radical  Mutation)  to 
avail  itself  of  your  talents  &  influence  by  urging  yr.  continuance 
in  London. 

Whatever  may  be  yr.  destiny  my  prayers  for  the  felicity  of 
yourself,  Mrs.  King  &  family  will  be  as  constant  as  they  are 
sincere  &  as  soon  as  the  public  interest  will  permit  I  shall  rejoice 
to  find  you  restored  to  yr.  native  land. 

Done  with  public  life  by  a  retirement  long  since  resolved  on,  I 
can  give  you  no  interesting  information  on  political  subjects. 
The  professed  moderation  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  which  was  so  pleasing 
to  us  all,  begins  to  be  doubted  from  some  late  dismissions  & 
appointments — as  yet  the  judicial  department  only  has  felt  his 
interference,  how  long  it  may  be  before  he  extends  his  reform  as 
it  is  termed  to  other  departments  is  very  uncertain.  Left  to  him- 
self I  believe  his  conduct  would  be  marked  by  much  moderation, 
&  although  his  Cabinet  is  composed  of  mild  and  amiable  men, 
yet  I  fear  he  will  be  goaded  by  party  into  intemperance  &  unwise 
proceedings. 


47^  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 

Should  this  be  the  case  the  next  election  will  be  contested  with 
renovated  ardor,  &  elections  so  keenly  contested  will  not  always 
settle  without  disturbing  the  national  tranquility. 

We  have  just  heard  of  the  surpassing  achievement  of  a  division 
of  the  British  fleet  off  Copenhagen  under  the  orders  of  the  God 
of  the  seas,  if  I  may  in  the  stile  of  antiquity  thus  term  a  mortal, 
and,  yesterday  we  learnt  of  the  debarkation  of  Genl.  Abercromby 
in  Egypt  &  of  his  successful  advance  to  the  vicinity  of  Alex- 
andria. If  both  these  expeditions  issue  favorably,  the  first  consul 
will  be  placed  in  a  more  disadvantageous  situation  by  the  powers 
of  Britain  alone,  than  United  Europe  with  the  profuse  waste  of 
blood  &  gold  had  been  able  to  accomplish. 

I  profess  I  very  much  doubted  the  success  of  the  Egyptian  ex- 
pedition, but  never  apprehended  possibility  of  failure  to  the 
Baltic. 

Will  the  two  events,  terminating  as  they  now  promise,  hasten 
or  retard  peace  ? — the  world  seems  panting  for  this  event. 

Blessed  will  be  the  minister  who  restores  to  agitated  man 
repose.  Even  in  this  country  all  ranks  look  anxiously  to  this 
happy  event,  notwithstanding  the  continuance  of  the  war  cannot 
fail  greatly  to  enrich  our  citizens. 

I  will  stop  as  I  am  sure  my  reflections  must  be  crude  &  can- 
not be  interesting  to  a  man  whose  situation,  information  & 
perspicacity  enable  him  to  view  and  understand  the  position 
thoroughly,  whereas  limited — very  limited  indeed  must  be  my 
squint  at  it. 

A  friend's  son  visits  London  &  Paris  for  the  completion  of  his 
education.  He  is  truly  amiable  &  respect  for  his  parents  as  well 
as  regard  for  himself  interests  my  heart  in  his  success  &  comfort. 
In  no  way  can  I  contribute  so  effectually  to  promote  the  end  of 
his  voyage  as  by  asking  yr.  kind  attention  to  him  while  in  London. 
This  I  do  without  ceremony,  confident  that  it  will  be  afforded  on 
yr.  part  with  truth  &  pleasure.  Thus  to  be  informed  will  be 
highly  gratifying  to  me  on  act.  of  young  Mr.  Handsford,  &  be- 
cause it  will  be  a  manifestation  of  the  continuance  of  the  same 
disposition  in  you  so  long  recognized  by  me  with  the  most  pleas- 
ant sensations.     .     .     . 

Ever  yours 

Henry  Lee. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  477 

R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  June  15,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

George  Cunningham,  a  citizen  of  the  United  States  and  Master 
of  the  American  ship  Orion,  which  lately  arrived  in  England 
from  America,  has  been  arrested  and  is  now  confined  in  the 
Prison  of  Newgate,  upon  a  charge  of  having  by  immoderate  pun- 
ishment killed  John  Gosner,  one  of  his  crew,  and  who  was  also 
an  American  citizen,  during  the  voyage  from  America  to  England. 

According  to  the  representation  of  this  case  which  has  been 
made  to  me,  it  is  manifest,  first,  that  the  charge  preferred  against 
Cunningham  is  both  false  and  malicious  ;  and  second,  whether 
true  or  otherwise,  that  he  is  not  liable  to  answer  for  the  same  in  a 
British  Tribunal. 

In  cases  of  Piracy  all  nations  have  a  concurrent  jurisdiction, 
because  a  Pirate  is  the  common  enemy  of  all  nations  ;  but  in 
cases  of  homicide,  and  other  crimes,  committed  upon  the  high 
seas,  and  which  by  the  Law  of  Nations,  do  not  amount  to  Piracy, 
the  offence  is  cognizable  only  in  the  Tribunals  of  the  Nation 
to  which  the  vessel  belongs,  in  which  the  same  was  committed. 

As  Cunningham  is  an  American  Citizen,  and  the  offence  im- 
puted to  him  was  not  committed  within  the  territorial  jurisdiction 
of  his  Britannic  Majesty,  and  is  not  a  Piracy,  he  cannot  be  held 
to  answer  for  the  same  in  his  Majesty's  Tribunals  ;  and  I  there- 
fore demand  his  immediate  Discharge,  in  order  that  he  may 
be  enabled,  without   farther  molestation,    to   pursue    his    lawful 

Business. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Eldon. 

(Private.) 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  June  22,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

Having  received   instructions  to  urge  the  conclusion  without 

farther  delay  of  the  Negotiation,  which  for  a  long  time  has  been 

depending  between  His  Majesty's  Ministers  and  that  of  the  United 

States,  I  take  the  liberty  previously  to  presenting  a  Note  upon  the 

subject  to  Lord  Hawkesbury  to  enquire  whether  your  Lordship 


478  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

has  yet  found  an  opportunity  to  communicate  to  his  Majesty's 
Ministers  the  opinions,  which,  when  I  had  last  the  honour  of  see- 
ing you,  you  had  the  goodness  to  assure  me  it  was  your  intention 
to  do,  upon  an  early  day,  respecting  the  Debts  due  to  British 
Creditors,  and  the  Bank  Stock  claimed  by  the  State  of  Maryland. 
With  unfeigned  Esteem  &  Respect  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Gt.  Cumberland  Place,  June  24,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  the  honour  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  Ldp's 
Note  of  the  20  inst.  enclosing  the  copy  of  a  letter  which  your 
Ld.p  had  received  from  the  Law  Officers  of  the  Crown,  respecting 
the  case  of  Geo.  Cunningham.  Since  the  date  of  this  letter  Cun- 
ningham has  been  enlarged  by  the  Court  of  the  King's  Bench, 
upon  his  entering  into  a  Recognizance  with  sureties  to  appear 
and  answer  to  the  charge  preferred  against  him  at  the  next  session 
of  the  C.  of  Ad.y. 

Being  convinced  that  Cunningham  is  not  liable  to  be  called 
upon,  and  therefore  that  he  ought  not  to  be  held  to  answer  in  a 
British  Tribunal,  the  charge  in  question,  I  send  your  Ld.p  here- 
with copies  of  the  exculpatory  affidavits  which  were  read  in  the 
Court  of  the  King's  Bench,  and  demand  that  he  may  be  dis- 
charged from  his  Recognizance. 

The  affidavits  upon  which  he  was  committed  are  deposited  in 
the  Crown  office,  and  together  with  those  exhibited  on  the  part 
of  Cunningham  make  out  the  case  upon  which  the  demand  of  the 
discharge  is  founded. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


Bird,  Savage,  &  Bird  to  Rufus  King. 

Jeffries  Square,  24th  June,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

We  are  much  obliged  by  the  communication  you  have  given  us 

of  the  papers  *  in  General  Allen's  case,  which  we  return,  but  can- 

*Gen.  Allen's  letter  of  April  14,  1801,  and  the  Secretary  of  State's,  April  8, 
1801. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  479 

not  help  expressing  our  surprise  at  the  singularity  of  his  conduct, 
and  his  persisting  in  accusing  others  of  delays  which  have  origi- 
nated solely  from  himself. 

In  answer  to  your  inquiry  what  is  the  nature  of  the  proofs 
which  Gen.  Allen  has  been  order'd  to  furnish,  we  inclose  you 
copy  of  a  letter  to  him  from  Mr.  Slade,  his  Proctor,  explaining 
them  and  calling  on  him  to  conform  to  the  plan  chalk'd  out,  in- 
stead of  following  his  own  notions.  We  are  sorry  however  to 
say,  that  the  General  has  not  furnished  the  requisite  proofs  either 
from  France  or  America,  and  we  much  fear  that,  either  from 
inability  to  furnish  the  requisite  proofs  or  from  obstinacy,  he 
will  not. 

In  the  mean  time  we  are  sorry  to  say  that  Mr.  Slade  informs 
us  that  there  is  every  reason  to  fear  that  the  Lords  of  appeal  will 
not  much  longer  delay  the  decision,  which,  without  these  proofs, 
must  go  against  the  General. 

We  shall  by  these  means  be  expos'd  to  be  great  sufferers,  only 
a  part  of  the  Arms  having  been  dispos'd  of  at  prices  much  below 
the  estimate  for  which  we  became  security,  and  the  rest,  being  the 
larger  part,  being  yet  unsold. 

We  explicitly  acknowledge  that  in  mentioning  this  business  to 
us,  you  desir'd  that  we  would  be  entirely  guided  by  our  own 
judgment,  and  not  consider  you  as  recommending  us  to  engage  in 
it.  Still  it  is  certain  that  we  shou'd  not  have  embark'd  in  it,  if 
you  had  not  introduc'd  it  to  us,  and  if  we  had  not  suppos'd  from 
the  countenance  given  by  you  to  Genl.  Allen  that  his  cause  was  a 
good  one  and  capable  of  being  supported  by  all  the  necessary 
proofs.  Nor  shou'd  we  have  engag'd  in  it,  if  we  had  not  under- 
stood that  no  mercantile  speculation  was  more  likely  to  succeed 
than  sending  out  these  arms,  and  suppos'd  that  we  were  secure  of 
a  sale  either  to  the  United  States,  or  to  some  of  the  individual 
States. 

We  therefore  confide  in  your  friendship  and  assistance  to  do 
everything  in  your  power  to  get  us  out  of  the  scrape,  both  by 
facilitating  the  sale  of  the  arms,  if  possible,  to  the  United  States, 
and  by  any  representations  that  the  case  may  admit  of  and  require 
to  our  Government. 

Bird,  Savage,  &  Bird. 


480  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 

R.  King  to  Mr.  Addington. 

(Private.} 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  June  29,  1801. 
Dr.  Sir  : 

I  have  just  received  a  Note  from  Lord  Eldon,  saying  that  early 
in  this  week,  he  should  bring  before  the  Cabinet,  the  subject  con- 
cerning which  I  have  more  than  once  taken  the  liberty  to  com- 
municate my  solicitude.  I  should  be  wanting  in  the  candour 
which  I  know  you  approve  in  others,  as  well  as  practice  yourself, 
did  I  not  on  the  present  occasion  state  to  you  that  the  recent 
Letters,  which  I  have  received  from  America,  at  the  same  time 
that  they  profess  the  most  earnest  desire  to  cherish  the  subsisting 
good  will  and  harmony  between  our  respective  countries,  express 
both  concern  and  surprize  at  the  delay  that  has  occurred  here  in 
settling  the  points  which  have  been  so  long  under  discussion. 

Such  is  the  tenor  of  my  Letters,  that  I  cannot  be  mistaken  in 
the  opinion  that  any  farther  postponement  of  the  business  will 
unavoidably  lead  to  conclusions  in  respect  to  its  cause,  which  can 
have  no  tendency  to  facilitate  its  ultimate  settlement,  nor  to  en- 
crease  the  mutual  confidence  of  the  two  countries.  I  therefore 
entreat  of  you,  so  far  to  interfere,  when  the  subject  is  before  the 
Cabinet,  as  to  cause  it  to  be  decided  without  any  farther  delay. 

By  my  Secretary  who  embarks  for  America  in  the  course  of 
twenty  days,  it  will  be  necessary  that  I  transmit  an  exact  report 
of  the  situation  of  this  Business,  and  I  need  not  say  to  you,  that 
on  every  account  I  anxiously  wish  that  I  may  be  enabled  to  state 
that  it  has  been  satisfactorily  adjusted. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  23. 

London,  July  3,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Parliament  is  prorogued  ;  the  address  delivered  by  the  Lord 
Chancellor  at  the  close  of  the  Session,  contrary  to  what  some 
persons  expected,  throws   no   light   upon   the   negotiation   with 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  48 1 

France  ;  tho'  the  silence  which  has  been  observed  on  this  occa- 
sion may  serve  to  strengthen  the  belief  that  no  considerable  pro- 
gress has  yet  been  made  towards  the  attainment  of  Peace. 

It  being  understood  that  it  is  not  the  intention  of  England  to 
renew  the  armistice  in  the  Baltic,  the  negotiation  of  Lord  St. 
Helens  will  probably  be  concluded  before  it  expires  ;  and  from 
everything  I  hear,  there  seems  to  be  little  or  no  room  to  doubt 
that  the  late  misunderstanding  will  be  settled  in  a  manner  which 
will  prove  mutually  satisfactory. 

The  last  accounts  from  Egypt  state  the  arrival  at  Suez  of  a  part 
of  the  English  army  expected  from  India,  and  greatly  encrease 
the  probability  that  the  French  will  ultimately  be  obliged  to  evacu- 
ate that  country. 

Portugal,  it  seems,  has  purchased  Peace  after  an  inglorious 
shew  of  resistance  upon  the  Frontiers.  The  Terms  are  not  yet 
known,  but  without  doubt  are  hard  &  humiliating. 

The  Law  respecting  the  Prize  Courts  in  the  West  Indies  and 
Halifax  having  passed,  no  further  difficulties  now  stand  in  the 
way  of  the  promised  Reform,  which  will,  I  have  reason  to  hope,  be 
carried  into  execution  with  as  much  expedition  as  can  be  ex- 
pected from  a  Government  habitually  slow  in  all  its  measures. 

We  yesterday  received  information  from  Paris  which  states  it  to 
be  extremely  doubtful  whether  the  French  Government  will  con- 
sent to  ratify  the  Convention  upon  the  terms  proposed  by  the 
Senate  ;  it  is  even  said  that  it  has  officially  declined  doing  so. 
With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

VOL.   Ill — 31 


CHAPTER  XXXIII. 

King  still  at  his  Post — To  Lord  Hawkesbury — Desires  to  bring  Discussions  to 
speedy  Issues — To  Secretary  of  State — Dale's  Squadron  in  the  Mediterra- 
nean will  have  good  Influence — Ministry  promised  Decisions — To  Commo- 
dore Dale — Hospitable  Offer  of  Supplies  from  British  Ports — Presents  to 
Bey  of  Tunis — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Continental  Affairs — Conven- 
tion between  England  and  Russia — Enemy's  Goods  on  neutral  Ships  liable 
to  Capture — Right  of  Search  of  Vessels  under  Convoy  abandoned — Duroe, 
French  Ambassador,  strove  to  thwart  Negotiations — King  to  Secretary  of 
State — Bill  for  regulating  Vice-Admiralty  Courts  a  Law — Scott  to  King — 
Answer  to  Congratulations  on  Russian  Convention,  etc. — King  to  Gore — 
Patience  with  Ministry  almost  exhausted — King  to  Troup — Threatened 
French  Invasion — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Doubts  the  proposed 
French  Invasion — Difficulties  of  French  in  Egypt  increase — Cabot  to 
King — Spirit  of  the  Country  more  democratic  than  the  Form — King's 
Tour  on  the  Continent — Hale  to  King — Wishes  King  to  return  Home — 
Cabot  to  King — Hopes  England  will  not  make  Peace,  but  carry  on  the 
War — Jefferson's  Answer  to  New  Haven  Remonstrants — Troup  to  King — 
Jefferson's  System — Burr  goading  him  on — Hamilton  disgusted — King  to 
remain  till  End  of  eight  Years — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Sends  Atlas 
and  Maps — Turnbull  to  King — Malta  a  free  Port — Recommends  Higgins 
as  Consul — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Affairs  at  Tunis — To  Eaton — 
Cloths  for  Bey  of  Tunis. 

There  are  intimations  in  the  letters  of  Mr.  King  and  his 
correspondents  that  he  had  contemplated  returning  home 
on  the  coming  in  of  the  new  Administration,  for  he  feared 
that  its  policy  might  not  permit  him  to  carry  out  the  nego- 
tiations in  which  he  had  been  so  long  engaged  and  to  bring 
them  to  a  satisfactory  conclusion  in  a  short  time.  The 
change  of  ministry  in  England  was  as  he  thought  unfavor- 
able to  this  result,  as  it  was  the  cause  of  delay  and  required 
a  restatement  of  the  questions  in  dispute  to  the  new  minis- 

482 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  483 

ters.  The  best  dispositions  on  their  part,  as  expressed  by 
them,  were  not  followed  by  action,  and  he  found  himself 
obliged  to  urge  strongly  a  more  prompt  settlement  of  the 
business  of  the  United  States  while  it  was  intrusted  to  him. 
His  friends  at  home  wrote  to  him  to  remain  at  his  post,  as 
it  was  intimated  that  he  would  not  be  removed,  for  they 
trusted  him  from  his  known  character,  his  familiarity  with 
the  points  in  dispute,  his  high  standing  with  the  public  men 
and  ministers  in  England,  and  a  firm  belief  that  his  country's 
interests  were  safe  in  his  hands.  As  yet  there  were  no  official 
communications  of  Jefferson's  determination  relative  to  his 
continuance  at  his  post,  and  Mr.  King  continued  to  press  the 
English  ministers  to  some  decided  action. 

Before  entering  upon  his  career  as  Ambassador,  Mr.  King 
had  built  a  large  double  house  on  Broadway  in  New  York  on 
a  part  of  the  lot  on  which  the  Astor  House  now  stands,  and 
had  determined  to  occupy  it  on  his  return  home.  But  in 
the  letter  below  to  Mr.  Low  we  see  that  he  desired  to  sell  it, 
as  he  proposed  to  pass  the  greater  part  of  his  time  in  the 
country,  as  it  will  be  found  he  actually  did.  Mr.  John  Jacob 
Astor  became  the  purchaser  of  it,  and  also  of  the  other  lots 
adjoining  it,  and  after  many  years  the  Astor  House  was  built. 

R.  King  to  N.  Low. 

London,  July  3,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  I  thank  you  for  your  attention  respecting  the  sale  of 
my  house  in  Broadway  ;  it  continues  to  be  my  wish  to  sell,  rather 
than  to  repair,  or  lease,  or  keep  it  for  my  own  residence.  I  ex- 
pected when  I  built  it,  to  live  the  chief  of  my  time  in  town,  and 
for  that  reason  made  it  larger  and  laid  out  more  money  than  I 
should  have  done  had  I  thought  of  passing  the  greater  portion  of 
my  time  in  the  country,  as  it  is  now  my  intention  to  do.  A  less 
town  house  will  be  sufficient  for  me,  and  I  would  sell  for  less  than 
thirty  five  thousand  dollars  in  case  a  reasonable  abatement  would 
procure  me  a  purchaser.     .     .     . 

Yr.  obedt.  Servt. 

Rufus  King. 


484  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  24. 

London,  July  10,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  day  before  yesterday,  I  received  the  Duplicate  of  your 
letter  of  May  21st,  and  am  persuaded  that  the  appearance  of 
Commodore  Dale  in  the  Mediterranean  must  have  a  favourable 
influence  in  our  affairs  in  that  quarter.  My  No.  20.  will  have 
apprised  you  of  the  sentiments  of  this  Government  in  respect  to 
this  Squadron,  upon  the  supposition  that  it  was  destined  to  the 
Mediterranean  ;  these  friendly  assurances  have  been  renewed  to 
me  by  Lord  Hawkesbury  upon  my  communicating  to  him  the 
purport  of  your  letter  of  the  21st  of  May. 

Annexed  I  send  you  the  copy  of  a  letter  which  I  have  written  to 
Commodore  Dale  for  the  purpose  of  acquainting  him  with  the 
Orders  which  have  been  given  for  the  hospitable  reception  of  his 
Ships  in  the  British  Ports  in  the  Mediterranean. 

Together  with  the  Duplicate  of  your  letter,  I  received  from  the 
Department  of  State  Mr.  Marshall's  No.  12.  dated  Feby  26,  and 
Mr.  Lincoln's  letter  dated  April  29th,  with  respect  to  the  Depre- 
dations upon  our  Trade  in  the  West  Indies,  to  which  both  of 
these  letters  relate.  I  can  add  nothing  material  to  my  former 
communication.  In  future  I  think  we  have  reason  to  expect 
greater  caution  on  the  part  of  the  public  and  private  armed  ships 
of  this  country  and  more  justice  from  its  prize  courts.  In  several 
conferences  with  Lord  Hawkesbury  I  have  pressed  the  adoption 
of  some  measure  for  the  immediate  restoration  of  our  Property, 
which  has  been  recently  and  illegally  condemned  by  the  Court  of 
Vice-Admiralty.  Could  a  plan  be  devised  by  which  we  could  in 
a  summary  way,  recover  back  the  Property,  of  which  we  have 
been  deprived,  it  would  save  the  time  and  expense  that  will  be 
required  if  the  Claimants  are  obliged  to  travel  through  the  Court 
of  Appeals.  I  yesterday  resumed  the  subject  and  his  Lordship 
promised  me  that  it  should  without  loss  of  time,  be  taken  into 
consideration  ;  but  I  cannot  say  that  I  have  much  expectation 
that  any  special  Regulation  is  likely  to  be  adopted. 

I  complained  in  strong  terms  of  the  Delay  which  still  continues 
in  concluding  our  discussions  respecting  the  6th  Article,  and  was 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  485 

explicitly  assured  that  the  Cabinet  would  come  to  a  decision  on 
that  subject  in  the  course  of  a  Fortnight. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Commodore  Dale. 

London,  July  10,  1801. 
Sir  : 

The  Government  of  this  Country  having  been  apprized  that  a 
small  Squadron  of  American  Frigates  was  destined  to  the  Medi- 
terranean for  the  protection  of  our  Trade  against  the  Barbary 
Corsairs,  has  notified  to  me,  that  by  the  King's  commands,  in- 
structions have  been  given  to  his  Majesty's  naval  and  civil  officers 
for  the  hospitable  reception  of  our  Ships  of  war  in  the  Ports  of 
Gibraltar,  Minorca  and  Malta,  and  for  their  supply  from  his 
Majesty's  magazines  with  whatever  their  necessities  may  require. 

Having  just  received  information  from  the  Department  of  State, 
that  the  command  of  this  Squadron  has  been  given  to  you,  I  lose 
no  time  in  making  you  the  above  communication.  Should  any- 
thing of  importance  occur  during  your  cruize,  and  which  would 
be  likely  to  affect  our  commerce  to  the  Mediterranean,  you  will 
perhaps  think  it  expedient  to  make  me  acquainted  with  it  in 
order  that  I  may  be  enabled  to  correct  the  misrepresentations, 
which  are  usually  made  of  distant  occurrences. 

Some  short  time  since  I  sent  by  a  British  man  of  war,  bound  to 
Malta,  a  small  case,  containing  a  richly  mounted  Sabre,  for  the 
Bey  of  Tunis,  directed  to  William  Eaton  our  Consul  at  Tunis, 
and  addressed  to  the  care  of  Mr.  Eton,  the  English  Superintend- 
ant  of  Quarantine  at  Malta,  and  requested  him  to  deliver  the  case 
to  the  Commander  of  any  American  Frigate  which  might  touch 
at  Malta,  or  if  none  arrived,  then  to  forward  it  by  the  first  good 
opportunity  to  Tunis.  Some  other  and  still  more  valuable  pres- 
ents for  the  Bey  of  Tunis,  which  I  have  been  ordered  to  procure, 
are  nearly  completed,  and  will  be  sent  to  Malta  by  the  first  good 
conveyance  after  they  are  finished.  These  will  likewise  be  ad- 
dressed to  Mr.  Eton  of  Malta,  I  mention  these  facts  in  order  that 
you  may  take  measures  to  secure  and  forward  them  to  Tunis,  un- 
less you  shall  have  instructions  to  dispose  of  them  in  any  other 


486  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

manner.     The  articles  are  guns,  pistols,   sabres,  watches,  rings 
&c,  and  will  cost  six  or  seven  thousand  pounds  sterling. 

With  great  Consideration  &  Respect  &c.  &c, 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  25. 

London  July  12.  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Count  Bernstoff,  who  lately  arrived  here  from  Copenhagen, 
urges  the  restoration  of  the  Danish  Islands  and  the  re-establish- 
ment of  the  ancient  friendship  between  Denmark  &  England. 
Lord  Hawkesbury  equally  solicitous  to  effect  the  complete  res- 
toration of  good  will  and  amity,  proposes  to  include  in  the 
negotiation  the  subject  of  the  Northern  Confederation,  which 
has  occasioned  the  present  misunderstanding.  This  the  Danish 
Envoy  declines,  referring  the  question  to  the  issue  of  the  discus- 
sions going  on  at  Petersburgh,  and  consequently  the  negotiation 
is  at  a  stand. 

England,  through  Lord  Carysfort  at  Berlin,  demands  the  evac- 
uation of  Hanover,  which  was  occupied  in  consequence  of  the 
stipulations  of  the  Northern  League  ;  and  Prussia  declines  to 
withdraw  her  Troops,  as  England  has  not  signified  her  acquies- 
cence in  the  Principles  of  the  League. 

Sweden  makes  no  diplomatic  overtures  to  England,  and  is  be- 
lieved to  be  extremely  hostile  against  her.  Hence  it  seems  that 
the  return  of  harmony  between  England  and  these  Powers  will 
depend  upon  the  success  of  the  Mission  of  Lord  St.  Helens, 
which  is  now  understood  to  be  confined  to  Russia  ;  upon  this 
point  nothing  conclusive  has  yet  transpired,  tho'  there  continues 
to  exist  here  the  most  confident  expectation  that  the  views  of 
Russia  are  favourable  to  the  interest  of  England. 

Among  other  articles  of  the  late  Treaty  between  Portugal  and 
her  Enemies  the  Gaudiana  was  to  become  the  Spanish  boundary  ; 
the  English  to  be  shut  out  of  the  Ports  of  Portugal,  the  Territory 
of  Cayenne  to  be  extended  nearer  to  the  Amazon,  and  a  sum  of 
money  to  be  paid  to  France  ;  but  as  the  Treaty  has  been  rejected 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  487 

at  Paris,  the  war  will  probably  be  renewed,  and  Portugal  obliged 
to  submit  to  still  harder  terms. 

Upon  scrutinizing  the  latest  news  from  Egypt,  it  does  not  ap- 
pear certain  that  any  troops  had  arrived  at  Suez  with  Admiral 
Blankett,  though  a  considerable  detachment  was  expected  from 
India.  It  is  believed  that  the  French  will  be  compelled  to  evacu- 
ate Egypt,  and  the  preparations  which  they  are  said  to  be  making 
to  invade  the  Morea  are  supposed  to  be  for  the  purpose  of  re- 
gaining Egypt  by  way  of  Exchange. 

Cross  negotiations  are  going  on  in  every  quarter  respecting  the 
Treaty  of  Luneville,  the  execution  of  which  meets  with  consider- 
able Difficulty.  The  Duke  of  Modena  does  not  acquiesce  ;  the 
Duke  of  Parma  appears  unwilling  prematurely  to  relinquish  his 
Duchy  in  favour  of  his  son,  created  King  of  Etruria.  Prussia 
with  other  German  Powers  objects  to  the  Grand-Duke's  receiving 
his  indemnity  out  of  the  Empire.  Russia  since  the  new  acces- 
sion, has  made  strong  representations  in  Paris  in  favour  of  the 
Kings  of  Naples  and  Sardinia  ;  and  notwithstanding  all  we  read 
&  hear  of  the  progress  of  the  Negotiation  between  England  and 
France,  there  are  such  contradictory  appearances,  and  so  many 
circumstances  on  all  sides,  inconsistent  with  a  well-founded  ex- 
pectation of  immediate  Peace,  that  the  Probability  of  its  speedy 
establishment  seems  rather  to  lessen  than  encrease. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  26. 

London,  July  14,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

On  the  evening  of  the  Eleventh,  a  cutter  arrived  from  Peters- 
burgh  with  a  copy  of  the  convention  concluded  on  the  17th  ulto. 
between  Lord  St.  Helens  and  Count  Panin  by  which  the  mis- 
understanding between  England  &  Russia  is  amicably  adjusted. 
The  Northern  Confederacy,  as  you  will  recollect,  aimed  at  the 
establishment  of  two  principles  of  Maritime  Law  ;  one,  that  free 
ships  make  free  goods  ;  the  other,  that  Convoys  exempt  neutral 


488  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Ships  from  search.  The  first  is  entirely  given  up,  by  its  being 
agreed  that  Enemy  goods  and  contraband  of  war  on  board  of 
neutral  Ships,  shall  be  liable  to  capture  ;  the  second  is  likewise 
abandoned,  so  far  as  regards  the  visit  and  Search  of  Neutral 
Ships  under  convoy  by  the  public  or  National  Ships  of  the  Bel- 
ligerent, but  established  against  all  private  armed  Ships.  Several 
Regulations  are  provided  in  the  Convention  concerning  the  man- 
ner of  visiting,  search,  and  detaining,  or  adjudication  of  neutral 
Ships  under  convoy,  and  the  parties  agree  to  negotiate  farther  for 
the  purpose  of  establishing  the  precise  rules  upon  this  particular 
subject.  The  articles  of  contraband  are  well  defined,  and  the 
stipulations  respecting  the  Right  of  Neutrals  to  trade  to  the  Ports 
of  belligerents  are  liberal,  if  their  plain  meaning  be  suffered  to 
prevail.  Two  separate  articles  were  executed  at  the  same  time 
with  the  convention  ;  by  the  first,  it  is  agreed  that  the  Treaty  of 
commerce  between  the  two  countries  shall  be  reinstated  in  all  its 
parts  ;  and  second,  that  Denmark  and  Sweden  be  invited  to 
accede  to  the  convention  :  that  the  armistice  be  prolonged  three 
months  from  the  date  of  the  convention  and  that  Great  Britain 
will  restore  whatever  she  has  taken  from  Denmark  and  Sweden  ; 
Orders  for  which  purpose  to  be  dispatched  immediately  after 
those  Powers  shall  have  acceded  to  the  Convention. 

A  declaration  on  the  part  of  the  Emperor  was  likewise  delivered 
to  Lord  St.  Helens,  by  which  the  Emperor  confirms  the  revoca- 
tion of  the  Embargo  and  sequestration  of  British  Ships  and  Prop- 
erty, and  moreover  engages  to  make  just  and  full  compensation 
for  all  losses  which  may  have  been  sustained  in  consequence 
thereof. 

Duroc,  aid-de  Camp  of  the  Chief-Consul,  and  Envoy  to  Peters- 
burgh,  and  who  arrived  there  a  day  or  two  before  Lord  St. 
Helens,  tendered  the  formal  accession  of  France  to  the  Northern 
Confederation  which  had  not  before  been  offered,  and  which  was 
now  declined,  with  an  intimation  that  Russia  herself  was  about  to 
withdraw  from  it.  Count  Panin  proposed  to  invite  Prussia,  as 
well  as  Denmark  and  Sweden  to  accede  to  the  Convention,  but 
this  was  temporarily  refused  by  Lord  St.  Helens. 

Lord  Hawkesbury  having  obligingly  shewed  me  the  Convention, 
you  may  depend  upon  the  authenticity  of  the  foregoing  abstract 
of  it.     The  issue  of  the  negotiation  is  satisfactory  to   England, 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  489 

and  the  returning  of  the  Baltic  Fleet,  which  takes  place  immedi- 
ately, will  be  a  circumstance  of  importance  at  the  present  moment, 
when  notwithstanding  all  that  is  said  of  the  negotiation  between 
France  and  England,  great  and  extensive  preparations  are  making 
to  invade  the  British  Islands. 

Lord  St.  Helens  is  rewarded  with  a  British  Peerage  ;  he  was 
before  an  Irish  Peer. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

{Private.) 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  July  14,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

I  am  truly  obliged  to  your  Lordship  for  the  opportunity  you 
have  given  me  to  see  the  Convention  with  Russia.  Holding  the 
opinions  I  uniformly  have  done,  in  respect  to  the  justice  and  im- 
portance of  the  right,  for  which  England  has  on  this  occasion 
been  forced  to  contend,  I  am  gratified  with,  and  feel  sincere 
pleasure  in  offering  to  your  Lordship  my  cordial  congratulations 
upon  the  safe  and  honourable  manner  in  which  the  business  has 
been  concluded. 

For  the  sake  of  justice,  as  well  as  on  account  of  the  welfare  of 
England,  and,  I  may  add,  of  my  own  country,  I  rejoice  that  an 
ill-understood  and  insidious  question  is  at  length  put  completely 
at  rest. 

With  Sincere  Esteem  &  Respect  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Sir  Wm.  Scott. 

{Private?) 

M.  H.,  July  14,  1801. 

Dear  Sir  : 

Lord  H.  having  obligingly  shewn  me  the  Convention  with  Rus- 
sia, I  have  much  pleasure  from  personal  as  well  as  public  con- 
siderations in  offering  to  you  my  cordial  congratulations  upon  the 


490  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

satisfactory  manner  in  which  this  affair  has  been  concluded.  You 
know  my  way  of  thinking  in  respect  to  the  Principles  and  Views 
of  the  Northern  League,  &  will  therefore  be  convinced  that  I  re- 
joice with  you  that  an  insidious  question  with  which  you  and 
others  might  hereafter  have  been  troubled  has  been  finally  de- 
cided ;  for  I  hope  and  believe  we  shall  never  again  hear  of  it. 

Very  faithfully  &c 

Rufus  King. 


Sir  W.  Scott  to  R.  King. 

July  16,  1801. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  thank  you  for  your  obliging  Congratulations  on  the  business 
of  the  North.  You  will  easily  suppose  that  I  have  my  share  of 
personal  satisfaction  in  receiving  them.  I  hope  &  trust  that  Den- 
mark &  Sweden  will  come  in  ;  unless  they  are  enthusiastically 
bigoted  in  favour  of  Notions,  which  are  utterly  unsupportable  (as 
well  upon  the  footing  of  their  own  particular  Treaties  as  on  that 
of  General  Law)  I  think  they  must  be  disposed  to  close  this  dis- 
agreeable matter  upon  the  terms  proposed  which,  in  my  appre- 
hension, are  liberal  enough  on  the  Part  of  this  Country.  I  hope 
&  believe  your  Peace  of  mind  is  not  at  all  disturbed  by  the  con- 
tents of  one  little  Gazette  of  last  night. 

I  am  with  my  compts.  to  Mrs.  King — very  faithfully  yours 

W.  Scott. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  27. 

London,  July  20,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  Court  of  Appeals  having  reversed  several  decrees  of  con- 
demnation pronounced  in  the  Vice- Admiralty  Court  of  Bermuda, 
Monitions  were  as  usual  issued  against  the  Captors,  and  instruc- 
tions sent  with  them  to  our  Agent  at  Bermuda,  to  apply  for  and 
return  the  names  of  the  Captors'  Sureties  in  order  that  process 


l8oi]  LIFE  AND    CORRESPONDENCE.  49 1 

might,  if  necessary,  be  obtained  against  them  likewise.  Upon  ap- 
plication for  this  purpose  to  the  court  of  Vice-Admiralty,  the 
Judge  refused  to  permit  the  disclosure,  alledging  that  the  Bonds 
were  given  to  enforce  obedience  to  the  King's  instructions,  and 
not  for  the  purpose  of  satisfying  Damages  which  might  be  decreed 
to  the  claimants  in  the  Prize  Courts. 

The  Agent  having  made  an  affidavit  of  this  refusal  before  the 
Governor  of  Bermuda  some  time  ago  sent  it  with  a  letter,  the  copy 
of  which  is  annexed,  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Tho'  I  have  received  no  official  answer,  I  have  been  informed 
that  upon  a  reference  of  the  case  to  the  Law  Officers  of  the 
Crown,  they  considered  the  Judge's  refusal  to  be  a  denial  of  Jus- 
tice and  recommended  that  he  should  be  removed  from  his  office. 

As  the  Judge  at  Bermuda  goes  out  with  the  rest  of  his  col- 
leagues in  the  West  Indies,  by  the  reform  of  the  Vice-Admiralty 
Courts,  I  presume  the  recommendation  will  not  be  acted  upon  ; 
and  I  am  led  to  mention  the  subject,  chiefly  with  the  view  of  ex- 
plaining the  difficulties  in  respect  to  the  process  of  the  Court  of 
Appeals,  which  are  now  removed  by  the  Act  for  the  regulation  of 
the  Prize  Courts  in  the  West  Indies  and  America,  and  for  giving 
a  more  speedy  and  effectual  execution  to  the  Decrees  of  the  Lords 
Commissioners  of  Appeals.  I  have  sent  you  copies  of  this  Act  as 
it  has  finally  passed  which,  if  fairly  executed  as  I  hope  it  will  be, 
must  go  far  to  correct  many  of  the  abuses,  which  we  have  hitherto 
sustained  :  the  second  section  is  an  important  addition  to  the  Bill 
as  it  was  first  reported,  by  preventing  the  captured  property  from 
getting  into  the  hands  of  the  Captors,  before  by  the  final  sentence 
they  become  alike  interested  with  the  claimants  to  hasten  the 
trial  instead  of  delaying  it,  as  with  the  possession  and  use  of  the 
property  they  were  accustomed  to  do.  The  other  provision  which 
I  was  solicitous  to  obtain,  requiring  that  all  captured  vessels 
should  be  taken  into  one  of  the  Colonies,  in  which  the  Courts  are 
to  be  established,  has  not  been  accepted.  If  it  had  been,  the 
Business  of  the  Privateers  from  the  Bermudas  and  the  Bahamas 
would  no  longer  have  been  pursued  with  profit  ;  and  as  the  law 
stands,  it  will  be  materially  discouraged. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem,  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


492  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

R.  King  to  C.  and  Mrs.  Gore  in  Paris. 

Mill  Hill,  July  23,  1801. 
My  Dear  Friends  : 

.  .  .  Pinkney  said  in  reason  that  a  Lord's  fortnight  must  be 
understood  to  be  longer  than  a  Commoner's  ;  the  literal  engage- 
ment expires  to-day  ;  as  yet  I  have  heard  nothing  farther  from  my 
Lord,  tho'  I  do  confidently  expect  a  decision  soon.  What  it  will 
be  is  another  point ;  I  have  no  particular  reason  to  apprehend  it 
will  be  unfavourable  ;  on  this  head  things  remain  as  you  left 
them  ;  several  little  measures  have  been  adopted  which  wd.  en- 
courage the  hope  of  a  satisfactory  settlement  rather  than  other- 
wise.    .     .     . 

On  learning  that  Dale  was  going  with  a  small  squadron  of 
Frigates  to  the  Mediterranean,  notice  was  given  to  me,  and  by  me 
sent  to  America  that  orders  had  been  sent  to  the  naval  and  other 
officers  at  Gib.  Minorca  &  Malta  to  receive  and  treat  our  Ships 
with  Hospitality  and  to  supply  them  from  the  King's  magazines 
with  what  their  necessities  might  require.  All  this  is  very  well, 
and  in  case  it  is  followed  up  by  a  satisfactory  settlement  of  the 
points  we  have  been  so  long  discussing,  I  shd.  think  and  speak 
well  of  the  good  sense  and  foresight  of  the  men  who  shall  advise 
it.  On  the  whole  I  am  inclined  to  hope  that  this  will  be  the  case  ; 
and  for  the  mutual  advantage  of  the  Parties  I  earnestly  wish  it 
may.  My  patience  is  at  times  nearly  exhausted,  but  I  endeavour 
to  recruit  and  preserve  it.  From  home  I  have  no  particular  or 
personal  intelligence.  I  have  said  nothing  nor  has  anything  been 
said  to  me.     .     .     . 

Affectionately  &  always  yours 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  R.  Troup. 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  July  26,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  At  present  we  have  no  other  conversation  except  about 
the  menaced  invasion,  preparations  for  which  are  carried  on  with 
great  activity,  but  with  so  much  eclat  as  leads  many  to  doubt 
whether  anything  will  be  attempted.  The  ports  in  wh.  the  arma- 
ments are  making  are  closely  blockaded,  the  whole  channel  is 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  493 

covered  with  Br.  Pendants,  and  how  the  Invaders  are  to  pass  them 
is  quite  beyond  my  comprehension. 

Very  faithfully 

R.  K. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  28. 

London,  July  30,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Although  the  military  preparations  are  such  on  both  sides,  as 
wholly  to  engross  the  public  attention  and  inspire  a  very  general 
belief  that  an  invasion  will  be  shortly  attempted  by  the  French, 
I  am  still  incredulous  and  disposed  rather  to  seek  for  the  real 
object  in  some  other  quarter,  and  which  these  demonstrations  are 
meant  to  conceal.  It  is  needless  to  trouble  you  with  my  conjec- 
tures, more  especially  as  those  who  ought  to  possess  the  best 
means  of  judging  give  to  these  appearances  a  meaning  which  I 
am  yet  to  be  persuaded  is  the  true  one. 

Whether  Gautheaume  succeeded  in  landing  a  reinforcement  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Alexandria,  or  has  returned  to  Toulon 
without  effecting  it,  is  matter  of  doubt.  No  accounts  have  been 
received  from  Egypt  since  those  of  the  1st  of  June,  which  state 
the  repulse  of  the  French  by  the  Turks,  in  the  vicinity  of  Cairo. 
Up  to  this  date,  the  Difficulties  of  the  French  had  continued  to 
encrease. 

Sweden  has  officially  notified  to  this  country  her  accession  to 
the  Convention  with  Russia,  and  Denmark  will  without  doubt 
follow  her  example. 

A  letter  from  Mr.  Cathcart  to  our  Consul  here,  announces  the 

formal  Declaration  of  war  against  the  United  States  by  Tripoli  on 

the  14th  of  May. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 
G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

July  30,  1801. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  am  greatly  pleased  with  the  information  you  have  given  me  in 
your  favor  of  9th  May.  Many  of  our  good  men  have  been  irri- 
tated by  the  wanton  abuses  of  the  British  Cruisers  &  Courts  & 


494  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

shou'd  the  war  continue  it  will  be  immensely  important  in  a  politi- 
cal view  that  these  shou'd  cease.  We  are  now  a  Democracy  with 
a  Democratic  Chief  who  may  be  impelled  by  the  worst  men 
of  his  party  if  the  circumstances  of  the  times  shou'd  be  favorable 
to  such  men.  The  spirit  of  our  Country  is  doubtless  more  demo- 
cratic than  the  form  of  our  Government  &  hitherto  the  former 
has  been  restrained  by  the  latter  from  those  excesses  to  which  it 
naturally  tends  ; — but  we  are  to  look  now  for  the  ordinary  effects 
of  popular  power  guided  by  mistaken  men  or  men  of  unprincipled 
ambition, — by  Brissotins  or  Maratists  :  the  physical  condition  of 
our  Country  however  as  well  as  its  habits  &  manners  afford 
ground  to  hope  that  we  shall  fall  far  short  of  France  in  the 
extent  of  our  Cancer  &  that  we  shall  escape  some  of  their  worst 
misfortunes. 

I  approve  the  predilection  you  feel  for  our  Country  &  if  it  were 
a  prejudice  I  wou'd  wish  it  to  be  perpetuated  rather  than  extir- 
pated. But  in  proportion  to  your  attachment  to  its  welfare  must 
be  your  chagrin  to  see  us  acting  the  same  fooleries  which  have 
disgraced  &  finally  destroyed  so  many  Free  States  before  us.  .  .  . 
You  see  I  detest  France  &  Frenchmen  more  than  ever.  Still  I 
consent  freely  that  you  visit  the  Land  of  Abominations  not  in  the 
least  doubting  you  will  be  amused  &  edified,  &  in  no  danger  of 
being  corrupted, — go  therefore  &  be  happy  !  &  tell  us  when  you 
return  whether  Milton  has  truly  described  the  Characters  of 
Pandemonium's  Council  in  his  2d  Book.* 

Adieu. 

J.  Hale  to  R.  King. 

Boston,  August  6,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  In  this  interim  nothing  very  important  has  occurred. 
Mr.  Jefferson's  inaugural  speech  is  very  clearly  expounded  in  his 
answer  to  the  New-Haven  remonstrance.  In  certain  general 
propositions  all  mankind  are  agreed.  Their  application  dis- 
tinguishes the   man  of   sense   &   judgment   from    the  visionary 

*  Mr.  King  had  proposed,  if  he  left  his  post  in  London,  to  take  a  tour  on 
the  Continent  before  returning  home,  and  had  written  so  to  his  corresponden 
in  the  United  States. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  495 

theorist.  Mr.  J's  soundness  in  a  political  view  was  not  to  be 
expected.  But  that  he  would  be  left  deliberately  to  betray  so 
much  vanity,  folly,  weakness  &  presumption  as  the  answer  is  re- 
plete with,  few  of  his  most  bitter  enemies  could  have  predicted. 

Perhaps  no  man  ever  entered  upon  the  administration  of  a  free 
government  under  more  favorable  auspices  than  Mr.  Jefferson. 
His  political  opponents  were  ready  to  support  him  in  that  part  of 
his  duty  against  which  popular  clamour  is  naturally  excited.  The 
mobocracy,  to  whose  blind  impulse  directed  by  aristocratic  sans- 
culottism,  he  owed  his  elevation,  were  stupidly  bent  to  yield  an 
implicit  confidence  in  the  idol  of  their  creating.  The  support  of 
the  farmers,  the  respectable  part  of  the  community,  Mr.  Jefferson 
publicly  declares  to  the  Merchants  of  New  Haven  he  wishes  to 
dispense  with.  Let  him  go  on  with  his  heads  of  department,  all 
experienced  statesmen,  not  to  mention  the  honble.  Mr.  Lincoln  of 
Worcester. 

Hitherto  I  have  wished  your  longer  continuance  at  the  Court 
of  St.  James,  but  the  sooner  you  return  home  the  more  agreeable 
will  it  now  be  to  me.  George  Erving  may  be  charge  d'affaires  & 
answer  all  the  purposes  of  our  wise  administration. 

Your  friend  &  obed.  Servt. 
Joseph  Hale. 

R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  8th  Augt.,  1801. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Mr.  Jefferson  in  direct  contradiction  of  his  inaugural 
speech  is  pretty  generally  displacing  the  federalists.  In  this 
district  the  officers  of  Collector,  Supervisor,  Marshal,  and  Attor- 
ney of  the  district  are  filled  by  new  men.  .  .  .  Mr.  Jef- 
ferson's answer  to  the  New  Haven  remonstrance,  will  show  you 
that  the  system  of  displacing  is  the  avowed  system  of  the  govern- 
ment. This  system  will  be  followed  by  our  new  Governor  (Clin- 
ton) and  his  Council  who  are  now  in  session  at  Albany.     .     . 

Burr  is  conjectured  to  be  a  laying  a  trap  for  Jefferson,  and  he 
has  the  credit  of  secretly  goading  on  Jefferson  to  pursue  a  violent 
course.  Gelston  is  Burr's  devoted  tool ;  and  it  is  difficult  to 
conceive  that  his  influence  has  not  been  at  work  to  procure 
Gelston's  appointment.     .     .     . 


496  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 

Hamilton  is  supremely  disgusted  with  the  state  of  our  political 
affairs.  He  has  all  along  said  and  still  maintains  the  opinion  that 
Jefferson  and  his  party  had  not  talents  or  virtue  sufficient  to  admin- 
ister the  government  well ;  and  he  entertains  no  doubt  that  they 
will  finally  ruin  our  affairs  and  plunge  us  into  serious  commo- 
tions. Although  he  does  not  think  this  result  will  immediately 
take  place,  yet  he  predicts  it  is  not  so  remote  as  many  might  im- 
agine. He  assures  me  that  nothing  short  of  a  general  convulsion 
will  again  call  him  into  public  life. 

Lands  are  looking  up.  All  your  friends  are  receiving  monies 
from  them — some  more  some  less.     .     .     . 

The  Chancellor  will  not  embark  for  France  until  October.  He 
assures  me  you  are  not  to  be  recalled  till  your  eight  years  ex- 
pire.    This  seems  to  be  a  limitation  fixed  by  the  government  to 

all  embassies.     .     .     . 

R.  T. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

August  14,  1 801. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  just  reed  your  favor  of  the  8th  June.  Mr.  Ellsworth 
had  given  me  more  information  concerning  France  than  I  had 
been  able  to  collect  from  every  other  source  ;  I  think  however  he 
errs  a  little,  where  almost  every  other  man  errs  a  great  deal,  in 
overrating  the  power  of  France  &  underrating  that  of  England. 
I  hope  you  will  not  think  me  mad  if  I  tell  you  I  am  not  recon- 
ciled to  peace,  on  the  contrary  if  England  can  carry  on  the  war 
she  ought  to  persist  'till  France  is  reduced  from  her  exorbitant 
powers  to  a  state  that  shall  consist  with  the  safety  &  indepen- 
dence of  others — it  may  be  said  that  the  immense  efforts  England 
makes  cannot  be  kept  up  against  the  nation  but  it  appears  to  me 
the  Govt,  will  not  be  justified  by  this  plea  if  they  make  a  peace  & 
that  peace  shou'd  bring  the  evil  it  threatens.  ...  If  an  Army 
of  100,000  men  under  Bonaparte  were  ready  at  every  hazard  to 
cross  the  Channel,  undoubtedly  England  wou'd  find  means  to 
meet  them  on  Sea  &  on  Shore  with  enough  to  beat  them.  Now 
a  greater  danger  than  this  is  wrapped  up  in  the  peace.  For  my 
own  part  I  have  always  rejoiced  at  every  threat  of  invasion  on  this 
account,  that  it  changed  the  public  danger  from  an  invisible  to  a 


l8oi]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  497 

visible  shape.  The  British  Empire  woud  be  invincible  &  woud 
finally  limit  the  power  of  France  if  the  Govt  can  use  the  resources 
&  direct  the  Spirit  of  the  Nation. 

You  will  see  by  our  papers  that  our  new  Chief  is  less  wise  than 
we  thought  him  &  yet  we  have  been  censured  for  depretiating  his 
wisdom — in  his  answer  to  the  New-Haven  Remonstrants  he  has 
intimated  pretty  plainly  his  design  to  persecute  the  Washington 
Sect.  I  have  good  reason  to  believe  the  present  Admin,  will  be 
very  diligent  in  searching  for  the  faults  of  their  Predecessors,  & 
in  the  infinitude  of  transactions  in  the  public  offices  it  wou'd  be 
strange  if  a  sufficiency  of  materials  cou'd  not  be  found  to  in- 
flame the  Country.  There  may  be  many  cases  in  which  what  was 
done  was  the  best  that  cou'd  be  done  at  the  time,  but  which  in 
this  distant  retrospect  may  appear  to  be  quite  otherwise.  If  they 
are  base  enough,  as  I  fear  they  are,  to  conduct  in  this  manner  I 
shall  not  be  surprised  to  see  the  former  System  &  many  of  its 
best  supporters  render'd  odious  to  the  majority  of  the  community 
for  a  ti?ne.  This  was  the  way  in  the  Democracies  of  old  times  ; 
of  France  in  new  times  &  it  must  be  because  it  is  human  nature 
&  therefore  belongs  to  all  times.  Our  affairs  however  are  better 
than  cou'd  have  been  expected  in  many  other  respects  for  which 
I  thank  God  who  certainly  takes  as  much  care  of  us  as  we  deserve 
&  much  more  &  better  than  we  can  take  for  ourselves,  but  they 
must  grow  worse  &  worse  before  they  can  become  essentially 

better.     .     .     . 

Yours  Sincerely  &  affectionately 

G.  C. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  29. 

London,  Aug.  14,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  the  honour  to  send   you,  inclosed  copies  of  a  letter 

which  I  have  lately  received  from  Mr.  John  Turnbull  and  of  the 

order  of  Council  therein  referred  to.*     Mr.  Turnbull  is  the  head 

of  the  respectable  Commercial  House  of  Turnbull,  Forbes    & 

*  Proclamation,  "at  the  court  of  Weymouth  the  30th  July,  1801,  Present 
the  King's  most  excellent  Majesty  in  Council,"  of  the  Port  of  Malta  as  a  Free 
Port. 

VOL.   III. — 32 


498  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Compy.,  and  chairman  of  the  Committee  of  London  merchants 
which  is  the  channel  of  the  communications  of  the  several  manu- 
facturing towns  and  the  Government.  I  have  no  other  knowledge 
of  Mr.  Higgins  than  thro'  this  communication  of  Mr.  Turnbull. 

In  the  Ship  Calliope,  Watson,  Master,  bound  to  Philadelphia, 
I  have  sent  a  Box,  directed  to  you,  and  containing  an  Atlas  in  5 
volumes  collected  by  Arrowsmith.  One  of  the  Bills  of  Lading 
has  been  forwarded  to  the  Collector  of  Philadelphia,  with  a 
request  that  he  would  receive  and  send  the  Box  to  the  Depart- 
ment of  State  :  another  you  will  receive  herewith.  A  second 
collection  of  maps  and  charts  is  preparing  by  Faden  and  will 
likewise  be  forwarded  to  your  Department  as  soon  as  it  shall  be 
completed.  These  Collections  have  been  several  months  pre- 
paring pursuant  to  the  instructions  of  Col.  Pickering  and  Mr. 
Dexter. 

With  perfect  Respect,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

(Copy.) 

J.  Turnbull  to  R.  King. 

London,  10  Aug.,  1807. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  beg  leave  to  transmit  to  you  herewith  the  Draft,  which  Sir 
Stephen  Cottrell  has  sent  me  this  morning,  of  the  Order  of  Coun- 
cil to  make  Malta  a  free  Port.  This  measure,  I  hope,  will  be 
serviceable  in  many  respects  to  the  Trade  of  the  United  States. 
The  situation  of  that  Island  is  well  adapted  for  the  rendezvous 
of  Ships  of  war,  to  overawe  the  piratical  States,  and  very  particu- 
lar instructions  have  been  given  for  the  proper  Management  of 
the  Lazarettos.  ...  A  Person  of  Experience  and  intelligence 
has  been  sent  to  take  charge  of  them,  and  Ministers  have  such 
confidence  in  his  care  and  attention  to  examine  and  air  the  goods, 
that  Cargoes  coming  with  a  clean  bill  of  health  from  Malta,  will 
be  admitted  to  immediate  Prattic  in  England.  My  connections, 
both  in  a  public  and  private  capacity,  with  the  Trade  in  the 
Mediterranean,  having  had  a  house  at  Gibraltar  for  nearly  Forty 
years,  have  enabled  me  to  form  an  establishment  at  Malta  under 
the  direction  of  Mr.  William  Higgins.  If  the  President  of  the 
United  States  should  not  have  appointed  any  one  to  be  American 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  499 


Consul  at  Malta,  and  would  do  Mr.  Higgins  the  honour  to  give 
him  that  nomination,  I  would  with  great  pleasure  be  answerable 
for  his  conduct  in  every  respect.  I  should  be  extremely  obliged 
to  you,  Sir,  to  have  the  goodness  to  recommend  him  for  that  pur- 
pose. Messrs.  Mackenzie  and  Glennie  have  lodged  a  Credit  to 
my  House  at  Gibraltar,  and  which  will  be  equally  attended  to  at 
Malta,  for  furnishing  to  the  American  Fleet  what  supplies  they 
may  be  in  want  of,  during  their  continuance  in  the  Mediterranean, 
of  Money,  Provisions  and  Stores. 

With  sincere  regard  &c. 

John  Turnbull. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  30. 

London,  Aug.  20,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  am  glad  to  learn  from  letters  which  I  have  received  from 
Mr.  Murray  and  Mr.  Dawson,  that  the  exchange  of  Ratifications 
has  at  length  been  satisfactorily  completed  at  Paris. 

The  inclosed  letter  from  Mr.  Eaton*  communicates  the  latest 

information   which  I  have  seen  of  the  situation  of  our  affairs  at 

Tunis.     A  recurrence  to  my   former  correspondence   with  the 

Department  of  State  will  show  the  reluctance  with  which  1  have 

engaged  in  the  execution  of  Mr.  Eaton's  orders,  which  indeed  I 

declined   doing   until   the    President's   instructions  left   me   no 

alternative. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Answer  by  R.  King  to  Mr.  Eaton's  Letter  to  Secretary  of 
State  and  copy  to  R.  King. 

R.  King  to  William  Eaton,  Esq. 

London,  Aug.  20,  1801. 
Sir: 

I  have  duly  received  your  letters  of  the  23d,  24th  and  27th  of 

May,  and  am  much  concerned  that  the  cloths,  and  other  articles 

shipped  by  Mawhood  &  Co.,  are  not  of  the  quality  you  expected  ; 

*  To  Secretary  of  State  and  Rufus  King. 


500  RUFUS  KING.  Ll8ci 

these  Gentlemen  state  in  their  own  justification,  that  they  exe- 
cuted the  order  received  from  you  with  as  great  precision  as  it 
was  in  their  power,  and  that  it  would  have  been  as  convenient 
for  them  to  have  sent  cloths  of  a  superior  quality,  as  those 
which  you  have  received.  I  ought,  moreover,  to  add  that  they 
showed  me  the  samples  of  the  goods  which  they  shipped,  and 
asked  my  opinion  respecting  their  fitness  ;  but  as  I  had  no  means 
of  judging,  I  desired  them  to  follow  your  instructions  as  closely 
as  possible.  Agreeably  to  your  desire,  I  have  requested  Mr. 
Hargreaves  to  choose  such  cloths  as  are  suitable  for  the  purpose 
for  which  you  intend  them  :  this  he  has  been  good  enough  to  do, 
and  the  Cloths  are  now  packing  and  will  be  forwarded  by  Maw- 
hood  &  Co.,  by  the  first  opportunity  that  shall  offer  for  Minorca, 
Malta,  or  Tunis. 

It  was  an  omission  in  these  Gentlemen  that  they  did  not  send 
an  invoice  of  their  former  shipment.  Having  desired  them  to 
send  one  to  me,  I  now  inclose  it  to  you.  No  part  of  the  order 
except  the  Woolens,  will  be  executed  anew.  The  Jewels  are 
nearly  finished  and  will  I  hope  be  completed  in  time  to  go  by 
Mr.  Hargreaves,  if  he  do  not  return  through  France  ;  in  this 
case  they  will  be  sent  in  the  best  way  that  shall  occur.  With 
this  order  Mawhood  &  Co.  have  no  concern  ;  it  will  be  executed 
by  Mortimer  and  by  Rundle  &  Bridges. 

With  great  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV. 

King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury — Project  of  Convention  concerning  6th  Article 
agreed  to — Hopes  other  Questions  will  soon  be  settled — King  to  Secretary 
of  State — Conference  with  Lord  Hawkesbury — The  Awards  in  full  Satis- 
faction of  all  Claims — Lord  Hawkesbury  saw  no  material  Objection  to  Set- 
tlement of  all  other  Questions,  except  relative  to  the  Port  of  New  Orleans — 
Commission  under  7th  Article  to  reassemble — King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury 
— Detention  of  American  Vessels,  instead  of  warning  them  of  Blockade  of 
French  Ports,  and  demands  Release  of  the  Vessels — King  to  S.  Hanbury 
— Maryland  Bank  Stock — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Blockade  of  Havre 
— Continental  Affairs — To  Lord  Hawkesbury — Demanding  Release  of  an 
American  Seaman  about  to  be  tried  for  Mutiny — Cabot  to  King — Often 
able  to  supply  Facts,  etc.,  through  him,  but  without  compromising  him — 
England's  Empire  of  the  Sea  renders  her  invincible — Wilberforce  to  King 
— Desires  a  general  Abolition  of  the  slave  Trade — Hopes  for  Help  from 
Bonaparte — King  to  Lords  Hawkesbury  and  Eldon  pressing  for  a  Settle- 
ment of  Claims — Troup  to  King,  about  William  Coleman — Cabot  to  King 
— Always  avoided  compromising  him — Glad  he  will  remain  in  England — 
Neutral  Rights — Mr.  Erving — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Continental 
Affairs — Concordat  of  France  with  the  Pope  important  to  the  Stability  of 
the  First  Consul — To  Lord  Eldon — Maryland  Bank  Stock — Dawson's 
Notification  to  King  that  the  President  wishes  him  to  remain — Anecdote  of 
Rumford. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Aug.  20,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  the  honour  to  send  your  Lordship  herewith  the  Project 
of  a  Convention  concerning  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  1794, 
drawn  up  according  to  the  tenor  of  our  Conference  of  yesterday. 
I  am  not  aware  that  any  part  of  it  requires  explanation,  except 
the  clause  on  the  first  Article,  declaratory  of  the  relative  value  of 
the  Money  of  the  United  States  and  that  of  Great  Britain  ;  from 

501 


502  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

the  fluctuation  of  the  Exchange  between  America  and  England, 
Bills  at  one  time  commanding  a  premium  of  five  or  seven  per 
cent,  and  at  another  time,  being  at  a  discount  of  eight  and  even 
Ten  percent,  I  have  thought  it  would  be  advisable  to  provide  that 
the  installments  should  be  paid  at  par,  having  regard  to  the  rela- 
tive value  of  the  pure  or  Standard  Silver,  contained  in  our  respec- 
tive coins  ;  four  dollars  and  forty  four  cents  or  hundredths  for 
one  Pound  Sterling,  is  that  par. 

I  take  the  liberty  of  suggesting  the  expediency  of  our  executing 
three  originals  to  guard  against  the  accidents  which  might  attend 
the  transmission  of  a  single  copy  to  America. 

As  the  claim  of  the  State  of  Maryland  is  so  analogous  to  the 
claims  provided  for  by  this  Convention,  I  rely  upon  it  that  no 
farther  delay  or  difficulty  will  attend  the  completion  of  the  pro- 
posed articles  upon  that  and  the  other  subjects,  concerning  which 
no  difference  of  opinion  appeared  in  our  last  conference. 
With  perfect  Consideration  &  Respect  &c.  &c 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  32. 

London,  Aug.  24,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Although  I  considered  myself  authorized  by  Mr.  Lincoln's 
Letter  of  the  25th  of  April  to  press  the  negotiation  respecting  the 
6th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  1794,  to  a  conclusion  upon  the  Terms 
mentioned  in  my  No.  6.,  it  has  nevertheless  been  no  small  satisfac- 
tion to  me  to  receive  your  letter  of  the  15th  of  June,  containing 
the  President's  explicit  sanction  of  my  intentions  upon  this 
subject. 

The  day  after  receiving  it  Lord  Hawkesbury,  having  previously 
requested  me  to  meet  him  in  Downing  Street,  informed  me  that 
the  Cabinet,  after  maturely  considering  the  subject,  was  unani- 
mously of  opinion  that  not  less  than  a  million  and  a  half  Sterling 
could  be  deemed  a  full  equivalent  for  the  abolition  of  the  6th 
Article  ;  but  that  from  a  strong  and  sincere  desire  to  attain  an 
amicable  and  final  Settlement  of  the  Business,  it  had  consented 
to  accept  the  Sum  we  had  offered,  if  the  terms  of  payment  could 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  503 

be  satisfactorily  adjusted,  and  Provision  made  that  the  American 
Courts  should  be  open  in  future. 

A  conversation  of  some  length  and  difficulty  ensued  upon  these 
two  points.  Among  other  plans  that  of  applying  the  money  in 
payment  of  the  awards  which  should  be  made  in  favour  of  our 
citizens  under  the  Seventh  Article  was  suggested  by  me,  and  de- 
cidedly objected  to  by  Lord  Hawkesbury,  on  the  ground  that  it 
would  produce  confusion,  and  was  moreover  an  unnecessary 
departure  from  the  first  Agreements. 

His  Lordship  proposed  that  we  should  engage  to  enact  a  Law, 
providing  that  our  Courts  should  in  future  be  open  to  the  British 
Creditors,  and  that  the  Federal  Courts  should  have  original  juris- 
diction in  cases  under  Ten  pounds  Sterling.  To  this  proposition, 
after  explaining  what  I  conceived  to  be  the  present  satisfactory 
footing  of  our  Courts,  I  explicitly  answered  that  having  experi- 
enced so  much  difficulty  from  the  Stipulations  heretofore  made 
concerning  the  old  Debts,  we  could  not  consent  to  enter  into  any 
new  ones  respecting  them  ;  that  the  Treaty  of  Peace  was  still  in 
force,  and  that  its  provisions  were  well  understood  and  sufficient 
to  protect  the  Rights  of  the  Creditors  on  both  sides  ;  that  the 
Sum  be  paid  in  lieu  of  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  1794,  must 
be  understood  to  be  in  full  satisfaction  of  all  Claims  recoverable 
at  the  close  of  the  war,  but  which  cannot  now  be  recovered  in 
the  ordinary  course  of  Judicial  Proceedings  ;  and  in  respect  to 
such  claims  as  can  now  be  recovered,  nothing  more  can  fairly  be 
required  of  us  than  to  recognize  the  future  operation  of  the 
Fourth  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace  which  we  were  willing  to 
do.  The  Conference,  so  far  as  respects  these  points,  was  here 
closed,  by  Lord  Hawkesbury's  requesting  me  to  draw  up  and  send 
him  the  Project  of  a  Convention  conforming  to  the  tenor  of  this 
conversation  ;  this  I  lost  no  time  in  doing. 

The  Project  which  has  been  several  days  in  his  Lordship's 
hands  provides  that  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  1794,  shall 
be  cancelled  and  annulled  and  in  lieu  thereof  that  the  United 
States  will  pay  at  the  City  of  Washington  to  such  Person,  as  shall 
be  authorized,  on  the  part  of  his  Britannic  Majesty  to  receive  the 
same  the  sum  of  Six  Hundred  Thousand  Pounds  Sterling,  in 
three  equal  annual  installments,  without  interest,  the  first  install- 
ment to  be  paid  in  one  year  after  the  Exchange  of  the  Ratifica- 


504  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 


tions  of  the  Convention,  and  four  dollars  and  forty  four  cents  to 
be  reckoned  equal  to  a  Pound  Sterling.  The  Project  likewise 
declares  that  nothing  in  the  convention  shall  be  construed  to 
abolish  or  suspend  the  future  operation  of  the  Fourth  Article  of 
the  Treaty  of  Peace,  which,  so  far  as  regards  such  future  opera- 
tion, is  recognized  and  confirmed. 

It  was  Lord  Hawkesbury's  choice  to  give  to  this  settlement 
the  form  of  a  separate  convention  rather  than  that  of  additional 
Articles.  In  respect  to  the  proposed  additional  Articles  relative 
to  Contraband,  the  Maryland  Bank  Stock,  the  Impressment  of 
Seamen  and  the  Port  of  New  Orleans,  Lord  Hawkesbury  told  me 
that  he  foresaw  no  material  objection  to  any  of  them  except  that 
which  regards  New  Orleans  :  that  they  were  truly  desirous  to 
avoid  the  interruption  of  the  Trade  of  our  People  through  the 
Mississippi,  but  that  having  reason  to  be  satisfied  that  Spain  has 
ceded  the  Floridas,  including  New  Orleans,  to  France,  they  could 
not,  without  disregarding  their  own  security,  consent  to  the  pro- 
posed Article  concerning  our  Trade  to  that  Island. 

I  expressed  my  hope  and  expectation  that  there  would  be  no 
farther  delay  in  the  conclusion  of  the  other  additional  articles  : 
he  replied,  that  he  must  take  the  final  decision  of  his  colleagues, 
especially  of  Lord  St.  Vincent,  concerning  them,  as  well  as  upon 
the  project  of  the  convention  :  that  this,  however,  would  require 
but  a  few  days.  I  then  observed  that  the  settlement  concerning 
the  6th  Article,  would  remove  the  Suspension  of  the  Commission 
under  the  seventh  ;  and  as  the  Commissioners  under  this  Article 
were  dispersed,  it  would  be  proper  to  take  immediate  measures  to 
reassemble  them.  Lord  Hawkesbury  assented,  and  I  charged 
myself  with  this  service.  I  thought  it  prudent  to  avoid  the  ap- 
pearance of  solicitude  upon  this  head,  as  the  commutation  of  the 
6th  Article,  with  an  understanding  that  the  seventh  is  to  be 
executed  according  to  its  provisions,  instead  of  being  likewise 
commuted,  which  has  again  and  again  been  urged,  has  been  one 
of  the  most  delicate  parts  of  the  negotiation.  I  have  prepared 
and  sent  to  Lord  Hawkesbury  a  Draught  of  the  additional  ar- 
ticles, and  Lord  St.  Vincent  has  since  informed  me  that  they 
shall  receive  his  approbation. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


i8oi]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  $05 

R.  King  to  General  Deareorn. 

London,  Aug.  25,  1801. 
Sir: 

I  yesterday  received  your  letter  of  June  6th,  and  will  without 
delay  take  measures  to  execute  your  Commission.  Dr.  Hutton's 
work,  of  which  I  have  heard  a  good  character,  shall  be  immedi- 
ately forwarded  to  New  York,  agreeably  to  your  directions. 
Some  little  time  may  be  requisite  to  select  the  military  works 
of  reputation  from  the  mass  of  old  and  new  Books  upon  the 
subject  of  war  to  be  met  with  in  this  Country.  I  have  taken 
great  pains  to  procure  two  collections  of  maps  and  charts  for  the 
use  of  your  Department  and  the  Department  of  State.  One  set 
is  already  forwarded  to  the  address  of  Mr.  Madison  ;  the  other 
will  go  forward  as  soon  as  it  is  ready  :  they  will  be  found  to  con- 
tain almost  all  the  good  Maps  and  Charts  published  in  the  dif- 
ferent States  of  Europe. 

It  will  afford  me  great  pleasure  to  render  to  your  Department 
any  assistance  in  my  Power,  and  I  beg  you  to  be  assured,  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Aug.  29,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

I  have  had  the  honour  to  receive  your  Lordship's  note  of  the 
26th  instant,  enclosing  the  Report  of  the  King's  Advocate  General 
respecting  the  American  Ship  Frederick  detained  off  the  Port  of 
Havre  de  Grace  and  sent  into  Portsmouth. 

Without  entering  into  the  reasoning  of  the  Advocate  General 
tending  to  show  the  inconvenience  of  suffering  Neutrals,  after 
notice  given  to  their  Government  of  the  institution  of  Blockade, 
to  excuse  themselves  when  met  on  their  voyage  to  such  blockaded 
Port,  by  alleging  an  intention  to  enquire  at  the  entrance  of  such 
Port,  whether  the  same  be  blockaded  or  not ;  I  rely  upon  your 
Lordship's  justice  to  point  out  the  distinction  between  the  sup- 
posed case,  upon  which  the  Report  of  the  Advocate  General  is 
founded,  and  the  real  and  different  one,  upon  which  I  claim  the 
release  of  the  Ship  Frederick  as  well  as  of  the  other  American 
Ships,  since  detained  and  sent  into  Port  by  his  Majesty's  naval 
forces  off  the  Port  of  Havre. 


506  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

The  letter,  a  copy  of  which  I  take  the  liberty  of  sending  to 
your  Lordship,  from  the  Masters  of  the  two  other  American 
Vessels  recently  detained  off  Havre,  not  only  shews  the  unfair 
practices  of  some  of  his  Majesty's  officers,  towards  the  American 
Commerce,  but  confirms  what  I  had  early  foreseen  and  endeav- 
ored to  remedy,  that  the  Blockade  of  Havre  is  not  known  in 
America.  Admitting  that  the  Blockade  was  once  notified,  a  Fact 
with  which  1  am  unacquainted*  yet  the  American  Trade  with 
France  has  been  entirely  prohibited  for  several  years  past,  during 
which  the  two  countries  have  been  in  a  state  of  hostility  ;  and 
upon  the  re-establishment  of  Peace,  and  the  repeal  of  the  pro- 
hibitory Laws,  no  one  has  thought  of  enquiring  concerning  the 
Blockades  which  might  have  been  formerly  instituted,  but  the 
commercial  intercourse  has  been  resumed,  as  it  was  natural  it 
should  be,  upon  the  known  and  common  Principles  of  Neutrality, 
which  require  that  Neutral  Ships  shall  be  warned  and  turned 
away  ;  and  not  detained  upon  the  charge  of  attempting  to  break 
a  Blockade,  of  which  they  were  ignorant. 

To  enforce  the  Penalty  of  Confiscation  in  respect  to  Vessels 
thus  circumstanced,  would  be  to  confound  cases  manifestly  dis- 
similar, as  well  as  to  destroy  the  just  distinction  between  the 
innocent  Merchants  of  a  friendly  Nation  and  the  fraudulent 
Traders  engaged  in  the  Service  of  the  Enemy.  If  to  this  repre- 
sentation be  joined  the  recollection  of  my  early  application  f  to 
your  Lordship  for  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  which  of  the  Ports 
of  France  were  in  a  State  of  Blockade  by  his  Majesty's  naval 
forces  at  the  period  of  the  reconciliation  between  America  and 
France,  in  order  that  I  might  send  seasonable  notice  thereof  to 
America,  and  requesting  in  the  meantime  that  American  Ships, 
met  by  his  Majesty's  cruizers  in  their  passage  to  such  blockaded 
Ports  might  be  warned  and  turned  away  instead  of  being  sent  in 
for  adjudication,  I  persuade  myself  that  it  will  not  be  thought 
necessary  that  I  should  add  any  farther  reflections  for  the  pur- 
pose of  engaging  your  Lordship's  interference  to  procure  the 
immediate  release  of  the  American  Ships  already  detained,  to 
afford  to  me  the  information  I  have  solicited  in  respect  to  the 
Ports  of  France  which  are  in  a  state  of  Blockade,  and  to  renew 

*  Marked  Error  ! — R.  K. 
\  See  letter,  April  13,  1801. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE,  507 

the  instructions  which  have  already  been  given  to  turn  away  in- 
stead of  detaining  American  Vessels,  met  on  their  passage  to 
such  blockaded  Ports. 

With  perfect  Consideration  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Sampson  Hanbury,  Esq. 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  Aug.  29,  1801. 
Sir: 

I  am  at  length  on  the  point  of  concluding  an  arrangement  for 
the  transfer  of  the  Bank  Stock  for  the  use  of  Maryland  :  in  an 
interview  with  the  Lord  Chancellor  yesterday,  he  enquired 
whether  Barclay  and  others  consented  to  the  transfer's  being 
made  to  me  :  I  answered  that  I  understood  they  had  consented, 
but  that  I  wd.  write  to  you  desiring  that  Barclay  and  the  other 
Executors  of  yr.  father,  with  John  Hanbury  and  Jno.  Lloyd  the 
surviving  partners  would  signify  their  consent  to  me,  in  order 
that  I  might  communicate  the  same  to  him  ;  I  therefore  desire 
you  to  represent  to  these  gentlemen  the  necessity  of  their  con- 
forming without  delay  to  this  arrangement  in  order  that  this 
Business,  so  long  and  inconveniently  protracted,  may  be  brought 
to  a  close  ;  stating  to  them  at  the  same  time  my  Engagement, 
which  I  hereby  confirm,  to  transfer  to  them  the  several  sums  to 
which  they  shall  be  entitled  in  virtue  of,  and  according  to  the 
agreement  made  with  Mr.  Chace  immediately  after  the  stock 
shall  be  transferred  to  me. 

I  shall  be  at  my  house  in  town  on  Wedy.  next  Sept.  2d. 

With  due  respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Sept.  1.  1 801. 
My  dear  Friend  : 

I  am  just  now  favored  with  your  letter  of  the  14th  June,  &  am 
glad  you  have  mentioned  the  paragraph  in  the  Centl.  of  April  20 
because  you  might  otherwise  have  remained  uncertain  whether  I 
had  not  at  an  unlucky  moment  supplied  it.     I  have  not  yet  pro- 


508  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

cured  the  paper  since  your  letter  was  received  but  I  shall  make  a 
point  of  it  as  soon  as  I  go  to  Town.  In  the  meantime  be  assured 
that  I  have  habitually  guarded  myself  against  every  thing  of  the 
sort  that  might  by  possibility be  unpleasant  to  you  or  inconvenient 
to  the  public.  I  have  written  nothing  for  the  Centinel  that  I  can 
now  recollect  since  the  Palladium  was  established  :  what  I  have 
published  has  been  in  the  Palladium  &  by  knowing  me  as  you  do 
I  think  you  must  have  commonly  known  my  writings.  In  the 
course  of  our  correspondence  I  have  often  been  enabled  by  your 
communications  to  supply  facts  opinions  &  reasonings  to  the 
Newspapers  but  I  have  cautiously  avoided  all  possible  compromit- 
ment.     .     .     . 

I  rejoice  extremely  in  the  issue  of  the  affairs  in  the  North  & 
the  prospect  of  those  in  the  South.  I  have  no  Country  but  the 
one  in  which  I  live  &  my  Children  will  be  among  its  Inheritors. 
I  wish  it  to  be  left  free  from  all  foreign  influence  but  I  am  per- 
suaded if  the  French  are  left  in  their  present  State  of  predomi- 
nance in  Europe  they  will  thro'  the  medium  of  a  party  here 
govern  the  United  States.  For  the  sake  of  so  much  Liberty 
Justice  &  Virtue  as  England  contains  the  whole  civilized  world 
shou'd  pray  for  their  success  against  the  French  &  it  has  ever 
been  my  opinion  that  if  they  are  true  to  themselves  &  persevere 
they  will  succeed  at  last  in  reducing  the  power  of  France  to  a 
point  that  will  leave  Europe  &  England  particularly  safe  &  inde- 
pendent. The  British  Islands  from  the  circumstance  of  their 
being  Islands  have  nothing  to  fear  while  they  maintain  the  Em- 
pire of  the  Sea  ;  they  can  neither  be  conquer'd  nor  impoverished 
in  this  Commercial  Age.  The  present  superiority  of  their  Navy 
over  that  of  others  is  greater  than  that  of  the  French  Armies — 
the  Russians  beat  the  French  by  land  in  Italy  &  the  English  are 
beating  them  in  Egypt :  a  single  Campaign  will  make  Soldiers  as 
good  as  those  of  France  if  commanded  by  men  of  Genius.  But 
who  can  beat  the  British  Navy  with  equal  numbers  ?  What  Na- 
tion can  in  Ten  years  create  such  a  Navy  in  numbers  and  Skill  ? 
I  repeat  then  their  Fleets  must  be  active  till  France  declines  & 
she  will  probably  decline  from  internal  disorder  or  external  force 
before  England  will  greatly  suffer. 

Yours  faithfully  &  affy 

GC 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  509 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  33. 

London,  Sept.  4,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Notwithstanding  the  assurances  given  me  by  Lord  St.  Vincent 
that  our  vessels  met  on  their  passage  to  the  blockaded  Ports  of 
France,  should  be  warned  and  turned  away,  instead  of  being 
detained  for  adjudication,  several  of  them,  laden  with  valuable 
cargoes,  have  within  a  fortnight  been  taken  by  the  English  Squad- 
ron, charged  with  the  Blockade  of  Havre  de  Grace.  A  letter 
which  I  wrote  to  Lord  Hawkesbury  on  this  subject  immediately 
after  the  reestablishment  of  our  commercial  intercourse  with 
France,  has  not  yet  been  acknowledged.  I  have  called  upon  his 
Lordship  for  an  answer,  and  at  the  same  time  claimed  the  imme- 
diate discharge  of  the  detained  vessels  on  the  principle  that 
having  been  in  hostility  with  France,  since  the  notice  of  the 
Blockade  of  Havre,  which  was  given  in  1798,  it  was  necessary 
that  the  notice  should  have  been  renewed  upon  the  reestablish- 
ment of  amity  between  the  United  States  and  France.  As  Lord 
St.  Vincent  actually  issued  the  Order,  which  he  promised  me  he 
would  do,  admitting  thereby  the  principle  I  have  asserted,  and  as 
some  of  our  vessels  have  been  warned  instead  of  being  detained, 
I  am  in  hopes  that  those  which  have  been  sent  into  Port  will  be 
released  by  an  Order  of  the  Cabinet.  I  cannot,  however,  help 
expressing  my  surprize,  that  our  Merchants,  after  so  much  ex- 
perience as  they  have  had  and  the  publication  of  the  principles 
(whether  right  or  wrong  is  another  question)  asserted  and  acted 
upon  by  the  Belligerents,  should  continue  to  expose  to  the  risque 
of  interruption  such  valuable  Ships  and  Cargoes  by  destinations, 
the  regularity  of  which,  if  considered  by  them,  would  appear  to 
be  at  least  matter  of  doubt. 

The  last  French  papers  contain  a  circular  Letter  from  Mr. 
Eaton,  our  Consul  at  Tunis,  dated  July  25th,  announcing  the 
Blockade  of  Tripoli  by  our  naval  forces,  and  notifying  to  friendly 
Powers  that  it  would  be  enforced  by  the  usual  sanctions  of  the 
Law  of  Nations. 

Denmark,  which  has  been  desirous  of  entering  into  a  separate 
negotiation    with    England,    has    at    last,    as    I    have    reason    to 


510  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

believe,  decided  to  accede  to  the  Convention  concluded  at  Peters- 
burgh. 

Prussia  still  persists,  against  the  reiterated  and  fruitless  de- 
mands of  this  country,  to  keep  possession  of  Hanover,  and 
Russia,  which,  if  I  be  not  misinformed,  it  was  hoped  and  expected 
would  interfere  in  a  peremptory  manner  to  effect  the  restoration 
of  Hanover,  wants  rest  to  recruit  her  Army  and  Finances,  and 
will  not  therefore  be  inclined  to  take  any  measure  which  may  lead 
to  a  premature  departure  from  this  Policy. 

The  situation  of  Portugal,  in  respect  to  France,  remains  unex- 
plicable  ;  the  occupation  of  Madeira  by  English  Forces  looks  as 
if  that  Island  has  been  or  was  about  to  be,  ceded  to  France.  It 
is  understood  that  Portugal  has  purchased  Peace,  but  the  terms 
are  not  known  ;  tho'  no  one  doubts  the  total  exclusion  of  the 
English  during  the  war. 

How  long  that  is  likely  still  to  continue  is  a  question  of  the 
highest  uncertainty  ;  those  who  know  all  are  unable  to  answer  it. 
The  negotiations  for  Peace  and  preparations  to  make,  and  to 
defeat,  invasion  are  carried  on  with  much  activity  and  eclat ;  if 
Egypt  be  lost,  and  the  negotiation  fail,  nothing  will  remain  but 
the  project  of  invasion,  which  will  become  more  practicable,  as 
well  as  more  likely  to  be  undertaken  during  the  short  days  of 
winter,  than  at  this  season  of  the  year ;  if  attempted,  it  will  be 
upon  so  large  a  scale,  that  whether  successful  or  otherwise,  it  will 
be  followed  by  most  important  consequences. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem 

Rufus  King. 


W.  WlLBERFORCE    TO    R.   KlNG. 

(Endorsed  "  Private") 

Sept.,  1801. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  have  been  for  some  days  and  I  still  continue  extremely 
desirous  of  seeing  you  for  a  few  moments.  You  have  met  my 
advances  with  such  friendship  &  cordiality  that  I  naturally  accost 
you  &  open  myself  to  you  with  the  frankness  of  a  friend.  If  I 
take  an  unwarrantable  Liberty  you  have  drawn  it  on  yourself.     I 


l8oi]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  511 


know  at  least  that  I  am  safe  in  your  hands,  &  that  my  openness 
can  do  no  harm,  if  it  be  productive  of  no  good.  I  scribble  whilst 
much  pressd.  for  time,  and  must  therefore  be  as  short  &  as  expe- 
ditious as  possible. 

I  have  been  reflecting  with  much  Solicitude  on  the  grand 
project  I  suggested  to  you  of  effecting  a  general  abolition  of  the 
Slave  Trade  by  a  convention  to  be  made  in  the  negotiations  for 
Peace.  I  trust  I  shall  be  able  to  render  our  Government  favour- 
able, &  France  has  so  little  apparent  interest  (real  interest  she 
could  in  no  case  have,  as  I  think  Mr.  Pitt,  to  say  nothing  of  my 
own  arguments,  has  abundantly  made  out)  in  carrying  on  the 
Slave  Trade,  that  I  am  sanguine  in  my  hopes  as  to  France  also. 
But  we  may  meet  with  serious  objection  on  the  part  of  Spain  & 
Portugal  &  Holland  ;  and  the  two  former  can  set  up  a  better  plea 
of  necessity  than  any  other  powers  on  the  ground  of  their  mines 
&  the  mortality  which  they  may  allege  attends  the  working  of 
them.  Yet  if  France  be  warm  in  the  cause,  the  reluctance  of 
Spain  &  Portugal  will  be  overcome.  Now,  I  know  no  way  so 
likely  to  produce  this  last  effect  as  to  lay  before  Bonaparte  the 
short  abstract  of  the  Evidence  adduced  before  the  Ho.  of  Corns, 
(especly.  that  affecting  the  Slave  Trade  in  Africa,  a  subject  little 
understood  or  consider'd)  &  still  more  the  printed  account  of  2 
debates  which  took  place  on  my  motions,  wherein  are  speeches  of 
Mr.  Pitt  &  Mr.  Fox,  which  are  in  different  ways  extremely  im- 
pressive, tho'  but  faint  images  of  that  strong  &  powerful  elo- 
quence which  at  the  time  bore  down  all  opposition.  Bonaparte 
would  be  ambitious  of  effecting  what  Pitt  &  Fox  had  in  vain 
attempted.  But  how  is  the  desired  object  to  be  attained  ?  Here 
I  want  your  kind  advice,  &  may  I  farther  ask  for  your  friendly 
cooperation.  Any  plan  you  should  point  out  I  would  pursue. 
But  it  occurred  to  me,  whether  measures  might  not  be  taken  to 
learn  Mr.  Otto's  *  way  of  thinking  &  feeling  on  the  Slave  Trade  ; 
and  if  he  be  favourably  disposed  (if  only  vacant  on  the  Subject 
the  same  publications  might  be  laid  before  him)  might  not  an 
Interview  be  contrived  between  him  &  myself,  wherein  he  might 
be  desired  to  transmit  the  above  mentioned  publications  to  Bona- 
parte— or,  without  my  meeting  him,  might  he  not  be  prevailed  on 
to  execute  this  Commission.     A  foreign  minister,  tho*  a  French- 

*  The  French  Ambassador. 


512  RUFUS  KING.  fi8oi 

man,  may  I  suppose  be  deemed  capable  of  keeping  a  secret,  and 
therefore  I  might  rely  on  his  not  making  public  what  should 
be  going  forward,  for  its  prematurely  becoming  known  to  our 
opponents,  might  &  but  too  probably  would  defeat  the  whole 
Design.  The  chief  use  of  my  seeing  him  wou'd  be  the  givg. 
him  more  particular  informatn.  on  any  points  on  which  he  might 
wish  for  it. 

Now  after  all  this — if  on  consideration  you  think  it  would  be 
improper  to  engage  in  this  Transaction,  I  beg  you  only  to  forget 
that  I  have  named  it  to  you.  I  am  persuaded  that  I  hardly  need 
assure  you,  which  however  for  your  more  entire  satisfaction  I 
solemnly  do,  that  I  will  keep  my  havg.  had  any  Intercourse  with 
you  on  the  matter  just  as  secret  as  you  wish  or  shall  require  ;  and 
I  am  sure  you  will  permit  me  to  impose  on  you  the  same  obliga- 
tion of  strict  secresy.  One  word  more  and  I  have  done.  I  am 
aware  that  tho'  I  think  the  Slave  Trade  not  only  unjust  and  cruel 
but  highly  impolitic,  yet  that  others  have  formed  a  different  esti- 
mate of  its  Value — therefore  for  reasons  that  I  need  not  assign  to 
you  because  they  are  so  obvious  as  not  to  need  specification 
I  would  not  engage  in  any  endeavour  direct  or  indirect  to  per- 
suade Mr.  Otto  to  the  desired  purpose  ;  and  indeed  as  the  King's 
Ministers  are  the  only  legitimate  agents  in  transacting  National 
affairs  with  foreign  Countries,  I  could  wish  so  to  manage  the 
whole  Business,  that  it  might  wear  the  air  of  a  mere  literary  Com- 
munication, like  that  between  Bonapt.  &  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  and 
if  possible  I  had  rather  not  be  seen  and  known  in  the  whole 
Transaction  except  by  you  alone.  But  at  least  I  shall  be  so 
guarded  as  not  to  do  anything  which  can  be  deemed  contrary  to 
the  Laws  &  Constitution  of  my  Country  ;  tho'  I  honestly  own  to 
you  that  I  make  a  distinction  (and  that  indeed  is  the  ground  of 
my  conduct  on  this  occasion)  between  cases  wherein  my  country 
may  justly  require  my  Obedience,  &  a  case  which  comprehend- 
ing Robbery  &  murder,  can  be  legitimated  by  no  Earthly  power. 
I  should  have  spared  you  this  long  letter  but  for  my  being  so 
much  engaged  that  I  fear  it  would  be  extremely  difficult  for  me, 
without  the  greatest  inconvenience,  to  get  up  to  Cumbd.  Place  ; 
and  I  conceive  for  reasons  which  will  occur  to  you  if  any  thg.  be 
done  in  this  matter,  the  sooner  the  better.  In  order  to  enable 
you  to  write  to  me  with  the  greater  openness,  I  add  that  I  will 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  513 


destroy  any  letter  with  which  you  may  favour  me  as  soon  as  I  have 
received  it.* 

Believe  me  to  be  with  Cordial  Regard  &  Esteem,  my  dear  Sir 
yours  very  sincly. 

W.    WlLBERFORCE. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Sept.  10.  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

John  Williams  who  states  himself  to  be  an  American  Citizen 
and  who  against  his  consent  was  forced  into  his  Majesty's  naval 
service,  has  been  lately  arrested,  and  is  about  to  be  tried  at  Ports- 
mouth as  a  principal  in  the  Mutiny,  which  six  months  past  took 
place  on  board  his  Majesty's  ship  Danae. 

If  Williams  be  an  American  Citizen,  and  did  not  voluntarily 
enter  into  his  Majesty's  service,  for  the  reasons  stated  in  my  notes 
to  your  Lordship's  Predecessor  of  the  nth  and  13th  of  July  1797, 
in  the  cases  of  William  Fish  and  of  the  two  Hazelburghs,  he  is 
not  justly  liable  to  punishment  for  the  offence  with  which  he  is 
charged  ;  and  it  is,  therefore,  my  duty  to  demand  your  Lordship's 
interference  in  order  that  these  facts  may  be  ascertained,  and  if 
found  as  represented,  that  the  said  John  Williams  be  forthwith 
discharged. 

With  perfect  consideration  &  respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Hawkesbury. 

{Private.} 

Mill  Hill,  Middlesex,  Septemr.  10,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

Unless  our  Business  be  expeditiously  finished,  another  year 

will  elapse  before  it  can  be  finally  closed.     Congress  alone  should 

make  provision  for  the  stipulated  Payments  ;  this  body  meets  but 

once  a  year  and  will  soon  assemble,  and  the  season  is  at  hand 

*  It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  the  answers  of  Mr.  King  to  the  letters  of 
Mr.  Wilberforce  on  the  subject  of  the  abolition  of  slavery  and  the  slave  trade, 
in  which  throughout  his  life  he  was  so  deeply  interested,  cannot  be  obtained. 

VOL.   HI — 33 


514  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

when  passages  to  America  are  rare,  long  and  precarious.  I  there- 
fore take  the  liberty  of  pressing  upon  your  Lordship  the  necessity 
of  this  business  being  completed  without  further  delay,  in  order 
that  I  may  be  able  to  forward  it  to  America,  in  time  to  be  ratified 
during  the  approaching  session  of  Congress.  I  will  do  myself 
the  honour  to  wait  upon  your  Lordship  on  Saturday,  or  any  other 
day  which  may  be  convenient  to  you  for  the  purpose  of  explaining 
to  you  the  very  peculiar  and  disagreeable  condition  of  our  Ships, 
which  have  been  detained  on  their  voyages  to  Havre-de-Grace, 
for  which  Port,  I  have  reason  to  believe  several  other  vessels  are 
now  on  their  passage  from  America.  I  flatter  myself  that  being 
fully  understood  our  difficulties  on  this  head  will  immediately 
cease. 

With  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

R.  King  to  Lord  Eldon. 

Mill  Hill,  Sep.  10,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

As  I  am  solicitous  that  the  business  in  which  your  Lordship 

has  obligingly  taken  a  part  should  be  concluded  in  season  to  be 

communicated  to  Congress  at  their  approaching  session.     I  flatter 

myself  that  you  will  pardon  my  recalling  it  to  your  recollection. 

The  subject  is  one  that  if  once  looked  at,  can  be  soon  adjusted  ; 

in  regard  to  the  terms  to  be  made  use  of,  I  can  foresee  no  room 

to  apprehend  any  disagreement. 

With  great  truth  &  Respect 

Rufus  King. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  14th  Sep.,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.     .     .     The  pamphlet  Mr.  Caritat  will  deliver  you  respecting 

Jefferson's  answer  to  the  New  Haven  Remonstrance  was  written 

by  a  brother  lawyer  of  mine  William  Coleman,  who  was  the  clerk 

of  our  Court  for  this  City — an  office  that  brought  him  in  at  least 

2500.  a  year.     He  came  here  under  the  patronage  of  Mr.  Sedg- 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  515 

wick,  is  a  native  of  Massachusetts.  We  have  set  him  up,  in  con- 
sequence of  his  removal  from  his  office  by  the  late  proceedings 
of  the  Council,  as  a  printer.  His  first  paper  will  make  its  appear- 
ance in  October  next,  and  I  have  little  doubt  from  the  specimen 
given  by  the  Pamphlet,  it  will  be  ably  conducted.  We  wish  him 
to  form  a  correspondence  for  the  mutual  interchange  of  news- 
papers merely  with  one  of  the  best  informed  and  most  respectable 
printers  in  London.  .  .  .  We  wish  him  to  obtain  early  and 
authentic  information  from  London  and  from  the  most  respect- 
able source.  All  our  friends  have  Mr.  Coleman's  paper  much  at 
heart.  We  have  not  a  paper  in  the  City  on  the  federal  side  that 
is  worth  reading.     .     .     . 

God  bless  you 

R.  T. 

G.  Cabot  to  R.  King. 

Sept.  21,  1801. 

My  dear  Sir  : 

I  called  on  the  Printer  of  the  Centinel  today  to  inquire  for  the 
author  of  a  paragraph  you  had  seen  of  the  2 2d  April.  It  was 
furnished  by  Mr.  J.  Hale  who  doubtless  thought  it  correct  &  did 
not  probably  advert  to  its  possible  effect  on  you.  Let  me  again 
repeat  that  I  have  been  scrupulously  careful  to  avoid  at  all  times 
whatever  might  incommode  you  in  this  way  ;  indeed  you  may 
recollect  that  you  have  not  of  ten  communicated  to  me  any  of  your 
official  business,  tho'  you  have  always  been  unreserved  on  every- 
thing else  :  all  this  has  been  as  I  wished  it  to  be. 

I  have  just  reed,  your  letter  of  the  28th  July  which  gratifies  me 
very  much.  I  hope  you  will  remain  where  you  are  not  only  till 
the  Revolutionary  Storm  is  entirely  over,  but  until  the  dangerous 
Calm  which  immediately  succeeds  shall  yield  to  steady  settled 
weather. 

I  am  much  flattered  by  what  you  say  concerning  my  ideas  on 
the  interest  of  Neutrals  &  I  am  surprised,  as  I  dare  say  you  must 
be  to  find  the  view  I  have  given  is  everywhere  thought  to  be  new. 
It  is  a  fact  that  when  I  first  advanced  the  doctrine  that  the  in- 
terest of  Neutrals  was  opposed  to  the  safety  of  Belligerent  prop- 
erty, I  was  listened  to  with  surprise  by  almost  every  one,  but  so 
obvious  is  this  truth  that  all  now  wonder  that  it  was  not  seen  be- 


5 16  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

fore  by  whoever  sought  it.  ...  I  suppose  by  this  time  Mr. 
Erving  is  arrived  who  is  said  to  have  recommended  himself  as  a 
suitable  man  to  watch  Mr.  King — his  appointment  to  the  place 
so  honorably  filled  by  Mr.  Williams  has  exceedingly  irritated  our 
Merchants. 

Fare  you  well,  yours  affy. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  35. 

London,  Sept.  24,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  letters  which  I  have  received  from  you  are  dated  May  21st, 
June  15th  &  30th  and  July  21st,  27th  and  28th  ;  the  three  last 
were  delivered  to  me  by  Mr.  Erving,  to  whom  I  will  afford  all  the 
assistance  in  my  power  in  the  discharge  of  his  Several  Duties. 

My  information  that  Denmark  had  acceded  to  the  Convention 
has  proved  incorrect ;  Difficulties  being  still  made  by  this  Power, 
which  it  is  not  doubted  will  in  the  end  accede  in  order  to  regain 
her  possessions  in  the  East  and  West  Indies.  Russia  having  re- 
quired that  the  accession  should  be  made  at  Petersburgh,  all 
information  comes  from  that  distant  city  and  is  often  inaccurate. 

The  compensations  to  be  made  pursuant  to  the  Treaty  of  Lune- 
ville  have  not  yet  been  settled  by  the  City  of  Ratisbon,  and  some 
late  occurrences  in  Germany  have  led  a  few  sanguine  Individuals 
to  predict  a  new  war  upon  the  Continent.  This,  however  is  no 
longer  probable,  the  great  Powers  are  in  the  main  agreed  and  will 
finally  be  completely  so  by  the  division  of  the  Ecclesiastical  and 
other  small  States  with  which  Germany  abounds. 

Indemnities  have  been  offered  to  the  Prince  of  Orange  ;  he  has 
asked  the  advice  of  this  Cabinet,  whether  he  ought  to  accept  them 
and  renounce  the  Stadtholdership  ;  his  answer  has  been  that  the 
Cabinet  declines  giving  any  opinion  upon  the  Subject. 

Prussia  instead  of  evacuating  Hanover  has  modestly  proposed 
to  this  Government  to  pay  her  a  subsidy  for  the  maintenance  of 
the  troops  she  has  sent  into  the  Electorate,  alleging  that  France 
will  occupy  it,  if  she  withdraws  her  forces.  The  answer  has  been 
that  if  Prussia  evacuate,  and  France  attempt  to  take  possession 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  517 

of  Hanover,  England  may  be  willing  to  pay  for  the  service  of  the 
Prussian  troops  employed  in  defending  it. 

The  Concordatum  by  which  France  and  the  Pope  have  settled 
the  Gallican  Church,  tho'  not  yet  published,  is  represented  to  be 
of  importance  to  the  repose  of  France,  and  the  Stability  of  the 
Power  of  the  chief  consul.  The  Bishops  who  have  been  required 
by  the  holy  Father  to  resign  their  sees,  will  be  divided  ;  the  younger 
will  conform  ;  their  seniors  will  disobey  ;  their  refusal  will,  how- 
ever, be  of  small  consequence,  as  the  new  Bishops  and  Arch- 
bishops to  be  named  by  the  chief  Consul  and  confirmed  by  the 
Pope,  will  supply  their  places,  and  they  themselves  from  age  and 
infirmity  must  in  a  few  years  retire  from  the  stage. 

As  soon  as  I  received  from  Mr.  Smith  the  account  of  the  very 
irregular  conduct  of  the  English  Frigate  Diana,  Capt.  Stephen- 
son, towards  three  American  Vessels  in  the  Port  of  Lisbon,  I 
made  a  representation  of  it  to  Lord  St.  Vincent,  who  replied  that 
he  would  order  an  immediate  inquiry  into  the  complaint  and  hold 
Capt.  Stephenson  answerable  for  the  misconduct  of  his  crew,  in 
case  it  should  turn  out  that  the  violence  was  committed  with  his 
knowledge.  Since  the  receipt  of  your  Letter  of  July  26th,  Lord 
St.  Vincent  has  informed  me  that  orders  were  immediately  dis- 
patched, to  institute  the  Enquiry  ;  but  that  the  Frigate  having 
sailed  to  Egypt,  no  report  had  yet  been  made. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


R.  King  to  Lord  Eldon. 

{Private.') 

Gt.  Cumberland  Place,  Sept.  24,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

I  return  enclosed  to  your  Lordship  the  project  we  have  been 
discussing  and  consent  to  the  substitute  for  the  III  Article, 
which  you  delivered  to  me  this  morning. 

The  addition  of  the  clause  abolishing  the  6th  Article  of  the 
Treaty  of  1794,  and  which  may  be  introduced  at  the  top  of  the 
second  Page  with  the  transposition  of  a  word  or  two  in  the  2nd 
Article,  which  I  have  made,  are  the  only  alterations  desired. 


5 18  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

I  pray  your  Lordship  to  send  the  project  as  now  settled  to 
Lord  Hawkesbury  in  order  that  it  may  be  engrossed  so  as  to  be 
executed  immediately.  As  I  have  in  relation  to  this  business 
manifested  a  disposition  to  fall  in  with  what  has  been  deemed 
requisite  to  meet  complaints  which  may  arise  on  one  side,  I  must 
beg  of  your  Lordship  in  turn  to  enable  me  by  an  arrangement  re- 
specting the  Maryland  Bank  Stock  to  bear  up  against  the  dissatis- 
faction which  may  occur  on  the  other. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


"Sep.,  1801.* 

"  In  the  beginning  of  this  month  Mr.  John  Dawson  arrived  in 
England  from  France  on  his  return  to  America.  Mr.  Dawson 
was  the  bearer  of  the  French  Convention  to  France  and  of  in- 
structions to  Murray  to  complete  the  ratification.  Mr.  Dawson 
came  to  me  at  Mill  Hill,  and  in  our  first  conversation  told  me 
that  he  was  instructed  by  the  President  Mr.  Jefferson  to  inform 
me  (which  he  remarked  he  had  done  in  a  letter  wh.  he  wrote  & 
wh.  I  received  in  May  last,  dated  in  the  Chops  of  the  Channel) 
that  I  should  remain  here  if  agreeable  to  myself.  Speaking  of 
Col.  Burr  he  said  the  Federalists  wd.  have  been  wholly  disap- 
pointed had  Burr  been  chosen  President,  for  that  he  himself 
heard  Burr  say  a  day  or  two  after  Mr.  Jefferson's  choice,  or  entry 
upon  office  (wh.  I  am  uncertain)  that  he  would  deserve  to  be 
damned  if  he  suffered  a  single  officer  to  remain  in  place  twenty- 
four  hours.  !  !  ! " 


"  Sep.  25.* 

"  In  conversation  with  Mr.  Hammond,  U.  S.  of  State,  speaking 
of  Rumford  and  Ch.  Huslang,  the  Charge  d'Affaires  of  Bavaria, 
I  said  I  knew  little  of  the  latter,  but  said  Hammond  R.  knows 
him  thoroughly.  I  asked  him  if  he  seriously  believed  the  imputa- 
tions wh.  had  been  made  respecting  R.  ;  he  said  most  certainly, 
and  that  even  was  not  all,  for  that  he  was  a  Traitor.     On  my  ex- 

*  From  Memorandum  Book. 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  519 

pressing  surprise,  he  said  Lord  Grenville  told  me  that  Lord 
Mulgrave  had  told  him,  if  Lord  Sandwich  had  lived,  that  R. 
could  not  have  lived  in  England  ;  that  R.  was  connected  with  La 
Motte  the  French  Spy  who  was  executed  in  178-  At  that  time 
R.  was  under  Secretary  to  Lord  Geo.  Germaine,  *  who  learning 
that  Lord  Sandwich  was  about  to  bring  R.  to  trial,  sent  him  a 
message  at  the  time  that  the  motion  was  before  Parliament  to 
address  the  King  to  remove  from  his  confidence,  &c,  Lord  Sand- 
wich, that  if  he  persisted  in  his  intention  about  R.,  he  Ld.  Geo. 
with  all  his  friends  would  vote  for  the  motion,  wh.  would  have 
carried  it.  Hammond  added  that  this  protection  proceeded  from 
the  scandalous  intimacy  between  Ld.  George  and  R. 

"  N.B.  By  referring  to  the  trial  of  La  Motte  in  the  Annual 
Register,  the  chief  witness  against  him,  alludes  to  a  friend  in  a 
certain  office  ! 

"  No  doubt  this  anecdote  had  its  influence  in  preventing  R.'s 
reception  as  Minister  from  Bavaria.  The  reason  assigned  agt.  it 
was  that  R.  had  been  &  was  a  Br.  subject  &  that  it  was  a  rule  to 
refuse  the  admission  of  subjects  as  Ambassadors." 

*  Minister  for  the  Colonies  during  the  Revolutionary  war. 


CHAPTER  XXXV. 

King  to  Secretary  of  State — Impatient  at  Delays  in  Negotiation — To  J.  Madi- 
son— Delays — Peace  with  France  and  Revision  of  Treaty  with  England 
about  Seamen  and  Contraband  seem  to  require  a  Plan  to  be  adopted — A 
Conference  at  Home  if  Mr.  King  is  to  conduct  the  Negotiation  advisable — 
To  Secretary  of  State — Preliminaries  of  Peace  with  France — France  may 
turn  Attention  to  Louisiana — J.  Q.  Adams  to  King — Return  to  America — 
How  much  the  Country  improved — Removals  from  Office  a  Subject  of  Cen- 
sure— Mr.  King  not  to  be  removed — Troup  to  King — Removals  from 
Office  in  New  York — Federal  Party  dying  out — Anecdotes  of  Jefferson 
and  Chancellor  Livingston — King  to  Secretary  of  State — Conferences  with 
the  Lord  Chancellor  and  Lord  Hawkesbury  on  6th  Article — King  to  Secre- 
tary of  State — Further  Conferences  on  same  Subject,  on  the  7th  Article, 
and  on  the  Maryland  Bank  Stock — King  to  J.  Madison — The  Course  he 
will  pursue  if  Objections  persisted  in. 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  37. 

Oct.  4,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  expected  during  the  last  fortnight  that  I  should  be  able 
to  close  the  negotiations  respecting  the  6th  Article  of  the  Treaty 
of  1794,  in  season  to  send  the  result  by  Mr.  Dawson  ;  but  as  he 
is  on  the  point  of  embarking,  and  the  business  still  remains  open, 
I  can  only  transmit  the  annexed  Report  of  what  has  passed  since 
the  date  of  my  No.  32.  Be  the  consequence  what  it  may,  I  shall 
decline  entering  into  any  new  engagement  which  may  vary  from, 
or  change  the  stipulations  of  the  Treaty  of  Peace  ;  being  fully 
satisfied  that  a  departure  from  this  decision,  would  lay  the  foun- 
dation of  a  future  controversy. 

After  waiting  a  reasonable  time  I  propose,  in  case  I  do  not 
hear  farther  from  Lord  Hawkesbury,  to  send  him  a  Note  demand- 
ing a  decisive  answer. 

With  perfect  Respect  and  Esteem  &c  &c. 

Rufus  King. 
520 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  52 1 

After  this  follows  the  report,  which  is  a  very  long  one.  In 
the  course  of  it  appears  the  following  letter  from  Lord 
Eldon. 

Lord  Eldon  to  Rufus  King. 

Sept.  26,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  taken  all  the  means  in  my  power  to  avoid  postponing 

the  visit  I  promised  you  from  this  day  till  Monday,  but  I  find 

myself  obliged  so  to  do,  and  shall  call  upon  you  on  Monday 

about  one  o'clock. 

Very  faithfully  &c  &c. 

Eldon. 


Mr.  King  also  writes : 


Oct.  2. 


"  Went  to  Downing  Street  agreeably  to  Lord  Hawkesbury's 
appointment.  His  Lordship  was  prepared  to  receive  my  compli- 
ments upon  the  Preliminaries  of  Peace  with  France,  which  were 
signed  last  night  ;  but  wholly  unprepared  to  say  anything  more 
respecting  my  business  than  that  he  had  seen  the  Chancellor,  and 
that  it  would  be  requisite  for  him  to  bring  the  subject  again  be- 
fore the  Cabinet.  I  asked  when  this  would  be  done,  and  expressed 
pretty  strongly  my  impatience  at  the  delays  which  had  taken 
place  ;  he  replied  that  he  could  not  name  a  day,  but  that  it  should 
be  soon.  It  is  now  evident  that  little  attention  has  been  bestowed 
upon  our  affairs  ;  the  negotiation  with  France  having  excluded 
the  consideration  of  all  other  subjects." 


R.  King  to  James  Madison. 

{Private.') 

London,  Oct.  8,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  nothing  to  add  to  my  official  letter  respecting  the 
negotiation  relative  to  the  6th  Article.  The  additional  articles 
concerning  Contraband  and  the  Impressment  of  Seamen  were 


522  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

referred  to  Lord  St.  Vincent,  who  informed  me  that  he  imme- 
diately reported  upon  them  ;  he  had  before  told  me  that  he  was 
in  favour  of  their  adoption  ;  the  Chancellor  has  assured  me  that 
he  would  attend  to  the  settlement  of  an  article  respecting  the 
Maryland  Bank  Stock  ;  but  this  business  will  continue  to  be 
deferred  until  the  discussion  of  the  Convention  is  finished. 

The  conclusion  of  Peace  (the  Preliminaries  whereof  will  not 
be  published  before  they  shall  have  been  ratified)  and  the  limited 
period  within  which  our  Treaty  must  undergo  a  revision,  render 
the  articles  respecting  Seamen  and  Contraband,  less  important 
than  they  would  have  been  had  the  war  continued  ;  yet  as  one 
of  them  is  declaratory  of  the  meaning  of  the  18th  Article  of  the 
Treaty  of  1794,  and  would  therefore  be  a  rule  of  decision  in  the 
Court  of  Appeals,  and  as  it  affects  a  great  Principle,  in  the  estab- 
lishment whereof  we  are  deeply  concerned,  I  shall  do  all  in  my 
power  to  bring  them  to  a  conclusion. 

It  was  my  earnest  hope,  when  I  came  hither,  that  I  should  have 
had  before  this  period,  an  opportunity  to  assist  in  the  revision  of 
our  treaty  with  this  country.  We  have  sufficiently  seen,  and  be- 
come acquainted  with,  its  operation  during  war :  and  the  time  is 
come  when  it  is  to  be  tried  as  a  rule  of  mutual  conduct  in  Peace. 
If  I  be  not  mistaken,  it  will  be  found  to  be  our  interest  on  every 
account,  to  aim  at  its  revision  as  soon  as  possible.  The  Treaty 
with  France  may  also  require  to  be  revised  :  ought  we  not  to  lay 
down  a  common  basis  for  these  Treaties,  and  endeavour  to  form 
them  so  as  to  act  upon  common  and  not  upon  interfering  Prin- 
ciples ?  To  do  so  will  require  concert  in  the  projects,  as  well  as 
in  the  negotiations.  Should  the  President  confide  the  negotia- 
tion here  to  me,  might  there  not  be  considerable  advantage  in 
my  receiving  his  permission  to  pass  a  fortnight  with  you  at  the 
Seat  of  Government,  or  with  Mr.  Livingston  here  or  at  Paris  ? 
If  the  Subject  have  not  been  fully  discussed  with  Mr.  L.  before 
his  embarkation,  the  conferences  in  America  would  be  most  use- 
ful. Upon  the  supposition  that  our  affairs  still  depending  here 
be  satisfactorily  closed,  I  might  embark  in  March  directly  for  the 
Chesapeake,  pass  a  fortnight  in  Washington  and  returning  by 
New  York  be  here  again  in  July. 

With  perfect  Esteem  &  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


1801]  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE.  523 

R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  3S. 

London,  October  9,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

Information  has  been  received  from  Paris  that  the  Preliminaries 
are  fully  approved  and  that  the  ratification  will  without  delay  be 
completed.  The  Terms  published  in  the  News  Papers  are  ad- 
mitted to  be  correct.  France  receives  back  Martinique  and  the 
rest  of  her  foreign  possessions,  and  in  better  condition  than  when 
taken  by  the  English.  The  Dutch  and  Spaniards  likewise  regain 
the  possession  of  their  colonies  with  the  exception  of  Ceylon  and 
Trinidad.  Malta  will  be  restored  to  the  Order  and  Egypt  to  the 
Turk.  It  is  highly  probable  that  Menon  had  capitulated  at  the 
date  of  the  Preliminaries,  the  effect  whereof  will  be  to  exclude 
the  English  and  not  the  French  from  Egypt.  The  Dutch  colonies 
have  been  greatly  enriched  while  in  the  hands  of  the  English, 
who  have  added  more  than  thirty  thousand  slaves  in  the  single 
colony  of  Demerara.  Upon  a  moderate  calculation  it  is  estimated 
that  the  restored  colonies  carry  with  them  Five  Million  Sterling  of 
English  capital  with  which  they  have  flourished  since  their 
capture. 

The  armistice,  counting  from  the  exchange  of  Ratifications, 
will  be  the  same  as  at  the  conclusion  of  the  American  War.  Lord 
Cornwallis  is  to  be  sent  to  Amiens  to  conclude  the  definitive 
Treaty  ;  this  will  be  a  mere  ceremonial,  as  the  Preliminaries  will 
constitute  the  definitive  Treaty.  The  only  point  which  is  under- 
stood to  be  open,  is  the  agreement  upon  a  Third  Power  to  be  the 
Protector  of  Malta.  England  wishes  Russia,  France  will  prefer 
a  weaker  Power,  and  the  disagreement  may  end  by  their  con- 
ferring the  Protectorship  again  on  the  King  of  the  two  Sicilies. 
A  Treaty  of  commerce  is  an  affair  of  future  consideration  and 
may  not  be  concluded  for  several  years. 

Had  France  retained  Egypt  her  commercial  and  colonial  views 
would  have  been  chiefly  confined  to  the  Mediterranean  ;  espe- 
cially as  it  is  understood  that  a  part  of  her  plan  was  to  have 
established  military  colonies  at  Algiers  &  Tunis.  This  enterprize 
having  failed,  Saint  Domingo  and  her  other  American  colonies 
will  engage  her  immediate  attention,  and  perhaps  Louisiana  may 


524  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

be  coveted  as  an  asylum  for  their  Emigrants,  as  England  once 

thought  of  making  it  the  refuge  of  ours.     May  the  same  fortune 

which  disappointed  the  views  of  England  in  like  manner  frustrate 

those  of  France  ! 

With  perfect  Respect  &c. 

Rufus  King. 


John  Quincy  Adams  to  R.  King. 

Quincy,  13  October,  1801. 

Dear  Sir  : 

On  my  arrival  here,  the  21st  of  last  month,  I  received  your 
obliging  favours  of  30.  June,  10  and  26.  July,  for  which  and  for 
your  kind  attention  to  my  little  concerns,  I  can  only  return  you 
thanks,  the  exchequer  of  the  poor.     .     .     . 

We  landed  at  Philadelphia,  the  4th  of  last  month  after  a  tedious, 
though  not  unpleasant  passage  of  58  days  from  Hamburg — My 
wife,  with  her  child  went  on  to  her  father's  family  at  Washington, 
and  I  came  here — The  day  after  to-morrow  I  purpose  setting  out, 
to  go  and  bring  her  home — In  the  course  of  a  month  I  hope  to 
be  here  again,  and  shall  immediately  resume  the  practice  of  the 
law,  and  fix  my  residence  in  Boston. 

The  appearance  of  our  country  has  much  improved  since  I  left 
it  in  1794.  I  find  everywhere  the  marks  of  peace  within  our  walls, 
and  prosperity  within  our  palaces — for  palaces  they  may  truly  be 
called  ;  those  splendid  and  costly  mansions  which  since  my  de- 
parture seem  to  have  shot  up  from  the  earth  by  enchantment. 

The  pleasure  of  these  prospects  is  in  some  measure  damp'd  by 
that  of  the  afflictions  from  which  we  are  not  yet  exempted — Several 
of  our  large  towns — New  York,  Norfolk,  Charleston  S.  C.  and  some 
others  are  bleeding  again  under  the  scourge  of  pestilential  fevers. 
But  as  they  did  not  appear  untill  a  much  later  than  the  usual 
period,  and  as  the  cold  season  is  rapidly  approaching,  we  hope 
for  speedy  relief  from  this  distressing  calamity. 

Upon  the  subject  of  our  politics,  I  know  not  how  far  it  may  be 
proper  to  tell  you  all  I  have  observed  since  my  return,  arid  should 
I  tell  you  all,  it  would  not  give  you  a  clue  to  the  projects  and  views 
of  any  party — the  meeting   of  congress  will  doubtless  discover 


l8io]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  525 

some  of  them,  and  I  shall  write  you  again  upon  the  subject,  with 
the  utmost  confidence. 

The  dismissal  of  some  public  officers  and  the  appointment  (pro- 
visionally) of  some  others  has  given  rise  to  considerable  contro- 
versy— Remonstrances,  replies,  and  pamphlets  pro  and  con  have 
furnished  much  conversation  for  idlers,  and  much  discussion  for 
disputants.  This  has  been  hitherto  the  only  topic  of  material 
censure  upon  the  present  administration,  and  individual  feelings 
have  given  it  a  show  of  importance  much  beyond  that  which  be- 
longs to  it — I  am  happy  to  know,  that  from  the  removals  of  public 
officers  abroad,  it  has  been  constantly  determined  to  except  you, 
and  that  the  President  has  expressed  his  entire  satisfaction  with 
the  manner  in  which  you  have  served  the  public  in  your  present 
mission. 

I  am,  Dear  Sir,  ever  faithfully  your's 

A. 


R.  Troup  to  R.  King. 

New  York,  14th  Oct.,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

.  .  .  Landed  property  is  looking  up  ;  and  it  is  certain  that 
more  monies  have  been  received  from  settlers  within  eighteen 
months  past  than  in  several  preceeding  years.  The  class  of 
settlers,  now  emigrating  to  Sir  Wm.  Pulteney's  lands  consists  of 
respectable  and  wealthy  men — and  principally  from  Maryland  & 
Virginia. 

.  .  .  All  the  federalists  in  this  State  who  take  a  part  in 
politics  are  enraged  with  the  violent  proceedings  of  our  Council 
of  Appointment. 

Mr.  T.  enumerates  many  of  the  changes,  discussing  the 
character  of  the  new  appointees,  and  then  goes  on  : 

— The  displacing  system  here  is  bottomed  on  Jefferson's  example  ; 
and  I  have  no  doubt  it  will  be  pushed  still  further,  considering  the 
violence  of  DeWitt  Clinton  and  Spencer.  The  system,  as  thus  far 
practised  by  Jefferson  and  Clinton's  council,  occasions  great  heart 
burnings  with  some  ;  but  I  doubt  whether  they  are  so  general  as 


526  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

materially  to  injure  the  democratic  interest.  The  great  body  of 
the  people  appear  not  to  care  whether  A  or  B,  be  in  this  or  that 
office.  I  have  always  thought  our  governments  from  the  texture 
of  them  were  destined  to  be  in  the  hands  of  demagogues  ;  and  I 
believe  they  will  remain  there,  until  a  convention,  or  something 
like  one,  shall  show  the  people  that  they  are  cheated.  Public 
spirit  seems  to  have  spent  its  force  among  the  federalists.  They 
are  wearied  out  with  the  warfare  in  which  we  have  been  engaged 
ever  since  our  general  constitution  has  been  framed  ;  and  they 
seem  to  pant  so  much  for  repose  that  they  are  ready  to  submit  to 
any  state  of  things  short  of  Parisian  Massacres.  .  .  .  The 
federal  cause  exhibits  strong  symptoms  of  a  speedy  dissolution. 
At  an  election  of  Delegates  (held  in  August)  to  our  State  conven- 
tion appointed  to  heel  tap  our  State  Constitution,  the  federalists 
made  no  stir  ;  they  did  not  even  vote.  ...  A  well  experienced 
gentleman  just  from  Philadelphia  says  the  same  torpor  prevails  in 
that  city,  and  indeed  in  the  whole  state.  It  is  also  the  case  with 
Marvland.     .     .     . 

A  gentleman  who  has  spent  a  considerable  part  of  the  summer 
in  Virginia  tells  me  that  some  of  Mr.  Jefferson's  influential  friends 
are  dissatisfied  with  his  violent  proofs  of  party  spirit  and  are  cry- 
ing up  Burr.  Others  complain  that  his  familiarities  with  the 
sovereign  people  lower  the  dignity  of  government.  The  latter  I 
think,  is  a  curious  objection.  As  to  the  former,  I  think  they 
must  be  pleased  with  the  advancement  of  their  own  sect.  Jeffer- 
son certainly  has  his  heart  full  of  public  censure.  All  the  federal 
presses  are  pouring  down  upon  him  vinegar  and  gall.  I  am  in- 
formed that  some  man  to  the  southward  lately  dedicated  a  book 
to  him  with  the  homage  of  his  high  respects,  and  that  Jefferson 
returned  for  answer  he  was  happy  to  find  one  man,  amidst  the 
host  of  calumniators,  that  was  so  virtuous  and  independent  as  to 
say  civil  things  of  him.  I  believe  this  to  be  a  fact  ;  and  if  so,  it 
proves  that  the  saddle  of  power  has  galled  his  back.     .     .     . 

The  Chancellor  is  here  with  his  family  on  the  way  to  the  Jaco- 
binical paradise.  He  will  embark  to-morrow  or  next  day  on  board 
the  Boston  frigate  that  has  come  to  waft  him  across  the  ocean. 
Report  announces,  and  I  believe  truly,  that  the  headquarter  gen- 
tleman wished  him  to  go  in  a  merchant  vessel  :  but  with  true 
democratic  spirit  he  replied  that  he  would  not  go  at  all  if  they 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  527 


did  not  send  him  in  a  government  ship.  When  he  went  on  board 
the  other  day  to  reconnoitre  the  accommodations  the  frigate 
afforded,  it  was  generally  doubted  whether  he  heard  the  honor- 
able voice  of  the  guns.     .     .     . 

God  bless  you 

R.  T. 


R.  King  to  Secretary  of  State. 

No.  40. 

London,  Oct.  20,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

The  ship  in  which  Mr.  Dawson  embarked,  having  been 
forced  by  adverse  winds  to  return  into  Port,  affords  me  an  op- 
portunity of  sending  to  you  the  annexed  continuation  of  the  Re- 
port of  my  conferences  with  the  Chancellor  and  Lord  Hawkesbury. 
It  may  be  several  days  before  I  hear  again  from  his  Lordship,  and 
such  is  the  present  extraordinary  situation  of  the  negotiation,  that  I 
will  not  venture  even  to  conjecture  the  turn  that  it  may  now  be 
likely  to  take.  Should  it  ultimately  fail,  however  much  we  may 
regret  its  inauspicious  influence  upon  the  good  understanding  and 
harmony  we  have  so  assiduously  laboured  to  preserve  with  this 
country,  we  shall  have  the  satisfaction  to  know  that  it  did  not 
fail  from  a  change  of  circumstances,  or  the  want  of  good  faith, 
on  our  part. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

Notes  of  conferences  with  Lord  Hawkesbury  and  others 
concerning  the  convention  relative  to  the  6th  Article  of  the 
Treaty  of  1794. 

i8or,  October  8.  Lord  Hawkesbury  informed  me  that  he  had 
not  yet  an  opportunity  of  bringing  our  Business  before  the  Cabi- 
net, and  desired  me  to  see  the  Lord  Chancellor  again  upon  the 
subject.  Accordingly  I  sent  a  note  to  the  Chancellor  informing 
him  what  had  passed  between  Lord  Hawkesbury  and  me,  and 
proposing  to  meet  him  when  it  should  be  convenient. 

9.  Received  the  following  note  from  the  Chancellor. 


528  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

Lord  Eldon  to  Mr.  King. 

Downing  Street,  gth  of  October,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  been  out  of  town  this  morning,  and  it  will  perhaps 
save  time,  if  you  would  do  me  the  favour  to  send  to  Bed- 
ford Square  the  Convention,  as  you  may  think  finally  it  would 
be  satisfactory  to  you,  after  the  conversation  you  have  had  with 
Lord  Hawkesbury,  and  I  will  give  it  immediate  attention  and 
take  an  early  opportunity  of  seeing  you. 

With  great  Respect  &c. 

Eldon. 

To  this  note  I  immediately  returned  the  following  answer : 

R.  King  to  Lord  Eldon. 

Great  Cumberland  Place,  Oct.  9,  1801. 
My  Lord  : 

The  Draught  of  the  Convention,  sent  to  me  by  Lord  Hawkes- 
bury, I  delivered  to  your  Lordship,  when  last  I  had  the  honour 
of  seeing  you.  I  shall  be  satisfied  with  it,  provided  the  under- 
scored words  in  the  enclosed  copy  of  the  2d  Article  be  changed 
for  those  which  I  have  written  in  the  opposite  margin.  I  beg 
your  Lordship  to  excuse  the  trouble  I  have  given  you  in  this 
business  which  has  been  influenced  by  the  persuasion  that  if 
you  and  I  could  not  agree  upon  the  article,  I  might  despair  of 
seeing  a  satisfactory  conclusion  of  it. 

With  perfect  Respect  &c. 

R.  K. 

UNDERSCORED     WORDS     IN      2D        WORDS   PROPOSED    TO    BE     SUB- 
ARTICLE,     VIZ.  STITUTED,    VIZ. 

"  and  so  as  that  no  creditor  "  and  so  as  that  the  said 
on  either  side  shall  hereafter  creditors  shall  hereafter  meet 
meet  with  any  lawful  impedi-  with  no  lawful  impediment  to 
ment  to  such  recovery  as  the  recovery  of  the  full  value 
aforesaid."  in  Sterling  money  of  their  bona 

fide  debts." 


l8oi]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  529 


October  14.  Received  a  note  from  Lord  Hawkesbury  desiring 
me  to  meet  him  and  the  Chancellor  at  12  o'clock  to-morrow. 

15.  Went  to  Downing  Street  agreeably  to  Lord  Hawkesbury's 
appointment.  The  Lord  Chancellor  began  by  saying  he  had  no 
objection  to  substitute  the  words  I  had  proposed  in  the  close  of 
the  Second  Article,  in  lieu  of  those  which  he  had  inserted,  but 
that  on  considering  the  fourth  Article  which  I  had  proposed,  he 
was  not  sure  that  it  might  not  interfere  with  the  Second  Article, 
nor  that  we  might  not  still  misunderstand  each  other  in  regard  to 
what  was  to  be  the  condition  of  the  Creditors  in  prosecuting  for 
the  recovery  of  their  debts.  His  idea  was  that  all  legal  impedi- 
ments, by  which  he  meant  Laws  and  Acts  of  State,  preventing 
the  recovery  of  bona  fide  debts,  were  to  cease  ;  and  consequently 
that  the  Creditors  would  be  able  to  prosecute  for  their  recovery 
in  like  manner  as  they  might  have  done,  had  such  lawful  impedi- 
ment never  existed ;  for  example,  continued  his  Lordship,  if 
during  the  American  war,  a  Law  were  passed,  disqualifying 
British  subjects,  from  prosecuting  for  recovery  of  debts  in  the 
Courts  of  America,  in  like  manner  as  during  the  present  war,  a 
law  has  been  enacted  to  prevent  the  recovery  of  Debts  due  to 
Persons  resident  in  France,  such  Law  must  henceforth  cease. 
But,  if  on  trial,  the  demand  fail  for  want  of  sufficient  proof,  or 
for  any  other  defect,  that,  in  the  ordinary  course  of  Judicial  Pro- 
ceedings, would  prevent  a  recovery,  such  failure  would  have  no 
relation  to  the  Treaty.  If,  for  instance,  said  Lord  Hawkesbury, 
the  Court  inform  the  Jury  that  there  is  no  lawful  impediment  to 
the  Creditor's  recovery,  but  the  Jury,  notwithstanding,  give  a 
verdict  for  the  Debtor,  this  would  not  affect  the  Treaty,  since  it 
is  not  to  be  contended  that  the  Government  can  engage  how 
Juries  shall  decide  in  cases  submitted  to  their  consideration. 
All  we  expect  is  that  there  shall  be  no  Impediment  in  Law  to 
the  Creditor's  recovery. 

I  replied  that  it  was  not  very  easy  to  define,  what  is  and  what 
is  not,  a  lawful  impediment  ;  to  which  the  Chancellor  assented  ; 
but  that  I  did  not  perceive  that  we  differed  in  our  ideas  upon  the 
subject ;  the  Treaty  of  Peace  engaged  that  lawful  impediments 
should  cease  ;  the  proposed  Convention  would  confirm  this  en- 
gagement ;  and  such  was  my  understanding  of  its  import.  The 
additional  or  fourth  Article  had  been  proposed  by  me  for  this 

VOL.  III. — 34 


530  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

reason.  As  the  second  and  third  articles  purported  to  explain 
what  the  Convention  does  not  mean,  I  had  thought  it  expedient 
to  offer  an  article  declaratory  of  what  it  does  mean  ;  but  if  the 
third  article  were  omitted,  I  should  have  no  objection  to  omit 
the  fourth.  The  Lord  Chancellor  expressed  his  approbation  of 
this  Compromise,  and  said  he  would  revise  the  Draught  in  order 
to  render  it  comformable  to  this  agreement  ;  this,  he  added, 
should  be  done  in  the  course  of  the  evening,  and  Lord  Hawkes- 
bury  desired  me  to  meet  him  to-morrow  for  the  purpose  of  sign- 
ing the  Convention  as  we  had  noiv  settled  it. 

The  Chancellor,  adverting  to  the  Maryland  Bank  Stock,  ob- 
served that  after  looking  more  fully  into  the  question,  he  felt 
great  difficulty  in  recommending  that  it  should  become  the  sub- 
ject of  a  public  Convention  or  Stipulation  between  the  two  coun- 
tries. The  claims  of  sundry  Persons  upon  that  Property, 
remained  still  to  be  decided  in  the  Court  of  Chancery  ;  and  it 
would  be  contrary  to  the  usage  of  this  country  for  the  King  to 
enter  into  any  stipulation,  affecting  or  controlling  the  decisions 
of  his  Courts  ;  that  if  any  should  be  agreed  to,  it  must  be  with 
a  provisional  reserve  in  favour  of  these  claims  ;  that  an  assurance 
from  the  King's  Government  that  his  Majesty's  right,  subject  to 
such  equitable  claims  as  might  be  established,  should  be  transferred 
to  Maryland,  and  an  Instruction  to  the  Attorney  General  to  bring 
these  claims  to  a  decision,  would  answer  all  the  purposes  of  a 
stipulation  to  the  same  effect. 

I  remarked  that  it  was  to  be  hoped  that  there  was  no  intention 
by  the  proposed  reservation  in  favour  of  these  claims,  to  establish 
them  against  our  Title,  and  that  I  could  not  but  regret  that  that 
decision  had  not  been  earlier  communicated. 

I  then  said  that  the  difficulties,  respecting  the  execution  of  the 
6th  article  of  the  Treaty  of  1794,  being  now  terminated  by  the 
Convention  we  had  settled,  I  thought  it  my  duty,  with  a  view  of 
avoiding  misconceptions,  to  state  explicitly  our  expectation  that  the 
Commissioners  under  the  7th  Article,  should  be  permitted  to  meet 
and  proceed  in  the  execution  of  their  duties  ;  their  Meetings  had 
been  suspended  by  a  Letter  from  Lord  Grenville  to  the  British 
Commissioners,  and  nothing  more  would  be  requisite  than  a 
Letter  from  Lord  Hawkesbury,  instructing  them  to  resume  their 
business.     Lord   Hawkesbury  to  whom  I  had  before  expressed 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  53 1 

the  same  idea,  appeared  now  to  receive  it  as  a  matter  of  course. 
The  Chancellor  replied  that  the  subject  was  entirely  new,  to  him, 
and  after  a  short  pause,  said  it  was  an  important  one  and  that  he 
wished  it  had  been  mentioned  before  as  it  related  to  the  subject 
of  the  proposed  Convention. 

I  observed  that  I  could  perceive  no  other  connection  between 
the  two  Subjects,  than  that  the  Commission  had  been  stopped 
until  a  settlement  could  be  effected,  respecting  the  Commission 
in  America  ;  this  settlement  was  now  agreed  upon,  and  it  fol- 
lowed of  course  that  the  impediment  to  the  Proceedings  of  the 
Commission  here  should  be  removed. 

That  there  could  be  nothing  new  or  unexpected  in  this  commu- 
nication inasmuch  as  it  had  before  been  distinctly  explained  by 
me  to  Lord  Hawkesbury  when  he  informed  me  of  the  Cabinet's 
decision  to  accept  the  ^600.000. 

The  Chancellor  repeated  that  it  was  quite  new  to  him,  and 
that  in  his  opinion,  it  was  of  so  much  importance,  that  it  would 
be  proper  to  submit  it  to  the- consideration  of  the  Cabinet. 

Lord  Hawkesbury  immediately  said  he  would  summon  a  Cabi- 
net for  the  next  morning,  and  the  conference  ended  by  his  request- 
ing me  to  meet  him  again  between  2  and  3  o'clock  to-morrow. 

Oct.  16.  Attended  Lord  Hawkesbury's  appointment.  His  Lord- 
ship after  stating  the  occasion,  object  and  provisions  of  the  6th  and 
7th  articles,  and  pointing  out  their  similitude,  said  that  upon  a 
full  consideration  of  the  various  circumstances  belonging  to  the 
claims  under  the  6th  article,  and  having  regard  to  a  practicable 
and  final  settlement  of  them,  they  had  agreed  to  accept  ^600.000, 
which,  tho'  less  than  they  believed  might  have  been  recovered  by 
a  fair  execution  of  the  article,  was  nevertheless  a  sum,  that  under 
the  circumstances  of  the  claims,  it  was  prudent  and  proper  to  ac- 
cept ;  but  this  decision  had  been  made  without  adverting  to  the 
situation  of  the  claims  under  the  Seventh  Article.  They  now  found 
that  they  had  agreed  to  accept  what  was  less  than  fair  Justice  to 
the  British  Claims,  while  by  the  execution  of  the  Seventh  Article 
they  should  be  called  upon  to  do  complete  Justice  to  the  Ameri- 
can Claims  :  that  this  was  the  Light  in  which  the  subject  was  now 
seen  by  all  his  Colleagues  ;  they  had,  however,  come  to  no  deci- 
sion upon  it  ;  it  being  their  intention  to  consult  Lord  Grenville 
and  Mr.  Pitt,  for  the  purpose  of  understanding  the  motives  which 


532  RUFUS  KING.  [1801 

influenced  them  to  arrest  the  Proceedings  of  the  Committee  in 
England. 

I  replied  that  the  objection  when  made  by  the  Chancellor  yes- 
terday had  been  wholly  unexpected  ;  that  having  since  deliber- 
ately revised  all  that  has  passed  in  the  course  of  this  long  and 
serious  discussion,  the  effect  had  been  to  encrease  my  surprise 
that  at  this  stage  of  the  business,  and  after  it  had  been  so 
thoroughly  examined,  an  objection  should  be  started  which,  if  I 
understood  its  object,  would  be  likely  to  defeat  every  expectation 
of  a  satisfactory  settlement. 

It  must  have  been  known  that  there  was  a  Commission  in 
London  for  the  American  Claims  :  it  had  recently  been  proposed 
by  me  and  declined  by  his  Lordship,  as  an  arrangement  of  mutual 
convenience,  that  an  article  should  be  inserted  in  the  projected 
Convention,  agreeing  that  the  ^600.000  to  be  paid  by  the  United 
States  should  be  applied  in  discharge  of  the  awards  of  this  Com- 
mission, in  favour  of  our  citizens,  and  that  an  equivalent  sum 
should  be  distributed  by  the  British  Government  among  the 
British  Creditors  ;  moreover  that  the  very  Draught  of  the  Con- 
vention, which  we  had  just  settled,  and  which  the  Cabinet  had 
approved,  referred  to  the  Commission  in  London,  and  to  the 
future  execution  of  its  Duties  ;  that  a  settlement  of  the  diffi- 
culties which  had  arisen  in  the  execution  of  the  6th  Article  could 
alone  have  been  hoped  for,  or  effected  by  an  impartial  reference 
to  the  nature  of  these  difficulties,  and  a  due  consideration  of  the 
various  circumstances  of  the  Claims  of  the  Creditors. 

That  the  Commission  in  London  was  going  on  in  a  satisfactory 
manner,  when  it  was  stopped  by  the  interference  of  the  British 
Government  ;  tho'  the  circumstances  of  the  American  Claims 
were  altogether  dissimilar  from  those  of  the  British  Creditors  ; 
and  that  there  was  nothing  either  in  the  manner  in  which  the 
Commissioners  were  proceeding,  nor  in  the  nature  of  the  claims, 
why  the  Commissioners  should  not  proceed  to  do  complete  Justice. 

Notwithstanding  they  might  think  ^"600.000  less  than  complete 
Justice  to  British  Claims,  and  they  may  have  been  influenced  to 
accept  it,  by  the  desire  of  seeing  a  final  and  friendly  settlement  of 
the  business,  we  were  of  opinion  that  it  was  not  only  equal  to 
what,  upon  the  fair  interpretation  of  the  6th  article,  we  should 
have  been  liable  to  pay,  but  more  than  we  ought  to  pay,  having 


1801]  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  533 

regard  to  the  merit  of  the  claims  ;  and  even  with  a  view  to  a  final 
and  amicable  settlement,  that  it  was  the  highest  sum  that  pru- 
dence would  permit  us  to  give. 

That  the  proposition  of  converting  these  Claims  into  a  definite 
sum  and  abolishing  the  Commission  in  America,  had  proceeded 
from  them,  and  that  the  negotiations,  grounded  upon  this  pro- 
posal, had  been  carried  on  with  an  exclusive  reference  to  this 
Article  ;  that  when  his  Predecessor  Lord  Grenville,  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  discussion,  enquired  of  me  whether  I  had 
Powers  to  enter  into  a  similar  agreement  with  respect  to  the 
American  Claims,  I  had  explicitly  answered  that  I  had  no  such 
power  ;  and  in  August  last,  when  his  Lordship  communicated  to 
me  the  decision  of  the  Cabinet  to  accept  the  ^"600.000,  the  only- 
qualification  of  the  decision  related  to  the  manner  of  paying  the 
Money,  and  the  Right  of  the  Creditors  to  recover  their  Debts  in 
our  Tribunals,  both  which  points,  after  repeated  conferences,  had 
been  settled  :  that  at  the  interview  just  mentioned,  I  had  dis- 
tinctly informed  his  Lordship,  with  the  view  of  preventing  future 
discussion,  that  it  was  our  expectation  that  the  Commission  in 
London  would  be  allowed  to  meet,  and  proceed  in  the  discharge 
of  its  Duties,  as  soon  as  the  Settlement  respecting  the  sixth  article 
should  be  completed,  and,  as  the  American  Commissioners  were 
dispersed,  that  it  would  be  proper  that  measures  should  be  taken 
to  reassemble  them  ;  and  upon  his  Lordship's  assenting,  I  said 
that  I  would  charge  myself  with  recalling  them  to  London. 

That  I  had  sent  a  faithful  Report  of  our  several  conferences  to 
my  Government,  in  which  it  would  appear  that  our  expectation  of 
the  reassembling  of  the  Commission  in  London,  had  been  season- 
ably and  often  mentioned,  and  that  with  this  Report  and  the 
reputation  which  the  British  Cabinet  everywhere  enjoyed  of  never 
deciding  points,  even  of  inferior  importance,  without  seeing  them 
in  all  their  bearings,  it  would  not  be  extraordinary,  if  those  who 
had  not  had  the  advantage  of  personally  knowing  the  characters 
of  the  King's  Ministers,  should  ascribe  this  sudden  hesitation  to 
some  other  motive  than  that  which  had  occasioned  it. 

Unfortunately  too  the  affair  of  the  Maryland  Bank  Stock  would 
serve  to  encrease,  rather  than  to  remove,  suspicions  of  this  sort. 
Upwards  of  sixteen  years  had  elapsed  since  the  State  of  Maryland 
had  endeavoured  to  obtain  a  decision  upon  her  claim  to  this  Stock 


534  KUFUS  KING.  [1801 

in  the  Court  of  Chancery  of  this  country,  to  whose  Jurisdiction 
she  was  willing  to  submit.  Several  years  after  the  commence- 
ment of  a  suit  for  this  purpose,  the  Chancellor  discovered,  that 
having  no  means  of  enforcing  a  Decree  upon  an  independent 
State,  he  had  no  jurisdiction  to  try  the  merits  of  the  Question 
before  him.  The  Claim  then  became  the  subject  of  diplomatic 
representation,  and  a  number  of  years  having  been  spent  in  ex- 
plaining, conferring  and  exchanging  Notes  respecting  the  claim, 
it  has  been  recently  discovered  that  it  was  still  depending  in  the 
Court  of  Chancery,  and  that  it  would  be  unusual  and  indecorous 
to  make  that  a  matter  of  stipulation  which  was  in  the  possession 
of  the  Judiciary. 

I  concluded  my  observations  to  Lord  Hawkesbury  by  saying 
that  I  had  no  power  to  add  a  shilling  to  the  sum  which  had  been 
offered  and  accepted  as  a  settlement  of  the  6th  Article  ;  nor 
could  I  enter  into  a  negotiation  for  the  purpose  of  commuting 
the  claims  under  the  7th  Article.  If,  therefore,  the  objection 
which  had  been  started  by  the  Chancellor  should  be  persisted  in, 
the  claims  under  both  articles  would  be  set  afloat,  and  that  too  at 
a  period,  when  our  Commercial  Treaty  was  about  to  expire,  and  a 
new  negotiation  to  be  commenced  for  its  renewal.  Should  that 
fail,  the  commercial  intercourse  between  the  respective  Countries 
would  become  the  object  of  separate  and  retaliating  regulations. 

Lord  Hawkesbury  made  no  other  reply  than  by  repeating 
what  he  had  before  observed,  that  the  Cabinet  had  decided 
nothing  ;  being  desirous  to  obtain  information  of  the  views  of 
Lord  Grenville  and  Mr.  Pitt. 


R.  King  Probably  to  James  Madison. 

{Private.} 

London,  Oct.  20,  1801. 
Dear  Sir  : 

In  addition  to  my  official  letter  of  this  date,  it  may  be  satisfac- 
tory to  you  to  know,  if  more  money  shall  be  demanded,  that  I 
shall  refuse  of  course,  and  claim  the  execution  of  the  Conven- 
tion ;  if  a  commutation  of  the  7th  Article  be  asked  for,  I  shall 
decline  entering  into  any  discussion  for  that  purpose,  for  the  two- 
fold reason,  that  I  have  no  powers,  and,  if  I  had,  I  should  decline, 


1801J  LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE.  535 

the  claims  being  plain  and  comparatively  few,  and  the  Commis- 
sion, which  was  proceeding  in  an  unexceptionable  manner,  was 
the  best  means  of  ascertaining  their  amount. 

In  order  that  no  mistake  may  be  committed  on  our  part,  I  am 
calmly  and  beforehand  considering  the  course  it  may  be  proper 
for  me  to  pursue.  Should  the  objection  that  now  stops  us  be 
persisted  in  (the  import  of  which  seems  to  be  that  we  should 
give  more  money  than  they  have  consented  to  accept,  or  accept 
less  than  we  have  a  just  claim  to  receive)  I  shall  be  inclined,  ac- 
cording to  my  present  view  of  the  subject,  to  offer  to  sign  the 
Convention  that  has  been  agreed  to  respecting  the  6th  article, 
and,  as  a  consequence  thereof,  to  demand  the  removal  of  the 
Impediment  to  the  execution  of  the  7th  Article. 

Our  Havre  vessels  are  not  yet  released,  tho'  I  have  little  doubt 
that  they  will  be  discharged  in  a  few  days.  Tho'  General  Smith's 
valuable  ship  &  Cargo  were  without  excuse  detained  off  the  Texel, 
I  advised  the  Master  by  all  means  to  take  them  back  without  pur- 
suing satisfaction  ;  wh.  wd.  have  been  uncertain  and  at  the  ex- 
pence  of  the  long  detention  of  ship  and  cargo. 

Very  faithfully, 

Rufus  King. 

Sir  W.  Scott  to  R.  King. 

Commons,  Oct.  22,  1801. 
Sir  : 

I  do  myself  the  honour  of  returning  herewith  the  Copy  of  the 
Proceedings  of  the  American  Government  upon  the  Complaint 
which  arose  in  the  British  High  Court  of  Admiralty  in  conse- 
quence of  some  undue  Practices  appearing  in  the  case  of  the 
Brig  Sally  to  have  been  committed  by  Officers  in  one  of  the 
American  Custom-Houses.  * 

If  I  was  not  afraid  of  appearing  to  be  guilty  of  an  improper 
Presumption  in  exercising  any  minute  Judgement  upon  the  Con- 
duct of  a  great  Government,  I  should  venture  to  observe  that  the 
Lenity  shown  to  the  old  officer  seems  to  be  as  properly  applied, 
as  the  Severity  which  has  been  practised  upon  the  actual  delin- 
quents. 

*  Endorsed   "  Returning  Proceedings  of  the  Amer.   Govt,  respecting  Coll. 
Watson  which  are  highly  satisfactory." 


536  RUFUS  KING.  [180 1 

Perhaps  it  will  be  more  becoming  in  me  to  content  myself  with 
saying  that  as  far  as  I  am  concerned  (and  I  may  add  as  far  as  our 
Government  is  concerned)  the  Communication  has  fully  answered 
the  Purpose  of  shewing  that  the  American  Government  has  no 
disposition  to  connive  at  the  misconduct  of  its  officers. 

With  perfect  Respect  &  Esteem  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  Sir, 
your  obedient  &  very  humble  servt 

W.  Scott. 


"  Great  Cumberland  Place,  Oct.  27,  1801. 

"  Mr.  King  presents  his  compliments  to  Lord  Hawkesbury  and 
takes  the  liberty  to  ask  whether  his  Lordship  has  yet  completed 
the  Inquiry  respecting  the  suspension  of  the  committee  under 
the  VII  Article  of  the  Treaty  of  1794.,  that  he  was  desirous  of 
making  before  the  signature  of  the  Convention  which  has  been 
settled  relative  to  the  6th  article  of  the  same  Treaty." 

The  above  note  to  Lord  Hawkesbury,  to  which  no  direct 
answer  appears  to  have  been  given,  shows  the  persistency 
with  which  Mr.  King  called  upon  the  British  Ministers  to 
make  a  settlement  of  the  reasonable  demands  he  made 
upon  them  relative  to  the  pending  questions  between  the 
two  countries.  The  delays  interposed  were  in  part  due  to 
the  fact  that  the  new  Ministry  were  not  familiar  with  the 
whole  case,  but  as  he  had  carefully  explained  to  them  in 
person  and  by  note  what  had  taken  place  before,  it  seems 
that  a  captious  spirit,  on  the  part  chiefly  of  Lord  Eldon, 
and  a  studied  neglect  of  the  American  negotiations,  caused 
the  non-action  of  which  Mr.  King  justly  complained.  It 
was  merely  a  repetition  of  what  he  had  said  to  his  own  Gov- 
ernment before,  that  it  was  hard  to  bring  the  British  Minis- 
try to  take  up  any  matters  at  this  time,  except  those  which 
required  immediate  attention,  in  consequence  of  their  posi- 
tion in  reference  to  the  war  with  France,  and  the  attitude 
of  the  continental  powers.  The  further  discussion  and  final 
solution  of  these  matters  must  be  postponed  to  the  next 
volume. 


APPENDIX  I. 

CORRECTING  AN   ERROR   IN  VOLUME   II.,    PAGE   62. 

In  The  Nation  of  April  10,  1895,  there  is  a  review  of  the 
2d  volume  of  this  work,  which  contains  a  statement  of  a 
"blemish,"  which  requires  a  correction  on  the  part  of  the 
Editor,  which  was  made  and  published  in  that  paper  on 
April  25,  1895,  as  follows  : 

"  .  .  .  There  is  one  '  blemish  '  which  requires  a  correction 
inasmuch  as  there  is  an  inaccuracy  in  the  fact  stated,  and  ap- 
parent carelessness  on  the  part  of  the  gentleman  who  kindly  had 
the  Hamilton  Papers  in  the  State  Department  at  Washington 
examined  for  me,  giving  me  a  list  of  those  written  by  Rufus  King. 
The  charge  is  :  '  Nor  have  the  Hamilton  Papers  been  thoroughly 
searched,  as  they  contain  the  letters  described  by  the  Editor  as 
not  to  be  found.' 

"  These  letters  referred  to  were  two  written  on  April  17th  and 
20th,  the  year  not  given,  but  in  1796,  by  King  to  Hamilton  in 
answer  to  three  short  letters  by  the  latter,  published  on  page  61 
of  this  second  volume.  On  page  62  the  Editor  regrets  that  these 
letters  cannot  be  found,  '  as  they  must  have  given  some  interest- 
ing facts,  as  well  as  the  views  of  Mr.  King  relative  to  the  import- 
ant questions  under  review.  ...  A  search  for  them  in  the 
United  States  State  Department  among  the  Hamilton  Papers  by 
Mr.  Andrew  H.  Allen,  Chief  of  Bureau  of  Rolls  and  Library,  at 
the  Editor's  request,  has  been  unsuccessful.' 

4<  In  this  statement  there  are  two  serious  errors  :  the  first  is, 
that  they  are  among  the  Hamilton  Papers  in  the  Department  of 
State  ;  and  the  second,  that  in  the  list  furnished  to  me  of  the 

537 


$38      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

letters  of  King,  these  two  letters  are  noted  as  No.  16,  pages  141 
and  143  of  the  Hamilton  Papers.  Mr.  Allen  asked  me  to  mark 
on  the  list  such  as  I  desired  to  have  copied.  For  some  reason, 
for  which  I  cannot  account,  possibly  because  the  year  in  which 
they  were  written  was  not  in  them,  I  did  not  mark  the  letters  for 
copying  and  they  were  not  copied  ;  and  as  they  did  not  appear 
among  my  copies,  I  must  have  inferred,  most  carelessly,  that  they 
did  not  exist.  Mr.  Allen,  against  whose  accuracy  I  have  most 
unjustly  recorded  an  incorrect  statement,  was  therefore  not  in 
fault,  but  really  placed  at  my  disposal  the  desired  information.  I 
regret  that  I  cannot  make  this  correction  where  the  charge  is 
made,  on  page  62  of  this  second  volume,  but  I  shall  insert  it  in  an 
appendix  to  the  third,  where  a  copy  of  the  letters  shall  be 
placed. 

"Charles  R.  King, 
"  Editor  of  'Life  and  Correspondence  of  Rufus  King/ 

"Andalusia,  Pa., April  17,  1895." 


Hamilton  Papers,  No.  16,  p.  141. 
Rufus  King  to  Alexander  Hamilton. 

Monday  Morning  17  Ap. 

In  general  I  agree  in  the  course  you  recommend.  Separate 
Bills  will  be  reported  to  the  House  this  morning  providing  for 
the  Sp.  Ind.  &  Alg.  Treaties.  They  will  pass  the  H.  and  be  to 
the  Senate  by  the  middle  of  the  week.  I  perceive  no  impropriety 
in  adding  to  the  first  of  these  Bills  received  by  the  Senate,  and  in 
succession  to  each  of  them  if  requisite,  a  provision  for  the  Br. 
Treaty.  Such  amendment,  if  rec'd  in  the  House  before  they  take 
a  question,  it  is  believed  would  have  influence. 

[The  Merchants  and  traders'  is  signed  with  unexampled  una- 
nimity. Baltimore  have  prepared  a  similar  petition  wh.  will  be 
very  generally  signed.  Genl.  Smith,  who  is  now  there,  writes  that 
the  Treaty  has  gained  many  friends,  that  they  are  next  to  unani- 
mous in  favor  of  its  execution,  that  Annapolis  is  likewise  unani- 
mous, and  that  he  thinks  nine-tenths  of  the  State  are  for  carrying 
it  into  effect.     He  adds  that  a  memorial  has  been  drawn  up  and 


APPENDIX.  539 


signed  by  most  of  the  respectable  People  in  Baltimore,  approving 
the  President's  conduct  in  refusing  the  Papers],  that  he  thinks  a 
counter  memorial  could  be  obtained,  but  that  he  has  discouraged 
it  seeing  the  necessity  of  unanimity  at  the  present  crisis.  He  re- 
turns to-morrow  or  next  day  &  will  be  zealous  for  the  execution 
of  the  Treaty.     His  friends  may  be  induced  to  act  upon  his  mind, 

which  balances,  so  as  to  decide  it.     Adieu. 

R.  King. 

(Addressed)  Free.     R.  King — Alexander  Hamilton,  Esq.,  New 

York. 
(Endorsed)  R.  King,  Esq. — Rufus  King,  April  17,  1796. 

Hamilton  Papers,  No.  16,  p.  143. 

Wednesday  20.  Ap. 

The  Petitions  of  the  Merchants  and  others  will  be  presented 
to-day,  and  it  is  said  they  have  been  signed  by  almost  every  Mer- 
chant and  Trader  in  the  City.  Pettit,  Barclay  and  some  few 
others  are  exceptions.  A  counter  Petition  has  been  very  indus- 
triously carried  through  the  City  and  its  suburbs  ;  and  though 
very  few  Merchants,  Traders,  or  principal  Mechanicks  have 
signed  it,  it  will  show  a  long  catalogue  of  Names.  The  persons 
engaged  in  this  service  have  been  very  successful  in  the  Northern 
and  Southern  Liberties,  and  taking  their  stands  upon  the  wharves, 
they  have  collected  the  names  of  sailors  and  others,  as  well 
foreigners  as  Citizens.  Baltimore  has  become  very  jealous,  and 
I  fear  from  the  displeasure  at  the  conduct  of  Colo.  Smith,  they 
have  hazarded  his  vote  and  influence  whatever  it  may  me  [sic]  in 
the  Question  of  Provision  for  the  Treaty.  They  have  drawn  up 
a  Paper,  which  is  signed  by  almost  the  whole  body  of  Merchants, 
in  which  they  request  and  instruct  him  to  promote  by  the  proper 
provisions  the  Execution  of  the  Treaty.  His  inclination  was  in 
favor  of  a  Provision,  but  I  am  apprehensive,  his  Pride  will  be  so 
wounded  by  this  instruction  that  he  may  vote  against  his  judgment 
to  prove  his  independence.  We  shall  probably  receive  from  the 
House  today  a  Bill  making  an  appropriation  for  defraying  the 
Expences  of  carrying  into  effect  the  Sp.  Treaty. 

We  shall  amend  it  by  adding  a  provision  for  the  Br.  Treaty. 
If  the  House  disagree,  we  shall  adhere,  and  they  will  lop  the  Bill 


54-0      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING, 

by  refusing  our  amendment.  We  shall  then  add  to  the  Algerine 
Bill  an  amendment  providing  for  the  British  and  Spanish  Treaties. 
The  House  will  also  decide  the  Fate  of  this  Bill.  We  shall  then 
add  to  the  Bill  providing  for  the  In.  Treaty  an  amendment  pro- 
viding for  the  British,  the  Spanh.  and  the  Algerine  Treaties.  The 
House  will  also  decide  the  Fate  of  this  Bill,  we  shall  then  offer 
them  a  Bill,  providing  for  all  the  Treaties  ;  this  likewise  they  may 
reject,  but  my  Belief  is  that  the  opposition  will  give  way  before 
we  have  gone  through  this  course.     Yrs.  &c. 

Rufus  King. 

(Endorsed)  Rufus  King  Esq.,  (No  date)  April  20.     No.  3. 


APPENDIX  II. 

LETTERS  FROM  PRESIDENT  ADAMS  TO  J.  MARSHALL,  SECRE- 
TARY OF  STATE,  RELATIVE  TO  THE  6TH  ARTICLE  OF 
THE  TREATY  OF  AMITY,  COMMERCE,  AND  NAVIGATION 
WITH    GREAT   BRITAIN. 

These  letters  relate  to  instructions  to  be  sent  to  Mr.  King 
to  meet  the  questions  which  had  arisen  in  the  discussion  of 
the  suspension  of  the  Commission  on  the  6th  Article  of  the 
Treaty  between  him  and  Lord  Grenville  ;  the  particulars  of 
this  discussion  had  been  reported  to  his  Government  in  his 
dispatch  No.  67,  April  22,  1800,  p.  222. 

John  Adams  to  J.  Marshall,  Secretary  of  State.* 

Quincy,  August  1,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  have  twice  read  the  despatch  of  Mr.  King.  No.  67.  .  .  . 
I  am  glad  to  see  that  Lord  Grenville  expressed  his  opinion  that 
the  new  board  ought  to  proceed  in  a  different  manner  from  their 
predecessors,  by  deciding  cases  singly,  one  after  another,  instead 
of  attempting  to  decide  by  general  resolves  and  in  classes. 

The  idea  of  paying  a  gross  sum  to  the  British  government  in 


-X- 


Life  and  Correspondence  of  y.  Adams,  vol.  ix.,  p.  68. 


APPENDIX.  541 


lieu  of,  and  in  satisfaction  for,  the  claims  of  the  British  creditors, 
seems  to  me  to  merit  attention  and  mature  deliberation.  There 
will  be  great  difficulties  attending  it,  no  doubt.  How  can  we 
form  an  estimate  that  will  satisfy  the  American  government  and 
the  British  government  ?  How  shall  the  claims  of  British  credit- 
ors be  extinguished  or  barred  from  recovery  in  our  courts  of  law  ? 
Shall  the  claim  of  the  creditors  be  transferred  to  our  government 
and  how  ?  or  shall  it  be  a  total  extinguishment  of  debt  and  credit 
between  the  parties  ?  How  will  the  British  government  appor- 
tion the  sum  among  the  British  creditors  ?  This  however  is  their 
affair.  You  ask  an  important  question,  whether  such  an  arrange- 
ment can  afford  just  cause  of  discontent  to  France.  But  I  think 
it  must  be  answered  in  the  negative.  Our  citizens  are  in  debt  to 
British  subjects.  We  surely  have  a  right  to  pay  our  honest  debts 
in  the  manner  least  inconvenient  to  ourselves,  and  no  foreign 
power  has  any  thing  to  do  with  it.  I  think  I  should  not  hesitate 
on  this  account.  The  difficulty  of  agreeing  upon  a  sum  is  the 
greatest ;  but  I  am  inclined  to  think  this  may  be  overcome.  If 
nothing  of  this  kind  can  be  agreed  on,  and  the  British  government 
refuse  all  explanations,  I  think  good  faith  will  oblige  us  to  try 
another  board  ;  and  I  have  so  little  objection  to  the  modes  of 
appointing  a  new  board,  suggested  to  Mr.  King  by  our  government, 
or  by  the  British  government,  that  I  am  content  to  leave  it  to  Mr. 
King  to  do  the  best  he  can. 


<< 


J.  Adams  to  J.  Marshall,  Secretary  of  State.* 

"Aug.  II,  1800. 

.  .  On  the  1st  of  August  I  wrote  you  on  the  subject  of  a 
sum  in  gross  to  be  paid,  instead  of  going  through  all  the  chi- 
canery, which  may  be  practicable  under  the  treaty.  I  most  per- 
fectly agree  with  you  and  the  heads  of  department,  that  the 
proposition  merits  serious  attention.  My  only  objection  to  it  is 
one  that  cannot  be  seriously  mentioned.  I  am  afraid  that  as  soon 
as  this  point  of  dispute  is  removed,  such  is  their  habitual  delight 
in  wrangling  with  us  they  will  invent  some  other.  Some  pretext 
or  other  of  venting  their  spleen  and  ill  humor  against  us  they  will 
always  find.     This,  however,  cannot  be  gravely  urged  as  a  reason 

*  Life  and  Correspondence  of  John  Adams,  vol.  ix.,  p.  72. 


542      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


against  settling  this  quarrel.  I  am  willing  you  should  write  to 
Mr.  King  instructions  on  this  head.  Take  the  opinions,  however, 
of  the  heads  of  department  on  the  letter  before  you  send  it.  If 
they  are  unanimous  with  you  for  going  as  far  as  a  million  in  the 
latitude  given  to  Mr.  King  in  the  negotiation,  I  will  agree  to  it." 

Mr.  Marshall  on  23d  answered : 

"  I  understand  your  opinion  to  be  that  the  explanatory  arti- 
cles, if  attainable,  are  preferred  to  any  other  mode  of  accommo- 
dating the  differences  which  produced  the  dissolution  of  the 
board  lately  sitting  at  Philadelphia  ;  and  that  the  most  eligible 
mode  is  the  substitution  of  a  sum  in  gross  as  a  compensation  for 
the  claims  of  the  creditors  of  the  United  States.  On  this  idea 
the  letter  to  Mr.  King  is  drawn.  For  many  reasons  I  am  myself 
decidedly  of  the  same  opinion,  and  I  believe  there  is  with  respect 
to  it  no  difference  among  the  heads  of  department." 


J.  Adams  to  J.  Marshall,  Secretary  of  State. 

Quincy,  Aug.  2i,  1800. 
Dear  Sir  : 

I  received  last  night  your  letter  of  the  16th.  I  am  well  satis- 
fied with  all  its  contents.  The  only  thing  which  requires  any 
observation  from  me,  is  the  proposed  instruction  to  Mr.  King. 
As  far  as  I  am  able  to  form  a  conjecture,  five  millions  of  dollars 
are  more  than  sufficient,  provided  the  British  creditors  are  at  lib- 
erty to  prosecute  in  our  courts,  and  recover  all  the  debts  which 
are  now  recoverable.  I  agree,  however,  with  the  heads  of  de- 
partment, that  it  is  better  to  engage  to  pay  by  instalments,  or 
otherwise,  as  may  be  agreed,  the  whole  sum,  than  to  be  puzzled 
and  teased  with  a  new  board  and  two  or  three  years'  incessant 
wrangles.  I  should  be  for  instructing  Mr.  King  to  obtain  the 
lowest  sum  possible,  but  to  go  as  far  as  five  millions  rather  than 
fail.  I  wish  Mr.  King  may  be  furnished  with  as  many  reasons  as 
can  be  thought  of  for  reducing  the  sum.  I  pray  you  to  prepare  a 
Letter  to  Mr.  King,  as  soon  as  possible  ;  and  as  we  are  all  so  well 
agreed  in  all  principles,  I  do  not  think  it  necessary  to  transmit  it 
to  me,  &c  &c. 


APPENDIX.  543 


J.  Adams  to  J.  Marshall,  Secretary  of  State. 

Quincy,  30  August,  1800. 
Dear  Str  : 

My  ideas  are  perfectly  conformable  to  yours  in  your  instruc- 
tions to  Mr.  King,  as  you  state  them  to  me.  The  explanatory 
articles,  if  attainable,  are  preferable  to  any  other  mode.  The 
next  most  eligible  is  the  substitution  of  a  sum  in  gross,  that  sum 
to  be  as  small  as  can  be  agreed  to,  or  will  be  agreed  to,  by  the 
British  government,  but  to  agree  to  five  millions  of  dollars,  rather 
than  fail  of  explanations  and  substitutions  both,  and  be  compelled 
to  agree  to  a  new  board,  and  all  their  delays  and  altercations. 
.  .  .  Mr.  King's  letter  of  the  5th  of  July  is  a  melancholy 
picture  of  Britain.  Alas  !  how  different  from  that  held  to  view 
in  this  country,  twelve  months  ago,  to  frighten  me  from  sending 
to  France  !  However  Mr.  King  is  somewhat  of  a  croaker  at 
times.  He  is  apt  to  be  depressed  by  what  he  thinks  a  train  of 
unfortunate  events.  There  is,  however,  enough  of  likeness  in  his 
drawing  to  give  great  spirits  and  a  high  tone  to  the  French.  It 
will  be  our  destiny,  for  what  I  know,  republicans  as  we  are,  to 
fight  the  French  republic  alone.  I  cannot  account  for  the  long 
delay  of  our  envoys.  We  cannot  depart  from  our  honor,  nor 
violate  our  faith,  to  please  the  heroic  consul  (Bonaparte). 


APPENDIX  III. 

This  appendix  will  contain  extracts  from  a  memorandum 
book  of  Rufus  King  in  which  he  recorded,  as  will  be  seen, 
the  conferences  with  the  English  ministers  and  other  inter- 
esting matters  on  the  days  of  their  occurrence.  They  formed 
the  basis  of  much  of  his  official  correspondence  with  the 
Secretary  of  State,  sometimes  in  full,  at  others  with  explana- 
tions, which  though  interesting  were  not  always  necessary 
for  his  reports.  The  dates  of  those  here  given  are  earlier 
than  those  in  the  beginning  of  this  volume,  and  therefore  it 
was  deemed  advisable  to  place  these  extracts  together  in 
chronological  order  until  they  should  correspond  with  the 
period  covered  in  this  volume. 


544      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUE  US  KING. 

An  explanation  of  the  reason  why  the  memoranda  were 
not  published  in  their  proper  position  is  to  be  found  in  the 
fact  that  in  moving  the  King  papers  from  one  place  to 
another,  as  it  has  been  necessary  to  do  several  times,  the 
volume  containing  them  was  placed  at  last  in  a  drawer 
covered  over  with  other  books,  and  remained  undisturbed 
until  a  search  for  other  matters  revealed  it.  Its  contents 
are  now  given.  They  throw  light  upon  the  events  of  the 
mission,  show  the  ability  with  which  Mr.  King  discussed 
questions  which  arose,  and  the  confidential  and  honorable 
position  he  occupied  at  the  Court  of  St.  James,  and  give 
anecdotes  of  distinguished  men. 

"  I  met  Lord  Cornwallis  at  St.  James,  when  he  was  to  take  leave 
on  his  departure  to  India  :  he  came  to  me  and  told  me  that  he 
had  examined,  as  far  as  he  had  been  able,  the  claim  of  the  No. 
Carolina  Moravians  for  payment  for  supplies  furnished  his  army 
on  their  march  through  that  country  :  That  he  did  not  think 
they  had  been  paid,  certainly  they  were  not  paid  at  the  time,  for 
he  had  no  money  in  the  military  chest,  and  he  well  remembered 
the  supplies  in  the  Moravian  towns  from  this  particular  circum- 
stance. The  rum  or  whiskey  they  found  among  the  Moravians 
was  so  plenty,  that  the  army  got  drunk  and  he  was  very  uneasy 
lest  Gen.  Green  shd.  attack  him  when  the  army  were  in  a  condi- 
tion unable  to  resist." 

April,  1797. 
General  Baron  Hompesch,  a  German  who  served  in  the  Prus- 
sian and  Austrian  Armies,  and  who  raised  several  corps  now  in 
the  Br.  Service,  called  on  me  to  ask  my  aid  to  carry  600  Germans 
from  San  Domingo  (where  the  Regiments  to  wh.  they  belong  are 
disbanded)  to  America.  I  told  him  that  I  had  no  authority  to 
make  any  arrangements  of  this  nature.  He  afterwards  wrote  me 
a  note  requesting  me  to  recommend  his  project  (which  was  to 
settle  these  Germans  on  new  lands)  to  such  persons  as  I  sup- 
posed likely  to  engage  with  him.  I  replied  that  Sir  F.  Baring 
had  lately  purchased  lands  in  America  and  I  had  understood  that 
Mr.  Hope  was  concerned  with  him,  but  whether  they  would  en- 
gage in  his  project  I  could  not  say. 


APPENDIX.  545 


Afterward  the  General  called  on  me  and  told  me  he  shd.  go  to 
St.  Domingo  by  Philadelphia,  and  asked  letters,  which  I  gave  to 
Mr.  Bingham  &  Col.  Hamilton. 

May  3,  1797. 

Mr.  West  called  on  me — we  entered  into  politics  after  speaking 
of  the  Dinner  at  the  Royal  Academy  and  of  the  Annual  exhibi- 
tion ;  Mr.  West  said  things  respecting  Amer.  had  changed  very 
much  ;  that  people  who  cd.  not  formerly  find  words  of  unkindness 
eno'  now  talked  in  a  different  language  ;  that  the  King  had  lately 
spoken  in  the  most  explicit  manner  of  the  wisdom  of  the  Ameri- 
can Gov.  and  of  the  abilities  and  great  worth  of  the  characters 
she  produced  and  employed.     He  said  the  King  had  lately  used 

very  handsome  expressions   respecting  Mr.  Jay  and and  that 

he  also  spoke  in  a  very  pleasing  manner  of  Mr.  Gore. 

But  that  in  regard  to  Genl  Washington,  he  told  him  since  his 
resignation  that  in  his  opinion  "that  act  closing  and  finishing 
what  had  gone  before  and  viewed  in  connection  with  it,  placed 
him  in  a  light  the  most  distinguished  of  any  man  living,  and  that 
he  thought  him  the  greatest  character  of  the  age." 

Mr.  West  then  observed  that  he  had  been  very  peculiarly  cir- 
cumstanced ;  that  he  loved  his  own  country,  that  he  had  always 
felt  the  warmest  attachment  to  it  ;  that  he  owed  much  to  Eng- 
land ;  that  he  from  a  child  had  loved,  honored  &  revered  the 
House  of  Hanover  ;  that  the  Quakers  were  all  attached  to  that 
House  ;  that  moreover  the  King  had  been  his  friend  ;  that  but 
for  him  he  should  have  been  ruined  ;  that  plots  against  him  had 
failed  only  by  the  faithful  regards  of  the  King  ;  that  his  inter- 
course gave  him  frequent  opportunities  of  seeing  and  hearing 
things  of  which  others  were  ignorant.  That  the  King  was  a  good 
man,  an  amiable  and  virtuous  character  ;  that  he  was  step  by  step 
led  into  the  Amer.  War  ;  that  Lord  Mansfield  was  a  principal 
agent  and  with  the  Scotch  faction  were  the  authors  of  the  Amer. 
war. 

The  King  was  persuaded  that  f  of  the  Americans  were  agt.  tne 
claims  of  the  Colonies  ;  that  a  few  unquiet  and  disaffected  char- 
acters throughout  the  country  were  alone  active  or  engaged  in 
the  disturbances  and  that  the  mere  appearance  of  force,  a  few 
regiments  only,  and  a  firm  language  wd.  chase  away  the  agitators 
and  restore  quiet  and  universal  loyalty. 

vol.  Hi.— 35 


546      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

That  after  the  few  disasters  which  happened  in  the  scheme  of 
coercion,  he  was  still  told  that  a  small  additional  force  wd.  be 
sufficient,  that  a  vast  majority  of  the  colonists  were  his  friends, 
that  they  were  kept  in  awe  by  the  violence  of  a  few  persons  in  the 
several  colonies,  and  that,  if  these  characters  were  firmly  opposed, 
peace  and  order  wd.  return,  that  at  an  early  stage  of  the  war,  the 
King  asked  him,  whether  "  Washington  aimed  at  Sovereign 
Power  "  ;  on  wh.  occasion  he  told  the  King  that  his  means  of 
information  were  good,  that  he  "felt  great  confidence  that  he 
was  not  deceived,  and  that  from  the  language  and  opinions  of 
those  who  would  not  mislead  him,  he  was  satisfied  that  Washing- 
ton entertained  no  wish  to  put  himself  in  possession  of  Sovereign 
Power,  and  that  the  power  conferred  upon  him  would  be  relin- 
quished with  more  pleasure  than  it  was  reed." 

At  a  later  stage  of  the  War  when  Lord  Mansfield  made  a  cele- 
brated speech  concerning  Amer.  in  the  House  of  Peers  (called 
the  Rubicon  speech)  the  King  said  to  him,  Have  you  seen  his 
speech  (Lord  M's)  this  is  very  different  from  what  they  have 
always  told  me.  Mr.  West  added  that  the  Friends  of  the  Amer. 
War  made  the  King  believe  that  ^ths  of  the  People  of  America 
were  his  friends  and  in  opposition  to  the  Patriots  and  that  ambi- 
tion alone  actuated  Washington.  In  this  belief  the  King  used  to 
say  to  him,  "  Can  I  doubt  my  friends,  ought  I  not  to  protect 
them?"  and  alluding  to  Washington's  aiming  at  a  separation  in 
order  to  become  the  Amer.  Sovereign  he  said  I  never  will  submit 
to  that ;  I  will  go  myself,  I  will  put  myself  at  the  head  of  my 
Armies  and  reduce  my  enemies.  The  retirement  of  Washington 
from  the  army  affected  the  King,  but  he  was  silent  to  Mr.  West 
upon  the  subject.  The  late  resignation  wh.  corresponded  with 
what  West  had  told  the  King  led  him  to  speak  to  him  on  the  sub- 
ject and  to  take  notice  of  what  he  had  predicted. 

After  the  Amer.  War,  said  Mr.  West,  the  King  resolved,  and, 
by  the  prosperous  course  of  affairs  under  Mr.  Pitt's  administra- 
tion, he  was  confirmed  in  his  purpose,  never  again  to  go  to  war 
during  his  reign.  Pitt  likewise  determined  to  build  his  fame  on 
a  policy  of  peace.  It  was  therefore  with  the  greatest  difficulty 
that  the  King  was  persuaded  to  engage  in  war  agt.  Fr.  The 
Queen  was  early  disposed  to  take  a  part  :  formerly  she  did  not 
interfere  much  in  politics  ;  but  during  the  King's  derangement 


APPENDIX.  547 


she  had  great  authority  and  influence  with  him  ;  the  projected 
Regency  confirmed  that  influence,  and,  tho'  the  King  is  restored, 
he  has  not  been  able  to  free  himself  from  the  controul  of  the 
Queen.  .  .  .  But  Pitt,  who  had  been  placed  at  the  head  of 
affairs  while  still  a  youth,  who  had  caused  the  nation  to  flourish 
so  much  and  so  soon  after  the  waste  of  the  Amer.  War,  and  who 
had  with  such  firmness  and  wisdom  rescued  the  King,  during  his 
derangement,  from  a  scheme  of  Regency  that  would  entirely  and 
forever  have  excluded  the  King  from  the  Throne,  was  firmly  op- 
posed to  the  War. 

The  French  Emigrants,  some  of  the  dignified  Clergy  and  the 
remnants  of  the  authors  of  the  Amer.  war  all  conspired  to  repre- 
sent the  situation  of  France  to  be  such  that  a  fair  occasion  was 
presented  to  retaliate  upon  her  the  injury  she  did  England  by  the 
countenance  and  aid  given  to  the  Americans.  The  same  false 
representations  were  made  to  the  King  now,  as  had  been  made  in 
respect  to  the  Amer.  War.  France  was  exhibited  as  divided, 
convulsed,  impotent,  her  enemies  numerous,  powerful,  united, 
and  a  single  short  bloodless  campaign  was  alleged  to  be  sufficient 
to  restore  France,  not  to  what  she  was,  but  to  a  situation  of  more 
security  to  her  neighbours,  and  that  shd.  insure  the  continua- 
tion of  the  ancient  order  of  things  within  his  dominions.  Un- 
der this  expectation  the  King  consented  to  the  War,  and  it  is 
said  that  Mr.  Pitt  was  rendered  less  obstinate  by  the  gift  of  the 
Cinque  Ports.  The  division  that  soon  appeared  among  the  coali- 
tion (the  Imperialists  summoning  in  the  name  of  the  Emperor  one 
fortress,  the  English  in  the  name  of  the  King  another,  the  Prus- 
sians in  their  right  a  third,  and  the  Emigrant  Corps  conceiving  that 
the  restoration  of  the  Monarchy  and  not  the  Partition  of  France 
was  the  object  of  the  war)  disappointed  all  hopes  of  the  speedy 
termination  of  the  war  which  had  been  promised  and  by  the  con- 
tinuation of  military  operations  gave  an  opportunity  to  the  unfor- 
giving enemies  of  America  to  project  a  scheme  of  revenge  against 
that  country.  This  considering  the  past,  and  viewing  the  existing 
state  of  things  was  not  difficult ;  tho'  America  conducted  with 
great  prudence  and  her  Government  early  and  easily  resolved  to 
remain  neuter,  yet  the  intrigues  of  the  French  agents  in  Amer., 
the  sympathy  that  in  the  commencement  of  the  French  revolution 
all  Americans  felt  for  the  French,  whom  they  saw,  as  they  be- 


548      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

lieved,  struggling  agt.  ancient  abuses  &  oppression,  and  to  whom 
they  wished  success,  gave  occasion  to  those,  who  sought  for  it,  to 
represent  the  Amer.  neutrality  as  fraudulent — advantageous  to 
France  but  as  detrimental  to  England  as  an  open  war.  In  this 
belief  the  treatment  of  Americans  in  the  same  manner  as  French- 
men was  natural  enough.  Hence  originated  the  speech  of  Lord 
Dorchester  to  the  Indians,  hence  the  order  of  the  6th  of  Novem- 
ber 1793.  England  at  this  time  and  for  several  months  after- 
wards, and  until  she  began  to  experience  defeats  and  disasters  in 
the  war  with  France,  meditated  and  intended  a  war  with  America. 
Even  when  Mr.  Jay  arrived  in  England  this  opinion  prevailed. 
A  cabinet  council  hesitated  concerning  (if  they  did  not  decide) 
the  recept.  of  Mr.  Jay,  even  after  he  had  landed  at  Falmouth. 
The  disasters  wh.  about  this  period  happened  to  the  Allies  in 
Flanders,  added  to  the  loss  of  Toulon  wh.  happened  in  Dec.  in- 
clined the  balance  to  moderation,  Mr.  Jay  was  received  on  the 
1 8th  of  June  3  days  after  his  arrival  in  London,  and  10  days  after 
he  landed  at  Falmouth  ;  the  negotiation  commenced  and  ulti- 
mately terminated  in  the  American  Treaty. 

Reflection — This  anecdote  concerning  the  intention  to  have 
gone  to  war  agt  America,  places  in  the  strongest  light  the  wise 
policy  of  Mr.  Jay's  mission,  which  carrying  with  it  the  most  de- 
cisive evidence  of  moderation  and  a  desire  to  remain  in  peace, 
more  than  the  disasters  of  Toulon  or  of  Flanders,  influenced  and 
restrained  the  Ministry.  The  nation  at  large  had  no  desire  of 
another  American  war,  and  the  Ministry  would  not  have  dared  to 
make  such  a  war  after  the  mission  of  Mr.  Jay,  wh.  would  have 
refuted  all  conjectures  and  imputations  of  a  desire  in  Amer.  to 
engage  in  the  war.  But  it  is  far  from  being  certain  that  the  Br. 
Cabinet  desired  or  meditated  a  war  against  the  U.  S.  It  is  confi- 
dently said  that  the  orders  given  to  Lord  Dorchester  did  not 
authorize  him  to  make  the  speech  he  did  make  to  the  Indians  ; 
and  in  respect  to  the  advance  and  taking  post  at  the  Miami  it  was 
repugnant  to  his  Lordship's  orders  shewn  to  me  in  the  Duke 
of  Portland's  office.  Lord  Dorchester  had  asked  the  question 
whether  he  might  advance  beyond  the  old  line  and  was  answered 
that  the  old  posts  were  to  be  retained  &  defended,  but  that  they 
must  not  be  passed  and  that  he  must  not  take  any  new  post  within 
the  American  boundary.  General  Simcoe  confirmed  to  me  and  said 
if  war  had  followed  Lord  Dorchester  wd.  have  forfeited  his  head. 


APPENDIX.  549 


It  seems,  however,  difficult  to  understand  how  L.  D.  ventured  on 
the  measure,  hostile  certainly  it  was,  wh.  he  took.  Might  there 
not  have  been  secret  orders  which  were  repugnant  to  those  shewn 
to  me  ?  Compare  the  speech  of  L.  D.  and  his  proceedings 
together  with  the  order  of  the  6.  of  Nov.  1793  agt.  the  Ameri- 
can Commerce,  with  the  conduct  of  the  British  Diplomatic 
agents  at  Stockholm,  Copenhagen,  Genoa  &  Florence  which 
held  this  language  that  whoever  was  not  against  France  was 
on  the  side  of  France  and  that  every  State,  instead  of  remain- 
ing neuter,  was  bound  to  take  the  side  of  France  or  her  enemies. 

The  failures  of  the  Allies  in  Flanders  and  at  Toulon  altered 
this  mode  of  thinking  wh.  grew  out  of  the  Treaties  agt.  the  power 
of  France  concluded  in  1793,  between  England,  Russia  and  Prus- 
sia, the  Emperor,  Portugal  &  Spain  ;  all  of  which  aimed  ex- 
plicitly at  the  destruction  of  the  trade  of  France  and  of  that  of 
every  other  State  wh.  sh.  attempt  to  trade  with  France.  See  the 
instruction  of  the  Empress  of  Russia  to  her  Admiral  wh.  explains 
the  views  of  the  coalition  more  distinctly  than  any  other  docu- 
ment. The  order  of  Nov.  6.  1793  proceeded  from  this  confeder- 
acy and  was  recalled  when  all  hopes  began  to  fail  and  not  before  ! 

July  13. 

The  King  to-day  spoke  to  me  of  Mr.  Adams'  Speech  delivered 
at  the  late  extraordinary  meeting  of  Congress.  It  was  Mr. 
Adams'  first  Speech.  The  King  said  he  liked  the  Speech  ;  that 
he  thought  it  shewed  great  dignity,  and  stopping  a  moment  in  his 
conversation  he  added  that  he  thought  the  Speech  had  more 
dignity  in  it  than  he  had  seen  in  Genl.  Washington's  Speeches  ; 
whether  as  Washington  had  commanded  the  army  he  thought  it 
advisable  to  avoid  the  appearance  of  authority,  or  from  some 
other  cause,  he  could  not  tell,  but  in  his  opinion  Mr.  Adams' 
Speech  bore  a  greater  air  of  authority  and  firmness  than  he  had 
seen  in  any  Speech  of  Washington.  I  said  no  one  was  better 
able  to  form  a  sound  opinion  concerning  his  country  than  Mr. 
Adams  was,  and  having  calmly  made  up  his  mind,  no  one  had 
more  firmness.  The  King  then,  rather  archly,  with  a  wink  of  one 
of  his  eyes,  took  notice  of  the  difference  in  the  address  in  Mr. 
Adams'  Speech  from  that  of  his  Predecessor,  Mr.  Adams  having 
used  the  word  "  Gentlemen  "  &  not  those  of  "  fellow  citizens," 
and  then  proceeded  with  the  observation  that  small  circumstances 


550      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

of  this  sort  often  had  a  great  influence  on  pub.  opinions  ;  he 
then  asked  concerning  the  manner  in  which  the  President  was 
received  when  he  delivered  his  Speeches,  whether  the  members 
were  attentive  to  their  dress  on  that  oceasion,  whether  the  Presi- 
dent came  with  any  attendants  &  in  full  dress  ;  I  satisfied  him  in 
these  Enquiries,  and  he  concluded  by  saying  that  tho'  these  were 
things  in  themselves  indifferent,  still  that  an  attention  to  them  or 
an  omission  of  them,  had  a  much  greater  effect  in  favoi  of  or  agt. 
the  just  authority  of  Magistrates  than  was  commonly  supposed. 

July  29th,  1797. 

Doct.  Davies  the  Provost  of  Eton  College,  with  whom  I  made 
an  acquaintance  at  Mr.  Anstey's  invited  Anstey,  Gore,  myself  and 
our  wives  to  come  to  the  Eton  election  and  to  take  our  quarters 
at  his  Lodge. 

We  accepted  his  invitation  and  went  today.  This  College  is 
a  noble  institution,  it  contains  about  400  boys  from  7  to  19 
years  old.  70  are  on  the  Foundation,  who  lodge  and  dine  in  the 
College  ;  the  others  are  called  oppidans,  live  in  the  town  and  are 
instructed  in  the  College.  Formerly  the  education  was  not  ex- 
pensive, at  present  it  is  otherwise  ;  for  mere  board  and  instruction 
the  charges  will  reach  80  Guineas  a  year.  Some  boys  spend 
^150,  or  200  a  year.  Nothing  is  taught  here  but  Latin  &  Greek. 
The  School  or  College  as  it  is  called  certainly  turns  out  a  great 
many  excellent  scholars,  and  as  the  sons  of  the  nobility  and  of 
others  who  are  the  most  distinguished  in  the  Govt,  of  the  country 
are  educated  here,  it  may  be  advisable  for  an  Englishman  to  send 
his  children  to  this  Seminary,  since  their  early  connections  may 
prove  advantageous  to  them  at  future  stages  of  their  lives. 

Ten  or  twelve  years  of  the  life  of  a  young  man  seems  too  long 
a  space  to  be  given  to  the  mere  acquisition  of  dead  languages.   .  .  . 

Nov. 

Col.  Trumbull  who  had  been  to  Stutgard  returned  by  Paris 
from  whence  he  arrived  on  the  nth.  .  .  .  He  brought  me  no 
letter  from  the  Envoys.*  He  however  had  seen  and  confidentially 
conversed  with  them  :  his  report  was  this  : 

*  He  brought  a  cipher  dispatch  from  the  Envoys  to  be  sent  to  the  Secretary 
of  State. 


APPENDIX.  551 


The  American  Envoys  after  sending  a  note  to  Mr.  Talleyrand 
(the  Min.  of  For.  Affrs.)  announcing  their  presence  in  Paris, 
waited  on  him  at  an  hour  named  for  that  purpose  when  they  de- 
livered a  copy  of  their  commission  &c.  Mr.  Talleyrand  said  he 
was  preparing  a  Report  on  the  subject  of  the  U.  S.  to  be  presented 
to  the  Directory,  and  as  soon  as  he  had  delivered  it,  he  shd  re- 
ceive their  orders  concerning  their  mission.  Mr.  Talleyrand  said 
something  concerning  Cards  of  Hospitality  wh.  were  afterwards 
sent  to  the  Envoys  naming  them  in  their  public  character.  Trum- 
bull left  Paris  more  than  a  month  after  the  arrival  there  of  the 
Amer.  Envoys. 

Some  days  after  the  interview  with  Talleyrand  Mr.  Hotanger 
and  Mr.  Bellamy,  men  in  the  intimacy  of  Talleyrand,  with  Mr. 
Dotville  also  of  Talleyrand's  acquaintance  made  frequent  visits 
to  the  Envoys,  which  resulted  in  giving  them  this  information, 
that  in  order  to  enable  them  to  conclude  a  Treaty  &c.  or  in  other 
words  to  settle  all  misunderstandings,  they  must  pay  down  a 
million  of  Livres  to  be  distributed  among  such  persons  as  Mr. 
Talleyrand  shd.  select  ;  that  the  U.  S.  must  likewise  agree  to 
make  a  loan  of  money  to  France,  and  these  points  being  acceded 
there  wd.  be  no  difficulty  in  respect  to  the  terms.  After  repeated 
conversations  which  connected  these  propositions  with  the  Office 
of  For.  Affairs,  the  Amer.  Envoys  gave  a  decided  negative  to 
them,  and  caused  it  to  be  signified  to  Mr.  Talleyrand  that  they 
shd.  hold  no  other  conversations  with  any  persons  except  such  as 
shd.  be  regularly  and  fully  appointed  and  authorized. 

Trumbull  dined  with  Talleyrand  who  said  that  our  Envoys  were 
slow,  that  they  must  come  to  some  conclusion  soon — that  French- 
men were  impatient  and  decided  as  well  as  acted  with  prompti- 
tude. 

Trumbull  replied  that  they  were  men  of  great  prudence  & 
would  weigh  well  every  step  in  order  that  they  might  not  pass 
over  their  instructions. 

Talleyrand  said  people  who  were  going  3000  miles  from  home 
shd.  act  on  discretion,  and  that  they  shd.  not  be  confined  by  in- 
structions. The  conversation  of  Talleyrand  confirmed  the  truth  of 
the  propositions  made  in  his  name  to  the  Amer  Envoys,  and  dis- 
covered his  impatience  that  they  had  not  acceded  to  them.  He  said 
nothing  of  the  letter  that  I  had  written  to  him,  asking  a  passport 


552      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 


for  Trumbull.  Paine  (Thomas)  was  at  Paris  and  went  occasion- 
ally to  visit  the  Envoys.  He  cautioned  them  to  avoid  Trumbull, 
wh.,  he  said,  was  suspected  to  be  sent  to  Paris  by  me.  Gerry 
answered  with  spirit,  and  even  supposing  this  to  be  the  fact,  what 
and  who  forbids  an  intercourse  between  the  mins.  of  the  same 
nation  residing  in  difft.  countries.  When  Trumbull  left  Paris, 
the  probability  was  that  the  Amer.  Envoys  wd.  be  sent  away. 

Soon  after  Trumbull's  return,  or  a  little  before  it,  Lord  Gren- 
ville  informed  me  that  France  had  lately  renewed  her  demand 
of  Spain  for  the  cession  of  Louisiana.  (See  my  letter  to  the  Secy 
of  State.) 

Some  days  after  this  communication  Ld.  G.  informed  me  that 
Portugal  paid  down  a  considerable  sum  to  obtain  his  Treaty  and 
that  this  money  enabled  the  Directory  to  march  the  army  wh. 
effected  the  Revolution  of  the  4th  of  September. 

In  a  letter  (in  Genl.  Pinckney's  cipher)  I  sent  these  two  im- 
portant facts  to  the  Amer.  Envoys  in  Paris. 

Dec.  23d. 

Col.  Trumbull  who  had  once  or  twice  before  told  me  that  he 
had  information  that  proposals  of  Peace  had  been  made  thro' 
Talleyrand  to  the  Br.  Govt,  informed  me  this  evening  that  such 
proposals  had  last  night  been  answd.  in  the  negative  by  this 
Govt.  The  terms  offered  were  more  favorable  than  those  de- 
manded at  Lisle  by  Ld.  Malmesbury,  and  the  price  or  bribe  of  a 
million  sterling  to  be  divided  among  Directory,  ministers  &  others  ; 
Talleyrand's  Department  to  share  ^100,000  sterg. — Hotanger  & 
Bellamy  (the  same  persons  as  were  sent  by  Talleyrand  to  our 
Envoys)  began  this  project  with  Williams  the  agent  of  Beckford 
at  Paris.  Williams  was  so  sanguine  that  the  Br.  Cabinet  wd.  ac- 
cept the  project,  that  he  went  so  far  as  to  engage  to  pay  down 
;£i  0,000  sterlg.  in  case  the  Project  was  distinctly  made  and  authen- 
ticated by  Talleyrand.  This  was  agreed  to  by  Talleyrand.  The 
papers  were  given  to  Williams  of  whom  the  ^10,000  Sters.  was 
asked.  He  gave  a  check  on  his  Banker  at  Paris  ;  but  before 
making  it  felt  some  doubt  whether  he  was  not  going  too  far,  he 
sent  for  his  Banker  and  instructed  him  to  refuse  his  check  on 
such  reasons  as  were  plausible  and  would  the  least  compromise 
the  drawer.     The  Check  or  Draft  was  accordingly  refused,  and 


APPENDIX.  553 


Williams  stated  that  he  had  no  other  means  than  to  proceed  to 
Engd.,  where  he  could  at  once  present  the  project  and  command 
funds.  He  accordingly  came  to  Engd.,  and  the  project  was  thro' 
Beckford  presented  to  Mr.  Pitt,  who  was  the  person  that  last 
night  gave  a  negative  answer  to  Beckford.     Trumbull  reed,  this 

account  in  order  to  be  communicated  to  me,  from ,  who 

saw  and  read  all  the  papers. 

Dec. 

The  Speaker  (Mr.  Foster),  in  a  conversation  at  Dinner  at  the 
Master  of  the  Rolls,  said  upon  my  making  a  query  respecting  the 
policy  of  the  King's  subscribing  to  the  voluntary  contributions, 
that  the  King  had  no  money  ;  that  the  revenues  of  Hanover  were 
all  spent  in  a  parade  court  which  was  kept  up  there,  and  that  the 
^60,000  Sterg.  which  was  all  that  went  to  his  privy  purse  annu- 
ally was  barely  sufficient  to  defray  the  expenses  to  wh.  he  was 
unavoidably  exposed.  I  replied  that  there  was  an  opinion  that 
the  King  had  hoarded  and  that  he  was  rich,  and  that  even  I  had 
heard  persons  of  some  consideration  say  so,  and  point  out  Lord 
Liverpool  as  having  the  King's  confidence  in  the  management 
and  security  of  his  property.  The  Speaker  said  that  he  was  well 
satisfied  that  the  opinion  was  quite  ill  founded  in  respect  to  his 
riches,  and  that  with  regard  to  Lord  Liverpool,  he  rarely  saw  the 
King,  that  there  had  been  a  time  when  from  the  influence.of  Lord 
Bute,  Lord  Liverpool  (then  Hawkesbury  or  Jenkinson)  might 
have  had  a  certain  connection  or  a  degree  of  confidence  in  the 
King's  affairs  ;  but  that  Pitt  (who  said  the  Speaker  you  will  natu- 
rally suppose  sees  everything  that  is  going  on)  had  told  him  that 
the  King  rarely  or  never  sees  Lord  Liverpool,  who  was  of  a  cer- 
tain consequence  in  reference  to  commercial  regulations,  but  in 
other  respects  wholly  a  negative  character  in  the  Cabinet. 

It  was  at  the  same  dinner  at  the  Master  of  the  Rolls,  that  the 
Speaker,  mentioning  Lord  Cornwallis  in  terms  of  approbation, 
said  to  me,  you  certainly  know  the  singular  circumstance  that  oc- 
curred to  him  concerning  the  Amer  War.  On  my  answering  in 
the  negative,  the  Speaker  said,  Cornwallis  was  in  the  very  begin- 
ning opposed  to  the  measures  agt.  America  and  protested  against 
them.  Lady  Cornwallis,  who  was  about  the  Queen  &  the  Court 
and  who  was  tenderly  attached  to  her  Lord,  became  extremely 


554      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING, 

anxious  lest  her  husband  shd.  be  called  upon  to  serve  agt.  the 
Americans,  whose  cause  he  thought  well  of.  Being  in  favor  with 
the  Queen  she  imprudently  insinuated  to  her  Majesty  the  embar- 
rassments to  wh.  Ld.  Cornwallis  wd.  be  exposed  sh.  he  be  required 
to  serve  in  Amer.  and  in  this  manner  desired  to  engage  the 
Queen's  influence  to  prevent  his  being  called  into  that  service, 
Ld.  Cornwallis  by  some  means  obtained  a  knowledge  of  this  im- 
prudence of  his  wife,  saw  with  anxiety  the  dilemma  to  wh.  it  had 
exposed  him  and  decidedly  immediately  as  the  only  means  of 
preserving  his  character  as  a  soldier  to  solicit  a  command  in 
Amer.  which  was  immediately  given  to  him.  The  consequence 
was  that  Lady  Cornwallis  saw  in  its  true  light  the  indiscretion  of 
which  she  had  been  guilty  and  very  soon  after  died  with  grief 
and  distress  at  her  own  misconduct. 

Jany  24th,  1798. 

Dined  at  Lord  Bathurst's,  Mr.  Pitt,  Dundas,  the  Chief  Justice, 
Master  of  the  Rolls,  Adml.  Colpoys  and  the  Speaker  were  the 
Party.  The  evening  was  pleasant  because  the  conversation  was 
without  reserve  and  carried  on  as  a  meeting  of  public  men,  who 
had  been  school  fellows  and  early  friends.  Sitting  next  Mr. 
Pitt  he  answered  my  enquiries  with  freedom  respecting  the  state 
of  things  upon  the  Continent,  and  particularly  concerning  the 
probable  fate  of  Hamburgh  wh.  according  to  the  last  accounts,  it 
was  his  opinion,  was  not  in  so  dangerous  a  situation  as  we  had 
apprehended.  Hopes  were  entertained,  that  Denmark  wd.  shew 
some  spirit  and  be  disposed  to  aid  the  King  of  Prussia  in  main- 
taining the  neutrality  and  safety  of  the  North  of  Germany. 

Mr.  Pitt  after  referring  to  the  Law  proposed  by  the  Directory 
affecting  neutral  ships  laden  with  the  manufactures  or  productions 
of  Eng.  or  of  her  dominions,  said  he  earnestly  hoped  that  we  shd. 
see  this  subject  in  its  true  light.  My  answer  was  that  I  thought  I 
could  not  mistake  the  opinions  and  conduct  of  our  Govt.  wh.  wd. 
be  to  resist  with  force  a  pretension  so  totally  repugnant  to  the 
rights  of  peaceable  and  independent  states. 

Mr.  Pitt  then  said  that  they  were  about  regulating  by  a  new 
law  the  business  of  Convoys,  that  it  was  their  intention  to  compel 
all  their  ships  to  go  under  Convoys,  that  some  of  the  regulations 
in  their  proposed  system  must  depend  on  the  opinions  and  per- 


APPENDIX.  555 


haps  the  co-operation  of  other  friendly  nations— that  if  the 
neutral  affected  by  the  projected  law  of  France  (and  if  particu- 
larly America  wd.  do  so)  and  wd.  agree  to  furnish  a  naval  force 
proportionate  to  their  means,  to  be  employed  as  Convoys,  there 
would  be  little  difficulty  in  frustrating  the  views  of  France  and  of 
effectually  securing  even  beyond  what  it  had  been,  the  commerce 
of  the  neutral  nations  ;  for  that  Eng.  herself  was  able  to  convoy 
the  trade  of  the  neutrals,  wh.  she  wd.  be  willing  to  do,  and  the 
contingent  or  proportion  of  naval  force,  wh.  in  case  of  such  con- 
vention wd.  be  required  of  the  neutrals  wd.  be  nominal  rather  than 
real ;  that  it  shd.  be  something  was  of  importance  both  to  the 
neutrals  and  to  the  effect  desired  in  this  respect  to  be  made  in 
France.  Such  a  system  of  Convoys  might  in  this  way  be  divided 
as  wd.  give  full  security  to  neutrals  and  increase  even  that  wh. 
Engd.  would  give  to  her  own  ships  ;  because  certain  of  the  regu- 
lations wh.  will  be  requisite  to  inforce  the  system  of  Convoys 
must  depend  upon  the  consent  and  co-operation  of  the  neutral 
Govts,  (alluding  I  presume  to  the  proposed  regulation  of  refusing 
an  entry  to  a  vessel  that  had  refused  convoy,  or  having  taken  it, 
had  by  design  or  accident  parted  from  it  until  the  convoy  to  wh. 
she  belonged  or  shd.  have  been  attached  shall  have  arrived). 

Mr.  Pitt  added  that  he  hoped  I  saw  and  believed  and  knew  to 
be  the  case,  that  all  the  passions  wh.  once  unfortunately  existed 
here  concerning  America  were  extinguished,  and  that,  without  in 
his  belief  the  exception  of  a  single  character  of  any  sort  of  influ- 
ence, the  desire  and  the  hearty  &  earnest  wish  of  England  was  to 
increase  and  perpetuate  the  friendship  with  America.  If,  said 
he,  there  is  any  one  event  more  than  another  that  cd.  inspire  the 
Eng.  nation  with  confidence  and  enthusiasm  in  the  present  struggle, 
it  wd.  be  to  find  themselves  engaged  with  America  against  a 
common  enemy. 

Tuesday  Jany  30.  98. 

It  is  a  fortnight  or  more  since  Mr.  Calhoun  (James  jr.  of  Balti- 
more) who  had  passed  from  Dover  to  Calais  in  expectation  of 
being  allowed  to  enter  the  French  Republic  in  order  to  claim  cer- 
tain property  captured  by  their  cruizers,  informed  me  that  in  the 
same  Packet  Boat  in  which  he  returned  from  Calais  to  Dover 
General  Miranda  came  to  England.     I  had  heard  nothing  respect- 


556     LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

ing  Miranda  since  the  Treaty  between  Spain  and  France  until  his 
name  was  published  as  concerned  with  others  in  the  pretended 
conspiracy  defeated  by  the  Revolution  of  the  18th  Fructidor  (4th 
Sept.  1797).  Miranda  had  formerly  been  in  England  and  left  it 
dissatisfied.  He  was  engaged  in  a  project  for  the  liberation  of  S. 
America  under  the  auspices  of  France  in  the  first  stages  of  the 
French  Revolution,  and  afterwards  served  in  the  French  Army 
under  Dumourier  in  Flanders.  Having  been  in  the  French  ser- 
vice during  the  present  war,  it  was  plain  his  coming  to  Engd. 
must  be  with  the  knowledge  of  the  Eng.  Govt. 

Several  hints  and  suggestions  from  high  authority  have  induced 
me  to  believe  that  Engd.  is  desirous  of  attempting  to  separate  So. 
America  from  Spain  ;  and  that  the  ministry  calculate  upon  the 
probable  co-operation  of  the  U.  S.  of  A.  I  have  therefore  been 
attentive  and  inquisitive  concerning  the  motions  of  Miranda. 

This  forenoon  Miranda  called  on  me,  and  after  a  few  observa- 
tions respecting  our  former  acquaintance  in  Amer.  wh.  was  very 
slight,  he  turned  to  the  state  of  our  affairs  with  France  ;  spoke  of 
the  great  misfortunes  to  wh.  we  had  been  exposed  by  our  two 
appointments  to  that  nation.  Morris  without  discretion  had 
openly  adhered  to  the  Court  at  a  moment  when  it  was  falling,  and 
Monroe  had  acted  as  the  agent  of  an  Amer.  faction  instead  of 
representing  the  sentiments  and  protecting  the  interests  of  his 
nation  ;  that  it  was,  however,  now  too  late  to  correct  these  false 
steps,  and  it  was  useless  to  complain,  or  to  hope  that  any  means 
that  wd.  be  yielded  to  by  Amer.  wd.  prevent  an  open  rupture — 
perhaps  good  might  even  proceed  from  it.  France  is  lost  and  all 
the  continent  is  nearly  in  the  same  situation.  Nothing  can  save 
them.  But  Liberty,  rational  Liberty,  order  and  Government  will 
survive  the  ruin  that  awaits  the  nations  upon  the  old  Continent. 

England  will  be  able  upon  a  certain  system  to  preserve  her 
Government  and  property  ;  to  do  wh.  she  must  cease  to  re- 
gard Europe  and  look  to  the  New  World.  She  does  look  with 
anxiety  to  the  U.  S.  and  desires  to  cultivate  their  friendship  and 
to  establish  the  most  perfect  harmony  with  them.  If  the  U.  S. 
and  Great  Britain  shd.  be  driven  by  joint  operations  to  oppose 
France,  nothing  will  then  be  more  easy  than  to  separate  So. 
America  from  Spain.  I  have,  said  Miranda,  been  with  Mr.  Pitt. 
We  have  again  come  together,  tho'  I  was  ill  used  on  a  former  oc- 


APPENDIX.  557 


casion.  The  Nootka  Sound  business  was  a  mere  pretence  ;  we 
intended  to  have  severed  So.  Amer.  from  Spain,  but  Mr.  Pitt 
relinquished  the  plan.  But  he  now  goes  into  it  with  zeal.  I  have 
gone  over  with  him  the  whole  project — nothing  is  so  practicable 
— the  population  of  the  Span.  Territories  on  the  Contt.  of  Amer. 
is  equal  to  10,000,000,  4  millions  of  whom  are  descendants  of 
Spaniards,  the  others  are  Americans.  They  are,  however,  civilized 
and  capable  of  being  happy  as  members  of  a  polished  Society. 
Every  thing  is  ripe  for  the  completion  of  the  plan.  Twenty  five 
Commissioners,  now  in  Madrid,  have  lately  sent  to  me  to  cooper- 
ate with  them  and  others  in  making  So.  Amer.  independent. 
There  can  be  no  disagreement  between  S.  and  N.  Amer. — the 
Mississippi  is  a  strong  marked  and  natural  boundary,  and  the 
state  of  society  in  the  Northern  and  Southern  Departments  is 
such  that  they  must  be  mutually  useful  to  each  other  and  cannot 
be  rivals. 

Spain  has  take  the  very  grounds  wh.  give  to  the  U.  S.  of  Amer- 
ica a  just  as  well  as  a  convenient  reason  to  go  to  war  with  her. 

I  have,  continued  Miranda,  as  yet  taken  no  measures  to  de- 
velop the  plan  to  the  Amer.  Govt.  All  must  first  be  arranged 
here  with  the  Br.  Government.  I  shall,  if  you  will  allow  me,  said 
Miranda,  communicate  to  you  more  fully  what  passes  &  is  likely 
to  be  arranged  with  Mr.  Pitt  and  his  associates,  and  at  a  proper 
time  I  shall  dispatch  a  confidential  person  to  Philadelphia. 

I  think  more  passed  at  this  interview  than  I  here  report,  but 
the  above  is  an  outline.  I  joined  in  the  conference  so  far  only  as 
gave  an  opening  to  Miranda  to  explain  the  object  of  his  visit.  It 
is  my  duty  to  understand  what  is  meditated  upon  this  very  im- 
portant topic,  but  it  wd.  be  wholly  improper  in  any  degree  to 
commit  my  country  or  myself. 

Upon  an  intimation  from  me  that  Engd.,  I  suspected,  wd.  engage 
in  the  project  under  the  influence  of  her  commercial  monopoly  sys- 
tem, and  if  so  that  the  U.  S.,  as  well  indeed  as  So.  America  itself, 
might  feel  no  strong  or  peculiar  regard  in  its  favor,  Miranda  said 
this  had  been  formerly  the  error  of  Engd.,  but  that  it  was  now 
abandoned  and  that  the  benefits  derived  from  the  trade  of  the 
independent  U.  S.  of  America  had  gone  far  to  persuade  her  that 
her  former  system  and  wishes  were  erroneous. 

After  mutual  expressions  of  civility  the  conference  ended. 


558      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

In  a  conversation  with  Lord  Grenville,  Mr.  King  writes : 

Feby.  ist. 

I  touched  upon  Miranda's  being  here.  Lord  G.  immediately 
entered  into  a  conversation  respecting  him  and  his  project.  I 
found  the  turn  of  his  mind  not  favorable  to  Miranda's  character. 
I  spoke  with  reserve  concerning  the  project,  said  I  had  seen  Mi- 
randa, who  without  in  any  degree  knowing  anything  of  my  way  of 
thinking  disclosed  his  project  and  spoke  of  his  expectations  from 
Engd.  In  order  to  understand  Lord  G.,  I  said  that  I  did  not 
sufficiently  understand  Miranda  to  appreciate  with  any  degree  of 
confidence  his  character,  but  that  the  enterprise  was  one  of  im- 
mense size  and  wd.  lead  to  inconsiderable  and  unimportant 
consequences. 

L.  G.  immediately  said  that  he  wd.  without  reserve  say  to  me 
that  at  this  moment  he  did  not  much  like  the  scheme.  Perhaps 
the  attempt  might  lead  to  scenes  of  wretchedness  upon  our  con- 
tinent similar  to  those  that  had  been  exhibited  in  France  ;  that 
the  event  wd.  happen  &  cd.  not  long  be  delayed.  The  terrible 
examples  of  France  would  in  the  minds  of  prudent  men  inspire 
doubt  whether  the  present  moment  was  in  all  respects  that  wh. 
wd.  be  wished  in  order  to  consummate  the  Independ.  of  So. 
Amer.  I  carelessly  said  that  we  had  a  great  interest  in  keeping 
as  far  as  possible  from  us  the  examples  that  had  lately  been  given 
in  France  and  must  therefore  sincerely  hope  that  they  might  not 

be  repeated  in  our  neighbourhood. 

Feby  8. 

I  returned  Gen.  Miranda's  Visit.  .  .  .  He  asked  me  if 
in  my  dispatches  I  had  mentioned  him  and  his  project  ?  I  re- 
plied that  I  had  in  a  summary  manner.  He  then  read  to  me  so 
much  as  he  had  of  a  letter  to  Col.  Hamilton  (wh.  on  my  return 
home  he  sent  to  me  to  be  forwarded).  It  spoke  of  a  letter  or  two 
that  he  had  written  to  the  Col.  from  Paris,  to  wh.  he  had  received 
no  answer  ;  hinted  at  his  project  and  observed  that  Harper's 
Pamphlet  had  done  much  good  in  Europe. 

We  pretty  soon  fell  into  a  conversation  upon  his  plan.  I  asked 
him  if  he  had  thought  of  a  scheme  of  Govt,  in  case  of  success. 
He  answered  that  he  had  and  that  his  part  of  his  project  was  now 
in  circulation  with  the  others  among  the  Cabinet.  I  proposed, 
sd.  he,  a  Monarchy  with  a  House  of  Lords  and  Commons. 


APPENDIX.  559 


It  is  immaterial  who  is  king,  all  we  want  is  an  hereditary- 
House.  The  family  of  the  Incas  still  exist;  I  will  do  them  jus- 
tice so  far  as  it  is  now  practicable,  and  call  them  to  the  throne  of 
their  ancestors.  The  Nobility  will  be  found  in  the  country  and 
may  easily  be  brought  into  their  proper  place.  The  Representa- 
tives will  be  chosen  upon  a  safe  and  convenient  plan.  Do  you 
propose  to  unite  Mexico  to  Peru  under  one  Govt.  ?  The  popu- 
lation of  both  does  not  exceed  14  millions  and  my  idea  is  to 
unite  them  in  one  Govt.  What  of  the  Brazils  ?  Nothing  for  the 
present  :  that  will  come  afterwards.  Where  will  you  make  your 
descent  ?  On  the  E  side  of  the  Isthmus  of  Darien.  Is  there  not 
a  considerable  force  there  ?  Perhaps  1400  men  and  many  of  the 
Officers  are  in  our  plan.  What  force  will  you  want  ?  I  have  re- 
quired of  Engd.  8000  foot  and  2000  horse  ;  but  they  shd  be  sea- 
soned or  W.  Ind.  Troops  :  besides  this  Engd.  must  send  a  small 
squadron  into  the  Pacific  Ocean  wh.  must  appear  on  the  Coast  of 
Peru — and  from  the  U.  S.  we  should  want  5000  Woodmen  or 
soldiers  who  understand  new  countries  — besides  I  should  hope 
for  many  of  the  old  Amer.  Captains  and  Majors  who  served  in 
the  last  war.  So.  Amer  is  now  weak,  their  best  troops  having 
been  sent  to  relieve  Manilla.  We  shd.  effect  the  emancipation 
without  shedding  blood. 

What  benefit  do  you  hold  out  to  Engd  to  induce  them  to  aid 
you  ?  Our  future  trade  in  common  with  the  U.  S.  of  Amer., 
and  in  order  to  avoid  the  never  discharged  claim  of  gratitude, 
I  propose  to  pay  them  in  ten  years  thirty  millions  sterling.  We 
shd.  impose  a  toll  on  the  Passage  of  the  Isthmus  over  wh.  all  the 
trade  to  and  from  Asia  will  pass.  Upon  the  Eng.  &  Amer.  (that 
is  U.  S.)  goods  say  one  per  Ct.,  on  those  of  others  one  &  -J  per  ct 
— this  however  is  mere  illustration.  The  Mississippi  must  be  the 
boundary  between  us — and  with  respect  to  the  Islands,  except- 
ing Cuba,  we  care  nothing  about  them  ;  they  will  be  worth  little 
after  Sh.  Amer.  shall  be  free.  The  Sugar,  Coffee,  Cotton  and 
other  tropical  productions  whereof  will  be  eno.  for  all  the  World. 

Feby.  12. 

Miranda  called  on  me  today  and  shewed  me  an  instrument 
executed  in  France  in  Dec.  1797  by  him  and  two  other  Spaniards, 
who  qualify  themselves  as  the  agents  of  a  Congress  or  society  of 
their  countrymen  now  at  Madrid,  and  as  Commissioners  or  agents 


560      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

of  the  Span.  Provinces  in  So.  America.  (Mr.  King  gives  the  sub- 
stance of  the  instrument  similar  to  that  Miranda  had  explained  in 
the  previous  conference  relative  to  the  expectations  from  G.  B.  & 
the  U.  S.)  The  articles  contained  various  other  regulations  which 
we  read  thro'  ;  after  which  he  asked  me  how  far  I  approved 
them  ;  I  replied  that  it  was  best  in  all  measures,  and  especially 
in  those  of  great  importance  to  deal  with  frankness  ;  I  therefore 
would  say  that  it  gave  me  pleasure  to  renew  my  acquaintance 
with  him  and  that  I  was  of  course  gratified  in  knowing  what  was 
on  the  tapis  concerning  So.  America  ;  but  I  should  lead  him 
perhaps  into  an  error  and  fall  into  one  myself,  if  I  did  not  say 
that  I  had  not  the  least  knowledge  of  the  sentiments  of  my  own 
Government  upon  the  business  in  wh.  he  was  engaged  ;  and  that 
therefore  I  could  not  be  supposed  to  make  any  observations  or 
express  any  opinions  that  in  any  manner  wd.  commit  my  Govt. 
After  saying  this  I  shd.  have  no  reserve  in  conversing  with  him, 
and  shd.  moreover  be  glad  to  know  how  he  shd.  find  the  senti- 
ments of  this  Govt.  ;  that  he  would  however  naturally  suppose 
that  I  might  think  it  my  duty  to  apprize  the  Prest.  of  the  U.  S. 
that  he  was  here  and  entertained  hopes  that  G.  Britain  might  co- 
operate in  a  plan  for  the  emancipation  of  his  country. 

Miranda  consented  to  our  conversations  standing  on  this 
footing. 

He  spoke  of  Monroe  and  of  his  having  applied  to  him  by  letter 
to  procure  information  that  Hamilton  had  given  him  certain 
papers  to  deliver  to  certain  characters,  or  to  be  made  use 
of,  in  Engd,  respectng  the  U.  S.  So.  Amer.  &  England.  He 
said  he  had  given  him  a  proper  answer,  and  sent  to  Hamil- 
ton as  well  the  copies  of  Monroe's  letter  as  of  his  answer. 
He  said  further  that  Monroe  had  contributed  to  mislead  the 
French  in  their  opinions  of  the  U.  S.  ;  that  Boissy  d'Anglas  told 
him  that  Monroe  had  publickly  said  in  the  presence  of  the  French 
leaders,  that  Washington  was  "  an  Intrigant  and  an  Aristocrat  "  ; 
that  this  character  was  ascribed  to  Washington  by  the  principal 
Frenchmen,  who  had  no  hesitation  in  quoting  Monroe  as  their 
Authority. 

P.  S.  Miranda  in  a  subsequent  conversation  told  me  that  Boissy 
informed  him  that  Monroe  in  the  presence  of  the  Comitt.  of  Pub. 
Safety,  said  that  Washington  and  his  party  in  the  Amer.  Govt. 


APPENDIX.  561 


were    aristocrats    and    intriguers — Trumbull   was    present    when 
Miranda  made  this  communication. 

Feby.  15. 

In  a  conference  with  Ld.  Grenville  on  other  subjects,  I  said  I 
see  Miranda  is  still  here.  Ld.  Grenville  immediately  replied  that 
they  had  concluded  to  keep  him  here  ;  that  if  Spain  shd.  be  able 
to  preserve  her  independence  and  prevent  a  Revolution  in  her 
Govt.,  they  shd.  not  enter  into  the  project  respecting  S.  Amer.  ; 
but  if  it  was  really  to  be  apprehended  Spain  shd.  fall  beneath  the 
control  of  France,  then  it  was  their  intention  to  endeavour  to 
prevent  France  from  gaining  to  their  cause  the  resources  of  So. 
America.  In  this  event  they  shd.  immediately  open  their  views 
and  commence  a  negotiation  upon  the  subject  with  the  U.  S.  At 
present  considering  the  risque  of  seeing  the  example  of  France 
repeated  in  So.  Amer.,  and  that  too  under  an  aid  and  countenance 
of  G.  Br.,  they  thought  it  impolitic  to  engage  in  the  plan  of 
Miranda.  My  business  was  to  gain  information,  I  was  therefore 
silent ;  but  this  tenderness  for  Spain  adds  something  to  the  evi- 
dence before  the  public,  that  notwithstanding  Spain  and  England 
are  at  war,  there  is  a  secret  understanding  between  them  that  on 
the  one  hand  restrains  Spain  from  a  vigorous  and  hearty  co- 
operation with  France,  and  on  the  other  induces  England  to  do 
as  little  injury  to  Spain  as  possible. 

Feby.  15. 
Count  Staunburgh  (the  Austn.  Minr.),  in  a  conversation  rela- 
tive to  the  late  peace  between  Austria  &  France,  said  the 
Emperor  is  weak  &  honest.  The  Empress  has  great  influence 
over  him  and  she  has  affections  for  other  interests  than  those  of 
Austria.  M.  Thugut  was  deceived  ;  he  thought  M.  de  Gallo  was 
a  plain,  simple,  honest  man,  when  in  fact  he  is  a  cunning  Italian. 
When  M.  Thugut  sent  de  Gallo  to  the  Camp  of  Buonaparte  he 
gave  him  ostensible  powers  only  ;  but  there  is  reason  to  believe 
that  he  had  secret  instructions  from  the  Emperor,  obtained 
clandestinely  by  the  Empress.  It  is  plain  that  he,  contrary  to 
Thugut's  Sentiments  or  expectation,  concluded  a  Treaty.  Co- 
benzel  was  then  sent  to  Adina  with  de  Gallo.  Whether  he  was 
bribed  or  not  cannot  be  proved  ;  but  he  is  poor,  had  been  expen- 
sive and  did,  at  this  epoch,  pay  off  a  Debt  of  400,000  Roubles 

VOL.    III. — 36 


562      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 


that  he  owed  in  Russia.  No  one  can  account  for  the  means 
wh.  enabled  him  to  do  so,  and  perhaps  he  is  injured  in  the  suppo- 
sition that  they  were  supplied  by  Buonaparte.  He  however 
co-operated  with  de  Gallo,  and  while  Thugut  was  contriving  to 
defeat  the  Treaty  Cobenzel  definitively  concluded  it ;  and  what 
is  more  he  has  succeeded  to  the  influence  in  the  Cabinet  of  Austria 
that  belonged  to  the  integrity  and  firmness  of  Thugut. 

March  20. 

Our  Convoy  for  America  will  probably  sail  from  Spithead  to- 
day, as  the  wind  is  N.  E.  I  should  record  the  fact  that  this 
convoy  was  wholly  unsolicited,  except  by  the  merchants  and 
underwriters.  Tho'  I  had  determined  not  to  suffer  our  spring 
ships  to  sail  without  asking  a  convoy,  in  case  it  shd.  not  be  volun- 
tarily offered,  and  took  this  decision  immediately  after  the  pass- 
ing of  the  Fr.  law  for  the  capture  of  all  neutrals  laden  in  whole 
or  in  part  with  merchandize  of  the  manufacture  or  production  of 
Engd.  or  of  her  Dominions,  I  also  determined  not  to  make  the 
request  until  the  last  moment.  It  never  became  necessary  and 
was  not  therefore  made. 

Conversing  on  the  20.  Feby  with  Ld  Grenville,  relative  to 
affairs  on  the  continent,  Ld.  G.  said  among  other  things. 

Tn  respect  to  Sweden  France  seems  to  have  acquired  her 
former  ascendency  and  of  course  nothing  can  be  expected  from 
that  quarter.  No  more  decisive  proof  of  this  could  be  given 
than  the  appointment  of  Baron  de  Stael,  the  Swedish  Ambassador 
to  France.  Sweden  had  ordered  her  Charge  d'  Affaires  to  an- 
nounce the  accession  of  the  young  King — France  refused  to  receive 
the  Charge  d'Affaires,  on  the  pretence  that  he  was  not  of  a  grade 
usually  sent  in  former  times  to  the  King  of  France  to  announce 
a  similar  event.  An  apparent  misunderstanding  took  place  in 
consequence  of  this  measure  between  Fr.  &  Sweden.  Count 
Fursen  was  sent  to  Rastadt — Buonaparte  treated  him  as  all  the 
world  knows.  Afterwards  Noel,  the  Fr.  Ambassador  at  the 
Hague,  intimated  to  the  Envoy  of  Sweden  there,  that  Fr.  was 
desirous  of  exchanging  Envoys  with  Sweden,  and  that  the  ap- 
pointment of  the  Baron  de  Stael  (who  every  one  knows  to  be 
devoted  to  Fr.)  wd.  be  considered  by  the  Directory  as  a  proof  of 
the  friendship  and  good   disposition   of   the    King  of   Sweden. 


APPENDIX.  563 


Sweden  readily  agreed  to  send  and  receive  an  Envoy  to  &  from 
Paris  and  proposed  to  send  M.  d'Asp  then  in  London  as  Envoy, 
(who  sd.  Ld.  G.  is  likewise  in  sentiments  a  Frenchman)  to  Paris  ; 
the  Directory  refused  to  receive  him,  and  gave  it  to  be  plainly 
understood  that  they  wd.  receive  no  other  person  except  the 
Baron  de  Stael.  Sweden  has  named  the  Baron  de  Stael  its  Envoy 
to  Paris  with  an  intimation  that  he  shd.  make  two  conditions  with 
the  Directory  previous  to  his  presenting  his  credentials.  One 
that  Count  Fursen  shd.  be  reed,  at  Rastadt,  another  that  Noel 
shd.  not  be  sent  to  Stockholm.  The  Baron  de  Stael  has  pre- 
sented his  credentials  and  been  reed.,  without  receiving  either  of 
the  Conditions.  The  inference  Ld.  G.  made  was  that  little 
vigour  wd.  appear  either  in  Sweden  or  Denmark  in  opposition  to 

France. 

March  23d. 

It  is  four  or  five  days  since  Miranda  called  on  me,  and  after 
saying  that  he  had  concluded  to  send  one  of  his  associates  who 
was  now  here  to  So.  America  in  order  that  their  friends  might  be 
exactly  informed  of  the  situation  of  Europe  and  the  probability 
that  Engd.  and  perhaps  the  U.  S.  would  assist  them  in  throwing 
off  the  Government  of  Spain,  he  observed  that  he  intended  to 
send  his  companion  first  to  Philadelphia  ;  and  as  he  had  now 
wasted  two  months  to  know  Mr.  Pitt's  determination,  he  had 
drawn  up  a  memorial  to  him  calculated  to  ascertain  it ;  he  had 
the  draft  which  he  read  to  me.  The  part  thereof,  that  announced 
his  intention  to  send  a  person  to  So.  America  by  the  way  of 
Philadelphia  asserted  that  I  wd.  give  to  this  person  "  letters  of 
recommendation."  I  told  Genl.  Miranda  that  I  thought  it  wd. 
be  desirable  to  omit  the  clause  wh.  asserted  that  I  wd.  give  a 
letter  of  recommendation,  and  to  say  that  the  person  went  to 
Philadelphia  with  my  knowledge — avec  la  connaissance  de  Mr. 
K.  &c.  After  some  farther  conversation  he  altered  his  draft  ac- 
cordingly. A  few  davs  after  he  sent  me  a  French  paper  printed 
in  London,  wh.  speaking  of  the  invasion  of  Portugal,  suggested 
that  the  Court  and  Grandees  of  Portugal,  with  the  Navy,  &c.  wd. 
retire  to  Brazil  and  endeavour  to  overthrow  the  Span.  Govt,  in 
So.  Amer.  This  project  might  go  further  ;  they  might  endeavour 
to  bring  abt.  an  alliance  between  Engd.  &  No.  &  So.  America, 
wh.  wd.  be  able  to  resist  the  power  of  France. 


564      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

The  morning  after  sending  me  this  paper  he  himself  called  on 
me  and  said  he  had  sent  his  memorial  to  Mr.  Pitt,  and  instead  of 
saying  that  the  person  to  be  sent  to  Philadelphia  wd.  proceed  avec 
la  connaissance  de  Mr.  King,  &c,  he  had  said  "  avec  lettre  de  M. 
King,"  &c  ;  tho'  I  did  not  entirely  approve  of  the  alteration,  I 
took  no  notice  of  the  change.  He  then  shewed  me  the  draft  of 
the  letter  with  wh.  he  intended  to  charge  the  person  going  to 
Philadelphia  (and  who,  he  said,  wd.  depart  in  the  next  Packet 
for  New  York)  to  the  President. 

The  draft  was  proper,  and  by  reference  to  the  copies  of  the 
Precis  that  had  been  given  by  him  to  Mr.  Pitt,  which  he  said  he 
shd.  transmit  with  the  letter  to  the  President,  he  disclosed  his 
whole  project.  1  did  not  discourage  this  measure,  as  in  the  actual 
state  of  our  affairs  with  France  &  Spain  it  appeared  to  me  advis- 
able that  our  Govt.  shd.  possess  an  exact  view  of  the  probabilities 
of  the  separation  of  So.  America  from  Europe.  I,  however,  re- 
solved to  take  an  early  opportunity  to  speak  with  Ld.  Grenville 
or  Mr.  Pitt  upon  the  subject,  lest  there  shd.  be  an  opinion  enter- 
tained that  I  was  forming  any  authorized  arrangements  with 
Miranda,  and  to  say  sincerely  that  my  wh.  object  was  to  give  to 
the  President  an  exact  knowledge  of  what  appeared  to  be  passing 
upon  this  very  interesting  and  important  subject. 

March  26,  Wednesday. 

I  called  this  morning  on  Ld.  Grenville  and  explained  to  him 
the  import  and  extent  of  my  Conversation  with  Miranda,  and  that 
the  letter  wh.  I  should  give  to  Mr.  Caro  wd.  be  merely  introduc- 
tory, without  either  approbation  or  disapprobation  of  the  object 
of  Caro's  visit  to  Philadelphia.  We  spoke  of  the  situation  of  our 
affairs  with  France,  and  I  suggested  to  Ld.  G.  that  according  to 
my  view  of  the  subject  it  did  not  appear  improbable  that  our 
Envoys  might  remain  in  Paris  until  they  heard  from  home. 

Respecting  S.  Amer.  Ld.  G.  repeated  to  me  the  sentiments  that 
he  had  expressed  on  a  former  occasion.  If  Spain  falls  beneath 
the  power  of  France,  England  who  is  prepared,  will  begin  the 
business  with  So.  Amer.  ;  and  according  to  present  appearances, 
Spain  is  on  the  eve  of  a  Revolution.  The  new  French  Ambassa- 
dor Truguet  has  been  received  at  Madrid,  he  appeared  at  Court 
in  his  boots  and  upon  its  being  remarked  that  this  was  contrary 


APPENDIX.  565 


to  the  usage  of  the  Court,  he  replied  that  all  that  folly  was  passed 
and  that  the  Ambassadors  of  the  Great  Nation  could  not  pay  any 
respect  to  customs  so  little  reasonable  &  so  perfectly  frivolous. 

Ld.  Grenville  said  he  had  no  hesitation  to  tell  me  that  they  had 
lately  made  an  offer  to  Spain  to  save  So.  Amer.  from  the  approach- 
ing Revolution  &  to  defend  it  from  French  intrigues  and  attack 
if  Spain  wd.  resist  the  French  and  join  in  a  common  effort  to  save 
Portugal ;  but  that  there  was  not  a  likelihood  that  Spain  would 
adopt  the  plan.     .     .     . 

Speaking  of  Amer.  his  Lordship  asked  me  if  I  had  heard  any 
cause  assigned  for  Liston's  absence  from  Phila.  ?  I  answered 
in  the  negative.  He  said  it  was  very  odd,  and  that  he  did  not 
send  him  there  to  make  the  tour  of  America. 

May. 

The  publication  of  the  instructions  and  correspondence  of  the 
Envoys  from  the  U.  S.  to  France  has  been  read  with  great 
avidity  in  this  country.  Mr.  Sheridan  said  to  Mr.  Long  of  the 
Treasury,  "  I  quitted  the  Jacobins  in  season  ;  they  must  be  given 
up  ;  the  American  Negotiation  is  too  strong  to  be  denied  or  ex- 
plained." 

The  King  in  his  conversation  with  me  appeared  much  pleased 
with  the  discovery  that  the  firmness  &c  of  the  Amer.  Govt.,  espe- 
cially in  their  determination  to  fulfill  the  Treaty  with  Engd., 
has  had  its  effect  in  confirming  the  good  w^ll  of  many  persons 
towards  the  U.  S. 

Mr.  King,  in  dispatch  No.  69,*  March  17,  1798,  to  the 
Secretary  of  State,  had  written  that  the  English  Govern- 
ment would  soon  bring  before  Parliament  a  bill  imposing  a 
2j  per  cent,  impost  upon  the  exports  and  imports  of  Great 
Britain  to  afford  convoys  to  the  neutral  trade,  and  to  pay  the 
expense  thereof ;  and  again  on  May  1  ith,  that  Mr.  Pitt  would 
next  week  bring  this  matter  before  Parliament.  On  May 
2 1st  Mr.  King,  the  bill  having  been  introduced  and  adopted 
by  the  House  of  Commons,  sent  to  Lord  Grenville  a  memo- 
rial protesting  against  its  provisions  as  injurious  to  the  United 
States    and    contrary  to    the    spirit    and    provisions    of  the 

*  Vol.  ii.,  p.  290,  of  this  work. 


566      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

treaty  between  the  United  States  and  Great  Britain  relative 
to  their  commercial  regulations.  The  memorial  is  a  very 
long  one,  as  is  also  Mr.  King's  dispatch  of  June  1st  to  the 
Secretary  giving  an  account  of  an  interview  with  Lord  Gren- 
ville  and  Mr.  Pitt  on  May  25th  for  the  purpose  of  discussing 
the  project  as  passed.  But  in  the  Memorandum  Book  there 
is  a  report  of  this  interview  more  succinct,  but  covering  the 
chief  points,  which  is  here  given. 

May  25th,  Friday. 

By  appointment  met  Mr.  Pitt  &  Lord  Grenville  at  Mr.  Pitt's  on 
the  subject  of  my  memorial  of  the  21st. 

Mr.  Pitt  said  that  in  respect  to  the  Impost  on  Imports  so  far  as 
the  discrimination  on  Cotton  *  was  concerned  it  was  in  fact  the 
same  Ad  Val.  Duty,  and  the  sums  were  for  simplicity,  but  that  it 
might  be  thrown  into  a  difft.  shape. 

EXPORT    DUTY. 

That  he  hoped  on  consideration  that  I  shd.  not  see  the  pro- 
posed Tax  so  objectionable  as  I  had  done  ;  that  in  the  first  place 
there  was  no  restraint  upon  them  in  the  Treaty  wh.  could  prevent 
them  from  adopting,  consistent  with  good  faith,  the  proposed 
Tax  ;  that  the  Treaty  only  restrained  them  and  us  from  pro- 
hibiting the  exportation  by  either  of  articles  permitted  to  be  ex- 
ported from  our  respective  countries  by  others,  but  was  entirely 
silent  about  equality  of  Duties  and  indeed  concerning  Duties  on 
Exports  ;  that  the  reason  was  undoubtedly  a  sufficient  one  that 
had  induced  the  U.  S.  by  a  fundamental  law  to  abstain  from 
Duties  upon  their  Exports  ;  that  Great  Britain  had  no  such  law, 
nor  was  she  restrained  except  by  what  she  shd.  deem  sound  policy 
from  imposing  a  Duty  on  her  Exports  ;  that  the  sum  she  wd,  im- 
pose must  therefore  be  regulated  by  those  mere  considerations  of 
policy  wh.  are  applicable  to  the  Question  ;  that  I  had  intimated 
in  my  Memorial  the  principal  motives  wh.  influenced  them  in  pro- 
posing a  discrimination  ;  it  was  alleged  that  their  manufacturers 
experienced  a  great  competition  in  the  European  markets  but  not 
in  those  of  America,  and  in  addition  to  this  opinion  it  shd.  be  un- 
derstood that  the  Tax  was  merely  a  war  Tax,  and  though  not 

*  The  memorial  had  objected  to  the  Duties  as  affecting  injuriously  various 
articles  in  the  trade  between  the  twc  countries — manufactures,  tobacco,  Cot- 
ton &c. 


APPENDIX.  567 


coupled  with,  yet  to  be  considered  in  connection  with  the  protec- 
tion in  the  shape  of  convoys,  wh.  it  was  intended  shd.  be  afforded 
to  the  Amer.  as  well  as  Br.  trade  ;  that  we  had  already  a  proof 
that  they  were  disposed  to  give  to  our  ships  the  same  convoy  as 
to  their  own,  and  that  they  shd.  continue  to  do  so,  and  tho'  the 
proposed  Duty  on  Exports  to  Amer.  was  higher  than  that  on  Exp. 
to  Europe  that  it  was  the  same  as  they  had  laid  upon  their  own 
colonies  and  upon  other  consumers  in  America  ;  and  that  on  the 
whole  he  hoped  we  shd.  perceive  the  measure  to  be  one  that  in 
their  present  situation  they  could  not  give  up. 

I  replied,  after  relating  what  I  had  said  in  my  Memorial,  that 
tho'  there  was  no  express  restraint  in  the  Treaty  equivalent  to 
that  contained  in  our  Constitution,  still  however  from  the  obvious 
intention  of  the  parties  to  render  reciprocal  the  advantage  of 
their  commerce,  I  must  infer  that  we  could  not  have  expected  to 
have  been  subjected  to  this  Tax,  more  especially  at  a  moment 
when  the  interruption  &  embarrassment  of  the  manufactures  of 
other  nations  did  not  leave  us  as  wide  a  field  in  wh.  to  seek  supplies 
as  heretofore  was  open  to  us.  But  if  this  consideration  was  given 
up  and  if  from  the  want  of  attention  to  and  foresight  of  the 
present  state  of  the  trade  and  manufactures  of  Europe  we  omit- 
ted to  secure  ourselves  by  an  express  stipulation  agt.  a  duty  upon 
the  Exports  of  G.  B.  to  the  U.  S.  in  like  manner  as  Great  Br.  is 
secured  by  our  Constitution  agt.  such  a  Tax  on  our  productions 
exported  to  them,  we  certainly  could  not  be  mistaken  in  our  in- 
terpretation of  the  Treaty,  discovered  from  the  admitted  object 
and  tenor  of  its  provisions,  that  we  shd.  not  be  liable  to  pay  a 
higher  Duty  upon  the  Exportation  to  the  U.  S.  of  their  manufac- 
tures than  was  paid  on  the  Exp.  of  like  commodities  by  other 
nations  :  that  on  this  point  I  would  venture  to  assure  him  there 
could  not  be  a  difference  of  opinion  in  the  U.  S.  ;  that  I  did 
know  that  they  supposed  that  their  custom  was  as  good,  and  they 
believed  better  than  that  of  any  other  nation,  and  that  we  consid- 
ered ourselves  entitled  to  as  favorable  terms  in  our  intercourse  as 
those  enjoyed  by  any  other  nation  ;  that  the  case  of  their  Colo- 
nies did  not  at  all  apply  to  or  illustrate  ours  :  they  might  make 
such  regulations  and  require  such  contributions  from  them  as 
they  shd.  deem  advisable,  but  that  we  had  neither  inclination,  nor 
were  we  in  any  way  bound  to,  stand  on  this  footing  ;  that  in  re- 
spect to  the  Convoys  we  certainly  had  been  obliged  by  that  wh. 


568      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 

had  been  granted,  and  I  understood  the  assurance  of  their  dispo- 
sition to  afford  them  in  future  as  a  proof  of  their  friendship,  but 
that  the  proposed  Tax  was  an  independent  measure  and  moreover 
that  we  might  be  disposed  to  arm  our  Vessels  or  convoy  our  own 
trade,  or,  if  an  open  war  shd.  take  place,  to  enter  into  certain 
arrangements  on  that  subject  in  wh.  we  might  afford  a  naval  force 
proportionate  to  our  means  for  the  common  defence  of  our  com- 
merce. In  such  event,  so  far  as  the  proposed  Tax  is  deemed  a 
compensation  for  convoys  furnished  by  G.  B.,  it  would  cease  to 
operate  ;  that  besides  we  raised  our  revenue  principally  by  a  Tax 
on  Imports  ;  that  we  carried  it  as  high  as  we  found  the  com- 
modities wd.  bear  ;  that  if  we  had  raised  the  Tax  as  high  as  in 
reference  to  the  consumption  it  wd.  bear,  it  was  plain  that  an  im- 
position of  3  pr.  ct.  or  any  other  sum  upon  the  Export  of  the 
Com.  wd.  in  that,  and  indeed  in  somewhat  a  greater  proportion 
increase,  the  price  of  the  Com.,  and  wd.  compel  us  to  reduce  the 
Duty  on  the  Importation  in  the  same  degree. 

If  they  had  the  right,  not  restrained  by  Treaty,  to  impose  this 
Tax,  the  policy  of  exercising  it  when  its  operation  wd.  be  such  as 
I  had  pointed  out  and  wh.  could  not  fail  to  excite  sentiments  not 
altogether  cordial,  wd.  merit  consideration. 

Mr.  Pitt  expressed  his  regret  that  I  supposed  the  measure  wd. 
be  likely  to  be  not  well  received,  restated  some  of  his  former  ob- 
servations, said  that  we  must  be  sensible  of  the  necessity  they 
were  under  of  having  recourse  to  all  the  means  that  were  fairly 
within  their  reach  of  obtaining  supplies  ;  that  the  measure  in 
contemplation  was  a  very  important  one,  and  that  as  he  did  not  see 
how  he  cd.  give  it  up  he  hoped  it  might  not  create  the  difficulty 
that  I  apprehended. 

He  then  observed  that  he  hoped  the  proposed  Tonnage  Duty 
wd.  not  appear  as  exceptionable  as  that  on  Exports  and  proceeded 
to  state  what  it  was.  I  replied  that  as  I  had  before  observed  in 
my  memorial  that  we  were  restrained  from  augmenting  during 
the  war  &  for  2  years  afterwards  the  Duty  now  paid  on  British 
ships  ;  that  the  reciprocity  of  this  restraint  ought  to  exempt  us 
from  any  augmentation  of  the  Tonnage  now  paid  in  the  Brit, 
ports  by  Amer.  ships,  more  especially  considering  the  disparity 
that  now  exists  in  consequence  of  our  paying  the  countervailing 
Tonnage  Duty  in  addition  to  double  Light  money  :  but  if  I  was 


APPENDIX.  569 


answered  here  also  as  in  the  case  of  the  Tax  on  Exports,  that 
there  was  no  restraint  upon  G.  B.  in  the  Treaty  that  prevented 
her  imposing  or  augmenting  the  tonnage  on  Amer.  ships,  I  wd. 
appeal  to  the  first  clause  of  the  XV  Article  thereof  agt.  the  pro- 
posed Duty  on  Amer.  ships,  as  the  proposed  Duty  on  ships  from 
the  U.  S.  is  2/  per  ton,  and  that  on  the  ships  of  Portugal  and 
some  other  European  Powers  is  only  1/  per  ton  and  the  clause  of 
the  Treaty  wh.  I  quoted  entitles  us  to  come  hither  with  our  ships 
on  the  payment  of  the  lowest  Duties  paid  by  any  for.  nation. 

Mr.  Pitt  said  if  such  was  the  Treaty  the  discrimination  must  be 
given  up.  After  some  further  observations  of  a  general  nature  we 
separated,  I  having  observed  to  him  on  parting,  that  the  proposed 
discrimination  on  the  Exports  gave  me  very  much  inquietude,  as 
I  cd.  not  be  mistaken  in  the  light  in  which  it  would  be  seen  and 
considered  in  America. 

June,  1798. 

Observing  that  the  alterations  that  I  had  expected  had  not 
been  made  in  the  Convoy  Bill,  wh.  had  been  the  subject  of  my 
note  to  Lord  Grenville  and  of  the  conference  with  Mr.  Pitt,  I 
wrote  one  or  two  private  notes  to  the  Office  of  For.  Affairs  upon 
the  same  subject,  and  at  the  desire  of  Mr.  Ross  (Mr.  Pitt  continu- 
ing indisposed  and  not  able  to  attend  Parliament)  I  met  him  at 
Hammond's  office.  Our  conversation  was  materially  the  same  as 
that  wh.  I  had  held  with  Mr.  Pitt,  tho'  Mr.  R.  understood  much 
less  of  the  subject  than  Mr.  Pitt. 

I  did  not  perceive  that  the  requisite  alterations  had  afterwards 
been  made,  tho'  it  was  about  to  receive  its  last  reading,  and 
therefore  I  addressed  another  note  to  the  office  of  For.  affairs  ex- 
pressing my  surprize  that  the  amendments  had  not  been  made 
that  from  my  conference  with  Mr.  Pitt  I  had  supposed  wd.  have 
been  adopted.  This  produced  a  request  to  meet  Mr.  Pitt  again, 
wh.  I  did  this  morning  18  June. 

Mr.  Pitt,  without  adverting  to  our  objection  agt.  the  Export 
Duty,  said  he  was  in  hopes  that  I  should  agree  with  him  in  the 
construction  that  seemed  to  him  to  be  the  true  one  to  be  given  to 
the  clause  of  our  Treaty  respecting  the  Tonnage  Duty  wh.  I  had 
supposed  repugnant  to  the  proposed  Duty  that  they  thought  of 
imposing  on  our  vessels  trading  to  and  from  America. 

The  clause  asserts  that  neither  nation  shall  impose  on  the  ships 


570      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

of  the  other  a  higher  Duty  than  is  paid  on  the  like  ships  of  other 
nations — what  was  intended  by  the  like  ships  in  his  understanding, 
is  meant  vessels  of  other  nations  in  the  like  circumstances  ;  that  is 
that  all  vessels  in  the  Amer.  trade  shd.  pay  the  same  Tonnage 
Duty,  and  that  all  in  the  trade  of  Portugal  shd.  pay  the  same  Ton- 
nage Duty,  but  that  as  a  vessel  in  the  Portuguese  trade  was  in 
different  circumstances  from  a  vessel  in  the  Amer.  trade,  the 
Duties  might  be  different ;  all  that  was  required  to  fulfil  the 
Article  being  that  the  ships  of  all  nations  employed  in  a  given 
trade  shd.  be  liable  to  the  same  Duty — tho'  the  Duties  might  vary 
in  different  branches  of  trade  ;  besides  that  this  construction  wd. 
be  found  to  operate  equally  among  new  and  distant  nations  : 
their  object  was  to  lay  a  given  sum  upon  all  vessels  within  a  year. 
But  as  the  near  nations  make  many  &  the  remote  few  voyages 
within  a  year,  in  order  that  each  shd.  annually  pay  the  same  Duty 
per  ton,  the  rate  must  be  less  on  the  ships  of  the  first  and  greater 
on  the  ships  of  the  latter. 

I  replied  that  I  must  admit  that  this  construction  had  the  merit 
of  novelty,  but  that  notwithstanding  I  was  in  hopes  I  shd.  be  able 
to  satisfy  him  that  it  must  give  place  to  one  that  was  rather  more 
obvious  as  well  as  more  correspondent  to  the  views  of  the  parties. 
The  stipulation  is  that  the  goods  and  ships  of  each  shall  be  ad- 
mitted by  the  other  on  the  payment  of  as  small  Duties  as  the  like 
goods  and  ships  of  any  other  nation.  We  don't  find  a  word 
about  the  goods  and  ships  "  in  like  circumstances  "  of  any  other 
nation  :  this  is  an  addition  to  the  text  and  when  added  gives  it 
a  different  signification  from  what  it  bears  without  such  addition. 
The  sentence  is  a  complex  one  and  the  word  like  on  which  he 
relied  was  rather  applicable  to  goods  than  to  ships,  tho'  like  ships 
might  fairly  and  really  must  mean  ships  of  the  same  character 
and  burthen.  In  China  it  seems  they  impose  the  Port  Duty 
according  to  the  number  of  masts  of  a  vessel  and  a  regulation  of 
the  same  sort  formerly  prevailed  in  France,  and  perhaps  else- 
where, without  having  any  reference  to  burthen  or  tonnage. 

Two  objects  were  plainly  in  view  in  respect  to  the  navigation 
of  the  parties,  one  (which  I  have  before  contended  was  defeated 
by  the  opposition  of  any  further  Duty  on  Amer.  ships)  that  in 
respect  to  the  commerce  between  the  U.  S.  and  G.  B.  the 
ships  of  each  shd.  be  liable  to  the  same  Duties ;  the  other  and 


APPENDIX.  571 


the  principal  object  of  the  stipulation  that  the  ships  of  neither 
shd.  pay  a  higher  Duty  than  those  of  any  other  nation — and  this 
latter  object  is  secured  by  the  plain  interpretation  of  the  terms  of 
the  Treaty,  which  says  we  shall  not  pay  for  our  ships  a  higher 
Duty  than  is  paid  on  the  like  ships  of  any  other  nation — by  wh. 
can  only  be  meant  (consistently  with  the  end  of  the  stipulation) 
ships  of  the  like  tonnage  and  burthen  ;  for  if  the  construction 
suggested  by  Mr.  Pitt  is  established,  it  will  be  competent  for 
Cong,  to  impose  a  moderate  Duty  on  ships  trading  between 
France  or  the  French  Colonies  and  the  U.  S.  and  a  heavy  one  on 
the  ships  trading  between  G.  B.  or  her  colonies  &  the  U.  S.,  and 
the  discrimination  may  be  carried  to  a  length,  if  the  Congress  is 
so  disposed,  that  shall  annihilate  the  trade  between  the  U.  S.  and 
G.  B.  Again  if  the  construction  is  true  in  respect  to  ships,  it  is 
likewise  so  in  respect  to  goods,  and  a  higher  Duty  may  be  im- 
posed, on  goods  coming  from  G.  B.  to  the  U.  S.  than  on  the  like 
goods  coming  from  France.  In  short  it  wd.  change  a  general 
Rule  of  great  comprehension  and  wh.  secures  material  points,  to 
a  narrow  Rule  in  the  observance  whereof  the  parties  can  have 
very  little  interest. 

For  it  is  of  comparatively  small  importance  to  G.  B.  whether 
all  nations  are  alike  capable  of  carrying  his  merchandize  to  the 
Amer.  market  on  equally  advantageous  terms,  or  whether  it  is 
confined  to  themselves  and  to  the  Americans  ;  but  it  is  of  great 
consequence  that  their  merchandize  does  not  pay  higher  Duties 
than  those  of  other  countries,  inasmuch  as  by  the  discrimination 
wh.  might  be  established,  the  rival  manufactures,  tho'  themselves 
postponed  to  those  of  G.  B.,  may  be  alone  consumed  in  America  ; 
that  in  a  few  words  as  well  the  object  of  the  stipulation,  as  its 
plain  and  literal  meaning  forbid  a  discrimination  between  the 
goods  and  ships  of  either  and  those  of  every  other  nation.  The 
proposed  Tonnage  Duty  is  a  discrimination  and  therefore  repug- 
nant to  the  stipulation. 

Some  further  but  immaterial  remarks  were  exchanged,  and  the 
conference  ended,  both  Lord  Grenville  and  Mr.  Ross  being 
present,  but  silent,  by  Mr.  Pitt  saying  that  they  wd.  give  the  sub- 
ject a  further  consideration,  when  I  shd.  be  informed  of  the  result. 

At  a  later  date.  P.  S.  The  discrimination  was  given  up  by 
Mr.  Pitt  and  the  Bill  passed  agreeable  to  our  construction. 


5/2      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

Sept.  22.  Mr.  King,  in  reporting  a  conference  with  Lord 
Hawkesbury,  partly  summarized  in  his  letter  to  the  Secre- 
tary of  State,  notes  this  in  his  Memorandum  Book  : 

I  took  occasion  to  speak  of  Louisiana  and  to  intimate  our 
aversion  to  any  change  in  that  quarter  ;  we  disliked  the  reported 
transfer  to  France,  shd.  use  amicable  means  to  prevent  it,  and 
shd.  in  short  be  unwilling  that  Louisiana  shd.  pass  into  the  hands 
of  new  proprietors.  He  said  that  there  could  be  no  doubt  that 
France  had  obtained  a  cession  of  it.  I  asked  if  it  was  likely  that 
means  wd.  be  used  by  Eng.  during  the  war  to  prevent  the  French 
from  taking  possession  of  it,  or,  in  other  words,  whether  England 
had  any  views  of  taking  possession  of  Louisiana.  Ld.  Hawkes- 
bury replied  that  among  other  military  projects  wh.  had  been 
before  them  one,  and  a  well  conceived  one,  for  this  purpose  had 
been  offered  :  if  the  war  went  on  and  the  French  were  expelled 
from  Egypt,  they  shd.  have  an  army,  a  fine  army,  perhaps  the 
best  army  in  the  world,  at  their  disposition  ;  how  they  should 
employ  it  must  depend  on  several  circumstances  and  among 
others  upon  the  situation  of  Portugal.  He  thought  it  absurd  to 
send  there  3  or  4  thousand  men,  who  wd.  not  defend  the  country 
and  must  be  disgraced,  but  the  country  was  in  itself  strong  and 
might  be  defended  by  a  suitable  force.  With  regard  to  foreign 
conquests,  he  had  a  fixed  opinion  that  they  did  not  want  adl. 
colonies — colonies  to  a  certain  extent  were  if  well  governed  use- 
ful, but  if  multiplied  too  much  and  widely  dispersed  it  was  only 
extending  the  points  wh.  they  wd.  be  obliged  to  defend,  and 
weakening  the  Empire.  France,  however,  seemed  at  present  to 
entertain  different  opinions  and  notwithstanding  her  encrease  of 
territory  near  home,  was  never  more  solicitous  to  obtain  distant 
and  numerous  colonies.  At  present  Eng.  had  no  thoughts  of  an 
expedition  to  the  Mississippi  and  they  wd.  adopt  one  at  no  time 
but  with  the  view  of  holding  something  to  give  up  at  Peace. 

Oct.  15,  1798. 

Mr.  Hammond  informed  me  that  the  Portuguese  Minister, 
lately  arrived  and  dismissed  from  Paris,  was  permitted  to  come 
only  when  Azara,  the  Span.  Min.  at  Paris,  assured  the  French 
Govt,  that  the  usual  presents  would  be  given  by  Portugal  on  the 
conclusion  of  a  Treaty. 


APPENDIX.  573 


The  next  memoranda  are  sketches  upon  which  are  based 
the  dispatches  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  relative  to  the  prop- 
ositions for  laying  taxes  on  sugar,  and  more  particularly  to 
the  condition  of  St.  Domingo  and  its  future  as  affecting 
Great  Britain  and  the  United  States. 

Jany  5,  1799. 

Mat.  Montague,  my  neighbor,  in  a  conversation  in  a  walk  in 
H.  Park,  speaking  of  different  public  characters,  concurred  with 
sentiments  that  had  formerly  been  stated  to  me  by  Wilberforce 
respecting  Lord  Grenville  ;  and  alluding  to  the  negotiations  of 
Ld.  Malmesbury  said  that  both  Pitt  and  Dundas  on  that  occasion 
wished  to  have  got  rid  of  Grenville,  between  whom  and  Pitt  a 
real  coolness  took  place  that  lasted  for  some  time. 

Pitt,  he  thought  to  be  in  his  heart  and  principles  a,  good  man  ; 
Dundas  like  all  Scotsmen  was  fond  of  power  and  patronage.  The 
Cabinet  was  a  divided  one  and  Pitt  was  so  imprudent  as  to  say  in 
the  H.  of  Commons  at  the  time  of  the  mutiny  at  the  Nore  that 
the  navy  had  gone  entirely  out  of  his  hands. 

Windham  was  unsteady,  subtile  and  not  of  great  authority. 
Lord  Spencer  was  a  diligent,  able  and  very  honest  man,  much  in- 
fluenced, however,  by  his  Irish  wife,  who  had  great  vivacity  and 
is  extremely  capricious.  She  is  said  to  have  patronized  Nelson 
and  in  that  instance  has  shown  discernment.  The  Chancellor  is 
not  a  reputable  character  ;  he  is  a  pretty  speaker  and  plausible 
orator,  but  he  discredits  his  office  by  frequenting  gaming  houses 
and  being  present  at  other  scenes  unbecoming  the  gravity  of  his 
station.  Speaking  of  the  colonial  system  he  said  it  was  unreason- 
able, unjust  and  must  soon  come  to  an  end.  When  Liverpool 
and  a  few  others  are  gone  it  will  cease  also. 

Jany  6,  1799. 

Sir    Wm.    Poulteney    said    in    conversation  :  Pitt 

is  a  great  man  in  the  H.  of  Commons,  but  he  is  not  a  bold 
man  ;  this  has  been  proved  again  &  again.  When  Grenville 
came  in  he  looked  over  the  Department  and  finding  a  consul 
(Mr.  Baldwin  a  very  clever  man)  at  Cairo  with  a  salary  of 
;£iooo.  a  year  from  Govt,  and  of  ^500  from  the  E.  Ind.  Co,  he 
said  we  have  no  employment  for  a  Consul  at  Cairo  ;  and  contrary 


574      LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

to  the  particular  desire  of  Mr.  Dundas  he  withdrew  the  salary  in 
consequence  of  wh.  Baldwin  returned  home  and  when  Nelson's 
fleet  arrived  at  Alexandria,  there  was  throughout  Egypt  no  Eng. 
Consul  or  agent  who  could  give  the  Admiral  information  or  pro- 
cure him  supplies,  for  the  want  of  which,  instead  of  remaining 
a  while  in  those  seas,  he  was  obliged  to  return  to  Sicily. 

Nelson  was  so  mortified  and  disappointed  that,  when  going  the 
second  time  to  Alexandria,  he  told  his  officers  that  they  must  put 
everything  at  hazard  to  accomplish  something  brilliant  without 
wh.  they  shd.  never  dare  shew  their  faces  in  England.  The  same 
parsimony  prevented  our  having  a  Minister  at  Constantinople. 
Mr.  Liston  left  Smith  Charge  d'affaires,  but  he  was  wholly  unfit  as 
well  in  rank  as  in  other  respects  for  the  place.  Jackson  was 
named  Ambassador  ;  the  practice  has  been  to  pay  ^iooo  Stg. 
and  the  Levant  Company  to  make  the  sum  up  to  jQ . 

The  Company  said  the  Mediterranean  was  completely  in  the 
hands  &  power  of  the  French,  their  trade  at  an  end,  &  therefore 
they  cd.  not  continue  to  support  the  Embassy.  Ld.  Grenville 
wd.  neither  admit  this  excuse  nor  supply  the  deficiency.  No 
Ambassador  was  sent  and  the  Porte  was  left  to  the  control  of  the 
French — who  have  lost  their  game  by  over-confidence  ! 

Jany  16,  1799, 

Lord  Grenville,  in  conversation  held  this  day,  said :  An 
event  has  lately  occurred  at  N.  Yk,  alluding  to  the  death  of 
the  Eng.  Consul,  Sir  J.  Temple,  that  he  could  not  avoid  saying, 
did  not  inspire  regret,  and  then  added  that  several  persons 
had  been  recommended  to  succeed  to  that  office,  and  without 
asking  the  opinion  of  the  Amer.  Minister  he  wd.  beg  me  to  tell 
him  my  opinion  of  Hamilton,  the  present  Br.  Consul  at  Norfolk 
and  Major  Barclay,  formerly  of  N.  Yk.  and  lately  in  the  Commis- 
sion for  the  St.  Croix  Boundary,  between  whom  he  hesitated.  I 
said  I  knew  nothing  of  the  first,  that  I  did  not  remember  to  have 
heard  good  or  ill  of  him  ;  the  reference  then  was  in  favor  of  his 
conduct  where  he  is.  That  I  had  seen  Barclay,  but  personally 
knew  nothing  of  him,  that  he  was  a  very  fair  and  I  had  often 
heard  an  amiable  character.  His  family  were  quite  respectable  in 
N.  Yk,  connected  with  our  best  people,  and   that   among   my 


APPENDIX.  575 


friends  I  recollect  some  who  have  a  great  attachment  to  Maj. 
Barclay.  He  was  what  was  called  a  Loyalist,  but  I  considered 
him  such  from  correct  principles,  and  so  far  as  I  had  information 
wd.  be  as  little  liable  to  objections  on  that  acct.  as  any  one  of 
that  class. 

L.  G.  said  that  they  were  bound  to  say  and  act  upon  the  idea, 
that  the  King  was  right  in  the  controversy,  at  least  so  far  so  as 
not  to  proscribe  from  office  the  whole  class  of  Amer.  Loyalists, 
tho'  it  might  be,  &  was  a  question  of  policy  whether  they  shd.  be 
employed  in  America  ;  that  where  there  were  particular  excep- 
tions to  individual  characters  it  wd.  be  inexpedient  to  name  them, 
and  the  case  of  Arnold  was  instanced  :  but  wThere  such  did  not 
exist  they  in  justice  shd.  confound  the  Amer.  Loyalists  with  the 
mass  of  Br.  Subjects.  His  Lp.  then  said  he  was  glad  I  thought 
of  Barclay  as  I  did,  as  he  felt  rather  a  preference  in  his  favor. 

Jany.  24.  1799. 

The  King  told  me  today  that  he  had  read  the  President's 
Speech  and  that  he  found  it  an  able,  wise  and  excellent  one.  The 
Duke  of  Clarence  afterwards  said  to  me  that  he  could  wish  to  see 
such  a  Speech  in  this  country,  or  in  other  words  that  the  King 
should  say  he  was  willing  to  make  peace  when  the  French  asked 
for  it.  In  the  course  of  conversation  the  King  spoke  of  the  pro- 
posed Union  with  Ireland  and  said  that  the  Speaker  (Foster) 
who  opposed  it,  when  here  a  few  weeks  since,  told  a  Bishop  that 
for  the  Empire  at  large  the  measure  was  a  good  one,  but  as  an 
Irishman  he  could  not  consent  to  it,  and  that  the  Bishop  replied 
that  his  opinion  that  it  wd.  be  for  the  welfare  of  the  whole  con- 
vinced him  that  it  was  his  duty  to  agree  to  it.  The  King  said 
that  a  certain  Marquis  (a  manner  of  speaking  to  describe  the  M. 
of  Lansdowne)  had  lately  said  that  at  present  real  estates  in  Ire- 
land were  worth  but  17  years'  purchase,  while  in  England  they 
were  34  years'  purchase  ;  that  an  Union  wd.  raise  the  Irish  Estates 
in  one  year  to  20  and  very  soon  to  25  years  purchase,  and  such 
an  effect  must  be  beneficial  to  Ireland.  On  its  being  observed 
that  the  Marquis  was  a  calculating  head  the  King  replied,  Yes,  yes, 
he  is  a  calculating  head,  and,  notwithstanding  the  benefit  to 
Ireland,  may  find  out  motives  to  oppose  the  measure. 


576      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 
Conversation  with  Mr.  Montague: 

Jan.  27th.  1799. 

After  speaking  of  the  news  from  Ireland  and  Naples— the 
question  of  Union  carried  only  by  106  agt.  105,  and  the  King  & 
Queen  of  Naples  obliged  to  save  themselves  by  taking  refuge 
aboard  the  Vanguard,  Ad.  Nelson's  ship,  we  fell  into  a  miscel- 
laneous conversation.  Mr.  Montague  said  that  the  Union  must 
be  suspended  for  the  present  in  Ireland,  but  that  the  advantages 
of  it  might  be  examined  and  displayed  in  the  Eng.  Parliament ; 
that  it  was  a  difficult  affair ;  that  it  was  doubtful  how  far  the 
people  of  Ireland  would  be  benefitted  ;  that  originally  (referring 
to  the  views  of  Mr.  Pitt  on  the  subject  about  1791)  Mr.  Pitt  cer- 
tainly had  it  in  contemplation  to  raise  the  Catholics  from  the 
degraded  political  state  in  wh.  they  are  by  giving  them  a  limited 
portion  of  political  power  &  influence  ;  but' that  the  chiefs  of  the 
Protestant  party  opposed  him,  and  those  of  them  who  have  lately 
been  here  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  and  preparing  the  sub- 
ject, each  requiring  in  the  first  instance  an  arrangement  for  him- 
self, his  family  and  dependents,  and  putting  private  entirely  above 
all  public  considerations,  that  it  was  extremely  difficult  to  ascer- 
tain and  measure  the  portion  of  public  benefit  or  general  advantage 
that  wd.  or  cd.  be  secured  for  the  people  of  Ireland. 

Mr.  Montague  agreed  with  what  had  been  stated  to  me  by  Mr. 
Chs.  Abbot  (M.P.),  that  Foster  laid  patriotism  entirely  out  of 
sight  &  acted  from  personal  motives  among  wh.  vanity  is  most 
predominant  ;  that  it  is  customary  under  the  denomination  of 
Improvements  &  other  covers,  to  annually  expend  among  the 
Members  of  the  Irish  Parliament  &  their  connections,  for  the 
purpose  of  preserving  to  the  Crown  a  majority,  two  hundred  thou- 
sand pounds  Sterlg.,  and  that  Foster  had  the  chief  agency  in  this 
distribution  ;  that  this  gave  him  an  influence  and  authority  wh. 
were  highly  flattering  to  his  vanity,  and  in  short  made  him  so 
much  more  important  than  he  could  be  with  anything  that  could 
be  given  him  under  the  Union  ;  that  with  his  sentiments,  it  was 
not  extraordinary  that  he  shd.  oppose  the  Union,  if  he  was  per- 
suaded that  the  opposition  wd.  defeat  it. 

From  this  subject  we  went  to  the  character  of  Mr.  Pitt,  and 
after  observing  that  the  unfortunate  situation  of  Naples  wd.  be 


APPENDIX.  577 


ascribed  to  G.  B.,  who  is  believed  to  have  excited  and  encouraged 
the  King  of  Naples  to  commence  the  war,  I  said  that  I  had  un- 
derstood that  Naples  herself  had  asked  the  aid  of  Engd.,  and 
instead  of  being  encouraged  was  told  by  Eng.  that  without  the  aid 
of  Austria  the  war  wd.  be  eminently  dangerous  to  the  very  exist- 
ence of  the  Kingdom  and  that  finally  after  Naples  had  resolved 
on  the  measure  Eng.  did  no  more  than  to  promise  such  succour 
as  the  fleet  cd.  furnish  &  her  influence  at  Vienna  to  engage  the 
Emperor  ;  that  if  this  was  correct,  it  appeared  to  be  desirable 
that  the  truth  shd.  be  revealed  and  the  character  of  Eng.  rescued 
from  the  imputation  that  wd.  be  ascribed  to  her. 

Mr.  Montague  replied  that  he  entirely  agreed  with  me  in  senti- 
ment, and  added  that  an  omission  of  this  nature  had  early  in  this 
war  happened  that  he  had  always  regretted.  He  said  that  France 
had  circulated  everywhere  the  opinion  that  Eng.  was  actively 
engaged  to  unite  the  surrounding  nations  in  a  war  agt.  France 
previous  to  the  existence  of  the  present  war  between  Eng.  & 
France  ;  that  so  far  from  this  being  true  Eng.  was,  at  the  time  of 
the  declaration  of  war  agt.  Eng.  by  France,  engaged  in  the  most 
active  efforts  to  persuade  the  Emperor,  Russia  and  Spain  to  leave 
France  to  herself  and  to  avoid  with  the  utmost  scruples  all  manner 
of  interference  with  the  projects  of  reform,  and  that  Mr.  Pitt  had 
resolved  after  war  commenced  to  have  stated  this  fact  in  Parlia- 
ment, but  was  prevented  by  indisposition  from  attending  Parlia- 
ment at  the  debate  when  he  had  determined  to  mention  it.  A 
former  conversation  with  Mr.  Wilberforce  confirms  this  state- 
ment. 

I  observed  that  with  all  Mr.  Pitt's  wonderful  talents,  there  was 
an  opinion  that  even  after  great  consideration  and  an  opinion 
honestly  and  ably  formed,  he  on  several  occasions  had  wanted 
firmness  to  adhere  to  it. 

Mr.  M.  said  Pitt  does  want  firmness  and  Dundas  is  able  to 
shake  opinions  notwithstanding  his  superiority  in  capaciousness 
of  mind  over  his  colleague.  Mr.  Pitt  has  no  religion,  but  is  a  vir- 
tuous man.  He  is  ambitious  of  the  fame  of  great  measures  but 
careless  and  indifferent  to  reputation  obtained  by  small  means. 
He  is  proud  of  the  credit  of  the  Sinking  Fund,  wh.  he  wishes  to 
be  believed  the  author  of,  tho'  the  principles,  on  wh.  it  rests,  were 
all  taken  from  Price  ;  he  claims  with  ostentation  the  reputation  of 

VOL.  III. — 37 


578      LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE   OF  RUFUS  KING. 


having  originated  the  thought,  and  even  of  having  digested  the 
Plan,  called  the  Consolidating  Act,  bringing  into  one  law  the 
various  Regulations  of  the  Customs  ;  when  in  truth  the  idea  is  an 
old  one  and  the  materials  were  collected  and  arranged  by  Erving. 
Pitt  is  disinterested  but  haughty  &  overbearing.  His  friends,  ex- 
cept in  mere  affairs  of  badinage,  must  receive  and  submit  to  his 
opinions  ;  he  does  not  bear  opposition  and  affects,  or  rather  feels, 
an  uneasiness  when  any  one  reasons  with  him. 

His  earliest  political  friend  was  my  brother,  said  Mr.  Mon- 
tague ;  he  was  intimate  with  him  at  the  period  of  the  Amer. 
peace  and  from  him  I  heard  that  the  Marquis  of  Lansdowne 
refused  to  bribe  to  obtain  the  approbation  of  the  H.  of  Corns,  to 
the  Amer.  Treaty  ;  overtures  were  made  but  refused.  Next  to 
my  brother  came  Lord  Bathurst,  who  is  a  man  of  humour  and 
disposed  to  quiping  wh.  when  applied  to  others  Pitt  is  fond  of ; 
to  him  succeeded  Lord  Mornington,  who  is  a  man  of  first  rate 
talents,  tho'  of  a  ruined  constitution.  Then  followed  Rider  and 
to  him  succeeded  Canning  who  is  a  man  of  taste  as  a  scholar,  tho' 
too  metaphorical  as  an  Orator. 

Erving,  said  Mr.  Montague  is  vain,  conceited,  very  able  in  the 
statements  he  makes,  but  a  Tory  and  devoted  Royalist. 

Feb.  12,  1799. 

I  met  the  Marq.  of  Lansdowne  at  dinner  at  Mr.  Nopes  (Cav' 
Sqr.).  In  the  course  of  a  miscellaneous  conversation,  speaking  of 
the  conclusion  of  the  Amer.  peace  he  said  he  had  the  greatest 
difficulties  at  every  step  and  particularly  in  respect  to  the  Bound- 
aries ;  that  in  a  cabinet  on  that  head  he  was  quite  exhausted 
with  efforts  to  produce  an  agreement  in  any  demarcation  what- 
ever ;  that  at  last  the  Duke  of  Richmond  said  to  him  if  you  will 
suffer  me  to  oppose  it  after  I  have  traced  the  Boundary,  I  will  do  it 
at  once.  I  replied,  said  the  Marquis,  with  all  my  heart,  give  us  a 
Boundary  and  act  afterwards  as  you  please.  The  Duke  imme- 
diately gave  us  the  present  Boundary  &  the  Cabinet  agreed. 
Genl.  Howe  went  to  the  Chesapeake  instead  of  up  the  Hudson 
River  from  a  blunder  in  the  clerks  who  had  not  prepared  a  paper 
for  the  signature  of  Ld.  Geo.  Germaine,  Genl.  Howe's  instruc- 
tions.    The  Packet  carried  out  Burgoyne's  and  left  Howe's. 


APPENDIX.  579 


April,  1799. 

On  my  first  going  to  Court  after  the  news  that  the  Pr.  had 
resolved  on  another  mission  to  France,  I  took  with  me  the  col- 
umns of  a  Boston  newspaper,  just  received  as  I  was  going  into 
my  carriage,  containing  the  Prest's.  2  message  to  the  Senate  on 
that  subject.  The  King  alluded  to  the  negotiation.  I  said  we  had 
just  reed,  a  newspaper,  containing  the  messages  of  the  Pr.,  and 
that  I  wd.  put  it  into  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  waiting  who  wd. 
give  it  to  him.  The  King  thanked  me  and  added  that  he  had 
some  notion  that  the  nomination  was  a  finesse  on  the  part  of  the 
Pr.  I  replied  that  I  did  not  know  the  particular  facts  upon  wh. 
the  measure  was  founded,  but  that  I  inferred  with  much  confi- 
dence from  the  Pr.'s  character  that  the  nomination  was  bona  fide. 

In  a  subsequent  conversation  on  a  different  day  the  King  said 
he  hoped  we  shd.  not  be  deceived  and  wished  that  our  mission 
might  not  end  like  the  last  attempt  of  Portugal. 

May  2nd. 

At  a  dinner  at  Lord  Grenville's — Lord  Auckland's  and  my 
family — Mr.  King  writes  that  after  the  Ladies  retired  a  general 
conversation  on  politics  ensued.     It  was  said  : 

The  affairs  of  Engd.  are  most  prosperous.  Ld  Auckland  never 
felt  uneasy  except  at  the  time  of  the  mutiny.  Ld.  G.  said  that 
was  a  serious  moment,  but  the  stoppage  of  the  Bank  much  more 
so.  The  augmentation  of  the  Army  pay  was  a  measure  of  great 
risque  ;  it  was  clamoured  for  and  yielded,  a  policy  always  doubt- 
ful and  in  that  instance  perilous.  An  anecdote  of  Mr.  Pitt  at 
that  moment  is  curious  and  is  at  the  same  time  an  extraordinary 
proof  of  his  firmness  and  perspicacity.  The  symptoms  of  discon- 
tent in  the  army  were  many  and  particularly  in  the  Woolwich 
Corps  of  Artillery.  Ld.  Cornwallis,  then  Colonel,  had  been  sent 
to  soothe  them  and  some  very  criminal  behaviour  had  been 
slurred  over.  In  this  state  of  affairs,  the  mutiny  at  the  Nore  at 
its  height,  a  general  officer  of  great  name  and  rank  at  two  o'clock 
in  the  morning  arrived  express  from  Woolwich  at  Mr.  Pitt's 
house,  demanded  to  be  admitted  and  immediately  conducted  to 
the  Minister  :  he  was  carried  to  Mr.  Pitt's  room  who  was  in  bed. 
With  all  the  appearance  of  concern  that  belongs  to  the  occasion 


580     LIFE  AND   CORRESPONDENCE  OF  RUFUS  KING. 

he  told  the  Minister  that  he  had  come  with  the  greatest  expedi- 
tion from  Woolwich,  that  the  state  of  the  troops  was  such  that 
unless  a  sufficient  body  of  forces  was  immediately  marched  to 
check  the  revolt,  the  artillery  would  themselves  march  to  London 
with  their  cannon  to  demand  a  redress  of  what  they  considered 
their  grievances. 

Mr.  Pitt,  without  anything  in  the  General's  character  to  justify 
the  suspicion,  immediately  concluded  from  the  story  and  manner 
in  wh.  it  was  related  that  the  General  was  deranged  and  accord- 
ingly thanked  him  for  his  zeal  and  fidelity,  desired  him  to  be 
again  with  him  at  9  o'clock  and  went  quietly  to  'sleep.  In  the 
morning  he  sent  for  Ld.  G.  and  one  or  two  others  who  were 
present  at  9  o'clock,  and  upon  the  reappearance  of  the  General 
they  found  Mr.  Pitt's  conclusion  to  have  been  well  founded. 

The  notes  for  the  remainder  of  the  year  1799  contain 
chiefly  the  drafts  of  conversations  with  Lord  Grenville 
on  the  Treaty  with  St.  Domingo  and  on  the  suspension 
of  the  Commission  at  Philadelphia  under  the  6th  Article 
of  the  Treaty  of  Peace.  But  they  are  fully  reported  to  the 
Secretary  of  State  in  Mr.  King's  official  correspondence. 


£- 


