xxxiv Illustrations Philadelphia by Pierre Eugene Du Simiti&re, probably in 1779. The authorized engravings of Du Simiti£re’s set of 13 profiles were done by Benoit Louis Prdvost, whose prints were pirated by the British. Engraving by “B.B.E.” in Portraits of the Generals, Ministers, Mag istrates, Members of Congress, and Others, Who Have Rendered Themselves Illustrious in the Revolution of the United States of North America (London: R. Wilkinson, 1783). Samuel Adams 73 Samuel Adams was widely regarded as one of the chief architects of American resistance to British authority, a view reflected in General Gage’s proclamation of June 12, 1775, exempting Adams from the offer of pardon extended to Americans in rebellion, and supported by the evidence of his extensive correspondence with Massachusetts offi cials while he was in Philadelphia. Painting by John Singleton Copley, 1770-72. Courtesy, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Secretary Thomson’s Journal of Congress 114-15 Charles Thomson’s entry in the manuscript journal of Congress for Wednesday and Thursday, September 28-29, 1774, is one of the few contemporary documents bearing upon the treatment accorded Jo seph Galloway's Plan of Union when it was introduced and debated on September 28. The deleted passage—reading “Wednesday. Here in sert Mr. Galloway’s motion 8c plan”—was clearly inserted sometime after September 30, probably as a copyist’s instruction, and was never an integral part of the minutes of the proceedings. The belief that Congress subsequently took punitive action to delete an entry per taining to Galloway’s plan—“so that no vestige of it might appear there,” as Galloway later claimed—proceeds from a misunderstanding about the nature of Thomson’s original entry and the manner in which he maintained his manuscript journal. (See pp. 112-17.) From the Papers of the Continental Congress, National Archives and Records Service. John Dickinson’s Draft Heads of Grievances and Rights 195 Page 5 from a draft of the document known as the Declaration of Rights and Grievances that was adopted on October 14, 1774. Once thought to be “the first draft of the sub-committee’s report on viola tions of rights” and printed as John Sullivan’s draft declaration in JCC, 1:63-71, this manuscript is in the hand of John Dickinson. The fact that Dickinson was not elected to Congress until October 15 only
