Illustrations xxxv deepens the mystery surrounding his role in the composition of this important state document. (See pp. 193-94.) From the Adams Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society. John Dickinson’s Draft Memorial to the Inhabitants 218-19 of the Colonies Pages 4 and 8 of a draft of the Memorial to the Inhabitants of the Colonies, in the hand of John Dickinson. Although Richard Henry Lee has traditionally been considered the author of this memorial, the extensive revisions, interlined passages, and marginalia contained in this manuscript leave no doubt as to Dickinson’s authorship. (See pp. 217-21.) From the R. R. Logan Collection, Historical Society of Pennsyl vania. Samuel Ward 272 Ward, who had served three terms as governor of Rhode Island before being elected a delegate to the Congress, was esteemed by his colleagues as “an honourable, a conscientious, a benevolent and in flexible Patriot.” He remains of special interest to the student of the early history of Congress because of his diary and extensive corre spondence. These papers span the year and a half from the convening of the First Congress in September 1774 to his death from smallpox in Philadelphia in March 1776. Photograph courtesy of the Rhode Island Historical Society. Thomas Johnson 274 Johnson, whose political friends represented a broad segment of leaders both inside and outside Maryland, worked actively to main tain communications among delegates during the period between the First and Second Congresses. When a Continental Army was created in June 1775, he placed the name of his friend Washington in nomi nation for the position of commander in chief. Johnson’s election in February 1777 as the state of Maryland’s first governor under the new constitution that replaced proprietary government subsequently demonstrated the strength of his influence and appeal. Etching by Albert Rosenthal (Philadelphia, 1890). Probably based on a Charles Willson Peale painting (1772), now in a private collec tion, of Johnson with his family. Lyman Hall 329 Dr. Lyman Hall appeared before Congress on May 13, 1775, and was admitted as a nonvoting delegate “from the parish of St. John’s,
