XXXVI Illustrations in the colony of Georgia,” although Georgia was not officially repre sented until a full delegation arrived in Philadelphia that September. Wood engraving in William Hunt, American Biographical Pano rama (Albany: Printed by J. Munsell, 1849). John Dickinson 389 Dickinson, the Pennsylvania Farmer, widely celebrated for his learning and the power of his pen, played a dominant role during the closing days of the First Continental Congress but gradually lost in fluence in 1775 as he became increasingly identified as an advocate of moderate measures and reconciliation with Britain. Engraving by B. L. Prevost, 1781, based on a drawing by Pierre Eugene Du Simiti&re. James Duane 393 New York delegate James Duane was a leading conservative spokes man for conciliatory measures. The notes he kept on several key de bates have survived to provide important information, unavailable in other documents, on a number of significant developments in Con gress. Painting by John Trumbull, 1805. Courtesy of the Art Commission, City of New York. John Sullivan 538 Four delegates—Thomas Mifflin, Philip Schuyler, John Sullivan, and George Washington—immediately accepted military commissions upon the creation of the Continental Army in June 1775. Sullivan left Philadelphia on June 27 for the American camp in Massachu setts, and John Langdon thus became New Hampshire’s sole repre sentative in Congress until the arrival of Josiah Bartlett in Septem ber. Sullivan later returned to Congress to serve another term in 1780-81. Engraving in Christoph Heinrich Korn, Geschichte der Kriege in und ausser Europa (Nurnberg: G. N. Raspe, 1776-84), based on an engraving by C. Corbutt, London. Joseph Hewes 577 A North Carolina merchant and political moderate, Hewes long hoped for a reconciliation between Britain and the colonies. He fre quently used his position in Philadelphia to promote internal unity among North Carolinians, who because of their comparative remote ness from the chief scenes of the war were thought to be poorly in-
