4 August 29, 1774 larly. One was Dr. Smith the Provost of the Coiledge, who is looking up to Government for an American Episcopate and a Pair of lawn Sleeves. Soft, polite, insinuating, adulating, sensible, learned, indus trious, indefatigable, he has had Art enough and Refinement upon Art to make Impressions even on Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Reed. 1774. Aug. 30. Tuesday. Walked a little about Town. Visited the Markett, the State house, the Carpenters Hall where the Congress is to Sit, 3 &c.—then call’d at Mr. Mifflins—a grand, spacious, and ele gant House. Here We had much Conversation with Mr. Charles Thompson [Thomson], who is it seems about marrying a Lady a Relation of Mr. Dickensons with 5000£. st[erling]. This Charles Thompson is the Sam. Adams of Phyladelphia—the Life of the Cause of Liberty, they say. A Friend Collins came to see us and invited us to dine on Thurs day. We returned to our Lodgings and Mr. Lynch, Mr. Gadsden, Mr. Middleton, and young Mr. Rutledge came to visit us. Mr. Linch in troduced Mr. Middleton to us. Mr. Middleton was silent and re served, young Rutledge was high enough. A Promise of the King was mentioned. He started, “I should have no Regard to his Word. His Promises are not worth any Thing,” fee. This is a young, smart, spir ited Body. Mr. Blair came to visit us, with another Gentleman. Mr. Smith, an old Gentleman, was introduced to us, by his Son. Another Mr. Smith came in with our Mr. Paine. The Regularity and Elegance of this City are very striking. It is situated upon a Neck of Land, about two Miles wide between the River De la ware and the River Schuilkill. The Streets are all exactly straight and parrallell to the River. Front Street is near the River, then 2 street, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, Sth, 9th. The cross Streets which intersect these are all equally wide, straight and parallell to each oth er, and are named from forrest and fruit Trees, Pear Street, Apple Street, Walnut street, Chestnut Street, fee. Towards the Evening, Mr. Thomas Smith, son of the old Gentle man who made us a Visit who is a Brother of Mr. Smith the Minister of Casco Bay, and Dr. Shippen and his Brother and Mr. Reed, went with Us to the Hospital. We saw, in the lower Rooms under Ground, the Cells of the Lunaticks, a Number of them, some furious, some merry, some Melancholly, and among the rest John Ingham, whom I once saved at Taunton Court from being whipped and sold for Horse stealing. We then went into the Sick Rooms which are very long, large Walks with rows of Beds on each side, and the lame and sick upon them—a dreadfull Scene of human Wretchedness. The Weak ness and Languor, the Distress and Misery, of these Objects is truely a Woefull Sight.
