6 August 29, 1774 1774 Septr. 1. Thursday. This Day, We breakfasted at Mr. Mif flins, Mr. C. Thompson came in, and soon after Dr. Smith. The fa mous Dr. Smith, the Provost of the Coiledge. He appears a plain Man—tall, and rather Aukward—there is an Appearance of Art. We then went to return Visits to the Gentlemen who had visited us. We visited a Mr. Cadwallader a Gentleman of large Fortune, a grand and elegant House And Furniture. We then visited Mr. Pow ell, another splendid Seat. We then visited the Gentlemen from S. Carolina and about twelve were introduced to Mr. Galloway, the Speaker of the House in Pensylvania. He looks like Ben. Davis the Sandimanian. We dined at Friend Collins’s—Stephen Collins’s—with Govr. Hopkins, Govr. Ward, Mr. Galloway, Mr. Rhoades, &c. In the Evening all the Gentlemen of the Congress who were ar rived in Town, met at Smiths the new City Tavern and spent the Evening together. 25 Members were come. Virginia, N. Carolina, Maryland, and the City of N. York were not arrived. Mr. William Livingston from the Jerseys, lately of New York, was there. He is a plain Man, tall, black, wears his Hair—nothing elegant or genteel about him. They say he is no public Speaker, but very sen sible, and learned, and a ready Writer. Mr. Rutledge the Elder, was there, but his Appearance is not very promising. There is no Keenness in his Eye. No Depth in his Counte nance. Nothing of the profound, sagacious, brilliant, or sparkling in his first Appearance. Yesterday We removed our Lodgings to the House of Miss Jane Port, in Arch Street, about half Way between Front Street and Sec ond Street. I find that there is a Tribe of People here, exactly like the Tribe in the Massachusetts, of Hutchinsonian Addressers. There is indeed a Sett in every Colony. We have seen the Revolutions of their Senti ments. Their Opinions have undergone as many Changes as the Moon. At the Time of the Stamp Act, and just before it, they pro fessed to be against the Parliamentary Claim of Right to tax Ameri cans, to be Friends to our Constitutions, our Charter &c. Bernard was privately, secretly endeavouring to procure an Alteration of our Charter. But he concealed his Designs untill his Letters were detect ed. Hutchinson professed to be a stanch Friend to Liberty, and to our Charter, untill his Letters were detected—a great Number of good People thought him a good Man, and a Sincere Friend to the Congregational Interest in Religion and to our Charter Priviledges. They went on with this machiavilian Dissimulation, untill those Let ters were detected—after that they waited untill the Boston Port Bill was passed, and then, thinking the People must submit immediately and that Lord North would carry his whole System triumphantly,
