10 August 29, 1774 Then Mr. Lynch proposed that Mr. Charles Thompson a Gentle man of Family, Fortune, and Character in this City should be ap pointed Secretary, which was accordingly done without opposition, tho Mr. Duane and Mr. Jay discovered at first an Inclination to seek further. 8 Mr. Duane then moved that a Committee should be appointed, to prepare Regulations for this Congress. Several Gentlemen objected. I then arose and asked Leave of the President to request of the Gentle man from New York, an Explanation, and that he would point out some particular Regulations which he had in his Mind. He men tioned particularly the Method of voting—whether it should be by Colonies, or by the Poll, or by Interests. Mr. Henry then arose, and said this was the first general Congress which had ever happened—that no former Congress could be a Pre cedent—that We should have occasion for more general Congresses, and therefore that a precedent ought to be established now. That it would be great Injustice, if a little Colony should have the same Weight in the Councils of America, as a great one, and therefore he was for a Committee. Major Sullivan observed that a little Colony had its All at Stake as well as a great one. This is a Question of great Importance. If We vote by Colonies, this Method will be liable to great Inequality and Injustice, for 5 small Colonies, with 100,000 People in each may outvote 4 large ones, each of which has 500,000 Inhabitants. If We vote by the Poll, some Colonies have more than their Proportion of Members, and others have less. If We vote by Interests, it will be attended with in superable Difficulties, to ascertain the true Importance of each Colo ny. Is the Weight of a Colony to be ascertained by the Number of In habitants merely—or by the Amount of their Trade, the Quantity of their Exports and Imports, or by any compound Ratio of both. This will lead us into such a Field of Controversy as will greatly perplex us. Besides I question whether it is possible to ascertain, at this Time, the Numbers of our People or the Value of our Trade. It will not do in such a Case, to take each other’s Words. It ought to be ascertained by authentic Evidence, from Records.® MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:114-24. 1 Samuel Adams, Thomas Cushing, and Robert Treat Paine were traveling with Adams. James Bowdoin, the other Massachusetts delegate, chose not to go to Philadelphia because of his wife’s illness. Boston-Gazette, and Country Journal, August 15, 1774. ’ Benjamin Rush, whose meeting with Adams at this time inaugurated a lifelong friendship. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:115n. ’Adams apparently thought that a decision on the site for Congress' meeting had already been reached, although according to Silas Deane the issue continued to be debated among delegates meeting informally during the early days of Septem-
