12 August 29, 1774 ber. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane, August 31-September 5, 1774. 4 This apocryphal story acquired greater currency with the passage of time, and years later Adams elaborated on the incident in his autobiography. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:307-8. See also Thomas Lynch to Ralph Izard, October 26, 1774; and Freeman, Washington, 3:377. B William Lee (1739-95), who was elected sheriff in 1773. DAB. • Samuel Ward calls this the “New Tavern” and James Duane refers to it as "Smith’s Tavern." It stood on the west side of Second Street between Walnut and Chestnut Streets. Robert E. Graham, “The Taverns of Colonial Philadelphia,” Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, n.s. 43 (1953) : 322. 7 For comments on the selection of Carpenters’ Hall as the site for Congress rather than the Pennsylvania State House, which was offered by Speaker Joseph Galloway, see Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane, August 30-September 5; James Duane’s Notes of Debates, September 5; and Joseph Galloway to William Franklin, September 5, 1774. More information on Carpenters’ Hall can be found in Charles E. Peterson, “Carpenters’ Hall,” Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, n.s. 43 (1953): 96-128. ’James Duane recorded that a “member of the Congress was willing to accept the office,” and Silas Deane apparently thought that the choice might have fallen on him. See Duane’s Notes of Debates, September 5, 1774, and Deane’s letter to Mrs. Deane of the same date. An anonymous account published after Thomson’s death but purporting to be Thomson’s version of the circumstances surrounding his appointment contends that Thomson was surprised when he was called to Carpenters’ Hall. It seems unlikely, however, that a subject of such importance would not have been discussed during the many preliminary meetings held among delegates before September 5 or that Thomson would have been unaware of the topic. The frequently quoted account is reported as though in Thomson’s own words: “I was married to my second wife, on a Thursday; on the next Monday, I came to town to pay my respects to my wife’s aunt, and the family; just as I alighted in Chestnut street, the doorkeeper of congress (then first met,) accosted me with a message from them, requesting my presence. Surprised at this, and not able to divine why I was wanted, I however bade my servant put up the horses, and followed the messenger myself, to the Carpenter’s Hall, and entered congress, —here was indeed an august assemblyl and deep thought and solemn anxiety were observable on their countenances! I walked up the aisle, and standing opposite the President, I bowed, and told him I awaited his pleasure. He replied, ‘Congress desire the favour of you, Sir, to take their Minutes.’ I bowed in acquiescence, and took my seat at the desk. . . . With respect to the taking the Minutes: what congress adopted, I committed to writing; with what they rejected, I had nothing farther to do; and even this method led to some squabbles with the members, who were desirious of having their speeches and resolutions, however put to rest by the majority, still preserved upon the Minutes.” American Quarterly Review 1 (March 1827): 30-31. “This last paragraph represents Adams’ own thoughts on the subject of voting in Congress. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [August 29-September 5, 1774] [August] 29. Set out early & rode thro Trenton to the Ferry. 12 a.m. Breakfasted at Williams Tavern. Cross’d the Ferry over Dela ware &: rode to Bristol 8 miles, thence to Red Lyon Tavern 7 miles &
