20 August 31, 1774 should meet with the best Sermon, We determined to pay Our first Devotions) he led the right Contrary way. Passing Two or three Streets he began to suspect his Error, but on inquiring for Mr. Sprouts, the honest Man asked, if it were The Presbyterian, & then told Us we were right. On This, on We went, Two or three Streets more untill inquiry was in vain, for We had got beyond the Knowl edge either of Mr. Sprout, or his Meeting. The Col. fretted, & I laugh’d at him though vexed enough I confess, to find Ourselves thus foolishly swamp’d, when had we accompanied Our Fellow Lodgers, We might have gone to hear either Mr. DeJay [Duchd], or Mr. Coombs, both eminent Men. At length coming to the South West Ex tremity of the City I proposed to the Col. that We would get a Cryer to look Out Our Meeting for Us, or else go forward to The Bettering House, then in View, or fall into the Church before Us, which from the appearance of the People entering I judged to be high Dutch, & of course could expect Nothing but to be diverted with something New in a strange Language. In We went, The House was unfinished and the People appeared poor, but they civilly shewed Us to a Seat, when to Our agreeable disappointment We were entertained by as agreeable, instructive, 8c elegantly pathetic a preacher as I have al most ever heard in my Life. He gave Us a discourse of about 50 Minutes without Notes, yet extremely correct, 8c in a fine Stile. Per haps the accidental falling upon him, 8c his being a Warm Son of Lib erty both in prayer, 8c Sermon prejudiced Us in his favor, but I do not expect to hear a better Sermon Soon. It seems they are a set of honest plain Dissenters, who to the Shame of the other dissenting Congregations, 8c their Clergy have rather been despised and perse cuted because they insisted on the right of choosing their own Minis ter, 8c chose this Gentleman from a distance. Neither of which Cir cumstances, prejudiced Me against Them, 8c I design to hear him again, before I leave the City. This Afternoon We found Mr. Sprouts Meeting, and heard old President Witherspoon. The Evening spent at Mr. Thos. Wharton’s who was extremely civil, 8c complaisant and insisted on Our using his Horses 8c Carriage while in Town, or rather his Convenience, which is the Name of a Freinds or Quaker’s Coach. This he was the more urgent in as he was he said Determined to con vince Me before I left the City that they had Lands superior to Ours. Monday Septemr. 5th. The Congress formed, by choosing The Honl. P. Randolph Esqr. of Virginia President, 8c Charles Thomp son, Esqr of this City Secretary, 8c fix'd on Carpenters Hall for the place To meet in. This proceeding, is highly agreeable to the Me chanics, 8c Citizens in general, but mortifying to the last Degree To Mr. Galloway and his Party, Thompson being his Sworn opposite as You may say, 8c by his means, prevented being one of the Congress, for this province. It was a matter of dispute whither We should
