24 September 3, 1774 on, and endeavour to find out the Temper of the Delegates. Near two Thirds of them are arrived, and I conclude all will be ready to pro ceed on Business on Monday. I have not had any great Opportunity of sounding them. But so far as I have, I think they will behave with Temper and Moderation. The Boston Commissioners are warm, and I believe wish for a Non-importation Agreement, and hope that the Colonies will advise and justify them in a Refusal to pay for the Tea until their Aggrievances are redressed. They are in their Behaviour and Conversation very modest, and yet they are not so much so as not to throw out Hints, which, like Straws and Feathers, tell us from which Point of the Compass the Wind comes. I dined with them on Thursday. I have had two Opportunities, one with the elder Rutlidge of Car olina, whose Sentiments and mine differ in no one Particular so far as I explained myself—and I was reserved in no Point save that of a Representation in Parliament. He is a Gentleman of an amiable Character—has look’d into the Arguments on both Sides more fully than any I have met with, and seems to be aware of all the Conse quences which may attend rash and imprudent Measures. His young er Brother is rather warm. My other Opportunity was with the two New Hampshire Gentlemen. I found Col. Folsom very cool & moder ate—Major Sullivan rather more warm, but very candid and has thought solidly on the Subject. I think neither of them intends to at tach himself more to the particular Cause of Boston than will be for the general Good. They requested Opportunities of exchanging Senti ments with me often on the Occasion—and all my Observations seemed to have full Weight with them. The Marylanders are not ar rived, and but Three of the Virginians, Peyton [Randolph], Bland, and Lee are arrived. 1 I have intimated to several of the Delegates the Necessity of send ing Commissioners over, fully authorized, to the British Court, as a Mode pursued by the Roman, Grecian 8c Macedonian Colonies on every Occasion of the like Nature—that thro’ them we may be ena bled, in case our first Plan for accommodating our unhappy Differ ences should not be acceptable, to know the better what to propose next—that having these Gentlemen at the Scene of Action we shall be no longer misled by News-paper Accounts and private Letters, but shall proceed on solid Information and Principles of Safety— That without this, any Petitions or Plans, not having any Persons to explain and support them, will have very little Effect—That in all Probability the Measures of the present Congress will be deemed ille gal 8c unconstitutional, and that upon this Point only the Necessity of sending Persons Home to insist upon the Right in the Colonies of being heard, and to prove that the Illegality of the Congress arises from the Measures of Power in not suffering the Assemblies to meet;
