28 September 6, 1774 present State of Things shew that Government is dissolved. Where are your Land Marks? your Boundaries of Colonies. We are in a State of Nature, Sir. I did propose that a Scale should be laid down. That Part of N. America which was once Mass. Bay, and that Part which was once Virginia, ought to be considered as having a Weight. Will not People complain, 10,000 (People) Virgin ians have not outweighed 1000 others. I will submit however. I am determined to submit if I am over ruled. A worthy Gentleman (Ego) near me, seemed to admit the Necess ity of obtaining a more Adequate Representation. I hope future Ages will quote our Proceedings with Applause. It is one of the great Duties of the democratical Part of the Constitution to keep itself pure. It is known in my Province, that some other Colonies are not so numerous or rich as they are. I am for giving all the Satisfaction in my Power. The Distinctions between Virginians, Pensylvanians, New Yorkers and New Englanders, are no more. I am not a Virginian, but an American. Slaves are to be thrown out of the Question, and if the freemen can be represented according to their Numbers I am satisfyed. Mr. Lynch. I differ in one Point from the Gentleman from Virgin ia, that is in thinking that Numbers only ought to determine the Weight of Colonies. I think that Property ought to be considered, and that it ought to be a compound of Numbers and Property, that should determine the Weight of the Colonies. I think it cannot be now settled. Mr. Rutledge. We have no legal Authority and Obedience to our Determinations will only follow the reasonableness, the apparent Utility, and Necessity of the Measures We adopt. We have no coer cive or legislative Authority. Our Constitutents are bound only in Honour, to observe our Determinations.. Govr. Ward. There are a great Number of Counties in Virginia, very unequal in Point of Wealth and Numbers, yet each has a Right to send 2 Members. Mr. Lee. But one Reason, which prevails with me, and that is that we are not at this Time provided with proper Materials. I am afraid We are not. Mr. Gadsden. I cant see any Way of voting but by Colonies. Coll. Bland. I agree with the Gentleman (Ego) who spoke near me, that We are not at present provided with Materials to ascertain the Importance of each Colony. The Question is whether the Rights and Liberties of America shall be contended for, or given up to arbi trary Power. Mr. Pendleton. If the Committee should find themselves unable to
