September 6, 1774 29 ascertain the Weight of the Colonies, by their Numbers and Property, they will report this, and this will lay the Foundation for the Con gress to take some other Steps to procure Evidence of Numbers and Property at some future Time. Mr. Henry. I agree that authentic Accounts cannot be had—if by Authenticity is meant, attestations of officers of the Crown. I go upon the Supposition, that Government is at an End. All Dis tinctions are thrown down. All America is all thrown into one Mass. We must aim at the Minutiae of Rectitude. Mr. Jay. Could I suppose, that We came to frame an American Constitution, instead of indeavouring to correct the faults in an old one—I cant yet think that all Government is at an End. The Meas ure of arbitrary Power is not full, and I think it must run over, before We undertake to frame a new Constitution. To the Virtue, Spirit, and Abilities of Virginia We owe much—I should always therefore from Inclination as well as Justice, be for giving Virginia its full Weight. I am not clear that We ought not to be bound by a Majority tho ever so small, but I only mentioned it, as a Matter of Danger, worthy of Consideration. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:124-26. 1 These notes were made by John Adams on loose sheets of paper and left undated. The date for this entry was determined by comparing the content with James Duane’s Notes of Debates, September 6, 1774. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane [September 6, 1774] I told You I should begin another Sheet but had no conception of doing it on so disagreeable an Occasion as that of the Intelligince reed., of the Situation of Boston. Of this I can say nothing more than that this City is in the utmost Confusion, all The Bells toll muffled, &: the most unfeigned marks of sorrow appear in every Countenance. The Congress sat untill after Three, & then Adjd. but untill Five, but Our proceedings, for Various Reasons, will be kept Secret, so on that head shall say Nothing, until We break up, for though We may pub lish to the World the whole, it is improper to do it prematurely. You may tell Our Freinds that I never met, nor scarcely had an Idea of Meeting With Men of such firmness, sensibility, Spirit, and Thorough Knowledge of the Interests of America, as the Gentlemen from the Southern provinces appear to be. In this I do not speak from preju dice, but from the knowledge I have of them in their public as well as their private Conversation, both of which I attend to with a pleasure, that ballances many, if not more than all the anxieties, & Troubles of
