30 September 6, 1774 such a Journey. May New England go hand in hand with them & We need not fear a want of Spirit. I intended to have entertained You with a breif Sketch of their Character & Appearance but this is the 19th page of my Letter, must therefore conclude, 8c reserve the rest for a future Opportunity, but of the Transactions of the Congress you will have no Intelligence, to be relied on, Untill We publish. Jos. Webb told me he sent the Massachusetts Spy which I did not receive. Tell or write Your Hond. Father that the Report in his Case will be the same, as before, of which I give him joy. I will not begin a 20th page. Read or shew this at Discretion, remember Me to all. Capt. Hubbard sets out in the Morning. Hope for the best, all is here Unanimous. I am wishing You Health, The Sweetner of every Enjoy ment. Yours Silas Deane N.B. The Congress are not here after to disclose their proceedings but by Agreement. There is good Reason for it. I make no excuse to Jos. Webb, for not writing him particularly, as this is designed for his perusal and as I before said is a Family .Letter 8c a Summary of pro ceedings, 8c Sentiment to this Tuesday 6th of Sepr. 1774. Nine at Night. 1 RC (CtHi). A continuation of Deane to Elizabeth Deane, August 31—September 5, 1774. 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Deane to Elizabeth Deane, September 7, 1774. James Duane’s Notes of Debates Tuesday the 6t September [1774] The Congress met And the first Question debated was whether the Congress shoud Vote by Colonies & what weight each Colony shoud have in the determination? Mi Henry from Virginia insisted that by the oppression of Parlia ment all Government was dissolvd 8c that we were reduced to a State of Nature. That there were no longer any such distinctions as Colo nies. That he conceiv’d himself not a Virginian but an American. That one of the greatest Mischiefs to Society was an Unequal Repre sentation. That there might 8c probably woud be further Occasions for a Congress 8c that it was time to form such a System as woud give each Colony a Just weight in our deliberations in proportion to its opulence 8c number of Inhabitants its Exports 8c Imports. He was answerd by Mr [ ] J of Rhode Island who insisted that every Colony shoud have an equal Vote. That we came if neces sary to make a Sacrifice of our All 8c that the weakest Colony by such a Sacrifice woud suffer as much as the greatest.
