September 6, 1774 31 Col. Harrison from Viriginia insisted Strongly on the Injustice that Virginia should have no greater Weight in the determination than one of the smallest Colonies. That he should be censurd by his Con stituents Sc unable to excuse his want of attention to their Interest. And that he was very Apprehensive that if such a disrespect should be put upon his Countrymen we shoud never see them at another Convention. The debate then took a different Turn. It was observd that if an equal Representation was ever so Just the Delegates from the several Colonies were unprepard with Materials to settle that Equality. That was an Objection that coud not be answered. The Question was then put and 1. Resolved that the Sense of the Congress shall be taken by Vot ing in Colonies each to have one Vote. 2. Resolved that no person be permitted to speak twice on the same point unless with the Leave of the Congress. 3. Resolved that no Question be determined the same day it is de bated if any one of the Colonies desires that the determination be deferred to another day. 4. Resolved that the doors of the Congress be kept shut during the debates And that every Member be obligd under the strongest obli gation of Honor to keep secret the proceedings of the Congress until they shall be ordered to be publishd by the Congress. 5. Resolved that a Committee be appointed to state the Rights of the Colonies, the several Instances in which they have been violated & infringed and the means most proper to obtain Redress. 6. Resolved that a Committee be appoint’d to State &: Report the several Statutes respecting the Trade & Manufactures of the Colo nies. 7. A Question was put whether this Congress shoud be opend to morrow Morning with prayers. Mr Samuel Adams proposd the revnd Mr Duche 2 for this Service. Debates arose on this Subject. Those who were for the motion in sisting on the propriety of a Reverence & Submission to the Supreme Being & supplicating his Blessing on every Undertaking on the prac tice of the Romans the British Parliament & some of the Assemblies on the Continent. The difference of the religious Tenets of the Members. That it woud be considerd as Enthusiasm & Cant, &: the Efficacy of private Devotion. The want of a Suitable form in the book of Common pray ers: And the Hazard of submitting such a Task to the Judgement of any Clergy were the Topics urgd by those who were of opinion against the Motion. It was however Resolved that the Congress shall be opend tomorrow morning with
