42 September 7, 1774 Trade of all his Majesty’s Dominions, and that this Authority while it is exercised bona fide for the Purposes of Securing the Advantages of the Commerce of the whole Empire to Great Britain with a just Regard to the Interests of its respective Members ought not to be questioned. In this declaration we nevertheless absolutely exclude every Idea of Taxation internal and external for raising a Revenue on the Subjects of America without their Consent. III. That it is the Duty of the several Colonies not only to provide a Competent and honourable Support for the Administration of his Majesty’s Government and the Dispensation of Justice within their respective Limits: but also to grant a present and annual Supply to wards defraying the Expence of the royal Navy from which we derive the great Blessings of Protection in Common with the rest of our Fel low Subjects throughout the Empire. IV. That it is the Duty of the several Colonies on every Emergen cy that may threaten the Security (of any part) of the Empire to contribute their Aids of Men and money in the common Cause, ac cording to their several Abilities And that this Congress is firmly per- swaded that the respective Legislatures of the Colonies will agree to any reasonable Plan which shall be recommended by his Majesty for drawing forth the united Strength and Aids of these Branches of his royal Dominions Whenever it shall be found necessary. V. That the Colonies are (bound by and) entitled to the benefits of, the common Law of England and such of the Statutes of that Realm, [& from Experience have been found] applicable to [their respective] local Circumstances, as existed at the time of our Colonization. 5 We do not however admit but absolutely reject the Authority of the Statutes of 26th King Henry 8th [Ch. 13th] 6 and King Edward 6 respecting [the trials for] Treasons and Misprisions [or Concealmts] of Treasons [committd out of the Realm as applied to Us by a late Constructn. which would effectually destroy all Secu rity of the Lives, Liberties & Properties of the Colonists] which can not, nor were intended to be of force where (Justice is duly administered) [Tribunals are Established For the due Administra tion of Justice] according to the Laws of England, but only in re mote and foreign parts where offenders for want of (proper) such Tribunals cannot be brought to legal Trial. That these his Majesty’s Colonies are Lik [ewise] entitled to all the Immunities and Privi- ledges granted to them by the royal Charter and Confirmed and se cured by their several Codes of provincial Laws; And that these re spective Rights cannot be altered or abridged by any other Authority than that of their respective Legislatures. VI. That the Colonists within their several Colonies are respective ly entitled to a free and exclusive power of Legislation in all Cases of Taxation and internal Polity, Subject only to the negative of the
