50 September 8, 1774 P.S. You will judge how Things are like to be in Boston, and whether it will not be best to remove the Office entirely to Braintree. Mr. Hill and Williams, may come up, if they choose, paying for their Board. 3 RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:150-51. 1 Adams apparently wrote this letter before receiving, later in the day, an accurate account of the British raid on the Quarry Hill powderhouse on September 1. ’John Thaxter (1755-91) , first cousin of Abigail, law apprentice of Adams, 1774-77, and tutor to the Adams children. Nathan Rice (1754-1834) also served as Adams’ law clerk, 1774-75. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), l:142n. 3 Edward Hill (1755-75), and Jonathan Williams (d. 1780) were law clerks of Adams. Ibid., p. 146n; Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:228n. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane Philadelphia Sepr. 8th. 1774 Thursday Morning. We are all in the greatest anxiety, that of a most cruel suspence as to the certainty of the Boston rupture, as No fresh intelligence has as yet arrived. Though intirely in Health, yet to shake off a Lassitude gathering on me, I rode out this Morning in Company with Miss Levy, who Lodges here, Five Miles South of this City before Breakfast. This is perfectly fine, both the Natural Soil, & the improvements, and she was able to give Me the Names of the Owners of the different Seats We pass’d by, which was as entertain ing, as the Morning Air was refreshing. I wish’d often You could have taken a Seat with Us, & admired the Country &: prospects. A River on each Side of Us the Delaware &: Schuylkill at about Three Miles distance, the former ftdl of large Topsail Vessels, at Anchor, or under Sail, & the latter winding through a Fine intervale Mead ow full of Cattle, Fatting for Market, for in these Meadows, they feed all their Beef for the City. B. Deane sets out in the Morning so shall close my Journal this Evening. 3 p.m. Having promised to wait on Mr. Marshall my kind Freind, before mentioned at 4 oClock, I have only Time to add, that to Our Joy Putnam’s blundering Story is contradicted, and that every thing as yet wears the most favorable aspect which Zeal & Unanimity can promise Us. My Freinds must content themselves with my expensive Tarry, for to settle the Rights, & ascertain the privileges of a Conti nent like this, is a Work of Time, & serious beyond the Conception of a bystander. You will read this in full Circle, & the bearer must explain it. My Love to all, Sally, Hannah, Hetty, Jesse, &c, &c. I am most affectionately Yours Silas Deane [P.S.] Turn to the Morning Service, in the prayer book, for the 7th Day of the Month, Psalm 35th I think it is. As Doctr. Turner goes in
