September 8, 1774 51 the Morning I close my Letter with adding, that The Bells of the City are Now ringing a peal of Joy on Acct, of the News of Boston’s hav ing been destroy’d being contradicted. 1 RC (CtHi) . A continuation of Deane to Elizabeth Deane, September 7, 1774. 1 For the conclusion of this letter, see Deane to Elizabeth Deane, September 9, 1774. James Duane’s Speech to the Committee on Rights [September 8, 1774] 1 The Task assigned to this Committee is no less important than it is difficult. It may be reduced to three Heads— 1. To State the Rights of the Colonies. 2. Their Grievances. 3. The Means of Redress. It is necessary that the first point, our Rights, should be fully dis cussed and established upon solid Principles: because it is only from hence that our Grievances can be disclosed; & from a clear View of both that proper Remedies can be suggested and applied. To ascertain the Constitutions of the Colonies has employed the Thoughts and the Pens of our ablest Politicians. But no System which has hitherto been published is solid or satisfactory. During Disputes which arose from the Stamp Act an Exemption from internal Taxes (seemed to be the ultimate of the General Voice Wish) seemed to give general Content. The Regulation of Commerce was submitted to Parliament. Their Authority to alter the police (and administration) of our respective Governments was not in Contem plation because it had not been exercised. Upon the Repeal therefore of the Stamp Act we had Reason to conclude that the Blessings of Security in our Liberties 8c Harmony with the Parent State woud be placed on a permanent Basis. But short was our Repose and fleeting our Expectations. A despot ic Minister soon discovered that under the Idea of a commercial Regulation our Property might still be invaded, and that by a guileful Change of a name we might still be oppressed at his pleasure. Hence arose Mr Townsends project of loading british Commodi ties (which we are restrained from importing from any other Nation) with American Duties—-As if this poor Evasion coud blind the Colo nists, and conceal the Evil which was cloaked under so thin a dis guise. The Resentment & Vigorous opposition of this Country, 8c the im mense Loss to which it exposed the british Manufacturers compeled the Repeal of this detested Law—Excepting the Article of Tea which has been the fatal Cause of our present Misfortunes. 579-852 0 - 77 - 6 Vol. 1
