52 September 8, 1774 It is now Sir essential to place our Rights on a broader & firmer Ba sis to advance and adhere to some solid and Constitutional Principle which will preserve Us from future Violations—a principle clear & explicite and which is above the Reach of Cunning, & the Arts of op pression. I hope if we have the Happiness to rest upon such a princi ple, we shall have the Fortitude and the strength to maintain it. Let it be founded upon Reason and Justice, and satisfy the Consciences of our Countrymen. Let it be such as we dare refer to the Virtuous and impartial part of Mankind, and we shall and must, in the issue of the Conflict, be happy & triumphant. (If this principle can call in to its Support) I conceive it to be the Duty of every Member to offer his Sentiments on this great Occasion without Reserve or Scruple. It will be examined with Candour and have all the weight it merits and if mine is defective it will be Ex cused from the uprightness of the Intention with which it is offered, & because it is an indispensable Duty. I shall not forget that we are Colonies, That we are indebted to her for the Blessings of Protection, and that she ought to derive from every commercial Advantage which is the Result of our Connection and Dependence, Nor shall I anticipate either our own past Merit or the cruel Oppressions under which we now labour, because these will more properly be the Subject of our next Head of Enquiry. To the Rights of the Colonies I mean at present to be confin’d. They may be (divided into two Heads) derived from two Sources. 1st. (As they are derived) from the common Law, &: such ancient Statutes as are coeval with our (Emigration) Colonization. 2. As they are granted and secured by Charter. Upon This last head I shall (refer to) reserve myself for further Information from Gentlemen whose local Circumstances have led them to discuss it with more precision, then Leisure has enabled me. I shall only observe that their Charters are to be esteemed as Com pacts, that they have long been acquiesced in, and if exceptionable in their origin can not now be violated but by oppression. 2 The first is a principle that is more general and extensive if not more solid and se cure: and this I shall proceed to consider. England is governed by a limited Monarchy and a free Constitu tion. But if the Subject is bound by a Law to which he does not as sent, either personally or by his Representative, he is no longer free but under an arbitrary power, which may oppress or ruin him at pleasure. It is admitted by the English Judicatories and has been solemnly resolved by the King in privy Council; that the Common Laws of England and such Statutes as existed prior to our Emigration are fundamentals in our Colony Constitution. Upon this grand Basis the
