September 8, 1774 53 prerogatives of the Crown 8c the Rights of the Subjects are as fully ascertained in the Plantations as in the parent State. By the same Constitution the King has the Excutive power and is the Fountain of Title offices and Honours. Hence arises his royal Au thority Prerogative 3 in the formation of Colonies to establish a Sys tem of Governt. legislative, Juridical and executive suitable to the Circumstance of a People who are blessed with the Priviledges which they never meant nor were supposed, nor coud forfeit, {by removing to a distant a more remote part of the English Empire} by altering their local situation within the same Empire. The priviledges of Englishmen were inherent They were their Birth right and of which they coud only be deprived by their free Consent. Every Institution legislative and Juridical, essential to the Exercise 8c Enjoyment of these Rights and priviledges in constitutional Security, were equally their Birth right and inalienable Inheritance. They coud not be with held but by lawless oppression and by lawless oppression only can they be violated. It is objected that upon this principle the Colonies are independent and exempt from the Authority of the British parliament and free from all Obligation to render to the parent State those advantages which ought to be the Recompence of Protection, to result from the very nature of Colonization And to be justified from the Usage of ev ery commercial Nation. To which it may be answerd that the Sovereignty and Prerogatives of the Crown {must effectually prevent the Independence of the Col onies} our own Security 8c the Ties of Friendship 8c common Interest the similiarity of our Government Laws and manners will be suffi cient to prevent {a Rupture} an Independence which nothing but Oppression can ever reconcile to an American Ear. {With respect to the Advantages arising from our Commerce it is certain that if we were under no Obligation the principal Advantages woud center in the parent Country where Manufactures are as cheap ir better in Quality.} But we need not depend on this observation. Had Great Britain till this late day taken no measures to secure the Commerce of the Colo nies but left them free to pursue their own Interest and Inclinations I shoud not hesitate to pronounce {any restrictive Act of Parliament of this late day to be} that all Restraints by Authority of Parliament would now be unauthoritative and oppressive. This however is not the Case. Every Just and reasonable Advan tage the parent Country has long since effectually secured and uni formly enjoyed. 4 1. That political Liberty is the great Object of the English Consti tution.
