58 September 9, 1774 Randolph was unanimously Elected to the Chair by the name of President. Charles Thompson was Chose Secretary and two Door keepers and Mesengers was also appointed. The Congress then pro ceeded to business and have Set every day since. I doubt their Rising before some time in October. Perhaps the Middle. All the Seven del egates appointed for Virginia are here, & more Sensible, fine fellows you’d Never Wish to See, in short it is the greatest Assembly (in pro portion to the Number) that ever was Collected in America. And the Bostonians who (we know) have been Condemned by Many for their Violence, are Moderate men, When Compared to Virginia, South Carolina and Rode Island. In Short all the Colonies Seem to be hearty in the Cause, and have the greatest Respect paid them by all the first people here. A Letter to Mr. Cushing by Express from Boston informs that all is Quiet as Yet, That their Superior Court had Met under the act of Parliament for altering their Government, but that it Could not proceed for want of Jury men who would not attend, That allmost all the Judges appointed under that act had waited on the Governor with Resignations. 2 Captain Inglis is arrived with Some dry Goods from London, George Emlens Ship is Expect ed every day quite full, there is an Accot. of her Sailing, All &: Fort ner are also Expected soon. I have been Verry poorly ever Since I Came to town, but hope Shall get better. Remember me to Betsey, Sally, Caesar and to all Enquiring friends, the Congress Meets at Nine, therefore have not more time than to Say I am Yr. Humble Servt. Caesar Rodney RC (PHi) . Addressed: “To Mr. Thomas Rodney at Dover, favoured by Mr. McFerson." 1 Thomas Rodney (1744-1811), brother of Caesar Rodney, Delaware political leader, and later a delegate to Congress, 1781-82, 1786. DAB. 3 Suffolk County jurors at the August term of the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature refused to take their oath when Peter Oliver, who stood impeached by the House of the General Court, attempted to sit as chief justice. While a mob roamed Boston, the court sat but heard only nonjury cases. John Adams, Legal Papers of John Adams, ed. L. Kinvin Wroth and Hiller B. Zobel, 3 vols. (Cam bridge: Harvard University Press, 1965) , l:xc. Roger Sherman to Unknown Philadelphia Sept. 9th. 1774. Reports information concerning types and prices of stocking looms available in Philadelphia and re quests further instructions from a third party who apparently ordered one. Continues: “I Send this by Mr. Barnabas Deane. . . . The Congress have entered on Business but not come to any Conclusions. We were Alarmed a few Days ago with a report that Boston was
