September 9, 1774 59 fired upon by the Land and Sea forces, but it has been Since Contra dicted.” RC (CtY) . Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 9, 1774] 9th. The Comee. met, agreed to found our Rights upon the Laws of Nature, the Principles of the english Constitution & Charters &: Compacts; ordered a Sub. Comee. to draw up a State of Rights. 1 MS (RHi) . 1 John Adams’ diary for this day consists of the terse entry: "Attended my Duty upon Committees. Dined at home." Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:131. Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. My dear Children Philadelphia 9th Sepr. 1774 Through the divine Goodness I am very well. Cajoe had some Complaints yesterday like the small Pox but he is much better this Day that We think it was only a cold or Fatigue. As far as I can judge there will be very little Danger of my taking it. The Congress is full excepting the Gentlemen from North Caroli na. We chose the Honble Payton Randolp Esqr. of Virginia Presi dent &: Mr. Charles Thompson of this Town Secry. Agreed that each Colony should have one Voice on every Question. This was warmly debated, some of the larger Colonies wanted a larger Number of Voices. We agreed upon Honor not to discover any of the Proceed ings until it was determined to make them public. You must there fore expect nothing from Me on that Head. We are as unanimous as I expected. Much the largest Part of the Province is hearty in the Cause of Liberty. The southern Gentlemen have been used to do no Business in af ternoon so that We rise about 2 or 3 o’Clock & set no more that Day & as we meet late in a Morning We shall sett a long while. I dont doubt but You will do all You can in the Business. Be careful of the shop Sc charge every thing unpaid for. I hardly think I shall want much Money if any so that you need not be uneasy on that Acct. Your Orchard ought to be carefully shut up that You may save what Apples you can, try to buy some Cyder for none is to be had here or on the Road. It is Time your fat Cattle were on the Island. They
