60 September 9, 1774 should be fed with Potatoes. Your Hogs also ought to have Potatoes plentifully every Day. I had the Pleasure of seeing Mr. Davis here this Day. He is gone to preach in the Country & is to call upon Me as he comes back but I fear I shall not be able to go home with him. All that I can say is that I shall endeavour to do my Duty here as soon as I can & if I am well return as soon as possible. You have my daily Prayers & I hope you will all pray for yourselves. If your dear Sister 1 be alive May God of his infinite Goodness still support & comfort her Sc carry her chearful- ly through her great Change. My most affectionate Regards to your Aunt. I hope She will stay till my Return. That the Lord may be with You & bless you is the ardent Prayer of your affect. Father. S Ward RC (RHi). Addressed: “To Mr. Samuel Ward Junr. In Westerly in the Colony of Rhode Island." 1 Hannah Ward (1749-74), Samuel Ward’s eldest daughter, died the day before this letter was written. Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg) , p. 214. John Adams’ Diary 1774 Septr. 10. Saturday. Attended my Duty upon the Sub Committee. 1 Dined at home. Dr. Morgan, Dr. Cocks [Cox?], Mr. Spence [Spencer?], and several other Gentlemen, Major Sullivan and Coll. Folsom dined with us upon Salt Fish. Rambled in the Evening with Jo. Reed, and fell into Mr. Sprouts Meeting where We heard Mr. Spence preach. Mr. Reed returned with Mr. Adams and me to our Lodgings, and a very social, agreable and communicative Evening We had. He says We never were guilty of a more Masterly Stroke of Policy, than in moving that Mr. Duche might read Prayers, it has had a very good Effect, &c. He says the Sentiments of People here, are growing more and more favourable every day. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield) ,2:131. 1 The exact composition of the subcommittee remains unknown, but Samuel Ward and John Rutledge were also members. Adams later stated that the subcom mittee was appointed because the grand committee’s “discussions spun into great length, and nothing was decided.’’ Adams asserted his own leading role in compos ing the resolves reported by the subcommittee. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:309-10. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear [September 10-11, 1774] Barney supp’d with Us last Night, and set out this Morning at
