September 10, 1774 61 Five. By him You will receive Our proceedings to The Time of his Departure. The Family we Lodge in here consists of a Widow Lady turned of Forty as I judge, genteel 8c sensible, has been handsome, 8c is still comely. She has a Daughter her eldest Child, lately married to a Lieutenant, in the Regiment here, one Mr. Trist, who lodges with Us. 1 She has also Two Sons, that are one at Apprentice with a Mer chant, the other at School. This is the standing Family, but every Room is now full. Two more Gentlemen from Charlestown So. Caro lina—8c a Sick Gentleman from Jamaica lodge here. The Two former arrived last Evening, the Latter poor Man has been here sometime, & will probably never more remove but by help of others to his last Lodgings,—the Grave. I have not seen him. The Officer here, is much to be pitied, his Commission is his principal dependence. He loves this Country, he loves his Young Wife, who is very deserving, and who is a warm daughter of Liberty, yet is ordered this Morning, to be ready, to March in the After Noon for Boston. This is really af fecting and my passions are too sensible of soft impressions to view the Struggle between duty so called, Interest 8c Honor military on the one hand, and Affection, 8c an honest Regard 8c Tenderness on the other. As We have all dined, 8c supp’d together, on a free footing at the same Table, he seems the nearer to Us, and Our repeatedly as serting that the Troops at Boston would be cut off if they attempted anything against That Town 8c province, gives him 8c his Connections the most Uneasy 8c Melancholy Apprehensions. Could he get rid of his Commission on any Terms, short of ruining himself he would gladly do it. The Troops here which are to assist in reducing New England, & all America amount to One Hundred 8c Eighty of which [Sixty?] are old worn out, invalids, unable to March [as far] as Boston in Six Weeks were they to have the [plunder] of the Town for their asking —and the rest disaffected to the unnatural employ. It is a doubt with Me, whether the People here will let them March. Had Blood been shed by the Soldiery at Boston, there would have been No doubt at all, for these Soldiers in that Case would before this have been dis armed, 8c dispersed, but it is dangerous to begin hostility, but on the most urgent occasion 8c indeed absolute Necessity. I design to view them when on their March. I gave you the Character of the South Carolina Delegates or rather a Sketch. I will now pursue the plan I designed. Mr. Randolph our worthy President may be rising of Sixty, of noble appearance, & pre sides with dignity. Col. Harrison may be Fifty an uncommonly large Man, and appears rather rough in his address, 8c speech. Col. Wash ington is nearly as Tall a Man as Col. Fitch and almost as hard a Countenance, yet with a very young Look, 8c an easy Soldierlike Air, 8c gesture. He does not appear above Forty five, yet was in the first
