September 11, 1774 63 RC (CtHi) . Deane apparently composed this letter over the space of 10 days, concluding it “Monday Evening 11 oClock 19th Sepr. 1774.” It is printed here in three parts under the dates September 10-11, September 12-18, and September 19, 1774. 1 Ensign Nicholas Trist, Eighteenth Regiment of Foot, whose company had just been ordered to march to Boston. See Robert Treat Paine’s Diary, September 9, 1774. ’For the continuation of this letter, see Deane to Elizabeth Deane, September 12-18, 1774. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 10, 1774] 10th. Met, added two to the sub. Comee. which sat & considered the Subject & adjourned to 9 o’Clock on Monday. MS (RHi). John Adams’ Diary 1774. Septr. 11. Sunday. There is such a quick and constant Succession of new Scenes, Characters, Persons, and Events turning up before me that I cant keep any regular Account. This Mr. Reed is a very sensible and accomplished Lawyer of an amiable Disposition—soft, tender, friendly, &rc. He is a friend to his Country and to Liberty. Mr. Reed was so kind as to wait on us to Mr. Sprouts Meeting, where we heard Mr. Spencer. These Ministers all preach without Notes. We had an Opportunity of seeing the Custom of the Presbyterians in administering the Sacrament. The Communicants all came to a Row of Seats, placed on each Side of a narrow Table spread in the Middle of the Alley reaching from the Deacons Seat to the front of the House. Three setts of Persons of both sexes, came in Succession. Each new sett had the Bread and the Cup given to them by a new Minister—Mr. Sprout first, Mr. Treat next and Mr. Spencer last. Each Communicant has a token, which he delivers to the Deacons or Elders, I dont know which they call em. As We came out of Meeting a Mr. Webster join’d us, who has just come from Boston, and has been a generous Benefactor to it, in its Distresses. He says he was at the Town Meeting, and he thinks they managed their Affairs with great Symplicity, Moderation, and Dis cretion. 1
