September 12, 1774 67 Committee the Congress has injoined every member to keep a Secret till the Whole business is done, When the Whole of their proceedings Will be published to avoid needless disputations out of Doors. This is much to the disappointment of the Curious. 3 We do not Expect to rise till Some time in October. There are more Strangers in Town now (Exclusive of the Gentlemen of the Congress) than ever was known at any one time. George Emlen’s Ship Captn. Miller is Ar rived from London as full as She Can Swim with dry Goods. All is Looked for every day, and it is Supposed Fortner will not be Long behind him. An Irish Ship is just Come to town Who Landed her passengers at Newcastle, and says that in puting them on Shore a Small Boat with 22 of them With their Effects was overset 19 of Whom Lost their lives between the Ship and the Warff. I beg you’l Write me by the first oppertunity Giving a State of Affairs below both public and private, and if any thing occur’s out of the Common Road I Shall take Care to advise you of it. I am Sorry for the Loss of our poor Neighbour Minchall, more especially for his family Who must most Sensibly feel it. The gentlemen of the City are entertaining the Gentlemen of Congress every day by parcels—and on Fryday next the Citizens in General are to entertain the Whole Congress at the Statehouse. It is intended to be the greatest enertainment that ever was made in this City, the Expence of Which is Computed to a Thousand pounds at least. I Do not now Recollect any thing more by way of news. Therefore desire to be Remember’d as heretofore. I am Your friend & Relation Caesar Rodney RC (PHi). 1 John Macpherson, Jr. (1754-75), Pennsylvania lawyer, became aide-de-camp to Gen. Richard Montgomery. William Macpherson Hornor, "Extracts from the Let ters of John Macpherson, Jr., to William Patterson, 1766-1773," PMHB 23 (1899) : 51-59. ’Jonathan Shipley (1714-88), Bishop of St. Asaph, wrote the pamphlet, A Speech Intended to Have Been Spoken by the Bishop of St. Asaph, on the Bill for Altering the Charters of the Colony of Massachusetts. The Speech went through several London editions and was widely republished in the colonies. For a broader discussion of Shipley and for a reprint of both the Speech and his similarly popular Sermon Preached before the Incorporated Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, see Paul H. Smith, comp., English Defenders of American Freedoms, 1774-1778 (Washington: Library of Congress, 1972), pp. 9-14, 29-43. 3 Efforts to keep debates and activities of Congress secret were a limited success. Thomas Wharton (1735-78) , Philadelphia merchant and subsequently President of Pennsylvania, claimed that "by a rule established at the opening of the Congress, we cannot get copies of their proceedings, but my intimacy with the leading members of most of the colonies, gives me an opportunity in conversation of knowing their daily results. . . Thomas Wharton to [Thomas Walpole], Sep tember 23, 1774, "Selections from the Letter-Books of Thomas Wharton of Phila delphia, 1773-1783,” PMHB 33 (1909) : 446. 579-852 C — 7 Vol. 1
