September 14, 1774 69 whatsoever. A Right of regulating Trade is a Right of Legislation, and a Right of Legislation in one Case, is a Right in all. This I deny. Attended the Congress and Committee all the forenoon. Dined with Dr. Cox. Dr. Morgan, Dr. Rush, Mr. Bayard, old Mr. Smith dined with us. Dr. Rush lives upon Water Street and has from the Windows of his back Room and Chamber, a fine Prospect of Dela ware River, and of New Jersey beyond it. The Gentlemen enter tained us, with Absurdities in the Laws of Pensylvania, New Jersey and Maryland. This I find is a genteel Topic of Conversation here. A mighty Feast again, nothing less than the very best of Claret, Mad eira, and Burgundy. Melons, fine beyond description, and Pears and Peaches as excellent. This Day Mr. Chase introduced to us, a Mr. Carrell [Carroll] of Anapolis, a very sensible Gentleman, a Roman catholic, and of the first Fortune in America. 1 His Income is Ten thousand Pounds ster ling a Year, now, will be fourteen in two or 3 years, they say, besides his father has a vast Estate, which will be his, after his father. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:133-34 1 Charles Carroll of Carrollton (1737-1832), Maryland lawyer and statesman. Although his national career did not begin until 1776 with his appointment by Congress as a commissioner to Canada and subsequent election as a delegate. Carroll had gone to Philadelphia on September 6 to monitor the activities of Congress. His observations are contained in three letters to his father, Charles Carroll, Sr., September 7, 9, and 12, 1774. MdHi: Carroll Papers. Although “their debates are kept secret, and the deputies are under a tie of honour not to reveal what passes,” Carroll apparently acquired intimate knowledge of the proceedings and was pleased with his trip. “When I see you,” he continued in his letter of the 12th, “I shall be able to give you a full account of their deliberations.” For a similar claim, made by Thomas Wharton, that affairs of Congress were discussed in the presence of outsiders out-of-doors, see Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney, September 12, 1774, note 3. John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Phyladelphia Septr. 14. 1774 I have written but once to you since I left you. 1 This is to be im puted to a Variety of Causes, which I cannot explain for Want of Time. It would fill Volumes to give you an exact Idea of the whole Tour. My Time is to totally filled from the Moment I get out of Bed, untill I return to it. Visits, Ceremonies, Company, Business, News Papers, Pamphlets &c. &c. &c. The Congress will, to all present Appearance be well united and in such Measures, I hope will give Satisfaction to the Friends of our Country. A Tory here is the most despicable Animal in the Creation. Spi-
