70 September 14, 1774 ders. Toads, Snakes, are their only proper Emblems. The Massachu setts Councillors, and Addressers are held in curious Esteem here, as you will see. The Spirit, the Firmness, the Prudence of our Province are vastly applauded, and We are universally acknowledged the Saviours and Defenders of American Liberty. The Designs, and Plans of the Congress, must not be communicat ed, untill compleated, and We shall move with great Deliberation. When I shall come home I know not, but at present I dont expect to take my Leave of this City these four Weeks. My Compliments, Love, Service where they are due. My Babes are never out of my Mind, nor absent from my Heart. Adieu. John Adams RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:155. 1 Adams had written twice previously on this trip: from Princeton, N. J., August 28, and Philadelphia, September 8. John Adams to William Tudor My Friend Phyladelphia Septr. 14. 1774 I have been so totally taken up, that I dont know whether I have acknowledged your Agreable Letters or not. 1 They have been of Use as well as Amusement to me I assure you. You can hardly conceive the avidity with which your Letter and Mr Trumbulls, and indeed every Scrap of Letter or Newspaper from Boston is read here. You cannot conceive the Esteem and Honour in which the Mass, is held here. While I write this, the Gentlemen Delegates are all around me reading your News Papers. I hear them all around me praising and admiring. By (God) g-d says one, I dont believe there is such a Peo ple in the World!—another Answers him, I really dont think there is so fine a People upon the Globe—So cool, So cautious, so prudent, and yet So unalterably determined. My Dear Friend, pray write to me by every opportunity. Dont wait for Returns from me. I have so much Business—so much Plea sure—so much Ceremony and so much Trifling to do here that I have not Time to write a Line. Yet I will give you a remembrancer when I can. The Congress are well united—but all is secret as yet. We shall do tolerably well. As Choice a Collection as North America can afford, I will an swer for it. Adieu John Adams
