September 19, 1774 83 Arrival in this City. Our Friend Mr Quincy informd me before I left Boston of his Intention to take a Passage for England. I am perswad- ed he may do great Service to our Country there. Agreable to his and your Request I have desired Gentlemen here to make him known to their Friends and Correspondents. Last Fryday Mr Revere brought us the spirited and patriotick Resolves of our County of Suffolk. We laid them before the Congress. They were read with great Applause, and the inclosed Resolutions were unanimously passed, which give you a faint Idea of the Spirit of the Congress. 2 I think I may assure you that America will make a point of supporting Boston to the Ut most. I have not time to enlarge, & must therefore conclude with as suring you that I am with great Regard Your affectionate Humble Servant Samuel Adams RC (MHi) . 1 Charles Chauncy (1705-87) , Congregational minister of the First Church in Boston and one of the most influential religious leaders in New England. DAB; and Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 6:439-60. 3 JCC, 1:39-40. Thomas Cushing to Richard Devens and Isaac Foster, Jr. Gentlemen Boston [i.e., Philadelphia] Sept. 19. 1774 We have received your Favor of the 5th Instant inclosing a Copy of the Proceedings of the Comttee from the Several Towns & districts in the County of Middlesex and communicated them to the Congress. 1 The Members of the Congress were highly pleased with your Resolutions 8c much applaud The Wisdom, temperance and Fortitude of your Conduct but as at the time your Proceedings came to hand the Congress were very Busy 8c several large Committees were closely engaged upon matters of great Importance there was then no opportunity particularly to take under Consideration the State of the Province of the Massachusetts Bay. However on the 16 Instant an Express arrived 8c brought us the Resolutions of the Coun ty of Suffolk and as in the Letter Accompaning them there was an express application to the Congress for advice, The affairs of the Massachusetts were immediately taken up 8c several Resolutions passed, 2 which I now Inclose, approving of the Wisdom 8c Fortitude with which our People in general had Conducted the opposition to the late ministerial Measures. And we trust, they will strengthen the hands 8c Comfort the hearts of the Freinds to American Liberty as well as Confound 8c Discomfit its Enemies. In great haste I am in be- 579-852 0 - 77 - 8 Vol. 1
