September 21, 1774 89 principally relied on, as related in a letter to you from Col. Mat thews, the chairman, might seem to be in a great measure invalidated by his certificate as chairman “at a meeting of the inhabitants of the precincts of Goshen and Cornwall.” And Mr. De Hart’s certificate might probably pass for those others of the county. Upon the whole it was our unanimous opinion that we could not with any prospect of success oppose Mr. Wisner’s qualifications on the evidence we were yet possessed of, but to wait for the vouchers which you seem so de termined to exhibit against him, which we must submit to your dis cretion. MS not found; reprinted from Franklin Burdge, A Second Memorial of Henry Wisner (New York: Privately Printed, 1898), pp. 15-16. ’John Haring and Henry Wisner were elected as delegates for Orange County on August 16 at a meeting “of all the Committees of the County of Orange," reportedly attended by only 20 of the county’s estimated 1,000 eligible freeholders. Wisner, perhaps in an effort to broaden his support, had his election confirmed on September 3 at a meeting of the inhabitants of the Orange County precincts of Goshen and Cornwall, after which he went to Philadelphia and took his seat in Congress on the 14th. Wisner won this second election by only two votes, however, and then alledgedly only through some electoral irregularities, which William Wickham and David Matthews, both conservatives, described to Low in a letter of September 16, now lost. Wisner managed to overcome the complaints of Wickham and Matthews, as Low goes on to explain here, by producing certificates attesting to the validity of his joint election with Haring in August and his own confirmato ry election in September. Hence he retained his seat and was joined on the 26th by Haring, who was then admitted to Congress. Burnett, who in this respect was otherwise very scrupulous, knew that Wisner attended the First Congress but failed to mention it in his record of Wisner’s service as a delegate. Burnett, Letters, l:lvii, 17n.l5; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:879; NYHS Collections 10 (1878): 367; and Burdge, Second Memorial, p. 15. "There are facsimile reprints of these certificates in G. Franklin Wisner, The Wisners in America and their Kindred: A Genealogical and Biographical History (Baltimore: Privately Printed, 1918) , pp. 25, 27. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 20, 1774] 20th. The Comee. met, resumed &c, and adjourned. (Mr. Hopkins sick.) MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1774. Wednesday. Septr. 21. Captn. Callender came to breakfast with Us. Coll. Dagworthy and
