September 25, 1774 99 that. The Remainder of the Day is necessary for Relaxation & my Eyes are such I dont think it prudent to write by Candle Light. I fear my Friends will take it unkindly &: how to help it I know not but shall comply with their Expectations as much as possible. Give my most affectionate Regards to your Aunts and to all my immediate Connections. I reed, a kind Letter from Mr. Ethan Clarke but could write him nothing certain, in my next may be able. May God of his infinite Mercy preserve You from all evil and lead You in the Way everlasting. Your most affectionate Father Sam: Ward [P.S.] I say nothing about my own Business because of the Sabbath. 3 RC (RHi) . Addressed: "To Mr. Samuel Ward Junr. In (Rhode Island) Westerly." 1 A reference to the death on September 8 of Ward’s eldest daughter, Hannah. See Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr., September 9, 1774. “Very likely these were broadsides containing Congress' resolution of September 22, requesting American merchants to suspend importations of British goods until Congress had publicly announced “the means to be taken for the preservation of the liberties of America." For a facsimile reproduction of the broadside with the September 22 resolution see the page facing JCC, 1:42. 3 Ward was a Sabbatarian Baptist who observed the Sabbath on Saturday. Ward, Correspondence (Knollenberg), p. 20; Frank S. Mead, Handbook of Denominations in the United States, 2d ed. rev. (New York: Abingdon Press, 1961) , pp. 50-51. John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Phyladelphia Septr. 25. 1774 1 I would not loose the Opportunity of writing to you—tho I must be short. Tedious, indeed is our Business. Slow, as Snails. I have not been used to such Ways. We sit only before Dinner. We dine at four O Clock. We are crowded with a Levee in the Evening. Fifty Gentlemen meeting together, all Strangers, are not acquaint ed with Each others Language, Ideas, Views, Designs. They are therefore jealous, of each other—fearfull, timid, skittish,— 2 RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:162-63. 1 Adams’ activities this Sunday included attendance at a Quaker Meeting and supper at the home of Stephen Collins. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) ,2:137. “This unfinished letter was probably not sent; it bears no seal, address, or endorsement. 579-852 0 - 77 - 9 Vol. 1
