September 25, 1774 101 Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [September 25, 1774] Fine day. A.M. [Wind Rains?] Stopped. P.M. to Quaker Meet ing. General Meeting of Quakers in Philada. Evening reed letters from J. Greenleaf, B. Kent & J. Palmer. MS (MHi) . George Read to Gertrude Read Sunday Morning half past 7 O’Clock [September 25? 1774] 1 My dear Gitty This being Sunday Morning I was in hopes Betsey Biddle wou’d have set off to see you but she went to Pat. Turners yesterday &: did not return last Evening. I have not seen her since this day Week though we are in the same Street and hardly A Square’s distance. The day is Consumed in this Way—Shaving, Washing, breakfasting, waiting an Hour for the Barber’s coming, near half an Hour under his hands—running to the Congress, sitting there ’till 3 O’Clock then running to dine upon Invitation—waiting an hour before dinner ap pears—then running home to avoid the Night Air. Not A moment to spare is disagreeable yet very little in all the bustle. We are wide of our business. I shall send the Carriage down this Week that you may return with it when you please but think the sooner the better on Ac count of the Weather. This is to go by Mr. Barclay who is waiting. I dine to day at Gurney’s where I expect to meet Mr. Biddle—tomor row at Mr. Dickinson’s a 2d time and Wednesday at Mr. Rd. Penn’s &c. This is tiresome duty. Prepare to come up as I wish to see You. I cannot come to you but conclude abruptly yours most Affectly. Geo. Read RC (MdHi photostat) . 1 Read’s remarks indicate that he wrote this letter during September, but after he had been in Philadelphia some time. Since he wrote another letter to Mrs. Read on September 18, he must have written this one September 25. Richard Penn entertained the delegates (an invitation mentioned by Read) on Wednesday, September 28. John Adams’ Diary, September 28, 1774. George Washington to Joseph Chew Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sept. 25. 1774 It would have given me sincere pleasure to have serv’d you in your request of March the 10th (which by the by did not come to my
