104 September 26, 1774 The Sugar carries the greatest Revenue—the Rum a great deal. If you dont stop the Lumber immediately, you cant stop it at all. If it takes Place immediately, they cant send home their next Years Crop. A Non Exportation at a future day, cannot avail us. What is the Situation of Boston and the Massachusetts. A Non Exportation at the Virginia Day, will not opperate before the fall 1766 [1776], I[t] would not affect the Trade of the Colonies to the Mediterra nean or other Parts of the World. I am for a more distant Day than the first of November. Mr. Linch. We want not only Redress, but speedy Redress. The Mass, cant live without Government I think one Year. Nothing less than what has been proposed, by the Gentleman last speaking, will put the Colonies in the State I wish to see them in. I believe the Par liament would grant us immediate Relief. Bankrupcy would be the Consequence if they did not. Mr. Gadsden. By saving our own Liberties, we shall save those of the West Indies. I am for being ready, but I am not for the sword. The only Way to prevent the sword from being used is to have it ready. ’Tho the Virginians are tied up, I would be for doing it without them. Boston and New England cant hold out—the Country will be del uged in Blood, if We dont Act with Spirit. Dont let America look at this Mountain, and let it bring forth a Mouse. Mr. Chace. We cant come into a Non Exportation immediately without Virginia. Mr. Cushing. For a Non Importation, Non Exportation and Non Consumption, and immediately. Coll. Bland. It has been our Glory [. . . .] 2 Mr. Hooper. We make some Tobacco. I was instructed to Protest vs. Petitioning alone. Tar, Pitch, and Turpentine We can ship nowhere but to Great Britain. The whole of the Subsistence of the People in the Southern Parts, are from naval Stores. G. Britain cannot do without Naval Stores, from N. Carolina. Mr. Ed. Rutledge. A Gentleman from the other End of the Room talked of Generosity. True Equality is the only public Generosity. If Virginia raises Wheat instead of Tobacco they will not suffer. Our Rice is an enumerated Commodity. We shall therefore loose all our Trade. I am both for Non Im and Exportation to take Place immediately. Mr. Henry. We dont mean to hurt even our Rascalls—if We have any. I move that December may be inserted instead of November.
