108 September 27, 1774 It will shorten the Revenue near one million, one half of which arises from Tobacco. It will deprive them of many raw Materials viz Indigo, potash, Lumber, Iron, Pitch, Tar 8cc. A Suspension of Trade with the W Indies—they will want Lumber to save their Crops—provision to feed their Slaves—Horses to work their Lands. Britain will feel it severely, for many Plantations are ownd there—those which are ownd in the West Indies owe to British Merchts one Crop before it is made. Stoping Exportation of Flax Seed to Ireland will put at least 300,000 Linnen Manufacturers out of Employ—34000 hhds are usualy exported from America in the Winter—the Irish can get but little from Holland or elsewhere—half the Irish Linnen Manufacture is due to G B before it is made. Many Gentn 8c members of Par in Engd own Estates in Ireland. MS (NN). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 After devoting several days to "consideration of the general state of American rights,” the delegates decided on September 24 to "deliberate on the means most proper to be pursued for a restoration of our rights,” and on September 26-27 discussed suspension of trade with Britain as a "means” to be used to obtain restoration of those rights. On the 27th Congress resolved to begin nonimportation effective December 1, 1774, and on the 30th voted to prohibit "the exportation of all merchandize and every commodity whatsoever to Great Britain, Ireland and the West Indies” effective September 10, 1775. JCC, 1:42—43, 51—52. Simultaneously a committee was appointed to prepare a plan to carry these resolves into effect, and at various times during the following week Congress debated a motion for the immediate suspension of certain exports upon which Britain was particularly dependent—a proposal that was not finally rejected until October 6. It was surely in the context of weighing the impact of a suspension of trade with Britain that Adams drafted these notes, but it is not known when or for what specific purpose they were prepared, although it seems more likely that they were written before rather than after the nonimportation resolution of September 27 was adopted. Samuel Ward’s Diary [September 27? 1774] 27th. The Congress met 8c conside[re]d non Imp [ortatio] n 8c non Exp[ortatio]n. 1 MS (RHi) . J Ward probably wrote this passage on September 30 or October 1. The passage itself has been inserted into a small space in the MS between Ward’s entries for September 26 and 28. Since Ward initially misdated his diary entries for September 28, 29, and 30 one day too early and did not rectify his error until September 30 or October I, the obvious conclusion is that at this time Ward also realized that he had made no entry for September 27 and inserted the entry printed above.
