September 28, 1774 109 John Adams’ Diary 1774. Wednesday. Sept. 28. Dined with Mr. R. Penn. A magnificent House, and a most splen did Feast, and a very large Company. Mr. Dickinson and General Lee were there, and Mr. Moiland [Moylan], besides a great Num ber of the Delegates. Spent the Evening at Home, with Coll. Lee, Coll. Washington 1 and Dr. Shippen who came in to consult with us. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:140. 1 George Washington’s diary for this day reads: "Dined at Mr. Edward Ship pen’s. Spent the afternn. with the Boston Gentn.” Washington, Diaries (Fitzpat rick) , 2:165. John Adams’ Notes of Debates [September 28, 1774] Mr. Galloway. The Proposal I intended to make having been op posed, I have waited to hear a more effectual one. A general Non Importation from G. Britain and Ireland has been adopted, but I think this will be too gradual in its Operation for the Relief of Bos ton. A General Non Exportation, I have ever looked on as an indigest ed Proposition. It is impossible America can exist, under a total Non Exportation. We in this Province should have tens of Thousands of People thrown upon the cold Hand of Charity. Our Ships would lie by the Walls, our Seamen would be thrown out of Bread, our Ship wrights &c. out of Employ and it would affect the landed Interest. It would weaken us in another Struggle which I fear is too near. To explain my Plan I must state a Number of facts relative to Great Britain, and relative to America. I hope no facts which I shall state will be disagreable. In the last War, America was in the greatest Danger of Destruc tion. This was held up by the Massachusetts] and by the Congress in 1754. They said We are disunited among ourselves. Their is no in different Arbiter between us. Requisitions came over. A No. of the Colonies gave most exten sively and liberally, other [s] gave nothing, or late. Pensylvania gave late, not for Want of Zeal or Loyalty, but owing to their Disputes, with Proprietors—their disunited State. These Delinquencies were handed up to the Parent State, and these gave Occasion to the Stamp Act. America with the greatest Reason and Justice complained of the Stamp Act.
