no September 28, 1774 Had they proposed some Plan of Policy—some Negociation but set afoot, it would have terminated in the most happy Harmony be tween the two Countries. They repealed the Stamp Act, but they passed the declaratory Act. Without some Supream Legislature, some common Arbiter, you are not, say they, part of the State. I am as much a friend of Liberty [as] exists—and No Man shall go further, in Point of Fortune, or in Point of Blood, than the Man who now addresses you. Burlamaqui, Grotius, Puffendorf, Hooker. There must be an Un ion of Wills and Strength. Distinction between a State and a Multi tude. A State is animated by one Soul. As We are not within the Circle of the Supream Jurisdiction of the Parliament, We are independent States. The Law of Great Britain dont bind us in any Case whatever. We want the Aid and Assistance and Protection of the Arm of our Mother Country. Protection And Allegiance are reciprocal Duties. Can We lay claim to the Money and Protection of G. Britain upon any Principles of Honour or Conscience? Can We wish to become Aliens to the Mother State. We must come upon Terms with G. Britain. Some Gentlemen are not for Negociation. I wish I could hear some Reason against it. The Minister must be at 20, or 30 millions to inforce his Meas ures. I propose this Proposition. The Plan. 2 Classes of Laws. 1. Laws of Internal Policy. 2. Laws in which more than one Colony were con cerned, raising Money for War. No one Act can be done, without the Assent of Great Britain. No one without the Assent of America. A British American Legislature. Mr. Duane. As I mean to second this Motion, I think myself bound to lay before the Congress my Reasons. N. York thought it necessary to have a Congress for the Relief of Boston and Mass. And to do more, to lay a Plan for a lasting Accommodation with G. Brit ain. Whatever may have been the Motive for departing from the first Plan of the Congress, I am unhappy that We have departed from it. The Post Office Act was before the Year 1763. Can we expect last ing Tranquility. I have given my full Assent to a Non Im and Expor tation Agreement. The Right of regulating Trade, from the local Circumstances of the Colonies, and their Disconnection with each other, cannot be ex ercised by the Colonies. Mass, disputed the Navigation Act, because not represented, but made a Law of their own, to inforce that Act.
