September 28, 1774 111 Virginia did the same nearly. I think Justice requires that we should expressly ceed to Parlia ment the Right of regulating Trade. In the Congress in 1754 which consisted of the greatest and best Men in the Colonies, this was considered as indispensable. A civil War with America, would involve a national Bankruptcy. Coll. Lee. How did We go on for 160 Years before the Year 1763? We flourished and grew. This Plan would make such Changes in the Legislatures of the Col onies that I could not agree to it, without consulting my Constituents. Mr. Jay. I am led to adopt this Plan. It is objected that this Plan will alter our Constitutions and there fore cannot be adopted without consulting Constituents. Does this Plan give up any one Liberty?—or interfere with any one Right. Mr. Henry. The original Constitution of the Colonies, was founded on the broadest and most generous Base. The Regulation of Our Trade, was Compensation enough for all the Protection we ever experienced from her. We shall liberate our Constituents from a corrupt House of Com mons, but thro them into the Arms of an American Legislature that may be bribed by that Nation which avows in the Face of the World, that Bribery is a Part of her System of Government. Before We are obliged to pay Taxes as they do, let us be as free as they. Let us have our Trade open with all the World. We are not to consent by the Representatives of Representatives. I am inclined to think the present Measures lead to War. Mr. Ed. Rutledge. I came with an Idea of getting a Bill of Rights, and a Plan of permanent Relief. I think the Plan may be freed from almost every objection. I think it almost a perfect Plan. Mr. Galloway. In every Govennment, Patriarchal, Monarchical, Aristocratical or democratical, there must be a Supream Legislature. I know of no American Constitution. A Virginia Constitution, a Pensylvanian Constitution We have. We are totally independent of each other. Every Gentleman here thinks, that Parliament ought to have the Power over Trade, because Britain protects it and us. Why then will we not declare it. Because Parliament and Ministry is wicked, and corrupt and will take Advantage of such Declaration to tax us—and will also Reason from this Acknowledgment, to further Power over us. Answer. We shall not be bound further than We acknowledge it. Is it not necessary that the Trade of the Empire should be regulat ed by some Power or other? Can the Empire hold together, without
