116 September 28, 1774 Benjamin Franklin’s plan of confederation, introduced July 21, 1775, which had a reception similar to that accorded Galloway’s plan. JCC, 2:194-99; and Benjamin Harrison to Unknown, November 24, 1775. Thomson’s notation, following his September 27 entry and marked for insertion at the point of his "x”—"Wednesday. Here insert Mr. Galloway’s motion & plan”—was probably meant only as a copyist’s instruction and was obviously added and lined out after he made the entry for September 30. Of course Galloway, as a member of the committee appointed October 21 "to revise the minutes of the Congress,” would have seen this deletion. JCC, 1:101. It is understandable that he would have been distressed, particularly since on October 22 the delegates rejected a motion to reconsider the plan, and even that he later portrayed himself to governors William Franklin and Cadwal- lader Colden as the victim of a conspiracy. But if he pardonably exaggerated his treatment in his reports to high-ranking royal officials and in various pamphlets written during the next six years, he was not the only delegate who could have denounced Congress for ignoring his proposed recommendations. Little evidence survives to explain the circumstances which led to rejection of the motion to reconsider his plan on October 22. Perhaps the most telling is to be found in the exchange that took place between John Dickinson and Charles Thomson on the one hand and Galloway on the other, early in 1775. In a lengthy rebuttal to Galloway’s Candid Examination, which they submitted to the Pennsyl vania Journal; and the Weekly Advertiser, March 8, 1775, Dickinson and Thomson provided some interesting details which merit equal consideration with Galloway’s story. "Much has been said against the Congress, for rejecting this plan. The matter, I am told, stands thus—When it was first introduced in Congress, most of the members heard it with horror—as an idle, dangerous, whimsical, ministerial plan. Some of the ‘Pennsylvania Oracles,’ Friends, with whom infinite pains had been taken before hand, moved to have it committed. This was rejected, then, a motion was made that the plan might lye on the table to be taken up at any future day. This was carried in the affirmative. When the minutes came to be revised, towards the end of the sitting, the Plan was omitted. Here the patriot [Galloway] raged—and insisted on his right to have it on the Minutes. The question was put, and a great majority thought the inserting it in the Journal would be disgracing their records, and accordingly rejected it. Certainly, in such a Society, every question must, of course, be determined by a majority. If then a majority were of opinion, that the inserting it on their Journal would be disgrace ful and injurious, they unquestionably had a right to reject it. If his plan was defencible, why did he not enter into the argument with a Gentleman from Virginia who challenged him to it, and who said, he could prove it to be big with destruction to the Colonies? ’Tis true he did, when thus called upon, say, that he would defend it, if the Congress would appoint a day for that purpose. But this, Sir, was when all was hurry, and the forms of business only, delayed their breaking up.” For Galloway’s "reply” to Dickinson and Thomson, and further discussion of the entire exchange, see Joseph Galloway, A Reply to an Address to the Author of a Pamphlet, entitled, ‘A Candid Examination of the Mutual Claims of Great Britain and her Colonies,’ &c. (New York: James Rivington, 1775) ; Julian P. Boyd, Anglo-American Union: Joseph Galloway’s Plans to Preserve the British Empire, 1774-1788 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1941) , pp. 45-50; and Robert M. Calhoon, "’I Have Deduced Your Rights’: Joseph Galloway’s Concept of His Role, 1774-1775," Pennsylvania History 35 (October 1968) : 372-73. Finally, in addition to the sources noted above and the account Galloway elaborated in his 1780 statement printed below, another account that he sent to two Philadelphia newspapers in April 1775 also bears significantly on the consider ation given his plan. In response to a charge appearing in William and Thomas Bradford’s Pennsylvania Journal; and the Weekly Advertiser on April 5, 1775—that
