September 28, 1774 117 Galloway claimed credit not due him and that Benjamin Franklin (at the Albany Congress in 1754) was the true author of the plan—Galloway asserted that Frank lin’s name had been deliberately associated with the plan when it was circulated among the delegates in Congress. “I shall offer but one argument more in vindication . . . that he [Galloway, speaking in the third person] could entertain no design of taking from Doctor Franklin, or the Congress of 1754, the merit of the first [plan], He carried with him to the Congress the plan of 1754, with the reasons, under every article, which induced the then Commissioners to adopt them, in the Doctor’s own writing. He shewed it to several of the members, as the plan proposed by the Doctor, and agreed to by the Commissioners. He delivered it to one of the Delegates, without the least injunction or reserve. From that Delegate it passed into the hands of several others, until the gentleman to whom it was first delivered could not, for some time, discover in whose hands to find it. This was done to enable the members to compare the two plans, to digest the better the one then proposed, and if any addition could be made to it, that it might be done when it should be taken into consideration agreeable to the rule of the Congress [i.e., to the motion to reconsider the plan]." The Pennsylvania Gazette, April 26, 1775; and Story & Humphreys’s Pennsylvania Mercury, and Universal Advertiser, April 28, 1775. Joseph Galloway’s Plan of Union [September 28, 1774] A plan of a proposed Union between Great Britain and the Colonies of New Hampshire, The Massachusets Bay, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pensylvania, Maryland, the three lower Counties on Delaware, Virginia, North-Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. 1 That a British and American Government 2 for regulating the Ad ministration of the general Affairs of America be proposed and es tablished in America, including all the said Colonies: within and un der which Government each Colony shall retain its present Constitu tion and powers of regulating and governing its own internal Police in all Cases whatsoever. That the said Government be administer’d by a president General to be appointed by the King and a Grand Council to be chosen by the Representatives of the people of the several Colonies in their re spective Assemblies, once in every three years. That the several Assemblies shall choose Members for the Grand Council in the following Proportions—Viz. New Hampshire Massachusets Bay Rhode Island Connecticut New York New Jersey Pensylvania
