September 28, 1774 127 non-importation agreement; because whatever protestations, in that case, may be made to the contrary, it will prove to the world, that we intend to throw off our allegiance to the State, and to involve the two countries in all the horrors of a civil war. “With a view to promote the measure I have so earnestly recom mended, 1 have prepared the draught of a plan for uniting America more intimately, in constitutional polity, with Great Britain. It con tains the great outlines or principles only, and will require many ad ditions in case those should be approved. I am certain, when dispas sionately considered, it will be found to be the most perfect union in power and liberty with the Parent State, next to a representation in Parliament, and 1 trust it will be approved of by both countries. In forming it, I have been particularly attentive to the rights of both; and I am confident that no American, who wishes to continue a sub ject of the British State which is what we all uniformly profess, can of fer any reasonable objection against it. “I shall not enter into a further explanation of its principles, but shall reserve my sentiments until the second reading, with which I hope it will be favoured.” The introductory motion being seconded, the Plan was presented and read. Warm and long debates immediately ensued on the ques tion, Whether it should be entered in the proceedings of Congress, or be referred to further consideration. All the men of property, and most of the ablest speakers, supported the motion, while the republi can party strenuously opposed it. The question was at length carried by a majority of one Colony. Reprinted from Joseph Galloway, Historical and Political Reflections on the Rise and Progress of the American Rebellion (London: G. Wilkie, 1780) , pp. 65-81. 1 Although Galloway wrote this account several years after the events described, a fact to be carefully considered when evaluating his remarks, the passage reprint ed here has been dated September 28 to focus on the speech he made in behalf of his plan of union. This reconstruction of that speech, he explained, "is taken from his short notes.” Historical and Political Reflections, p. 70. For further background on Galloway’s submission of his plan, plus a discussion of comparisons between this version and John Adams’ Notes of Debates, this date, see Julian P. Boyd, Anglo-American Union: Joseph Galloway’s Plans to Preserve the British Empire, 1774-1788 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1941) , pp. 32-38. “That is, by Joseph Galloway. 3 Cf. John Adams’ Notes of Debates, this date, where Galloway is reported to have said, "America with the greatest Reason and Justice complained of the Stamp Act.” ‘John Adams wrote that Galloway claimed: “I am as much a friend of Liberty [as] exists—and No Man shall go further, in Point of Fortune, or in Point of Blood, than the Man who now addresses you.” Ibid.
