October 1, 1774 135 Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. My dear Children Philadelphia 1st Octr. 1774 Sammy’s Letter by last Post I have the Pleasure of and did design to have wrote yesterday and given some general directions about Business but could not get Time We rose so late from Business. The manner in which I live is so different from that to which I have been long used to that it incommoded Me vastly at first but Na ture kindly gives Way to Necessity & I can bear it as well again as at first. I am very well & think there is little or no Danger of the small Pox. We have much good Company here and have every Thing around us in the most elegant Taste but I am confirmed in the Opinion I have long been of that Happiness does not depend upon any Thing without Us. I have seen a man worth £50000 law[ful] m[one]y very unhappy in his Coach, a Rival in the public Eye, an imprudent Step in an only Child embitter all his Pleasures, and with Regard to myself though I am much pleased with the noble Sentiments 8c Ardor of some of the Congress, the Consciousness of my having come here upon the best Principles and having invariably pursued the public Good give me a much greater Satisfaction than every thing else, and the Pleasure of being with & taking Care of my little Tribe is much greater than all the Grandeur 8c Gaiety around Me can inspire. Again I think much of the noble Pleasures of Religion of the Worship of God in my own Family & in his House and long to share those truly important Re real Pleasures with you Re my Brethren Re Friends but Providence has pointed out this as the Scene of Action at present and I pray that I may [be] enabled to see Re do my Duty. Besides seeing Mr. Davis twice one of our Brethren of his Church was to see Me. He appeared to be a very modest good Man, my De sire is very great to visit them but whether I can conveniently do it is very uncertain. The Congress have come to a Resolution that a Non Importation Re non exportation Agreement shall take Place, [the fi]rst on 1st Deer, next, the last not until 10th Sepr. 1775. I lament its being post poned so late 8c did all I could to prevent it. Flaxseed will not be al lowed to be exported I think. I am in hopes we shall rise in a Fortnight or three Weeks but can form no Judgment with Certainty. There is a Vessel here which will sail for Newport this Week com ing 8c I design to write by her. In the mean Time Remember Me to all my Friends and in the most affectionate Manner to all your Aunts. I am vastly glad your Aunt Marchant has joined you 8c hope They will Stay until I come home that I may Once more have the Pleasure of seeing them at my own House. That the Lord may be
