138 October 2, 1774 and Kings (Simon Boerum) . Another county—Albany—first elected its own dele gates and then decided to allow the New York City delegation to act in its behalf, and three others—Westchester, Dutchess, and Ulster—simply took the latter course. On the other hand the six remaining New York counties took no action at all in regard to the election of delegates. Carl Becker, “The Nomination and Election of Delegates from New York to the First Continental Congress, 1774,” Political Science Quarterly 18 (1903) : 28-46. ‘For details of this “Strange Story” see Duane to John Tabor Kempe, October 11, 1774. John Adams’ Diary 1774 Monday Octr. 3. 1774. Breakfasted at home with Coll. Dagworthy of Maryland, Captn. Dagworthy his Brother, Major De Bois, Mr. Webb, Dr. Clopton &c. The hurry of Spirits I have been in, since my Arrival in this City, has prevented my making Remarks in my Journal as I wished to have done. The quick Succession of Objects, the Variety of Scenes and Characters, have rendered it impracticable. Major De Bois says he will drink Dispute this Morning. The Congress not come to Decision, yet. 1 Dined at home. This Day Charles Thompson and Thos. Mifflin were chosen Burgesses for this City. The Change in the Elections for this City and County is no small Event. Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Thompson, now joined to Mr. Mifflin, will make a great Weight in favour of the American Cause. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:146-47. 1 Adams is undoubtedly referring to instructions for the committee to prepare an address to the king, which were debated at length October 3, 4, and 5. JCC, 1:53-55. Silas Deane’s Diary [October 3, 1774] Monday Congress opened. 3d Octo. The president in the Chair. Ten oClock—both Motions read. Col. Lee makes a Motion for Amendment. See the Motion Sec onded by Col. Lee. 1 Opposed by Mr. Rutledge as being out of the Line of Our Busi ness, and in degree, a Declaration of Warr, which if intended, no other Measure ought to be taken up, but that We should he says speak out at Once. Col. Lee opposes him &: defends his Motion— that it is the Duty of the Congress to put the Americans on defending themselves.
