October 3, 1774 139 Mr. Roger Sherman, for it, confusedly enough though miss’d the Question if sat down. Col. Harison against it, that it will tend, only to irritate, whereas Our Business is to reconcile—that we are unable to defend Ourselves. Mr. Henry for it. Says that a preparation for Warr is Necessary to obtain peace—That America is not Now in a State of peace—That all the Bulwarks, of Our Safety, of Our Con- stitn. are thrown down, That We are Now in a State of Nature—That We ought to ask Ourselves the Question should the planns of Nonim[portatio]n & Nonexp [ortatio]n fail of success—in that Case Arms are Necessary, & if then, it is Necessary Now. Arms are a Resource to which We shall be forced, a Resource afforded Us by God & Nature, & why in the Name of both are We to hesitate provid ing them Now whilst in Our power. Mr. Rutledge again moving to postpone this and to take it up here after that it is out of Order and is a New Motion. Mr. Henry corrects him. Mr. Rutledge again. Col. Lee in the same Way. Mr. Duane in support of his first Motion that he is not for Warr, nor are his people. Mr. Rutledge again to Order. Mr. Pendleton declares it to be in Order but that it is exceptiona ble and proposes it to be amended. Mr. Rutledge junr. against it. Col Dyar for it at large. Mr. Low against it. Col. Bland against it. Mr. Henry again lengthy & zealous for it. Mr. Hooper against it as a most impolitic measure at this Time & if pursued will defeat its design. North Carolina has a Militia Law. South Carolina also has such a Law. Virginia has had one for a Cen tury, but N. Carolinas is a Temporary one pass’d at the express de sire of the Governor. General Gage is now beseiged, & is dependant on our Lenity. That N. Carolina is able to defend itself. Mr. Duane again. Mr. Lynch for it and Lengthy says We have already adopted much the same thing—That all Europe can not subdue it, &c but proposes a different Bill which Col. Lee agrees to. Mr. Jay says he would be for it were it as innocent as it is wise. Col. Bland against it. The Motion was again altered & amended and the Question being put was carried Unanimously. 2 Mr. Lynch moved respecting the Regulations of Trade or Acts of Charles the Second should be considered as obligatory. After long debating put off the Question untill Tomorrow Sc adjd. Supp’d at Evening at Mr. Mifflins. 3
