144 October 5, 1774 in favor of the Motion that some declaration ought to be made in the pacific Way. That the Regulations, of Trade, for the present ought to be pass’d over. It is better for the present to Temporize. Col. Dyer, for altering the Motion—but appears very confused. Maj. Sullivan, that the Motion is not sufficiently explicit but that We ought to Speak out. Proposes an amendment. Mr. Lynch against the whole Clause, as 1763 will leave some of the worst Acts in force —the Rice being enumerated—The Hatt Act—The Act for extend ing Land in America to the payment of Debts—The Act of Wm & Mary, & the 5th of George 2d. extend the power of jurisdictn. of Ad miralty invidiously. The Greivance of the Crown appointing Coun- cellors to act as Legislators, in the respective Colonies, are he says all of them Greivances to be remonstrated against. Mr. Adams jun. for the Motion. Says it does not imply, that We are to submit to all preceeding Acts—but that We shall by such re peal be in the State We were in in 1763 as to harmony. Mr. Low complains, that the Motion is not sufficiently explicit, that We ought to speakout, complains of being misapprehended, 8c, of being in a suspicious point of Light. Col. Lee answers, and is at large for the Motion. Col. Dyer again, (quite on one side of the Question). Mr. Adams senr. for the Amendment in part but proposes anoth er. Mr. Cushing strangely against it. Mr. Lynch for it. Mr. Jay, for the last amendment to appearance at first, but finally means to confound every thing. Mr. Henry answers him and is severe on Mr. Jay. Mr. Rutlidge senr. against the Whole of the Motion, 8c thinks it ought to be totally rejected as Admiralty Courts were extended be fore the Year 1763, which are the most enormous of any Whatever, and that he will never be easy while that extension remains as it in effect is destroying all privileges in the destruction of Trial by Juries. Mr. Henry 8c Mr. Rutledge dispute about the meaning of an Act of Parliament. Mr. Cushing in support of his Motion. Mr. Mifflin in support of the same. Mr. Jay up against the Motion. Mr. Sherman, up on Acct, of taking up the Greivances at large, 8c dropping the Motion. Mr. Read explains himself as to some Expressions in his Speech. Mr. Johnson, lengthy 8c in favor of the Motion. Col. Lee makes a New Motion for an Amendment in the Instruc tions to the Committee—reads it and it is seconded.
