October 5, 1774 149 full. America Ought not to Leave it Problematical! whether they will Ever put up with the Loss of their Liberties or not. When our Impor tant all is in Question, to use Weak & doubtfull Argts. is to give up the Cause or at Least to Weaken the Confidence of all our friends &: add Great Sp [iri] t to our Enemies, whereas on the other hand Meas ures Sufficiently Spirited & Extensive, will discourage & dishearten the Proudest of our Oppressors, & Strengthen the hearts of our Suf fering Brethern in Boston on Whose Resolution & Perseverance, the great cause of American Liberty much Depends, for if they Shd. Yeild the point, I dont know where the Next Stand might be Expect ed to be made. MS (NN) . In the hand of Robert Treat Paine. 1 Although this MS is undated, it seems certain that Paine delivered this speech on October 5 near the end of the debate on a motion for the immediate nonexpor tation of flaxseed—at which time, according to Silas Deane’s diary, “Mr. Pain, spoke about the impropriety of using the word sacrifice &c.” This debate had its origin in the delegates’ discussion of "the means most proper to be used for a restoration of American rights,” a discussion which had led to the adoption on September 30 of a resolution prohibiting all exports to Great Britain, Ireland, and the West Indies effective September 10, 1775. ]CC, 1:51-52. In the aftermath of this decision, Congress also had resolved on October 1 to prepare "a loyal address” to the king and the following week intermittently debated instructions for the committee appointed to prepare the "address” in the midst of the continuing debate on "means.” It was in this context that a motion had been made on October 1 for the immediate suspension of the export of some select items, of which flaxseed for Ireland was deemed the most important. The motion "for instant Nonexportation of Flaxseed” was subsequently postponed to Monday, October 3, but as the debate on Monday and Tuesday again focused on instructions for the committee to prepare the address to the king, it was not until Wednesday October 5 that attention returned to nonexportation, at which time “Mr. Adams,” according to Deane, moved “to bring on the Motion for Nonimportation of Flaxseed.” Although Deane does not further identify “Mr. Adams” (he often used the terms senior and junior to distinguish Samuel from John) , it seems probable from Samuel Adams’ interest in Paine’s speech and his participation in the debate the following day that it was indeed he who moved to resume debate on “instant Nonexportation and rose twice subsequently to speak on the subject before the end of the day. This conclusion is also supported by the fact that Paine’s notes for this speech are located in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. For further information on Adams’ interest in the subject of economic sanctions against Britain, see Samuel Adams Notes on Trade, September 27? 1774; and Silas Deane’s Diary, October 5, and 6, 1774. -Two pages containing the first two points in Paine’s speech are missing, but from the remaining text and the context of the debate in Congress on this day it can be surmised that Paine had discussed some of the consequences of halting exports to Great Britain, Ireland, and the British West Indies.
