150 October 5, 1774 John Sullivan to John Langdon Sir, Philadelphia, Septem’r [i.e. October] 5th, 1774. Your favor came safe to hand by Mr. Wharton. Am much obliged for the seasonable hint you have given respecting masts. I should gladly give you an account of our proceedings but am under an obli gation of Secrecy. Except with respect to the general non Importa tion & non Exportation the former to take place on the first of De cember next, the latter in September following. 1 We have selected those Acts which we determine to have a Repeal of or forever re strain our trade from Great Britain, Ireland & the West Indies; among which Acts is the Canada Bill, 2 in my opinion the most dan gerous to American Liberties among the whole train; for when we re flect on the dangerous situation the Colonies were in at the com mencement of the Late War with a number of those Canadians on their backs who were assisted by Powerful Indian Nations deter mined to extirpate the Race of Protestants from America to make way for their own Cursed Religion so Dangerous to the State & fa vorable to Despotism, & contemplate that by the late Act their Terri tory is so far extended as to include by far the greater part of North America: that this will be a city of refuge for Roman Catholicks who will ever appear in favor of the Prerogative of the Crown backed by an abandoned Minister, aided by the whole force of Great Britain & assisted by the same Indian Nations, we must suppose our Situation to be Infinitely more Dangerous now than it was then, for while we are engaged with the Canadians on our Frontiers our Seaports must yield to the Ministerial fleet & army & if they once prevail no man must expect safety until he professes that Holy Religion which our Sovereign has been pleased to establish. I am certain that two Gods may as well exist in the universe as those two Religions where the Papists have power to extirpate the professors of the other. We can easily discover the designs of the Act &: are determined to Counteract it at all events. I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you in a few days after this Letter comes to hand &: give you a particular account of our proceedings: in the interim I am yours respectfully, Jno Sullivan MS not found; text from Alfred Langdon Elwyn, comp.. Letters by Josiah Bartlett, William Whipple, and Others, Written before and during the Revolution (Phila delphia: H. B. Ashmead, 1889) , pp. 5-6, and Tr (DLC). 1 Nonimportation was agreed to September 27 and the nonexportation resolve was adopted September 30. JCC, 1:43, 51-53. 3 The Quebec Act, which became the focus of debate in Congress on October 17. See James Duane's Notes of Debates, October 17, 1774.
