October 7, 1774 161 Power, and as General Gage has thought proper to take possession of the Town of Boston with an armed force, and is converting that once free City into a Military Garrison The Congress advise from every motive of honor safety and wisdom that the Free Citizens of Boston no longer expose themselves to the dangerous consequences of these Military Manouvres, but quit their Town and find a safe asylum among their hospitable Countrymen, who we doubt not will on this trying occasion, display that virtuous humanity which may be so deservedly exercised 1 towards their brave oppressed Fellow Citi zens. And again we earnestly recommend it to all British America that they do from time to time plentifully supply these their dis tressed and diserving Countrymen. 2 MS (ViU) . In the hand of Richard Henry Lee, and endorsed by Lee: “Motion for Quitting Town of Boston." 1 Lee wrote “extended" over the word "exercised” but did not line out the latter. 3 Ford states that this motion was rejected but offers no documentation for the statement. JCC, l:59n. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 7, 1774] 7th. Met, appointed a Comee. to write to Genl. Gage &: the Come, of Correspondence. Consider’d the Instructions to be given the Co mee. MS (RHi) . Samuel Ward to Henry Marchant Dear Sir Philadelphia 7th Octr. 1774 A Resolution adopted at the Opening of the Congress to let noth ing transpire without particular Permission prevented my earlier writing to You 1 and some other Friends, and as the same Resolution is still in being I can only say that the Congress opened with the celebrated Number of 45 which hath since been augmented to 54 most of whose Names You have seen in the Papers. Committees for a State of Rights, Greivances and Ways &: Means of Redress were immediately appointed; the unanimous Resolutions made upon the Resolves & Request for Advice from the County of Suffolk I doubt not gave You & all the Friends of Liberty the high est Pleasure. 2 The Non Importation &: Non Consumption Agree-
