October 9, 1774 165 Lace—his Pulpit was Velvet and Gold. The Altar Piece was very rich—little Images and Crucifixes about—Wax Candles lighted up. But how shall I describe the Picture of our Saviour in a Frame of Marble over the Altar at full Length upon the Cross, in the Agonies, and the Blood dropping and streaming from his Wounds. The Musick consisting of an organ, and a Choir of singers, went all the Afternoon, excepting sermon Time, and the Assembly chant ed—most sweetly and exquisitely. Here is every Thing which can lay hold of the Eye, Ear, and Im agination. Every Thing which can charm and bewitch the simple and ignorant. I wonder how Luther ever broke the spell. Adieu. John Adams RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:166-67. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear [October 9, 1774] I wrote you per James, which I fancy you are this Moment Sun day 10 oClock AM receiving. On seeing him return alone You will be doubtless apprehensive of bad News, but on opening my Letters will be convinced of the Contrary. Just the reverse happened to me yesterday, while in Congress. Our Servant call’d on Me with a Large Letter by the post from J. Webb. I opened it in haste, and with pleas ure saw a long Letter inclosed, wrote in Your hand, my heart beat with Joy at the sight, and before I had Time to unfold the Cover suggested to Me that You were Now greatly recover’d, if not, quite well, or You could not write so much, & so well. Mr. Mitchel, and You write so nearly alike that It is not easy to distinguish—in a Word it was a Narration of his Tour to the Northward, agreeable enough at any other Time & not disagreeable in itself then, but in the disappointment it occasioned. I left home, the 22d of last August, it is now the 9th of October—but my Letter by Jemmy will shew You the Situation of my mind, no way releived I can assure You, from its anxiety, by the increasing that, which first Occasioned it—A Total Si lence in you, and the Family & consequently an absolute uncertainty as to the State of your Health. I have nothing New to write worth sending this distance. The proceedings of the Congress are carried on slow and I fear will detain Us here through this Month. My kind & affectionate Regards to Hannah, Sally &: Jesse &c &c shall add to this if Time & Matter for Writing offer. I am My Dear wishing You Health and felicity. Your Affectionate Husband Silas Deane RC (CtHi).
