October 10, 1774 167 sential to the happiness of every free State, and without which, Life, Liberty & property are rendered totally insecure. These Sir, being certain consequences which must naturally result from the late acts of Parliament relative to America in general, &: the Government of Massachusetts Bay in particular, is it to be wonder’d at, I repeat, that Men who wish to avert the impending blow, should attempt to oppose it in its progress, or prepare for their defence, if it cannot be diverted? Surely I may be allowed to answer in the nega tive; & give me leave to add, as my opinion, that more blood will be spilt on this occasion (if the Ministry are determined to push matters to extremity) than history has ever yet furnished instances of in the annals of North America; and such a vital wound given to the peace of this great Country, as time itself cannot cure or eradicate the re membrance of. But I have done. I was involuntarily led into a short discussion of this subject by your remarks on the conduct of the Boston People; & your opinion of their wishes to set up for independency. I am as well satisfied, as 1 can be of my existence, that no such thing is desired by any thinking man in all North America; on the contrary, that it is the ardent wish of the warmest advocates for liberty, that peace &: tranquility, upon constitutional grounds, may be restored, & the hor rors of civil discord prevented. I am very glad to hear that my friend Stewart was well when you left London; I have not had a letter from him these five years, nor heard of him, I think, for two. I wish you had mentioned his em ployment. Poor Mercer! I often hear from him; much cause has he, I fear, to lament his having fallen into the accursed state of attend ance & dependance. I remain with very great esteem, Dr. Sir, Your most Obedt. Servt. G. Washington LB (DLC) . Addressed: "To Capt. Robert McKenzie.” 1 Mackenzie’s letter is in the Washington Papers, DLC, and is printed in Stanislaus M. Hamilton, ed„ Letters to Washington and Accompanying Papers; Published by the Society of the Colonial Dames of America, 5 vols. (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1898-1902) , 5:49-50. Mackenzie, a captain in Washington’s Virginia regiment during the French and Indian War, had obtained a lieutenant’s commission in the Forty-third Regiment of Foot, which was among the British units stationed at Boston. John Adams’ Diary 1774 Monday. Octr. 10th. The Deliberations of the Congress, are spun out to an immeasura ble Length. There is so much Wit, Sense, Learning, Acuteness, Sub- tilty, Eloquence, &c. among fifty Gentlemen, each of whom has been
