184 October 12, 1774 Samuel Ward’s Notes for a Speech in Congress Mr. President [October 12, 1774] 1 The Question before you is certainly of the utmost Importance, in the Solution of it are involved the Happiness or Misery not only of the present Generation of Americans but of Millions yet unborn. I must therefore beg your Permission to enter largely into the Subject. 2 The Parliamt. ought not to be allowed the Regulation of our Trade for many Reasons. 1st. Because We having no Voice in their Election they are not our Representative]s & consequently have no Rights to make Laws for Us in any Case whatsoever. To put this Matter in a clear Point of View it is necessary to recur to the Origin of Parliaments. It is now universally allowed that all good Government is founded in Compact. Mankind prompted to Society by Nature (to associate) & finding they could not procure or enjoy the necessaries and Conveniences of Life or defend themselves from Force & Injury in an unconnected separate State (assembled dr) formed themselves into various (Countries) some in one Country, others in another in the Infancy of Society. They directed & managed their own affairs in Person as they thought most for the common Good. In Time (the larger larger) Societies became very extensive & the Members so numerous that they became impracticable to supply the Want of this personal Direction of many public affairs. The Wisdom of our saxon Ances tors devised the best Substitute in the Power of Man to point out which was that the People should appoint & authorize certain Per sons in whose Wisdom 8c Virtue They could confide (in) to repre sent the whole Body of the Nation & in their Behalf to enact in Con junction with their Chief or King such Laws Rules 8c Ordinances as would be for the general Good of the Community. This it will be allowed was the Origin of the english Parliament. The End of their Appointment was to (Take Care of) Preservation & Promoting of the Interests 8c Happiness of whom—of their Constitu ents undoubtedly & not of the People of France Spain or Holland. 3 [. . .] of all the Benefits of an extensive 8c valuable Inheritance [conveyed?] to them from their worthy ancestors who purchased it with their Blood 8c Tresure 8c of the Fruits of their own Labours and reduce them to such a miserable State of Vassalage as to be com pelled to consume their Lives in the vilest Drudgery 8c Servitude in Order to acquire Property for their Oppressors who like true Tyrants would allow them no greater Share of the Produce of their own La bours than will be barely sufficient to preserve their miserable Beings in such a State as may qualify them for further Servitude.
