190 October 13, 1774 (2) It will remove all suspicion that we seek after independence. 3. It is necessary that it should be expressly recognized. a. Because in the great dispute between Hutchinson and the Mas sachusetts, it is left doubtful. b. Because every different house of Assembly must instruct its Agent on this essential point. c. Because a difference of sentiment will shew our weakness and may end in our disunion. d. But above all because our Bill of Rights makes this explanation indispensible. Vide—Art—bound by no Law without participation in Legislature—and exclusive Right of legislation. 2 e. These totally defeat all Regulations of Trade. Inst: Custom House and exactions there, seizures on shore, writs of assistance &c. Objections. 1st. It is said we are not authorised to give up any right and this is setting up a Right for G. B. Answer. 1. Besides the justice and policy of such a recognition; it is un avoidable when we are considering a right in connection with the par ent State. 2. It is giving G. B. no new right: but only acknowledging what she has enjoyed ever since our Colonization. 3. It is agreed on all hands that there must be some supreme con trolling power over our trade, and that this can only rest with Parlia ment. Objection II. It is said to be too dangerous, because on pretence of a Right to regulate Trade, Parliament may raise a Revenue upon us, and otherwise oppress us. Answer. 1. If we argue against the use of power because it may be abused, the argument proves too much. It strikes at all society and all government—but to a state of so ciety confidence is essential. 2. Instance the prerogative of the Crown to call an Assemby. It never may be called—yet we do not deny the prerogative. II. But here can be no room for apprehension. They exercise the right and none mean to dispute it. Our interest will be served by admitting it under restrictions (to wit) that it be conducted bona fide, with a just regard to the interest of the respec tive members of the Empire excluding every idea of taxation internal and external for the purpose of raising a revenue without our con sent. [ ] 3 our admission cannot injure us. 2. Supposing the power should be abused. Can we not remon-
