October 13, 1774 191 strate and oppose—shall we be less able hereafter to do our selves justice than at this day? Objectn. III. That this Proposition is improper in our Bill of Rights; because instead of a privilege it is a burthen. Answer. 1. It is certainly improper in the order it stands; it ought to follow our claim to exclusive legislation by way of edification and it will then be considered. Object. IV. It may be said that because we admit the authority of Parliament in this instance, it may be [asserted?], as a proof of their power in all cases. Answer. There is a most manifest distinction. 1. In cases of internal policy and taxation our legislatures are competent—have enjoyed such jurisdictions. They are secured by Charter—not so with respect to trade. 2. The Parliamentary authority over our trade was co-eval with our settlement, and is considered as a compact. 3. This exhibits a line and fixed rule so much desired for ascer taining that power. Tr (NN) . 1 Although undated, these notes probably formed the basis for Duane’s remarks on October 13. John Adams’ brief summary of Duane’s arguments on this date suggests that Duane’s remarks were delivered at this time. John Adams’ Diary, October 13, 1774. See also JCC, 1:63; and Samuel Ward’s Diary, October 13, 1774. ’This paragraph refers to the fourth resolution of the declaration of rights and grievances which was adopted by Congress on October 14. JCC, 1:68-69. 3 MS blank; copyist apparently unable to decipher a sentence from Duane’s original MS notes. Robert Treat Paine’s Notes of Debates [October 13? 1774] 1 Duane. On regulating Trade. We are unable to defend our Rights &: therefore we must allow them the right. We must not argue from an abuse agt a Use. The Pari, have as good a right to regulate as if the Acts were made before we emigrated. It was before some of us did, &: the same Rule Will hold to Hen 8. ch. 37. Our Charters say we must make no Laws contrary to Laws of England, but will not the denial of this right be contrary.
