194 October 14, 1774 assuming that the document was "the first draft of the sub-committee’s report on violations of rights,” reproduced it verbatim from Adams’ printed version, retain ing even the exact double-column format used in conjunction with the final declaration of rights and grievances adopted by Congress. Despite the assumptions of Adams and Ford, this MS is in the hand of John Dickinson (see illustration) . That Dickinson did not take a seat in Congress until October 17, and that the MS is among the papers of John Adams only deepens the mystery that surrounds the document. Charles Francis Adams correctly identified it as a version of the declaration of rights and grievances, but it is certainly not the first draft of either of the great committees’ reports—the report on “rights” or the report on “violations”—which were submitted to Congress on September 22 and 24 respectively. Debate on the two reports originally began September 24, but almost immediately the delegates shifted their attention to "the means most proper to be pursued for a restoration of our rights,” consideration of which led to adoption of nonimportation and nonexportation, submission of a plan of union, and discussion of the contents of an address to the king. Not until October 12, according to the journals, did Congress resume consideration "of the rights and grievances of these colonies,” which were also deliberated the 13th. It may well be that the two original reports were not combined into the form of a single consolidated statement of grievances and rights until shortly before Congress approved the resolutions Thomson entered in the journals under the date October 14. The appearance of these resolutions under the date October 14 also raises several questions. Since it is clear from Samuel Ward’s diary and James Duane’s notes of debates that Congress continued on October 15 and 17 to discuss the grievances to be included in their list, it is certain that Thomson could not have written the journal entry for October 14 earlier than the 17th. The fact that John Adams spent all day Sunday, October 16, home “very busy in the necessary Business of putting the Proceedings of the Congress into Order,” suggests that he may well have spent the day revising the declaration of rights and grievances. John Adams’ Diary, October 16, 1774. If this were the case, it would not be surprising that Dickinson gave Adams this draft "Heads of Grievances and Rights,” even if it were not strictly speaking Dickinson’s creation and may indeed have been only a copy he was permitted to make from another draft. Of course, if the document did come into Adams’ possession in this manner, it would not explain why Dickinson was privy to some of the most intimate matters before Congress when he had not yet been elected as a delegate. But perhaps this possibility is not inconsistent with what is known about The Farmer’s extraordinary fame and influence. For other evidence that Dickinson played a more prominent role at the First Continental Congress than has been previously appreciated, see Dickinson’s Draft Memorial to the Inhabitants of the Colonies, October 19-21? 1774, and his Draft Address to the King, October 22? 1774, two documents whose authorship has long been attributed to other delegates. For a recent assessment of the authorship and publication of the “Bill of Rights” and “List of Grievances,” see James H. Hutson, comp, and ed., A Decent Respect to the Opinions of Mankind: Congressional State Papers, 1774-1776 (Washington: Library of Congress, 1976), pp. 50-52. James Duane’s Notes of Debates Friday 14th October 1774. On the Resolution for Trade to qualify the [fourth] proposition. 1 S. Adams. Did not think the Claims respecting the internal policy [ ] a
