202 October 16, 1774 affecting the Colonies attended To and considered—when You add to This, The Time necessarily spent as well as Difficulty to be en countered at last, To bring Men, From infancy, habituated to differ ent modes, of Treating Subjects, perfectly to harmonize, You will set down no small portion of Our Time to this Head of Business. Our Greivances You will say are evident To all, and may be enumerated in one Day as well as in a Month,—on second Thought You will perhaps be willing to give Us longer Time on that part—For a Greivance deserving the Notice of the United Continent must not only be a real, but one so general. That a Stand must be made against it, and Our measures for redress, be persevered in, untill it is removed. To enumerate as greivances, matters of lesser Moment, would be below the dignity, 8c lessen the weight of this Continental Council, here again, We have recourse To the Statutes, the Usages, 8: Customs of both Countries to direct Us, as Well as to their, 8c Our Bill of Rights. The Measures to be pursued for, or mode of obtain ing Redress is a delicate, yet important Subject. These Three Sub jects have taken up the Cheif of Our Time. We meet at Nine, 8c set untill half past Three, then adjourn untill the Next Morning, this brings Us to Dinner at Four or afterwards, which being generally in parties, on invitation out, or at Our Lodgings concludes the Day, and though We have sat, now, Six Weeks, We have not had One day’s respite. Two Expresses from Boston, have taken up part of Our Time, by one of them I wrote largely, the substance of which You have doubteless seen. 2 The Assembly of this province met Yes terday and chose Mr. Biddle Speaker, and appointed Mr. Dickinson an additional Member, to represent this Province in Congress, so that We may expect his Company Tomorrow in Carpenters Hall. This will find You at New Haven, Next Saturday. Mr. T. Sey mour I hear is a Brother Member. Present my Compliments To him, and Tell him, that Watson of Hartford, merits the severest reproof, for printing in his paper the false, 8c scandalous paragraphs, from Rivington’s Gazette, respecting the Congress. Rivington in private Life is more infamous than Chartres, 8c in public a greater incendi ary than Clodius, yet this Stupid Watson, reprints in the Connecticut Courant the improbable Forgeries, of this most superlatively vile, re tailer of Scandal. 3 I have repeatedly admonished Watson, but to no purpose, a press in his hands, is like firebrands, Arrows, 8c Death in the hands of a Fool or Madman, and all We have to console Our selves with, is that his Weakness prevents his doing extensive mis chief. Rivington is become so detestable every where to the South ward of New York, 8c even in That City, to all, but a Ministerial Junto, that his Papers are stopp’d Universally, and his Name is used only as a Standard by which to compare whatever is mean, base, ser vile, 8c treacherous; yet this Fellow, is one of Watson’s Authors.
