October 16, 1774 203 I ask pardon, for saying so much, on this unworthy Subject, but I feel for the honor of the Colony, affected by such rascally publica tions. Connecticut stands in a reputable, and important point of View, with the other Colonies The more so as We have not been si lent on their History, and police, as well as on their other Connec tions, & their Manners. The Cause of Boston You have already seen is made by Us a Common Cause, 8c You must not be surprized at a Resolution, of all the Colonies, here represented, made Unanimous ly, to stand by, 8c support them to the last with Life, 8c Fortune, and that Resolution published on the housetop at Westminster. I hope We shall be at New Haven before the Assembly rises. It is quite un certain whither I shall be able to procure a place for Your Son, as No Mercht. in this City will give any Answer to a Question respect ing future Business untill he hears, the Report, of the doings of this Congress, but I have spoke to several kind, 8c worthy Freinds on the subject, who have promised to make thorough inquiry. I should pre fer this City, To any place on the Continent for a Lad to serve his Time in. The Manners are simple, 8c pure, and their industry and Oeconomy, exceeding any thing to be expected in so populous a City. I mean by simple 8c pure only comparatively, for here are De bauchees, Whores, 8c Rogues as well as in other places, but not so Numerous. I have spoke for Four places, 8c may possibly obtain Them, if so I can provide for You and Your Brothers Sons. I am de termined to fix a Brother, 8c Soninlaw of mine here, if possible. I pray that a Regulation of the Connecticut Militia may be attended to in earnest, much, perhaps all Depends on it there 8c throughout America. I have neither Time, nor Room to write at large, in a Word if You go on making Colonels 8cc in the Common old Way All is over as to a Militia. While all America is about to exhibit proofs of Virtue, let Those old Field Officers never more than Nominally so, at least sacrifice a Sound to a Reality. Compliments to Freinds. Yours Silas Deane [P.S.] Shew this to Col. Saltonstall, 8c others as You please. 4 RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1973) . 1 Thomas Mumford (1728-99), Groton, Conn., merchant, representative to the Connecticut Assembly, and agent for the Secret Committee of Congress in 1776. James G. Mumford, Mumford Memoirs (Boston: Updike, Merrymount Press, 1900) , pp. 142-50. a The Suffolk Resolves, delivered to Congress September 17, and the Boston Committee’s September 29 letter expressing alarm at British fortification of Boston, laid before Congress October 6. JCC, 1:31, 55. 8 Deane is probably referring to Rivington’s allegation “that the Congress have not yet’ been able to agree on any point.” Rivington’s New-York Gazetteer . . ., October 6, 1774; and Connecticut Courant, and Hartford Weekly Intelligencer, October 10, 1774. ‘Gurdon Saltonstall, Jr., was Deane’s father-in-law.
