204 October 16, 1774 George Read to Gertrude Read My dear Gitty Phila. 16th Octr. 1774 It is now brot. to Sunday Morning again & no certainty yet of the time I am to return to you. The Virginians give out that they will go off this day Week, but 1 doubt the business before us will not be in that State it ought by that time. Mrs. Biddle left this on Friday and that Evening her Husband was made Speaker of the House of Assembly of this Province. I have not seen him since. I am told the Chair went A begging. Galloway was named twice or Thrice to it. John Morton of Chester County once. Mr. Dickinson once. Galloway & Dickinson excused themselves for want of health & unexpectedly A Member for Northampton County got up and prefaced his Motion very well, as it is said, taking Notice of the difficulties the House were under and said that he had A per son in his Eye who had both Health and abilities equal to the Service and as soon as he named Mr. Biddle the House were in an Uproar, refused to hear any apology from him 8c as many as could lay hold of him did and forced him into the Chair—on a unanimous Vote. 1 Tho I am pleased with the distinction that is paid him—I am afraid it will be prejudicial to his Interest. I dined at the Governor’s yesterday very agreeably, the Set were Mrs. Elliott from New York, Mr. Gibson 8c his Wife, Miss Oswald, John Wilcocks 8c myself—and last night I went to Club with Mr. Hamilton whom I met with at the Coffee house but our Company there was not so sprightly. I am told there are letters in Town from Boston mentioning Genl. Gage’s declining State of health, supposed to be owing to uneasiness of Mind 8c that he is now actually confined to his Bed—most persons who wish for Peace wish his recovery. It is also said that there are some Letters in A Late Vessel from Liver pool mentioning that the American Cause is gaining ground in England 8c that Hutchinson 8c Bernard will be made the Scape Goats by the Minis try. I hear of Numbers of Persons having Intermittents so that the Philadelphians must Leave boasting of the healthiness of their Town. Mr. Paca of Anapolis was seized with it yesterday. Jas Allen has it 8c others I do not now recollect—I have felt nothing of it since you left me. Eating 8c drinking distress me most. However I was moderate yesterday, the ladies were the Means of it in some Measure and the wine at the Tavern at Night was bad. All are well at Jemmy Read’s and send their love to you. I yesterday delivered my resignation in Writing of the Attorney General’s Office to the Governor when he told he wou’d Order A Commission to be made out for Jacob Moore as Mr. Rodney had strongly recommended him. Mr. McPherson came to me on Thursday and asked me to go with him to the gover nor, but I was obliged to decline it—as Moore was the person I had
