October 19, 1774 209 these Colonies by the establishment of several new Fees, for the Customs. In the next Year, the Stamp-Act was repealed, not because it was founded on an erroneous principle, but as the repealing Act recites, because “the continuance thereof would be attended with many In conveniences, and might be productive of Consequences greatly det rimental to the commercial Interests of {these Kingdoms') Great Bri tain.” In the same Year, and by the immediately following Act, it was “declared, that his Majesty in parliament, of Right had Power to bind the People of these Colonies by Statues in all Cases whatsoev er.” In the same Year, another Act was past for imposing Rates & Du ties payable in these Colonies. In this Statute the Commons avoiding the Terms of giving and granting, “humbly besought his Majesty, that it might be enacted” &c. But from a Declaration in the Pream ble that the Rates & Duties (were declared to be) were “in Lieu” of several others granted by the Statute first before mentioned, for raising a Revenue, and from some other Expressions, it (plainly) appears, that these Duties were intended for that purpose. In the next Year, 1767, an Act was made “to enable his Majesty to put the Customs and other Duties in America, under the Manage ment of Commissioners” &c And the King thereupon erected the present expensive Board of Commissioners; (with power to enter ir search Houses ire) for the express purpose “of carrying into Execu tion the several Laws relating to the Revenue &: Trade in America." The people of these Colonies, having after the Repeal of the Stamp Act; resign’d themselves to their antient unsuspecting Affec tions for their parent State, and anxious to avoid any Controversy with her, in Hopes of a favorable Alteration in Sentiments Sc Meas ures towards them, did not press their Objections against the above mention’d Statutes made subsequent to that Repeal. Administration attributing to trifling Causes, a Conduct that really proceeded from generous Motives, were encouraged in the same Year, 1767, to make a bolder Experiment on the Patience of these Colonies. By a Statute, commonly call’d the Glass, Paper ir Tea Act, made fifteen months after the Repeal of the Stamp Act, the Commons of Great Britain, resumed their former Language & again undertook to “give and grant Rates of Duties to be paid in these Colonies,” for the express purpose of “raising a Revenue, to defray the Charges of the Administration of Justice, the support of Civil Government, and defending the King’s Dominions” on this Continent. The Penalties & Forfeitures incurr’d under this Statute are to be recovered in the same Manner, with those mentioned in the foregoing Acts.
