October 19, 1774 217 upon a Review of past Events, be persuaded that they, the Defend ers of true Religion, & the Assertors of the {Liberties of) Rights of Mankind, will take part against their affectionate protestant Colo nists, in Favor of our open and their own secret Enemies whose In trigues for several Years past, have been wholly exercis’d in Sapping the Foundations of civil & religious Liberty. Another Reason that engaged Us to prefer the {present) commer cial Mode of opposition, arose from an Assurance that this Mode will prove efficacious, if it be persisted in with Fidelity & Virtue; and that your Conduct will be influenc’d by these laudable Principles cannot be questioned. Your own Salvation, and that of your posterity now depends upon Yourselves. You have already shewn {a due sense of the Blessings for which You are strugglin [g]) that you entertain a proper sense of the Injuries offered to you, & a just sense of the Blessings You are striving to retain. Against the temporary Incon veniences You may suffer from a Stoppage of Trade, You will weigh in the opposite Ballance, the endless Miseries You 8c your Descen dants must endure from an established arbitrary Power. You will not forget the {Glory) Honour of your Country, that must {inevitably) from your Behaviour take its title in the Estimation of the World, to Glory or to shame; and You will, with the deepest Attention reflect, that if the peaceable Mode of Opposition recommended by Us, be broken and rendered ineffectual, as your cruel 8c haughty Enemies, from a contemptuous Opinion of your Firmness, insolently predict will be the Case, You must inevitably be {compell[ed]) reduc’d to chuse, either a more dangerous Contest, or a final and infamous Submission. {We cannot conclude this address) Motives thus cogent, arising from the emergency of your {Affairs) unhappy Condition, must ex cite your utmost Diligence 8: Zeal, to give all possible Strength 8c En ergy to the Measures calculated for your Relief. But, We think our selves bound in Duty, to observe to You, that the schemes agitated against these Colonies have been conducted with such an Excess of Fury, that it appears probable to us, that some other Acts of viol ence may be committed in the approaching Winter or next Year. We judge it therefore prudent, that You should extend your Views to those Events that may happen and be in every Respect, as well pre pared as You can be for every Contingency. Above all Things, we earnestly entreat You with Devotion of Spirit, Penitence of Heart, and Amendment of Life, to humble Yourselves and implore the {Assistance) Favor of Almighty God: 8c We fervently beseech his di vine Goodness to take You into his gracious Protection. MS (PHi) . In the hand o£ John Dickinson. This 17-page draft, heavily interlined and containing numerous marginal notes that survived in the final memorial adopted October 21, is in the R. R. Logan Collection of Dickinson papers at PHi
