220 October 19, 1774 (see illustrations) . Although authorship of the “Memorial to the Inhabitants of the Colonies” has traditionally been assigned to Richard Henry Lee, this MS demonstrates that Dickinson was the author of the memorial that Congress ap proved. No other contemporary evidence bearing upon the authorship of this document has been found. As in the case of nearly all the public papers prepared in committees of Congress, the earliest known accounts pertaining to individual authorship date from the early 19th century. Thus until this collection of Dickin son’s papers became available in 1969, historians were forced to rely upon accounts reconstructed from memory by Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, and John Jay written during the years 1805 to 1823. It is of particular interest that most of these accounts have a common origin in an 1805 query William Wirt directed to Thomas Jefferson. In response to Wirt’s plea for information on Patrick Henry, whose biography Wirt planned to write, Jefferson penned an account which covered some matters that transpired in September and October 1774, although he had not been a delegate to the first Congress. Wirt incorporated Jefferson’s comments into his Sketches of the Life and Character of Patrick Henry (Philadel phia: James Webster, 1817), pp. 108-9, and until recent years these were frequent ly relied upon by students of the Revolution, notwithstanding the fact that Jeffer son had obtained his information at second hand, and because of this stated that he ought not to be quoted on the subject of “the addresses prepared for Congress by Henry and Lee.” PMHB, 34 (October 1910) : 406. When John Adams read Wirt’s study of Henry, he immediately wrote to Jay, questioning Wirt’s account of the authorship of the various petitions and addresses of Congress. Jay’s response, which was vague, apologetic in tone, and based chiefly on the printed journals of Congress, confirmed only that he was the author of the address to the people of Great Britain. William Jay, The Life of John Jay: with Selections from His Correspondence and Miscellaneous Papers, 2 vols. (New York: J. & J. Harper, 1833) , 2:378-84. But in an account he wrote in 1823 to the grandson of Richard Henry Lee, in answer to a question about Lee’s role as a member of “the three leading committees appointed by the Congress of 1774,” Jay was more explicit, although he again insisted that his recollection was "not distinct.” “It was agreed, in the committee,” Jay recalled, “that Mr. Lee should prepare a draught of the proposed memorial [“to the people of British America"], which was the first, both in order and importance; and that I should prepare a draught of the proposed address to the people of Great Britain, both of which were done accordingly. On the 18th October, the address to the people of Great Britain was reported to Congress. . . . On the 19th October, the committee reported a draught of a memorial to the inhabitants of the British colonies. ... I have always believed that this memorial was written by Mr. Lee, nor have any reasons to doubt it, come to my knowledge.” Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee . . ., 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H. C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825) , 1:271. That Dickinson did not take his seat in Congress until October 17 only deepens the mystery about when and under what circumstances this document came to be drafted. Since so little time was available to compose such a long draft, one might conclude that Dickinson immediately set to work on his version to offer as an alternate to the committee’s original draft when it was reported and ordered to lie on the table October 19. As a consequence of the debate on the memorial on the 20th, he may then have been asked to complete his draft to rescue the delegates from an impasse. In any case, this was undoubtedly the document that was “gone through and debated by paragraphs” and approved the 21st. Whatever the exact circumstances, which must remain conjectural, and notwithstanding the fact that the journals indicate that Lee, Jay, and William Livingston were the sole members of the committee appointed to draft both the address to the people of Great Britain and the memorial to the people of British America, the testimony of this
