October 20, 1774 221 draft speaks clearly in behalf of Dickinson’s authorship of the latter memorial. Whether he built his work upon the committee’s reported draft or began fresh to compose an essentially new document cannot be determined, but it is possible that on this point there is a parallel to the joint contributions of Dickinson and Thomas Jefferson in drafting the “Declaration of the Causes and Necessity for Taking up Arms” the following July, for which see the suggestive comments of Julian P. Boyd in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) , 1:190-92. ’The last 16 words of this sentence were omitted in the final version. JCC, 1:92. “This brief paragraph was omitted in the final version. JCC, 1:94. 3 Footnoted and placed in the margin of MS, as were the dates added at the end of the following two paragraphs. 4 Thus in the MS and printed "original” in the early editions of Extracts from the Votes and Proceedings of the American Continental Congress, but the word "origin” was subsequently used in various 1774 printings of the Journal of the Proceedings of the Congress, Held at Philadelphia, September 5, 1774. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 19, 1774] 19th. Met, read the Memorial to the Americans. MS (RHi) . John Adams’ Diary 1774 Thursday Octr. 20. Dined with the whole Congress at the City Tavern, at the Invita tion of the House of Representatives of the Province of Pensylvania, the whole House dined with Us, making near 100 Guests in the whole—a most elegant Entertainment. 1 A Sentiment was given, “May the Sword of the Parent never be Stain’d with the Blood of her Children.” Two or 3 broadbrims, over against me at Table—one of em said this is not a Toast but a Prayer, come let us join in it—and they took their Glasses accordingly. MS (MHi) . Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 2:155. ’Robert Treat Paine recorded his attendance at this dinner in his diary for this day: “Dind at City Tavern with the Congress, they being Invited by the House of Assembly of this Province, a very Elegant Entertainment.” MHi. George Washing ton’s diary account for the 20th is similar: “Dind at the New Tavern with the Pensa. Assembly. Went to the Ball afterwards.” Washington, Diaries (Fitzpatrick) , 2:168. Samuel Ward’s Diary [October 20, 1774] 20th. Met, considered the Memorial and signed the Association. 1
