224 October 21, 1774 the true Spirit of English liberty. The Religion of Rome bloody Idol atrous & strongly inimical to Protestantism will ever stimulate its Votarys to attempts fatal to those who differ from them in Religious 8c Civil Policy. Strongly impressed with these Sentiments we chear- fully contributed our blood 8c treasure to the conquest of that coun try in the late war confident that we should thereby change a danger ous 8c hostile neighbour into a British Province Sc strengthen the Protestant interest & the cause of Liberty. Our amazement therefore is indeed extreme to see these well-grounded hopes disappointed, & that Popery & the Laws of France have found Establishment & Pa tronage in a British Parliament. The local extent assigned for the Operation of this fatal scheme of Goverment is an additional Circum stance to make it dangerous & alarming to the ancient British Colo- nys. Thus encompassed with Injurys apprehensions 8c Dangers, your faithfull American Subjects look up to your Majesty for Assistance 8c Releif. We most earnestly entreat you Royal Sire to interpose your Royal Influence to procure us Redress of these our Greivances. We are distressed with the most Poignant feelings, by that prospect which the present System adopted by Parliament holds up to our view. Unworthy submission, or unjust Resistance are Equally far from us 8c abhorrent to our Ideas. Either would render unfit objects of yr. Majestys Paternal regards—Drive us not to Despair—Urge us not to the last extremity most gracious Sovereign. We can never sub mit to the Encroachments of the British Parliament. Compell us not therefore to that Situation in which All is Gloom 8c horror, 8c from whence no Ray of Peace or Comfort can be discern’d. All we ask is that we may be restored to that State in which America stood at the Close of the last War. We desire no new privileges. Restore us royal Sir our Ancient 8c indubitable rights 8c we are contented. We shall then return with Joy 8c Gladness to that friendly intercourse 8c mu tually beneficial commerce so much to be desired by the mother Country 8c the Colonys, but which has of late been so unhappily dis turbed. Thus restored to peace 8c tranquility we shall bless the royal hand that was held forth for our Deliverance. We shall rejoice under the Dominion of a Prince to whom Allegiance Affection 8c Gratitude shall concur to bind us by their most sacred ties. Your Majestys faithfull Americans will ever be ready to offer their blood 8c treasure to Support your Majestys illustrious house. And we trust that no length of Time no distance of Situation or change of Circumstances shall ever efface the remembrance of that Signal interposition of yr. Majesty upon which we rely for Deliverance from the wicked At tempts of those Ministers whose Designs are fatal to the true inter ests of yr. Majesty 8c destructive to all that is dear to us.
