October 21, 1774 225 MS (PPL) . In the hand of Patrick Henry. 3 On October 1, 1774, Congress resolved to prepare an address to the king, and for that purpose appointed a committee consisting of Richard Henry Lee, John Adams, Thomas Johnson, Patrick Henry, and John Rutledge. The next week. Congress devoted three days to debating instructions to the committee, but subse quently other matters intruded to dominate the work of the delegates, and another two weeks elapsed before Congress returned to the subject. On October 21 a draft address to the king was read and debated in Congress, but when it met a cool reception the document was recommitted and John Dickinson was added to the committee. On the 24th the enlarged committee reported another draft address, which was "debated by paragraphs . . . approved and ordered to be engrossed” the following day, and two engrossed copies were signed by the delegates on the 26th. JCC, 1:53-55, 102-4, 113. For a discussion of the work of the committee and the date and authorship of the three drafts of the address that survive, see Edwin Wolf 2d, “The Authorship of the 1774 Address to the King Restudied,” WMQ 22 (April 1965) : 194-99. See also Richard Henry Lee’s Draft Address to the King, October 21? 1774; and John Dickinson’s Draft Address to the King, October 22? 1774. a In the final version transmitted to England, this list of objectionable acts was revised and expanded to a 14-paragraph catalog of grievances. Wolf, “Authorship,” pp. 203, 220-21. 3 The substance of this paragraph is contained in the resolution adopted by Congress October 3. JCC, 1:53-54. Richard Henry Lee’s Draft Address to the King [October 21? 1774] 1 May it please your most excellent Majesty Graciously to permit your dutiful Subjects the Representatives of your loyal People in North America to approach the Throne and humbly to entreat the royal attention to those Grievances, which have for ten years past, with increasing violence threatned danger and ruin to Antient Constitutional Rights which your Majesties faithful Subjects in this western world have long enjoyed under your Majesties royal Progenetors. The history of these Colonies, may it please your Majesty, is one continued proof of unshaken loyalty to their Sovereigns, of unremitting zeal for the glory and prosperity of Great Britain, to which, their active labors have much contributed. No rebellions, no traiterous dissaffections have ever disgraced their story, or disturbed the repose of the Mother Country. These truths may sufficiently prove to your Majesty, that nothing less than immi nent dangers and most oppressive Grievances could now move a numerous people of such steady and persevering Loyalty. Such, may it please your Majesty, are certain Acts of your British Parliament passed in the 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th & years of your Majesties reign, which destroy every idea of property in your Majesties Ameri can dominions, and in many cases deprive the Subject of his antient, equitable, and legal trial by Jury, and unncessarily endanger his life,
