240 October 24, 1774 for You, to watch over your Wellfare, & to direct in what quantity and manner, your Money shall be taken from you? No. The Powers of making Laws for you, are lodg’d in the Governor 8c Council, all of them dependant upon 8c removable at the Pleasure of a Minister. Be sides, by another late Statute, You are subjected to Excise Regula tions, the Horror 8c detestation of all free States, thus wresting your property from You by the most odious of Taxes {These are the in sulting Favors of a Ministry) and in the very Act altering your Gov ernment, and intended to flatter You, it is expressly declared that You “Yourselves within your several Towns 8c Districts shall not as sess, levy, 8c apply any Rates 8c Taxes within such Towns 8c Districts respectively, but for the inferior purposes of making Roads, & erect ing ir repairing public Buildings, or for other local Conveniences.” Why this degrading Distinction? Ought not the honestly acquired property of Canadians to be as sacred as that of Britons 8c therefore dependant on their own voluntary Gifts 8c Grants? Have they not Sense enough to (manage) attend to other public Affairs than gath ering Stones from one Place, 8c piling them up in another? Unhappy People! Who are not only injured but insulted; not only Ruin’d by your oppressors but trampled under their Feet; and after all derid- ingly told, that the whole is for your Good. Nay more! With such a superlative Contempt of your Understanding 8c Spirit, has an inso lent Ministry presumed to think of you our respectable [. . .] fellow subjects, as firmly to persuade themselves, that your Gratitude for the Injuries 8c Insults they have recently offer’d to You, will engage You to take up arms, 8c render yourselves the ridicule 8c Detestation of the World, by becoming poor Tools in their Hands, to assist them in taking that Freedom from Us, which they have treacherously de nied to You; the unavoidable Consequence of which Attempt, if successful, would be the Extinction of all hope of You or your pos terity being ever restored to Freedom. What would your Countryman the immortal Montesquieu, {an Honor not only to his Nation but to Human Nature, say, were he living) have said to such a Plan of Domination? Hear his Words with an Intenseness of Thought suited to the {Magnitude) Impor tance of the Subject. “In a free State, every Man, who is supposed a free Agent ought to be concern’d in his own Government: so the leg islative should reside in the whole Body of the People—or their Representatives.” “The political Liberty of the subject is a Tranquil ity of Mind, arising from the opinion each person has of his Safety. In order to have this Liberty, it is requisite the Government be so constituted, as that one Man need not be afraid of another. When the power of making Laws and the power of executing them are united in the same persons, or in the same Body of Magistrates, there can be no Liberty, because Apprehensions may arise, least the
