242 October 24, 1774 conquered into Liberty, if you act as you ought. This Work is not of Man. You are a small People, compared to those whose open arms invite You into Fellowship. {They are at Your Doors. You must inevitably be their Friends or their Enemies. They are at Your Doors. Their Hostility must be incessant, unaltered, not to be guard ed against. Great Britain is at a very [great] Distance. Her Fleets & Armies. The Happiness of a People inevitably depend on their abili ty ir their Spirit to assert it wanted to complete striving of) You may make them your unalterable Friends. For their own Sakes, they nev er will desert or betray you. The Injuries of Boston, have rous’d ev ery Colony to an Association, from Nova Scotia to Georgia. You are the only Link wanting to complete the bright 8c strong Chain of Union. Nature (intended you for the [. . .]) has join’d your Coun try to theirs. Do You join Your politicial Interests. Be assured, that the Happiness of a People inevitably depends on their Liberty, 8c their Spirit to assert it. The value 8c Extent of the {Blessin[gs]) ad vantages tendered to You are immense. Heaven grant, You may not discover them to be Blessings, as the unwise generally do, after they have bid an eternal Adieu.” {Be not alarm’d with false Fears of Dif ferences in religious Sentiments. The united Body of Swiss Cantons is happily composed of Roman Catholic & Protestant States, ir defy the World to hurt them.) We are too well acquainted with the Liberality of Sentiment dis tinguishing your Nation, to imagine, that Difference of Religon will prejudice You against a hearty Amity with Us. 6 You know that the transcendent Nature of Freedom elevates those who unite in her Cause, above all such low-minded Infirmities. The Swiss Cantons furnish a memorable proof of this Truth. Their union is compos’d of Roman catholic 8c protestant States, living in the utmost Concord 8c Peace with one another and thereby enabled ever since they bravely vindicated their Freedoms, to defy and defeat every Tyrant that has invaded them. We know, there are among You, 8c among all Societies, Men who prefer their own Interest to the Welfare of their Country. The Tem per of such selfish persons renders them incredibly active in oppos ing all public spirited Measures, from an Expectation of being well rewarded for their sordid Industry, by their Superiors to whom those Measures are displeasing. 7 We doubt not, but these Men will throw in your Way every Objection 8c Difficulty, their partial Aims can forge or form. But We address the Body of the Canadian People, on a subject of the last Importance, not to one or another Class or Rank among them, but to the whole. You will therefore, We doubt not, be upon your Guard against those, who by their offices 8c Connections are led to pursue private Interests at the Expence of the general. All their glosses 8c Calumnies cannot depreciate with sensible 8c honest
