October 24, 1774 243 Men, the laudable Cause in which We are already engaged, and re quest You to share. This Our Invitation asks You not to commence Acts of Hostility against the Government of our Common Sovereign. It is only that You will consult your own Glory & Welfare, and not suffer Your selves to be enveigled or intimidated by infamous Ministers so far as to become their Instruments, and plunge your Swords into our inno cent Bosoms, that ardently wish You every kind of Liberty 8c Felici ty, and will rejoice to embrace You a loving Brethren in one social Band, founded on the generous Principles of equal Liberty, & ce mented by such an Exchange of endearing Offices as to render it perpetual. In Order to complete this highly desireable Union, We submit to your Consideration, whether it may not be expedient for You to meet together in your several Towns 8c Districts 8c {chuse Representatives') elect Deputies, who afterwards meeting in a prov incial Congress, may chuse Delegates to represent your Province in the Continental Congress to be held at Philadelphia {in the Province of Pennsylvania) on the Day of 1775. In the present Congress beginning on the fifth Day of the last Month, and continued by adjournments to this Day, it has been with universal Pleasure and an unanimous Vote resolved, that You should be invited to accede to our Confederation, which has no oth er Objects, than the perfect Security of the natural 8c civil Rights of all the constituent Members according to their respective Circum stances, and the Preservation of a happy 8c lasting Connection with Great Britain on the great, & salutary & constitutional Principles here in before mentioned. For effecting these Purposes, We have ad drest an humble 8c loyal Petition to his Majesty, praying Relief of our Grievances; and have associated to stop all Importations from Great Britain 8c Ireland after the first Day of next December, 8c all Exportations to those Kingdoms 8c the West Indies, after the tenth Day of next September, unless the said Grievances are redrest. That Almighty God may incline your Minds to approve our {just) equitable 8c necessary Measures, to add yourselves to Us, to put your Fate whenever You suffer Injuries you are determined to oppose not on the small Force of your single province, but on the consolidated Powers of North America, and may grartt to our joint Exertions an Event happy as our Cause is just, is the {sincere ir) fervent Prayer of Us your sincere 8c affectionate Friends 8c Fellow Subjects. MS (PPL). In the hand of John Dickinson. 1 Congress resolved to prepare an address to the people of Quebec on October 21 and for that purpose appointed a committee consisting of Thomas Cushing, Richard Henry Lee, and John Dickinson. On October 24 the committee reported a draft, which was debated and recommitted, and on the 26th reported a second S79-852 0 - 77 - 13 Vol. 1
