October 26, 1774 247 Thomas Lynch to Ralph Izard Dear Sir: Philadelphia, October 26, 1774. On my arrival here, I wrote you 1 the occasion of it. I now have the pleasure of enclosing to you a pamphlet, which contains the result. 2 There remains only an address to the Canadians and the pe tition to the King, to complete all our works, and these will be soon printed in England; should they reach you abroad, please consider whether their being translated into French and Dutch, may not have a good effect, as we shall want supplies of woollens and other goods from them, in case our mother country, (as it is called,) continues her oppression. The New England men, continue a behavior truly heroic. Without rashness, or any tumultuous proceedings that belong to mobs, they oppose a steady, manly, cool and regular conduct, neither declining nor precipitating war. I saw a gentleman a few days ago, who was at Cambridge, when the men who had met to oblige the councillors and judges to resign their offices, received intelligence that Gage was marching his little army to attack them. He declares that this news occasioned not the least appearance of hurry or confusion. The men who were armed, prepared to receive their enemy; the unarmed, hasted home, and brought their arms. Their numbers being but little superior, shows they will not decline an equal combat. If so, where is England to find an army to encounter two hundred thousand of these same New Englanders, besides at least five hundred thousand others, in the rest of America, who have solemnly engaged in the same cause. I think I mentioned a little speech, made by an Assemblyman, (it is said of Virginia.) “I will raise and support, one thousand men at my expense, as long as you shall want them, and march at their head, wherever you direct.” There are many such men in America. 3 I remember to have heard, that Amherst had told the King, that he would undertake to march five thousand men, from one end of the continent to the other, notwithstanding the opposition of all the inhabitants. If the story is true, his successor seems quite of a contra ry opinion. Indeed, if the former took up that idea from the provin cials, he will consider an army, formed out of the dregs of the peo ple, as a very different thing from the yeomen of the country, acting voluntarily in the immediate defence of their liberty and property. I enclose a newspaper, to show the temper of the people of Mary land, as a specimen of that which prevails in all the colonies. In short, I think you may venture to pronounce that America, though most sincerely attached to England and desirous of a perpetual un ion, will, by force only, be brought to admit of domination; and they may learn from the case of Corsica what force to apply to America,
