250 October 27, 1774 John Dickinson to Arthur Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia October 27th 1774 Yesterday the Congress broke up. You will immediately know their proceedings from Publications. Colonists have now taken such Ground, that Great Britain must relax, or inevitably involve herself in a Civil War, likely in all human probability to overwhelm her with a Weight of Calamities, in Com parison of which “plus quam civilia bella,” the Contentions, between the Houses of York 8c Lancaster, or the Distractions of the last Cen tury were gentle Misfortunes. A determined & unanimous Resolution animates this Continent, firmly & faithfully to support the Common Cause, to the utmost Ex tremity, in this great Sturggle for the Blessing of Liberty, that alone can render Life worth holding. I grieve for the Fate of a brave & generous Nation plung’d by a few profligate Men, into such Scenes of unmerited & inglorious Dis tress. Let her rouse her natural, noble Spirit—be true to herself, 8c of course be true to Us. Let her not so far adopt the base yet Visionary Schemes of Fools 8c Knaves, that She may think her Dignity con cern’d to maintain the projects of those, whom her Justice com mands her to punish. Give us the Butes, Mansfields, Norths, Bernards 8c Hutchinsons 8cc whose Falsehoods and Misrepresentations, have enflamed the People—Call not their Cause, the Cause of Great Britain—Throw all Errors 8c occasions of Dissatisfaction on their guilty heads. A new Ministry of such a Character, that England 8c America both can trust, may do great Things; Especially if a considerable Change be made at the next general Election. Why should Nations meet with hostile Eyes, because Villains 8c Ideots have acted like Villains 8c Ideots? I wish for peace ardently; but must say, delightful as it is, it will come more grateful by being unexpected. The first Act of Violence on the Part of Administration in America, or the Attempt to rein force General Gage this Winter or next Year, will put the whole Continent in arms from Nova Scotia to Georgia. May God of his infinite Mercy grant a happy Event to these af flicting Agitations. [P.S.] It is suspected here, that a Design is regularly prosecuted by the Ministry, to make his Majesty dethrone himself, by the Calami ties 8c Convulsions his Reign is likely to bring on his whole People. Please to inform Me, what is thought on this Point in England. RC (MH). In Dickinson’s hand, though not signed.
