252 October 28, 1774 As to your Complaint against an Expression in a late Letter, know, Dear Sir, I wrote in Agonies of Mind for my Brethren in Boston. 1 I trembled, least something might have happened, which I could not only forgive but applaud, but which might have been ea gerly & basely seiz’d by others, as a Pretence for deserting them. This was the sense of Men in Philadelphia the most devoted to them. And under this Apprehension, We agreed to make use of the strong est Expressions. May the Father of Mercies bestow every Blessing upon You, is the fervent Prayer of, my dear Sir, your faithful 8c af fectionate Friend John Dickinson RC (MHi). ‘Dickinson’s letter to Quincy of June 20, 1774, contained a warning: “Nothing can throw us into a pernicious confusion, but one Colony’s breaking the line of opposition, by advancing too hastily before the rest. The one which dares to betray the common cause, by rushing forward, contrary to the maxims of discipline established by common sense, and the experience of ages, will inevitably and utterly perish.’’ Quincy’s "complaint” was registered in his August 20 letter written from Boston, in which he concluded: “I see no reason to apprehend our advancing before our brethren, unless the plans they should adopt should very evidently be too languid and spiritless to give any rational hopes of safety to us, in our adherence to them.” Both letters are printed in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:434, 725-26. Edward Rutledge to Ralph Izard My Dear Sir: Chester, October 29, 1774 A moment’s leisure gives me an opportunity of communicating to you the business we have transacted, which is briefly this. We have formed a bill of Rights, by which we insist, that no power on earth has a right to intermeddle with our internal polity; but that the Par liament of Great Britain, has, of necessity, a right to regulate trade. We have framed a list of grievances, and have formed an associa tion, not to import any goods, &c., either from Great Britain or Ire land, until such grievances, as have arisen since the year ’63, and are enumerated in such association, shall be redressed. We have further resolved, that, “if a repeal of those laws, by which we are oppressed, does not take place, anterior to the 10th of September next, we will not export any commodity to Great Britain, Ireland or the West In dies, except rice to Europe.” 1 It will take more wisdom than I am master of, to reconcile this plan to reason; for, upon the most mature deliberation, I disapprove of it. I have repeatedly held forth my testimony against it, as inexpe dient and weak. I do not mean the bill of Rights; that I think well of, and offered it every support in my power: for I hold it as a clear truth, that they have no right to interfere in the regulation of our in-
