October 29, 1774 253 ternal polity, where we have a power within ourselves that is equal to the exigencies of our affairs; it being as ridiculous to suppose that there could be two complete legislatures, as that there should be two superior beings. But no good reason can be urged why we should be satisfied with a restoration of such rights only, as have been violated since the year ’63, when we have as many others, as clear and indisputable, that will even then be infringed. Nor can any sufficient reason be as signed, why a non-exportation should not be put on foot immediate ly, or a non-importation delayed, until we are ripe for a non-expor tation, as, I suppose, that the more interested the people of Great Britain are in the colonies, the more property they have with us, the more desirous and industrious will they be to obtain a repeal of the oppressive acts. But I was very desirous that both of them should take place at an early day, and think a few months would have put everything to rights again. But to make the matter more absurd, we have come into a resolution not to export indigo. This, I was totally against. I proposed to stop all exportation—nothing short of that would satisfy me. I saw no reason why the inhabitants of this, and the neighboring colonies, should have full liberty to export their wheat and flour to every part of Europe, and that we should be re stricted so much in our trade; for under the statute of Charles II., we could not carry rice to any part of the world, except to England and Scotland. It is true that, by some subsequent acts, we had liberty to carry it to other parts, but these were only temporary satutes; and the one which permits it to be carried to the south of Cape Finis- terre, will expire with the present session of Parliament. Their com modities, not being enumerated, may be carried to any part of the globe. It was said, if they were in an advantageous situation, why not al lowed the use of it? The answer is ready: because equality is the ba sis of public virtue. People who are affected but in speculation, and submit to all the hardships attending it, will not shut up their ports, while their neighbors, who are the objects of ministerial vengeance, enjoy, in a great degree, the benefits of commerce. Nor is the fact true, that Great Britain will not be distressed by withholding our trade to other parts of the world, for the wealth which is acquired by such trade, must go to our enemies. But to stop the exportation of indigo, is still more foolish; it is unequal, too, between the different parts of the province. St. Helena, is not well affected; the Georgians are disaffected. How easy will it be for the people, in that part of the province, to carry their commodity to that market. Again: if they give up the planting of indigo, what can they do? They can plant nothing else but provisions, which they can never dispose of, as the West India trade will be at an end.
