254 October 29, 1774 But why stop; does it pay duty? No. It receives a bounty; it is use ful, they say, in dying. Cannot these things be procured from the French? Yes. But if they could not, why shall we distress our own people, for no other purpose, than to oblige the people of England to weave white cloth, instead of blue? I had much more to say, but have not time. However, this I must add, that, if the acts are not repealed before May, at which time we are to have a new Congress, we shall certainly go much farther; for, submission never can, nor ever shall take place. Remember me to Mrs. Izard. I am just this moment setting out for Carolina. God bless you! MS not found; reprinted from Ralph Izard, Correspondence of Mr. Ralph Izard of South Carolina, from the Year 1774 to 1804; with a Short Memoir, ed. Anne Izard Deas (New York: Charles S. Francis & Co., 1844), pp. 21-25. 1 This quotation is an accurate paraphrase of the fourth article of the Associa tion. JCC, 1:77. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell [Philadelphia. October 31, 1774.] Reports the adjournment of Congress “on Thursday last.” 1 All ranks of people here generally approve their recently published proceedings. "The Germans who compose a large part of the Inhabitants of this province are all on our side. . . . Some of our friends are under apprehension that Ad ministration will endeavour to lay hold of as many Delegates as pos sible & have them carried to England and tryed as Rebels. This induced the Congress to enter into a resolve in such cases to make re prisal. I have no fears on that head. . . .” He hopes to arrive at Ed enton in December. 2 RC (NcD, Iredell MSS) . Endorsed: "Philadelphia 31st Oct. 1774. Jos. Hewes.” The manuscript is badly damaged, but the document’s fragmentary nature was not noted when it was published in Griffith J. McRee, Life and Correspondence of James Iredell, One of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, 2 vols. (New York: D. Appleton and Co., 1857-58) , 1:227. 1 Congress adjourned on Wednesday, October 26. ’James Iredell (1751-99), North Carolina statesman and jurist, was at this time collector of the port at Edenton. DAB. Edward Rutledge to Thomas Bee [Philadelphia? October, 1774.} “I long to tell you 1 what we have done, but am prevented, from silence having been imposed upon us all by consent, the first week in congress; this, however, I may say,
