November 7, 1774 255 that the province will not be able to account for our conduct until we explain it, though it is justifiable upon the strictest principles of hon our and policy. Don’t be alarmed; we have done no mischief, though I am sure, if Mr. had had his way, we should. But you may thank your stars you sent prudent men, and I trust that the youngest is not the least so. The gentleman to whom you alluded is, if possi ble, worse than ever; more violent, more wrong-headed. 2 But I do not mean to censure others; sufficient for me if I pursue a right line, and meet with the approbation of my countrymen.” MS not found; reprinted from extract in John Sanderson, Biography of the Signers to the Declaration of Independence, 9 vols. (Philadelphia: R. W. Pomeroy, 1820-27), 3:13-14. ’Thomas Bee (1725-1812), lawyer, planter, member of the South Carolina Assembly, was subsequently a delegate to Congress, 1780-82. Bio. Dir. Cong. 3 Sanderson believed that Christopher Gadsden was the "gentleman” alluded to here—a hypothesis that seems to be confirmed by Gadsden's remarks in South Carolina Delegates’ Report to the South Carolina Provincial Congress, January 11, 1775. Joseph Galloway to Thomas Nickleson Novr. 1. 1774. Philada. To the husband of his wife’s sister, of Poole, Dorsetshire, concerned primarily with family finances. Con cludes: “As to the unfortunate Dispute between The Mother Coun try & her Colonies, I fear it is now arrived to such an Heighth that It will be with great Difficulty accommodated. Nothing has been want ing on my Part to moderate the Violent Temper of the Warm &: in discreet People here, and bring about a Reconciliation between the two Countries upon Principles of Liberty and Government. But what can one or a few Men do in so Arduous a Task. You will no Doubt see the Resolves of our Congress and their other Proceedings. I can not say I approve of them, they are too warm & indiscreet and in my Opinion have not pursued the right Path to an Accommodation. All the Violent Parts of them I strenuously opposed from Conscience & Judgment and because I was convinced they must widen the Differ ences between us.” RC (DLC) . William Hooper to Mary Hooper New York November 7. 1774. Letter to his mother expressing re gret at his inability to visit her in Boston because “the Congress
