262 November 13, i774 dant Country on the Globe, inland Seas or Lakes, and Rivers ex tending quite across the Continent in those parallels, and the West ern extremity lands Us at the very Door, of the Treasures of the East, and The South. If the Contemplation of these future events give Us pleasure every effort of Ours to ripen them if successful, in degree realizes them. This can hardly be called the pleasure of the imagination only, but rather the pleasure of anticipating great, & im portant realities, & such as are hastening on, 8c in the arrival of which, the happiness of Mankind is most deeply interested. RC (NN) . Enclosure: MS (NN) . ’John Holt, publisher of the New York Journal, had printed an extract of a letter from Montreal, dated October 9, 1774, discussing resolves adopted at a recent meeting at which Montreal’s British inhabitants had stated their abhorrence of the Quebec Act and pledged to struggle to obtain its repeal. The New York Journal; or, the General Advertiser, November 10, 1774. William Hooper to James Duane My dear Sir Philadelphia Nov. 22. 1774 After a cold disagreeable Journey I arrived here on Saturday eve ning last. I cannot leave this place without expressing my gratitude for the many Civilities I received from yourself 8c your Friends in New York. It will give me the greatest pleasure to have it in my power hereafter in Carolina or elsewhere to be useful to you or them. I find no material change in the political System of Philadelphia since I left it. The same patriotick fervor still kindles in the breasts of the Inhabitants and urges them to a strict adherence to the meas ures which the Grand Continental Congress has taught them are to produce the salvation of themselves 8c their posterity in time, and such is the faith of some of these political patients that they are will ing to extend the blessed Influence to all Eternity. God bless the Congress! Surely they were inspired! I have surprized every person with whom I have conversed with the candid representation I have made of the political Creed of the New Yorkers and their firm and steady resolution strictly to adhere to the proceedings of the Congress. They view it as a kind of Change which required the immediate and almighty interposition to effect— they call it miraculous 8c begin to augur favourably of the cause in which they are embarked from Heaven having thus signally discov ered its approbation of it in the conversion 8c reformation which it has thus worked in your Countrymen. Strange that you have been so flagrantly misrepresented. I am perfectly sincere when I say that
