November 22, 1774 263 your Province has been cruelly misrepresented—but it is a Consola tion to you that it has been by a set of men who would have treated a second Saviour in the same manner if he had encountered the li centiousness of their Religion as their politicks. I have been informed since I came here that the Pamphlet enti tled, The friendly address to the Americans ire has thro a mistaken zeal of the people been prevented from being publickly sold in this City; 1 Strange Infatuation that while we contend with enthusiastick ardor for the liberty of the press ourselves that we should with such an intolerating spirit deny it to others. It is a strange freedom that is confined to one side of a Question! Doctrines in politicks that will not bear a freedom of discussion carry with them more than a suspi cion of being erroneous, and I am confident that the world will not be so easily gulled in these as in the unquestionable mysteries of Church faith. They will take the freedom to think for themselves, 8c even to condemn what will not upon a fair dispassionate enquiry stand the test of solid reason & sound Criticism. I do not mean to in sinuate that the Pamphlet referred to has merit. I think it the most trifling performance that the publick have yet been insulted with. The Author has wrote to the passions—to inflame 8c mislead weak minds. He has conjured up the Horrors of a Civil War to affright the timid. It will at once discover the disingenuity of the Author when We find him asserting that the American contention is as to the Quantum of the Taxation not the mode of imposing it. Be that as it will, Neglect would be his greatest punishment. Let him speak in ob scurity, Persecution is what he covets. This poor son of the Church is aiming at promotion 8c he knows the dirty Channels thro which in the present administration it flows. It argues a weak mind to contend with a clergyman, it is a squabble with the other Sex. Genl Lee has prepared an answer to it which you will soon see. 2 He is on the wing for Maryland whither He is invited to observe the military maneuvers of 500 Militia lately incorporated there. They have destroyed a Cargo of Tea in So. Carolina. We leave this on Thursday. In Carolina I flatter myself I shall hear from you. Mr Hewes joins me in respectful Compts to yourself 8c [. . .] Lady 8c I am Dear Sir With sincere esteem Your most Obed Hum Sevt Will Hooper RC (NHi). 1 [Thomas Bradbury Chandler], A Friendly Address to All Reasonable Ameri cans on the Subject of Our Political Confusions . . . (New York: James Rivington, 1774). T. R. Adams, American Independence, p. 83. 2 Gen. Charles Lee’s rejoinder to Chandler was published under the title Stric tures oh a Pamphlet, Entitled, A “Friendly Address to All Reasonable Americans, on the Subject of Our Political Confusions." (Philadelphia: William and Thomas Bradford, 1774) . Ibid., pp. 94-95.
