264 December 2, 1774 Samuel Chase to James Duane Annapolis. December 2nd. 1774. Discusses the detention of an in dentured servant. “I shall not fail to communicate any Matter, which may occur here material to the public Cause. We have heard of the unexpected Dissolution of parliament (as foretold by Junius) and believe it to be a ministerial Trick to take the Nation & Opposition by Surprise. We are anxious to hear of General Carlton’s Motions in Quebec, is he arming the Canadians or not? Pray inform Me what You can learn from that Quarter, & I sollicit You with freedom to write Me every Intelligence of the least Importance, and be assured that You may communicate with entire Confidence your Thoughts to Me. . . . my most respectful Compliments to your Brethren Jay, Low, 8c Alsop.” RC (NHi) . "Duane Correspondence,” Publications of the Southern History Asso ciation 10 (September 1906) : 299-300. John Dickinson to Thomas Cushing Dear Sir, Fairhill Deer. 11th 1774 I am much oblig’d to You for the Extract You were so kind as to inclose in your late Letter; and heartily rejoice, that I can repay in some Degree the favorable Intelligence it contain’d, by informing You, that, Yesterday our House of Representatives, taking into their Consideration, the Report of the Delegates from this Province, by a Resolve in the strongest Terms, “approv’d of all Resolves 8c proceed ings of the Congress, and recommended to the good People of this province, a strict Attention to and an inviolable Observation of the Matters 8c Things contained therein.” A Ship sailing directly for Eng land, a Copy of the Resolve was immediately transmitted by her. May God Almighty look down with Mercy upon Us, 8c bring our righteous Cause to a happy Conclusion. Procrastination is Preserva tion. States acting on the Defensive, should study for Delays. It is a melancholy Employment to peruse those various Instances recorded in History, in which, the best Causes have been ruin’d by an Excess of virtuous Zeal, too hastily to promote them. I ever thought, 8c think still, that a just Reverence for the Lives of our Countrymen, should determine us at all Events to wait for a Turn of European Affairs, and of British Sentiments. Either of these may save Us [with] out an Effusion of Blood. If at last, the Choice must be the Sword, or r Submission, [then] America cannot hesitate. Please to present my Compliments to your good Family, 8c to Messrs Adams, Paine, Adams and Hancock. I am Dr. Sir, with great
