December 12, 1774 265 Truth, your very affectionate 8c very humble Servant, John Dickinson RC (PRO: C.O. 5, 118). John Adams to Edward Biddle? Dear Sir Braintree Deer. 12. 1774 I received your kind favour 16. Ulto. with great Pleasure last Week at Cambridge. 1 I rejoice at the Proofs your City, has given, of her inflexible Attachment to the public cause, and Determination to Support it. There are many Names in your List of Committee Men, which I had not the Pleasure of knowing, but there are Abilities, Vir tues, and Spirit enough, in those whom I knew very well, to secure the good Behaviour, of any Committee which could I think be cho sen in Your 8c my beloved City. The Letter to Quebec, Shall be faithfully 8c Speedily forwarded. Our Provincial Congress, and the Committee of Correspondence in Boston, have had under Consideration, various Planns, for opening a Communication, with Several Parts of that Province. You kindly inquire What We are doing or Suffering? You will See, by a Printed Pamphlet, which I will Send you as soon as it is out, what our Provincial Congress, has been doing. I.e. you will see in Part; not all. Our People, thro the Province, are every where learn ing the military Art—exercising perpetually—So that, I Suppose, if occasion should require, an Army of, Fifteen Thousand Men from this Province alone, might be brought into the Field in one Week. The Difficulties We Suffer, however for want of Law and Govern ment, are innumerable. A total Stagnation of Law, 8c Commerce al most. No Man can pay his just Debt, because he can get no Business to do, by which he can earn any Money, and if he has ever So much due to him he cant get a Shilling of it from his Debtors. We are trying by a Thousand Experiments, the Ingenuity as well as Virtue of our People. The Effects are Such as would divert you. Imagine, 400,000 People, without Government, or Law, forming themselves in Companies, for various Purposes, of Justice, Policy, 8c War. You must allow for a great deal of the ridiculous, much of the Melancholly, and Some of the Marvellous. I must not be par ticular, because my Letter, may miscarry. I have some Times wished, Since my Return, that We had fallen in, totis Viribus, with the Motion, made by Mr Ross and Seconded by Mr Galloway, that this Province Should be left to her own Discre tion, with Respect to Government and Justice, as well as Defence. 2 Our Provincial Congress had in Contemplation, Some Sublime Con-
