266 December 12, 1774 ceptions, which would in that Case have been carried rapidly into Execution. Your Account of the Generals intended Journey to Maryland gave me great Pleasure. I hope the whole Continent will, provide them selves, at this Time with Arms and Skill. No Country ought ever to be without Either. The intuitive, the holy, the decisive Spirit, mentioned in a late Phyladelphia Paper, cannot avoid recollecting at this Time, my Friend, that the Grecian Commonwealths, were the most heroic Con federacy, that ever existed. The politest, bravest, & wisest of Men. Their Sculptors, Painters, Architects, Poets, Physicians, Criticks, Historians, Phylosophers, orators, Warriors, and Statesmen, were the brightest ornaments of their whole Species, and Examples for Imita tion to all succeeding Generations. The Period of their Glory, was from the Defeat of Xerxes to the Rise of Alexander. Let Us not be enslaved, my dear Friend Either by Xerxes, or Alex ander. The Town of Boston, is like Zion in Distress—Seneca’s Virtuous Man, Struggling with Adversity. Spectaculum dignum ad quod respi- ciat Deus—Suffering amazing Loss, but determined to endure Pov erty and Death, rather than betray America and Posterity. Be pleased to present my most respectfull Compliments and grate full Acknowledgements, to Mr Dickinson, Thompson &c &c &c I have not Time to name them all—I mean almost the whole City of Philadelphia. I should have written to you, long before this, If I had not been prevented by an Inflammation in my Eyes, So violent that I have not been able to write, or read. Pray, write me, as often as possible, and let me know, how, the fourth Resolution in our Bill of Rights, is re lished and digested, among the Choice Spirits along the Continent. I had more Anxiety about that than all the rest. But I find it is ex- treamly popular here. Our Provincial Congress have approved and adopted it, in Strong Terms. They consider it, as a great Point gained. They think it has placed our Connection with G. B. on its true Principles, and that there is no danger from it to Us, and there is quite as much allowed to her, as Either Justice or Policy require. FC (MHi) . Incomplete draft in the hand of John Adams, unsigned and unad dressed. 1 Adams was probably responding to a letter from Edward Biddle, who appar ently had recently sent Adams copies of the Letter to the Inhabitants of the Province of Quebec (Philadelphia: William and Thomas Bradford, 1774). The document had been printed in Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet or, the General Advertiser, November 14, 1774. Just before Congress had adjourned, responsibility for “translating, printing, publishing & dispersing” it had been assigned to the
