December 14, 1774 267 delegates of Pennsylvania, to be assisted by the Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and New York delegates. Similarly, Biddle—with John Dickinson and Charles Thomson—had previously been appointed to a committee to oversee the printing of the Journal of the Proceedings of the Congress. Biddle, along with Joseph Galloway, had also been a member of the committee to state the rights of the colonies, and Adams’ letter implies familiarity with the work of the committee. Since Galloway was certainly not the recipient of the letter, and both Dickinson and Thomson are mentioned in it, Adams must have been writing to Biddle. JCC, 1:28, 102, 113, 122; and Adams, Works (Adams), 9:348n. 3 The motion of George Ross is not mentioned in the journals, but it was probably made during the debate on the letter from the Boston Committee of Correspondence, October 7-10, JCC, 1:57-60. Thomas Johnson, Jr., to Horatio Gates Sir. Annapolis 14 Deer. 1774. Before you left us you engaged my Promise to advise you of any Thing I might think material. 1 I have now the pleasure to inclose you the Resolutions of our provincial Convention from which you will collect our Temper. 2 You must by this Time be confirmed in the sudden Dissolution of the parliament immediately on the Scarbor ough’s getting Home and as some say caused by the Intelligence she carried. This Step from which [. . .] no certain Conclusion can be drawn of the Intention of Government with respect to America is dif ferently spoke of according to the parties Men are engaged in, their [fears?] &c. But we have lately heard this of a Vessel in Potomack that had a very short Passage from Glasgow. She brings Paquets as late as the 27 Oct. They are in Town. I have not seen them but am told Wilks is Ld Mayor, Wilks & Glynn for Midd[lese]x, Sawbridge, Bull, Oliver & Haley for London, William Lee for Southwark, and that Mr. Cruger will be in for Bristol. From all the latest Letters I have heard of, the Tide of popular Opinion is changing in favor of America, but I am afraid Governmt. will not be wise enough to re move intirely the Grounds of Jeolesy and Contention, but like Quacks in Politicks endeavour to still the present Clamour by an Adoption of temporary Expedients. The Candidates for London &c. signed a Kind of Test by which they promise their Endeav[ou]rs to shorten parliamts., exclude placemen, repeal the Boston Acts, the Act for Trial in England of those who offend in America, and I think the Quebec Bill, and it is said the Test is running pretty gener ally through England. If so England may yet enjoy a healthy Consti tution and America be restored to her Rights. I shall hope for a vir tuous independt. House of Commons &: if that is obtained that Branch I trust will not push the Scheme for a Revenue or Systematic Corruption in America. Mr. Purvia nee favoured me the other Day with some Extracts of a
