270 December 14, 1774 be disposed to make any new Attempts upon Us Nothing would so effectually prevent their taking Place as our continuing firmly United & being ever on our Guard. For these Reasons I proposed an Annual Congress. Upon the whole Our Powers, I think, are very full And I heartily wish that those of all the other Delegates may be so. For the more Uniform and full tire Powers of the several Delegates Are, the more Scope they will have for exerting their abilities in the Service of their Country. We may then debate with Freedom, resolve with Wisdom & Unanimity & execute with firmness whatever the Interest &: happiness of our Country require. If any Amendments occur to You, be kind enough to favour Me with them &: I doubt not but they will be readily Adopted. I am greived to tell You that the Distresses of those brave People of Boston increase. Many who have hitherto supported themselves are now forced to apply to the Public. May the Colonies Continue their generous Donations &: may Heaven grant them a speedy Deliv erance. Please to make my Compliments to the Speaker Mr. Biddle, Mr. Mifflin and the other Gentn. who were Delegates with Us, & to the Secy with my particular thanks for a Journal extraordinary, & present my most respectful regards to Your good Lady. I am with very great Esteem and Regard, Dear Sir Your most obedient humble Servant Sam Ward P.S. I have not had time to communicate this Intelligence to Mary land. If you think best be pleased to do it. RC (PPL) . FC (RHi) . Endorsed: "Copy To J. Dickinson Esqr. Decbr. 1774.” A revealing variation in the FC is duly noted below. 1 A reference to a circular letter from the Earl of Dartmouth to governors in America, October 19, 1774, enclosing an order in council of the same date which forbade "the Exportation from Great Britain of Gunpowder, or any sort of arms or ammunition.” Edmund B. O'Callaghan and Berthold Fernow, eds., Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of New-York, 15 vols. (Albany: Weed, Parsons and Company, 1853-87) , 8:509. 3 After “Delegates” in FC Ward added and then deleted: "being sensible of the Inconveniences of the [. . .] Instructions of the Gentn. of Virginia . . . .” This was a reference to the fact that the convention which elected the Virginia delegates to the First Congress had instructed them to confine their attention to colonial grievances against Great Britain in the period since 1763. Although other delegates also wanted to protest certain British policies adopted before then, the Virginians refused, arguing that they could not follow this course of action because “it had been agreed upon at home, not to go beyond that year [1763], as thereby, the greater odium would be thrown upon the reign of George III., which was so fatal to the peace of America.” As a result, Congress had decided on September 24 to consider only those objectionable acts of Parliament which had been passed since 1763. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:689-90; JCC, 1:23, 42; South Carolina Delegates’ Report to the Provincial Congress, January 11, 1775.
