December 14, 1774 271 Samuel Ward to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Westerly 14th Deer. 1774 As it is of the greatest Importance that every Colony should have the earliest Notice of the hostile Intentions of Administration I have enclosed You Copies of Lord Dartmouths Letter & the Order re ceived with it. 1 Our Genl. Assembly immediately ordered Copies of them to be sent to Mr. Cushing to be communicated to the provincial Congress. They then ordered the Cannon at Fort George (which was not tenable) to be sent to Providence where they will be safe and ready for Service, 200 bbls, of Powder, a proportionate quantity of Lead & Flints Sc several Pieces of brass Cannon for the Artillery Compy. were order’d to be purchased, a Major General (an officer never before chosen in the Colony) was appointed, several independ ent Companies of light Infantry Fusiliers, Hunters &c were formed, the Militia was order’d to be disciplined & the Commanding Officers empowered to march the Troops to the Assistance of any Sister Col ony. The Spirit & Ardor with which all this was done gave Me ineffa ble Pleasure and I heartily wish that the other Colonies may proceed in the same spirited Manner for I fear the last Appeal to Heaven must now be made & if We are unprepared We must be undone. The Idea of taking up Arms against Great Britain is shocking but if We must become Slaves or fly to Arms I shall not hesitate one Moment which to chuse for all the Horrors of civil War & even Death itself in every Shape is infinitely prefarable to Slavery which in one Word comprehends every Species of Distress Misery Infamy & Ruin. I have enlosed the Resolve of our Assembly upon the Report of their Delegates. The polite Notice taken of all the Gentn. of the Con gress I hope will be acceptable; You may rely upon a most punctual Adherence to the Association in this Colony. The other Copy contains the Appointment and Instructions of the new Delegates. The Power of appointing Time & Place for holding a Congress I thought absolutely necessary for the small Pox & many other Things may make it inconvenient to sett at Philadelphia. The Power of adjourning is equally necessary for it will take much Time to chuse new Members &: in the interim the Public may suffer the greatest Mischiefs &: the trifling Expence of Meeting is the only Ob jection. It was supposed by some Gentn. that if our Grievances were re dressed this Winter there would be no Necessity of another Congress. I am of a different Opinion. Many new Regulations of Commerce Manufactures &c, may be adopted for the general Good of the Colo nies and should the Ministry be inclined to make any new Attempts upon Us our being united &: on our Guard would be the most proba ble Means of preventing them. For these Reasons I proposed an an-
