276 December 28, 1774 and Horse Jockies is to be played off against the Cause of Liberty in England and America: and that no Hopes are to be left for Either but in the Sword. We are in this Province Sir, at the Brink of a civil War. Our Alva, Gage, with his fifteen Mandamous Councillors, are Shutt up in Bos ton, afraid to Stir, afraid of their own Shades, protected with a Dozen Regiments of Regular Soldiers, and strong Fortifications, in the Town, but never moving out of it. We have No Council, No House, No Legislature, No Executive. Not a Court of Justice, has Sat Since the Month of September—Not a debt can be recovered, nor a Tres pass redressed, nor a Criminal of any kind, brought to Punishment. What the Ministry will do next, is uncertain—inforce the Act for al tering our Govt, [it] cannot. All the Regiments upon the Establish ment, wd not do it—for Juries will not serve, nor Represent. Whatever Alva and his Troops may think of it, it has required great Caution and Delicacy in the Conduct of Affairs, to prevent their Destruction. For my own Part I have bent my chief Attention to prevent a Rupture, and to impress my Friends with the Impor tance of preventing it. Not that I think the Lives of 5 or 10 thousand Men, tho my own should be one of them, would not be very profita bly Spent, in obtaining a Restoration of our Liberties. But because I know, that those Lives would never go unrevenged, and it would be vain ever to hope for a Reconcilation with great Britain afterwards. Britains would not easily forgive the Destruction of their Brethren. I am absolutely certain that New England men never would that of theirs. Nor would any Part of America ever forget or forgive, the destrucion of one New England man in this Cause. The Death of 4 or 5 Persons, the most obscure, and inconsiderable that could have been found upon the Continent, on the 5th March 1770 has never yet been forgiven by any Part of America. What then would be the Consequence of a Battle in which, many Thousands must fall of the best Blood, the best Families, Fortunes, Abilities and moral Charac ters in the Country? America, never will Submit to the Claims of Parliament and Ad ministration. New England alone has 200,000 fighting Men. And all in a Militia, established by Law, not exact Soldiers, but all used to Arms. 2 FC (MHi) . 1 James Burgh (1714-75), British academician and political writer, had appar ently sent Adams a set of the first two volumes of his work, Political Disquisitions; or, an Enquiry into Public Errors, Dejects and Abuses . . ., 3 vols. (London: E. and C. Dilly, 1774-75) . ’ The final section of this document is missing.
