280 December 29, 1774 with this long disquisition but remember that you have twice pressed me to communicate my thoughts with Freedom, and I am encour aged from a Sense of duty as well as the Expectation of a rich ex change by expecting from you the same fraternal Candour. I am with great Esteem Dear Sir Your most Obedient Humble Servant Jas. Duane FC (NHi) . Tr (NHi) ; in hand of Samuel W. Jones. Tr (NN: Bancroft Collec tion) . Illegible and missing words in FC supplied from the two Trs. 1 Delegates to the Maryland Provincial Convention held at Annapolis December 8-12, 1774, had passed a resolution calling upon all inhabitants of the province between the ages of 16 and 50 to form themselves into militia companies which were designed to replace Maryland’s traditional militia system and to provide the revolutionary movement there with reliable military power in the event of an armed conflict with Great Britain. David Curtis Skaggs, Roots of Maryland Democ racy, 1753-1776 (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, Inc., 1973) , pp. 156-57. 2 A large number of Portsmouth inhabitants, prompted by a message from the Boston Committee of Correspondence reporting the coming of British regulars to garrison Fort William and Mary, stormed this stockade on December 14, 1774, and removed approximately 100 barrels of powder from it. The next evening another crowd broke into the fort and made off with about 60 small arms and 16 pieces of cannon. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1041-43, 1069-70. 3 Duane wrote the last two sentences in the margin of the FC as a substitute for his initial, less charitable view of the effect on Boston of the Boston Port Act: “This in my opinion can have no effective Object on the [. . .] Trade of the province and it may be questioned whether the Town itself with the Contributions of the Colonies & the immense Sums diffused by so great a Fleet & Army will upon the whole be very much impoverished.” ‘That is, Galloway’s Plan of Union. 3 FC torn; about six words missing. ’ FC torn; about three words missing. James Duane to Thomas Johnson My dear Sir New York 29th Decemr 1774 I have Just finished a long Letter to Mr Chase in Answer to one with which he was pleased to honour me. To avoid Repetition I have requested him to submit it to your Perusal. Addicted like you to a close Attention to the Duties of my profession I have ever avoided both from the want of Inclination & Leisure an active part in politics. Unhappily for my Repose the alarming state of our publick affairs & the Acts of my Countrymen oblige me at once to plunge into the midst of a Tempest which I find myself unable to direct. For the As sociation I am under no Concern the universal Acquiescence of the people having exceeded my most sanguine Expectation. But the ap proaching Session of our General assembly gives me the most painful Solicitude. The Necessity of maintaining an Union of Sentiment & Conduct with our Sister Colonies on the one hand & on the other the
