December 29, 1774 281 dread of a civil War which I fear they will think sufficient Care has - < not been taken to prevent most powerfully operate on their Minds 8c distract their Councils. I tremble for the Event! If they pursue a Middle path, assume a Resolution to maintain their Rights with For titude and at the same time hold up a plan of Accommodation 8c Un ion, they must tread upon Thorns, expose themselves to Suspicion 8c Distrust 8c perhaps yield up points which their Sister Colonies will not approve. It is a great Misfortune that altho’ I have carefully watchd the Temper of the Congress I am myself yet to learn what System will content a Majority of the Colonies; 8c conscientously Declare I can give them no New precise Information. It seems it was not a Subject fit to be determin’d by the united Councils of the Colonies & yet as you Justly remark every Colony will too probably be acted upon distinctly, 8c reduced to the necessity of declaring the Condi tions on which they will accede to an Union 8c close this unnatural Breach which threatens the Empire with a Dissolution. The people here however misrepresented are sincerely devoted to the Cause of Liberty. And tho’ they are ungenerously condemned in other colonies [. . .] they will not suffer the press to be restraind, nor a decent Freedom of speech to be controled. These Indulgences in part proceed from a proper sense of Liberty. Under this advantage It is not difficult for a Man of Observation to discern the General Opinion on important 8c popular subjects. It seems to be agreed here that every pacific 8c persuasive Expedient ought to be tried before a Recourse to Arms can be Justified; and accordingly the petition to the King as well as the Association are highly approved. Here they conclude we ought to rest till Time is given for the Operation of these Solitary Measures on the Success of which they greatly rely. If we proceed to Extremities the principal Burthen of a War they think will fall upon New England without any effectual Succor from their Neighbours 8c they cannot be persuaded that undisciplind 8c destitute of competent Artilery Ammunition, or Authority to enforce the Acts of War or [the Means] of defence these Colonies will long be able to maintain a Conflict with the formidable power of Great Britain. And if they shoud be subdued all is lost, 8c for an Age we must submit to the imperious Dictates of our Conquerors. They at the same time consider our Eastern Neighbours as highly irritated, impatient under severe and unmerited Sufferings, and so ready to rush into war that they are constrain’d by no other Consid eration than a Respect to the advice of their Sister Colonies. The En terprize of our New Hampshire Friends against Fort William 8c Mary; the Seizure of the Cannon 8c Ammunition, and their removal into an interior Town, which some Construe to be repugnant to the Spirit of that Resolution of the Congress which restrains the Massa chusetts from offering Violence to the King’s property, they conceive
