284 December 30, 1774 as that woud be weakening a System, by a division of its principles and their Operations upon the Preservation of which entire, its whole Strength materially depends. A Conduct of this kind is therefore so inconsistant with the Principles of all Governmts, her own Interest and Welfare, and the Power and Dignity she holds among Nations, that I have ever thought it, the greatest of all Absurdities in America to expect it. 3 But, it seems, America is of a different Opinion, and beleives, if I may judge from her Conduct, that G. Britain will yield up the only Principle of Union which can form them into one State; and she has accordingly resolved on the Part she will Act. The Language she hold[s] up to the World is—“That the Colonies are entitled to a free and exclusive Power of Legislation in their several Provincial Legis latures, subject only to the Negative of the Crown.” The Parliament is not even to retain the Power of repealing a Law of the Colonies. But, out of their mere Grace 8c Favor, they “Consent to the Opera tion of” [not to the Power of making] "such Acts of Parliament as are” [not shall be hereafter] “bona fide restrained to the Regulation of our external Commerce.” 4 And yet this is to be done if it be possi ble to do it, which many will doubt, “for the purpose of Securing the Commercial Advantage of the whole Empire to the Mother Country, and the Commercial Benefits of its respective Members.” But how the Commercial Benefits of the whole Empire can be secured to the Mother Country and at the Same Time to its American Members, I think will puzzle a Casuist to determine. Here we have American Claims and Pretensions. Thus the Issue is join’d between the two Countries—The one asserting her Supremacy in all Cases whatever, and the other denying it in all. And the Measures, which the latter seems determind to pursue in Maintenance of her Claims, are al ready carrying into Execution. They are, a Refusal of all Commercial Connection, and if that should not succeed, Opposition to the Exer cise of Parliamentary Jurisdiction by Arms, if necessary. When these Facts shall appear, beyond a Doubt, to the grand Council of the Nation; when they find that the Claims of the Colonies are evidently the Claims of Independency, will it not strike them with the most alarming Apprehensions, and in all Probability induce them to exert their whole Strength to Suppress a Spirit so dangerous to their future Welfare, if not to their Existence as an independant Na tion, shoud their whole Strength be necessary for the Purpose? That she will do this, unless some unforeseen Event shall intervene to pre vent it, seems more than probable from her former Conduct, which has been more firm and uniform than many imagined. Before the last War G. Britain seemed little acquainted with the Value and Impor tance of America. The Intercourse between them during that Period opened her Eyes, and placed the Colonies before them in their most
