December 30, 1774 285 alluring Forms. And therefore she was determined to preserve an Object which was of such great Consequence to her, and which she had retaind at the Expence of so much Blood and Treasure. With this View G. Britain has maintained, ever since, at her own Expence, a Military Force in most of the Commercial Cities in America. But it was not her Design to retain America meerly for the sake of expend ing her own Strength in Protecting her. Her Views were rational and therefore went farther. They were to add Strength & Dignity and a farther security to the British Empire. And therefore she expected that the Colonies, as Members of the State, shoud, as they certainly ought, contribute their just and reasonable Proportion of Aids, to wards those important Ends. She well knew that this was the primary and essential Duty of every Member of a Society. But having found from all the Experience which the last War afforded, that the Colo nies neither did, nor were in a Capacity from their Disunion, to com ply with this rational Obligation upon any princple of Justice either in respect to themselves or the Mother State, the Parliament passed the Stamp Act. This Act, tis true, was soon after repealed, but that repeal was occasioned more by the State of Parties at that Time at Court, than any Alteration of Sentiment in the British Legislature re specting their Right, or to the Measures taken for that Purpose by America. Of this Truth the Declaratory and sundry other Subsequent Act[s] are full proof. But shoud any one doubt, after considering these Proofs of a Resolution in the British Government to maintain its Legislative Authority over us at all Adventures let him consider its Conduct in Respect to the Duty on Tea, the Manner of sending that Commodity to the Colonies for Sale, the Plan 8c firm Measures Concerted and pursued to enforce the Act—The Boston Port Bill— the one for the Alteration of their Government—The Act for trial of American Offenders 8cc and I think they must remove every Doubt which either Hope or Ignorance or Inattention to the Facts may have raised. The Parliament is now sitting—The proceedings of the American Congress with the Resolves of all the Provincial Congresses and County Committees are before them. The Spirit of American Inde pendency breathing throughout all of them will be painted in the strongest oratorial Colours, and the Necessity for vigorous and firm Measures to subdue it urged with Success, and Supplies granted to carry them into effectual Execution. Fleets and Troops will cross the Atlantic early in the Spring: the one to take Care of the Ports and Coasts the other to secure the Dependency of the Commercial Cities in America. These purposes effected, the Experience of Ages in forms us that the internal Parts of a Country dependant on Commerce for its Health, and in many Respects for the Conveniencies and Comforts of Life cannot hold out long. The Stopage of our Trade,
