286 December 30, 1774 which, perhaps will be but a small Part of the Business of those Fleets & Troops will alone throw America into Convulsions insup portable. The Merchant without Trade, the Mechanics without Em ploy, and the Farmer without a Sale for his Produce, will feel a new Distress and one as intolerable as new. They will then, and not be fore, enquire for themselves into the Cause of their Misfortunes, and that Enquiry in all Probability will lead them to a Submission. But shoud the Force of the Mother Country be exerted against us, how little will all the threatened Opposition of the American Congress avail? Where are their Fleets or Armies? There are Men, but where their discipline—their Veteran Officers, their Arms or Ammunition, their Money, or their Power to form and enforce the Execution of a Plan of Opposition to the Valour and Strength of one of the most Powerful Nations in the World? All the Art, Sophistry and Heroism of the greatest American Heroes to be found in a late Convention will not be able to sustain the Shock nor raise the Sinking Spirits of the deluded People. This is only a light shaded Picture of the Distress in which, I have been long apprehensive, the rash and violent Proceedings of the Short-sighted American Politicians woud involve their Country. I have therefore opposed them whenever I met them in my Small sphere of Public Life; and used my utmost Endeavours to prevail on America to pursue a safer and more rational Conduct. The Plan of Negotiation wou’d have been, in my Opinion the Plan of Safety; it woud have led us into the Harbour of Liberty—to a firm &: solid Es tablishment of our Rights, and to an Union with the Mother State upon Principles of permanent Freedom. Nor wou’d it have been a difficult task for the late Congress to have taken this Ground, had their Principles disposed them to an Union with the British Govern ment. The Materials are always at Hand to a Person acquainted with the History of the Colonies—their Connection with G. Britain and the Principles of the English Constitution. The History of the Colo nies afford abundant Proof that they are, and can be considered in no other Light than Members of the British Government. The Terri tory was discovered by Sebastian Cabot, authorised for that Purpose by Henry the 7 th, Sovereign Trustee of the English State, under the Great Seal—the Seal of the State—or the Seal of the King Lords and Commons. 5 The Intent of the Discovery was to increase the Territo ry, extend the Commerce and add to the Wealth and Power of the State. The Charters of Settlement have been all granted in the same Manner under the Authority of the Great Seal and by the subsequent Kings in their Politic, not private, Capacity, and as the Sovereign Representative of the politic Body of the whole State. In many of them the Purposes before mentioned are declared to be the Objects and Designs of the Grants. There is no Exemption in any of them,
