January 23, 1775 299 cutt off all Hope of a peaceable Settlemt. 8c they shd. be advised of them as they [are] expected by Febry. you may depend on it the N E people will try their Strength even were they sure to go alone and will endeavr. if possible to get rid of the Troops now at Boston be fore they can be joined by any more. They will you may be sure re sume and endeavour to settle an internal Governmt. to collect and draw their Strength to a point which will be most essentially neces sary in Case of any Misfortune or Disappoint [ment] in the Outset. You will be pleased to peruse the Ltr I write to Mr. Cushing and if my Sentimts. correspond with yours seal and forward it. We now stand on a very ticklish point of Time. I really wish every Thing could be kept just moving till we hear from thence 8c that if the least prospect of Accomod [atio] n opens we may prudently cultivate 8c im prove the Occasion. But if no Hope is left our own Resolutions ought to be ready formed in our own Minds. It will be a great Question whether we shall resolve to continue the present Appearances of Governmt. which indeed is not strong enough to protect agt. Violence and is only treated with Respect from principle by those from whom Violences need not be apprehended 8c which must necessarily be a Clogg in our Motions so long as it continues, or whether a real sub stantial active Governmt. coinciding with the Views of America shall be established by Consent. 1 need not observe to you that the free dom with which I write to you claims your utmost Discretion and the Subject your mature Thoughts. No Man in the British Dominions more passionately wishes for a Reconciliation than myself but if the terms are so hard as Slavery to America I have formed my Resolu tion and am clear for employing every Means of Self Defence. If the Report is true that 10 or even 4,000 Men more are to be sent to Bos ton I do not know that we ought if we could to stay the Hands of the N E people till their Arrival. The Season of the Year may afford an Oppty that if lost may be lost forever. I am sure if they must fight it out I cannot blame them for taking every Advantage, and the Time appointed for their Convention with what I have collected of the Dispo [sition] of the people pretty well explain to me their Inten tions. I heard some Time since of the Appointmt of field Officers. I am very sorry to understand that Ammunition is wanting. I wish some of the Ingenious amongst you would bestow some Thoughts and Experiments on Salt Petre 8c Sulphur. I have little Doubt but that we might supply ourselves amply with both. You judged right that I had Nothing to do with the cursed Hand Bills. 2 The ill timed Resolution here has done us a real Disservice. I as well as many others are greatly embarrassed by it. I cannot exe cute a Measure so flatly agt. my best informed Opinion 8c am sure a pursuit of it will throw us into Divisions which we shall not be able to erase within Ourselves. S[amuel] C[hase] went alone in it not only
