300 January 23, 1775 witht. any of the Comee except M [atthias] Hammond 3 that I know of but the Sentiment was expressly disapproved by several of us. I do not know any more likely Way to put the people on thinking than for several of us to withdraw from the Commee which I believe we shall do. They will at first Beware but I am in Hopes it will make them a little more cautious. This Humour of serving people will if not checked Spread itself so as to be very inconvenient. I learn from Fred [eric] k that small parties of unthinking Men are forcing others to enrol who are principled agt. bearing Arms. The people at large are not a Body fit for Deliberation, they are gen [era] lly carried away with a warmth of Zeal that overleaps sedate & wise policy. Several with us will not subscribe meerly because of the Threat & some who very freely subscribed declare they will not pay their Money for the same Reason; had it not been for this unlucky flight I beleive we shd. have raised our Money witht. difficulty. As it is I am afraid we shall not. Genl. Lees Observations 4 will soon be printed but he esteems the manual Exercise 5 of very little Consequence he does not even touch upon it: his chief view is to prove the best Line of Fire consists only of two deep and Major Gates is fully in Sentimt with him & to give the simplest and easiest Directions for forming a Line of Impres sion or Resistance of 4, 6, or 8 Deep. It has been delayed so long to get a plate cut. We go on with good Spirit in our Compys. We have but two in Town. We have some surplus men but not eno. if every Body would enrol to make up a third Compy. A good many perform the manual Exercise, which is done with us in the prussian Manner & differs but little from yours, with dexterity. The Country people of our County show an unexpected forwardness. I am satisfied you will make all the allowance you ought for my ta citurnity but I am really ashamed that you have so much Cause of Complaint against me for intire Silence. When I write you at all I leave Nothing behind which I think worth mentioning. I am Sr. Your Affect, hble Servt. Th Johnson Junr [P.S.] You will Notice that I have not stated the Matter fully to Mr Cushing but left it as if nothing had been yet moved in the Conven tion. I think any Argumt. from my Ltr will be the stronger. RC (Herbert Klingelhofer, Bethesda, Md., 1974). 1 Samuel Purviance, Jr. (1728-88?), Baltimore merchant and revolutionary lead er, subsequently became chairman o£ the Baltimore Committee of Observation. David C. Skaggs, Roots of Maryland Democracy, 1153-1116 (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1973) , pp. 133-34, 152. a These handbills, which were widely denounced, consisted of the printed pro ceedings of a January 16, 1775, meeting in Annapolis of the inhabitants of Anne Arundel County. The most objectionable feature of the proceedings was a resolu tion authorizing the local committee of observation to collect contributions for the purchase of arms and ammunition and publicly to brand as enemies to America those who refused to contribute. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1149-41.
