February 5, 1775 305 pears to Me to be weak, &: a Deception to ourselves & our Friends. I have been for some Time strongly impressed with a Belief, that the present unhappy Dispute with Great Britain would not wait the Event of a commercial Opposition, and that she must either give up the Right of Taxing America, or enforce obedience by the Sword. Delay must ruin the Minister. Some decisive Mode must be adopted, & instantly executed, or he must fail. Lord North is too well ac quainted with his Weakness; he must be convinced that the Colonies, if they adhere to their association, must succeed. If the Question was to be decided by Justice or Policy, I should not doubt, that our in dubitable Rights would be restored, our Capital Grievances re dressed, and peace and Harmony once more established with the Mother Country; but when I reflect on the enormous Influence of The Crown, the System of Corruption introduced as the Art of Gov ernment, The Venality of the Electors (the radical Source of every other Evil) the open & repeated Violations, by Parliament, of the Constitution, at Home, The regular, arbitrary System of Colony ad ministration, The several Acts relative to the Massachusetts, The Quebec Bill, and The Re-election of the Members of the last Parlia ment, I have not the least Dawn of Hope in the Justice, Humanity, Wisdom or Virtue of the British Nation. I consider them as one of the most abandon’d & wicked People under the Sun. They openly sell themselves & their Posterity to their Representatives, who as openly traffic their Integrety &: Honor to The Minister. The Roman Senate in the Reigns of Claudius Caesar, Domitian or Nero, were not more servilely wicked, than the present House of Commons. They no long er regard even the Appearance of Virtue. Our Dependance must be on God & ourselves. I still retain my Opinion, that the Right of Parliamt. to regulate our Trade ought to be acknowledged in the most precise and explicit Terms, and shall deliver the same Sentiment, if called on, in my leg islative Capacity. You are pleased to ask Me, what plan of Union is to be adopted, or what Conduct an Assembly can pursue, which wod. be acceptable in every Colony. Your Candor entitles You to an An swer. If our Assembly was called, & those Questions proposed, I should be very averse to take them into Consideration; I would, if possible, decline Giving any pointed Answers, & endeavor to refer a Subject of such Importance & in which all America is so deeply inter ested, to the next Congress. If I could not prevail, I would claim a free & exclusive power of Legislation, in all Cases of Taxation &: in ternal Polity; I would expressly deny a Right in Parliament to make any Laws to bind the Colonies, except only for the Regulation of their Trade: The Right bona fide to regulate our Commerce I would recognize in the most clear and express Terms. Without such Claim by the Colonists they can neither be free nor happy; without such
