February 6, 1775 307 after requesting my most respectful Compliments to Mesrs. Jay, Low & Alsop, that I am [with] great Sincerity Your Affectionate and Obedient Servant, Sami. Chase. RC (NHi). ■On January 26, 1775, the New York Assembly rejected a motion to consider the proceedings of the First Congress, and on the 31st it decided to send its own petitions and remonstrances to the king and both houses of Parliament. Chase was probably aware of the assembly’s first action when he wrote to Duane, but whether he also knew of the second is less certain. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1286-87. Samuel Chase to John Dickinson Dear Sir. Annapolis. February 6th. 1775. It [is] with Pleasure I acknowledge the Receipt of your Letter of the 29th of January. From an entire and perfect Approbation of the Resolve of the Congress, that if the late Acts of Parliament, relative to the Massa chusetts Bay, should be attempted to be carried into Execution by force, that in such Case all America ought to support that Colony in her Opposition; From the Declaration, by the Congress, to the Throne, that our accumulated Injuries were too severe to be any longer tolerable, and that our Militia would protect Us in Time of Peace; From a Concurrence with the Sentiments expressed to the In habitants of Quebec, that We were resolved never to resign our Rights, but with our Lives, and to the People of G. Britain, that We never would submit to be Hewers of Wood or Drawers of Water for any Ministry or Nation in the World; In Compliance with the Advice of the Congress, to extend our Views to the most unhappy Event, and to be in all Respects prepared for every Contingency; From a Consideration of our defenceless State, unable to protect Ourselves or assist our Friends, and for many other Reasons, our Provincial Convention passed the Resolutions, which I enclosed You in my last Letter. We must either resist or infamously submit. If We are resolved to resist, and to defend our Liberties at the Risque of our Lives, a mili tary force appears to Me to be necessary, and Arms and Ammuni tion the only Means; to resolve to resist, without preparing a military force & Arms will be, in my Opinion, of little Consequence. I there fore wish your Province had resolved instantly to arm. If the attempt had been made, & failed, it would have encouraged our Enemies, & alarmed our Friends. Our Province was very desirous to receive some Assurance, from her Sister Colonies, of Assistance, if attacked, & will remain in perfect Confidence of their Support if necessary. I have been for some Time strongly impressed with a Belief, that 579-852 0 - 77 - 22 Vol. 1
