308 February 6, 1775 the present unhappy Dispute with G. Britain would not wait the Event of a Commercial Opposition, and that she must either give up the Right of Taxing America, or enforce obedience by the Sword; Delay must ruin the Ministry. If the Question was to be decided by Justice or Policy, I should not doubt, that our indibutable Rights would be restored, our capital Grievances redressed, and Peace & Harmony once more established with the Mother Country; but when I reflect on the enormous Influence of the Crown, the System of Cor ruption introduced as the Art of Government, the Venality of the El ectors (the radical Source of every other Evil) The open and repeat ed Violations of the Constitution, at Home, the regular, arbitrary System of Colony Administration, the several cruel and barbarous Acts relative to the Massachusetts, The Quebec Bill, And the Re election of the Members of the last Parliament, I have not the least Dawn of Hope in the Justice, Humanity, Wisdom or Virtue of the British Nation. I consider them as one of the most abandoned & wicked People under the Sun. They openly sell themselves to their Representatives, who as openly traffic their Integrety 8c Honor to the Ministry. Our Dependance must be on God and Ourselves. Nihil ab extra quaesumus. The Conduct of the Commons of New York is very alarming, if they attempt to act separately Confidence will be destroyed. You have in our last Weeks Gazette his Majestys Speech and the Address of the Lords and Commons. From an Apprehension that the Protest of the Lords may not have reached You before this, I have enclosed You a Copy. The Proceedings of the Congress had not arrived in London, the 9th of December. By a private Letter We are informed, that Lord North is greatly enraged against the Colonies, and has declared that he will shut up all our Ports, and decide the Dispute with the Sword. The Martial Ardor prevails very generally here, above 100 Com panies, of 81 Men each, are already formed on the Western Shore. Honoured with a Communication of your Sentiments, I will pay due Regard to your Request, and endeavor to merit your Confidence. I am with great Esteem Dear Sir Your affectionate 8c obedient Servt. Sami Chase RC (PPL). John Adams to a Friend in London Feb. 10, 1775 The account you give of an overbearing influence in the house, 1 and the want of feeling and spirit out of it, is of a very serious and
