February 10, 1775 309 melancholy kind: Americans are very sensible that such accounts are true, and expect to fall a sacrifice to the knavery in the cabinet and the folly out of it, unless preserved by their own virtue, their frugali ty, or valour, or both. Shorter parliaments, a more equitable representation, the abolition of taxes and the payment of the debt, the reduction of placemen and pensioners, the annihilation of bribery and corruption, the reforma tion of luxury, dissipation and effeminacy, the disbanding the army, are all necessary to restore your country to a free government, and to a safe, honourable, and happy life. But is this practicable, is there a resource in human nature for hope of such a miraculous change? is there one example of it in history or experience? a nation is easily corrupted, but not so easily reformed. The present reign may be that of Augustus, but upon my honour I expect twelve Caesars will suc ceed it. What is to become of America if they should? ought she not to think in time, and prepare for the worst. I have a great curiosity to know how the proceedings of the Con gress at Philadelphia are relished in London, at St. James’s, and St. Stephens. I think it may be seen from them, that America is not in sensible of her danger, nor inattentive to the means of her safety. I am also very anxious to know what the friends of liberty think of the hasty dissolution of parliament; for my own part, I have ever thought this the most insidious and artful step of the present reign, it seems to betray more contempt of the people, at the same time that it betrays a dread of some remaining sense and integrity among them, than any thing else which has been done. You will allow, Sir, that the broil with America is a very great national concern. At a time when America was assembled to concert measures relative this great con cern, a new parliament is called of a sudden, before the people could hear from America, as if the minister disdained or dreaded that the nation should have opportunity to judge of the state of America, and choose or instruct their representatives accordingly; as if the minister scorned or feared that the people, the electors, should have oppor tunity to hear and converse together upon facts, before they chose their members. The design of the ministry seems to have been likewise to give the friends of liberty the go-by, in England as well as in America; deter mined to pursue their system, they would not suffer the friends of the constitution to converse or correspond together before the day of election, lest the constituents should bind the candidates to act an honest part. It is not easy to convey to you, Sir, an adequate idea of the state of this province. It is now at last true, that we have no gov ernment, legislative, executive, or judicial. The people determined never to submit to the act for destroying their charter, so dearly pur chased, preserved and defended by the toil, treasure and blood of
