February 25, 1775 317 their Guns & Ammunition; no freind of Government can rejoyce in anything that disturbs Government, much less in what they call Acts of Rebellion, and their tryumph must spring from a malicious, dia bolical desire, that the Vengeance of G. Britain may be reaked on the American Colonys; we are very much obliged to you for every hint you give of any danger of dividing the Colonys; our Freinds from one End of the Continent, to the other may depend upon it, that in this Colony no step is taken of any Importance with[ou]t considering how it will be approved of by the other Colonys, & our earnest desire to do nothing that might give Uneasiness, has prevent ed some steps being taken which perhaps might have been Salutary. With regard to the particular matter of moving the Guns &c, any person who attends to the Current of affairs must know the reason of it was the forbidding Arms & Ammunition being imported, & the Conduct of Administration wearing so hostile an Appearance as to loudly call upon the natural inherent principle of Self preservation. Those who hold the Doctrines of passive Obedience & non resistance will fault their Conduct, whilst others who view these transactions as Connected with the rights of mankind & Englishmen, will have more liberal apprehensions from them. But our Enemys omitt no oppor- tunitys to asperse the Whiggs; Sc even the Whiggs who are at a dis tance from the scene of action, dont Sufficiently Consider the difficult Scituation of their Freinds, who in the Centre of action are Contin ually impressed, & in danger of being shackled Sc rendered unable to Struggle by patience & remissness, or of giving Offence & causing Di visions by any Enterprize which might save them. They who wish well to our Common Cause will Consider all Circumstances before they form a judgment, & they who are unfreindly will stick at nothing to reproach us. The report you mention of Mr. Adams & Mr. Cushing, 3 is much Such a kind of story, as one industriously reported here vizt. that the (learned, the Sincere, the deliberate, the judicious) Farmer of Pen- sylvania, had tack’d about, & gone over to the Tory Cause. My Freind, you must have observed that ever since the Congress rose, the great father of lies has been fully employ’d in misrepresent ing every thing, & making some pompous lies clearly out of nothing. The Story you mention is one of this Sort, no such motion was made or thought of as I know of much less did Mr. Cushing ever in his life use such language, & as for the dissolution of the Congress, it was done upon the same principle the Grand Congress was dissolved Vizt. to give the Inhabitants Opportunity of Sending Other men if they pleased, after they had done every thing which they then thought proper to do &: a new one has just sat. I hope the freinds of our Common Cause will not grow cool, much less forsake it, upon any Supposition that we are rash in our measures. If in our Extremi-
