318 February 25, 1775 tys we Should not conduct as cool Reason would dictate, we are to be pityed, but I dont know that the Cause is the worse, i.e. has G. Britain a right to make us Slaves, because when we endeavour to hinder it we do not do it with the most discretion. Pray remember me to yr. good Wife 8c to all my freinds at Philada. of whom I recollect too many to be enumerated; hoping yr. best Welfare 8c the redress of all Greivances I am yr. obliged 8c hble Servt R T Paine RC (PHi). 1 Stephen Collins (1733-94), native of Lynn, Mass., was a prominent Quaker leader and merchant in Philadelphia. Katherine A. Kellock, ‘‘Stephen Collins, Philadelphia Merchant,” Business Archives 36 (1972) : 6-13. 2 This letter to Paine was one of several that Collins wrote to Massachusetts patriot leaders during the interval between the First and Second Continental Congresses, expressing fears of divisions in revolutionary ranks. In addition to his letter to Paine, Collins’ letterbook contains letters to Samuel Adams of November 10, 1774, and to William Tudor of January 14 and February 17, 1775, DLC. On a similar theme see John Dickinson to Thomas Cushing, January 26, and Thomas Cushing to John Dickinson, February 13, 1775. 3 Collins had repeated the rumor of a move in the Massachusetts Provincial Congress “to Raise Twenty thousand men Immediately & Attack the Kings troops. The Report is that S. Adams made the motion & urged it very Strongly. That T. Cushing opposed it as Strongly alleging that the Southern Colonies would not approve of it nor Stand by You. That S. Adams reply’d he well knew You would have the suport & Assistan[ce] of all the Colonies, on which T. Cushing gave him the Lie, with Saying that is a Lie Mr. Adams & you know it, & you know that I know it is a Lie, which ocasioned much altercation & Debate, and was the means of the Congress being Desolved.” Collins to Paine, January 14, 1775, DLC. Joseph Galloway to William Franklin Febry. 28, 1775 When I consider the Spirit 8: Firmness with which you have endea voured to discharge your Duty to your Sovereign, 8c to serve the People over whom you preside, and their weak, evasive, ill-wrote, no meaning Answer, I find it difficult to determine, whether I feel great er Satisfaction 8c Pleasure at the one or Contempt for the other. Poor weak sighted Men, who are floating with the Tide of Licentiousness 8c Sedition, which they expect will run forever, when a little common Sense wou’d tell them that it must soon change, and that with it they must change their Language 8c embrace your friendly Advice. I am happy in telling you, that the People of this Province (Penn sylvania) are altering their Sentiments 8c Conduct with amazing rap idity. We have been successful in baffling all the Attempts of the vio lent Party to prevail on the People to prepare for War against the Mother Country. The Quakers, the high 8c low Dutch, the Baptists, Menonists, Dumplers 8cc. are promoting Moderate Measures; in so
