February 28, 1775 319 much that I hope, with some Trouble, all Violence will soon cease, 8c Peace 8c Order take Place of Licentiousness 8c Sedition. The Tories (as they are called) make it a Point to visit the Coffee House dayly 8c maintain their Ground—while the violent Independents are less bold 8c insolent, as their Adherents are greatly diminished. On Thurs day 8c Friday last, determined to abide the Consequences what ever they might be either in respect to my Person or Estate, I spoke my Sentiments in Assembly without the least reserve. I censured 8c con demned the Measures of the Congress in every Thing—aver’d that they all tended to incite America to Sedition Sc terminated in Inde pendence—contended for, 8c proved the Necessity of Parliamentary Jurisdiction over the Colonies in all Cases whatsoever—exposed the Folly of those who hoped, that the British State would suffer its Au thority to be in the least impaired, much less totally given up—ex plained the rights of America, Sc pointed out the Necessity of our tak ing different Measures from those already taken for a recovery of them. I stood single 8c unsupported, among a Set of Men every one of whom had approved of the Measures I was censuring, reprobating their own Conduct to them—8c endeavouring by cool & dispassionate reason 8c Argument to convince them of their Errors. The Opposition as I expected was violent Sc indecent. I kept my Temper unruffled 8c firm which gave me no small Advantage. My Opponents were, The Governor’s father-in-Law (our late chief Justice) the Pennsylvania Farmer, 1 Chs. Thompson, Thos. Mifflin 8c Geo. Ross. The Motion was to petition the King agreeably to the Governor’s Advice in his Mes sage, for which we are more indebted to you Sc Gov. Colden than to him. The Success my Arguments met with; greatly exceeded my most sanguine Expectations. Fourteen Members came over to me; but there being 38 in the House, 8c finding I should lose the Vote without four more Converts—I was obliged to alter my Plan, 8c to move to postpone the Debate untill next Wednesday week hoping that Pro crastination 8c News by the next Pacquet might assist me. My Design being suspected a warm Opposition succeeded—however we carried the Question, 19 for it, 18 against it. 2 But after all the Issue yet re mains uncertain I rather think as the independent Party will exert ev ery Nerve, 8c at last die hard, it will take more Time to defeat them. And that I shall not be able at this Time to carry such a Petition as I wish to send, as none should go, but one which may render it consist ent with the Dignity of Government to receive. Should that prove the Case I hope to prevail on the House to adjourn to the Middle of April when I shall have no Doubt of Success. I think I have mentioned to you a Design of publishing my Senti ments on the Dispute between G. Britain 8c the Colonies; I now send the Pamphlet, 3 of which I beg your Acceptance, and, at your Lei sure, your Candid Sentiments on it. I wish’d for them before it went
