322 March 21, 1775 prove upon our Success and push for perfect political Freedom.” RC (ViU) . RC damaged; missing words supplied from FC (NN) . Adams, Writings (Cushing) , 3:205-9. Joseph Galloway to William Franklin [Trevose. March 26, 7775.] Is pleased that Governor Franklin has expressed confidence in him and that the king is determined to assert British authority in America. “I did intend to have communicated to you the Event of the De bates in our Assembly before this Time; But I have been a good deal indisposed, & besides engaged in writing a reply to the scurrilous An swer to “A Candid Examination” Sec. 1 I have just finished it, and I wish it could undergo your revisal before it goes to the Press, but that is impossible—And for that reason I have taken the more Pains with it. I am pleased with the Attack because it has given me an Oppor tunity of supporting the Principles of the Pamphlet by some new Ar guments, 8c of exposing the Ignorance & independant Notions of the Pennsylvania Farmer 8c his Colleague Mr. Thompson. Mr. Rivington will send you one as soon as it is published. “As I seldom keep Copies of my Letters, I know not particularly how far I communicated the Proceedings in our Assembly. ... I think I wrote you the substance 8c the Event of the two first Days De bate upon the [Governor’s] Message, 8c that the further Considera tion of it was postponed for near 10 Days. I need not therefore re peat it here. On the Saturday before the Day of the further Debate the independent party despairing of Success in preventing a Petition to his Majesty, moved that the Doors should be thrown open, 8c the Mob let in upon me. I was secretly advertised of this Design, 8c had spoke to a Number of Friends to be there in Case the Motion should succeed, being determined it should have no other Effect, but to pre pare myself better 8c to speak with more Firmness 8c more fully upon the Measures of the Congress. However upon debating the Motion, we carried it in the Negative 24 to 14. This was an humiliating Blow to my Opponents. I had hitherto carried every Question, 8c constantly by an increased Majority. And yet altho’ I had brought a Number of the Members (not less than 16 out of 39) to petition upon proper Grounds, I found it impossible, as there were very little hopes of gaining four more. I therefore resolved to change my Ground 8c to prevail on the House to adjourn to some Day between this 8c the 10th of May, the Time of Meeting of the next Congress; In Expectation that by the Change of the Peoples Sentiments out of Doors, which had already undergone an amazing Alteration, and the Intelligence
