324 March 26, 1775 least have sent for me 8cc. 2dly. That they had treated the House with insolent Disregard & Disobedience; for that they had not inserted in the Answer either Sentiment or Word of what was Yesterday unani mously agreed upon. 3dly. That it contained palpable Untruths. To these I added many other Arguments, But all was in vain. This was not a Time when reason was to prevail. The great News of Yesterday had altered the Minds of some of the weak & irresolute of the Ches ter & Philada. Members & upon the Question they carried it against the Commitment 20 to 16. The answer went thro’ the House. I op posed it in every stage—And upon the Question whether it should be transcribed it was carried 22 to 14. And in Order to shew that the House was divided—which they much dreaded—I insisted upon the Yeas 8c Nays to be taken down 8c published as you have seen. The House stands adjourned to the first of May. “I intimated before, that I had met with Insults during my Stay in the City. Shortly after the two first Days Debates—late in the Eve ning a Box was left at my Lodgings nail’d 8c directed to me. Upon opening it next Morning I found in it a Halter, with a threatening Letter. I read the Letter 8c nail’d up the Box—lock’d it carefully in my Charriott Box, determined not to mention it to any Body—as I knew it would be impossible that the Person sending it should keep it long a Secret 8c hoping by that Means to discover them. I waited a Fortnight 8c nothing transpired. At length it came out from two of the Persons whom I verily believe sent it—And from the Clue, so far as I have traced it, it comes from two Members of Assembly, a discard ed Assembly Officer 8c a Head of the White Oaks. However it had no other Effect on me than to fix me in my former resolutions to oppose those lawless Measures at all Events. “I am happy in your Approbation of my Pamphlet. I find from all Quarters it is universally applauded by Men of Candor 8c Abilities. Your Sentiments 8c mine are not different respecting the proper Un ion with G. Britain, nor respecting the Addition to my proposed Plan. I thought of it at the Time, but omitted it because I knew the Plan would be less exceptionable to those Democratic Spirits to whom it was to be proposed, 8c by whom adopted in the first In stance, 8c because I thought it might be added in the Negotiation. The great End I had in View in offering the Plan, I have often before told you was to prevail on the Congress to take the Ground of Nego tiation 8c Proposition. ... I am Confident no Endeavours will be used by Government here, only "to save Appearances,” to prevent the Appointment of Deputies for the intended Congress. When I re fused to accept of the Appointment in December I could not prevail on Judge Morton to join me in the refusal. However, I am deter mined to oppose the appointment in our sitting in May, 8c exert every Nerve to prevent it.” 2
