332 April 29, 1775 cord at length. Continues: "I cannot say, I am convinc’d of the Truth of all the Particulars above mentioned; tho all of them are supported by many probabilities. But these Facts, I believe, You may depend on. That this most unnatural and inexpressibly cruel War began with the Butchery of the unarm’d Americans at Lexington—that the Provincials, incredible as it may be at St. James’s or St. Stephens’ fought bravely—that the Regulars have been defeated with consider able Slaughter, tho they behav’d resolutely—that a Tory dares not open his Mouth against the Cause of America even at New York— that the Continent is preparing most assiduously for a vigorous Re sistance—and that Freedom or an honorable Death are the only Ob jects on which their [Sons?] are at present employed. “What human Policy can divine the Prudence of precipitating Us into these shocking Scenes? Why have We been so rashly declared Rebels? Why have Divisions been sent to disarm Us? Why Orders to commence Hostilities? Why was not General Gage at least restrain’d from Extremities till the sense of another Congress could be collect ed? It was the determined Resolution of some already appointed del egates for it, to have strain’d every nerve at that Meeting, to attempt bringing the unhappy Dispute to Terms of Accommodation, safe for the Colonies and honorable 8c advantageous for our Mother Country, in whose Prosperity 8c Glory our Hearts take as large a Share, as any Minister’s of State, and from as just and as generous Motives, to say no more of them. “But what Topicks of Reconciliation are now left for Men, Who think as I do, to address our Countrymen? to recommend Reverence for the Monarch or Affection for the Mother Country? Will the Dis tinctions between the Prince and his Ministers, between the People 8c their Representatives wipe out the Stains of Blood? Or have We the slighest Reason to hope, that those Ministers 8c Representatives will not be supported throughout the Tragedy as They have been thro the first Act? No. While We revere 8c love, the Sword is opening our Veins. In all human probability, the same Delusions will still prevail, till France 8c Spain, if not other Powers, long jealous of Britain’s Force 8c Fame, will fall upon her embarrass’d with an exhausting Civil War, and crushing or at least depressing her, then turn their arms on these provinces, which must submit to wear their Chains or wade thro Seas of Blood too dear bought and at best a frequently convuls’d and precarious Independence. “All the ministerial Intelligence concerning Us is false. We are a united, resolved People—are or quickly shall be well arm’d 8c disci plined. Our Smiths 8c Powder Mills are at work Day 8c Night. Our sup plies from foreign Parts continually arriving. Good officers, that is, well experienc’d ones, We shall soon have—and the Navy of Britain cannot stop our whole Trade. Our Towns are but Brick and Stone 8c
