May 8, 1775 335 successful if we are beat into a Submission under the Execution of the Acts of Parliament, that Submission and Slavery will last no long er than their comparative strength and our comparative Weakness. Our Children will resume the Contest on the first favourable Occa sion and though Individuals and many of the best amongst us may be lost, the Liberties of America will be saved but if we become Tribu taries by Consequence, Individuals of the present Day will be saved but the Liberties of America will be lost. Unless there shd be a prospect of seeing you at Phila. I shall be obliged to you for a Line now and then. Pray make my Compliments to Mrs. Gates. I am Dr. Sir Yours Th. Johnson, Junr. RC (NHi) . Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane [New York, May 7 th, 1775.} Recounts the journey of the Con necticut and Massachusetts delegates across Connecticut and New York. Describes their grand procession into New York City, led by a battalion of 800 men and cheered on by the welcoming throngs. 1 Continues: “Tories are silent, but not quite dead; but a most critical watch is kept over them, and every letter intercepted. The people are in suspense as to seizing the Fort as yet, and wait the advice of the Congress; but a most surprising spirit prevails, and New England men are extolled to the skies.” MS not found; abstracted from NYHS Collections 19 (1887) : 43-46. 1 Samuel Adams’ letter of this date to his wife, reporting the "great Honor” accorded the Massachusetts and Connecticut delegates by the city of New York, is in Adams, Writings (Cushing) , 3:214. John Hancock’s letter of the same date to Dorothy Quincy, containing an even more elaborate description of their New York reception, is in the Magazine of American History 19 (June 1888) : 509-10. And for John Adams’ letter to his wife written from New York May 8, see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:195-96. Benjamin Franklin to David Hartley Dear Sir, Philada. May 8. 1775. Monday I arrived here on Friday Evening, 8c the next morning was unani mously chosen by the General Assembly a Delegate for the ensuing Congress, which is to meet on Wednesday. You will have heard before this reaches you of the Commence ment of a Civil War; the End of it perhaps neither myself, nor you, who are much younger, may live to see. 1 I find here all Ranks of
