336 May 8, 1775 People in Arms, disciplining themselves Morning & Evening, and am informed that the firmest Union prevails throughout North America; New York as hearty as any of the rest. I purpose to communicate to you from time to time the most authentic Intelligence I can collect here, and hope to hear frequently from you in the same Way. I am with great Esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obedt huml Servt 2 B Franklin RC (MH). 'David Hartley (1732-1813), English statesman, inventor, pro-American MP from Hull, 1774-80. DNB. ’This day Franklin also wrote a brief letter to Joseph Galloway. “I am much oblig’d by your kind Congratulations. I am concern’d at your Resolution of quitting public Life at a time when your Abilities are so much wanted. I hope you will change that Resolution. I hear my Son is to be at Burlington this day Week to meet his Assembly. I had purposed (if he could not conveniently come hither) to meet him there, and in my Return to visit you at Trevose. I shall know in a day or two, how that will be. But being impatient to see you, I believe I shall accept the kind Offer of your Carriage, and come to you directly. If I conclude upon that, I shall let you know. At present I am so taken up with People coming in continueally, that I cannot stir, & can scarce think what is proper or practicable.” Arthur Loeb Collection, Philadelphia, Pa., 1975. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney New-Castle May the Sth 1775. “I arrived here yesterday after noon 8c soon after waited on Col. Bland one of the delegates from Virginia, who is since gone up to town in the stage 8c says the other delegates from his colony, (he believes) might have got as far as Chester last night. Mr. Hall, Mr. Johnson 8c Mr. Tilghman of Mary land set out from here this day soon after dinner 8c about the same time, a brig from South Carolina passed by with the delegates from that colony. Mr. Chaise of Maryland went through this town yesterday. 1 Mr. Read 8c I are to set out to-morrow morning attended by the Militia of this town at the instance 8c request of the Company. The Province Assembly 2 who are now setting have added Dr. Benja min Franklin 8c Mr. James Willson of York Co. to the Congress.” Tr (DLC) . Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 57. 1 For additional information on the journey of the Virginia and other southern delegates to Philadelphia, see Washington, Diaries (Fitzpatrick), 2:194-95; and Richard Caswell to William Caswell, May 11, 1775. ’ The provincial assembly of Pennsylvania.
