May 11, 1775 339 1 A more detailed account of the delegates’ entry into Philadelphia was penned by Massachusetts loyalist, Samuel Curwen. “First appeared 2 or 300 Gentlemen on horseback preceded by the new chosen city Military Officers 2 and 2 with drawn swords followed by J[ohn] H[ancock] and S[amuel] A[dams] in a Phaeton and pair the former looking as if his journey and high living, or his solicitude to support the dignity of his character as the first man in Massachusetts, had impaired his health. Next came J[ohn] A[dams] and Mr. C[ushing] in a single horse chaise, behind followed R[obert] T[reat] P[aine], and after him the N. York, at least some of the many Delegates from the Provinces.” Samuel Curwen, The Journal of Samuel Curwen Loyalist, ed. Andrew Oliver, 2 vols. (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1972) , 1:8. Richard Caswell to William Caswell My Dear Son Philadelphia 11th May 1775. By a Gentleman Bound to Tar River I now Write to inform you, 1 that after I parted with you at Halifax Mr. Hewes 8c myself proceed ed on our Journey, as follows. Sunday evening we Arrived at Peters burg in Virginia where we met the express with an Accot. of a Battle between the Kings Troops 8c the Bostonians. The next day we crossed James River 8c Lodged at Hanover Court House, where we had an Accot of 1500 Men being under Arms to proceed to Williams burg in Order to Oblige Lord Dunmore to return some powder he had taken out of the Magazine 8c lodged on Board of a Man of War in James River; what was done in that matter we have not since Heard. The next day we were constantly meeting Armed men who had been to Escort the delegates for Virginia on their Way towards this place. We Lodged that night at Port Royal and were only 2 or 3 Hours after the Virginia Gentn. The next day we got down to Potow- mack Side before the Boats returned that had carried the Virginians over. Here were part of the Militia of three Counties under Arms 8c in the Uniform of hunting shirts, they received us 8c Conducted us, on the return of the Boats, to the waters edge with all the Military honors due to General Officers, we then crossed the River and learned at the Ferry on Maryland side that a Company of Indepen dants in Charles County had Attended the Virginia delegates from there under Arms, we proceeded 8c overtook them at Port Tobacco, where indeed the Independants made a Most Glorious Appearance. Their Company consisted of 68 Men beside officers all Genteelly drest in Scarlet 8c well equiped with Arms 8c Warlike Implements with drum 8c Fife, Sentinels were placed at the doors 8c occasionally releived during the Time we stayed there. The next Morning We all set out together 8c were Attended by the Independants to the Verge of their County, where they delivered us to another Company of Independants in Prince George’s 8c they in 579-852 0 - 77 - 24 VoLl
