340 May 11, 1775 like Manner to a second and that to a Third which brot us through their County. We Lodged that night at Malborough & the next day tho we met with a Most Terible Gust of Lightining, thunder, wind, Hail & rain. Arrived at Baltimore at the enterance of Which Town we were received by four Independant Companies who Conducted us with their Colours Flying, drums Beating & Fifes playing to our Lodgings at the Fountain Tavern (Grants). The next day we were prevailed on to stay at Baltimore, where Colo. Washington Accom panied by the rest of the delegates reviewed the Troops. They have four Companies of 68 Men each Compleat, who go thro their Exer cises extremely Clever, they are raising in that Town three other Companies which they say will soon be full. We were very Genteelly entertained here in the Court House. The next day we Breakfasted at My old Master Cheynes & dined at Susquehanah, crossed the River & Lodged at the Ferry House. As I had in some Measure been the cause of the Virginia Gentn. going round the Bay by recommending that road & being the only person in the Company Acquainted with the road I was Obliged to keep with them so that I did not call on any of my relations. I sent George in to Jos. Dallams where he left the Letters I brot. for our Friends and was informed my Grand Mother & all Friends were Well except Mrs. Dallam who had been poorly some Time. The next day we got to Wilmington where we fell in with Several of The Maryland delegates Sc came all into this City to Dinner on the 7th Instant. Yesterday the Congress met Agreable to Appointment & this day it was Resolved that they enter upon the Consideration of American grievances Monday next. Here a Greater Martial Spirit prevails if possible, than I have been describing in Virginia & Maryland. They have 28 Companies Com pleat which make near 2000 Men who March out to the Common & go thro their Exercises twice a Day regularly. Scarce any thing But Warlike Musick is to be heard in the Streets, there are Several Com panies of Quakers only, and many of them beside enrolled in Other Companies promiscuously. Tis sayed they will in a few days have 3000 Men under Arms ready to defend their Liberties. They are raising Men in New York & all the Northern Governments, the Yorkers I am told by their Delegates are determined to Defend their Liberties 8c since the Action between the Kings Troops 8c the Provin cials scarcely a Tory is to be found amongst them. I herewith inclose you a paper in which is a List of the Killed 8c Wounded of the Kings Troops, But ’tis said this is not Genuine, a Much greater Number being Actually Killed. On the side of the Bostonians 37 were Killed outright 4 are Missing 8c I forget The Number of Wounded I think thirty odd. Thus you have the fullest Account I am Able to give of these mat ters and as the Accot. is so long twill not be in my power to Commun-
