May 11, 1775 341 nicate the same to any other of my Countrymen 8c friends but thro’ you. You may therefore remember me in the Strongest manner to Your Uncles, Capt Bright & others of my particular Friends. Shew them this Letter, and tell them it will be a Reflection on their Coun try to be Behind their neighbours, that it is Indispensibly necessary for them to Arm & form into a Company or Companies of Independants. When their Companies are full, 68 private Men each to Elect Officers Viz a Capt. 2 Leut. an Ensign 8c Subalterns, And to meet so often as possible 8c go thro the exercise, receive no Man but such as can be depended on, at the same Time reject none who will not dis credit the Company. If I live to return I shall most Chearfully Join any of my Countrymen even as a rank and file man, And as in the Common cause I am here exposed to danger that or any other diffi culties I shall not shun whilst I have any Blood in my Veins, But freely offer it in Support of the Liberties of my Country. Tell Your Uncles (the Clk 8c Sher.) it may not be prudent for them so far to engage, yet awhile, in any Company as to risk the losses of their of fices. But you, my Dear Boy, must become a Soldier 8c risk your life in Support of those invaluable Blessings, which once lost Posterity will never be able to regain. Some men I fear will start objections to the enrolling of Companies 8c exercising the Men 8c will say it will be acting against Government, that may be Answered "That it is not so” That we are only Qualifying ourselves and preparing to defend our Country 8c Support our Liberties. I can say no more at present But that May God Almighty protect you all 8c his Blessing Attend your good endeavors, is the Ardent prayer of, My Dear Child, Your Affec tionate Father Rd Caswell P.S. Only shew this Letter to such as I have described above 8c don’t let it be Copied, Consult Capt Bright 8cc. RC (Nc-Ar) . N. C. Colonial Records, 9:1247-50. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. ‘William Caswell (d. 1787?), son of Richard Caswell, and subsequently a captain in the Fifth North Carolina Continental Regiment and a brigadier general of North Carolina militia. The younger Caswell had accompanied the North Carolina delegation to the First Congress in 1774 and had kept an itinerary of their travel to and from Philadelphia as well as a record of their attendance at various social functions in that city while Congress was in session. Although internal evidence clearly reveals that this itinerary was compiled by William, the editor of The Colonial Records of North Carolina mistakenly ascribed its authorship to Richard Caswell. N. C. Colonial Records, 9:1064-70; N. C. State Records, 13:754-56; and J. Bryan Grimes, comp., North Carolina Wills and Inventories . . . (Raleigh: Edwards and Broughton, 1912) , pp. 118-22.
