342 May 11, 1775 Silas Deane’s Diary [May 11, 1775] Thursday 11th. Mr. Dushay opened with an excellent prayer. Day spent in examining Certifi [cate] s and ordered that on Monday Next the Congress should resolve itself into a Commee. of the whole house on the State of America. Affidavits 8cc respectg. Lexington Battle read & ordered to the presses. MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 90. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philadelphia 11th May 1775 I arived here the 9th, in company with the Virginia delegates. Yesterday the Congress met when all the Provinces that sent dela- gates before were Represented except Rhode Island, the two Gover nors from that Colony are expected in a day or two. Mr Randolph is Chosen President & C. Thompson Secretary. Doctr. Franklin arived here on Fryday last and on Saturday was appointed a Delagate, by the assembly of this Province. They also added Mr. Thomas Willing 8c Mr. Wilson to the number. Galloway has turned apostate; he strug gled hard in the House of assembly to get a majority to Condemn the proceedings of the late Congress, 8c to Petition the King 8cc. as the as sembly of New York had done. By this Step he has lost the Confid ence of all ranks of People. A few days ago a Box was left at his Lodgings in this City directed for Jos. Galloway Esqr. He opened it before several Gentleman then present and was much surprised to find it contained a Halter with a note in these words “all the Satisfac tion you can now give your injured Country is to make a proper use of this and rid the World of a Damned Scoundrell.” He is gone off no body can tell where tho it is thought to New York. 1 All kinds of business is at hand here. Nothing is heard but the sound of Drums 8c Fifes, all Ranks 8c Degrees of men are in Arms learning the Manual Exercise Evolution 8c the management of Artillery. They have now in this City Twenty eight Companies of Foot of 68 men each including Officers all of whom are out twice every day in Training. Several more Companies are forming, they have also two Companies of Light Horse in short it is impossible to describe the Spirit of these people and the alteration they have undergone since I left them in December last. All the Quakers except a few of the old Rigid ones have taken up arms, there is not one Company without several of these people in it, and I am told one or two of the Companies are composed entirely of Quakers. The people of this Province in general
