May 16, 1775 351 man of the Talbot County Committee of Observation, believed that the meeting of the next convention, which later met July 26, 1775, should be postponed. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:381; and Herbert Klingelhofer, “The Cautious Revolution: Maryland and the Movement toward Independence: 1774-1776,” Md. Hist. Ma gazine 60 (September 1965) : 262. Samuel Ward’s Diary [May 15, 1775] 15th. A Number of Members arrived. The Secry allowed to em ploy Tim[oth]y Mallock [Matlack] as Clerk under an Oath of Se- cresy; a Petition from the Murray’s; 1 ordered that the Congress be resolved into a Comee. to morrow as above; New York asked Advice relative to the Troops; the Delegate from St. Johns did not insist on a Voice save where the Colos. were not called. Arrived myself at this Time. Advice given to N. York. Memorial from Shoemaker & Drink er relative to Vessels &c. A Comee. appointed to consider what Posts in Prov. N. York ought to be guarded, Colo. Washington &c. The Comee. then adjd. MS (RHi) . Mohn and Robert Murray, Quaker merchants from New York, had come under fire from the committees of observation of New York City and Elizabethtown, N. J., for landing goods from England in the latter province in contravention of the nonimportation agreement. Congress responded to the Murray’s petition “desiring to be restored to their former situation with respect to their commercial privi- ledges” by resolving on the 27th that henceforth all violators of the association should seek redress for their offenses from the provincial conventions of the colonies in which the violations had taken place. JCC, 2:53, 67; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:144-48. Silas Deane’s Diary [May 16, 1775] Tuesday 15th [i.e. 16th] Letter or Petition from Jno. Murray, & Robt. Murray read, &: ordered to lie on the Table. Resolved into a Committee of the whole house, M. Tilghman in the Chair. Col. Lee opens the Debate and reads proposals for raising an Army. Mr. Lynch seconds him—also Mr. Jno Rutledge who insists that previously some other points must be settled, such as do We aim at independancy? or do We only ask for a Restoration of Rights & put ting of Us on Our old footing—speaks long & well. Mr. Robt. R. Livingston succeeds him in the same way—short.
