360 May 18, 1775 Regiment of Light Dragoons, later served as adjutant general of the British Army at New York. DAB; and D. A. Story, The de Lanceys, A Romance of a Great Family with Notes on Those Allied Families who Remained Loyal to the British Crown during the Revolutionary War ([London]: Thomas Nelson & Sons, [1931]), pp. 18-19, 74, 88-90. George Read to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir 18th May 1775. I reced yours attended with Fifty Pounds paid of the Boston sub scriptions by Mr. Tattlow but have heard nothing from Mr. Tybout though I sent your Letter the day after I came up. 1 It is said an ex press came to Town last Evening with an Account of Some Connect icut Volunteers under the Command of A Coll. Arnold had taken Possession of the Fort at Ticonderoga or Crown Point in which there is near 200 Cannon &c—this to prevent the Canadians marching down into the New England Colonies. Upon the Paymt. of the 1000 dollars to Mr. Samuel Adams as Chairman of the Committee of Do nations at Boston he desired that I should in the Name of that Com- ittee &c. give thanks to the Contributors. I am in haste yor. most Hble Servt. Geo. Read [P.S.] We know not how long we may stay here—all secret as be fore. RC (DeHi) . 1 Identification of the recipient of this letter rests upon the statement by William T. Read that the letter was originally found in the papers of Nicholas Van Dyke (1738-89) , who was a member of the Newcastle committee soliciting funds for the relief of Boston. William T. Read, Life and Correspondence of George Read, a Signer of the Declaration of Independence . . . (Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1870) , pp. 102-3; and DAB. Samuel Ward’s Diary [May 18, 1775] 18th. Met, Mr. Hopkins joined us. Rules of the last Congress adopted. News of taking Ticonderoga. 1 Mr. Brown gave much Intel ligence relative to Canada &c. Resolution that the Stores be removed from Ticonderoga &c to the So. End of Lake George &c, a post to be taken there, an acct, of the Cannon to be taken &c. MS (RHi) . r This day Congress received a letter of May 15 from Isaac Low, chairman of the
