362 May 19, 1775 for the Colony of the Massachusetts, and your opinion of Their Prudence and Integrity, are very obliging. I was with my Friend Mr Hancock near the Scene of Action at Lexington on the 19th of April. The authentick Accounts lately publishd prevent the Necessity of troubling you with my Detail of that memorable Battle. I rejoyce that my Countrymen had adhered punctually to the Direction of the Gen eral Congress, and were at length driven to Resistance through Ne cessity. I think they may now justly claim the Support of the confed erated Colonies. I was much pleasd to be informd by you, that your Colony had observd a Day of Fasting and Humiliation. It is upon the Blessing of God alone that we must depend for a happy Issue to our virtuous Struggle. I will write to Mr Veazy by another opportunity, having at present not sufficient Leisure. Pray present my unfeigned Regards to your Brother, and be assured that I am sincerely Your obliged and affectionate Friend and Countryman. Sami Adams RC (Bentley Courtenay, Madison, Wis., 1972). 1 Months later, following the delivery of donations from Maryland for the "Poor of Boston,” Adams wrote another letter of thanks. "When I returned to New England last August, I found that a Part of the Committee appointed by the Town of Boston to receive Donations remained Prisoners there, & the rest were dispersed over that & the neighboring Colonies, so that I was at a Loss to whom to commit the Monies ... a Committee of both Houses was appointed. ... I then delivered the Monies I had received into the Hands of Moses Gill Esqr. a Gentleman of Fortune & Character. ... As the Assembly did me the Honor to make me the Chairman, I am directed by the Committee to return you their hearty thanks for the Trouble you have taken upon yourself for the Comfort of our distressed Brethren.” Adams to Samuel Purviance, Jr., November 17, 1775, The Collector 58 (November 1945) : 190. Silas Deane to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Philadelphia 19th, May 1775 Sir, Your Letter of the 15th we received last Evening by Mott and Now inclose the resolutions of the Congress respecting the Military Stores at Ticonderoga. 1 Have not Time to mention at large the Rea sons which induced them to prefer a Removal of the Stores, to the keeping the post but in general, that it was judged, a post on this Side might [be] seized on, and kept at much less expence, &: to equall ad vantage. Shall write Your Honor, more particularly by Mr Mott, who does not set out, untill Monday next meantime am with the greatest Truth & regard. Your Honors most Obedient &: Humble Servant Silas Dean P.S. Mr MotLgoes earlier than I expected, am sorry he was not ear-
