May 23, 1775 373 watch over them, & not let the evil Day be anticipated by any Re missness or Want of firmness on our Part—-for that would not only be highly criminal towards our King & Country, but also leave an ev erlasting Stain on the present Age, if We meanly shake off the Task of preventing it from Ourselves & leave it for Posterity to struggle with as they can.” Captain Harvey’s Speech. “I should not rise to trouble You this Day, could I reconcile to my own breast the giving a silent Vote on a Question upon which de pends not only the Existence of this Country but the Happiness of Millions. If conciliatory Measures shall fail, this Country has no Al ternative left, but to make use of that power they enjoy, under Heav en, for the protection of the whole Empire; 8c to shew the Americans that as our Ancestors deluged this Country with their Blood, to gain this Constitution for Us, We like Men, in Defence of faction at Home & Rebellion abroad, are determined, in glorious Emulation of their Example to transmit it perfect & unimpair’d to Posterity or perish in the Attempt.” Sir Wm. Mayne’s Speech. “Whether the Americans will accede to this (meaning his Motion 20th of February) I know not. If they reject it, their Blood must be on their own Heads.” Ld. North’s Speech. “The Question lies within a very narrow Compass. It is simply whether We shall abandon our Claims and at once give up every Advantage arising both from the Sovereignty & the Commerce; or whether to ensure both We shall resort to the Measures indispensably necessary on such an occasion.” id. “Life itself is not worth keeping in a State of Uncertainty & Fear. Things are now brought to a Crisis. The Conflict must be borne, & I hope will never end, but in relinquishing our Connection with Ameri ca, or fixing them on a sure & lasting Basis.” Sir Wm. Meredith’s Speech. Yet he is against the Taxation of America. “If the Colonies reject just Conditions, they must be reduced to unconditional Obedience.” id. [i.e. Ld North’s Speech]. Even Governor Pownall so long advocating our Cause now ap proves of the Ministerial Violence. A great Number of other Speak ers. It is evident that these Persons spoke not only their own Senti ments but those of the whole House. A proof of this &[...] of a most memorable Nature. A 9th Reason. 3 When Lord North made his Motion on 20 Febru ary, the whole Body of Court Troops in the House were likely to de sert him—only because his proposal had something like the Appear ance of a conciliatory Measure, till Sir George Elliot rose 8c “desired them not to divide among themselves”—8c afforded Mr. Dunning an opportunity of exercising his severest Wit upon him. 4 10. The Measures of Administration are popular at Home. A
