374 May 23, 1775 great Number of indisputable Evidences to this proposition now in Town from Friends to America. Almost the whole landed Interest is against Us—-the whole Hosts of persons in Office, with their immense Connections composing the vast Mass of People breathed upon 8c tainted by Ministerial Influence—almost the whole trading & manufac turing parts of the Nation not intimately connected with America—& very many of those who are thus connected. I can procure clear Evidence of these Facts. Who then are on our side? The Dissenters —parts of the Traders & Manufacturers immediately concerned in our Commerce—and the small Band of independent virtuous Spirits in the Kingdom. Besides the very Motion which appears so contemptible to us 8cc was not calculated merely for the Mind of America. It had 2 Objects. To divide [....] 5 The other was To render the Measures of Ad ministration still more popular in that Kingdom by holding up to the People there the Appearance of Humanity, Condescension, Forbear ance & I know not what gentle, generous Virtues—in descending from the dignified Preeminence of the Supreme Imperial State—& offering us a Plan of Reconciliation—Sc a Plan formed on the most equitable Principles of bringing the rich & luxurious Colonists to bear an equal share with the People of Great Britain of the heavy 8c op pressive Burthens under which the latter labour 8c ease them at least of one half of their Loads, or as the Motion artfully expresses it— “contributing their proportion to the Common Defense." A motion so reasonable says Mr. Jenkinson “that if the Americans reject it, it leaves them without Excuse in the Eyes of all Mankind.” 6 And in Case this mild system of Negotiation, Reconciliation 8c Benignity is rejected by the Colonies, to kindle the People of Great Britain into tenfold Rage against Us. This system is level to the understanding of every Porter 8c Chairman, and who knows here, but this may be the Effect of this Maneuvre? Who knows, but this may be the Effect of their receiving Intelligence of the unhappy Hostages in Massachus- sets Bay—it may terrify but it may also irritate. General Gage has procured Depositions to prove our brave Brethren fired first. This Circumstance, contemptible as it is, 8cc, may cause them to be re garded as Aggressors. They may be provoked at such a Dishonor to their Arms returned from despised America 8c may be the more animated to restore their Lustre by revenging the Disgrace. No person here knows with Cer tainty how these several Events may operate on the Minds of a high spirited People—drunk with Success. The Reliance of Administra tion on N.Y. has led them into a great Error. In Policy they should have sent a greater Force. They may correct their Error. The most stupid Pilots will shun the Shoals upon which they have once been aground. They will know they have nothing now but their own
