May 23, 1775 375 strength to trust to. Will so great an Empire give up such a Cause in- gloriously? The whole Band of Ministers will know that nothing but the utmost vigor & Dispatch can save them. They will remember that the last glorious War began with British Defeat—& this of Colonel Smith will be called a Trifle in Comparison with that Misfortune. 7 We have been once already deceived in our Calculations of the Ef fects to be produced by Our Firmness. The Impression made at Home by the Magnanimity of the late Congress was not so great as there was Reason to apprehend. The only Rescript We have received to our humble Petition to our Sovereign was written in Blood. Yet notwithstanding all these Reasons, I am inclined to think that the Unanimity & Firmness of these Colonies will within a 12 month dethrone the Ministry. Yet I fear there is more of Hope than Reason in that Expectation. One Thing I am sure of—that no Man here is sure—that our Firmness & Unanimity let it be ever so extraordinary, will procure Us immediate Relief of our Grievances by a change of Ministry or of ministerial Meas ures. It is impolitic then in the utmost Degree to depend on the realizing an Event, which is indisputably uncertain. Our Firmness & Unanimity may conduct Us into the Miseries of War or the Blessings of Peace. We have no Prophet among us who can predict which part of the alternative will take Place. In this Situation our Affairs will stand if We only pre pare vigorously for War. There is another Mode We may pursue. 2dly. We may prepare as has been mentioned and also petition. There is great Reason to believe that a Petition may be so framed as to be more likely to open a Way to our Relief than the former. That dwelt on our Rights—several of which are denied at Home. Those Rights have therein been fully & recently set forth & claimed. A Repetition is needless. A Petition now may proceed on the single unexceptionable Ground of praying Relief from our Fears &: Jealousies occasioned by the System of Colonial Administration adopted since the Conclusion of the late War. To this prayer may be added Expression of Loyalty to the King—Attachment to his person, Family & Government— Love to our Parent State—our Readiness & Willingness at all Times with our Lives &: Fortunes to support, maintain &: defend the Inter ests of his Majesty & our Mother Country by every Effort that can be reasonably expected from the most faithful Subjects &: the most affectionate Colonists that for this purpose We shall always be dis posed cheerfully to contribute to the Common Defence as the public Exigencies may require and our Circumstances will permit, & ear nestly beseech that by doing Justice to the Sincerity of these profes sions in believing them to be as they are most strictly true; we may be restored by the abolishing our apprehensions to the happy & fer-
