376 May 23, 1775 vently wished for Opportunity of expressing in the most acceptable Manner our unfeigned Devotion to his Majesty 8c the State from which We derive our Origin. I have very particular Reasons to believe it will produce good Ef fects. But still it will be uncertain how far such a Petition may be sat isfactory. If it produces no favourable Effect; the same Events must happen as if We had only prepared for War. And while Great Britain is silent from Notions of Dignity 8c America from Notions of Firm ness each rushes on blind with their respective Passions to the De struction of the other. Is there a Necessity for this Mode of Conduct that may lead Us into an useless Effusion of Blood? Or can any thing less than abso lute Necessity justify such a Conduct in the Sight of the Creator not only of Us but of our Enemies? While We are expecting Concessions from them, 8c they are ex pecting Concessions from Us—our Trade stagnates—our Merchants 8c Citizens, our helpless Women Sc Children 8c aged are reduced to Distress—some to poverty—8c every Species of Wretchedness—our best & dearest Blood is sluicing from our Veins—Sc all the Variegated Miseries Sc Horrors of War are advancing 8c surrounding Us—Sc offers to us not even the Choice of Calamities—shocking as such a Choice might be—but close compacted Complication of them—circularly complete Sc utterly inevitable. 3dly. We may prepare, petition, 8c send Agents to treat of an Accom modation. In order to determine whether this is not the proper Time to treat, I would beg Leave to call the Attention of Gentlemen to 3 Points re lating immediately to ourselves—Sc to 3 other Points relating to Great Britain. As to the 3 for America. 1st. We are now successful in the first Engagement. 2. We are united from one End of the Continent to the other.We are vigorously preparing for Resistance—If not fully prepared already. 3. Common Sense 8c soundness declare, that We ought therefore to treat if no other Reason offered. Certain it is that Delay is as much our Ally as Winter was the Ally of the King of Prussia in the late War. It is almost universally so in defensive Wars. This is a defensive War on our Part. Three Points immediately relating to Great Britain to be regarded. 1. Changes or Accidents in the Court or Kingdom. 2. Al terations in the Affairs of Europe. 3. Our Commercial Opposition should be allowed Time to be felt. Blisters applied to extract Humours from gross diseased Bodies sometimes prevent the Necessity of bleeding. But after applying Blis ters, a prudent Physician will certainly strive to avoid bleeding if there is any Danger in the Operation untill the Blisters have been al lowed Time to draw—8c during that Interval he will endeavour to keep the Patient in as calm a Temper as may be possible.
