May 23, 1775 377 There are some other Considerations that deserve the Attention of Gentlemen. We have not yet tasted deeply of that bitter Cup called the Fortunes of War. A bloody Battle lost—The peculiar Distress of the brave Defenders of American Liberties in the Massachusetts Bay —The Multitude thrown out of Employ by the Loss of their Fisher ies & the stoppage of their other Trade—Disease breaking out among their Troops unaccustomed to the Confinement of an Encampment —Divisions in any one province which might interrupt provisions or Relief going to their Aid by Land—the Enemies superiority forbid ding it by Sea—The Difficulties from Distance if no other Objections —The Danger of Insurrection by Negroes in Southern Colonies—In cursions of Canadians & Indians upon the Northern Colonies—Inci dental Proposals to disunite Us—false Hopes—selfish Designs—Giv ing up the Point of Taxation or some other partial Concession that might be greedily catched at by a peaceable People jaded out with the tedium of Civil Discords—may all operate hereafter to our Dis advantage. Great Britain lately had the golden Opportunity in her own Hands. Had any mighty spirit presided over her Colonies, he would have sent over 20,000 Men & a formidable naval Armament to Bos ton. The bravest Man in this Assembly would have then felt his seat not quite so easy as it is now. Then thus armed He should have pre pared Terms fit for Freemen to offer & for Freemen to receive. She missed the lucky Moments—Thanks be to the Traytors, so far meri torious even in their Guilt, who persuaded her We were a divided People & she is sending over 3 Generals &: 3 thousand Men to con quer this Continent. She has lost a Battle—& all America is more united & more deter mined beyond all Comparison than We were during the Course of the last Winter. Now the Turn is in our Favor. Let us improve it. I suppose no Gentleman will deny, that one of these Events will take place, if the War continues. Either it will be on our Part success ful, or unsuccessful. If unsuccessful We may pretty well guess the Consequences. I leave them to every Gentleman’s Guess. But sup pose We have every Success our warmest Wishes & Resentments could prompt us to desire—over whom shall We triumph? Our Fath ers—From whom We derive our Lives—& every Blessing of our Lives. We know the Value of their protection against the Powers of Europe. Our Fathers are high spirited. An ill directed Courage may so far exhaust her strength already tottering under an enormous Bur then of Debt, as to render her an unequal Match for her old Ene mies. I must confess my greatest Fear for America in this Contest is least she should receive the deepest Wounds thro the sides of Great Britain. For whatever may be the Events of this Contest, We must at last return to the Place from which We set off. The Ship of Our
