382 May 23, 1775 Continent has been put since that Petition was sent Home, gives Us a Right to ask for more than We then asked. We ought to secure to our Countrymen by profiting of their noble spirit now roused among them —by gaining a fixed Establishment of some other Points. I will men tion only two—The Independence of our Judges by their holding their Commissions during Good Behaviour and a permanent &: unal terable Settlement of the most important parts of our Commerce—to be confirmed by Statutes 8c Acts of our Assemblies. Acknowledging Right of Regulation will lead to this Establishment. I mean not to de part absolutely from the Ground taken by the late Congress but to quit it gradually by Treaty. I move, that it be resolved— 8 MS (PHi) . In the hand of John Dickinson. 1 This MS is one of several surviving documents pertaining to Dickinson's attempts during the third week of May to marshall support for his plan to initiate negotiations with Great Britain. These notes undoubtedly relate to debates in the committee of the whole that took place shortly before the committee reported out the resolutions adopted by Congress on May 25 and 26. Silas Deane’s record of the debates in the committee strongly suggest that Dickinson delivered these remarks on the 23d or 24th. See Deane’s Diary, May 23 and 24, 1775. Dickinson’s notes, written in a small hand and full of interlineations and crowded marginalia, present great difficulties in preparing a printed text, and since Dickinson repeatedly used abbreviations representing a form of personal short hand, no attempt has been made here to indicate the expansion of abbreviations. It has been possible, nevertheless, to reconstruct nearly the entire document, and this printed text undoubtedly reflects the views Dickinson expressed at this time. An earlier draft of these notes bears the label: “Arguments in Congress in Favour of a Reconciliation & sending over persons to lay the Colonies at the Feet of his Majesty & prayfing] for Peace.” The resolves Dickinson offered at the conclusion of the speech survive in another, greatly expanded version and have been printed as a separate entry. Little is known about the background of the debate in which Dickinson delivered these remarks. A report that reached London early in July suggests that Dickinson had previously proposed linking negotiations to an offer of an annual grant to the crown, but that the idea met a hostile reception. In any event, if Dickinson did propose such a subsidy he did not long advocate it, for there is no mention of the topic in his surviving notes, the comments of other delegates, or the resolutions he offered. The account printed in London obviously became garbled in transmission, for certainly the mention of Otis is erroneous, but it is possible that Dickinson could have delivered a lengthy speech on this topic before May 18. It is interesting to note that on this date the delegates considered the capture of Ticonderoga (news of which reached Philadelphia the night of May 17) , an event that substantially altered the circumstances confronting Congress. Thus it is not unlike ly that if Dickinson had suggested an annual grant before the 18th, the proposal encountered considerable criticism, and subsequent events led him to drop the idea. The full text of the London Chronicle report, whose accuracy and prove nance must remain conjectural, was printed as follows: “By letters from New York there is an account of the proceedings of the Congress at Philadelphia, as low down as the 18th of May; by which it appears, that from what had transpired of their proceedings, they were very far from being unanimous; that Mr. Dickenson had, in a most elaborate speech of two hours long, proposed a plan of reconcilia-
