384 May 23, 1775 in the Conclusion be destructive to both Countries, that for the pur pose of contributing by all the Means in our Power to the Promotion and Completion of this most desirable Accommodation We will present an humble & dutiful Petition to his Majesty, pray ing Relief from our Fears and Jealousies occasioned by the System of Colonial Administration adopted since the Conclusion of the late War—expressing our Loyalty to the King—our Attachment to his person, Family and Government—our Love to our Parent State— our Desire to preserve our usual Connection with her—our Readi ness & Willingness at all Times with our Lives 8c Fortunes to support maintain 8c defend the Interests & Rights of his Majesty and of that State by every Effort that can be reasonably expected from the most faithful Subjects & the most affectionate Colonists—that for effect ing these purposes we shall ever be cheerfully dispos’d to contribute to the Common Defence by Aids of Money, and also of Men, as the public Exegencies and our Circumstances will permit. Earnestly be seeching his Majesty, that Justice may be done to [t/te] Sincerity of these professions by believing them to be as We solemnly declare them to be, strictly true, that so the Relief for which We supplicate being afforded us by the Wisdom 8c Goodness of his Majesty & Par liament We may be restored to the happy and ardently wished for Opportunity of demonstrating, as we are resolved with one Mind to do, in the [most] acceptable Manner, our Gratitude for the attention given to our prayers, and our [. . .] Majesty & that beloved Coun try from [. . .] rejoice & glory that we derive our Origin. 3. That we will send Home part of our Body in behalf of them selves 8c the other Petitioners to present the said Petition 8c to treat of an Accommodation. That for this purpose, we will give Instructions to our said Agents, suited as nearly as may be to every possible State of Affairs that may exist on their Arrival in England, or may after wards happen there, containing full & most exact Directions how they are to conduct themselves in every Part of their Behaviour, and what Concessions and what Demands they are to make in every Event favorable or unfavorable that shall occurr, reserving to our selves an Exemption from all Obligation upon Ourselves or our Con stituents by any Act of our said Agents untill the same shall be rati fied by this Body. 4. That after We have resolv’d and agreed upon the said Demands 8c Concessions, and have thereby fully settled the Conditions of Ac commodation, the obtaining of which we are determined to persevere in our Opposition to the Measures of the British Ministry, at all Haz ards, we will associate and confederate with one another in our own Names 8c in the Name 8c on the behalf of our respective Constituents, in the most solemn Manner, by the Ties of Honour, Virtue, & the Wellfare of our Country, to continue our said opposition in the Man-
