May 23, 1775 385 ner that shall be directed by this Congress and by any succeeding Congress to be appointed by the Inhabitants of the Colonies repre sented in this Congress, by our most Strenuous efforts & utmost vig our, untill we obtain such Redress of the Grievances of these Colo nies, which this Congress shall determine as aforesaid to insist on. That we will furnish in due Time our respective Quotas of Men & Money, for the Service and during the Time, to be agreed on, and that We or our respective Colonies shall not & will not accommodate or treat of an Accommodation but jointly with all the Colonies repre sented in this Congress. 5. That We will write a Letter to General Gage, informing him that we are making the most vigorous preparations for Resistance against the British Forces & the Defence and Preservation of our Lives 8c Liberties, that the Colonies represented in this Congress have entered into a solemn association 8c Confederacy, to carry on their Opposition to the Measures of the British Ministry, at all Hazards, and never to treat of an Accommodation unless it be jointly. That we have a strong Hope founded on an humble Confidence in the protect ing Goodness of Divine Providence, and the Means which he has graciously been pleased to put into our Hands, of a successful Issue to our just Exertions, should We be reduced to the Necessity of em ploying them, yet at the same Time We most earnesly desire, that a Period may be put to this unhappy Dispute. That for this purpose, We intend to present an humble 8c dutiful Petition to his Majesty, 8c to send over some Members of this Congress with proposals of Ac commodation which, we hope, will bring this Contest to an End, 8c restore the former Harmony between the Mother Country 8c these Colonies. That We judge it proper to give him this Information, that if he can think it consistent with the Orders he has receiv’d from Ad ministration, to forbear further Hostilities against the Inhabitants of these Colonies or any of them, and to remove the Apprehensions of such Hostilities, untill an answer can be receiv’d to our Answer 8c proposals, the farther Effusion of British Blood by British Hands may be stopt—8c mutual Resentments be no more heighten’d by mu tual sufferings. That he will favour Us with an Answer to this Letter as soon as possible—and if he does not chuse to return an answer, that we will consider this Silence [as a] Refusal to forbear Hostilities as is above mentioned. 6. That we will approve of the Resistance that has been made 8c is now making in the Colony of the Massachusetts Bay against the Bri tish Forces, and that We with our Lives 8c Fortunes support them therein. 7. That the Delegates of the Colony of the Massachusetts Bay be requested to procure 8c give to this Congress Information of the Names and Places of Abode while living of the Officers 8c Men who
