396 May 23, 1775 delphia: Lindsay & Blakiston, 1849), p. 521. 1 Humphry Marshall (1722-1801), Pennsylvania botanist, corresponded with Franklin chiefly on matters of scientific interest. DAB; and Darlington, Memorials, pp. 485-93, 515-23. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell Dear Sir: Philadelphia, 23d May, 1775. I know your anxiety to be informed what is doing in Congress, and wish I was at liberty to gratify it, but the secrecy enjoined the mem bers puts it out of my power to give you any information worth your attention. You will see by the papers which I send to Mr. Smith, the advice that is given to the people of New York relative to their city; to those papers I must beg leave to refer you for news; you will find by them the New Yorkers have taken an active share in the opposi tion; a tory dare not show his head amongst them; the cry of liberty is irresistible in most of the colonies; a military spirit has seized all orders of people; this city is full of armed men; they have now 28 companies of foot and two of horse; each company consists of 68 men including officers; they are called out twice every day to learn the military discipline, and I can assure you some of the companies perform it equal to any regular troops. Capt. Gillis makes so short a stay here that I fear I shall not have it in my power to send any shoes by him. I have urged the shoe makers to get them done, but they had so many orders not completed when I applied, that I fear the ladies and yourself must wait till the next opportunity for them. I received the shell per Capt. Gillis, and shall get it made into a box for Miss Penny as soon as possible. The ladies have always my best wishes, make my compliments acceptable to them. I have wrote to Mr. Johnston, so has Mr. Hooper; if he is not at home when Gillis arrives, I desire you will open our letters to him, and read the contents before you send them. I am, very respectfully, dear sir, Your obliged and very humble servant, Joseph Hewes [P.S.] I beg you will excuse haste. I now trespass on Congress hours. MS not found; reprinted from Griffith J. McRee, Life and Correspondence of James Iredell, One of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, 2 vols. (New York: D. Appleton and Co., 1857-58) , 1:254-55. Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philadelphia 23d May 1775 I wrote to you 1 some days ago by a Mr. Reed who said he should
