May 23, 1775 397 pass thro’ Edenton, but he went off before I had finished my Letter. I sent it by a vessel to Currituck. We have done very little in Con gress, the Secrecy injoyned the Members puts it out of my power to communicate any thing worth your attention. The Congress had en tered into a Resolve that no Vessel shall be suffered to Load for Newfoundland, St Johns, Nova Scotia, or the British Fishery on any of the Coasts of America, to take place immediately, thereby to pre vent the British Fishery from being supplied with Provisions 8c Stores. It was moved to amend this resolve by prohibiting all impor tation from these places to take place instantly, to this it was objected and very Justly too, that many persons in these places were indebted to the other Colonies and that such a resolve would prevent them from sending their Effects to this 8c other of our ports, and would in jure ourselves. So the whole matter was put of[f] for some days in order to debate the latter part of the resolve, the first part being agreed to Unanimously, this prevents me from sending the resolve to the Edenton and Chowan Committee. Advice has been given to the People of New York, this you will see in the papers which I have sent to Mr. Smith. 2 The New Yorkers have stepped forward and tak en an Active share on the opposition, not a Tory to be seen amongst them, all ranks of People are embarked in the Common cause deter mined to oppose ministerial Vengeance. A military spirit has dif fused itself in an extraordinary manner thro’ this Province, it is said a Majority of the Quakers have taken up Arms certain it is that many in this City have done it, some of which are Officers and appear in Uniform. This strong current of opposition to ministerial measures in some instances bordering on licentiousness calls for the most prudent and temperate deliberations of the Congress. To bear and forebear is a precept of Morality calculated exactly for these times and as we must draw the Sword I hope Necessity, not resentment will influence our measures. It is highly necessary that North Carolina should be puting her self in a State of defence, a Company of Militia ought to be formed in each County and Trained frequently. You prevailed on Hooper and my self to be elected delegates to attend the Congress, you have been instrumental in puting the halter about our Necks, if we should be obliged to promise too much for our Province we shall want your abilities and influence to carry us through. In the interim you ought, I think, to Exert yourself in geting the Province put in a state of defence, encourage the People to Associate in Companies for that purpose and to make themselves acquainted with Military dis cipline, this you may do without appearing active in it yourself. Hooper calls to me from the next room and says he is writing a long Letter to you, he is much better qualified to give you information than I am therefore I beg leave to refer you to him for a further ac count of politicks.
