398 May 23, 1775 When you have read our Letters 8c the Newspapers I believe you will think it unnecessary to give any Orders for Goods, no person here thinks of it at present, if any alteration should happen I will give you the earliest account I possibly can of it. I have sent you all the Articles you mention in your letter of the 2d except [Stares Porter?] none of which can now be had. My best Compliments to your Family. Adieu, and believe that I am with great Sincerity, Dr Sir, Your obliged huml Sert Joseph Hewes RC (CSmH) . 'This letter is unaddressed, but that Hewes intended it for Samuel John ston (1733-1816) can be deduced from his comment that William Hooper was in “the next room and says he is writing a long letter to you,” as Hooper did indeed do this day. Johnston, a lawyer, assemblyman, governor, and delegate to Congress, 1780-82, was one of the most influential leaders in the North Carolina revolution ary movement. Bio. Dir. Cong.; and DAB. ’ Congress’ resolve of May 15, urging New Yorkers to remain on the defensive for as long as possible after the arrival of British regulars in their province, was printed in Dunlap's Pennsylvania Packet, or the General Advertiser on the 22d. William Hooper to Samuel Johnston Dear Johnston Philadelphia May 23 1775 The close attention which I am compelled to pay to the business of the congress scarce gives me an opportunity to pay my duty to my friends. As we meet at 9 oClock in the morning and set till 4 in the Afternoon you will readily conceive that the little leisure we have is not sufficient for the common functions of life 8c exercise to keep us in health. While I am writing I encroach upon congress hours, 8c if I could furnish you with any thing entertaining it might be some apolo gy for the transgression, but the strict secrecy which is enjoined upon the members leaves us at large to communicate nothing worthy atten tion, that happens within the Walls of the State House. Let it suffice that the most perfect harmony subsists among the Members, the Character of the New Yorkers is no longer suspicious, they take a forward and an active share in the Opposition, all ranks of people amongst them are embarked in the common cause and are sacredly resolved to preserve the Cargoe or perish with the ship. The few Tories amongst them are silent, the cry of liberty is irre sistible. The Clergy who are never happy but when dabbling in fac tion have met a just reward for their misguided Zeal 8c have been compelled, (6 of them) to seek protection on board a Kings Ship. Rivington follows their fortunes, & his printing Shop which forged Calumny and sedition for the whole Continent is shut up. New York must now become the seat of War, the Taking of Ticonderoga will
