May 24, 1775 405 Province in such Opposition and their necessary defence against all future Attempts of the like nature. That for this purpose as well as to guard against all Invasions or Insurrections which may be meditated or attempted in other Colo nies, The Number of Men following ought to be raised and em bodied in the Sevl. Colonies & Provinces that is to say in New Hampshire in the Massachusets Bay in Rhode Island and Providence Plantation in Connecticut in New York in New Jersey in Pensa. in the three Counties on Delaware in Maryland in Virginia in North Carolina in So. Carolina 8c [in the] Parish of St. Johns in Georgia to be emploied, as occasion may require, either for the [. . .] defence and security of the Colony wherein they are raised, as for the Assistance of any other part [of] America where their Services may be wanting. Besides which the Militia throughout the Whole ought to be provided with Arms and Amunition 8c kept in con stant training 8c exercise in the best manner. Resolved, That for raising, Arming 8c Maintaining the Men so to be embodied, a sum of money ought to be raised by a Continental contribution in the following Proportione, that is to say, By New Hamp. £ By the Massachusets Bay £ By Rhode Island and Providence Plantation £ By Connecticut £ By New York £ By New Jersey £ By Pennsylvania £ By the Counties on Delaware £ By Maryland £ By Virginia £ By North Carolina By South Carolina £ and by the Parish of St. Johns in Georgia £ And in Case money cannot be borrowed immediately in any Colo ny to answer their Quota as aforesaid, such Colony to Issue notes of credit for the Redemption of which [the Public Fai] th of such Colo ny shall be pledged by their Provincial Convention, and in the sd. [Parish] of St. Johns such Security given as shall be approved of by [ ] 2 —the Redemption to be made by annual Proportions of the sum to be redeemed in each Province, so as to Call in 8c sink the whole within years after the Restoration of Peace between Great Britn. 8c the Colonies and the Respective Legislatures of the latter shall have it their power to provide for such Redemptn. in a Constitutional way: And it ought to be earnestly recommended to every freind of American liberty to receive such notes in all pay ments &: use their best endeavours to give them Credit 8c assist their Genl. Currency throughout the Continent. The Genl, form to be as follows— “The Public Faith of the Colony of Virginia is hereby Pledged for the Redemption of this Bill (which is to pass for the sum of ten shill ings) by the Payment of its amount in gold at per Ounce, in
