May 28, 1775 415 of your departure for the Manour. By a Line from Brother Robert I learn that you arrived safe in a fine passage of only one day. I now long much to hear of your and my dear Children’s Health which will make me easy; for I thank God I am myself as well, and as free from my late disorder, as if I never had been attacked, and considering the Business I am sent upon in tolerable Spirits, being quite at home with Mr and Sister Patterson who treat me with great Regard And Atten tion. I hope our Stay here will not be very long, tho’ we have not gone very far in Business as it takes time to hear the different Views and Sentiments of the members, and to produce one way of thinking, be fore essential points can be determined. Every body here, who is capable, is learning military discipline, not excluding the young Quakers of whom there are several Compa nies. Gentlemen of the greatest Fortune and Distinction have accept ed the Command of the Regiments Mr Dickinson and Mr Cadwal- lader being of the number. I wish their Example may have Influence in our province. You know my Opinion that every Province will here after be respectable only in proportion to their knowledge in Discip line and their Resolution in Spirit. I have no news to write to you. It is still uncertain whether any Troops will come to New York. If there should a sufficient Force will be raised to prevent this doing us any Injury. Kiss my dear Children for me. Pay my dutiful regards to our par ents and friends and believe me to be ever My dearest Polly Your most faithful 8c most affectionate Husband Jas Duane RC (NHi). Richard Henry Lee to Gouverneur Morris Dr. Sir, Philadelphia 28 May [17] 75 The friends of virtuous liberty in New York have certainly effect ed a most important change in the political system of that flourishing City. I congratulate you Sir and your worthy Associates in this happy revolution. It is most certain that a profligate Ministry have greatly relied on the assistance of your fine fertile province for carrying into execution their cruel System. A System by which existing millions, and Millions yet unborn are to be plunged into the abyss of Slavery, and of consequence deprived of every glorious distinction that marks the Man from the Brute. But happily for the cause of humanity, the Colonies are now united, and may bid defiance to Tyranny and its in famous Abettors. You will see that Mr. Rivingtons case is involved in all of a similar [nature?] which are to be determined on by the
