416 May 28, 1775 Colony Conventions where the offence is committed. 1 I am sorry, for the honor of human Nature, that this Man should have so prosti tuted himself, in support of a cause the most detestable that ever dis graced Mankind. But he repents and should be forgiven. It is not yet too late to exert his powers in defence of the liberty and just rights of a much injured Country. I wish you happy Sir and assure You that I am, with singular esteem, Sir your friend and Countryman Richd Hen Lee FC (PPAmP) . 1 The New York City Committee of Observation had requested that Congress consider the case against James Rivington for publication of divisive statements in his newspaper, and Morris had urged Lee to support a favorable ruling for Rivington. However, as Lee implies, Congress had already decided that all cases involving violations of the association should be determined by the appropriate provincial conventions. See the resolve of May 27, 1775, JCC, 2:67. Documents concerning Rivington’s case are printed in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:726, 836-37, 899-900. John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Phyladelphia May 29. 1775 Our amiable Friend Hancock, who by the Way is our President, is to send his Servant, tomorrow for Cambridge. I am to send a few Lines by him. If his Man should come to you to deliver this Letter, treat him very kindly, because he is a kind, humane, clever Fellow. My Friend Joseph Bass, very cleverly caught the Small Pox, in two days after we arrived here, by Inoculation and has walked about the streets, every day since, and has got quite over it and quite well. He had about a Dozen Pimples upon the whole. Let his Father and Friends know this. We are distressed here for Want of Intelligence and Information from you and from Boston, Cambridge &c. &c. &c. We have no regu lar Advices. I received one kind Letter from you, in one from Coll. Warren. An excellent Letter, I had from him. It has done him great Honour, and me much good. My Duty and Love to all. I have had miserable Health and blind Eyes almost ever since I left you, but, I found Dr. Young here, who after scolding at me, quantum sufficit for not taking his Advice, has pill’d and electuary’d me into pretty good Order. My Eyes are better, my Head is better, and so are my Spirits. Private. 1 The Congress will support the Massachusetts. There is a good Spirit here. But We have an amazing Field of Business, before us. When I shall have the Joy of Meeting you and our little ones, I know not.
