May 29, 1775 417 The military Spirit which runs through the Continent is truly amazing. This City turns out 2000 Men every day. Mr. Dickinson is a Coll. Mr. Reed a Lt. Coll. Mr. Mifflin a Major. He ought to have been a Genl, for he has been the animating Soul of the whole. Coll. Washington appears at Congress in his Uniform and, by his great Experience and Abilities in military Matters, is of much service to Us. Oh that I was a Soldier! I will be. I am reading military Books. Every Body must and will, and shall be a soldier. John Adams RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:207-8. 1 Appears in the margin in MS. John Adams to Joseph Palmer Dr Sir Phyladelphia May 29. 1775 We have had but little Intelligence from Cambridge or any Part of Massachusetts since I left it. Your Difficulties press upon you So fast, as to take up all your Time I Suppose—so do ours. I believe no Assembly ever had more extensive and complicated objects before them than our Congress. We shall be united. But I can Say no more. Mr. Aquilla Hall and Mr Josias Carvill Hall the Bearers of this will inform you of the state of the Colonies. They are two young mil itary adventurers—Volunteers, joining the Army in the Massachu setts, to gain Experience & skill. They are of one of the first Families in Maryland and have independent Fortunes. Their Letters will make Impressions on the Southern Colonies. It is of Importance that they be treated with Respect. I beg you would introduce them to our Friends, &c &c. My Respects to your Family & to all Friends. News of every Kind will be told you by the Bearers. I am yr Friend John Adams RC (CSmH) . Addressed: “To Coll Joseph Palmer, Braintree, to be found at Watertown or Cambridge probably, favd. by Mr Hall.’’ John Adams to John Winthrop Dr Sir Phyladelphia May 29. 1775 The Bearers of this are two young Gentlemen from Maryland. Aquilla Hall and Josias Carvill Hall, both of one of the best Families in Maryland, and both of independent Fortunes. Their Errand to
