May 1775 425 George Washington to George William Fairfax Philadelphia May 31st. 1775. Discusses matters pertaining to Fairfax’s business affairs. Mentions Lexington and Concord and en closes affidavits taken after the engagement. 1 “General Gage ac knowledges that the detachment under Lieutenant Colonel Smith was sent out to destroy private property; or, in other Words, to destroy a Magazine which self preservation obliged the Inhabitants to estab lish. And he also confesses, in effect at least, that his Men made a very precipitate retreat from Concord, notwithstanding the reinforce ment under Lord Piercy; the last of which may serve to convince Lord Sandwich (and others of the same sentiment) that the Ameri cans will fight for their Liberties and property, however pusilani- mous, in his Lordship’s Eye, they may appear in other respects. “From the best Accounts I have been able to collect of that affair; indeed from every one, I believe the fact, stripped of all colouring, to be plainly this, that if the retreat had not been as precipitate as it was (and God knows it could not well have been more so) the Ministeri al Troops must have surrendered, or been totally cut off, For they had not arrived in Charlestown (under cover of their Ships) half an hour, before a powerful body of Men from Marblehead and Salem were at their heels, and must, if they had happened to have been up one hour sooner, inevitably intercepted their retreat to Charlestown. Unhappy it is though to reflect, that a Brother’s Sword has been sheathed in a Brother’s breast, and that, the once happy and peaceful plains of America are either to be drenched with Blood, or Inhabited by Slaves. Sad alternative! But can a virtuous Man hesitate in his choice?” Tr (DLC) . Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 3:290-92. 1 Affidavits concerning the engagement at Lexington and Concord are printed in JCC, 2:28-44. Benjamin Franklin’s Proposed Resolutions [May ? 1775] Resolved, That the Thanks of this Congress, and of all America, and in our Opinion of Britain likewise, are due to the Right Honourable the Earl of Chatham; for his benevolent Endeavours to accommodate the present unhappy Differences, and particularly for the wise 8c excel lent Plan he offer’d in the House of Lords for that purpose, which was rejected by their Lordships without Consideration, and which if it had been received 8c attended to, might have been the Basis of a Reconciliation 8c lasting Agreement. 1
