426 May 1775 Resolved, That the Thanks of the Congress be presented likewise to Edmund Burke Esqr. and to David Hartley, Esq. for their generous Endea vours in the same common Service to the whole British Empire. Resolved, That the Thanks of this Congress be also presented to the Right Reverend The Bishop of St. Asaph, for his most excellent Sermon & Speech on American Affairs. 2 And to all the noble Lords 8c Com moners in both Houses of Parliament who have been pleased to es pouse the Cause of our much injured 8c oppressed Country. MS (PPAmP) . In the hand of Benjamin Franklin and endorsed by Franklin: “Resolutions of Thanks.” Although it is undated, it seems probable that Franklin drafted the document during the early weeks of the Second Congress. 1 Chatham’s plan “for settling the Troubles in America,” which he had devel oped in collaboration with Franklin, was introduced in the House of Lords on February 1, 1775, and rejected the same day by a vote of 61 to 32. Carl Van Doren, Benjamin Franklin (Garden City, N. Y.: Garden City Publishing Co., 1941), pp. 510-13; and Great Britain, The Parliamentary History of England from the Earli est Period to the Year 1803, 36 vols. (London: T. C. Hansard, 1806-20) , 18:198-216. An account of Chatham’s plan and its rejection was printed in Dunlap's Pennsyl vania Packet or, the General Advertiser, April 17, 1775. 3 See Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney, September 12, 1774, note 2. Fragment of a Speech in Congress [May? 1775] 1 The great God, Sir, who is the searcher of all things, will witness for me, that I have spoken to you, from the bottom and purity of my heart. We have heard that this is an arduous consideration. And surely, Sir, we have considered it earnestly. I may think of every gen tleman here, as I know of myself, that, for seven years past, this question has filled the day with anxious thought, and the night with care. The God to whom we appeal, must judge us. If the grievances, of which we complain, did not come upon us unprovoked and unex pected—when our hearts were filled wth respectful affection for our parent state, and with loyalty to our King—let slavery, the worst of human ills, be our portion. Nothing less than seven years of insulted complaints and reiterated wrongs, could have shaken such rooted sentiments. Unhappily for us, submission and slavery are the same; and we have only the melancholy alternative left—of ruin or resist ance. The last petition* of this Congress to the king, contained all that our unhappy situation could suggest. It represented our grievances; *In 1774, presented last Christmas. [Almon’s footnote.]
