June 2, 1775 433 correspondence with the enemy.” DAB; and Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 13:380-98. He came to Philadelphia as the emissary of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress car rying a May 16 letter requesting the advice of Congress on assuming “the reins of civil government” in Massachusetts and urging that the Congress take control of the army gathered around Boston. This letter is printed in JCC, 2:76-78. Adams’ recollection of Congress’ response to the letter appears in his autobiography, Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:351-52. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Friday June 2d. 1775 This comes by express, this Moment setting out, have therefore only to say that I am well, 1 but the City grows extreme warm 8c I wish for the Northward Air but must wish for a While in Vain. I am in hopes, that the Congress will, on their Adjournment, appoint a large Committee of their Body to sit constantly at Hartford or else where near the scene of Action. I send You a Newspaper of To Day 8cc., 8c am 8cc S. Deane RC (CtHi). 1 Deane wrote to his wife May 31, 1775, pleading "Want of Time” as the excuse for his infrequent and brief letters. CtHi. Benjamin Franklin to Nathaniel Seidel Reverend 8c dear Sir, Philada. June 2. 1775 I am much oblig’d by your kind Congratulations on my Return; and I rejoice to hear that the Brethren are well and prosper. 1 I am persuaded that the Congress will give no Encouragement to any to molest your People on Account of their Religious Principles; and tho’ much is not in my Power, I shall on every Occasion exert my self to discountenance and prevent such infamous Practices. Permit me however to give a little Hint in point of Prudence. I remember that you put yourselves into a good Posture of Defence at the Begin ning of the last War when I was at Bethlehem; and I then understood from my much respected Friend Bp. Spangenberg, that there were among the Brethren many who did not hold it unlawful to arm in a defensive War. If there still [are] any such among your young Men, perhaps it would not be amiss to permit them to learn the military Discipline among their Neighbours, as this might conciliate those who at present express some Resentment; and having Arms in Read iness for all who may be able and willing to use them, will be a gen eral Means of Protection against Enemies of all kinds. But a Decla ration of your Society, that tho’ they cannot in conscience compell
