434 June 2, 1775 their young Men to learn the use of Arms, yet they do not restrain such as are so disposed, will operate in the Minds of People very greatly in your Favour. Excuse my Presumption in offering Advice, which indeed may be of little Value, but proceeds from a Heart fill’d with Affection and Respect for a Society I have long highly es teem’d, and among whom I have many valuable Friends. I am with great Regard & Veneration, Revd. Sir, Your most obedi ent humble Servant B Franklin [P.S.] Written in great Haste. RC (PBMCA) . 1 Bishop Seidel’s letter to Franklin, asking that he be the Moravians’ "Advocate" in Congress and use his influence on behalf of measures permitting "every Reli gious Society [to] enjoy their Privileges full & undisturbed, as long as they do not act against their Country,” is printed in PMHB 29 (1905) : 245-46. The status of pacifists in Pennsylvania was brought before Congress at the beginning of July by the Lancaster County Committee of Correspondence, but the delegates sidestepped the issue and left it to the Pennsylvania Assembly, which on June 30 had passed a series of resolves to prevent ill feeling and to permit pacifists to make contribu tions for their defense in lieu of bearing arms. See Pennsylvania Delegates to the Lancaster County Committee, July 6, 1775. Thomas Johnson, Jr., to Samuel Purviance, Jr. My dear sr. Phila. 2d June 1775 I am sorry to hear of your Indisposition. Perhaps it is not without some Degree of Selfishness that I wish an Establishment of your Health and as the most likely Means of it approve your resolution to go to Fred [erick] or some other place where there’s a good Air &: for a while endeavour to unload your Mind of its oppressing Anxiety. It grieves my Soul that my own Countrymen who have not only tasted but eaten of the fruits of Liberty should be such ungrateful Niggards as to refuse the Return of a pittance for Our preservation out of the profusion of her Bounty which she smilingly bestowed on them. If such alone could feel the [sting?] of Despotism so far as might serve for their Condition it would be my second wish that they should. It is far from certain that any Troops will be sent to N York. If there should I am in Hopes things will be put on such a footing in that Quarter that they will not be able to make a garrisoned Town of the City or penetrate into the Country. The American Army is much too strong for the Regulars in the Massachusetts. As Wm Lee writes his Brother not more than 2000 Troops will be sent even if so we may certainly by acting on the Defensive protract the Business and give a fair Chance for a favourable Operation of our Commercial System. But whether the ardour of the people their Resentment, perpetually
