June 3, 1775 439 only to Inform you of Our progress to this place, & at this time what we are att Liberty to Communicate from the Congress you will from time to time See in the public papers. There is no doubt but the Con gress will approve and Support the Measures Which have been taken by the New England Colonies & I think we have got New York now Compleatly taken in. The advice given to New York with respect to the Troops that might be attempted to be landed there was in Conse quence of their strong Solicitation to preserve their City from ruin. 1 It was said to be Impossible to prevent their landing & that an Imme diate Attack would Induce the Men of Warr to lay the City in ruins. There is Care taken to have Sufficient Batteries in the most Conven ient places up along Hudsons river to prevent any King’s Ships or Cutters going up there. New York are raising 3 or 4000 Men. There are preparations making in every quarter but Unhappily No or but Very little powder except in the New England Colonies. We have just now receivd letters from Albany that Guy Johnson has lately been much Alarmd, is fortifying, 8c Collected a Number of his Irish Roman Catholicks in that County to protect him, and has Alarmd all the Indians in that quarter pretending that he has heard the New England people are coming to take him Sc his family 8c make him their prisoner. But the Majistrates of Schenectida 8c of Albany have had a talk with the Indians, Assured them of the falsity of that report by which the Indians are quieted & give the Strongest Assur ance they will take no part in the dispute Between great Britain & her Colonies Unless their Superintended Johnson is Molested. If he is they must protect him. I hope he will soon be quieted. The Express is now only waiting for me therefore cannot one quarter finish my let ter. We Understand Genii Burgoyne 8cc are arived. If so be on your guard for I think you may depend upon a Violent push from him. He will rather Sacrifice all the English Troop than suffer the disgrace of being Cooped up by you Yankees therefore keep a good look out. I hope if he make Any Attempt you will draw & decoye him into the Country by a retreating fire &: then you may have him from every quarter. I must break of[f] in this spot. Youll therefore wait for more in my Next. The Conduct of Connecticutt is highly Approved here. Our Govrs letters are much Esteemd. God bless you all Suc ceed 8c prosper you. I hope the Army will run no great risques at first for but little benefit. In Utmost haste from your sincere friend 8c Hbe Servt Elipht Dyer [P.S.] I have Inclosed you a print sent to the Congress by the Cham [b] erlain of London as it is said. 2 RC (CtHi). 1 See resolution of May 15, 1775. JCC, 2:52. 2 Probably the address of the mayor and aiderman of London to the king, April
