440 June 3, 1775 10, 1775, supporting the American cause, and the king’s response, expressing “the utmost astonishment” that his subjects were “encouraging the rebellious disposition ... of my Colonies in North America." Copies of these documents, reprinted from the London Gazette, April 11, 1775, arrived in America at the end of May. Ezekiel Russell, printer of Salem, Mass., reprinted them in broadside form under the date May 29, 1775. Charles Evans, American Bibliography, 12 vols. (Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34) , No. 14163; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1853-54. Subsequently they were reprinted in several of the American newspa pers. John Jay’s Draft Petition to the King [June 3-19? 1775] 1 To the Kings most excellent Majesty The Petition of the freeholders & Freemen of the Colonies of New Hampshire, Massachuses Bay, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pensylvania, the on Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina & the Parish of St Johns in the Colony of Georgia, by their Representatives convened in general Congress at the City of Philadelphia the Day of 1775. Most humbly sheweth That your Majestys American Subjects bound to your Majesty by the strongest Ties of Allegeance 8c affection and attached to their Parent Country by every Bond that can unite Societies, deplore with the deepest Concern the continuance of that System of colonial Ad ministration which for twelve Years past has filled the minds of the loyal Inhabitants of North America with apprehensions of the most alarming Nature. That reposing the utmost Confidence in the paternal Care of their Prince and the Justice of the British Nation they were urged by the perilous Situation of their Liberties to sollicit his Majesty’s Attention by their late Petition to their real & unmerited Greivances, and to re quest his royal Interposition in their Behalf. That tho disappointed in their Expectations of Relief they still re member their Duty to their Sovereign, & imputing the Rigour of their Treatment to insidious Counsels 8c wicked Misrepresentation, they again beg Leave to entreat for Justice & to request only that Portion of Liberty to which God and the Constitution have given them Rights. That Nothing but the Overruling Laws of self Preservation could ever have induced them to pursue any Measures which might be deemed offensive to their King or disrespectful to the British Nation, and that they ardently desire an opportunity of manifesting their Fi delity to the one and evincing their affection for the other.
