442 June 3, 1775 petition, largely the work of Dickinson, on June 19, which Congress finally ap proved, apparently with only a few minor amendments, on July 5. Congress then entrusted the petition to Richard Penn for presentation to George HI, but the king refused to receive it. JCC, 2:65, 79-80, 100, 126-27, 158-62; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:627; Thomas Jefferson, The Works of Thomas Jefferson, ed. Paul Leicester Ford, 12 vols. (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-5), 1:17-18; Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:317-18; and NYHS Collections 11 (1878) : 284-85. The present text is an early draft by John Jay of the second petition to the king. Although Jay’s draft and Dickinson’s petition are both conciliatory in tone, they are dissimilar in nearly all other respects. It is not known exactly when Jay composed this draft, but he probably did so sometime between the appointment of the committee and the presentation of its report to Congress. It is also impossible to state what use was made of Jay’s draft, but since Jay proposed that the king appoint commissioners to inquire into American grievances and that the colonial legislatures confirm Parliament’s right to regulate American commerce, it can be assumed that the committee rejected it because it was too conciliatory. New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress Gent. Philadelphia, 3rd June, 1775. We have received your several letters, and communicated such of your papers to the Congress as were intended for their inspection. Your plan for raising money we are much pleased with, though we have some doubt of its being adopted; however, as the reasons on which it is founded, appear to us to be conclusive, we shall use our endeavours to carry it through. Till the success is known, you will, we dare say, see a propriety in keeping the whole secret. We observe with pleasure the attention of our Colony to Indian af fairs, as they are really of the highest importance. Should you con ceive the interposition of the Congress necessary, you will let us know the mode in which you think it will be most effectual. You inquire whether the direction relative to the militia of New- York was intended to extend farther than that city and county. In an swer to this, we must inform you that it was the design of the Con gress that the whole Province should be well armed and disciplined. 1 We wish to hear that you have received some supply of powder, as we fear that none is to be procured here; the people conceiving they have not a sufficient stock for their own defence. We believe, howev er, that Connecticut will take care to supply their troops at Ticonder oga with that article, as the command of that post is for the present vested in their officers, owing to your repeated declaration of your in ability to furnish the arms and ammunition necessary for its defence. We think it an object of great consequence, to know in whom you would wish to vest the command of the Continental Army in our
