June 5, 1775 445 Philip Schuyler to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen N. York [i.e. Philadelphia] June 4th, 1775. As I am ordered by the Continental Congress to liquidate the ac counts of the people employed in the reduction of Ticonderoga, that they may be paid, and as Messrs. [Ethan] Allen and [Seth] Warner were concerned, there will be money due to them; and as they are in want of some, I could wish you to advance them thirty pounds, and to make it a Continental charge, for which I shall debit them in their account with the public. I am, gentlemen, Your most obedient hum ble servant, Ph. Schuyler. MS not found; reprinted from Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:10. Benjamin Franklin to Thomas Life Philadelphia June 5. 1775. Instructs Life, agent in London for the Connecticut Assembly, to withdraw Franklin’s petition in a legal ap peal which no longer seems worth prosecuting, “hostilities being commenced by General Gage against America, and a Civil War be gun, which I have no Chance of living to see the End of, being 70 Years of Age.” Tr (William Salt Library, Stafford, England, U.K. Courtesy the Earl of Dartmouth) . Joseph Hewes to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philadelphia 5th June 1775 I wrote a long Letter to you by Captain Gilles, and now would write a much longer if I was at liberty to mention the business taken up by the Congress, but that I cannot do till the injunction of Secrecy is taken of[f]. They have much before them, scarce a day passes without the Arival of an express from some quarter, and altho’ Ne cessity strongly urges that they should be speedy in their determina tions, yet they proceed very slowly. I wish to God you was here that I might advise with you on some matters of great importance. I could say a thousand things to you in my Chamber that I cannot by any means put on paper. I am exceedingly uneasy (so are my Col leagues) not that I think we are doing any thing but what Necessity will Justify, but I fear we shall be obliged to promise for our Colony
