446 June 5, 1775 much more than it will perform and perhaps more than it is able to bear. When a large extensive Country Loses its Trade, when its Ports are all Shutt up and all exportation ceases, will there be Virtue enough found in that Country to bear heavy Taxes with patience. Suppose a Country, no matter where, should be under such circum stances, and Necessity should oblige the inhabitants to raise a large Army for their defence, how is it to be paid? Suppose the exigences of that country should demand one million Sterlg. per Annum, how is it to be raised? how made? how sunk? I will not trouble you far ther with imaginary Countries, but beg leave to call your attention to your Own, where I think it will be absolutely Necessary to have a Provincial Convention immediately. I think Mr. Harvey may appoint some day in August for the Meeting, an express should be sent to ev ery County with Letters to some of the most popular Men that are friendly to our cause, and great care should be taken to have as full a representation as possible. Some matters will be laid before them that will require the utmost exertions of every friend to American Liberty amongst you. I cannot pretend to say when the Congress will break up, perhaps I may be able to guess at it a month hence. It has been often proposed by some of our Members out of Doors to Adjourn to Hartford or New haven in Connecticut in Order that we might be near the seat of Action, but some of the Southern Gentlemen have not yet given their Consent, nor do I think they ever will. Hooper and myself are willing. I shall be pleased with the Change, it would afford me an opportunity of Visiting the Camp of the American Army near Boston which I want much to see. My best Compliments are offerd to the Ladies of your family, to Mr. Iredell and the Ladies there and to Mrs. Dawson & her family. Caswell & Hooper Join in respectfull Salutations to you with, Dear Sir, Your mo Obed hum Servant Joseph Hewes [P.S.] I have given Mr Underhill some News papers he will show them to you—see my Letter to Mr Smith. RC (NN facsimile). Extract printed in Burnett, Letters, 1:112-13. RC incomplete; missing words supplied from Burnett. William Hooper to Samuel Johnston My dear Johnston Philadelphia June 5th 1775 I wrote you lately by Mr Hewes’s Vessell. I have nothing to add but to request of you to exert your utmost influence to prevail upon the people to enroll themselves in Companies, sacredly to attend to the preservation of what little Gunpowder remains amongst them, 8c
