June 7, 1775 455 compensate our Losses. Abstracted from this Consideration we are doing our Duty to which we must be contented to sacrifice every oth er Object. I can yet form no Judgement how long the Congress will sit. There are Subjects before us of great Magnitude and Difficulty which re quire time to discuss and Arrange; and much as I long to be with my Friends at the Manour I must be patient. This family is well. It is extremely uncertain whether you will see any of them this Summer tho’ they ardently wish for that pleasure. Hood the Collector is run off to England, & the whole Charge of the Customs rests upon Mr Patterson. He has applied for Leave of Ab sence; but whether he will obtain it; or make use of it if he succeeds, is equally uncertain, as he pays great Attention to his Trust; & per sonally inspects every Transaction of the office. He seems concerned that you have not in a long time favoured him with a Letter. I am much obliged to him and my sister for the truly polite and affection ate attention they are pleased to pay me. Both of them Join me in our most dutiful and Affectionate Regards to yourself Mamma &: the Family. Be pleased to present mine to my dearest Polly & our little ones. I have missed no opportunity of writing to her. I hope she keeps up her Spirits and uses moderate Exercise; and that my daugh ter attends to her Improvement: and my son not too troublesome. I am dear & honord Sir Your ever dutiful & affect. Son & most Obedi ent Servant Jas. Duane RC (NHpR) . Endorsed by Livingston: "A letter from Son Duane Red 15 June 1775.” 1 Robert Livingston (1708-90), third lord of Livingston Manor and father of Duane’s wife Maria (“Polly”) . Livingston held no public office during the Revolu tion but supported the American cause by allowing the revolutionary government in New York to make use of his iron mines and foundry. Edwin Brockhoist Livingston, The Livingstons of Livingston Manor . . . (New York: Knickerbocker Press, 1910), pp. 227, 545. William Hooper’s? Draft Resolve [June 7-12, 1775] 1 Resolved that it be and hereby it is recommended to the Inhabit ants of the united Colonies in America of all Denominations That Thursday the 20th day of July next be set apart as a day of public humiliation fasting and prayer, that a total Abstenence from Servile labor and recreation be observed and all their religious Assemblies Solemnly Convened to humble themselves before God under the heavy Judgments felt and threatened to confess our manifold Sins, to implore the forgiveness of Heaven, {that a sincere repentance &
