456 June 7, 1775 reformation may influence our future Conduct) and that a Blessing may descend on the husbandry, Manufactures 8c other lawful Em ployments of this people and especially that the Union of these American Colonies in defence of their Just Rights 8c priviledges may be preserved, confirmed and prospered, that the Congresses may be inspired with Wisdom, that Great Britain and its Rulers may have their eyes opened to discern the things that shall make for the peace and Happiness of the Nation and all its Connections And that Amer ica may soon behold a Gracious interposition of Heaven for the re dress of her many Grievances, the restoration of her invaded Liber ties, a reconciliation with the parent State upon terms Constitutional and Honourable to them both and the Security of them to the latest posterity. MS (MHi). 1 On June 7, 1775, Congress resolved that the colonies should observe a day of fasting and prayer on the following July 20, and appointed John Adams, William Hooper, and Robert Treat Paine as a committee to draft a resolution to this effect. This committee reported a resolution to Congress on June 12, and the delegates approved it the same day. The present resolve, written sometime between the 7th and the 12th, is an early draft of the fast resolution adopted by Congress, and is much milder than the final resolve in substance and in tone. Authorship of this draft has been conjecturally assigned to Hooper, because the original MS, although located in John Adams’ papers, was definitely not written by Adams or Paine and is in a hand closely resembling Hooper’s normally less florid penmanship. JCC, 2:81, 87-88. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [June 7, 1775] Cool Rainy. Din’d Dr Franklins. This Evning Majr. Skene arrived from London 8c he 8c his Papers taken into Custody. 1 MS (MHi) . 1 Philip Skene (1725-1810) , former British army officer and owner of a vast estate in the Lake Champlain region, was appointed lieutenant governor of Ticonderoga and Crown Point while in London in January 1775. Skene’s return to America acquired added significance when warnings were received that he had been autho rized to bribe members of Congress into adopting a conciliatory position. When Skene arrived in Philadelphia he was immediately confined, and a congressional committee was appointed to examine his papers. On June 10, Congress placed Skene on parole, but his activities in Philadelphia continued to arouse such concern among the delegates, that in early July he was sent to Connecticut for imprisonment. He was subsequently released from prison in the fall of 1776. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography. For the official response of Con gress in the Skene affair, see JCC, 2:82, 86, 108, 126-27. In addition to numerous references to Skene in letters and diary entries of the delegates during the ensuing weeks, his departure for America is discussed in Stephen Sayre to Samuel Adams, April 4, 1775, NN, and Arthur Lee to Richard Henry Lee, April 7, 1775, ViU.
