458 June 8, 1775 Silas Deane’s Diary [June 8, 1775] Thursday June 8th. C[ap]t. Riley arrived, saw the review after which attended Congress—reed, a Lettr. from Govr. Trumbull dated 1st of June. Wrote the followg. Lettrs. to Mrs. Deane, Mr. Hosmer, Mr. Root, Mr. Mumford, Mr. Webb, to Govr. Trumbull in Answer to his—in the Evening waited on Majr. Skene by Order of the Con gress, and examined papers &C. 1 Cost—4s 6d there 8c at Burns’s. MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 89. 1 John Adams, Thomas Mifflin, and Deane were appointed as a committee to examine the papers of Philip Skene and to report to Congress "whatever may relate to the present dispute between Great Britain and America." JCC, 2:82. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Thursday June 8th 1775 Capt. Riley arrived this Morning, which with the review, and the arrival of Maj'r. Skene the elder, from London, has so engaged Me that I cannot describe the review and can only say I wish You had seen it. Capt. Riley when arrived will describe it at large, Mr. Bowen the Bearer of this will call on you and can describe the Situation of Affairs here. Majr. Skene is close prisoner, with the Officers arrived with him. I am to have an interview with them this AfterNoon by Order, and may write you more on this Subject as I have Oppy 8c Liberty. The 20th of July will be kept as an Universal Fast thro’ the Colonies as I expect You will Soon See in the papers. I am with Complimts. To all Freinds My Dear Yours for ever S D RC (CtHi) . Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Sr Philadelphia June the 8th 1775 I wrote to you a few days since by an express who came from your Comtee att Cambridge. As he was waiting I wrote in so much hurry that I know not what was Contained in that letter. You will therefore take it for better or for worse. Last evening we had two ships arrived at this place from London in which we have Intelligence I think to about the 25th of April. Ev ery thing seemd tolerabley quiet in England. Lds. North 8c Dats- mouth had full expectation that their late proposal for the Colonys to
