462 June 8, 1775 Hern. It should contain all the Hay the Island yeilds or rather more; they may cut a Path to the Pond. I hope your Wheat field is plowed. The small Pox hath been extremely thick in all Parts of the Town but none of Us have taken it that We know of 8c as it now abates We have some Hopes that We may escape it, should it be otherwise that entire Confidence which We all ought to have in the Wisdom 8c Goodness of God will support us under it; Yesterday compleated half a Century with Me 8c I may yet say few 8c evil have been my Days, if my great Master hath any further Business for me to do he will cer tainly continue Me here 8c I hope enable Me to see and do it. When he has no farther Service for Me I hope I shall chearfully retire 8c you as chearfully resign Me 8c happily experience the Truth of that gracious Promise “when my Father 8c Mother forsake Me the Lord will take Me up.” It is not in my Power to observe the Sabbath as I could wish but hope all of You will be careful of your Duty to God 8c your Father in that Respect. I am concerned about little Betsy. I hope her Sister will be careful of her in this as well as other Respects. By two Ships which arrived yesterday 8c brought News to 20th April last I find the Administration are resolved to compel us to sub mit. The Kings Answer to the Petition of the Lord Mayor 8c Aider man in our Favor breathes nothing but Slaughter but I trust under God that the Unanimity 8c Fortitude of this Country will disappoint our Enemies 8c establish our Liberty. 1 I inclose You the Papers for the remaining News. I want to write to your Bror. 8c Sister Greene 8c to your Aunts & your Uncle Greene but I have so many public Letters to write that I cannot this Opportunity. You must remember Me in the most affec tionate Manner to them 8c other Friends. Tell the Work People 8c those who serve Me that while I am here in continual Danger of my Life to preserve their Lives and Property They will surely be so grateful as to do Me all the Service in their Power. May God of his infinite Mercy preserve my dear Children. Your very affectionate Father. Sam Ward RC (RHi) . 1 See Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, June 3, 1775. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia 9th June 1775 Yours of the 1st is before Us. Ours in reply to yours of the 27th Ulto informed of the Resolution of the Congress, respecting the Post of Ticonderoga, and the mode of supplying the Troops there with
