June 9, 1775 463 provisions &C. 1 We need not therefore enlarge on that Subject fur ther than say, that We have the pleasure to find the measures taken by the Genl Assembly of Our Colony highly and universally ap proved of, by the Congress, & the readiness Our Troops were in has been considered as a very important circumstance in Our favour. Major Skeen arrived here from London the 7th Inst. & brout papers to the 25th April in which are little or nothing material, he had a Commission to command at Crown Point & Ticonderoga, with an handsome Salary, he is now made close prisoner, as is also an Officer who came with him. They were under examination last Evening, but nothing has as yet transpired to the public. The Congress have ap pointed the 20th of July next to be Observed as a Day of fasting and prayer thro all the Colonies, and shall send you in our next, the reso lution at large. We wrote for an Estimate, of the expence of the Col ony, or what it would probably amount To, for the present Cam paign, also for a Copy of the Act respecting Post Office, the former may be of very great Consequence to the Colony, to be sent us in season that we may early lay the same before the Congress. A most surprizing military ardor spreads universally through this City, and province, in which thare are it is said Thirty thousand Men constantly exercising. Yesterday, three Battallions of this City were reviewed, and their proficiency for the Time they had been employed was surprizing to every one. We are with the most sincere respect Your Honors very Hume Servants Elipha Dyer Silas Deane [P.S.] Inclosed is a paper of last Evening. Tr (Ct). 1 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., May 31, 1775. Silas Deane’s Diary [June 9, 1775] Friday. At Congress at Night on board Ship and elsewhere examg. papers of Major Skene &c. Cost 5/. MS (CtHi). CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 92. Samuel Ward’s Diary [June 9, 1775] 9th. Report of the Comee. relative to the Massachuts. Bay read &:
