464 June 9, 1775 approved, the provin[cia]l Congress to write to the Towns to chuse Representatives, they to chose Councillors which Assembly & Coun cillors to execute the Powers of Govt, until &C. 1 MS (RHi) . *JCC, 2:83-84. Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. My dear Son Philadelphia 9th June 1775 Tho fatigued with thinking & writing almost the whole Day I can not omit this favourable Opportunity of writing to You. I mentioned amongst other Things the Necessity of your Mens being clean, & dressing their Victuals properly. In the Beginning of the last War great Numbers died wholly for Want of Care. See that your People have vegetables if to be got, that they lie as dry as con veniently may be, in one Word at the same time that you keep up a proper Authority take all possible Care of them. Dont suffer them to be idle but on the other Hand dont make their Duty too severe. You’l remember my dear Son what I said to You before You left home, that I did not fear for You a cannon or musket Ball a Bayonet or any other Instrument of Death while you was virtuous, Vice is the only Enemy truly to be feared. Shun it in every Form if possible, es pecially in those Instances which I mentioned to You. She like other Deceivers will promise you much but however flowery & gay the Paths to which she may first lead you may be they certainly termi nate in Misery 8e Ruin. Dr. Church who does me the Favor to take Charge of this can tell You all the News from here. The Congress have taken many spirited measures which will transpire in Season; the Army may rely upon being effectually provided for & supported. Give my affectionate Regards to the General & all the officers. I think much of them and shall do every thing in my Power for their Service. I shall write to the Genl, the first Opportunity. I am Your very affec. Father Sam Ward RC (RHi) . Addressed: “To Capt. Samuel Ward in the Rhode Island Camp near Boston.” John Adams to Abigail Adams My Dear Phyladelphia. June 19. 1775 Dr. Church returns to Day, and with smarting Eyes, I must write
