June 10, 1775 465 a few Lines to you. I never had in my Life, such severe Duty to do, and was never worse qualified to do it. My Eyes depress my Spirits and my Health is quite infirm. Yet I keep about and attend Congress very constantly. 1 I wish I could write freely to you my Dear, but I can not. The Scene before me, is complicated enough. It requires better Eyes and better Nerves than mine. Yet I will not despond. I will lay all Diffi culties prostrate at my feet. . . . 2 My Health and Life ought to be hazarded, in the Cause of my Country as well as yours, and all my friends. It is impossible to convey to you any adequate Idea of the Embar rassments, I am under. I wish that you and our Friends may not be in greater Distress than I am. I fear you are. Pray let me know as of ten as possible. Our Friends write to Mr 3 not to me, this time. They dont let us know the State of Boston People, nor the State of the Army in Boston, so exactly as I could wish. Two days ago, We saw a very wonderfull Phcenomenon in this City—a field Day, on which three Battailions of Soldiers were re viewed, making full two thousand Men. Battailion Men, Light Infan try, Grenadiers, Rifle Men, Light Horse, Artillery Men, with a fine train, all in Uniforms, going thro the manual Exercise and the Ma- neuvres, with remarkable Dexterity. All this has been accomplished in this City, since the 19th. of April. So sudden a formation of an Army never took Place any where. In Congress We are bound to secrecy: But, under the Rose, I be lieve, that ten thousand Men will be maintained in the Massachu setts, and five thousand in New York at the Continental Expence. We have a Major Skeene, just arrived from London with a Com mission to be Governer of Crown Point and Ticonderoga, and Sur veyor of the Woods &c., close Prisoner. 4 He must dispute for his Government with Arnold and Allen. My Love and Duty, where due. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:213-14. 1 In a second letter to Abigail of this date, Adams noted optimistically that Dr. Church had given him a lotion, “which has helped my Eyes so much that I hope you will hear from me oftener than you have done.” On the other hand, he added, “When I shall come home I know not. We have Business enough before Us to detain us, untill the 31. of next December. No Assembly ever had a greater Number of great Objects before them. Provinces, Nations, Empires are small Things, before Us. I wish We were good Architects.” Adams, Family Correspond ence (Butterfield) , 1:214. 2 Suspension points in MS. 3 Adams probably meant “Mr.” John Hancock. For a similar complaint, see Adams to Moses Gill, this date, and Adams to Abigail Adams, July 4 and 7, 1775. 4 Adams was a member of the committee appointed to examine the papers of Skene. JCC, 2:82.
