470 June 10, 1775 carries a Recommendation to the other Colonies to Supply you with all the Powder they Can safely Spare. In great haste I am with Re spect Yr most humble Servt. Thomas Cushing P.S. Pray let me Hear from you Soon concerning my dear Country. Must refer you for particulars to Dr Church. RC (DLC). 1 See Congress’ resolution of June 9 advising the provincial congress on the resumption of government in Massachusetts. JCC, 2:83-84. The impact of Congress’ recommendation to resume government essentially under terms of the Massachu setts charter of 1691 has been discussed by Stephen E. Patterson, Political Parties in Revolutionary Massachusetts (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1973) , pp. 117-24. Thomas Cushing to Joseph Hawley Dear Sir Philadelphia June 10. 1775 I wrote you about Ten days ago by Messrs Halls, since which have not been favoured with any of your’s. 1 Inclosed you have a Vote of the Congress relative to our Peoples taking up Government, which I apprehend will Correspond with yr Sentiments. A motion was made in Congress that advice should be given to the present provincial Congress to chuse Councellors, but there being many objections to it, it was withdrawn. The Person that made the motion observd that the choice of Representatives would occasion great Delay— & that there could not at present be an Equal Representation as Boston would not be permitted by the General to chuse Representatives Upon this Oc casion. He was answered that the Delay would not be great, that it was best to adhere as near to the Charter as possible 8c not to vary from it but in Case of Absolute Necessity—that as to the Town of Boston either the present Provincial Congress, or the New Assembly could easily make some provision for their being Represented either by directing the late Inhabitants to meet at Cambridge or some other Town & chuse their Representatives or by divising some new Mode of Collecting the Voice of the People upon this Occasion. 2 As to giv ing a Credit to our Provincial Notes 8c the Regulation of the Army at or near Boston it will be determined upon very soon, I hope in a few days you will have the determinations of Congress upon these heads. It will therefore in my opinion be best to suspend any farther orgini- zation of the army till you hear further. There is an opinion prevail ing here, how well founded I cannot pretend to say, that when ad ministration has advice of the Battle at Lexinton 8c find that our People are determined to fight for their Libertie, that they will be for accomodating matters 8c will Readily hearken to any Proposals of
