472 June 10, 1775 Point near 200 St per An[nu]m for that. Surveyor of His Majty Woods at another Salary. I believe also to Command a Canada Regi ment. All this with his great plantation had opened his Views Amaz ingly but the whole prospect was suddenly closed. It is probable he will remain in Custody till Affairs are better setled & the officer with him. Am Sr Yr Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Let me hear from you as often as you please we did just now learn from N York paper that they have taken the Scarborough at Portsmouth but it does not gain Creditt. But I Quere why you may not play Vexation with some of their ships in a good season. RC (Ct) . A continuation of Dyer to Trumbull, June 8, 1775. John Hancock to Dorothy Quincy Philad’a, 10th June, 1775. “I am almost prevail’d on to think that my letters to my Aunt &: you are not read, for I cannot obtain a re ply, I have ask’d [a] million questions & not an answer to one. I beg’d you to let me know what things my Aunt wanted & you, and many other matters I wanted to know, but not one word in answer. I Really Take it extreme unkind, pray my D[ea]r use not so much Ceremony & Reservedness, why can’t you use freedom in writing, be not afraid of me, I want long Letters.” Encloses several articles for her personal use, and assures her that if she has additional needs “I will attend to all your Commands.” 1 MS not found; abstracted from Henry C. Walsh, “Three Letters from Hancock to ‘Dorothy Q’,” Netu England Magazine 12 (1892) : 532-33. 1 Hancock was engaged to marry Dorothy Quincy, who had been a guest of Thaddeus Burr in Fairfield, Conn., since her flight from Boston. They were married August 28, 1775, during the late summer recess of Congress. Extracts of two other letters of Hancock to Dorothy Quincy, written during this period and reflecting a similar concern for her reception of his presents and her refusal to write regularly, dated June 11 and July 2, 1775, are in Ellen C. D. Q. Woodbury, Dorothy Quincy Wife of John Hancock with Events of Her Time (Washington: Neale Publishing Company, 1901) , pp. 83-84. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Provincial Congress Gentlemen, Philadelphia June 10th. 1775 In Consequence of your Application to this Congress for Advice respecting a form of Government to be Adopted in the Massachu-
