June 10, 1775 473 setts Bay, under your present Circumstances, I am Directed by the Congress to Transmitt you their Resolution thereon, which is here Inclos’d. 1 I am also to Inform you that the Congress have been so pressed with Business that they have been prevented Determining upon the other matters mention’d in your Letters to them; but they will very soon come under their Consideration, & their Resolutions thereon shall be forwarded you. I also Inclose you a Resolve of Congress for furnishing our Army with Flour, this you will keep Secret, at least as far as the Nature of it will Admit, as the publication may give an Alarm, which may pre vent the good Effects of it. Last Evening Mr Fessenden your Express Arriv’d with your Dis patches of June 4th., 2 which I shall this Morning lay before the Con gress, and when Consider’d by Congress, their Determinations shall be immediately Transmitted you. I am, with much Esteem Gentlemen, Your most Obed, Huml Servt. John Hancock, President RC (M-Ar) . ’Congress approved a resolution June 9 declaring that no obedience was due to the Massachusetts Government Act of 1774 and recommending that the Massachu setts Provincial Congress make provisions for the election of a new assembly and council, which should “exercise the powers of Government” until such time as the king appointed a governor who would rule the colony "according to its charter.” JCC, 2:83-84. 2 In a letter to Elbridge Gerry of this date, Hancock made another reference to Fessenden’s arrival. “In Consequence of your Express last Eveng. I Call the Congress together early.” Extract of Hancock to Gerry, June 10, 1775, in The Collector 61 (July 1948) : item M1231. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Provincial Congress Gentlemen Philadelphia June 10th. 1775 By order of the Congress, I Transmit you the Inclose’d Resolu tions passed by the Congress this Morning. 1 The Necessity of the present Emergency Requires a Speedy Compliance with the first, and I need not Inform you that the Nature of the Service Requires it to be done with as much Secrecy as possible. I am also Directed by the Congress to Request you will please to Transmitt to them, as soon as may be, an Estimate of the Powder, Arms &: Ammunition in your Colony including private as well as publick Stocks. By Doctor Church this morning I forwarded you the Resolution of Congress Respecting the Mode of Government.
