474 June 10, 1775 I am Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock President [P.S.] The Inclosed Letters for the Lieut. Govr. of Rhode Island, & the Gentlemen of New Hampshire, 2 please immediately, on Receipt to Send off by Express; pray don’t fail. RC (M-Ar). 1 For these resolutions see JCC, 2:85-86. 3 In addition to these letters to Rhode Island and New Hampshire, Hancock sent a similar letter this day to Governor Jonathan Trumbull of Connecticut; all are virtually identical to the first two paragraphs of his communication to the Massa chusetts Provincial Congress. The letter to New Hampshire is printed in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:956. John Hancock to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen Philadelphia June 10th. 1775 1 The Inclosed Resolutions of this Congress I am Directed to Trans mitt you, and to Desire you will order it to be Executed in as Expedi tious & Secret manner as possible, Referring to your Judgement the most suitable place for Landing it & where there will be the least Risque of Interruption from the Ships of War. 2 You will please to Consign it to the Committee of Correspondence in each place with a Direction to forward the Flour to the army as soon possible. I have it also in Charge to Recommend to you that the Flour be Transported in small Quantities as there may be Danger of the Ene my. I am Gentlemen Your most obedt servt. John Hancock Presidt. RC (N). Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:3. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Under this date Hancock sent an identical letter to the Massachusetts Provin cial Congress. MHi. 2 On June 9, 1775, Congress approved resolutions requesting the New York Provincial Congress to supply the Continental Army at Boston with 5,000 barrels of flour, asking the Providence and Massachusetts Committees of Correspondence to forward these supplies to the army, and pledging congressional compensation for any expenses incurred by compliance with these requests. JCC, 2:84. Thomas Jefferson to St. George Tucker Dear Sir Wmsburgh June 10. 1774 [i.e., 1775] I am to acknoledge the receipt of your letter, and to scribble a line
