June 10, 1775 475 in answer, being just in the moment of setting out on my journey. The situation of your island is truly hard, and I should think deserves a relaxation of our terms if I may trust my first thoughts on the subject. 1 I also think it probable it might be mutually beneficial to us. Should I continue of that opinion I will certainly do any little of fices in my power to bring it about. But I refer it to yourself whether there should not be some body with some kind of public authority as well to give information of facts, as to satisfy the Congress that the inhabitants of Bermuda will enter into such engagements as may se cure them against any infraction of the American Association. I have time to add nothing more than that I am Dr. Sir Your friend & servt., Th: Jefferson RC (ViW) . Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) , 1:170. 1 Bermuda’s dependence on British North America for basic foodstuffs made a number of islanders apprehensive at the prospect of having these shipments stopped after Congress’ nonexportation program went into effect on September 10, 1775. Accordingly in March, Col. Henry Tucker, a prominent Bermuda merchant and political leader, asked his son, St. George Tucker, then in Virginia striving to launch a legal career, to urge the Virginia delegates to persuade Congress to exempt Bermudians from the full rigors of nonexportation. The younger Tucker thereupon wrote to Jefferson and Peyton Randolph on June 8, reminding them of the Bermudians’ need for provisions and vulnerability to British retaliation in the event they actively supported the American cause, and expressing their willingness to accept some congressional restrictions on their trade if allowed to continue to import necessaries from the mainland after nonexportation began. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:167-69, 170n; and Wilfred B. Kerr, Bermuda and the American Revolution: 1760-1783 (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1936) , pp. 39-40. Well before St. George Tucker received Jefferson’s present letter (with its hint that “some body with some kind of public authority” be sent to Philadelphia) some Bermudians had taken steps to ensure that Congress would hear their case. In May delegates were selected to go to Philadelphia; they departed at the end of June bearing an address to Congress, which, while carefully preserving Bermuda’s neutrality in the conflict between Great Britain and the mainland colonies, asked that they be allowed to import provisions despite the nonexportation agreement. Upon their arrival in Philadelphia, the Bermudians sought out Benjamin Franklin, apparently because of his fame, and Franklin presented their address to Congress on July 11. But since Congress was in no mood to grant unilateral concessions, it promised formally only to consider the Bermudians’ address, while privately in forming them that their petition was more likely to succeed if they seized the gunpowder that was stored in the royal magazine at St. Georges, the island’s capital. Consequently, before the Bermuda delegation left Philadelphia around the middle of July, a private understanding was reached with Franklin whereby the Bermudians agreed to supply Congress the powder in return for an exemption from the forthcoming trade ban. JCC, 2:174, 187; William Bell Clark et al., eds., Naval Documents of the American Revolution (Washington: Department of the Navy, 1964- ), 1:794-95, 1120; Henry Tucker to Benjamin Franklin, August 12, 1775, PPArnP; and Kerr, Bermuda and the American Revolution, pp. 42-47. When the Bermuda delegates arrived home events moved swiftly. On August 12, St. George Tucker (recently returned from Virginia) and his father drew up for Jefferson and Franklin, respectively, proposals for preventing reshipment of goods sent to Bermuda. As Colonel Tucker noted, “the Congress are all inclined to serve
