476 June 10, 1775 us but the plan is only wanted to prevent our Assisting the West Indies.” And on August 14 a group of islanders broke into the royal magazine and made off with about 1,800 pounds of gunpowder, which they shipped to Philadelphia in a vessel provided by the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety. The Bermudians’ achievement was duly noted, and on October 2, barely two weeks after Congress had recon vened, the committee on trade reported in favor of maintaining commerce with Bermuda, and on November 22 Congress approved an elaborate set of resolves, some of them based upon suggestions made by the Tuckers, enabling islanders to obtain a wide variety of provisions from the mainland in spite of nonexportation. JCC, 2:246, 3:268, 362-64; Henry Tucker, Sr., to St. George Tucker, August 6, 1775, Tucker-Coleman Papers, ViW; Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) , 1:239-40; Henry Tucker, “Proposals offered to the General Con[gress by] the Inhabitants of Bermuda . . ca. August 12, 1775, PPAmP; and Kerr, Bermuda and the American Revolution, pp. 48-54. New York Delegates to the New York Provincial Congress Phila 10th June 1775 Gentlemen, We are now to acknowledge the Honor of your dispatches of the 7 th Inst. 1 We have long foreseen the difficulties you must be reduced to for want of money. They will not be lessened by the resolutions of the Congress of yesterday recommending it to you to procure and for ward five Thousand barrells of Flour for the use of the Army at Bos ton. We communicated the paragraph of your letter in which you com plain that unless the Congress shall make some speedy order with re lation to the levying of money it will be impossible for you to comply with their farther Requests. They however seem perswaded that their Vote of Credit, which accompanies the order for the Supply will re move every obstruction, and relying on your Zeal for the Common Cause they hope you will be able to throw in this provision which we are apprehensive will soon become highly necessary. We may venture to hint to you that the emission of paper money will be discus’d on Monday and we expect in the course of next Week to be able to present you with a determination of this impor- tent business, which will free us from much anxiety. We shall not fail to attend to what you suggest concerning the In dians. This is an object to our Colonie of the highest moment and we hope in due time it will be considered by the Congress. We think the Indians will not be disposed to engage in this unhappy quarrell unless deceived and deluded by missrepresentations and this, with Vigilence and care on our part, can be prevented. As one step towards it, which we much applaud, are the assurances you have given the Superin tendent of his safety.
