480 June 11, 1775 the most surprising Account of the Confidence Administration have placed in this Gent. It seems he has been of their Cabinet council & that Lds. N [or] th & Dartmouth have much Depended on his Intelli gence of this Country & the Dispositions of the people here, & their plan of opperation has been much dictated by him & it seems he is betrusted with all their secrets, & much depended upon to carry their Designs into Execution. He was it seems to make overtures with the Congress 8c has Authority to draw upon the Treasury in England for what he finds Necessary not only to bribe 8c bring over some Mem bers of the Congress but to Divide 8: confound the whole if possable. It is said and not without probable evidence that he had brought over Important Commissions for some Members of the Congress 8c of those who have been esteemd of Among the first Patriots, but through good Providence all his Schemes are at once Confounded. We are more surprised here that the Ministry have made so great a Confidant of him as he appears Neither to have Art or Abilitys for their purpose, to what low dirty & mean Shifts are this Disparing Ministry put to, to Accomplish their Wicked designs 8c plots against America. The firmness Union and steady perseverence in the great American Cause believe we may say still prevails in this Congress, but we have so many Expresses & Matters Incidental that almost Daily Comes before us that it makes our Progress slow 8c causes many Delays in the more great 8c Important Matters. A Continental Army 8c Continental resources Including Continental Currancy & their proportions among the United Colonies with a proper 8c firm Confederacy you are sensible are great 8c important Objects but we see Nothing Discourageing in either. We have this Day received Ad vice from the Army Near Boston of their great fears of a Deficiency in the Article of Ammunition. Every Step is taking by the Congress to lay a foundation for a proper Supply by sending 8c Collecting from every Colony what small parcells of Salt Petre can be Obtaind from every private family or store 8c to be sent to New York or Philadel phia where their are Powder Mills 8c Workmen Sufficient if they can be supplied with Materials. They have sent their request to all the Colonies Eastward to supply the Army for the present with what they can spare, Connecticutt among the rest. Also to have an Account forwarded as soon as may be what Powder in Stock Colony Town the several Colonies are possessed of. Believe as so late 8c thorough enquiry has been made in Connecticutt that you will be able to send us the Account with so much precission as is Necessary without being at the expence of sending through the Colony. We doubt not that a just and True account will be kept of the very expence 8: Ad vancement of our Colony in the Genl Cause as we expect it will be a Continental expence. Almost every Colony esteem themselves in some Danger in the Present Dispute from either external or Internal
