484 June 13, 1775 ery Thing in it’s power to promote this very useful Work but I be lieve most Gent of the Congress have as much to learn as myself. 2 I shall be very agreeably surprized whenever your Country leading Gent, shall act on a large Scale in politicks. I wish you would fret yourself as little as possible. Nothing that you and all your Town can do will expand their Hearts. I have not yet had an Oppty of execut ing your Commission with regard to Colo. Steven. I will again write to you soon and on that Subject. The people here continue their In dustry to learn the Military Art, every Thing wears a favourable Ap pearance. I suppose you have heard that Colo. Skeen lately appoint ed Govr. of Ticonderoga & Crown Point was stopped here the other Day on his Landing. He is now on his parol. The Congress Hour is near at Hand. I have neither Time nor matter to add further than that I am Dr. sr. Your most obedt. Servant Th Johnson junr RC (PPAmP). 1 A reference to Richard Glover, The Substance of the Evidence Delivered on the Petition Presented by the West-India Planters and Merchants to the Hon. House of Common . . . the 16th of March, 1775 (London: H. S. Woodfall, 1775) . T. R. Adams, American Independence, p. 127. This pamphlet was reprinted serially in the Pennsylvania Journal; and the Weekly Advertiser, June 21, 28, 1775, and contained a petition from West Indian planters and London merchants calling upon Parliament to take steps to soften the anticipated impact of the Association on the West Indian economy and to preserve commercial relations between the islands and the northern colonies as well as the arguments before the House of Commons in support of these pleas by Glover, an English merchant and poet. See also Am. Archives, 4th ser. 1:1540, 1721-43; and DNB. “Johnson had been appointed on the 10th to a committee to encourage the manufacture of saltpetre in America. JCC, 2:86. Virginia Delegate to Unknown June 13, 1775 Notwithstanding the many accounts of the sailing of the troops from Ireland, a vessel is just arrived here from Newry, in five weeks, the Captain of which says, that none had sailed; and that, just as he was coming away, orders were said to have come to them to hold themselves in readiness to embark for Gibraltar. Col. Skene (owner of the schooner taken on Lake Camplain, whose son was also taken there, and is now prisoner in Connecticut) is just arrived from London, with a commission to be Governour of Ticonderoga and Crown Point, but, private letters say, is charged with a power from administration to influence the members of the Congress, by arguments drawn on the Treasury, over which he has unlimited power; but as we have no occasion for his services at the forts, and do not intend to deal in his reasonings, he remains a pris-
