June 14, 1775 485 oner upon his parole, to keep within eight miles of the city, between the two rivers, and not to correspond with any person on political subjects. As to the two engagements at the islands near Boston, 1 we are told, but not with a degree of confirmation, that the last, on Noddle’s island, was a very serious business, near 1500 being engaged on each side, and that the regulars had 200 killed and wounded, the loss on the side of the provincials being merely trifling. I think we may finish in a fortnight, but can only guess, without forming any precise judgment about it. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Purdie) , June 23, 1775, “Supplement.” The extract follows another unindentified Virginia delegate letter, dated June 14, 1775, and appears under the heading: “Extract of a letter from another of the Virginia delegates, dated June 13." 1 See Robert Treat Paine’s Diary, June 5, 1775. Edmund Pendleton to William Woodford Dr. Sir Phila. June 14. 1775. I have the pleasure of yrs. of the 3d & did not mean when I spoke of the dissentions about Mr. Henry’s Manoeuvre, to hint at blaming our Commee, or the probability of division among them. They took the right method of commanding the Zeal &: good intention of the Party, tho’ they disapproved the Measure. 1 I am sorry Mr. Christie escaped, as I am inclined to think that from him we might have got into the Particulars of the intended Indian Treaty, which might have proved an important discovery at this time, as we are suspicious of something unfair being intended: Whether the Kings Pork is eat by the worthless Crew in the Navy or Army, or by the Govrs. slaves is matter of very little concern to Us, tho’ the Enquiry was a Judicious Step. I imagine Johnny Taylor has given you an Account of what lit tle news is stirring, of which indeed there is a great dearth; provi dence seems to have smiled on our struggles & given Us success in ev ery attempt hitherto; May we continue to deserve divine favour &: I doubt not, we shall have it throughout. I am very glad our Vestry have chosen Mr. Sheild, & doubt not the Clamours will soon subside, & that those who now make a noise will applaud the Vestry for what they have done, tho’ perhaps some whose opposition was to the Ves try & not for the sake of the Ignorant Mr. Ford (who if he appears in the paper, will I venture to prophecy, prove the Justice of giving Mr. Sheild the preference) may still make a noise. You mention to John ny a Report from Mr. Sheild & Mr. Hunt dishonourable to our Dela- gation. We had it before &: 1 fear has too just a foundation. It highly
