486 June 14, 1775 dishonours Us & our Countrey, & Our Assembly has surely examined into it, & either restored Bland to his Credit on his Innocence appear ing, Or on the contrary wiped off the Stain from the Colony, by de grading him from the Delegation & expelling him [from] their House, sending him to stink in infamous Obscurity. 2 I am much pleased wth. yr. scheme for manufactories at Fredg. For I see plainly that if we can’t succeed that way, much of our money must come here for various Articles, Commissions for which give the trades men here much emploiment, and as they have their hands full of work, I doubt it will be difficult to perswade any of them to leave this plenti ful market; however I will enquire whether any & what Artists in yr. branches can be engaged to come Over &: let you know. Yr. things are not yet done, but am promised they shall be in a day or two. I am Dr. Sr. Yr. Affe. hble Servt. Edmd Pendleton RC (PHi) . 1 See Pendleton’s letter to Woodford, May 30, 1775. 3 Charges made by Rev. Samuel Sheild and others that Richard Bland had solicited a government appointment to collect taxes and had promised to promote ministerial measures against America were examined by the Virginia convention July 28 and declared false. See the Virginia Gazette (Dixon and Hunter), July 8, 22, and August 5, 1775. Virginia Delegate to Unknown June 14, 1775 Col. Washington has been pressed to take the supreme command of the American Troops encamped at Roxbury, and I believe will ac cept the appointment, 1 though with much reluctance, he being deep ly impressed with the importance of that honourable trust, and diffi dent of his own (superiour) abilities. We have determined to keep 10,000 men in Massachusetts Bay, and 5000 in different parts of New York government, at the expense of the continent; and probably a large sum of money will be emitted, in order to carry on the war, preparations for which go on rapidly in this place. It seems likely that some of the newly arrived Generals were in tended for the southern colonies, but no troops can be spared from Boston. The Provincials talk much of storming that town, and it is expected by many. The Congress will sit long. Adjusting the expenses of each colony for the common cause, and settling proper funds for the army, are subjects fruitful of debate, and of the utmost consequence. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Purdie) , June 23, 1775,
