496 June 16, 1775 Suited to the Temper & Genius of our People than any other Gent not brought up in that Part of the Country. We have no doubt but that he will render himself very Agreable 8c Acceptable to all. His ap pointment will tend to keep up the Union 8c more strongly Cement the Southern with the Northern Colonies, 8c serve to the removing all jealousies Army composed principally of New Englanders (if happily they prove Successfull) of being formidable to the Southern Colo nies. There is Sir 8, or 10 Companies of the expert riflers 8c marks men all Warriors preparing to come from the Western parts of this Province 8c Virginia, to join the Army Near Boston as soon as possi ble. On the late News of a Number of Troops now Actually on their passage for New York, 8c Daily expected, the Congress have thought fit to desire you upon application from New York Congress to Order the remainder of our Troops on the Western parts of the Colony to re pair to or Near New York 8c Occupy some important post there, which you will receive by this express. 2 It gives the Congress some Concern least you Sir should Apprehend some Indelicacy in their mode of applying to you, through the Intervention of the York Pro vincial Congress. We beg leave just to explain the reasons of their Conduct therein, it is apprehended still that New York (i e) their Cautious men are for saving for themselves 8c the Province a safe re treat if possable. We readily see they most Carefully Avoid taking any lead in these Matters, therefore the more they are brought to move and Apply the more they will Involve themselves in the same Predicament with the other Colonies, which will give us a stronger Security for their future firmness in the General Cause. We may pre sume to let you [know] that this Congress are providing a Continen tal fund, to reimburse the expence of the Continental Army, and for the present exagence to emitt a paper Currency on the Credit of the United Colonies, redeemable by each Colony in a proper Time setled by the Congress as nearly equal as possable at this Time, tho subject to a Correction, when they may be able to make a more full 8c just estimate, as all the Colonies are not at present furnished with the Materials Necessary therefor, you will Sir be so good as to excuse the Incorrectness of this Midnight Scrible and in behalf of my Self 8: College Deligates have the Honor to be with most Sincere respect your Honors most Obedient Humble Servant Eliphalet Dyer Tr (Ct). 1 For the letters of Jonathan Trumbull and Ethan Allen mentioned above, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 2:713-14, 940-41. 3 See resolution of June 16. JCC, 2:95.
