504 June 18, 1775 The pay which has been voted to all the officers, which the Conti nental Congress intends to choose, is so large, that I fear our people will think it extravagant, and be uneasy. 4 Mr. Adams, Mr. Paine, and myself, used our utmost endeavors to reduce it, but in vain. Those ideas of equality, which are so agreeable to us natives of New England, are very disagreeable to many gentlemen in the other colonies. They had a great opinion of the high importance of a conti nental general, and were determined to place him in an elevated point of light. They think the Massachusetts establishment too high for the privates, and too low for the officers, and they would have their own way. I hope the utmost politeness and respect will be shown to these of ficers on their arrival. The whole army, I think, should be drawn up upon the occasion, and all the pride, pomp, and circumstance of glo rious war displayed;—no powder burned, however. There is something charming to me in the conduct of Washington. A gentleman of one of the first fortunes upon the continent, leaving his delicious retirement, his family and friends, sacrificing his ease, and hazarding all in the cause of his country! His views are noble and disinterested. He declared, when he accepted the mighty trust, that he would lay before us an exact account of his expenses, and not accept a shilling for pay. The express waits. MS not found; reprinted from Adams, Works (Adams) , 9:357-59. ’This measure was not adopted by vote of Congress until June 22. JCC, 2:103. a These resolves do not appear in the journals and were probably agreed to while Congress sat in the committee of the whole. John Hancock to Elbridge Gerry, this date. 3 Gerry had previously urged the appointment of Washington and Lee in a letter of June 4, 1775, to the Massachusetts delegates. Austin, Life of Gerry, 1:77-79. 4 For the pay rates agreed to June 16, see JCC, 2:93-94. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Sunday June 18th. 1775 I wrote You the other Day a short Lettr. after receiving yours, of the 11th inst., in which referr’d You to a long one date forgot giving an Acct, of my Tour, to Wilmington, and a description of the dress of the Troops here, the review &c &c or rather I referr’d to you Capt. Riley who was present at it for a Volume would not describe it at large, with the queer figures of Mortality which any public Occasion here exhibits. You have often beheld a Gerrman Countenance and the lower order or Western Irish one, these made up so much the greater part of the Spectators, that a Lady of but tolerable Biauty
