June 18, 1775 509 Robert Treat Paine to Artemas Ward Hond. & beloved Sr Philada June 18 1775 I could not omitt this opportunity of Congratulating you on yr. ap pointment to the second Command in the American Army 1 & of the heroic & amiable General Washington to the first Command. He will be with you soon I expect, to strengthen yr. hands & rejoice your hearts. Mean while I dare say you will keep a good look out against Surprizes. It has given us great Greif that We have heard so Seldom, if at all particularly from the Camp. I think we have exerted our utmost at tention to yr. Welfare, the perticulars of which we are not yet pre pared to express. We have no perticular news—but by our Presidents Letters you may Learn Some matters which it is needless for me to repeat. Remember me to my many friends in Camp. Wishing you health & prosperity I subscribe yr friend & Sevt R T Paine RC (OCIWHi) . 1 Artemas Ward (1727-1800), a storekeeper in Shrewsbury, Mass., and a leader of patriots in the General Court, commanded the American army at Cambridge, and was appointed first major general and second in command of the Continental Army on June 17, 1775. DAB; and Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 12:326-48. George Washington to Martha Washington My Dearest, Philadelphia, June 18th 1775 I am now set down to write to you on a subject which fills me with inexpressible concern—and this concern is greatly aggravated and Increased when I reflect upon the uneasiness I know it will give you. It has been determined in Congress, that the whole army raised for the defence of the American Cause shall be put under my care, and that it is necessary for me to proceed immediately to Boston to take upon me the Command of it. You may believe me my dear Patsy, when I assure you in the most solemn manner, that, so far from seek ing this appointment, I have used every endeavor in my power to avoid it, not only from my unwillingness to part with you and the Family, but from a consciousness of its being a trust too great for my capacity and that I should enjoy more real happiness and felicity in one month with you, at home, that I have the most distant prospect of reaping abroad, if my stay were to be seven times seven years. But as it has been a kind of destiny, that has thrown me upon this serv ice, I shall hope that my undertaking of it is designed to answer some good purpose. You might, and I suppose did perceive, from the Ten-
