June 20, 1775 519 advize General Ward to humiliate himself and his Country so far as to serve under him. General Ward was elected the second and Lee the third.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:321-24. Samuel Adams to Joseph Warren Dear sir Philada June [20,] 1775 1 I have but one Moment to inform you that this Congress having as I before wrote you appointed General Washington to the Command of all the American Forces, and Majors General Ward &: Lee, they yesterday proceeded to the Appointment of two more Majors Gener al viz Schuyler and Putnam. General Lee has accepted of his Ap pointment and will I suppose tomorrow set off with General Wash ington for Cambridge. The Congress seems determined to support their Army before Boston. They are fully sensible of the Importance of it & have recommended to the Colonies of Connecticutt R Island & N Hampr. to send the Troops they have agreed to raise without Delay to Cambridge, those to remain till further orders (excepting such as were destind to the several Posts in the Colony of N York). You have doubtless been informed by Mr H[ancock] that you may soon expect ten Companies of Rifle Men to joyn the Army. I am more &: more satisfied in the Appointmt of Genl. Lee. He is certainly an able officer & I think deeply embarkd in the American Cause. The Congress have agreed to indemnify him from any Loss of Property he may sustain by acting as an officer in the Army, 2 but this I mention only to you at present &: the small Circle. If any should be disaffected to his Appointment pray use your utmost Endeavours to reconcile them to it. I am in great Haste. Your assured friend S. Adams RC (MHi) . J The date of this letter has been inferred from Adams’ opening statement on the appointment June 19 of Generals Schuyler and Putnam. JCC, 2:99. “Congress took this action on June 19. JCC, 2:98-99. For the split over Lee’s appointment within the Massachusetts delegation, see John Adams to James War ren, June 20, and to Cotton Tufts, June 21, 1775. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia June 20th. 1775 The Intelligence we almost Daily receive here being so far Distant from where the great Operations most likely will be, makes our deci sions somewhat perplexed and in many respects not so readily Ac-
