June 20, 1775 527 the hope of pacific measures that might avail something, but that hope has almost vanished. Some without Doors talk of sending some Body home. In my judgment ’tis the only step that affords the least glimmering of peace. It is thought Gen. Gage when the troops all ar rived, will be 11 or 12,000 strong. The Provincials now have about 18,000. It is supposed they will not attack but it is generally thought that Gage will. Indeed from all circumstances I think it probable, and dreadful slaughter there will be. I wish I could have entertained you more agreeably, but I fear this is the subject on which we must speak and write for some time to come. May Heaven protect us. Pray don’t fail mentioning the receipt of my letters. You do not in your last. Give my love to Peggy, and be assured that I remain, Most affection ately yours, Mat. Tilghman. MS not found; reprinted from The Collector 21 (April 1908) : 63-64. 'Two of the delegates mentioned are obviously Robert Goldsborough and John Hall. Since Samuel Chase, Thomas Johnson, and William Paca remained in Philadelphia, the “L” printed in this document may be a misreading of an "S” in the MS intended to designate Thomas Stone. George Washington to the Captains of Several Independent Companies in Virginia Gentlemen, Philadelphia, 20 June, 1775. I am now about to bid adieu to the companies under your respec tive commands, at least for a while. I have launched into a wide and extensive field, too boundless for my abilities, and far, very far, be yond my experience. I am called, by the unanimous voice of the Col onies, to the command of the Continental army; an honor I did not aspire to; an honor I was solicitous to avoid, upon a full conviction of my inadequacy to the importance of the service. The partiality of the Congress, however, assisted by a political motive, rendered my reasons, unavailing, and I shall to-morrow set out for the camp near Boston. I have only to beg of you, therefore, before I go, (especially as you did me the honor to put your companies under my direction, and know not how soon you may be called upon in Virginia for an exer tion of your military skill,) by no means to relax in the discipline of your respective companies. I have the honor to be, &c. MS not found; reprinted from George Washington, The Writings of George Washington, ed. Worthington C. Ford, 14 vols. (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1889-93), 2:489-90.
