528 June 20, 1775 George Washington to John A. Washington Dear Brother, Philadelphia June 20th 1775 I am now to bid adieu to you, & to every kind of domestick ease, for a while. I am Imbarked on a wide Ocean, boundless in its pros pect & from whence, perhaps, no safe harbour is to be found. I have been called upon by the unanimous Voice of the Colonies to take the i Command of the Continental Army—An honour I neither sought after, nor desired, as I am thoroughly convinced that it requires greater Abilities, and much more experience, than I am Master of, to conduct a business so extensive in its nature, and arduous in the exe cution; but the partiallity of the Congress, joind to a political motive, really left me without a Choice; and I am now Commissioned a Gen- erl. & Commander in Chief of all the Forces now raisd, or to be - raisd, for the defence of the United Colonies. That I may discharge the Trust to the Satisfaction of my Imployer, is my first wish—that I shall aim to do it, there remains as little doubt of. How far I may succeed is another point—but this I am sure of, that in the worst event I shall have the consolation of knowing (if I act to the best of my judgment) that the blame ought to lodge upon the appointers, not the appointed, as it was by no means a thing of my own seeking, or proceeding from any hint of my friends. I am at liberty to inform you, that the Congress, in a Committee, (which will I dare say, be agreed to when reported) have consented to a Continental Currency—have ordered two Million of Dollars to be struck for payment of the Troops, &c. and have voted 15,000 Men as a Continental Army—which number will be augmented, as the strength of the British Troops will be greater than was expected at the time of passing that vote. Genl. Ward, Genl. Lee, Genl. Schy- ler and Genl. Putnam are appointed Major Genls. under me—the Brigadier Genls. are not yet appointed—Majr. Gates Adjutant Genl. I expect to set out tomorrow for Boston & hope to be joind there in a little time by Ten Companies of Riflemen from this Province, Mary land, & Virginia—for other Articles of Intelligence, I shall refer you to the Papers, as the Printers are diligent in collecting every thing that is stirring. I shall hope that my Friends will visit, & endeavor to keep up the spirits of my Wife as much as they can, as my departure will, I know, be a cutting stroke upon her; and on this acct, alone, I have many very disagreeable sensations. I hope you &: my sister (although the distance is great) will find as much leisure this Summer, as to spend a little time at Mount Vernon. My sincere regards attend you both as also the little ones and am Dr Sir Yr most Affecte. Brother Go Washington
