June 21, 1775 RC (DLC) . 529 John Adams to Cotton Tufts Dr Sir Phyladelphia June 21. 1775 Major Mifflin goes in the Character of Aid de Camp to General Washington. I wish You 1 to be acquainted with him, because, he has great Spirit Activity, and Abilities, both in civil and military Life. He is a gentleman of Education, Family and Fortune. C[ushing] and H[ancock] and P[aine] have given us a great deal of Trouble, in the Election of Lee, and I expect will avail them selves of all the Whims and Prejudices, of our People. 2 We are like to have more trouble of the like kind in the choice of Brigadiers General. Old Pomroy must be the first. P[aine], to do him Justice, has renounced his Connections in this Instance. He de clares he cant and wont vote for him. I had rather vote for Prebble in his Bed. I expect our People when they come to know the Pay of the gener al officers and others, will grumble. Adams, Paine and I fought against it totis viribus—But in vain. It is amazingly high. But the Southern Genius’s think it vastly too low. 3 Farewell, John Adams RC (NHi) . 1 Cotton Tufts (1732-1815), Weymouth, Mass., physician, was first cousin and uncle of Abigail Adams. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:14. “For more information on the division within the Massachusetts delegation, see John Adams to James Warren, and Samuel Adams to Joseph Warren, June 20, 1775. “The pay schedules for general officers are in JCC, 2:93-94. John Adams to Joseph Warren Dr Sir, Phyldelphia June 21. 1775 This Letter I presume will be delivered into your own Hand by the General. He proposes to set out, tomorrow, for your Camp. God Speed him. Lee is Second Major General, Schuyler, who is to command at N. York is the third and Putnam the fourth. How many Brigadiers general we shall have, whether five, Seven or Eight, is not deter mined, nor who they shall be. One from N. Hampshire, one from R. Island, two from Connecticut!, one from N. York, and three from Massachusetts, perhaps. I am almost impatient to be at Cambridge. We shall maintain a
