530 June 21, 1775 good Army for you. I expect to hear of Grumbletonians, some from parsimonious and others from Superstitious Prejudices. But We do the best we can, and leave the Event. How do you like your Government? Does it make or remove Dif ficulties? I wish We were nearer to you. The Tories lie very low both here and at New York. The latter will very Soon be as deep as any Colony. We have Major Skeene a Prisoner, enlarged a little on his Parol. A very great Tool. I hope Govr Tryon, will be taken care of—but We find a great many Bundles of weak Nerves. We are obliged to be as delicate and soft and modest and humble as possible. Pray Stir up every Man, who has a Quill to write me. We want to know the Number of your Army—a list of your officers—a State of your Government—the Distresses of Boston—the Conditions of the Enemy &c. I am, Dr sir your Friend John Adams [P.S.] We have all recommended Billy Tuder for a Secretary to the General. Will he make a good one? This moment informed of Powder arrived here, 500 Blls they say. We must send it along to you. RC (MHi). Thomas Cushing to James Bowdoin, Sr. Dear Sir, Philadelphia, June 21, 1775. You 1 will doubtless have been informed that the Congress have unanimously appointed George Washington, Esqr, General & Com mander in Chief of the American forces. I beg leave to recommend him to your respectful notice. He is a compleat gentleman. He is sin- sible, amiable, virtuous, modest, & brave. I promise myself that your acquaintance with him will afford you great pleasure, and I doubt not his agreable behaviour & good conduct will give great satisfaction to our people of all denominations. General Lee accompanies him as Major General; I hope his appointment will be agreable to our peo ple, & that he will be received with all due respect. I am, with great regard, Your most humble servt. Thomas Cushing RC (MHi) ; reprinted from “The Bowdoin and Temple Papers,’’ Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 6th ser. 9 (1897) : 384-85. 1 James Bowdoin, Sr. (1726-90), Boston merchant, member of the Massachusetts Assembly, 1753-57, and Council, 1757-76, was later governor of Massachusetts, 1785-87. He was elected to the First Continental Congress but did not attend. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, ll:514r-50; and DAB.
