June 22, 1775 531 John Hancock to Dorothy Quincy Congress Room 21st June 1775. Notes the receipt of her letter, and wants to know if his gifts have suited her. Continues: “I verily think now we shall Adjourn to Connecticutt, as the Seriousness of the Times seems to Call for it. I shall let you know in Time, I hearti ly wish for it. ... I am greatly hurried, have Five hundred Com missions to Sign for the Officers of our Army. I am now going to Sign General Washington’s Commission. He will pass thro’ Fairfield in 4 or 5 days.” RC (CtY). Stephen Hopkins to Ruth Hopkins Philadelphia June 21, 1775. Reveals that since his arrival in Phila delphia in the middle of May “I have had an ill turn and two or three fits of the fever and ague, but am now well,” and expresses concern for his wife, who “has not been very well for several days and is now quite poorly.” 1 Concludes: “Col. Washington will set out from here in a day or two for New England, to take the command of the Conti nental army, of which he is appointed Commander-in-Chief. He will be accompanied by Gen. Lee, who also has a command in that army, which is taken into the pay of all America.” MS not found; abstracted from Essex Institute Historical Collections 2 (I860) : 118. 1 Nearly a month later Hopkins again reported that they were "still unwell.” Hopkins to Ruth Hopkins, July 16, 1775. NN. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Phila June 22 1775 Our patriotick General Washington will deliver this Letter to you. The Massachusetts Delegates have joyntly given to him a List of the Names of certain Gentlemen in whom he may place the greatest Confidence. 1 Among these you are one. 2 We have assurd him that he may rely upon such others as you may recommend to him. Excuse my writing to you so short a Letter and believe me to be Your affec tionate friend Sami Adams [P.S.] Major General Lee and Major Mifflin accompany the Gener al—A Triumvirate you will be pleasd with. Cannot our friend Joseph Greenleaf be employd to his own & his Countrys Benefit? 579-852 0 - 77 - 36 Vol. 1
