June 23, 1775 539 the Line of Conduct, which they have hitherto ingloriously pursued. You will write Me, in your next, the Reception which the Gentlemen met with in Connecticut, & what your Opinion is of them. I may not add as the post waits. 2 I am your most Affectionate Husband S Deane RC (CtHi) . 1 Deane undoubtedly wrote this letter on June 24. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Deane to Elizabeth Deane, June 26-27. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [June 23, 1775] Early this Morning, General Washington & other officers of the American Army set out for the Army Escorted by the Light Horse & the officers of Foot on Horse Back. I rode 3 miles with him 8c then turnd of[f] 8c rode to Point no Point, 7 a.m. Evening Dr. Smith preach’d to 2d Battallion at Christ’s Church an excellent Sermon, Evening Rain’d very Cool. MS (MHi) . Roger Sherman to David Wooster Dear Sir Philadelphia June 23d. 1775 The Congress having determined it necessary to keep up an Army for the Defence of America at the Charge of the United Colonies have Appointed the following General Officers: George Washington Esqr. Commander in Chief Majr. Generals Ward, Lee, Schuyler and Putnam; Brigadier Generals Pomroy, Montgomery, your Self— Heath, Spencer, Thomas, Majr. Sullivan, of New Hampshire, 8c one Green of Rhode Island. I am sensible that according to your former Rank you were intitled to the place of a Major General, and as one was to be appointed in Connecticut I heartily recommended you to the Congress. 1 I informed them of the Arrangment made by our As sembly, which I thought would be Satisfactory to have them continue in the Same Order, but as General Putnam’s fame was Spread Abroad and especially his successful enterprise at Noddles Island the account of which had Just arrived, it gave him a preference in the opinion of the Delegates in General So that his appoint [ment] was Unanimous among the Colonies. But from your known Abilities and firm attachment to the American cause we were very desirous of your continuance in the Army, and hope You will accept of the ap-
