540 June 23, 1775 pointment made by the Congress, I think the pay of a Brigadier is about 125 Dollars per Month. I Suppose a Commission is Sent to you by General Washington. We received Intelligence yesterday of an Engagement at Charlestown but have not had the particulars. All the Connecticut Troops are now taken into the Continental Army. I hope proper care will be taken to Secure the Colony against any Sudden Invasion, which must be at their own expense. I have nothing further that I am at Liberty to acquaint you with of the doings of the Congress but what have been made public. I would not have any thing published in the Papers that I write lest Something may inadvertantly escape me which ought not to be published. I Should be Glad if you would write to me every convenient opportu nity & inform me of Such Occurrences, and other matters as you may think proper and useful for me to be acquainted with. I am with great esteem Your humble Servant Roger Sherman P.S. The General Officers were Elected in the Congress not by Nomi nation but by Ballot. RC (MWA) . 1 In April the Connecticut assembly had commissioned Wooster as major gener al, with Spencer as brigadier general and Putnam as second brigadier general. Wooster responded to Congress’ appointment by returning the Continental com mission with his reply to Sherman of July 7: “I enclose with this the commission delivered to me by General Washington. You will see that somehow by mistake it was never dated. You will be good enough to deliver it to Mr. Hancock with my best compliments, and desire him not to return it. I have already a commission for the assembly of Connecticut.” Lewis Henry Boutell, The Life of Roger Sherman (Chicago: A. C. McClurg and Co., 1896), p. 88. Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. My dear Son Philadelphia 23rd June 1775 This is the first Time that I ever wrote to a Person whom I did not know whether to consider as one of this World or of the next; if Heaven has spared You, devote your Life to the Service of God & your Country; if You are wounded or a Prisoner let the Satisfaction that You are engaged in the Cause of God & Man support You; if neither let your Heart overflow with Gratitude to the great Preserver of Men; if You have been successful Humanity will direct the most generous Treatment of our vanquished Enemies at the same Time that Wisdom directs the pushing the Victory to the utmost; if You have met with a Check, Let a firm Reliance in the Justice of your Cause & the divine Protection give fresh Vigour rouse every generous Sentiment in the Army as far as your little Influence will extend & bravely exert every Nerve in Defence of your Country. We have im-
