June 24, 1775 541 mense Resources and nothing will be wanting to make you soon su perior to your Enemies. Major Mifflin Who does Me the Favor to deliver You this is wor thy of the greatest Regard as a Friend to his Country. I am afraid the common Cause here will suffer much by his Absence for he is almost the Soul of the City. May God of his infinite Mercy preserve You all. Your very affec tionate Father Sam Ward P.S. Time admits no more. The Congress has chosen your Brigadier Genl, as a continental brigadier Genl. & as such he is to be commissd. 1 You are all to re- cive continental Commissions from the General. RC (RHi) . Addressed: "To Capt. Samuel Ward of the Rhode Island Forces near Boston.” 1 Ward is here referring to Nathanael Greene (1742-86) , who at the age of 32 was the Continental Army’s youngest general officer. JCC, 2:103; and DAB. John Hancock to the New York Provincial Congress Gentlemen, Philadelphia 24th June 1775. By Order of the Congress I inclose you certain Resolves passed Yesterday, respecting those who were concerned in taking and gari- soning Crown Point and Ticonderoga. 1 As the Congress are of Opinion that the Employing the Green Mountain Boys in the American Army would be advantageous to the common Cause, as well on account of their Situation as of their Dis position and alertness, they are Desirous you should embody them among the Troops you shall raise. As it is Represented to the Con gress that they will not Serve under any Officers but such as they themselves Chuse, you are Desired to consult with General Schuyler, in whom the Congress are informed those People place a great Con fidence, about the Field Officers to be Set over them. 2 I am Gentlemen Your most Obedient humble Servt. John Hancock President RC (N) . Tr (DNA: PCC, item 40) . RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 For these resolves see JCC, 2:104-05. 2 This day Hancock also sent Gen. Philip Schuyler a brief note enclosing copies of both this letter to the New York Provincial Congress and the congressional resolves mentioned therein. NN.
