542 June 26, 1775 Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane Monday June 25th [i.e. 26th]. [Philadelphia June 26-27, 1775] I miss’d the Opportunity of sending the above. We are at present in the most uneasy of all Situations that of Suspence. News of a Bat tle is arrived, but The particulars are very Confused. I hear Capt. Chester was in the hottest part of it, & lost Three Men, write Me I pray You all the particulars. Tuesday Morning Nothing further has arrived. Genl. Sullivan sets off this Day for the Army. He is appointed a Brigadier, & is of New Hampshire. My last Lettr. from you was of the 10th inst & it is Now the 26th. My Complimts. to all Freinds, if my Brother fitts out his Vessel at all he cannot make too great dispatch. RC (CtHi) . A continuation of Deane to Elizabeth Deane, June 23, 1775. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia June 26th 1775 Yours per express, dated the 20th We received and are happy to find that every Measure within your Power for the Public good has been Uniformly pursued, while the Advice from the Congress has been rather as approving than Directing Your. Conduct. 1 You will By this express receive a Letter from the President informing you of the appointment of General Washington 8c other General Officers, and by Unanimous Order of the Congress expressing the high sense they retain of your important Services to the United Colonies, at this critical period. In the arrangement of General Officers, the Character of General Putnam commanded every Vote for his Major General Ship, An Honor peculiar to the Commander in Chief 8c himself. We hope that his Appointment will give no Umbrage to General Woos ter, or General Spencer as they are honorably provided for. We wish the prospect of a Supply of one Article was more favorable but from the large quantities in the West Indies hope for the best. The Article of Salt Petre is now under Consideration, and shall in a few Days be able to write at large on the Subject. The Account brought us by Mr Avery of the Action of the 17th has given us the greatest possable anxciety, as it leaves us in suspence 8c Uncertainty as to the event of so important an Action, and our re ceiving no further Advices has increased it greatly. By a Letter from Albany received Yesterday we are informed of the Defection of the Caughnawaga Indians effected by the presents
