June 28, 1775 555 Ticonderoga & Crown Point, and of the Troops Station’d there, as also to Enquire into the Disposition of the Canadians and Indians. You will likewise find they have Directed him to Take or destroy all Vessells, Boats or Floating Batteries prepar’d by Governor Carlton on or near the Waters of the Lakes, and to Take possession of St Johns 8c Montreal if he finds it practicable, 8c not Disagreeable to the Canadians. The Alteration of the Sentiments of Congress since your Departure relative to making an Impression into Canada was Occa sion’d by a Letter they Receiv’d from the Committee of Albany, a Copy of which you have Inclos’d. They gave their Directions upon these important matters directly to Major General Schuyler, as he would be near the Posts above mention’d, and as their being Sent to you would Occasion such Delay as might prove Detrimental to the Service. I Send you the Remainder of the Commissions Sign’d, should you have Occasion for more, please to Acquaint me, 8c they shall be im mediately Transmitted you. Brigr. Genl. Gates not yet Arriv’d in the City, I Expect him to morrow, and shall Deliver him his Commissions, and promote his Joining you as soon as possible. Inclos’d is a Letter from him. With my best wishes for every personal Happiness, and Success in all your undertakings, I have the Honor to be, Sir Your most Obedt Huml. serv. John Hancock President RC (DLC). Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Hond. Sir Philadelphia 28 June 1775 Yesterday the Congress ordered Major Skeen (who has some time been Confined here within certain limits) to be sent to Hartford and confined to the limits of that Town on his parole of honor, not to de part nor hold correspondence with our Enemies, or Meddle in politi cal Affairs. Also a resolve was passed to request your Honor on be half of the Colony to Supply General Schuyler with such sums of Money, and Quantities of Ammunition as he may apply for, and can be furnished by the Colony. 1 It is supposed that he wont have occa sion for more than £20,000 in Bills of Credit of our Colony, if so much, to be repaid by the Continent. We were not able to Inform what some of Money was in our Treasury but thought it probable he might be furnished with what is necessary. I am most of all con cerned about a Supply of Gun Powder our Colony have taken Such an Active part, that I should not think it strange if Some Attack should be made upon it, and it wont be safe to be destitute of Am-
