556 June 28, 1775 munition. I am affraid that our stores are two much exhausted al ready. Care has been taken by our Enemies to prevent our being supplyed [fey] the Dutch or Danes, in the West Indies. It is probable General Schuyler may indertake some important enterprise which I wish to have the Colony afford him all possable Assistance. I wish to be informed of the arrival of any Supplies of Powder in any of the New England Governments. I dont know whither your Honr has been informed who are appointed General Officers in the Continental Army. All Officers below the rank of a Brigadier are left to the appointment of the Several Colonies but their Commissions to be signed by the President of this Congress. The Congress have ap pointed four Major Generals viz, Artemus Ward, Charles Lee, Philip Schuyler and Israel Putnam; and Eight Brigadiers viz Colo Pomroy Colo Montgomery of New York, General Wooster, Colo Heath, Colo Spencer, Colo Thomas of Massachusetts, Major Sullivan of New Hampshire, Mr Green Rhode Island. They were Elected by Ballot in the order above. We informed who were appointed in Connecticut and in what Or der, and the Rank they had before Sustained in the Army, but Gen eral Putnam had rendred himself famous by his Intrepidity and espe cially in the late Action at Noddle’s Island so that the Election was unanimous. An Ajutant General is appointed from Virginia. I forget his Name. The Chief General is allowed 3 Aid De Camps and each Major General 2. Their pay is 33 Dollars per Month, the Persons to be appointed by the Generals respectively. I have not seen all the Letters wrote by Colo Dyer & Mr Dean to your Honour. As I lodge at some Distance from them we have but little leisure to confer togath- er. The Congress sits from 9 in the Morning to 4 or 5 and sometimes 6 in the Afternoon. I have not been absent when the Congress were on Business So much as ten Minutes during the Session. The contro versy between Great Britain and the Colonies has been carried to greater extremity than I expected but I have now no expectation that the Ministry will relax their Measures unless they are convinced that they cannot carry them into Execution. The Salvation of the Colonies under Divine Providence depends upon their united and Vigorous application to Arms, that is the only conciliatory Plan that appears to me likely to prove Successful, or at least without which no other will have any effect. I am Your Honors Most Obedient humble Servant Roger Sherman Tr (Ct) . 1 JCC, 2:108, 110.
