June 29, 1775 557 Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Philadelphia June 29th. 1775 I hope before this, You have seen Genl. Washington, & Friends, on their Way, in health, & spirit. The Bearer of this is General Gates of Virginia a Gentleman, of great experience in Warr, and who leaves an affluent, & independant situation for the Service of these Colonies. 1 If he calls on You, you will receive him with the respect due to his Character. He is appointed Adjutant General to rank as Brigadier General. I have no Time To Write Mr. Webb a particular Letter, Wrote him last Night on Business. My respects to him & the whole of both Families. You will introduce him to the General, and ask him to give him directions on the road & assist as farr as possible in forwarding his Journey. I am my dear your’s S Deane [P.S.] The Generals name is Horatio Gates—an Englishman served as a Major in the Regular Army thro’ last Warr. Anecdote. The Rifle Men are raising fast. A Commission is given to one Mr. Cresop to command from Virginia. He being absent when it Arrived, his Father the brave old Colonel Cresop, 2 Now Ninety Two years of Age took the Command, and determines to join the Army, at their head, if his Son, should not arrive in Season. I saw a Lettr. from him this Morning which exceeded any thing I ever read. I will if possible get a Copy. Remember my Caution as to my Lettrs. RC (CtHi) . 1 Gates was also the bearer of a personal letter Deane wrote this day to his stepson, Samuel B. Webb, who was in the Second Regiment of Connecticut troops at Cambridge. Webb, Correspondence (Ford), 1:72-73. a This may have been in reference to Col. Thomas Cresap (1702-90) , pioneer of western Maryland, and his son Michael (1742-75) . The latter was commissioned captain of the 1st company of Maryland Rifles, June 21, 1775, but died of a chronic illness a few months later. DAB. Delaware Delegates to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 29th. 1775. The Bearer hereof, Mr. John Parke, has taken his degrees of Bachelor and Master of Arts in the College in this City, and studied the law under one of us (Mr. McKean) for almost four years. 1 He is an Ensign, in the 2d. Battalion of the Militia here, and is desirous of serving his country as a Volunteer under you. He has frequently drawn his pen and is now resolved to draw his sword in support of
