558 June 29, 1775 the American cause. We therefore beg leave to recommend him par ticularly to your countenance and favor and hope you will distinguish him agreeable to his merit as soon as an oppertunity of promotion presents. 2 We wish you health, success, happiness and every blessing Heaven can bestow, and are, Sir, Your most obedient humble servants Caesar Rodney Tho McKean RC (DLC). Written by Rodney and signed by McKean and Rodney. 1 John Parke (1754-89) , lawyer and poet from Kent County, Del., was appointed assistant quartermaster general of the army at Cambridge in August 1775. DAB. a A letter recommending Parke was also written by John Hancock to Elbridge Gerry. Hancock described Parke as “a gentleman of reputation here and firmly attached to the American cause,” and urged Gerry to “introduce him to the connection of our friends; you know who I mean.” Hancock to Elbridge Gerry, June 29, 1775, Magazine of American History 12 (July-December 1884) : 460. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 29th June 1775 Nothing material has occurred since you left this place, except the imperfect accounts we have of the Charlestown battle, which upon the whole seems to have nothing unfavorable to our great cause, but the loss of Dr. Warren. To an infant Country, it is loss indeed, to be deprived of wise, virtuous, and brave Citizens. I hope however, still to hear, that our Enemies have lost Characters very useful to them. We received the account of this engagement late on Saturday evening last, and a few of us immediately applied to, and prevailed with the Committee of this City, to dispatch 90 odd quarter Casks of powder to the Camp, which I hope will arrive safe and in good time. We are this day informed in Congress that the six Nations and Canada Indians are firmly disposed to observe a strick neutrality, and I think we shall endeavor to cultivate their friendship. The Con gress has been engaged these two days about the mutiny and military regulations, and at last we shall adopt those of Massachusetts with very few alterations. 1 You will see that we have again taken up the business of entering Canada, and have left the propriety of it to Gener. Schuyler. If it can be done, in a manner agreeable to the Cana dians, it will certainly shut the door against dangerous tampering with the Indians on all our Western frontiers. Nothing has yet been done about a Military Hospital, 2 and I suppose we shall wait for your return of the state of the Army. Dr. Shippen says that three young Gentlemen here perfectly compitent, will be ready when called on, to serve in the capacity of Surgeons.
