June 1775 561 Virginia Delegate to Unknown [Philadelphia, June 30, 1775] You will see that our enemies had little to boast of, for being able to force our troops from Bunker’s hill. It is no wonder they did so, with superior numbers, ships of war, floating batteries, and field artil lery. Their loss has certainly been very great, and now they dare not go from under protection of their ships cannon. Our army now be fore Boston amounts to about 15,000 effective men, commanded by generals Washington, Ward, Lee, Putnam, Gates of Berkeley, with several brigadiers. In New York, we have now about 4000; and they are to be increased to 5000, under the immediate command of gener al Schuyler. The Canadians absolutely refuse to join Carleton, and the Indians assure us they will observe a strict neutrality. Thus, we seem to be well secured in the north against ministerial madness. A faithful observance of the association with us will surely rouse the sleeping lion ere long, and bring exemplary punishment on the most abandoned ministry that ever abused mankind and disgraced human nature. Sir William Meredith has cheated the Liverpool-men, and they are sending out goods as usual; but all their ships, yet arrived, have been sent back. It will be necessary, however, to keep a good look-out, to prevent their slipping in through other doors less atten tively watched than this place, and Charlestown in South-Carolina. We are here confined to a constant and painful attendance on business, from 9 in the morning, to 4, 5, and sometimes 6, in the af ternoon; and, what is more, have not the most distant prospect of ris ing yet. We have sent to Virginia and Maryland for two companies of ri fle-men from each province, and six from this, to join the army be fore Boston. Two millions of dollars are ordered to be struck, upon the faith of the twelve united colonies, for the payment of the conti nental army. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Purdie) , July 21, 1775, “Supplement.” Printed under the heading: "Extract of a letter from one of the Virginia delegates, dated Philadelphia, June 30." Benjamin Franklin’s Vindication [June-July? 1775] 1 Forasmuch as the enemies of America in the Parliament of Great Britain, to render us odious to the nation, and give an ill impression of us in the minds of other European powers, have represented us as unjust and ungrateful in the highest degree; asserting, on every occa-
