568 July 1, 1775 RC (CtHi) . 1 See Deane to Philip Schuyler, July 3, 1775. a See JCC, 2:97. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philadela. July 1st. 1775 I duly Rec’d your Letters of 29 8c 30th ulto. (that Refer’d to by you of 28th not yet come to hand) and immediately laid them before the Congress, in Consequence of wch. I have their Directions to Transmitt you their Resolution, whereby you will observe that Genl Wooster is order’d with the Troops under his Command to Remain at New York, and that you Raise as many of the Green Mountain Boys 8c others in the Vicinity of Ticonda. as will be necessary to Exe cute the Resolutions of Congress I heretofore Transmitted you. 1 You will please particularly to Notice that altho’ the Congress have given you peremptory Instructions to Take or Destroy all the Boats Ves sells 8cc preparing by Gov Carlton on or near the Lake, yet with re spect to your proceedg. to Montreal 8c Quebeck such Circumstances are pointed out by their Resolution which they Expect you [to] be fully possess’d of previous to your undertakg the prosecution of that Expedition. I inclose you the Arrangement of the officers with their pay so far as has been determin’d by Congress, as soon as the whole is Settled you shall be made Acquainted; as to the Allowance of provisions, that at present must be left to your Discretion, untill you hear further from this Congress or the General on that Subject. I am to inform you that besides the Quantity of powder Sent from Connectict. to Ticonderoga, the Committee of this City by Desire of Congress yesterday Sent forward 50 quarter Casks of Powder to that place. Any Resolutions of Congress that take place respectg you I shall be Carefull immediately to transmitt you. I am Sir Your most Obedt. Servant. John Hancock president. [P.S.] If you are in Want of any more Commissions, let me know & they shall be sent, none are to be issued, but such as go from this Congress. RC (PHC). Tr (NN) . RC incomplete; signature and postscript supplied from Tr. ’See JCC, 2:123-24.
