July 2, 1775 571 Congress for the gunpowder requested by the delegates, Georgia having recently acquired more than six tons from a captured British schooner. To this end the Council of Safety sent William Henry Drayton and Miles Brewton to Savannah, where they succeeded in persuading the Provincial Congress to provide them with five thousand pounds of gunpowder, which they dispatched by ship to Philadel phia on July 21. On August 1 payment of $293 to the South Carolina delegates for gunpowder was approved “by order of Congress." JCC, 2:237; William Bell Clark et al., eds., Naval Documents of the American Revolution (Washington: Depart ment of the Navy, 1964- ) , 1:856, 931-32; and John Drayton, ed., Memoirs of the American Revolution, from its Commencement to the Year 1776, Inclusive; as Relating to the State of South-Carolina: and Occasionally Refering to the States of North-Carolina and Georgia, 2 vols. (Charleston, S. C.: A. E. Miller, 1821) , 1:271-73. a MS blank. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada July 2 1775. The Messrs. Hall of Maryland are just now arrivd here from Cam bridge which place they left the 22 Ult. They have brot us but one Letter, viz from our good Friend Coll Palmer. I am glad to hear that the Number of killed & wounded on the side of the Enemy amounts to so many more than 1000. I dare say you would not grudge them every last Hill near you upon the same Terms. A Gentleman of New York the Son of Mr. Phillip Livingston one of the Delegates from that place writes him that the Pilot who brot in the Nautil[us] Ship of War lately from Boston reports that he heard the officers on board frequently lament the Death of General Howe. If this be true I re- joyce in it, for that Man deservd to die for his Ingratitude. Indeed my Friend, your Cause here suffers by our not receiving more frequent and particular Accounts from you. The Delegates from the other three Colonies have better Intelligence of what is doing near Boston than your own. We know Nothing of the Disposi tion of the Army, not even who commanded in the late important Engagement. I know your hands are full of Business, but may not a Committee be appointed to collect and send to us material Intelli gence. There is a regular Post but we hardly think it worth while to send a Servant to the office for Letters. I have a thousand things to say to you which I cannot write. Did I not flatter my self that we were doing essential Service to the com mon Cause, I would not tarry here a Moment. Some Matters are agreed to and many more talkd of which I know you will be pleasd with—but let me tell you that were you here your Patience wd be tried. It is not in the Power of Man to create Events. Our Business is to foresee as far as we are able prepare for and improve them. It is my opinion that great ones will be produced in a short time. Perhaps
