586 July 5, 1775 from making any progress in the main business. At the same time, such an impatience for home seems to possess us all, that nothing keeps the Congress together but the visible certainty that, till our mil itary proceedings are got into a good train, their separation would endanger the common cause greatly. If things cannot be got into such a state soon as they may be left, we must petition to be exchanged, for fresh hands, that we may return to our families. P.S. After folding up my letter, we received an account, from an undoubted hand, that the mortality among the wounded regulars has been so great, that the killed on the spot, and those who have died of their wounds, make up 1000. The reason of this is, that they have been long confined to salt provisions, having not so much as a vege table, a drop of milk, or even any fresh meat. MS not found; reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:185-86, where the recipient and the reply to this letter are also discussed. Virginia Delegate to Unknown [Philadelphia, July 5, 1775] The last accounts from Boston, and which are pretty Authentick, inform us, that Gage lost in the late battle, of killed upon the spot, and since dead of their wounds, 1000 men, and that 500 are ill in the hospital of their wounds. General Howe is not killed, as was sup posed; but there is the greatest reason to believe General Burgoyne is among the slain, as he has certainly not been seen since the battle. In Boston, they give out, that he is gone home. Another battle is soon expected; and our people say, they are ready to give a good account of the enemy. We have not the smallest appearance yet of the Congress rising. On the contrary, business mul tiplies on us every day; And many insist, that we shall not rise whilst the armies keep the field. MS not found; reprinted from the Virginia Gazette (Purdie), July 21, 1775, “Supplement.” The extract follows another unidentified Virginia delegate letter, dated June 30, 1775, and appears under the heading: "Extract of another letter, from the same gentleman, dated Philadelphia, July 5." John Adams to William Tudor Dear Sir Phyladelphia July 6. 1775 I have at last the Pleasure of acknowledging your Favour of the 26 June. I have mourned, week after week, the loss of all my old Corre-
