July 6, 1775 587 spondents, in a Course of Time when they were of more Conse quence to me and to my Errand, than ever. What is become of Tu dor? Where is Tudor? Is he gone to England? Is he sick? Is he afraid to write? Is he gone into the Army, and become so intent on War with his Enemies, as to forget his Friends? These were Questions very often in our Mouths. But the Past shall be forgiven upon Condition, that you keep an exact Journal of occurrencies from day to day for the future and transmit it to me by every oppertunity. We have Spent this whole Day in debating Paragraph by Para graph, a Manifesto as some call it, or a Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of our taking up Arms. 1 It will be printed Tomorrow, and shall be transmitted as Soon as possible. It has Some Mercury in it, and is pretty frank, plain, and clear. If Lord North dont compli ment every Mothers Son of us, with a Bill of Attainder, in Exchange for it, I shall think it owing to Fear. Surely, upon the Same Principle that he has ordered or suffered Gage, to proclaim Adams and Hancock unpardonable, he must order all of Us to be declared so—for all have now gone further than they ever did. The military Spirit in this City, would agreably Surprise you. It breaks out into a great Variety of Forms—Rifle Men, Indians, Light Infantry, light Horse, Highlanders, with their Plaid and Bag Pipes, and German Hussars. This Morning a Person came to the Door of the State House where the Congress Sitts, in all his Pontificalibus. I went out to see him. His Errand was to shew us the Dress, and Armour of a German Hussar. A Stout Man, with an high large Cap on his Head, with a Streamer flowing from it down to his Waistband: a deaths Head painted on the Front of it. A large Hussar Cloak, ornamented with gold Cord, Lace, and Fringe. A Scarlet Waist coat underneath, with gold Button holes and yellow Mettal Buttons, double breasted—a light Musquet, Slung over his shoulder, and a Turkish Sabre or Scyme- tar by his side, longer, better fortified and more conveniently shaped than our Highland broad Sword. His Horse, well bridled, Saddled— Pistals in gold Holsters. An active Fellow, Slinging his Musket and Sabre about and mounting with great agility—taken all together the most formidable military Figure, I ever Saw. It Seems he has a great Inclination to See, Burgoines, light Horse. He tells us, he can inlist immediately 50 or 60, German Veterans who have long Served in Germany, and are as desirous of going in the Character of Hussars, or Troopers, as he is. 2 This would Set before our New England People, a fine Example for their Imitation: But what is of more Moment, it would engage the Affections of the Germans, of whom there are many in N. York,
