588 July 6, 1775 Pensylvania, Maryland and other Colonies, more intensely in the Cause of America. What will be done, I know not. Let me intreat you, as you love your Country, and your Friend write me by every oppertunity. My Compliments to your Father and Mother and all Friends. John Adams RC (MHi) . J Sce JCC, 2:127-57. The authorship and the evolution of the text of the “Declaration” has been discussed at length in Julian P. Boyd, “The Disputed Authorship of the Declaration on the Causes and Necessity for Taking Up Arms, 1775,” PMHB 74 (January 1950) : 51-73; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:187-219. 2 For further comments on this incident, see Adams’ second letter to James Warren this date. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Phyladelphia June [i.e. July] 6th. 1775 Every Line I receive from you, gives me great Pleasure, and is of vast Use to me in the public Cause. Your Letters were very usefull to me last Fall. Your Character became thus known, as much esteemed. The few Letters I have reed from you this Time, have increased the Desire of more, and Some other Gentlemen who happened to know you, particularly Governor Hopkins and Ward of Rhode Island have confirmed every good opinion which had been formed. I must intreat you to omit no opportunity of Writing and to be as particular as pos sible. Want of frequent Communication and particular Intelligence led us into the unfortunate Arrangement of General officers, which is likely to do so much Hurt. We never reed the most distant Intimation of any Design to new model your Army; and indeed Some of Us, were obliged to give up our own Judgments meerly from Respect to what We took to be the Arrangement of our provincial Congress. I have made it my Business ever Since I heard of this Error, to wait upon Gentn. of the Congress at their Lodgings, and else where to let them into the secret and contrive a Way to get out of the Difficulty, which I hope we shall effect. 1 I rejoice to hear of the great military Virtues and Abilities of Gen eral Thomas. Alas poor Warren! Dulce et decorum est pro Patria mori. Yet I regret his Appointment to such a Command. For God Sake my Friend let us be upon Guard, against too much Admiration of our greatest Friends. President of the Congress, Chairman of the Com mittee of Safety, Major General and Chief Surgeon of the Army, was too much for Mortal, and This accumulation of Admiration upon one Gentleman, which among the Hebrews was called Idolatry, has
