July 6, 1775 589 deprivd us forever of the Services of one of our best and ablest Men. We have not a sufficient Number of such Men left to be prodigal of their Lives in future. Every Brain is at Work to get Powder and salt Petre. I hope We shall Succeed: but We must be very Oeconomical of that Article. We must not use large Cannon, if We can possibly avoid it. This Letter will go by two fighting Quakers. Mr Stephen Collins [and John] Kaighn. The first is the most hospitable benevolent [man] alive. He is a Native of Lynn—a Brother of Ezra Collins of Boston, 8c—is rich, and usefull here. The last has been the Instru ment of raising a Quaker Company in this City, who behave well, and look beautifully in their Uniforms. My Love, Duty, Respect 8cc where due. Adieu John Adams [P.S.] Secret and confidential, as the Saying is. 2 The Congress is not yet So much alarmed as it ought to be. There are Still hopes, that Ministry and Parliament will immediately receed as Soon as they hear of the Battle of Lexington, the Spirit of New York 8c Phyladelphia, the Permanency of the Union of the Colonies 8cc: I think they are much deceived and that We shall have nothing but Deceit and Hostility, Fire, Famine, Pestilence and Sword, from Administration and Parliament. Yet the Colonies like all Bodies of Men must and will have their Way and their Humour, and even their Whims. These opinions of Some Colonies which are founded I think in their Wishes and Passions, their Hopes and Fears, rather than in Reason and Evidence will give a whimsical Cast to the Proceedings of this Congress. You will see a Strange Oscilation between Love and Hatred, between War and Peace. Preparations for War, and Nego- ciations for Peace. We must have a Petition to the King and a deli cate Proposal of Negociation 8cc. This Negociation I dread like Death. But it must be proposed. We cant avoid it. Discord and total Disunion would be the certain Effect of a resolute Refusal to petition and negociate. 3 My Hopes are that Ministry will be afraid of Nego ciation as well as We, and therefore refuse it. If they agree to it, We shall have occasion for all our Wit, Vigilance and Virtue to avoid being deceived, wheedled, threatened or bribed out of our Freedom. If we Strenously insist upon our Liberties, as I hope and am pretty sure We shall, however, a Negotiation, if agreed to, will terminate in Nothing. It will effect nothing. We may possibly gain Time and Pow der and Arms. You will see an Address to the People of G. Britain, another to those of Ireland, and another to Jamaica. You will also see a Spirited Manifesto. We ought immediately to dissolve all Ministerial Tyrannies, and Custom houses, set up Gov ernments of our own, like that of Connecticutt in all the Colonies,
