590 July 6, 1775 and confederate together like an indissoluble Band, for mutual de fence and open our Ports to all Nations immediately. This is the sys tem that your Friend has aimed at promoting from first to last; But the Colonies are not yet ripe for it. A Bill of Attainder, &c may soon ripen them. RC (MHi) . Adams had mistakenly written June in the dateline, but the contents o£ the letter indicate that it was written in July. 'John Thomas (1724-76) threatened to resign when William Heath, his junior in the Massachusetts service, was ranked above him in the brigadier generals’ list. On July 19, Congress promoted Thomas to Seth Pomeroy’s spot as first brigadier general. JCC, 2:191; Allen French, The First Year of the American Revolution (Boston and New York: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1934), pp. 295, 304-6, 753-54; and DAB. 3 Adams wrote this postscript in a small hand, in a narrow column of a separate sheet of paper, and enclosed it with the larger letter to Warren. 3 Adams recalled these divisions in his autobiography, where his most bitter comments centered on the Petition to the King. “This Measure of Imbecility, the second Petition to the King embarrassed every Exertion of Congress: it occasioned Motions and debates without End for appointing Committees to draw up a declaration of the Causes, Motives, and Objects of taking Arms, with a view to obtain decisive declarations against Independence &c. In the Mean time the New England Army investing Boston, the New England Legislatures, Congresses and Conventions, and the whole Body of the People, were left, without Munitions of War, without Arms, Cloathing, Pay or even Countenance and Encouragement.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield) , 3:321. John Adams to James Warren Dr sir Phyladelphia June [i.e. July] 6th 1775 I have this Moment Sealed a Letter to you which is to go by my hospitable, honest, benevolent Friend Stephen Collins. But, I have several Particulars to mention to you, which are omitted in that Let ter. Ten Companies of expert Riflemen have been ordered already, from the 3 Colonies of P [ennsylvania], M [aryland], & V [irginia]. Some of them have marched, under excellent officers. We are told by Gentlemen here that these Riflemen are Men of Property and Fami ly, some of them of independent Fortunes, who go from the purest Motives of Patriotism and Benevolence into this service. I hope they will have Justice done them and Respect shewn them by our People of every Rank and order. I hope also that our People will learn from them the Use of that excellent Weapon a Rifled barrell’d Gun. A few Minutes past, a curious Phenomenon appeared at the Door of our Congress. A German Hussar, a veteran in the Wars of Ger many, in his Uniform, and on Horse back, a forlorn Cap upon his Head, with a Streamer waiving from it half down to his Waistband, with a Deaths Head painted in Front a beautiful Hussar Cloak orna-
