July 7, 1775 603 I am grieved for Dr. Tufts’s ill Health: but rejoiced exceedingly at his virtuous Exertions in the Cause of his Country. I am happy to hear that my Brothers were at Grape Island and be haved well. My Love to them, and Duty to my Mother. It gives me more Pleasure than I can express to learn that you sus tain with so much Fortitude, the Shocks and Terrors of the Times. You are really brave, my dear, you are an Heroine. And you have Reason to be. For the worst that can happen, can do you no Harm. A soul, as pure, as benevolent, as virtuous and pious as yours has nothing to fear, but every Thing to hope and expect from the last of human Evils. Am glad you have secured an Assylum, tho I hope you will not have occasion for it. Love to Brother Cranch and sister and the Children. There is an amiable, ingenious Hussy, named Betcy Smith, for whom I have a very great Regard. Be pleased to make my Love ac ceptable to her, and let her know, that her elegant Pen cannot be more usefully employed than in Writing Letters to her Brother at Phyladelphia, tho it may more agreably in writing Billet doux to young Gentlemen. The other Day, after I had received a Letter of yours, with one or two others, Mr. William Barrell desired to read them. I put them into his Hand, and the next Morning had them returned in a large Bundle packed up with two great Heaps of Pins, with a very polite Card re questing Portias Acceptance of them. I shall bring them with me [when] I return: But when that will be is uncertain. I hope not more than a Month hence. I have really had a very disagreable Time of it. My Health and es- pecialy my Eyes have been so very bad, that I have not been so fit for Business as I ought, and if I had been in perfect Health, I should have had in the present Condition of my Country and my Friends, no Taste for Pleasure. But Dr. Young has made a kind of Cure of my Health and Dr. Church of my Eyes. Have received two kind Letters from your Unkle Smith—do thank him for them—I shall forever love him for them. I love every Body that writes to me. I am forever yours. RC (MHi) . Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) , 1:241—43. Silas Deane’s Diary Friday 7 th. At Congress still on petition. 1 [July 7, 1775]
