604 July 7, 1775 MS (CtHi) . CHS Bulletin 29 (July 1964) : 93. 1 According to the journals, the address to the inhabitants of Great Britain was considered this day. The second petition to the king was approved and ordered engrossed July 5 and was signed July 8. JCC, 2:127, 157-58. John Dickinson to Arthur Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 7th 1775 The enclos’d will convince You how Affairs stand in America. 1 I am Sir, your Affectionate friend. {John Dickinson) [P.S.] The Bearer Dr. Hutchinson, a worthy young Gentleman of this place, can give You a Detail of the several Engagements at Bos ton &c. 2 As several Copies of the Deci [arati] on are gone by this Ship with several Errors in them, it may be projier to have the inclos’d put first into the Press. RC (MH) . In the hand of John Dickinson; signature inked out. 1 Apparently a copy of the Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking up Arms. ’Undoubtedly James Hutchinson (1752-93) , Philadelphia physician, who went to England at this time to complete his medical studies under Dr. John Fothergill of London. DAB. Benjamin Franklin to Jonathan Shipley Philada July 7. 1775 I received with great Pleasure my dear Friends very kind Letter of April 19, as it informed me of his Welfare, and that of the amiable Family in Jermyn Street. I am much obliged by the Information of what passed in Parliament after my departure; in return I will en deavor to give you a short Sketch of the State of Affairs here. I found at my arrival all America from one End of the 12 united Provinces to the other, busily employed in learning the Use of Arms. The Attack upon the Country People near Boston by the Army had rous’d every Body, & exasperated the whole Continent. The Trades men of this City were in the Field twice a day, at 5 in the Morning, and Six in the Afternoon, disciplining with the utmost Diligence, all being Volunteers. We have now three Battalions, a Troop of Light Horse, and a company of Artillery, who have made surprizing Prog ress. The same Spirit appears every where and the Unanimity is amazing.
