606 July 7, 1775 necessary to the Comfort of Life, & generally import only Luxuries and Superfluities, her preventing our doing that, will in some respects contribute to our Prosperity. By the present Stoppage of our Trade we save between four and five Millions per Annum which will do something towards the Expence of the War. What she will get by it, I must leave to be computed by her own political Arithmeticians. These are some of my present Ideas which I throw out to you on the Freedom of Friendship. Perhaps I am too sanguine in my opinion of our Abilities for the Defence of our Country after we shall have giv en up our Seaports to Destruction; but a little time will shew. General Gage we understand enter’d into a Treaty with the Inhab itants of Boston, whom he had confin’d by his Works, in which Treaty it was agreed that if they delivered their Arms to the Select Men, their own Magistrates, they were to be permitted to go out with their Effects. As soon as they had so delivered their Arms, he seiz’d them and then cavil’d about the meaning of the word Effects which he said was only wearing Apparel and Household Furniture, and not Merchandize or Shop Goods which he therefore detains: And the continual Injuries and Insults they met with from the Soldiery, made them glad to get out by relinquishing all that kind of Property. How much those People have suffered, and are now suffering rather than submit to what they think unconstitutional Acts of Parliament is real ly amazing. Two or three Letters I send you enclosed may give you some, tho’ a faint Idea of it. Gage’s Perfidy has now made him uni versally detested. When I consider that all this Mischief is done my Country, by Englishmen and Protestant Christians, of a Nation among whom I have so many personal Friends, I am ashamed to feel any Consolation in a prospect of Revenge; I chuse to draw it rather from a Confidence that we shall sooner or later obtain Reparation. I have proposed therefore to our People that they keep just Accounts, and never resume the Commerce or the Union, ’till Satisfaction is made. If it is refused for 20 Years, I think we shall then be able to take it with Interest. Your excellent Advice was that if we must have a War, let it be carried on as between Nations who had once been Friends &: wish to be so again. In this ministerial War against us, all Europe is conjur’d not to sell us Arms or Amunition, that we may be found defenceless, & more easily murdered. The humane Sir W. Draper, who had been hospitably entertain’d in every one of our Colonies, proposes, in his Papers call’d the Traveller, 2 to excite the Domestic Slaves, you have sold us, to cut their Master’s Throats. Dr. Johnson a Court Pension er, in his Taxation no Tyranny adopts and recommends that Meas ure, together with another of hiring the Indian Savages to assassinate our Planters in the Back Settlements. They are the poorest & most in nocent of all People; and the Indian manner is to murder and scalp
