July 8, 1775 609 follow the noble example. They say the Americans are cowards, pol troons, dare not fight; yet these doughty heroes take care to deprive us of the means of defence. If we are so fearful, why disarm us? But they know the contrary. In the first of General Gage’s attempts against the people, his regulars were put to flight by half their num ber of militia, without officers or commanders. . . . This account comes through men of character on the spot, and may be depended on; it is confirmed by most undoubted letters, and you may say so. There are now marching to the camp, a thousand riflemen. They are, at ’listing, rejected, unless they can hit a playing-card, without a rest, at one hundred and twenty yards distance. Almost every fenci- ble man, in all the colonies, is trained, and ready to supply any loss. The regulars have, in any case, never appeared equal to our troops, man for man. What, then, have we to fear? loss of money, alone; and may the wretch perish, who puts that in competition. Will Lord Ef fingham come to us? he would be almost adored. 1 Dear sir, can the friends of old England find no way to stop this fatal war going on—to the certain destruction of that once great state? All America pants for reconciliation; they dread, what may be easily prevented by government, a total separation. Should war go on another year, a government must be formed here—it is unavoidable; and when once that is done, it will be, I fear, impossible to restore the connection. When America acts unitedly, she will feel herself too strong to submit to such restrictions as she now does. In short, the time will be past. The people of New-York are now fixed on the side of liberty. Georgia is near coming in. Mrs. Lynch unites with me, in compliments to Mrs Izard. We hope to see you, before we leave this part of America. Your affec tionate friend, Thomas Lynch. MS not found; reprinted from Ralph Izard, Correspondence of Mr. Ralph Izard of South Carolina, from the Year 1774 to 1804; with a Short Memoir, ed. Anne Izard Deas (New York: Charles S. Francis & Co., 1844) , pp. 99-101. 'Thomas Howard, third Earl of Effingham (1747-91), eccentric British Army officer, was well known for his sympathy with the American cause both before and during the War for Independence. Sir Egerton Brydges, K. J., Collins Peerage of England; Genealogical, Biographical, and Historical . . ., 9 vols. (London: F. C. and J. Rivington et al., 1812) , 4:282. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Saturday July 8th. 1775 I have wrote You many Lettrs. My last was by Govr Skene, who set off yesterday, for Wethersfeild who carried Letters from Me. His
