620 July 10, 1775 Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Sr Philadelphia July 10th 1775 I have only time in Congress this moment to Inclose you this Mornings paper Containing a declaration of the United Colonies set ting forth the Causes of their taking up Arms &c also their Address to the Inhabitants of Great Britain which together with Another Peti tion to the King are this day forwarded to London by Mr Richard Penn late Govr of this Province who is gone for England with his family to reside there sometime. He is Esteemd Very Friendly to the American Cause & is joind with our Agents there to Present the Peti tion to the King. We hope before it arrives by the Blessing of Heaven attending our Army a good Account may be given of the Hostile Troops sent over to this country for Murther &: rapine. The Riflers from this Province are on their March. Hope they may prove service able & give a good Account of the British officers before summer is out. Before this I dare say you have Welcomed the New Genlls to the Camp. Hope they may fully Answer the expectations of the Army as well as the Colonies from them. I wish you may succeed in the Ap pointment for which Application was made for you. I hope you will not fail procuring any additional weight if necessary. Expect soon to hear from you. May Heaven give Success to our Army. My regard to Genlls, Colls, &:c &c of our Acquaintance &: believe me to be sincere ly Yours Elipht Dyer P.S. You will see by the New Arrangement that the Companies are to Consist of but 68 privates which will Make room for a Number more officers in the Connecticutt Troops. I wish (if so) you would remember to his honor the Govr as probably the appointment will lye with him Lieuts Grosvenor & Gray for Captains. They ought at first to have had that birth. Grosvenor has been Tryed in Action, Gray we all think will prove well. Yrs. E D RC (Ct). John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia July 10th. 1775 Since my last to you, nothing has Taken place in Congress particu larly Respecting your Department. I by order of Congress forward you the Declaration, & Address to the People of England. I must beg the favour you will Reserve some birth for me, in such Department as you may Judge most proper, for I am Determin’d to
