July 15, 1775 627 the Occasion—that Worster talks high of his Thirty Years Services, and that Spencer left his Forces, to shift for themselves, though ex pecting hourly to be attacked, to return home, and pray an Altera tion. I see the Bottom of the whole, and am well aware that the Storm is raised, or at least blown up, by others, and am at no Loss to fore see the direction of it, but am determined to do my duty, and will on no Occasion sacrifice, the good of my Country, to the whim of any old Man, or old Woman rather, or their sticklers. When Worster was appointed I wash’d my hands of the Consequences by declaring him, in my Opinion, totally unequall to the Service. This I did openly in the Face of the Assembly, and if I tho’t him unfit for a Major Gener al of Connecticut Forces only, could any one think, I would oppose the Voice of the Continent, & act contrary to my own Sentiments, by labouring to prefer him to Putnam, on whom, by every Acct, the whole Army has depended, ever since the Lexington Battle? I wish all such Men would leave Our Army at once. As to Spencer, I once had a good Opinion of him, but his leaving the Forces in the Manner I hear he has, shocks it very greatly, and if true I wish him to resign at once and let Another take his place. Pray listen to these reports, and inform Me, how farr I am charged with being Active in this Ar rangement. I have various reasons to expect their Freinds will Father it all on the old ScapeGoat, as Sherman is known to be in favor of Worster, & Dyer and Spencer are Brother Councellors. 1 If the Warr lasts I hope Matters will come into a more regular, 8c decisive Course than They 2 RC (CtHi). 1 For other references concerning the appointment of general officers, see Eli- phalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, June 20, 1775. a Remainder of MS missing. Edmund Pendleton to William Woodford Dear Sir Phila. July 15th. 1775 Mr. Spotswood leaves this tomorrow morning 8c intends to contin ue his journey to Richmond, which affords me an Opportunity of paying my Respects, tho’ there is nothing worth relating since my last to Colo. Taylor that I now recollect. Should there be any thing, Mr. Spotswood will deliver it you. We are quite at a loss for the reason of not hearing from our General who has been at the Camp a fortnight, 8c various conjectures are formed on the Occasion; I know he is clear of meriting blame 8c therefore think an Action happened about the time his express should have come away 8c he waits to send us the event 8c particulars of it, but this is mere Opinion 8c a whisper on the contrary runs about Town that Gage has sent proposals to our Genl. 579-852 0 - 77 - 42 Vol.l
