July 17, 1775 631 2 A committee to recommend compensation for Samuel Kirkland’s services among the Indians was appointed this day and reported the next. ICC, 2:186-87. Deane was also a member of a committee to recommend ways and means to protect the trade of the colonies, which reported on July 21 and may also have met this day. JCC, 2:177, 200. Lyman Hall to Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant Philadelphia. July 17. 1775. Wishes Sergeant 1 had come to Phila delphia so that he, Hall, could “have Adjusted & Settled the Inclosed Acct.” Proposes to pay Sergeant “from £50 to 80 or 90, &: more if I can Directly.” RC (PHi). 1 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant (1746-93), Princeton lawyer, member of the New Jersey Provincial Congress, and a delegate to Congress, 1776-77. Bio. Dir. Cong.; and DAB. John Hancock to Peter Van Brugh Livingston Philadelphia, July 17, 1775. Sir, Major General Schuyler having represented to the Congress the necessity of appointing a deputy adjutant-general or a brigade-major for the troops under his command, I am ordered to send you the fol lowing resolve passed this day. 1 I am, Sir, Your obedt. humble servt. John Hancock, President. [P.S.] I inclose you an Authenticated Commission to be fill’d up with the Name of the Gentleman appointed by your Congress. You will please to make a Return to me of the person so appointed. The Inclos’d Letter for General Schuyler, I beg you will immedi ately forward to him by Express. [P.S.] Please to forward by the Express to General Schuyler a Num ber of the Articles of War. I forwarded them to New York, directed to Genl Schuyler but apprehend they did not meet him there, as he has wrote me for them from Albany. The commission referred to is sent by Mr. Lewis. RC (N) . Journals of N. Y. Prov. Cong., 2:4. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 This day Congress authorized the New York Provincial Convention “to recom mend to Genl. Schuyler, a proper person for a deputy adjutant general or a Brigade Major, for the army in the New York department.” JCC, 2:186. The New
