July 20, 1775 639 mous applause of this Continent. Let it be remembered he had every Vote of the Congress, and his health has been the second or third at almost all Our Tables in This City, but it seems he does not Wear a large Wigg nor screw his Countenance into a form that belies the sentiments of his generous Soul. He is no adept either at political or religious canting & cozening, he is no shake hand body, he therefore is totally unfit for every thing, but only fighting. That Department I never heard that these intriguing Gentry wanted to interfere with him in. I have scarce any patience, O Heav’n! blast, I implore Thee ev ery such low, narrow, selfish, envious maneuvre in the bud, nor let one such succeed far enough to stain the fair page of American pa triotic politics! General Washington writes, that Spencer left his post without so much as waiting on him, or sending him a Single Word of his Inten tions. You can be at no Loss to infer what Opinion is formed of him from this Conduct indoors 8c out, suffice it to say the Voice here is that he acted a part, inconsistent, with the Character, either of a Sol dier, a Patriot, or even of a Common Gentleman to desert his post in an hour of Danger, to sacrifice his Country, which he certainly did as farr as was in his power, and to turn his back sullenly on his General, a General too of such exalted worth, and Character, will I can assure you, unless he take the most Speedy & effectual Measures to atone, draw down upon him the Resentment of the whole Continent. I am daily, 8c hourly making as fair Weather as possible of this transaction, and a painful task it is. It is one I am unused to, and therefore labor hard to gloss over what I condemn from the bottom of my Soul. But my principles are, (the Eye of my God knows them, and the most envious Eye of Man, nor the bitterest Tongue of Slander, can not find any thing in my political Conduct to contradict them) they are to sacrifice all lesser considerations to the service of the whole and in this Tempestuous season, to Throw chearfully overboard, private Fortune, private emoluments 8c all partial, or interested Views, even my Life, if the Ship with the Jewel Liberty on board may be saved. This being my Line of Conduct, I have a Calmness of Mind I thank God resulting from such resolutions which more than ballances, ev ery external Trouble, of which I have not a few, and of which the late Conduct of a part of Our Officers in Support of Spencer is not the least. Inclosed I send a Letter for Parsons which please to read, then Copy, seal, and forward. I will say no more on the very disa greeable Subject than, that the Copy and this Letter may hereafter shew my Sentiments at the Time. I am glad Our Assembly did not interpose in favor of Spencer. They have hereby acted up to the high Character they sustain with the Congress and the only consistent part He, Spencer, can now act is to throw up his Commission, 8c give place to Men who do not think
