644 July 21, 1775 wrote an endorsement on another copy of the proposed articles, which is located in PCC, item 9, and reads as follows: “July 21, 1775. Agreeably to Order the Congress resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole to take into Consideration the State of America, when doct. B. Franklin submitted to their Consideration the following Sketch of Articles of Confederation.” A discussion of the various surviving copies of Franklin’s proposed articles, among which is a copy annotated by Thomas Jefferson, can be found in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:177-82. In addition to the copies discussed by Boyd, there is a copy in the hand of Josiah Bartlett in the Peter Force Papers, DLC, and an incomplete copy in the Samuel Ward Papers, RHi, of which articles one through three are in the hand of Charles Thomson and four through eleven are in the hand of Samuel Ward. Variations between these copies and the other surviving ones are slight. However, the copy in James Duane’s Papers, NHi, contains the following marginal comments, in an unidentified hand, pertaining to articles 7 and 9 of Franklin’s document. “The delegates from each colony [cf. Article 7] should be changed as the Council is & I believe that if each colony had but one vote in the present manner of voting it would be a more equal government; but much may be said on this Subject; it requires consideration. This council [cf. Article 9] should consist of one from each colony.” It is interesting that the journals of Congress contain no mention of the submission of Franklin’s proposed resolutions this date, perhaps simply because Franklin submitted them in the committee of the whole, and they were not laid before the Congress. For a discussion of a similar instance in which the journals are silent on a significant matter brought before the delegates, see Joseph Gallo way’s Proposed Resolution, September 28, 1774, note. See also Benjamin Harrison to Unknown, November 24, 1775; Silas Deane’s Proposals to Congress, November ? 1775; and Richard Smith’s Diary, January 16, 1776. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Congress Chamber July 21st. 1775. Forwards July 20 resolution of Congress about the employment of the Continental Army in New York. 1 Tr (NN) . ’See JCC, 2:194. Benjamin Harrison to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia July 21st. 1775 I Rec’d your very Acceptable favour of the 10th Inst, by Express. Your fatigue 8c various kinds of trouble, I dare Say are great, but they are not more than I Expected, knowing the people you have to deal with by the Sample we have here. The Congress have Taken the Two Regiments now Raising in Connecticutt into Service which with Riflemen & Recruits to your Regimts. will I hope make up the Num ber voted by your Council of War. I wish with all my Heart your
