July 21, 1775 645 Troops were better & your Stores more Complete. Every thing that we can do here to put you in the best posture possible I think you may depend will be done. I trust you will have a Supply soon of Am munition, without any Accident you may Depend on it. The want of Engineers I fear is not to be Supplied in America. Some folks here seem’d much displeas’d at your Report on this hehd, they Affirm there are two very good ones with you, a Coll Gridley I think is one. I took the Liberty to say they must be mistaken, they were certainly either not in the Camp, or could not have the Skill they were pleas’d to Say they had. This in my soft way put a Stop to any thing more on this Subject, indeed, my Friend, I do not know what to think of some of these Men, they seem exceeding hearty in the Cause, but still wish to keep every thing among themselves. Our President is quite of a different Cast, Noble, Disinterested & Generous to a very great De gree. The Congress have given you the Appointment of Three Bri gade Majors. Mr Trumbull has the office you propos’d for him. The appointment of Commissary of Artillery, of Musters, 8c Quarter Mas ter General are also left to your Disposal. Nothing is yet done as to the Hospitall, but I will bring it on very soon. Your Brothers in the Delegation have Recommended it to our Convention to Send some Virginians to the Camp at the Expence of our Colony to learn the Military Art, 8c I hope you will see them soon. 1 We have given the Commission of First Brigadier to Mr Thomas as Putnam’s Commis sion was deliver’d it would perhaps have offended the old Gentn. to have superceeded him; the other I hope will still Act, the Congress have from your Accott. a high Opinion of him, 8c I dare Say will grant any thing in their power that he may here after Require. Your Hint of the Removal of the Congress to some place nearer to you will come on to morrow, I think it will not Answer your Expectations if we should Remove, You shall have the Result in the Close of this. 2 The Military Chest I hope will be Supplied soon, they begin to Strike the Bills this day, so that I hope some may be forwarded to you next week. What has Occasion’d a Delay of this Article I know not. With out, an Imitation of the Congress in its Slowness has become fashion able. I have had no farther Accott. from our Country about the Gov ernor, except that he is still at York Town with three Men of War. He, Montague 8c [Foye] went the other Day by Water to his Farm, and were within three or four Minutes of being all Taken by Capt Meredith from Hanover, who are with about 150 Men from other Counties guarding Williamsbg. from any Attempt he may make with his boiled Crabs. Meredith says, his Intentions were to Carry his Lordship to Williamsburg to put him into the Palace 8c promise him protection, to convince him 8c the World that no Injury was intended him. However as he missed his Stroke, I dare Say he will be Charg’d with intending to murder him. We think the Season too far Advanc’d
