652 July 23, 1775 public Virtue seem to be lost out of the World. Enough of this. I have laboured with my Colleagues to agree upon proper Persons to recommend for a Quarter Master General, a Commissary of Mus ters and a Commissary of Artillery, but in vain. The Consequence has been that the appointment of these important, and lucrative Officers is left to the General, against every proper Rule and Princi ple, as these offices are Checks upon his. This is a great Misfortune to our Colony, however, I hope that you and others will think of proper Persons and recommend them to the General. 2 There is, my Friend, in our Colony a great Number of Persons, well qualified for Places in the Army, who have lost their all, by the outrages of Tyranny, whom I wish to hear provided for. Many of them will occur to you. I beg leave to mention a few. Henry Knox, William Bant, young Hitchbourne, 3 the Lawyer, William Tudor, and Perez Morton. These are young Gentlemen of Education and Ac complishments, in civil Life, as well as good Soldiers; and if at this Time initiated into the service of their Country might become in Time and with Experience, able officers. If they could be made Cap tains or Brigade Majors, or put into some little Places at present I am very sure, their Country would loose nothing by it, in Reputation or otherwise. A certain Delicacy which is necessary to a good Charac ter, may have prevented their making any applications, but I know they are desirous of serving. I must enjoin Secrecy upon you, in as strong Terms as Mr Hutch inson used to his confidential Correspondents; and then confess to you, that I never was Since my Birth, so compleatly miserable as I have been since the Tenth of April. Bad Health, blind Eyes, want of Intelligence from our Colony, and above all the unfortunate and fatal Division, in our own Seat in Congress, which has lost us Reputation, as well as many great Advantages which We might otherwise have obtained for our Colony, have made me often envy the active Hero in the Field, who, if he does his own Duty, is sure of applause, tho he falls in the Execution of it. It is a vast and complicated System of Business which We have gone through, and We were all of us, unexperienced in it. Many Things may be wrong, but no small Proportion of these are to be at tributed to the Want of Concert, and Union among the Mass. Dele gates. We have passed a Resolution, that each Colony make such Provi sion as it thinks proper and can afford, for defending their Trade in Harbours, Rivers, and on the sea Coast, against Cutters and Tenders. 4 We have had in Contemplation a Resolution to invite all Nations to bring their Commodities to Market here, and like Fools have lost it for the present.® This is a great Idea. What shall We do? Shall We invite all Nations to come with their Luxuries, as well as
