July 23, 1775 653 Conveniences and Necessaries? or shall We think of confining our Trade with them to our own Bottoms, which alone can lay a Founda tion for great Wealth and naval Power. Pray think of it. I rejoice that the Generals and Coll Reed and Major Mifflin are so well received. My most respectfull Compliments to them all. I thank you and Mrs. Warren a thousand Times for her kind and elegant Letter. Intreat a Continuance of her Favours in this Way, to your old Friend. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand though not signed. Addressed: "To the Hon James Warren Esqr Watertown, favoured by Mr. Hitchboume.” Although Benjamin Hichbom was subsequently captured enroute to Massachusetts, Warren wrote to Adams on July 31st that he had received this letter. Since other letters in Hichborn’s care were confiscated and published by the British, the manner in which this letter was delivered remains something of a mystery. See Warren-Adams Letters, 1:95; and Adams to Abigail Adams, July 24, 1775, note. 1 See JCC, 2:191. “After Warren had met with Washington on August 1, he reported to Adams: “I find the Colony, as you predicted, will suffer by referring the appointments you mention to him. They will, I think, go to the southward.” Warren-Adams Letters, 1:97. ’This recommendation of Benjamin Hichborn, coupled with the fact that Adams wrote at least four letters on July 23, casts doubt upon his later explana tion of how he happened on the 24th to write the two famous letters to Warren and Abigail which were intercepted and published, to his considerable embarrass ment. Adams explained in his autobiography that: “A young Gentleman from Boston, Mr. Hitchbourne, whom I had known as a Clerk in Mr. Fitch’s office, but with whom I had no Particular connection or Acquaintance, had been for some days soliciting me, to give him Letters to my Friends in the Massachusetts. I was so engaged in the Business of Congress in the day time and in consultations with the Members on Evenings and Mornings that I could not find time to write a Line. He came to me at last and said he was immediately to sett off, on his Journey home, and begged I would give him some Letters. I told him I had not been able to write any. He prayed I would write if it were only a Line to my Family, for he said, as he had served his Clerkship with Mr. Fitch he was suspected and represented as a Tory, and this Reputation would be his ruin, if it could not [be] corrected, for nobody would employ him at the Bar. If I would only give him, the slightest Letters to any of my Friends, it would give him the Appearance of having my Confidence, and would assist him in acquiring what he truly deserved the Charac ter of a Whigg. To get rid of his importunity, I took my Penn, and wrote a very few Lines to my Wife and about an equal Number to General James Warren.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:318-19. ‘See JCC, 2:189. ’On July 21 and 22 Congress considered the report of the committee "to devise ways and means to protect the trade of these colonies,” but on the 22d "the same was postponed to be taken up at some future day.” JCC, 2:200-202. Silas Deane to Elizabeth Deane My Dear Philadelphia July 23d 1775 I reply’d particularly to Your’s respecting Spencer and inclosed a
