654 July 23, 1775 Lettr. To Parsons, both of which I trust you received, nothing New has since occurred worth transmitting. The Congress (I think) will adjourn, in Two Weeks to the 10th of September but whither to meet here or in Connecticut uncertain. If here the Time will admit only of seeing my Freinds & returning in Season, in which case the Southern Gentlemen will not return at all, but some of them take a Tour, to the Camp, or elsewhere in New England. I hope to be at home in Three Weeks if I get my Carriage repaired in Season. It must be made in a Manner New. Mr. Sherman is I think, peculiarly Unfor tunate, at Philadelphia, tho by no means faulty. I may not add, 8c indeed should not have wrote This, but That I will let no Opportunity slip me, if it give Me only the pleasure of say ing Howd’ye do. Remember Me to all, particularly to Sally. How is the weather? Are not the Evenings warm. I am &c S Deane [P.S.] This is stole from Sunday after hearing Two elegant Warr Sermons. RC (CtHi) . Eliphalet Dyer to William Judd Dear Sr Philadelphia July 23d 1775 I this day heard by Capt Strong that you 1 was on your waye to Susquehannah and about to settle there and that your design was on the West branch. I am Very glad that a Gentn. of the Capacity & Abilities I esteem you (Without flattery) to be possessed of is about to move into that Country as Gentn of knowledge 8c prudence may be of great service there especially at this Critical time when a jarr between two Colonies may be of allmost fatal Consequence to the whole. 2 I am therefore obliged for your prudent Conduct to let you know that the Proprietor their Friends Agents, 8c land Jobbers who have purchased large Tracts in our Country are extreemly Jealous least we from Connecticutt take advantage of the times and press upon 8c Violently remove their people from their settlements. They have propagated that Opinion among the Penns people on the West branch 8c below Wyoming 8c that part of the forces raised in Connect icut are for that purpose, that our assembly in this time of distress are making strides into that Country extending their Claim 8cc, 8c In deed they goe farther 8c trye to possess the minds of Southern Gentn of the Congress that we are a hardy daring enterprising people 8c if we prove Successful against the Ministerial Army here we shall after that make our way by force into any the Southern Colonies we
