July 28, 1775 655 please. Mr Dickinson the Pensylvania farmer as he is Called in his Writings is lately most bitter against us & Indeavours to make every ill Impression upon the Congress against us but I may say he is not very highly Esteemd in Congress. He has taken a part very different from what I believe was expected from the Country in general or from his Constituents. But Sr I mean to let you know 8c be apprised that a little Matter, a little driving or Imprudence now in that Coun try may blow all up into a flame or the least threat or offer of force or Violence. Therefore Sr hope you will take every precaution 8c guard our people against every appearance of that kind. Let all the seders under the propriet [or] s & their land holders know they will not be put off by force but may be quieted in their actual possessions & Improvements as their own on the most reasonable terms, free from quit rents or Services to any. Flatter them to let our people set down among them on the Vacant lands, I mean the Common people and let them know as far as you can make them understand, how much better it will be for them to come in under our Colony 8c that they will be secured by Our Government. If you are about to settle a Township let those who are settled under Penn within the Limits know that they shall have a part with you where they are setled down 8c Actually Improved to Some more or less if even a hundred acres to some & that they shall be one with you. The Proprietors of every Township have a right to do this, to flatter in the bulk of the People will be the wisest method at present and We can deal with the great land holders by 8c by when we have the main of the people [on] our side. For some of the great purchasers there Under Penn would be glad also to purchase in the Connecticutt Claim. I believe it would be best to take in some of the greatest Influence in that way but it will not do abruptly to goe with a Number to the West branch for they have lately been made very Jealous. You must goe first 8c only with one or two. Let the people know that your designs are not of force, gain their Consent 8c get gradual possession. Do not be fond to exer cise Jurisdiction (as I understand you are appointed Juste Pacis there) where they do not own the Connecticutt Claim. I mean it will not do at this time to force your Authority among our own people 8c who are setled under Connecticutt. I hope the best order may be ob served, that you may conduce much to by some proper harangue in some of your publick Meetings 8cc 8c the Necessity of keeping up Au thority. I want to have you frilly gaine the affections of 8c Confidence in the people in that part, every thing in my power to Serve you there or with us will not be wanting. You may be free to Communicate to me whatever you think proper in Confidence or otherwise. Finally do all the good you can, Cultivate a good understanding with brethren in Authority. If the authority do not Unite but take a Contrary part to each other, you are all ruind. Your Sup[erio]r knowledge will
