July 24, 1775 661 best posture of defence possible, and to apply to Connecticut for Powder. You can have no prospect of any from this place. I hope Peace will be preserved between You, & those claiming un der Penn, should Violences of any kind be committed the Conse quences will be terrible beyond description, as Our Enemies will be sure to take advantage of the Times, and prejudice the Colonies against Our Claim, and it is probable as things are ripening that the Colonies will be Our Judges at last. I am wishing You, & the Settlers all possible happiness & success. Your most Humle. Servt. Silas Deane P.S. You may rely upon it, that any rash Measures, at this Time, will ruin Our Cause forever—by no means attempt to disseize peaceable possessors. You will draw the resentment of the Congress if You do. Cannot You obtain a friendly Association for the present between both parties for mutual defence, a petition to the Congress (in Case of Danger), from the whole, of the Inhabitants, will undoubtedly be attended to but if a party should petition, it will occasion the greatest Susspicion possible. I am very Anxious least some violent Stepps should be taken, but hope You will be able to prevent them. RC (PWbH) . 1 Zebulon Butler (1731-95), a director of the Susquehannah Company and representative for Westmoreland in the Connecticut assembly, was a leader of the Connecticut settlers in the Wyoming valley. DAB. Deane’s attempts to avert a crisis are more fully explained in his letter to Thomas Mumford, October 16? 1775. For other references to the dispute, see Eliphalet Dyer to William Judd, July 23, 1775, note. John Hancock to Artemas Ward and John Thomas Dear Sirs Philadelphia July 24th. 1775 The Bearer Capt Thomas Price who Commands a Company of Rifle Men from Maryland, is a Gentleman of [. . .] great Reputa tion, & strongly Recommended to me as a gentleman of great Meritt, & who I should wish might meet the Countenance of you & all our good Friends with you. I therefore Beg to Introduce him to your particular Notice, & pray your Civilities to him, & earnestly Desire you will In troduce him to the Notice 8c Acquaintance of the Circle of my Friends. I Beg your particular Attention to my Recommenda [tio] n of this Gentleman, which I shall Esteem a favour. I hope in a fortnight to pay my Respects in Person. I am Gentn. Your very hum Servt. John Hancock RC (NN).
