662 July 24, 1775 John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada 24th July 1775 Your letter of the 10th inst. with the enclosed papers being duly received was laid before Congress and immediately taken into con sideration. In answer to the several Matters therein contained I am to inform you that the Congress appointed a committee to enquire what quanti ty of light Sail Cloth, Sheeting and Oznabrigs could be obtained in this town for the purpose of making Tents, and in this business the Committee are now closely employed. 1 It is agreed that tow cloth will be most proper for hunting shirts, & of this the Congress are informed a sufficient quantity may be ob tained in Rhode island and Connecticut. It is expected you will give orders for purchasing there the quantity necessary. Agreeable to your recommendation they have appointed Joseph Trumbull Esqr. Commissary-general of stores and provisions for the army of the United Colonies. The appointment of a Quarter Master General, Commissary of Musters, and a Commissary of Artillery is left to you, the Congress not being sufficiently acquainted with persons properly qualified for these offices. They have ordered a company of Matrosses to be raised in this city and sent forward. General Thomas, they have appointed First Brigadier General in the room of Mr Pomroy who did not act under the commission sent him and have ordered General Thomas’s commission to bear date the same day Genl Pomroy’s did. They have empowered you, if you think fit, to appoint three Bri gade Majors of such persons as you chuse to honor with that com mand and to commission them accordingly. They have appointed a committee to consider and report on the establishing an Hospital and appointing a director. As soon as they have brought in their report and the Congress have come to any resolution on that subject you will be made ac quainted with it. Letters are sent with a recommendation to the colonies of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island and Connecticut to compleat the deficiencies in the regiments belonging to their respec tive colonies, which you shall retain in the Continental Army. In clos’d are the Letters to N Hampshire & Rhode Island, wch. please to order forwarded by express immediately. And it is earnestly recommended to Rhode Island to send forward to you three hundred and sixty men lately voted by their General As sembly, and to Connecticut to send forward fourteen hundred men
