July 24, 1775 663 lately voted by the General Assembly o£ that colony. Upon intelligence that Mr. Johnson is endeavouring to instigate the Indians to acts of hostility the Congress have impowered General Schuyler to dispose of and employ all the troops in the New York de partment in such manner as he may think best for the protection and defence of these colonies, the tribes of Indians in friendship and ami ty with us and most effectually to promote the general interest, still pursuing, if in his power, the former orders of this Congress and sub ject to the future orders of the Commander in chief. 2 As the Congress are not fully acquainted with the number of the enemy you have to oppose and the extent of your operations, they re posing confidence in your prudence have resolved, that “such a body of troops be kept in the Massachusetts-Bay as you shall think neces sary provided they do not exceed twenty two thousand.” 3 In a letter from Lord Dartmouth to Govr Martin dated Whitehall May 3d. 1775 after recommending him to embody such of the men in four counties (which Govr Martin had represented as favourable to the views of administration) as are able to bear arms is the follow ing Paragraph. “I confess to you, Sir, that this appears to me to be a matter of such importance that I cannot too earnestly recommend it to your attention, and that no time may be lost, in case of absolute Necessity I have received his Majesty’s commands to write to Genl. Gage to apprize him of this favourable circumstance and to instruct him that he do, upon application to you, send some able and discreet officer to you in order to concert means of carrying so essential a service into effect and if necessary to lead the people forth against any rebellious attempts to disturb the public peace.” 4 Whither the five Vessells, you mention to have sailed from Boston on the 11th instant, are gone on this service time must manifest. The Bills ordered to be struck by Congress are in great forward ness; as soon as a sufficient quantity worth sending is compleated, it will be sent to you. I have the pleasure to inform you that the Congress have received a letter from the Provincial Convention of Georgia dated 8th instant, 5 informing that all the parrishes in that colony except two, which it is supposed do not contain a score of freeholders inhabitants, met by their delegates in convention on the 4th inst.; that those parrishes that upon former occasions seemed reluctant have manifested a laudable zeal on this occasion; that several Gentlemen in Savanna, that have hitherto been neuter or declared against America, now speak of the proceedings of parliament as illegal and oppresive; that the conven tion had applied to the Governor to appoint a day of fasting and prayer with which request the Governor informed them he would comply; that they have chosen five delegates to represent their colony in this Congress viz, John Houston, Archd. Bullock Esqr., The Revd.
