664 July 24, 1775 Doctor Zubly, Lyman Hall and Noble Wimberly Jones Esqrs; and lastly that they have resolved strictly to adhere to the Continental Association and are heartily disposed zealously to enter into every Measure that the Congress may deem necessary for the safety of America. Mr Thomas & Mr. Trumbull’s Commissions are Inclos’d in un seal’d Letters to them. When any thing Occurrs Respectg your Department you shall be made Acquaintd. I have the honor to be with great Esteem, Sir Your most Obedt. hum Servt John Hancock President [P.S.] Have enclos’d for Mr. Trist, if any oppor [tunit]y please to send to Boston. I have Sent five Bundles of Commissions, 284 the rest shall follow. RC (DLC) . 'The matters discussed in this and the next nine paragraphs were acted upon by Congress on July 19. JCC, 2:190-92. 2 See JCC, 2:194. 3 On this resolution, adopted by Congress July 21, see JCC, 2:202. 4 For the text of Dartmouth’s letter to Governor Martin, see N. C. Colonial Records, 9:1240-42. “For the text of this letter, see JCC, 2:193n. Benjamin Harrison to George Washington [July 24, 1775] 24th. Nothing New in Congress or from Virginia to day. I should therefore have Closed without saying more had not an Application been made to me to introduce to you Capt. Thomas Price of a Company of Rifle Men from Maryland. He comes with a high Char acter from thence, &: is look’d upon as most firmly Attached to the Cause of America. He has a large Family which he has left merely to forward the Service. The Deputies from that Country are gone home. I have seen a Letter in his favour to Mr Tilghman highly commend ing him, & as he could not thro’ that Channell get a Recommendation I have been prevail’d upon to introduce him, which Liberty I hope you will Excuse. I am My Dear Sir Your most Affecte. Servt. B. Harrison P.S. We Expect to leave this place next Sunday. I shall yet beg the favour of a Line now & then, &: shall leave orders with Bradford to forward them, in Return you shall be most minutely informed of ev ery thing going forward in Virginia. Tr (PHi) . A continuation of Harrison to Washington, July 21, and July 23, 1775.
