674 July 28, 1775 gress from giving him a dismission as they much resented his with several other officers leaving the Army after the Generalls Arrival and at so Critical a season. We are all exhausted sitting so long at this place and being so long confined togeather that we feel pretty much as a Number of passengers confined togeather on board ship in a long Voyage. We shall take a short recess by Next Week. What we have done good or bad will soon be published. My respects to the Genlls 8c Regards to all Enquiring Friends remembring Coll Reed Mr Mifflin 8cc And am Sr Sincerely Yours Eliph Dyer [PS] Since I wrote the above I have had the pleasure of seeing Coll. Thomson who is Coll, of the Regiment of Riflers and by whom I send this letter. He is a Gentn. who bares a Very good Martial Car- racter has been Tried in Service and is much depended upon by this Province. Your Civilitys to him will be very Acceptable should be glad you would Introduce him to Genii Putnam 8c others proper 8: sincerely wish that Gentn. of his Station as well as others from these Provinces may return with so good an Opinion of the New England ers as may fix their reputation 8c Cement a more firm Union with these Colonies. The same for Leiut. Coll. Hand who Accompanies him. Yours E D RC (Ct) . 1 That is, James Warren. “Silas Deane also wrote to Joseph about this same time, informing him of his brother’s appointment and introducing him to a Mr. Bird, the bearer. Deane to Joseph Trumbull, July 28? 1775, Ct. Roger Sherman to William Williams Dear Sir Philadelphia July 28th. 1775 I this Day received Your favour of the 22d Instant. We Should have wrote to You oftener but had not much Intelligence of impor tance to communicate but what was by order of Congress Transmit ted to the his Honr. the Govr. which we Supposed you would be ac quainted with, besides we have had but little leisure being obliged to attend Congress from 8 or 9 in the morning to 4 or 5 in afternoon. We have lately received Six Tuns of Powder which is Sent to the army near Boston, also 5000 lb Sent to General Schuyler this Day. A Ship arrived here from Bristol Yesterday which Sailed the 4th of June 8c brings intelligence that the account of the Battle of Lexington Sent by the province with the affidavits had arrived in London, that it occasioned the Stocks to fall one 8c half per cent, that Lord North was greatly Astonished 8cc but there had not been time to know what effect it would have on the people.
