July 28, 1775 675 The Congress have recommended the making Salt Petre 8c gun Powder and offer half a Dollar per pound for all the Salt Petre that Shall be made in any of the United Colonies within fifteen months from this Day. I am Sorry for the Uneasiness occasioned by the ap pointment of General officers; 1 General Wooster is dissatisfied as well as General Spencer. I feared that would be the Case. We had just heard of the Engagement at Noddles Island before we proceeded to the appointment of General officers, which engagement being con ducted by General Putnam occasioned him to be highly esteemed for his Bravery by the Congress. The officers were chosen by Ballot— but previous to giving in the votes I informed the Congress of the Choice and Arrangement made by our Gen. Assembly and that I supposed if the Same order Should be preserved by the Congress it would best Satisfy the officers 8c the Colony. Colo. Dyer was not then in the Room but came in immediately afterward and made the same representation without knowing what I had said, but the votes turned as you have heard. There was likewise an uneasiness in the Massa chusetts Bay on a like occasion which General Washington being made acquainted with before he delivered the Commissions repre sented it to the Congress and it was rectified, but he had delivered General Putnam his Commission before he heard of the uneasiness, so that I dont know how the difficulty can be remedied at present. I hope Generals Wooster 8c Spencer will consider the Grand Cause we are Engaged in of So much Importance as not to let it suffer any dis advantage on account of this disagreable circumstance which was not occasioned by any disregard in the Congress toward those Gentlemen but for want of a more mature consideration of the ill consequences that might attend Such a transposition. The Congress has Set much longer than I at first expected it would, but I believe not longer than was needful. I hope it will ad journ the beginning of next week 8c have a recess of a few weeks. It is very tedious Sitting here this hot Season: I have herewith Enclosed a Declaration and an address to the people of England. The whole pro ceedings will be published within a few Days—which will make a considerable volume. The reason why I dont Sign more of the Letters is not because our Lodgings are very far distant but because express es are often Sent off in haste, and Colo Dyer and Mr Dean being to gether have the Custody of the Papers. I sometimes Sign with them, sometimes they Sign my name, others they Sign only with their own names it not being very material and in Congress hours it is needful Some Should attend while others are writing. I have not been absent at any time while the Congress has been sitting. Mr. Jonathan Trum bull Junr. was this Day appointed Paymaster for the New York De partment. The pay is 50 Dollars per month. I am Sir Your Sincere Friend 8c humble Servant Roger Sherman 579-852 0 - 77 - 45 Vol.l
