July 29, 1775 677 with confidence, for I have seen both; and I have seen a set of very large powder works, and another of saltpetre. I hope. Sir, we shall never see a total stagnation of commerce for any length of time. Necessity will force open our ports; trade, if I mistake not, will be more free than usual. Your friend, Dr. Franklin, to whom I read your letter, and who desires his kind compliments to you, has been employed in directing the construction of row-galleys for this city. The committee of safety for this province have ordered twenty of them to be built; some of them are finished. I have seen one of them; it has twelve oars on each side. They rowed up the river the first time, four miles in an hour, against a tide which ran down four miles an hour. The Congress have recommended to the colonies to make provision for the defence of their navigation in their harbors, rivers, and on their sea-coasts. Of a floating battery I have no idea —am glad you are contriving one. You tell me, Sir, that General Lee complained that “he did not find things as the Massachusetts delegates had represented them.” What General Lee could mean by this, Sir, I know not. What partic ular he found different from the representation, I do not know; nor do I know which delegate from the Massachusetts he received a mis taken representation from. I think he should have been particular, that he might not have run the risk of doing an injury. If General Lee should do injustice to two of the Massachusetts delegates, he would commit ingratitude at the same time; for to two of them he certainly owes his promotion in the American army, how great a hazard soev er they ran in agreeing to it. I know him very thoroughly, I think, and that he will do great service in our army at the beginning of things, by forming it to order, skill, and discipline. But we shall soon have officers enough. MS not found; reprinted from Adams, Works (Adams) , 9:360-62. J On July 28 Congress recommended to the colonies several measures designed to encourage the production and collection of saltpetre, sulphur, and gunpowder. JCC, 2:218-19. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada July 29 1775 I have receivd your favor of the 20th Instant by Express. I ob serve that our new House of Representatives is organizd and am ex ceedingly pleasd with the Choice they have made of their Speaker. I find that two of the former Boston Members are left out—C is kickd upStairs! 1 &c &c. I have not Leisure at present to write to you particularly. I expect soon to see you. I must inform you that you
