678 July 29, 1775 were yesterday unanimously chosen Paymaster General with the pay of 100 Dollars per month, if I do not misremember. The Bearer hereof is a Maryland young Gentleman by the Name of Lux. His Father is a Gentleman of Character as a Mercht in Balti more who is a friend to American Liberty and I am informd has shown Benevolence to the poor of my native Town. I am therefore bound in Gratitude to desire your Notice of him so far as to recom mend him to some of our military officers. He proposes to joyn the Army. Excuse this unconnected Epistle and be assurd that I am Your unfeigned freind Sami Adams [P.S.] Dr Church is Director General & chief Physician of the Hos pital with the Power of appointing Surgeons &c. I wish my Son coud get Employmt in the Army. He has lost his Freind under whose Care he was educated! Mr Lux has several Companions with him young gentlemen who are in quest of Laurels. RC (MHi). 1 Thomas Cushing, a moderate in Massachusetts politics, was elected to the Council by the House of Representatives in 1775. Subsequently, his frequently conservative stance in Congress led to his omission from the Massachusetts delega tion to Congress for 1776. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 11:389-91. New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety Gentlemen Philadelphia 29 July 1775 We have reed, your Letters of the 18th & 22d Inst; 1 and tho sensi ble of the Inconveniences arising from a Scarcity of Arms, are much at a Loss respecting the best Measures for a Supply. As we have good Reason to believe that an Application to the Congress to recommend a Loan of the Jersey Arms would not suc ceed, we have agreed not to make it. No Colony has as yet given the Congress any trouble on that Head, and we are unwilling that New York should be the first. We advise however that accurate Accounts of Disbursements for arms be kept, so that should any Charges of that Kind be made against the Continent our Colony may be pre pared to support their Claim. Besides it is easy to foresee that New Jersey under the present Circumstances of public Affairs, would very reluctantly part with their Arms, &: be displeased with any Recom mendation for that Purpose. Permit us to recommend to your most serious attention the Ne cessity of laying your Hands on all the Powder that is, or may be im-
