680 July 29, 1775 you. ... By the last accounts from that Province we hear that Georgia has acceded to the Association & Delegates are appointed to join us in Congress. This must give Joy to all well wishers to the Cause; for when Administration shall find their favourite Colonies New York & Georgia can no longer afford them the pleasing Hopes of Dissention, they will then be forced to adopt Wisdom & Peace, as their only Refuge; Hostilities & Intrigues being equally unsuccessful. Yesterday we determined to adjourn . . . until the fifth of September; 2 This was contrary to the unanimous Sense of our Colo ny; but without Vanity I may say that Numbers in this Instance pre vailed over Wisdom. “Give me Leave to introduce . . . Mr. Tilghman, 3 the very wor thy Bearer of this Letter. ... If you hold a Conference in August in all probability I shall pay my Respects to you in Person, as I shall be a Wanderer upon the Eastern part of the Continent until the Con gress shall again meet. . . . May you be victorious in all your Con flicts.” MS not found; abstracted from extract in The Month at Goodspeed's 36 (February 1965) : 142M3. 1 Congress appointed Walter Livingston commissary for stores and provisions in the New York department July 17. JCC, 2:186. ’Rutledge must mean that Congress informally decided on July 28 to adjourn as soon as possible until September 5, because a resolution to this effect was not actually approved until July 29. JCC, 2:224. ’Tench Tilghman (1744-86), a Philadelphia merchant, was secretary and treas urer to the Indian Commissioners for the Northern Department, 1775-76, and aide-de-camp to General Washington, 1776-83. DAB. Samuel Ward to Samuel Ward, Jr. Philadelphia 29th July 1775. Is pleased with his son’s letters of July 8 and 16. “The Sense you have of the divine Protection & Goodness will I hope ever induce you to live in such a Manner as not to forfeit it. I have often thought that the Hand of God might be clearly seen in the planting of these Colonies, in preserving them in a most remarkable Manner & that the same divine Goodness still at tends them, the Union of the Colonies, the Bravery &: Order of the Troops, the extremely small Losses sustained considering the vast Dangers to which we have been exposed, the good Dispositions of the Canadians and Indians, the most plentiful Crops of Grain ever known, the safe Arrival of large Quantities of Powder and the Dis covery of all the necessary materials amongst Us for supplying our selves for the future with innumerable other Blessings fully prove. May every Heart be filled with affection &: Gratitude, may We all de-
