684 July 30, 1775 P.S. Mr William Barrell will deliver you this Letter. He was kind enough to tell me he would go out of his way rather than not oblige me in carrying it. He boards with us at Mrs Yards, and is a reputable Merchant in this City. Richard Checkley is his Apprentice. You know his Sister Mrs Eliot. I know you will treat him with due re spect. RC (NN). 1 Samuel Adams probably left Philadelphia on August 2 and arrived in Water town on August 11. Boston Gazette, and Country Journal, August 14, 1775. His accounts show the payment of £.66.12.0 for 111 days of service at this session of Congress. DLC. “Adams had been elected as a representative from Boston, and on July 21 the House of Representatives selected him as a member of the Council. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 3:271, 275. Samuel Adams to William Palfrey Dear Sir, Philadelphia, July [30] 1775. 1 My friend Colo. Hancock gave me the pleasure of perusing your letter to him. I am exceedingly pleased with the notice which General Lee has taken of you in appointing you one of his Aids de Camp. 2 I shall only observe that your own Merit has rendered needless my ut most endeavours to serve you, which however shall never be wanting upon any future occasion. The bearer of this letter is Mr. William Barrell a reputable mer chant of this city. He is a native of Boston, perhaps not unknown to you. He is warmly engaged in the cause of his Country, and is an Of ficer in one of the City Regiments lately raised. After saying thus much I dare say you will pay him proper respect, in doing which you will oblige your Friend Sami. Adams Tr (MH). 1 Since Adams indicated that William Barrell was the bearer of both this letter and the preceding one to his wife, the date July 30 had been assigned to this letter to Palfrey. “William Palfrey (1741-80), Boston merchant and business manager for John Hancock, was appointed aide-de-camp to Gen. Charles Lee in July 1775 and subsequently served as paymaster general of the army, 1776-80. Appleton’s Cyclopae dia of American Biography. Joseph Hewes and Robert Smith to a London Mercantile Firm Gentlemen, Edington [Edenton], July 31. [1775]
