August 27, 1775 709 on a large Road and one which the people, passing to & from both Armies use. He has- therefore all the intelligence of every thing he can wish to know, & ’twill the advantage of sending it to the Enemy that he would have in a Town. One thought farther, he is a very communicative man, 8c in the Secrets of Administration, were he near some Judicious person many important discoveries might be made, of this I am Confident from the Opportunities I had with him at Philadelphia. I will Trouble your honor no farther on this disa greeable Subject, as I am Confident you will give such Orders as will do me Justice, as well as the Public in whose behalf, and by whose express Orders I gave the Assurances I did. Your Sons were well on Tuesday last. I am 8cc S Deane FC (CtHi) . 1 Deane was a member of the congressional committee that originally examined Skene and supervised his parole. JCC, 2:82, 86. 3 For Trumbull’s explanation in response to Deane’s assertion that the desires of Congress had not been complied with, see his August 30 letter to Deane, NYHS Collections 23 (1890): 546-50. See also JCC, 2:108-9, 126-27; and John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., July 6, 1775. Benjamin Franklin to Silas Deane Dear Sir, Philada Augt. 27. 1775. I am much oblig’d by your Favour of the 13th Inst. Mr [William] Goddard, Riding Surveyor to the Cen. Post Office is gone to the Southward, for Settling the new Post-Offices all along to Georgia. Mr [Richard] Bache, the Comptroller, is to set out next Week North ward on the same Business, who will take with him Directions from me to establish all the Officers in your Government that you recom mend and the new Offices and Stages that appear likely to support themselves. I am glad to hear that the Gunsmith’s Business goes on so well with you. We make great Progress on it here; but the Price is high. If we would acquire that Manufacture in Perfection, it must be by as suring the Workmen of a large Demand, for a Number of Years, and at a Price certain. Then they will be encourag’d to bring up Appren tices for different Parts of the Work, and also to make Tools and Machines for facilitating 8c expediting it, such as Fuages for Lock Plates Sc Cocks Mills for grinding and boring the Barrels, 8cc. Those bred to Parts of the Work only, will dispatch more and do it better. And then I am confident Arms may be made as good and as cheap in America as in any Part of the World. I intend therefore to propose to our Assembly to give that Encouragement here, by engaging to take 2000 Muskets per Annum for Ten Years, at a good Price, which I
