Gunning Bedford, Jr., to Nicholas Van Dyke Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 12th. 1783. I take the earliest opportunity of communicating the intelligence brought by Capt Barney. He brings us the preliminaries as settled be tween us & Britain, & which are to make a part of the definitive treaty when finished between the belligerent powers. 1 They acknowledge the Independance of the States—have bounded Nova Scotia & Canada agreeable to the treaty of Paris, give us a line from thence through all the northern lakes from thence to the head waters of the Massacipi, then down the waters of that river to Florida & then to the sea coast including all the isles within twenty leagues of our coast. This gives us a vast extent of country back not included within any of our States, names to us the navagation of those great lakes 8c of the fine river Massacipi, which we are to enjoy in common with them. We are to have equal priviledges in the fisheries, to take & cure fish on the uninhabited isles as usual, but if on the lands in a territory of either, the permission of the inhabitants to be obtained. All old Debts con tracted before the war on either side to be paid. And our commission ers agee that Congress shall recommend to the different States to re peal their confiscatory laws, & to permit the offenders to come in & purchase of the holders by paying the real value of the consideration, they had paid for the property—that the property of British residents should also be restored, & that all others have the priviledge of staying one year to settle their affairs—that no more confiscations shall be made 8c no further prosecutions for offences hitherto committed. The whole of this you will observe is but a recommendation, which the wisdom of each State will not hesitate to reject, 8c only consented to, to gratify in appearance the foolish pride of Britain. The prelimi naries give satisfaction, & come up to the full wish of every American. We had rather the mention of refugees had been omitted, but in fact it amounts to nothing as it stands, & is a mere finess to avoid doing any thing for them. Barney has a letter from Franklin as late as the 6th Jany. He left France the 17th Jany & his dispatches were made up the 1st 8c 14th Decemr. the Preliminaries signed the 30th Novr. 2 In Franklins letter to Barney he sais the negotiations seem further from a conclusion than they expected. The Count De Vergennes in his letter to Franklin in closing dispatches to the French Minister here, sais that he still rather hopes that the Definitive treaty will be compleated. 3 3
