March 12, 1783 5 thought right to let you know the Truth. The great bleeding had a great & good Effect, and she is now quite recovered, tho’ she looks thin & pale. She sends her Love. Hanny has got her at last with a Mis tress of the best Character that takes but 12 Scholers. Not a word of News. You have the Papers enclosed. I am not very doubtful about a Peace. I think the Delay is a favourable Symptom and can scarcely expect official Intelligence till between the 15th & 20th of this Month. Hanny joins me in Love to Mrs. P. & all Friends. Am Dr Sir, Yours Affectly. EB March 12th 1783. Since writing the above, Capt. Barney has arrived. He left L’Orient the 17th Janry. His last despatches is dated 25th Deer. 1782. He brings the preliminaries of Peace signed the 30th Novr. They consist of 9 Articles 1st. acknowledgmt of Independence. 2d. Bound aries of united States, full & clear. 3d free right to Fisheries. 4th Credi tors on either side to recover all just Debts. 5th. Congress to recom mend to the States the restoration of all Confiscated Property, belonging to british Subjects who have not taken arms—and to all others on their paying the bona fide purchase Money that the Pos- sessers gave for them. 6th No future prosecutions for Crimes and all now on foot to be discontinued. 7th a Firm Peace & Hostilities to cease in plundering—all american Artillery to be left—all archives, Deeds, Papers &c to be restored. 8th Navigation of Mississippi to be free to both Nations. 9th Any Place conquered after the date of Arti cles to be restored. As I have sketched this off as I was reading, do not suffer a Copy to be taken, but you may communicate the Contents generally. These Articles are not to be in Force untill a Treaty between France & GB. is perfected, which is in great forwardness. Capt. Barney Came with a british Passport. Am in the greatest Haste & Hurry, Yours &c RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 12th March 1783, 3 O’Clock. P.M. The arrival of Captain Barney this morning creates so great a field for the circulation of reports agreeably to the complexion of the Re porter, that I have thought it not amiss to inform your Excellency of the substance of his dispatches, tho’ you may perhaps receive it from other hands. He left L’Orient the 17th of January last. His latest dispatches are dated the 25th December. The Preliminaries between America and
