6 March 12, 1783 Great Britain were signed the 30th of November and contain nine articles, in substance as follows. 1 1st. The acknowledgment of our Independence and the relinquish ment of all rights, Claims &c. over us. 2dly. The Boundaries of the United States very Consonant to our Claim. 3d. A full and free right to the fisheries, with liberty to take fish on the several shores &c. 4. Creditors, on either side, to recover their just debts. 5. Congress to recommend the restoration of confiscated estates to British subjects, who have not born arms, and all others to be suf fered to endeavour to prevail on the States to restore their property on their paying the bona fide purchase money paid by the Possessor. This indulgence to last 12 Months. 6th. No future prosecution for any past crimes and all present pros ecutions to cease. 7. A firm peace, and hostilities to cease, on signing the Treaty. No plundering on the evacuation of Posts. All American Artillery to be left. All Prisoners of War to be set at liberty. All Archives, Deeds and papers taken by British Officers to be returned. 8. Navigation of Missisippi to be left open for both Nations. 9. Any place conquered by either party after the Articles shall arrive in America to be returned. As I have sketched out the substance of these Articles from hearing them read amidst a variety of papers and while attending to the duty of my office in Congress, your Excellency will see the impropriety of de pending greatly on their accuracy or suffering them to be made public. The preliminaries are to take place on the Treaty between France and Great Britain being perfected, the principal articles of which were agreed on, and the negotiation was going on when Capt. Barney left France, but not finished; and the Minister writes, that he rather thinks they will be soon finished. I have the honor to inclose a letter from the Marquis de la Fayette, 2 which came under cover to me, requesting it to be sent by an Officer. Your Excellency will be so kind as to excuse the extreme haste of this Scrawl, as the time obliges me to the greatest hurry. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect and esteem, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. & very humb. Servt, Elias Boudinot P.S. Capt. Barney came under the protection of a British Passport. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Boudinot. 1 Washington also received “the substance of these Articles” this date from the secre tary for foreign affairs, Robert R. Livingston, who in addition sent him the complete texts of articles 5 and 6 of the preliminary treaty. Washington Papers, DLC. 2 Lafayette’s December 4, 1782, letter to Washington is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 5:72-74.
