March 12, 1783 11 I have the Honor to be. Your most Hum servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Please to inform Collo. Bartlett, that I have reed, his Letter of the 14th Ultimo. Want of time prevents my Answering it this Post. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear Sir Philada. 12th March 1783. A few hours since, Congress reed, from our Commissioners the arti cles agreed upon between them & the Minister appointed by the King of G.B. to negotiate a peace. They are to take place as soon as the genl. Peace is concluded between England & France; the articles in ful or in part will be communicated to the several states as soon as Congress has determined the propriety of making them or any part of them public at this time; & as the post may sit out before this gits to the office I can only add that they are considered here, so far as I can form judgment, in a favorable light, and I think I can say that they are as much in our favor as I ever expected. I have the Honr. to be with the greatest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient servant. P.S. From the appearance of the whole intelligence I find it uncertain when a Peace will take place. FC (PPIn: Americana Collection). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Arthur Lee to James Warren Dear Sir, In Congress. Deer. [i.e. March] 12th. 1783 1 I enclose you three Newspapers containing the Essays of Lucius, Va lerius, & Bellisarius which deserve your perusal & being reprinted in your Papers. 2 Barney is arrivd with Dispatches. He left L Orient the 17 Jany. He keeps strict silence & none of his Crew are allowd to come on shore. The Letters were all carried to Mr. Morris, from whom Con gress have not yet receivd any intelligence. When his speculations are settled we shall be favord with the news. All these restraints upon pub lic information & the engrossing all the Letters, are by his own order, Congress knowing nothing of it; & I verily believe for the sole purpose of speculation. I was persuaded when his friends proposd the purchas ing Barney’s vessel & dispatching her under his direction, that it was
