12 March 12, 1783 for the same purpose. Thro’ the whole war he has made his public trust subservient to his private Speculation, & has thereby become as rich as a Jew. You wish to have some observations on the manners of this place. They are as little worthy of panygeric as an awkward imitation of the French can make them. Broke suddenly loose from the simplicity of quaker manners, dress & fashon & affecting the vanity, & nonsense, if nothing worse, of french parade, you may conceive they are more fit subjects of redicule than of admiration. Mr. Morris, Mr. Bingham, Mr. Ross & others, who have made large fortunes during this war, employ their wealth in a manner not very consistent with that un-ostentatious virtue which ought to animate an Infant republic. Extravagance, osten tation & dissipation distinguish what are calld the Ladies of the first rank. There are however exceptions, these being prudent, amiable & worthy persons of both Sexes. But the generality seem to be intoxi cated with a sudden change of manners & unexpected elevation. I had not time to finish this Letter, being occupyed by attending to the Dispatches. The preliminary Articles are well enough, but being conditiond on the conclusion of Peace with France, which seems to me not probable this year; they still remain dependent on the issue of this campaign at least, which if very successful on the part of the Enemy may make them retract these conditions, & if ever so prosper ous on the part of our Ally, we cannot hope for any thing better, as the latter seems more averse to our participation in the Fishery, & our possessing the western Country, than the English themselves are. We are placd in this uncomfortable situation, by the ambition of our Ally, And by the obligation our Alliance is supposd to have imposd upon us not to make Peace without their concurrence. My latest Letters give the most sanguine expectations of speedy peace. 3 But from reasoning on all circumstances it appears to me at least very doubtful. I wish most sincerely that peace may take place, & give us an opportunity of arranging our governments & Finances & of paying our Debts. I receivd the two Joe’s you was so good as to send me for interest; & am very much obligd to you for your attention to my Affairs. When peace will permit the travelling in the extreme parts of your State, & I am freed from Congress, I shall revisit you, & take a view of the Coun try where the grant to me may be located. In the mean time I trust to your goodness & care to have the location made as advantageously as possible. 4 Mr. J. Adams is so persuaded, that Peace is settled that he has desird leave to resign & return home. 5 I am not of opinion that we can spare him yet. He & Mr. Jay have acted a spirited, independant, & therefore, in my judgment, a most laudable part; & will be necessary in Europe to counteract the treachery of old Franklin. I had drawn up a vote of thanks to Mr. Adams for the extraordinary Services he has renderd us
