14 March 12, 1783 licited his vote and to avoid the appearance of division over the appointment, Adams and Henry Laurens also signed Temple’s commission. See Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:38—39, 102—3; and Richard B. Morris, The Peacemakers: The Great Powers and American Independence (New York: Harper & Row, 1965), pp. 355-56. 8 That is, Thomas Lee Shippen, son of Dr. William Shippen, Jr., and Lee’s sister, Alice. Eleazer McComb to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia 12th March 1783. I sit down to mention the news of the day, which you will be pleased to communicate to our friends in Dover. Captain Barney arrived this day from France, under the protection of a passport signed by the British King, and brought the Preliminary Articles of Peace, signed by the Commissioners on the part of Great Britain and the United States of America, on the 30th November last. The Preamble sets forth that they are not to take effect ’till a Peace with France is concluded, and that they are to be included in, and make part of, the definitive Treaty. By the 1st Article, the King of G. Britain, acknowledges the United States of America to be free, independant and sovereign States, and for himself, his heirs and Successors, forever relinquishes all right and title to them. By the 2d the boundaries are fixed, to begin at the North West Angle of Nova Scotia, and run to the North West head of Connecticut River—then down the River to the 45th degree of North Latitude—then thro’ the Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron, Superiour, long Lake, and Lake of the Woods; and from the North West end of the lat ter a due West Course to the river Mississipi—then down that river to the 31st degree of North Latitude—then to the river Apalachicola— from thence to the Flint river—from thence to St. Mary’s river, and down that river to the Atlantic Ocean. The line between New England and Nova Scotia to begin at the mouth of the river St. Croix, which empties into the Bay of Fundy, and run from thence to the first place of beginning, including all Islands within 20 leagues of the Land, ex cept such as were formerly known to belong to Nova Scotia. By the 3d we have a right to fish on the Banks of Newfoundland, and to cure the fish on certain uninhabited islands. By the 4th Creditors in either Country are to be allowed to recover their just debts contracted be fore the year 1775. By the 5th Congress is to recommend to the Sev eral States to restore confiscated property to real British subjects, and also to Persons resident within the British lines who have not borne Arms against the United States; and to suffer others of different de scriptions to go into any of the States and remain 12 Months in order to endeavour to recover their property—to revise their Laws for Con fiscation, so that the estates which have been sold may be restored to
