16 March 12, 1783 The terms granted to America appeared to Congs, on the whole ex tremely liberal. It was observed by several however that the stipulation obliging Congs, to recommend to the States a restitution of confis cated property, altho it could scarcely be understood that the States would comply, had the appearance of sacrificing the dignity of Congs, to the pride of the British King. 2 The separate & secret manner in which our Ministers had proceded with respect to France & the confidential manner with respect to the British Ministers affected different members of Congs, very differ ently. Many of the most judicious members thought they had all been in some measure ensnared by the dexterity of the British Minister, 3 and particularly disapproved of the conduct of Mr. Jay in submitting to the Enemy his jealousy of the French without even the knowledge of Dr. Franklin, and of the unguarded manner in which he, Mr. A. & Dr. F. had given in writing sentiments unfriendly to our Ally, and serv ing as weapons for the insidious policy of the Enemy. The separate article was most offensive, being considered as ob tained by G. B. not for the sake of the territory ceded to her, but as a means of disuniting the U. S. & France, as inconsistent with the spirit of the Alliance, and a dishonorable departure from the candor, recti tude & plain dealing professed by Congs. 4 The dilemma in wch Congs, were placed was sorely felt. If they sd communicate to the F. Minister 5 every thing, they exposed their own Ministers, destroyed all confidence in them on the part of France, & might engage them in dangerous factions agst. Congs, which was the more to be appre hended, as the terms obtained by their management were popular in their nature. If Congs, sd. conceal everything, & the F. Court sd. ei ther from the Enemy or otherwise come to the knowledge of it all confidence wd. be at an end between the allies; the enemy might be encouraged by it to make fresh experiments, & the public safety as well as the national honor be endangered. Upon the whole it was thought & observed by many that our Ministers particularly Mr. Jay, in stead of making allowances for & affording facilities to France in her delicate situation between Spain & the U. S. had joined with the enemy in taking advantage of it to increase her perplexity; & that they had made the safety of their Country depend on the sincerity of Ld. Shelburne, who was suspected by all the world besides, and even by most of themselves. See Mr. L ’s letter Dcr. 24. 6 The displeasure of the French Court at the neglect of our Ministers to maintain a confidential intercourse & particularly to communicate the preliminary articles before they were signed, was not only signi fied to the Secty. of F. A. but to sundry members by the Chevr. de la Luzerne. To the former he shewed a letter from Ct. de Vergennes di recting him to remonstrate to Congs, agst. the conduct of the Amr. Ministers; which a subsequent letter countermanded alledging that
