March 12, 1783 19 lantic, that the fisheries shall be exercised nearly as formerly; that Congress shall earnestly recommend to the States a restitution of Con fiscated property a permission to the refugees to come & remain for 1 year within the States to solicit restitution, and that in the most obnox ious cases restitution may be demanded of purchasers on reimbursing them the price of the property, that debts contracted prior to 1775 shall be mutually paid according to sterling value; that all prisoners shall be mutually set at liberty; troops withdrawn & all records & pa pers restored; that the navigation of the Mississippi from the source to the mouth shall be mutually free for the subjects of G. B. & the Citi zens of America, a proposition comprehending the W. I. was offered on the subject of Commerce, but not admitted on the part of G. B. In the course of the negociation G. B. contended for not only the lim its marked out in the Quebec Act, but all ungranted soil, for a contrac tion of the fisheries, and for absolute stipulations in favr. of the loyalists. The despatches of the 14th speak also of the principal preliminaries between F. & G. B. being settled; but of little progress being made in those between Hold. & Spn. & the latter; & of none between Spn. & U.S. A letter of the 24 Deer, from Dr. Franklin varies the scene some what. It says that uncertainties were arising from the unsettled state of minds in England & incloses a letter from Ct. de Vergennes observing that difficulties had arisen from the very facilities yielded on the part of France; & concluding with these words as well as I can recollect, “Je ne desespere pas, J’espire plutot; mais tout est incertain.” Franklin’s correspondence on this occasion denotes a vigor of intel lect, which is astonishing at his age, a letter to the British Minister on the case of the Tories in particular is remarkable for strength of rea soning, of sentiment & of expression. 2 He concludes his letter to Congs, with observing that he is now entering on his 78th year, 50 of which have been spent in the public Service; and that having lived to see like Simeon of old the salvation of his Country, his prayer is that he may be permitted to retire from public life. Mr. Adams has also transmitted a resignation. The arrival of this intelligence will probably procure from Congs, some final decision with respect to Mr. Jefferson. Having given you all the facts which hurry wd. admit I leave you to your own conclusion as to the object of them. Farewell. J Ma[dison Jr.] RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:339-41. I For the dispatches brought by Capt. Joshua Barney, see the preceding entry, note 1. 2 That is, Benjamin Franklin’s letter of November 26, 1782, to Richard Oswald.
