20 March 12, 1783 Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir Philadelphia 12th March 1783. Captain Barney arrived here this Morning from France—he left L’Orient the 17th ofjany. under a british passport and brought dis patches for Congress, they have not all been yet read—the latest we can at present inform you of are to the 25th of December at Paris. Considering the long delay of intelligence, and the anxiety which that and the importance of the Object under Negociation must have occasioned, we have concluded to forward what intelligence we are possessed of at present & therefore inclose a Copy of the provisional Articles signed by our Ministers and Mr. Oswald on the 30th Novem ber. We hope you will be able to make them out, time is not permitted to make a fair Copy. By the information under the 25th of Deer, there were some appre hensions, that matters between the other powers wou’d not be very soon concluded, but the hopes & Expectations on the contrary were most prevalent. France had made some progress in her Negociations, Spain & Holland but little. The King of Sweeden had given powers to his Minister at Versailles to enter on a Treaty of Amity & Commerce with the American Minister. We have been under the necessity of agreeing to give £8.0.0 to the Express to Baltimore. We have the honor to be Your Excellencys & Honors Most respect ful & Obt Servts, Tho. S. Lee Dani Carroll Wm. Hemsley RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Hemsley and signed by Carroll, Lee, and Hemsley. En dorsed by William Smith: “The Express who will have the honor to deliver this to yr. Exy will call on you for payment. I have made no agreement with him. Balto. Mr. 15. 1783.” Richard Peters to John Dickinson Dr Sir 12th March 1783 At the Instance of the other Delegates I have made a hasty Copy of the Provisional Treaty between Gt Britain & the U States which I have not time to compare. You will be pleased to communicate it for the Sat isfaction of the Hble Council & House of Assembly ’till a more com plete Communication can be made. The Letters accompanying the Treaty are too long to copy at this Time. It appears that Holland have done little—Spain not far advanced & the affairs of France not con-
