March 13, 1783 25 2 Actually the 12th. s See Collins to Greene, January 5, 1783. Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear sir. Philadelphia 13th March 1783. I did myself the honor of addressing your Excellency yesterday (in haste) a few moments before the post set out, but as Mr. Brown is about returning to Boston, & may arrive before the post, I take the lib erty to inclose a newspaper which contains the most important part of the European intelligence, received here yesterday by captain Barney; by the articles you will perceive our right to fish secure & also the boundaries to the eastern parts of our State. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Arthur Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, In Congress Mar. 13th. 1783 In a Letter I recievd yesterday, dated Paris, Deer. 14 from a Gentle man exceedingly well acquainted with the Politics of St. James’s, 1 is this passage—“The acknowlegment of American Independency gives a right to Neutral Powers to trade directly to America. This will be a great advantage shoud the War continue, of which I think there is lit tle probability. Europe seems to be in a disposition for Peace; & it is absolutely necessary for England.” This necessity of England, seems pretty clear from the King’s Speech; & Mr. Jay writes that on the return of Count de Vergennes Secretary from London, whither Mr. Jay supposes he was sent to prevent the british Court from treating with us as an independent Nation, the Count told him he believd Ld. Shelburne was sincere in his desire of Peace. 2 If he is so, I am sure it must be from the neces sity mentiond by my Correspondent, as I am persuaded that is not his inclination. So far the prospect is fair for Peace; but Count de Vergennes writes that tho’ he has hopes, he has fears 3 —the preliminary Articles with France were not signed the 6th of Jany. Count d’Estaing & M. de la Fayette had saild for Cadiz apparently upon an expedition which woud hardly have taken place, if the Cabinet of France had not been determind upon a continuance of the war.
