March 13, 1783 27 Novia Scotia and Riming from thence to the 45th Degree of north Latitude to Conecticut River thence down Said river and alonge the midle of the Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron, Superior, long lake and the Lake in the woods and from northwest End of Said Lake a west Course to the Massisipie and it said river to the River Apicahia from thenc to head of St marys River and Done the same to the Atalantic from thenc to the mouth of a River falling into the Bay of fundie and thence to the place of Begining. The full freedom of fishing on the Banks of Newfundland and of Dreing thire fish on the Shores of Sable Island and other places not inhabited by the English, a free trade to all the English ports in Eroupe. The franc and English had agreed on preliminarys before Capt Baney Saild but were not Signed. The English to Leve all the amirican Cannon that is now in the forts in thire Poss [ess] ion and not Desstroy any property when they [leave] those place[s] that they now Possess. The Du[t]ch have Done nothing as yet, the Spaniards have made pro- possalls the[y] want to have Gibaralter and offer west floridia and some Islands in the westindias in Exchange. We have No Doubt of peace but it may be some time before it is finaly Concluded. I am Sir with perfict Regard your Verry Humb Sert, John Montgomery RC (PHi: Irvine Papers). • Dr. John Rose (Gustavus, baron de Rosenthal) of the Third Pennsylvania Regiment, and one of the few Russians to serve as an officer of the Continental Army, had served as General Irvine’s aide-de-camp during the latter’s command at Fort Pitt and as Col. William Crawford’s aide during the ill-fated Ohio expedition of the spring of 1782. See John Rose, “Journal of a Volunteer Expedition to Sandusky, from May 24 to June 13, 1782,” PMHB 18 (1894): 129-57, 293-328; and Heitman, Historical Register, p. 351. Richard Peters to Horatio Gates Dear Sir Philada. March 13. 1783 We have recieved official Accounts of the Signature of the Prelimi naries of Peace between Gt Britain & the United States to take Effect if the Affairs between France & Great Britain are adjusted. These Pre liminaries contain everything we ought to wish. The Boundaries are eligible as we have the complete Navigation of the Lakes & that of the Missisippi our Lines running thro’ those Waters. Our Fisheries are se cured in the most ample Manner. There are some Articles which were inserted to serve british Pride wherein it is agreed that Congress shall earnestly recommend to the States the Revision of their Confiscation Laws & endeavour to bring about a Restoration of Property to those Loyalists who have not taken up Arms. But the States will be left of Course to their own Way of thinking as to Compliance with this Rec-
