32 March 17, 1783 mote suggestions of the unreasonableness of our propositions, and perswading that Court of the possibility of obtaining concessions on the part of America, far more advantagious than what was insisted upon. The british Ministry taking the advantage of these blunders of the Court of Versailles, instead of indeavouring to reduce the preten sions of America, candidly (in Appearance) communicated this con duct of France to our Commissioners and thereby created a Jealousy in their Minds agt that Court, as insidious & inimical. This perhaps might have too great an Effect, in alarming & souring the Minds of our Commissioners and it would not be unnatural to suppose, that it was greater than necessity dictated, when we consider the interest the Court of London had in exaggerating on the Occasion. The whole is sued in our Commissioners signing the provisional Articles of Peace (a copy of which I shall endeavour to send herewith) 2 without the Knowledge of France, on the 30th Novr. and not till the next Day and after they were sent to the Court of London, were they anounced to Count De Vergennes, when he discovered great surprize, and covered his Chagrin by expressing his astonishment at our having obtained such advantagous Terms. Our public dispatches give us no Acct, of the Issue of the negotiations on the part of other belligerent Powers, except that some disputes had arose that delayed so desirable an Ob ject, and suggesting doubts of the real desire of Great Brittain to do more then what was concluded with us, hoping to draw off the united States from the War, by putting them in a Situation, which would leave them nothing to contend for. But by a very confidential Letter from good, tho’ private Hands of a later date it appears that the ne gotiations with France & Spain had gone on; and on this Authority I may almost venture to say, that I believe the Terms are fully digested, if not signed, between them. Spain insisted on the Cession of Gibral tar and offered to France, the Spanish half of Hispaniola, if she would obtain Gibraltar for her at the Expence of France. Count De Ver gennes thereupon offered to England the Island of Gaudalope in Ex change for that Rock, which was refused. She then added Dominica & the neutrality of St. Vincents. As this was the Ultimatum of France, it is supposed that it would be complied with. Holland demands three things—a restoration of her captured Pos sessions—Compensation for Damages unjustly sustained contrary to the Laws of Nations—and free navigation. A Commissioner is gone to Holland to settle these points, which are too unimportant to cause much difficulty, so that I hope a general Peace is not far off. But I do not mean by this, that there is so much certainty, as that any thing should be discontinued that is necessary for our defence. To be well prepared for War, is the surest way to make peace. A great deal has been suggested about the insidious Character of the English Minister, and that there is great reason to fear, as some think, by granting
