34 March 17, 1783 The Situation of our Army, as stated in your Excellency’s Letter of last Wednesday, 3 by no means lessens our Anxiety & Mortification, es pecially as we have been for five or Six weeks, past, most faithfully & honestly engaged in laying a Foundation for their future Security, as well as making provision for a present Supply. More is not in our power, and I fondly hope that in this last hour, they will not dishonor themselves, and forfeit that Glory which they have supported with so much dignity to themselves & advantage to their Country. Violent Measures will certinly tend to prevent the Success of those Endeav ours, Congress have been so laboriousty exerting, for their emolu ment & Security—and however they may think that they are the only sufferers, yet they may be assured, that our Shoulders are not free from the Burden. There is not a Man among them, who would envy us our Station, was he to be one week in Congress. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan take this Opportunity of presenting their most affectionate respects and kindest Love & good Wishes to Mrs. Washington, whom they remember with the highest Sentiments of Esteem, in which may I be permitted most cordially to Join those of mine. I have the honor to be with the most profound respect, Your Excel lency’s Most Obedt. & afft. Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot P.S. By some Conversation I have Since had with the Minister of France, I find that the King his Master is greatly offended with our - ' Commissioners, for signing the provisional Treaty without a confiden tial communication with his Ministers. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 12-15, 1783. 2 A copy of the provisional articles is filed under the date November 30, 1782, in the Washington Papers, DLC. 3 See James Madison’s Notes, March 17, note 1. William Floyd to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, March 17th, 1783. Since writing to your Excellency by the last post in which I men tioned the Arrival of our packet from France with Dispatches, 1 and amongst other things the Articles to be Inserted in the Treaty for a General Peace (when that shall take place) as agreed to, and signed on the part of our Commissions and those of Great Britain, and as they are now made public I do my Self the pleasure to Inclose them to you. As to the Boundaries Contained in the Articles, they are not Quite so well in the Northwest part of the United States as we could wish, but I believe, and it is generally thought here, that they are as Exten-
