36 March 17, 1783 Since writing the above, Colo. Hamilton has Concluded to Joyn me in Enclosing the Articles, and as we have But one printed Copy have Inclosed it in our Joynt letter. With the Greatest Respect I am, Sir, your most obedt. and humble Servt, Wm. Floyd. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:86-89. 1 See Floyd to Clinton, March 12, 1783. 2 For the interest of Floyd and Ezra L’Hommedieu in the purchase of William Liv ingston’s claims to lands on the upper Mohawk River, see L’Hommedieu to Clinton, September 16, 1783. Alexander Hamilton to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, March 17. 1783 I am duely honored with Your Excellency’s letter of the 4th and 12th instant. 1 It is much to be regretted though not to be wondered at, that steps of so inflammatory a tendency have been taken in the army. Your Excellency has in my opinion acted wisely. The best way is ever not to attempt to stem a torrent but to divert it. I am happy to find You coincide in opinion with me on the conduct proper to be observed by yourself. I am persuaded more and more it is that which is most consistent with your own (honor) reputation and the public safety. Our affairs wear a most serious aspect as well foreign as domestic. Before this gets to hand Your Excellency will probably have seen the provisional articles between Great Britain and these states. It might at first appearance be concluded that these will be the prelude to a gen eral peace; but there are strong reasons to doubt the truth of such a conclusion. Obstacles may arise from different quarters, from the de mands of Spain & Holl [and], from the hope in France of greater ac quisitions in the East, and perhaps still more probab[ly] from the in sincerity and duplicity of Lord Shelburn [e], whose politics founded in the peculiarity of his situa[tion], as well as in the character of the man will be suspected of insidiousness. I am really appr[ehensive] if peace does not take place, that the negotiation [s] will tend to sow distrusts among the allies and wea[ken] the force of the common league. We have I fear men [among] us and men in trust who have a hankering afte[r] British connection. We have others whose confidence in France savours of credulity. The intrigues of the former and the incau tiousness of the latter may be both, though in different degrees, inju rious to the American interests; and make it difficult for prudent men to steer a proper course. There are delicate circumstances with re spect to the late foreign transactions which I am not at liberty to re-
