March 18, 1783 45 ditures as fast as possible, ascertain our Debt to the line of Justice, & pay as fast as we can, but we cannot pay the Principal, then the call is Secure our Interest and then a person can transferr his Debt at any time if he wants it for or near the Value; this will satisfy the Army & other Creditors; but the Question is how shall that be done by direct taxes on each state, justly proportioned? The People have been so har- rassed with taxes & Collectors, that they feel galled, fretted, Impatient, & many really unable to pay; must not a new mode then be adopted, which will leave every one pretty much at his Choice whether to pay or not? & when he does pay, not to know or feel it? By this is clearly seen is meant dutys or Impost on foreign trade or Importation to be paid by the Mercht in the first Instance, & then it must take its Chance. This is the mode projected, & for a limited time, & sacredly to be appropriated to the payment of Interest, & the Excess towards sinking the principal, the Debts made out & certifyd to each State, & a strict account yearly rendered of the Expenditure, Superfluous Arti cles or such as are mostly consumed by the rich & Wealthy to bear the greatest burthen. This is said in general to be the only plan which ap pears feasable; Congress have had this subject long under Considera tion to be ripened for the Approbation of the several States, for it is they alone can give it its sanction & seal. I only give the Sketch. I now Inclose the articles referrd to agreed upon between the Commission ers of Britain & America, with Mr Morrises state of expenditures to 1782 and the remainder are making out to be soon transmitted. Am with the greatest esteem & respect your Excellys. most obedt Hie Sert, Elipht Dyer RC (CtHi: Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., Papers). 1 See Dyer to Trumbull, March 12. 2 John Smith of Worthington, Conn., formerly of New York, had been granted per mission on January 22, 1783, by the Connecticut General Assembly to send his son Jus tus into New York to bring out “Negroes, Money etc.” Connecticut General Assembly Journal, DLC (ESR). 3 Dyer had voted on March 10 against the proposed commutation of half pay for life to full pay for five years, while his colleague Oliver Wolcott had voted for it. See JCC, 24:178-79. 4 Dyer appears to have added the names of these states as an afterthought. 3 See Dyer to William Williams, March 2, 1783, note 4. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Philadelphia 18th March 1783. I should have done myself the honor of writing to your Excellency before now if my Colleague had not promised to communicate the in telligence received by Captain Barney, 1 and to forward a Letter ad-
