46 March 18, 1783 dressed to you from the minister of France. I have so little to mention at this time that I am scarcely justifiable in troubling you with a Letter. The report of the day is that General Carleton has informed the loyal ists that unless they take the advantage of the fleet soon to sail from New York he cannot promise them another opportunity. That, in con sequence of this, near 500 families were preparing to depart: but per haps the preliminary Articles, which allows them a residence of 12 Months, may prevent it at present. We are also informed that 60 Transports, with troops, have fallen down to the hook, suppos’d for the West Indies. A Minister from Holland is expected in a short time. There are great tumults in that Republic. A plot has been discovered for cutting off the Patriots, and there is a strong party for divesting the Prince Stadholder of all his authority. Since my coming to Town I have been informed that the remains of Colo. Haslet are interred in the Market Street Burying Ground, 2 within about 18 feet of the Wall of the Church. The spot is yet known, but will soon be forgotten unless it is perpetuated by something monumental. Would it not be proper for our State to pay respect to his Memory by ordering a Tomb Stone, at least, with a proper inscription, to be placed over his Grave? This would not Cost, in my opinion, more than ten pounds. If they chose to be more profuse, a monument might be placed against the wall of the Church, as plain, or as much orna mented as they pleased to order. Their Delegates in Congress would not think it a trouble to have their orders carried into execution. With respectful Compliments to your Lady and Family, I have the honor to be, Sir, your Excellency’s most obt & humble Servt E. McComb. RC (DeHi: McComb Papers). 1 See Gunning Bedford to Van Dyke, March 12, 1783. 2 Col. John Haslet had been killed during the battle of Princeton, NJ., in January 1777. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday March 18 [1783], On the report of the Committee to whom the 3 paragraphs of the report on revenues 1 (see March 6). had been recommitted, the said paragraphs were expunged so as to admit the following amendment which took place without opposition, viz “Resolved that it be recommended &c &c (see 1st K) Upon all rum ofjamaica proof per Gallon Upon all other spirituous liquors Dolr. 4/90 3/90
