48 March 18, 1783 vorable impressions which might be made on the Ct. of F. as to the sincerity of Congress or their Ministers. 2. That the sd. Ministers be informed of this communication, and instructed to agree that the limit for W. F. proposed in the separate ar ticle be allowed to whatever power the said Colony may be confirmed by a Treaty of peace. 3. That it be declared to be the sense of Congress that the prelimi nary articles between U. S. & G. B. are not to take effect untill peace shall be actually signed between the Kings of F. & G. B. 5 Ordered that tomorrow be assigned for the consideration of the said letter. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:350-52. 1 These three paragraphs were a revision of the first and third paragraphs of the com mittee’s original report with the addition of a recommendation for a bounty on certain exports. The second paragraph of that report, recommending a 5% duty on prizes and prize goods, had been deleted by the committee based on a March 8 response from Robert Morris. See Madison’s Notes, March 6-7 and March 11, 1783, note 2. 2 At this point in the manuscript Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: ‘The other exception as to Cards & wire for making them &c. was struck out unanimously on the motion of Mr. Clarke; being considered no longer necessary & contrary to the general policy of encouraging necessary manufactures among our selves.” Abraham Clark’s motion was not entered in the journals, but in Thomas FitzSi- mon’s draft of these three paragraphs, the provision exempting “Wool & Cotton Cards & Wire for Making them” from duty was struck out. See PCC, item 26, fols. 423-24. 3 For the defeat of James Wilson’s motion, see JCC, 24:191-92. 4 Robert R. Livingston’s March 18 letter, which was referred the following day to a committee of five chaired by James Wilson, is in PCC, item 79, 3:41-54; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:313-16. For the committee’s report, see Madison’s Notes, March 22, 1783, note 4. 5 At this point in the manuscript Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following observation: “This was meant to guard agst. a construction that they were to take effect when peace sd. be agreed on by those powers, & the latter be ready to sign, altho the former sd. be restrained untill the other parties sd. be ready for signing.” James Madison to Edmund Randolph My Dear Sir Philada. March 18. 1783 I reed, yesterday your favor of the 7 inst. together with that of the 22 Ulto. which ought to have been brought by the preceding mail. 1 I re gret much the uncertainty which attends your going into the Legisla ture. Is it possible that the difference between the amt. of your salary from the State and of the profits from which your office excludes you can form an essential article in your pecuniary plans? I am far from being singular in supposing that the business on the opposite side would be a much more productive fund.
