50 March 18, 1783 of the opposition for them portends violent altercations. The liberality of the articles to the U.S. will probably be the ground of Attack from the old Ministry; the omission of Commerce that of Fox’s division. Farewell. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:355-56. 1 See ibid., pp. 279-80, 318-19. 2 See Madison to Randolph, March 12, 1783. 3 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 4 For the letters from the ministers abroad, see Madison’s Notes, March 12-15, 1783, note 1. 5 For Washington’s March 12 letter, see Madison’s Notes, March 17, note 1. 6 That is, Thomas Jefferson. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir, Philadelphia March 18th 1783. We have the honor to forward the enclosed copy of the Provisional Treaty which we received this Morning from the Secretary of foreign af fairs. A rough copy hastily made was sent by express last Wednesday Evening as far as Baltimore Town, from whence some Gendeman of that place was requested to give it a Speedy conveyance to your Excellency. 1 We are truly sorry to inform you that the discontents of our Army have risen to a very alarming height, in so much as to threaten fatal consequences. Anonymous addresses calculated to inflame the pas sions had been industriously & clandestinely circulated through the Army, calling a meeting at an appointed place on the 13th Inst, to de vise a mode of redressing their own wrongs, while it was yet in their power, declaring at the same time that no reliance was to be placed in the justice of Congress, from whom their unavailing applications had met with only inattention or contempt. The General interposed his authority as soon as he was apprised of this dangerous proceeding, and in general orders reprobated the measure, though in very gentle terms, he proposed, instead of the 13th that the meeting should be on the 15th & then by deputies from the General, field Commissioned & Staff Officers to state their grievances. 2 This proposition was acceeded to. The General hoped the step he had taken to dissipate a Cloud so hastily collected & which threatened to burst on a sudden, would meet the approbation of Congress, he has the best disposition to sup port their Authority with his whole influence & power; at the same time he relies on Congress taking the most efficacious & speedy mea sures their circumstances will admit of to comply with the reasonable claims of the Army.
