March 18, 1783 51 The Bill for £300 which the Intendent gave Mr. Carroll reason to expect by the Post of last week, is not received, and when it is, will not be adequate to our claims or necessities. 3 The extravagance of living in this place & the great scarcity of Money said to be felt by all, by us in particular, reduce us to the distressing alternative, of leaving Con gress or subsisting, at the expence of a Class of People who cannot af ford to give a credit. We have the Honor to be, with great respect & esteem, your Excel lency Mo. Hble servts. Tho. S. Lee Dani. Carroll Wm. Hemsley RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Carroll, and Hemsley. 1 See Maryland Delegates to Paca, March 12, 1783. 2 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 17, note 1. 3 For the Maryland Council’s March 31 directive to the intendant, Daniel of St. Thomasjenifer, in response to this appeal, see Md. Archives, 48:393. John Francis Mercer to William Fitzhugh and George Weedon Dear Gentlemen: March 18th, 1783. I do not recollect writing you since the arrival of Capt. Barney. It was deemed proper by Congress to make the subtance of the commu nications received by him as public as possible, as well to give equal ground to retard the acts of speculation, as to satisfy the minds of the people at large, anxiously looking for peace. A letter of Mr. Laurens, of a date posterior to those of his colleagues, 1 conveys strong suspi cions of the designs of the Court of London. He speaks of very late ad vices received thence, which impressed him with an idea that their plans was to disunite the belligerent powers—and he says that the spirit of the nation is high for the prosecution of the war against France. This minister’s own reflections are wise, and merit great atten tion. He recommends ardently to adhere religiously to our engage ments with France, whose views he could discover no reason to sus pect, and cautions against trusting to our new and half made friends. The newspapers enclosed, which contain parliamentary debates, 2 discover an indecision even in the Cabinet Council of the King of Great Britain, as to the effect of the preliminaries signed with A., con sequently we have to apprehend that the L[ord] Shelburne has not disclosed all his ultimate views, even to them—for if he had, they could not have disagreed. He who cannot trust his own friends must not expect that his enemies will trust him.
