56 March 19, 1783 Samuel Holten to John Avery Dear Sir Philadelphia 19th March 1783. I wrote you the 11th ultimo, 1 but have not been favor’d with any from you. Congress have appointed a committee to prepare a recommenda tion to the several States to sit apart a day of fasting, humiliation & prayer, but I don’t expect it will be finished so as to go by this post; Therefore I thought it adviseable to give you this notice. 2 I suppose before this comes to hand, you will be well acquainted with the late intelligence from Europe; we are still in expectation of more important news from that quarter. I must beg leave to refer you to the inclosed for the intelligence of the day. I am, with perfect respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. ’ Not found. 2 A committee consisting of Holten, Eliphalet Dyer, and Arthur Lee was appointed for this purpose on March 18, but Congress subsequently decided against such a commem oration and eventually discharged the committee on April 28. See PCC, item 186, fol. 89; and Holten to John Hancock, April 30, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday March 19 [1783]. A letter was read from the Superintendt. of Finance inclosing letters from Doer. Franklin accompd. with extracts from the Ct. de Ver gennes relative to money-affairs, the Supt. thereupon declaring roundly that our credit was at an end & that no further pecuniary aids were to be expected from Europe. 1 Mr. Rutlidge denied these asser tions & expressed some indignation at them. Mr. Bland said that as the Supt. was of this opinion it would be absurd for him to be Minister of Finance and moved that the come, on his motion for arranging the department might be instructed to report without loss of time. 2 This motion was negatived as censuring the Come, but it was understood to be the sense of Congs, that they sd. report. The order of the day viz the letter from the Secretary of F. A. was taken up. 3 Mr. Wolcot conceived it unnecessary to waste time on the subject as he presumed Congs, would never so far censure the Ministers who had obtained such terms for this Country, as to disavow their conduct. Mr. Clarke was decided agst. communicating the separate article, 4 which wd. be sacrificing meritorious Ministers, & wd. rather injure
