March 19, 1783 57 than relieve our national honour. He admitted that the separate arti cle put an advantage into the hands of the Enemy, but did not on the whole deem it of any very great consequence. He thought Congress ought to go no farther than to inform the Ministers that they were sorry for the necessity which had led them into the part they had taken, & to leave them to get rid of the embarrassmt. as to the sepa rate article in such way as they sd. judge best. This expedient would save Congress & spare our Ministers who might have been governed by reasons not known to Congress. Mr. Mercer said that not meaning to give offence any where, he should speak his sentiments freely. He gave it as his clear & decided opinion that the Ministers had insulted Congress by sending them as sertions without proof as reasons for violating their instructions, & throwing themselves into the confidence of G. B. He observed that France in order to make herself equal to the Enemy had been obliged to call for aid & had drawn Spain agst. her interest into the war: that it was not improbable that She had entered into some specific engage ments for that purpose; that hence might be deduced the perplexity of her situation, of which advantage had been taken by G. B.—an ad vantage in which our Ministers had concurred for sowing jealousies between F. & U. S. & of which further advantage wd. be taken to alien ate the minds of the people of this Country from their ally by present ing him as the obstacle to peace. The British Court he said havg gained this point may easily frustrate the negociation & renew the war agst. divided enemies. He approved of the conduct of the Count de Vergennes in promoting a treaty under the 1st Commission to Oswald as preferring the substance to the shadow & proceeding from a desire of peace. The conduct of our Ministers throughout, particularly in giv ing in writing every thing called for by British Ministers expressive of distrust of France was a mixture of follies which had no example, was a tragedy to America & a comedy to all the world beside. He felt inex pressible indignation at their meanly stooping as it were to lick the dust from the feet of a nation whose hands were still died with the blood of their fellow-citizens. He reprobated the chicane & low cun ning wch. marked the journals transmitted to congress, 5 and con trasted them with the honesty & good faith which became all nations & particularly an infant republic. They proved that America had at once all the follies of youth and all the vices of old age: thinks it wd. [be] necessary to recall our Ministers: fears that France may be al ready acquainted with all the transactions of our Ministers, even with the separate article, & may be only awaiting the reception given to it by Congs, to see how far her hopes of cutting off the right arm of G. B. by supporting our revolution may have been well founded: and in case of our basely disappointing her, may league with our Enemy for our destruction and for a division of the spoils. He was aware of the
