68 March 21, 1783 be delayed or hazarded by a connection with the other parts of the Report. On the other side it was contended that it was the duty of Congs, to provide a system adequate to the public exigences; & that such a system wd. be more likely to be adopted by the States than any partial or detached provision, as it would comprize objects agreeable as well as disagreeable to each of the States, and as all of them wd feel a greater readiness to make mutual concessions & to disregard local considerations in proportion to the magnitude of the object held out to them. The motion was disagreed to: N. J. being in favor of it & several other States divided. 4 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:374. 1 SeeJCC, 24:171-72. 2 Madison later inserted “Mr. Bland.” 3 That is, those sections of the report that had been approved on March 18, for which see JCC, 24:188-91; and Madison’s Notes, March 18, 1783. 4 According to the journals, Abraham Clark’s motion was supported by only two states, six states opposed, three divided, and two unrepresented. Theodorick Bland to Baron Steuben March 22d. 1783 Mr. Bland presents his most respectfull Compts. to the Baron de Stuben, takes the liberty to commit to his care a letter to his Excelly. the Comr. in Chief, 1 wishes the Baron an agreeable Journey to Camp—and cordially felicitates him on the happy termination of a late meeting of the army—whose resolutions on that occasion must do them the highest honor to the latest posterity—as well as on the Pas sage this day of the vote for the commutation in Congress. Mr. Bland Ardently wishes, and thinks, he hopes not without foundation, that these resolutions will be followed, by measures which will give solidity to the establishments voted—& produce complete satisfaction to a Meritorious, a Brave & a Patriotic Army. RC (WHi: Gratz Collection). In Bland’s hand, though not signed. 1 Bland actually wrote two letters to Washington this date, for which see the following entries. Theodorick Bland to George Washington Sr Philadelphia March 22d 1783 That I have not availd myself of the liberty of writing to you, which your Excellency’s request, when you left this place would have Autho-
