72 March 22, 1783 dissipation of the cloud which seemed to have been gathering af forded great pleasure on the whole to Congress; but it was observable that the part which the Genl, had found it necessary & thought it his duty to take, would give birth to events much more serious if they sd. not be obvious by the establishment of such funds as the Genl, as well as the army had declared to be necessary. The report of the come, on Mr. Dyer’s motion in favor of a commuta tion for the half pay was agreed to. The preamble was objected to, but admitted at the entreaty of Mr. Dyer who supposed the considerations recited in it wd. tend to reconcile the State of Cont. to the measure. 2 The order passed for granting 35 licences for vessels belonging to Nantucket to secure the whaling vessels agst. the penalty for double papers. This order was in consequence of a deputation to Congs, rep resenting the exposed situation of that island, the importance of the Whale fishery to the U. S. the danger of its being usurped by other na tions & the concurrenc of the Enemy in neutralizing such a number of Vessels as wd. carry the fishery in an extent necessary for the sup port of the inhabitants. 3 The Come, to whom was referred the letter from the Secy, of F. A. with the foreign despatches &c reported 4 1. That our Ministers be thanked for their zeal & services in negoci- ating the preliminary articles. 2. that they be instructed to make a communication of the separate article to the Court of France in such way as would best get over the concealment. 3. that the Secy, of F. A. inform them that it is the wish of Congress that the preliminary articles had been communicated to the Court of France before they had been executed. Mr. Dyer said he was opposed to the whole report; that he fully ap proved of every step taken by our Ministers as well towards G. B. as to wards France, that the separate article did not concern the interests of France & therefore could not involve the good faith of the U. S. Mr. Lee agreed fully with Mr. Dyer, said that a special report of facts ought to have [been] made as necessary for enabling Congs, to form a just opinion of the Conduct of the Ministers, and moved that the re port might be recommitted. Mr. Wolcot 2ded the motion which was evidently made for the sole purpose of delay. It was opposed by Mr. Clarke, Mr. Wilson & Mr. Ghorum the 1st & last of whom had how ever no objection to postponing; by Mr. Mercer who repeated his ab horrence of the confidence shewn by our Ministers to those of G. B. 5 said that A. 6 was about to realize the case of those kicked down the ladder by wch. they had been elevated, & of the viper which was ready to destroy the family of the man in whose bosom it had been restored to life, observed that it was unwise to prefer G. B. to Spain as our Neig[h] hours in W. Florida.
