March 24, 1783 75 patrick), 26:228-32; and JCC, 24:204n, 210n. For his overall handling of this crisis, see Freeman, Washington, 5:430-37. See also the preceding entry, note 1. 3 See ibid., note 2. William Floyd to George Clinton My Dear Sir Philadelphia March 23d. 1783 I have only time to write one line as the Express is now at the Door. We have this moment Certain intelligence that a General peace is Concluded, Hostilities to Cease in America the 20th March—the packet is in the River a few Miles below. We have not Received the Dis patches nor any particulars—But only in General that peace is Con cluded and this Vessel Was Sent to bring the Dispatches that will Give us the particulars. I hope in two or three Days to give your Excellency the particulars. From Sir your Excellencys most obedt and very humble Servt, Wm Floyd 1 RC (PHC: Charles Roberts Autograph Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency, George Clinton Esqr., Governor of the State of New York. A General peace is Concluded. To be forwarded by Express.” Endorsed: “Pray forward this, Col Pickering, D Humphrys.” 1 Floyd also wrote a brief letter on March 24 to Udny Hay concerning the New York delegates’ finances: ‘The Draft which you made on Mr. Parker in favour of Colo. Hamil ton and my self for two hundred pounds York Currency is paid, I took one hundred and forty of it and Colo. Hamilton Sixty, as at this time my Necessity is Greater than his.” Signers Collection, MA. Gunning Bedford, Jr., to George Read Dear Sir, Philadelphia, March 24th, 1783. I do myself the honor to inclose you a hand-bill, containing the most agreeable intelligence of the signature of the general preliminaries of peace. 1 We have to thank the Marquis Lafayette for the early information, who obtained leave that the sloop of war called the Triumph should touch here, though but the secondary purpose of her voyage. I most sincerely congratulate you upon the happy prospect of pub lic liberty and independence. The Superintendent of Marine is directed to call in all our cruisers, 2 and despatches are sent to New York, informing Sir Guy and Digby of the news, that they may take the necessary steps on their side. I am, with great regard, your obedient and very humble servant, Gunning Bedford, Junior.
