75 March 24, 1783 MS not found; reprinted from William T. Read, Life and Correspondence of George Read (Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott & Co., 1870), pp. 380-81. 1 For this March 24 David C. Claypoole broadside announcing “The principal articles of the preliminaries of peace, of the 20th of January, 1783” between Great Britain and France, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 18,234. 2 Based on a February 5 letter from the marquis de Lafayette “announcing a general peace" and “a copy of orders given by the Count D’Estaing... for the purpose of putting a stop to all hostilities by sea,” Congress this day directed the agent of marine, Robert Morris, “to recall all armed vessels cruzing under commissions from the United States of America.” Morris quickly completed this assignment sending a circular to the states on March 25 enclosing a copy of the recall order of Congress. See fCC, 24:210-11; Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 5:84-88; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:632. Gunning Bedford, Jr., to Nicholas Van Dyke Dear Sir Philadelphia March 24th 83. I do myself the honor to inclose you extracts from some dispatches received last night, by a Sloop of war from Cadiz, under cover from the Marquis Le Fayatt informing us of the signature of the Prelimi nary Articles of a general peace among the belligerent powers. France keeps Tobago & Senegal, she restores to Britain Granada, St. Vincents, Dominique, St. Christophers. Britain restores to Holland St. Eustatius, Demarari, Esquebo, Barbrie. Britain restores to France Gorie, St. Lucia, St. Pier & Miquilon. The fisheries between Great Britain & France on the coast of New Foundland to continue as in the treaty of 1763, except from the coast of the Cape of Bonivisto to Cape St.John which is ceded to Britain. France to be established in the East Indies as well at Bengal as on the eastern & western coast of Prisque isle, as regulated by the treaty of 63. The article of proceeding treaties con cerning the demolition of Dunkirk shall be suppressed. Spain to re tain Minorca & West Florida. Great Britain to cede East Florida to Spain. An arrangement to be made between Spain & Britain about cutting of wood at Compeachy in the bay of Hondoras. Britain to re tain the Dutch settlement of Negapatmam in the East Indies. Great Britain to restore Trinquemala to the Dutch if not retaken. Britain ac knowledges the sovereignty & Independence of the thirteen United States. The limits of the United States to be as agreed upon as agreed on by the provisional articles, except that they shall not extend fur ther down the river Mississippi than the 32d degree of North latitude from whence a line to be drawn to the head of the river St. Mary & along the middle of that river to its mouth. The captn. of the sloop of war has written orders of Count D Estang to inform all cruisers of the signing the preliminaries & to call in all the French frigates & all other vessels belonging to his majesty.
