March 24, 1783 79 french Sloop of War—from Cadix, sent by the Count D’Estaing at the request of the Marquis de La fayette, announcing that the Genl, treaty had been Signed on the 21st of Jany. last—the terms of which from Memory are these: America independt., Fishery, navigation of Mis- sisippi, France St. Lucie restored—Tobago—Gorie—all her posses sions in the East Indies restored, that may have been taken—Establish ments on the coast of Bengal, and the Peninsula in the East Indies. Great Britain St. Christophers, St. Vincent, Grenada restored in the W.I., Senegal on the African coast. Holland St. Eustatia, Birbice, Es- squebo in the W.l. and all her Settlements in the E.I. except one. Spain Minorca and the two Floridas to the 32d degree of N. Latitude. Hostilities have ceased and the Vessel which brought over the dis patches, has brought orders from Ct. d’Estaing in the name and under the Authority of the King his Master, to inform all Vessels he shall meet thereof. Similar orders are this day Issued from Congress to the American Cruizers. These are Jarring and discordant Nations once more bought to shake hands—may we continue my dear Sister to have peace in our time, and to enjoy the fruits of our Virtue & perservance in happy domestic tranquility. You told me you were turnd Politician. You see I have given you a dash of them. You tell Patsy you shall go to Bermuda in the fall. I will not dissuade you from it—because I know not the Urgency of yr. motive—but at any rate I hope you will not go untill I see you. I wrote this day to Tucker a short letter which goes by express containing the abstract of the above glori ous news. I think it wd. be prudent and now is the time for you to de mand the return of that Part of the Tobo. (which has not been drawn for) which was to be restored in one month after demanded. It will certainly rise to a price much superior which was my original motive for not selling it hastily and for having that Clause Inserted—if my name is necessary to making it—you have my permission to make use of it. Tell Tucker that I do not wish him to sell my Place near Bland ford until he hears further from me. I have no objection to Farmin dell being rented. God bless you and believe me to be yr. Sincerely af fectionate & loving Brother, Theok Bland [PS.] Tell Tucker a Bill of Exchange will do as well as Morrises Note for the money he wd. remit to me and this may be obtaind from J Short at any time, we are always in want at this cursed Place. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 The dating of this letter is clear from Bland’s references to the arrival ‘This day” of a “french Sloop of War... announcing that the Genl, treaty had been signed” and that he had written “this day to Tucker,” for which see the following entry. 2 Probably a reference to an Irish fiddle tune, rendered phonetically, which we have not been able to identify.
