March 24, 1783 83 of peace between all the belligerent powers have been concluded. I congratulate your Excellency on this happy conclusion of your labours. It now only remains to make solid establishments within to perpetuate our union to prevent our being a ball in the hands of European powers bandied against each other at their pleasure—in fine to make our independence truly a blessing. This it is to be lamented will be an arduous work; for to borrow a figure from me chanics, the centrifugal is much stronger than the centripetal force in these states—the seeds of disunion much more numerous than those of union. I will add that Your Excellency’s exertions are as essential to accom plish this end as they have been to establish independence. I will upon a future occasion open myself upon this Subject. Your conduct in the affair of the officers is highly pleasing here. The measures of the army are such as I could have wished them and will add new lustre to their character as wel[l] as strengthen the hands of Congress. I am with great truth & respect. Yr. Excellency’s Most Obed ser. A Hamilton RC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday March 24th. [1783] On the day preceding intelligence arrived which was this day laid before Congs, that the preliminaries for a general peace had been signed on the 20th of Jany. This intelligence was brought by a French cutter from Cadiz despatched by Ct. d’Estaing to notify the event to all vessels at sea, and engaged by the zeal of the Marquis de la Fayette to convey it to Congress. This confirmation of peace produced the greater joy, as the preceding delay, the cautions of Mr. Lauren’s Letter of the 24 of Deer. 1 and the general suspicions of Ld. Shelburne’s sin cerity had rendered an immediate & general peace extremely prob lematical in the minds of many. A letter was reed, from Genl. Carlton thro’ Genl. Washington in closing a copy of the preliminary articles between G. B. & the U.S. with the separate article annexed. 2 Mr. Carroll after taking notice of the embarrassment under which Congs, were placed by the injunction of secrecy as to the separate article after it had probably been disclosed in Europe & it now appeared was known at N. York, called the attention of Congs, again to that subject.
