84 March 24, 1783 Mr. Wolcot still contended that it would be premature to take any step relative to it, untill further communications should be reed, from our Ministers. Mr. Gilman being of the same opinion, moved that the business be postponed. Mr. Lee 2ded it. Mr. Wilson conceived it indispensably necessary that something should be done; that Congs, deceived themselves if they supposed that the separate art. was a secret at N. York after it had been announced to them from Sr. Guy Carlton. He professed a high respect for the character of the Ministers which had received fresh honor from the remarkable steadiness and great abilities displayed in the negocia- tions, but that their conduct with respect to the separate article could not be justified. He did not consider it as any violation of the instruc tion ofjune 15th, 1781. The Ct. de Vergennes having happily released them from the obligation of it; But he considered it with the signing of the preliminaries secretly as a violation of the spirit of the Treaty of Alliance as well as of the unanimous professions to the Court of France, unanimous instructions to our Ministers, & unanimous decla rations to the world, that nothing should be discussed towards peace but in confidence and in concert with our ally. He made great al lowance for the ministers, saw how they were affected, and the reasons of it, but could not subscribe to the opinion that Congs, ought to pass over the separate article in the manner that had been urged. Congs, ought he said to disapprove of it in the softest terms that could be de vised & at all events not to take part in its concealment. Mr. Bland treated the separate article with levity and ridicule; as in no respect concerning France, but Spain with whom we had nothing to do. Mr. Carroll thought that unless some thing expressive of our disap probation of the article & of its concealment was done, that it would be an indelible stain on our character. Mr. Clarke contended that it was still improper to take any step, ei ther for communicating officially, or for taking off the injunction of secresy, that the article concerned Spain, and not France, but that if it sd. be communicated to the latter she would hold herself bound to communicate it to the former that hence an embarrassment might ensue; that it was probably this consideration which led the Ministers to the concealment, and he thought they had acted right. He de scribed the awkwardness attending a communication of it under pre sent circumstances; remarking finally that nothing had been done contrary to the Treaty, and that we were in possession of sufficient 3 materials to justify the suspicions wch. had been manifested. Mr. Rutlidge was strenuous for postponing the subject, said that Congs, had no occasion to meddle with it, that the Ministers had done
