March 24, 1783 87 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:389. ■James Maury (1746-1840), a merchant of Fredericksburg, Va., was Madison’s business agent and later served from 1790 to 1830 as U.S. consul at Liverpool. Ibid., l:114n.8. 2 Madison undoubtedly wrote this letter in the morning before attending Congress because he had learned of the probable “day of the signature” by the time he appended his postscript and was able to state it with certainty when he wrote to Edmund Ran dolph, for which see the following entry. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. March 24, 1783. The express by whom I send this conveys to the Governor the wel come event of a general peace. 1 The preliminary articles were signed on the 20th of Jany. The day to which hostilities are limited is omitted in the abstract of the preliminaries transmitted to Congs. This intelli gence altho’ not from our Ministers is authenticated beyond all possi bility of doubt. For the outlines of the Articles I refer to the letter to the Govr. & for the articles themselves as red. by Congs, to my letter by tomorrows post. 2 I am &c. J. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:390. 1 See the Virginia delegates’ letter to Benjamin Harrison, this date. 2 See Madison to Randolph, March 25, 1783. John Francis Mercer to William Fitzhugh and George Weedon Dear Gentlemen Phila. March 24th. 1783 At length mine eyes have seen my salvation. The negociations in Eu rope, have at length happily terminated in a general pacification. The Triumph a french frigate dispatched by the Marquiss of Fayette, & the Comte de’Estaign, with a proclamation of the cessation of Hostil ities, arriv’d here last night. The Ch’ du’Quine who commands her brings with him the heads of the Preliminary Articles of the general Peace, which were signed at Paris the 20th of January. To add to the most happy event the late confusion of the Army has terminated in a manner which reflects additional honor on that band of Patriots. By these Articles an alteration in our Southern boundary as affixed in the partial preliminaries between G.B. & A. has taken place & we are restricted to the 32 Degree.
