88 March 24, 1783 France gains a small Island or two, Spain the Floridas & Minorca, & the Dutch loose Negapatam. Adieu. Thank God, John F. Mercer RC (PPAmP: Weedon Papers). Addressed: “The Honble Brigadier General Weedon or William Fitzhugh Esqr., Fredericksburg.” John Montgomery to Robert Magaw My Dear Sir Philada 24th March 1783 By a Cutter arrived here Last night in 35 day from Cadiz we have the important accts that on the 20th Janry last the articles of peace was Signed by all the Contending Powers. Our articls stand nearly as before agreed on. France Keeps Tobago and Senegall. France re turns Granada, St Vincent, Dominque, St Kitts, St Eustahia. Dema- rau, Essequibl, Barbirie are to be restored to Hollan. England re stores to France Gorrie, St Lucie, St Peerie, Miguelon. The fishers on the Banks of newfoundland to Continue as in the treaty of 1763 Except from the Coast of the Cape St Johns which is to be ceded to Great Britian. Franc is to be restablished in India as well at Bengali on the Eastren and westren Coasts of Presque Isle as regulated by the treaty of 1763. The articls of proceeding treaties concerning the Demolition of Dunkirk to be suppressed. Spain to retain Minorca and West Floradia and England to cede East Floradia to Spain the arrangment to be made between Spain and great Britian about the Cutting of Wood at Compeachey in the Bay of Honderas. Great Britain to retain the Duch Setlement of Nega- gatemm in the East india. Great Britian to restore Trangumal to the Duch if not retaken. St Eustahia, Dimeira and Issquliba to be restored by the franch to the Duch. Great Britian accknowladges the Independency of the united States of Amirca, the limits of the united States as agreed on in the Provi sional articles Except that they Shall not Extend farthur down the River Mississapia then 32 Degrees of north Latitude from thence a line to be Drawn to the head of the river of St Marys and Down the midle of that River to the m[outh]. Now my Dear frind the Sun riases bright in this our Western world. Happey Shall we be if by a wise and prudent Conduct we improve this happey Event. I am, Dear Sir your assurd Frind and Humbl Servant, John Montgomery RC (PHi: James Hamilton Papers). Addressed: “Col. Robert Magaw at Carlisle.”
