March 24, 1783 89 New York Delegates to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia, March 24, 1783 We have the happiness to inform your Excellency that yesterday ar rived the Triumph a Cutter from Cadiz, with letters from the Marquis La Fayette announc[ing] the certainty of the preliminaries of a gen eral peace signed between all the belligerent powers the 20th. of Jan uary. There are letters from the Count D’Estaing to the French Minis ter to the same effect, and an instruction from him to the Captain of the Cutter to advertise all British and French vessels of the event, with an order to the latter to cease hostilities. The preliminaries for America we have already had the honor of transmitting. We mean the provisional articles. The French are reinstated in the East Indies as in 63—mutual ces sions of all conquests during the war are made, except of Tobago & Senegal which remain to France. France has in substance the same share in the Fisheries as before the war. Spain has acquired Minorca and the two Floridas. The Dutch lose Negapatam 1 to the English. [... ] on this happy occasion [... ] hopes. It only remains to pro vide for internal tranquillity—and by drawing the links [of] the Union closer to prevent those states from becoming [the] foot ball of Euro pean politics. We have the honor to be With perfect respect Your Excellency’s Most Obedient servants, Wm Floyd A Hamilton RC (N: legislative Papers). Written by Hamilton and signed by Hamilton and William Floyd. 1 A town in Madras, India. North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Martin Sir, Philadelphia 24th March 1783 Your Excellency will doubtless lay before the general Assembly a Letter from their Delegates of 22d October 1782 with some papers to which it refers, also a Communication that was made us on the 10th of January by the minister of France, by order of the King his master, a Copy of which we forwarded some time ago. 1 We expected that before this time we should have been able to have furnished you with the particulars of a plan of funding the Public debts or at least a Considerable part of them, but this business meets with such delays from incidental occurrences and the great diversity
