90 March 24, 1783 of Opinions that prevails among the States, we fear it will not arrive during the first Session of the General Assembly; in the mean while we count it our duty to furnish the State with some account of the chief objects that have lately drawn the attention of Congress, for if we are not mistaken concerning their importance they must on some occa sion demand its most serious Deliberations. On the 6th of January a Committee from the army presented a Memorial to Congress, explaining many substantial grievances.2 A Copy is enclosed. We have promised but have not yet been able to pay them one months pay. After much time employed in discussing the subject of commutation for half pay, two days ago the question was fully agreed to by nine States. Promises even those which are spacious, are found by experience to be very light food. Our Army and all other public creditors wish for something more substantial, for whatever has been fabled concerning the Camelion, it is generally believed that no animal can live on the air. Money or good Securities are desire’d. We have neither. But securities may be given, that is to say, the debts may be funded. By good & permanent funds the credit of the United States would be restored. Perhaps there are no possible funds that would be pleasing to all. We have been attempting with much pains to fix on some mode by which the quota of the several States might be determined according to the 8th Article of the Confederation, i.e. according to the value of located Lands & their improvements. The Rule is good and plain but the question is extremely difficult; How shall the value be fixed? Let the appropriated Lands and their improvements be valued by the In habitants of the respective States and we have great reason to believe, from proofs before us, that the valuation would be unequal and un just; for instance, The average value of lands as they are now rated for the purpose of taxation in the State of Virginia is one third higher than the value of Lands as they are rated in Pennsylvania though it is certain that Lands in Pennsylvania are at an average worth one third more than the Lands in Virginia. If such valuation should be made in fixing the continental Quota, Pennsylvania when compared with Vir ginia would not pay quite half the sum she ought to pay. We have many other Arguments which either prove the different frauds or the diversity of opinions respecting the value of Lands which prevail in different States. It is presumed that the valuation would be more uni form and just if it was made by a Set of Commissioners who should view all the lands and buildings in the United States. But there is rea son to believe that such process, like estates entailed, would be perpet ual and, it would be an even chance which would come first The fix ing the quotas or the day of Judgment. The eastern States, who consider the valuation Scheme as impracticable, talk much of fixing the quota’s according to the number of Inhabitants, making
