March 24, 1783 91 considerable allowance for slaves. Some of them propose to exclude all Slaves under 16 Years, which would be rating two slaves for one free men. We presume that the Southern States would meet them upon this ground or even upon ground somwhat lower for the sake of prevent ing Jealousies, a Contention and delay but we fear that if an attempt should be made to alter or amend the mode of fixing the quota, those very men would again talk of a Slave being equal to a white man. The Plan which is now recommended to the States, the only one on which we could agree having regard to the Spirit of the confederation may probably lead us to value the Lands according to the number of Inhab itants, that is, to suppose that a thousand acres of Land which main tains ten families is worth Ten Times as much as a thousand acres which maintains only one family. As the valuation is to be made by a grand Committee consisting of a member from each State we presume that the several States will take care to be represented at that time. Congress has been attempting to modify the impost of 5 per Cent so as to make it acceptable to the States who have complained. In the mean while attempts have been made to lay a general Tax on Lands, houses &ca as you will see by the Journal No . We presume that no such Tax will be recommended to the States because we think that the States should be left to tax Lands & other permanent property in such man ner and at such rates as they think best. On the 24th of January Mr. Morris who is financier, from a view of the bad State of our finances informed Congress that he proposed to resign. Congress however did not take any public notice of that com munication, because they expected in a few weeks to be able to adopt a system of Finance which might revive public credit. Some weeks passed and nothing material could be done when a second Letter was received from the Financier, both of which he published without the previous knowledge of Congress. 3 A Copy is inclosed. The Letters cer tainly refer to a want of disposition in the States to provide funds, evi denced in the recent case of Rhode Island & Virginia, but they are In cautiously worded & might involve a suspicion that Congress or the States at large did not mean honestly. If public credit had been alive the publishing those Letters would have proved a sickening dose, but there are times when nothing can hurt. It has been hinted from differ ent quarters that there is danger of our borrowing too much money. The whole sum that has been borrowed from the beginning of the war in France, Spain, or Holland does not amount to eight millions of Dollars, and by accounts received by the last packet we have great rea son to believe that we shall not be able to borrow a single farthing more. Whether we shall submit to beg is another question. The Public Creditors, that is to say, the loan officers Certificates in the State of Pennsylvania have been extremely importunate for Pay ment. Their clamor orriginated last summer in the Stoppage of Inter-
