94 March 24, 1783 hoods & frauds of Tories had continued the war & might prevent a Peace, but we should not accept Peace on the humiliating Terms of cherishing the Plunderes of our Property and murderers of our friends. It was fortunate that those Renegadoes had not so many sub stantial Friends in England as the Merchants had, else it is questioned what the consequence might have been. At present nothing is given them but the promise of a recommendation. Light food: however the reward is quite equal to the Service. Yesterday morning the Triumph a French Corvet arrived here in a short passage from Cadiz. By this vessel we have assurances that the preliminaries for a General Peace were signed by all the belligerent powers on the 20th January. On this fortunte & happy event we sin cerely congratulate our fellow Citizens of North Carolina, that se cures a perfect Peace on the most liberal Terms with the full injoy- ment of Liberty. May they continue to enjoy and deserve the blessing; It is the greatest that Heaven in its Bounty has ever be stowed on so large a Nation. We presume that Sir Guy Carlton has not yet received the Prelimi naries of the General Peace, for he sent us Yesterday, and not sooner, the Copy he had received from England of the Preliminaries signed on the 30th of November. 5 Inclosed are the outlines of the General Terms of Pacification by which you will observe that we got a degree less on the Bank of the Mississipi than had been first marked off. The Marquis de la Fayette had prevailed on the Count d’Estaing to send the vessel mentioned, from the mere hope that she might chance to bring the first news of Peace. But you will observe by her pasport, a Copy of which is enclosed, that hostilities are to cease at whatever places she may touch immediately on her giving the notice. As we pre sume that we shall gain as much as the Enemy by this measure, we did not loose a minute in giving Sir Guy Carlton and Admiral Digby the proper Information; by this we hope that some Vessels and, what we value more, some lives may be saved. Attempts have lately been made to excite Sedition in our main army; anonimous, enflammatory papers were circulated by Persons unknown. The Commander in chief hearing of this measure called a meeting of the officers some days ago. The whole proceedings on this occasion will be laid before you in time, from which you will certainly infer that our Army consists of the best Citizens as well as the bravest soldiers that ever drew a Sword. Before we disband our army and make some other necessary arrange ments for Peace some very interesting matters must be submitted to the States; for this reason we presume that another meeting of the General Assembly of North Carolina will be necessary at an early Day. We have the honor to be &ca, Hu Williamson Benjamin Hawkins 6
