March 25, 1783 97 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir, Philadelphia March 25 1783 E’er this I hope the Joyful Tidings of a general Peace has reached you. I wrote by Major Pierce as soon as possible after the arrival of this glorious Event. I am so weary of writing, that I am almost sick of a Pen & Ink, shall therefore only say that we are all well & very happy. I am much surprized at Pangburn sending the Cows to you, as he took them for the Year, and was bound to keep them at his own risque— hope you will set down the day they came, as I will charge him with them. If Pangburn chooses to retake them I would choose it—but if not, let them go to others, on the Terms Mr Southard has His viz—25 lb Butter per Year & to return them safe. Mr Southard must have the large Cow, but the brindle one is certainly the best. Let no Hay go to any body, that you think will be wanted for our own Creatures. As to John Breene if you give him an Inch, he will take an Ell, therefore you had best leave that matter to be settled by me. It would ease my mind greatly if you could sell all the Horses at any reasonable rate, as I know not what to do with them. I would wait for the money. My Head is perfecdy wild. Love to Mrs P. & Johnny. Am Yours Affecly, EB [PS.] I send you 10 Lima Beans pray send me a few stringless Beans. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). Committee of Congress to George Washington Sr. [March 25, 1783] i Many Events have lately occurrd which have occasiond me to trou ble your Excelly. with my Correspondence of a Private nature. I now take the Liberty of Writing to you by desire of a Committe of which I have the Honor to be one, to whom your Very Interesting dispatches to Congress of the 15th of this month were committed. 2 You will without doubt have been informd Sr. & have received with Pleasure the Intelligence of the Vote for the Commutation having passd Congress the Same day on which Yr. Excellency’s dispatches contain ing the truely sensible and Patriotic Resolutions of the Officers of the Army convened by Yr. Excellency’s Authority were received. 3 On that happy event I most Cordially Congratulate you Sr. and my Quon dam Brother officers. I think it must give the most sensible Pleasure to every Friend of this Country—that an event so interesting shd. take place at the very moment that a Certainty of Peace was announced—
