98 March 25, 1783 And that the Civil and Military at that Critical Juncture shd. so har monize on the Capital object of their Wishes. This event will I trust Eradicate from the minds of every Generous & thinking Man in the United States in whatever station he may be every Vestige of Suspi cion which those of an opposite Complexion might have endeavord to Implant. If my Conceptions of the Sense of Congress are right—I think I can assure Your Excellency—that all those Suspicions which may have been entertaind—of want of Gratitude to the Army or a desire to do them complete and ample Justice, are totally ground less. Your Excellency I hope knows too well my Candor to Imagine I wd attempt to deceive. If I have built my opinions (on this head) on an erroneous Idea of Congress, the Moment Such error is discoverd by me I shall think myself unpardonable not to disclose it. You Will perceive Sr. by the Enclosed Rough Copies No. 1 & 2 4 which the Committe have had Under their Consideration what is their Sense and what they have reason to think is the sense of Congress. We have thought it necessary to make to you Sr. a Confidential communica tion of our Sentiments in hopes that you will favor us with your opin ion thereon at large. Our doubt arises solely from this Consideration—viz that the Enor mous Expence of keeping the whole Army in the field untill their “Ac counts are Liquidated—the Ballances accurately ascertaind, and Funds Established for the Payment,” would be productive of the most Ruinous Consequences to the United States—might occasion Clamors among the Citizens—Embarrass the measures which Congress mean to take and so effect their Finances as to render it impossible to comply with what the Army most desire viz a punctual discharge of the debt due to them, on settlement. Your Excellency will I think require no Argu ment to shew the force of these observations. I will say nothing of the effects which ever have and ever will arise from keeping a large Army in the Field in a state of Inactivity, without any other object to employ their minds on, than their past sufferings and present distresses a re lief of which must be inevitably removed to a further distance by the very means they appear to point out to procure it. Altho the resolu tions of the Army on the Address to them by Yr. Excellency are per fectly explicit and breathe the most entire confidence in the Justice of Congress and the Sincere Intentions of that Body towards them. Yet lest some latent Spark of Suspicion undiscoverd by the Convention shd. unexpectedly discover itself, and laying hold of an ambiguous Ex pression, or even the Silence of Congress on some material point— does not Yr. Excellency conceive an Explicit and full declaration of Congress not only of their Intentions to do Ample Justice but of the mode by which it is to be done as far as depends on them, will be proper? Shd. you Sr. think proper to offer any amendment to either
