March 25, 1783 99 of the Enclosed resolutions or to start any new Idea—that may be thought more effectual than those they contain—you may be assured of their being laid before the Committe in the most Confidential manner and of receiving all possible attention. 5 Altho I write now at the request of the committe you will be pleased to consider this com munication, as not of a Public or official nature and communicable only to those in whom the most entire confidence is reposed. I need not inform your Excelly. of the earnest desire which the Committe have to make their report on this Subject as speedily as possible as you are fully apprized of the necessity of it, renderd, in my opinion, the more necessary by the great and Glorious event which has been so lately Announced to us of a General Peace. On which occasion I most Cordially and Sincerely Congratulate Yr. Excellency—with an assur ance, that Peace or War will never change in me the Unalterable affec tion and Esteem with which I am, Yr. Excelly’s most obedt. & most Humb. Svt. Theok. Bland P.S. You will excuse Sr., the hasty manner in which this has been writ ten—as a fear of loosing the opportunity by the Post has deprived me of the power of revising it. ENCLOSURES No. 1 That they be further informed that Congress will Take the most Speedy and effectual measures to Settle the accounts of the whole Army as well for the half Pay, or commutation if accepted as for the ar rearages due to them in the most ample and Satisfactory manner— and will devise the best and most efficacious means of Providing funds for the discharge of the Interest and Principal found due to them on such Settlement—and assure the Army that Congress will not direct any Line or corps to be disbanded untill they be respectively Marchd to a Rendevous within their respective States, and their accounts shall be finally settled & adjusted. No. 2 That he be further informed it is the Intention of Congress to effect the Settlement of the accounts of the Respective lines previous to their reduction and that Congress are doing and will continue to do every thing in their Power towards procuring Satisfactory securities for what Shall be found due on such Settlement. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Endorsed by Washington: “From The Hon Theodk. Bland, Supposed 25th March 83.” 1 This date is taken from the endorsement. Washington apparently received this letter at the same time he received the two letters of this date from Bland’s fellow committee- man, Alexander Hamilton.
