100 March 25, 1783 2 For the appointment of this committee, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 22, 1783, note 1. 3 See Elias Boudinot to Washington, March 23, 1783. 4 See the enclosures below. 5 In his April 4 reply, Washington advised Bland and the Committee that it was “an indispensable Measure, that previous to the Disbandg the Army, all their Accounts, should be compleatly liquidated and settled; and that every person shall be ascer tained of the Ballance due to him... .with the Army in its collected Body, without any dispersion of the different Lines to their respective States.” It was also “univer sally expected” and “absolutely indispensable,” he continued, “that three Months pay at least, must be given them before they are disbanded,” but that “if the whole can not be obtained before they are dispersed, the Receipt of One Month in Hand, with an absolute Assurance of havg the other two Months in a short Time, will be satisfac tory; should Mr Morris not be able to assure them the two last Months from the Treasury, it is suggested that it may be obtained in the States, by Drafts from [him] upon their several Continental Receivers.” See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:286-87. See also Bland to Washington, and Committee of Congress to Robert Morris, April 16, 1783. William Floyd to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, March 25th 1783. On the 23d the Vessel arrived with the Intelligence that the Pre liminary Articles for a General Peace was Signed at Paris the 20th Jan’y. On the Verbal accounts which we Reed from on board the Ves sel before she could get up to the town with her Dispatches, Mr. Car- tor was Sending an Express to Wadsworth, which I got knowledge of two Minutes before he went of, in which time I wrote your Excel lency a line on the Subject. Yesterday in our Joynt Letter we were Something more particular. In this I have the honour to Inclose to, your Excellency a Copy of the Marquise’s Letter to our Secretary of foreign Affairs, and the Articles Sent by him, with the passport or In structions given by Count D’Estaing to the Captain which brought the Intelligence. The Marquis being at Cadiz nearly Ready to sail with the Count D’Estaing for the West Indies, on the Signing of the Articles at Paris, Express was sent to Cadiz to stop them, his Attention to and anxiety for this Country induced him to solicit the Count for a Vessel to bring us the Intelligence, which was readily Granted. In order to Save the lives and Vessels of the people we have thought proper to Direct the Secretary of Foreign Affairs to Send to Genl. Carlton, a Copy of Count d’Estaing’s Instructions, with the Other In telligence which we have Reed, and to propose to him that all Hostili ties Should Cease and the Cruisers on both sides Should be Called in. Mr. Lewis Morris is sent to New York on the Business. 1 Altho it is important to us that we Should be in possession of our Capital, I fear that many weeks will elapse before the Event can take
