March 25, 1783 107 not be many days before Congress will officially receive the definitive treaty, & we expect that hostilities will soon cease in America. We have the honor to be, with the highest respect, for your Excel lency & the honorable Council, your most obedient servants, FC (MHi: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 See Gunning Bedford to George Read, March 24, note 1. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir In Congress. March 25th. 1783. Having dispatched an Express yesterday, by whom we communi cated to your Excellency, the substance of the important & happy ad vices, receiv’d by the Ch. du Quesne, We now enclose yr. Excellency the days papers, in which you will no doubt, find many interesting par ticulars, & have to add, that the Ch. du Quesne, informs us that he has a table, ascertaining the different periods, established for the ces sation of Hostilities in different Quarters—viz. in Europe & thence to the Azores within 10 Days after the signing the Preliminaries on the 20th of January, within two months in America & within four months in the East Indies. 1 We have the honor to be, with much respect, Yr Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servts, 2 John F. Mercer Theok. Bland Jr. J. Madison Jr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Mercer and signed by Mercer, Bland, and Madison. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:390-91. 1 This information was in error. According to the terms of the Anglo-French and Anglo-Spanish treaties, the periods established for the cessation of hostilities at sea fol lowing their ratification (rather than their signing on January 20) were twelve days in the North Sea and English Channel, one month from the North Sea to the Canary Is lands (including the Mediterranean), two months from the Canaries to the equator, and five months in the remaining parts of the world. See European Treaties Bearing on the History of the United States and Its Dependencies, ed. by Frances G. Davenport and Oscar O. Paullin, 4 vols. (Washington, D.C.: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1917-37), 4:148-49, 151. See also James Madison to Edmund Randolph, June 10, 1783, note 6. 2 The Virginia delegates also wrote to the state’s auditors on March 27 notifying them that they had “received in consequence of two bills of Exchange remitted by J. Ambler Esq. each of us one hundred pounds Virga, currency; and request the Auditors of the Commonwealth of Virginia to issue warrants to that amount and charge the same to us in part of our Salaries as Delegates to Congress.” Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:405.
