108 March 25, 1783 Hugh Williamson to Alexander Martin Dear Sir, Philada 25th March 1783 From the Length of a public Letter which is inclosed 1 with this you will presume it is at least probable that I am pretty well tyred with writ ing. I had written by last Post to Petersburg 2 & desired a gentleman there to keep an Express in readiness on the Arrival of the Post which set out from this to Day, that he might carry our Dispatches as far as Coll. Long’s at Halifax. Our State Being one of the few who gave their Delegates no Instructions to hire Expresses at the public Expence, we thought that sending from Petersburg was sufficient at our private Ex pence. However a young gentleman from Flanders has just an nounced to us that he will set out to morrow morning by day light for S. Carolina & having led Horses expects to reach Chas Town in 17 days. He offers to carry our Letters, we thought such a Jehu was preferable to the Post as more Expeditious. Your Excellency recollects that by the dates of our Commissions our Seats are vacant in Congress on the 13th of May. 3 There are now 12 States represented, but Georgia is not of that number & we fear she may not be represented for some Time, by her absence the southern Interest is weakened. I need not inform you that the Business in Congress for some Time must be extremely difficult & interesting. Arrangements are to be made for a Peace Establishmt. and such Settlemt made if possible con cerning past Transactions and the great debt contracted as may give general Content & secure that Union in Peace which has been so ef fectual in War. I foresee the difficulty of this Business & heartily wish that if mistakes are to be committed some Person was in my Place who can more easily make them acceptable to the State. I never feard a public Enemy half so much as I fear the Risque of political Blunders. Mr Hawkins and myself will be very anxious to know what the Assem bly is engaged in as soon as a House is formed and Business is fully taken up. I presume the Election for public Officers may be between the 20th & 25th of April, in that Case an Account of it may reach us before the 12th of May. The Post which leaves Petersburg on Friday morning reaches this on the next Monday week. An Express from Hilsbro on Monday morning will easily reach Petersburg on Thursday Evening in Time to meet the Post. In this Case your Letters would reach us in 14 days. As soon as Congress receive their Official Ac counts of Peace with the Definitive Articles & shall have confirmed the same, they shall be forwarded to you by Express. I have the Honor to be, Your most obedt hble Servt, Hu Williamson
