March 25, 1783 109 P.S. I have taken the Liberty to propose to Mr Ph. Hawkins 4 a Plan for disposing of the Western Lands so as to produce a solid Revenue to the State, or to discharge a very weighty Debt. RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). 1 See North Carolina Delegates to Martin, March 24, 1783. 2 Not found. 3 See JCC, 22:401-2. 4 No letters from Williamson to Hawkins have been found. Both Philemon Hawkins II and III were members of the Council of State at this time. See Did. of N. C. Biog., 3:74-75. Oliver Wolcott to Heman Swift Sir 1 Philadelphia. 25 March 1783 When I wrote you my former Letters 2 in answer to that which I reed, from you I did not know that the Secretary at War had in Octr. informed Congress that a Brigadier ought to be appointed for the Connecticut Line. 3 I mention this Circumstance as the Secretary has shewn me a Letter from you to him wherein you mention that you had receved a Treatment which you had no Reason to expect and Mention that you had been informed from a Delegate in Congress that a Plan had been adopted by which you could not at present be promoted or words to this Effect. I have no copys of the Letters which I sent you upon this Subject, but so farr as I recollect I gave you a general Abstract of the Act of Congress respecting the Appointment of Brigadiers, and mentioned in general that this System had been adopted upon advice. I wish Sir to recal your Attention to the Tenor of my Letter, for altho you do not Suggest and I am confident that you never meant to Suggest that I had given you the least Intimation that I supposed that the Secretary at War had any unfreindly disposition towards you—yet as you men tion to the Secretary that you had reed. Information upon this Subject from a Delegate in Congress and appear to be disappointed in your Expectations from him, an Opinion might in some measure be formed from these Circumstances that the Manner of my Writing to you had induced you to have the unfavourable Opinion which you Appear to entertain. As I know your Candor, I wish that you would State in your Letter to that which the Secretary tells Me he shall Send to you, wheither this Opinion has been founded upon any Sugges tions of Mine, not that I doubt what your Answer will be, but to obvi ate any Misapprehensions. In my letter I believe that I was explicit in saying that I was perswaded that the Candor of the Secretary at War, his Friendship for you, and His Regard for the Merit of your Services,
