110 March 25, 1783 would dispose him to do every Thing in his Power which he consis tently could, to gratify your Wishes. I am Very sorry Sir that you have not had that publick notice taken of your Services which I beleive that nothing but some particular Cir cumstances, totally unconnected with your own personal character, has prevented. Injustice to the Secretary at War I must say that I always considered him as a Gentleman impartial and candid in his Administration and I believe that he has not had any Design to do you an Injury. The Secretary at War never intimated to me that he imagined that I had wrote to you any Thing that was improper, but as such an Idea may possibly exist in his mind, if it does so, I wish that it was removed as I do not wish to have it thot that I meddle with a Department which does not belong to me. I congratulate you upon the Establishment of our independence and the Restoration of a general Peace, and hope that We shall soon hear that the Definitive Articles are signed by the belligerent Powers. I think that the Articles so farr as they respect America will give Univer sal Satisfaction. I am Sir with much esteem and Regard, your most Obedt. Servant Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi: Wolcott Papers). i Hernan Swift, who had served as a colonel in the Connecticut Line since 1776, had been recommended for promotion to brigadier general by General Washington on February 5, 1783. He was appointed a brigadier general by brevet in September. Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:101; and Heitman, Historical Register, p. 390. 2 Not found. s See JCC, 23:648-51. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Sir. Philadelpa. 25 March 1783 I congratilate you upon the Restoration of Peace. I think that it is established in a Manner which will be agreable to America. A small Al teration you will perceive has been made in our Southern Line upon the Mississippi in favour of Spain. They are harmless Neighbours it is therefore a Circumstance of but little Consequence. No Official Infor mation from our Minister, has yet been reed, as to the general Peace but the Event may be depended upon as certain—wheither the Arti cles as agreed upon by the belligerent Powers are definitive is not know[n] and it is but of little Consequence how this Matter is. Neither is it known when Hostilitys were to cease in the Various Parts of the world—but I take it it was intended to be as soon as possibly it could be effected without limiting the time for doing it.
