116 March 27, 1783 the period at which they were made.” On a question for striking out, the original paragraph was agreed to without opposition. On the ques tion to insert the amendment of Mr. M, the votes of the States were 5 ays—6 noes viz N.H. no—Cont. no—N.J. no, Delr. no, Maryd. no, S.C. no. The rest ay. On (10) paragraph relative to expences incurred by the States with out the sanction of Congs. Mr. Clarke exclaimed agst. the unreason- bleness of burdening the Union with all the extravagant expenditures of particular States: and moved that it might be struck out of the Re port. Mr. Helmsly 2ded the motion. Mr. [Madison] said that the ef fects of rejecting this paragraph wd. be so extensive that a full consid eration of it ought at least to preceede such a step, that the expences referred to in the paragraph were in part such as would have been previously sanctioned by Congs, if application cd. have been made; since similar ones had been so with respect to States within the vicinity of Congs, and therefore complaints of injustice would follow a refusal, that another part of the expences had been incurred in support of claims to the territory of which cessions were asked by Congs, and there [fore] these cd. not be expected, if the expences incident to them should be rejected; that it was probable if no previous assurance were given on this point, it would be made a condition by the States ceding, as the Cessions of territory would be made a condition by the States most anxious to obtain them; that by these mean[s] the whole plan would be either defeated, or the part thereof in question be ulti mately forced on Congs, whilst they might with a good grace yield it in the first instance; not to mention that these unliquidated & unallowed claims would produce hereafter such contests & heats among the States as wd. probably destroy the plan even if it sd. be acceded to by the States without this paragraph. Mr. Dyer was in favor of the paragraph. Mr. Rutledge opposed it as letting in a flood of claims which were founded on extravagant projects of the States. Mr. Higgenson & Mr Ghorum were earnest in favor of it, remarking that the distance of Massachusetts from Congs, had denied a previous sanction to the Militia operations agst. General Burgoyne &c. The Penobscot expedition also had great weight with them. Mr. Williamson was in favor of it. Mr. Wilson said he had always considered this Country with re spect to the war, as forming one community; and that the States which by their remoteness from Congs, had been obliged to incur expences for their defence without previous sanction, ought to the placed on the same footing with those which had obtained this secu rity; but he could not agree to put them on a better which wd. be the case if their expences sd. be sanctioned in the lump: he proposed therefore that these expences sd. be limited to such as had been in-
