124 March 31, 1783 gence was not authentic enough to justify the British commanders in complying with such an overture; and therefore that Congs, would be exposed to the mortification of a refusal. The former considerations prevailed & a verbal sanction was given to Mr. Livingston’s expressing to the sd. Commanders the expectation of Congs. &c. 4 This day their answers were reed, addressed to Robt. R. Livingston Esqr. &c&c&c. de clining to accede to the stopping of hostilities at sea, & urging the ne cessity of authentic orders from G.B. for that purpose. 5 With their let ters Mr. Livingston communicated resolutions proposed from his office, “that in consequence of these letters the orders to the Ameri can Cruisers sd. be revoked; and that the Executives sd. be requested to embargo all vessels. [”] Congs, were generally sensible after the rect. of these papers that they had committed themselves in proposing to the British Commanders at N.Y. a stop to naval hostilities; & were ex ceedingly at a loss to extricate themselves. On one side they were un willing to publish to the world the affront they had reed, especially as no written order had been given for the correspondence and on the other it was necessary that the continuance of hostilities at sea should be made known to American Citizens. Some were in favor of the revo cation of hostilities. Others proposed as Col. Bland & Genl. Mifflin, that the Secy, of F. A. should be directed verbally to publish the letters from Carlton & Digby. This was negatived. The superinscription was animadverted upon particularly by Mr. Mercer, who said that the let ters ought to have been sent back unopened. Finally it was agreed that any member might take copies & send them to the press & that the subject should lie over for further consideration. 6 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:420-21. 1 For William Greene’s March 18 letter, see Elias Boudinot to Greene, January 16, 1783, note 2. 2 In this paragraph, to the sentence ending “expressing to the sd. Commanders the expectations of Congs. &c.,” Madison continued to summarize proceedings in Congress that occurred on March 24. See Madison’s Notes, March 24, 1783. 3 For Congress’ directive to the agent of marine, see Gunning Bedford to George Read, March 24, 1783, note. 4 Acting on “verbal" rather than written orders, Robert R. Livingston had suggested in letters of March 24 to Sir Guy Carleton and Admiral Robert Digby that they emulate Congress’ order of that day by recalling all armed vessels thus preventing “the further effusion of blood at sea.” PCC, item 79, 3:103-5; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:336-37. 5 Carleton’s and Digby’s letters of March 26 and 27, respectively, refusing to withdraw British cruisers without express orders from London were addressed to Livingston who submitted them to Congress this day under a covering letter dated March 30. He fur ther proposed that Congress revoke its March 24 resolution recalling American cruisers and recommend to state executives that they prevent, as far as possible, the sailing of any vessels pending receipt of official accounts of the cessation of hostilities. See PCC, item 79, 3:97-98, 101—2, 107—8, item 119, fols. 261-64, item 185, 3:59; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:346.
