126 April 1,1783 of this Epocha, almost overcomes me at times. It opens a new Scene to Mankind, and I believe is big with inconcievable Effects in the politi cal & I hope in the moral world. I rejoice that the Conclusion of the Negotiations will be particularly serviceable to you, and as far as it lays in my Power consistent with my Duty to my Country, nothing shall be wanting to advance your Interests, on every Occasion. Congress are so oppressed by the ill timed parsimony of the States, that they are turn ing all their Attention to lessen the Comon Expences; and among other means, are reducing their Ministers in Europe. Messr. Franklin, Adams & Laurens & Dana have resigned & are returning home, as soon as the Treaty is perfected. Several Efforts have been made to appoint Charge des Affairs at some of the Courts & residents & consuls at others, but Congress are determined not to make advances at present to any other European Court, as they think they have already gone too far in this Business al ready. But if any such Appointments should be proposed for Lisbon, I shall be mindful of my Friend. 1 I am totally ignorant of what you refer to in the latter part of your Letter, having never heard any thing from that Quarter, that can lead me to the least Clue, to find your Meaning—am therefore perfectly clear of the least improper Impression from any misrepresentation whatever from any thing you may refer to. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan (who is just getting up from a slight ill ness) join in the kindest & most affectionate remembrance. Am My dear Sir, Your sincere Friend & very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot [PS.] It gave me pain that I was from home when Mr Borden called with your Letter—and when I sent to enquire for him he had left Town. My Compliments to him. RC (DLC: Boudinot Papers). 1 Searle’s thoughts were actually on a consular appointment to Madeira, where he had lived 16 years as a young man in the employ of his brother’s firm, John Searle & Co. For Searle’s financial difficulties at this time, after his return from a mission to Eu rope on behalf of Pennsylvania, see Mildred E. Lombard, ‘James Searle: Radical Busi ness Man of the Revolution,” PMHB 59 (July 1935): 292-93. Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear sir. Tuesday morn, Philada., April 1st, 1783. I understand that Mr. Jones sits out for Boston this morning, there fore, I embrace this first opportunity to acquaint your Excellency, that a resolution passed in Congress yesterday, in your favor, for 3248 dollars, 1
