April 1, 1783 127 which I hope will be agreeable, the Financier is directed to take order respecting the same, & no doubt you soon will be officially notified. Congress have not yet received the definitive treaty respecting Peace, but are expecting it every hour. I have the honor to be, with the highest sentiments of respect, your Excellency’s most obedient servant; FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Congress had directed the superintendent of finance to pay Hancock $3,248 “for household and other expences for two years and five months, being the time he acted as President of Congress.” JCC, 21:219-20. See also Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, November 20, 1782, note 1; and Holten to Hancock, February 12, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Tuesday April 1. 1783. Mr. Ghorum called for the order of the day to wit the Report on Revenue &C. 1 and observed as a cogent reason for hastening that busi ness that the Eastern States at the invitation of the Legislature of Massts. were with N.Y. about to form a convention for regulating mat ters of common concern, 2 & that if any plan sd. be sent out by Congs, during their session, they would probably cooperate with Congs, in giving effect to it. Mr. Mercer expressed great disquietude at this information, consid ered it as a dangerous precedent, & that it behoved the Gentleman to explain fully the objects of the Convention, as it would be necessary for the S. States to be otherwise very circumspect in agreeing to any plans on a supposition that the general confederacy was to continue. Mr. Osgood said that the sole object was to guard agst. an interfer ence of taxes among States, whose local situation required such pre cautions: and that if nothing was defi[ni]tively concluded without the previous communication to & sanction of Congs, the confederation could not be said to be in any manner departed from; but that in fact nothing was intended that could be drawn within the purview of the federal articles. Mr. Bland said he had always considered those Conventions as im proper & contravening the spirit of the federal Governmt. 3 He said they had the appearance of young Congresses. Mr. Ghorum explains as Mr. Osgood. Mr. [Madison] & Mr. Hamilton disapproved of these partial conven tions, not as absolute violations of the Confederacy, but as ultimately leading to them & in the mean time exciting pernicious jealousies; the latter observing that he wished instead of them to see a general Convention take place & that he sd. soon in pursuance of instructions
