130 April 1, 1783 further particulars relative to them. Your surmize as to the dangerous phraseology which may be used in designating our limits, may be real ized, if our Ministers are not cautious or sd. yield to improper consid erations. But I trust that no such defaults will happen on that side; & that even if they should, the language used by Congress in all their own acts on that head will overpower any arguments that may be drawn from acts of their Ministers. Mrs. Randolph’s & your good wishes were reed, by Mrs. House & Mrs Trist with marks of unfiegned affection. The latter will however speak for herself. Doer. Lee sets off to day or tomorrow for Virga, but talks of return ing hither before the meeting of the Legislature, which however he means to attend. His immediate object I suppose is to attend the County election. 5 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:429-30. 1 See ibid., pp. 380-81. 2 For Arthur Lee’s March 11 letter to Randolph, see Lee to James Warren, March 12, 1783, note 6. 3 That is, Benjamin Franklin. 4 For this exchange, see Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 31, 1783. 5 Arthur Lee apparently left Philadelphia this day to participate in Virginia assembly elections, returning on April 23. He departed again on May 12 to serve as an assembly delegate, resuming his seat in Congress on July 16. See JCC, 24:276, 435; Bland, Papers (Campbell), 2:108-9; Lee to Abigail Adams, April 23; and Madison to Randolph, May 13, 1783, note 1. The Lee faction in the Virginia House of Delegates was weakened dur ing the May session, however, when opponents revived a law in effect from 1777 to 1779 making congressional delegates ineligible to sit in either house of the assembly, thus denying Arthur Lee’s re-election. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:47n.8, 78n.4. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir, Philadelphia April 1st. 1783. Since We had the honor to write your Excellency last Week, no fur ther intelligence has been received on the subject of peace. Last Mon day Congress directed the Agent of Marine to recall the American cruizers & the Secretary of foreign affairs sent a Copy of the resolu tion to Genl. Carelton & Adml. Digby together with the Communica tions from the Count D’Estaing & the Marquis la Fayette at the same time requesting the measure of calling in their Cruisers to be adopted. The General & Admiral both Answer’d that they had no Of ficial or other information of the signature of the Preliminary treaty, than what Mr. Livingston gave & that until orders were received they should not think themselves justifiable in Acceeding to the proposi tion. Admiral Digby recommended the detention of all Vessels in the
