132 April 1, 1783 miral Digby the intelligence. This in the event has proved the insin cerity of those protestations which they have heretofore been so lib eral of, their disposition to prevent the further effusion of human blood. Their protestations appear then to have been a part of their system of political insincerity and delusion, which has disgraced the British Councils throughout this war. They write Mr. Livingston in return, that they do not think them selves authorized to take any steps which might facilitate the sus pension of hostilities. So that, as yet we remain in statu quo, waiting impatiently the arrival of official information from our ministers. In New York they cannot yet relinquish that insolence which they have on all occasions manifested, and the security which the articles give the Tories, I understand, will induce them all to remain, without inspiring them with those dispositions which can alone induce their countrymen to forget their transgressions. This is a partnership affair. I am yours with real affection, John F. Mercer. MS not found; reprinted from Balch, Papers Relating to the Maryland Line, pp. 206-7. 1 See Mercer to Weedon, March 24, 1783. 2 See Mercer to William Fitzhugh and Weedon, March 18, 1783. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sr. Philadelphia April 1st 1783 Your Excelly. will have received by our Express the important Intelli gence brought by the Triomphe. 1 That Intelligence (together with Authenticated Copies of Count D’Estaings dispatches relating to Peace which were received by the Minister of France) was sent into New York immediately by An officer in the department of foreign Affairs—and proposals, founded on the presumption of their Authenticity—were made to Sr. Guy Carleton and Admiral Digby by Congress—that a Suspension of Hostilities should immediately take place both by Sea and Land—that a Stop might be put to the further effusion of Human Blood. However Humane the motives might be which dictated these proposals—we find—the Appli cation has not Succeeded. The British Commanders have Informd Congress that no Authority has reached them from their Court—they could not therefore think themselves Justified in taking such a step— thus Untill that shall arrive, every thing remains with the British in Statu quo—altho the Hands of the French Naval Force in America are tied. Your Excelly will no doubt Judge it proper that this Intelligence may be conveyed as speedily as possible to our Sea Ports, to prevent the Risque which Vessels Sailing in this Critical Juncture might run. 2
