April 2, 1783 133 We sincerely wish that your Excelly wd. be pleased to urge to the As sembly at their next meeting—the making a provision for Establishing a Credit for the Delegates in this Place or where Congress may sit—so that they may be Enabled to draw their Salaries as they become due— that they may no longer be Subject to that uncertainty which they have hitherto Experienced—which lays them under every disadvan tage in their expenditure—Exposes them to be obliged to borrow fre quently on the most Humiliating terms to supply their real necessities, and consigns them to the Hands of Extortionate Usury. 3 We received no Public letter by the last Post. 4 We are with the most perfect respect, Yr. Excellys most obedt. svts Theok. Bland Jr. J. Madison Jr A. Lee Jos. Jones. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Bland and signed by Bland, Jones, Lee, and Madison. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:428-29. 1 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, March 24, 1783. 2 There is no evidence that Harrison carried out this suggestion, although the Vir ginia Gazette of April 12 carried a notice that Carleton and Digby would not follow Congress’ lead without authorization from London—information that came “from good authority.” 3 For Harrison’s April 12 response to this appeal, see Madison, Papas (Hutchinson), 6:455. 4 For speculation that Harrison’s March 20 letter was lost in transmission, see ibid., p. 372n.4. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir Philadelphia April 2nd 1783 I recievd your two last favors togeather by last post. Am oblidged to you for your ready Complyance with my order in favr of Mr Brown. I feel my self very Unhappy at the Misfortunes which attend your Cause. 1 I could not have thought the Assembly at Rhodisland could have hesitated a moment to suspend the Execution in the present sit uation of the Cause. Genii Varnum who appeard here last Novr the time the Cause was Assigned for Trial, when we were dissappointed by the failure of Mr Paca one of the Judges Attending, I then Urged for an Adjournment to be made to sometime, in the Winter or beginning of March by which time I supposed a New Judge would be appointed in the room of Mr Paca who was about to resign, & he might Attend but Genii Varnum who appeard as attorney for Stanton &c opposed it objecting that they could not Travail at that time in the extremity of Winter urging it to be delayd to the beginning of April & finally to Gratefye him & the appellants it was put off to April and it seems they now take the advantage to press on the Execution. But sir I have met with New troubles here. Mr Lowel of Boston who was appointed last
