April 7, 1783 141 is, exceedingly afraid of such a connection. She wishes, if possible, to prevent it, especially since she finds that Britain has wisely determined to give us every advantage in trade. 4 But shall we neglect to avail our selves of such an opening? It is our business to cultivate a friendly in tercourse with every trading nation, and to secure to ourselves as great and extensive advantages, in the way of commerce, as possible. The extravagant ideas which Europeans have formed of the advantages that they will derive from a trade with us, we certainly ought by no means to root out, but rather to make the most we can of them all. To lose so lucky a moment, and to neglect the improving such impres sions to our own benefit, would surely argue a great want of discern ment, and show a great deficiency in our political character. The ad vices from Mr. Dana discover a knowledge of mankind and the interests of the powers in Europe, which does him honor; but the same leaven has leavened the whole lump. He is so restrained by the French Minister at Petersburg, that I am afraid he will derive no ad vantage to us from his mission. Being bound to consult him, he dares not make any direct and explicit overtures, though persuaded that ev erything in that court was ripe for negotiation. I wish he may follow the example of Jay and Adams, and show the world that no dishonor able bands can fetter Americans. We are still hammering on a strange, though artful, plan of finance, 5 in which are combined a heterogeneous mixture of imper ceptible and visible, constitutional and unconstitutional taxes. It con tains the impost, quotas, and cessions of Western lands, and no part of it is to be binding unless the whole is adopted by all the States. This connection and dependence of one part on another is designed to produce the adoption of the whole. The cessions are to serve as sweet eners to those who oppose the impost; the impost is intended to make the quotas more palatable to some States; and the receiving it in whole is made necessary to secure the adoption of the whole, by work ing on the fears of those States who wish to reject a part of it only. It may happen that a State, strongly impressed with the necessity of pub lic taxes, may be thereby induced to receive it in whole, though op posed to some part of it, lest, through the failure of public funds, great evils may result; but I cannot imagine that such a plan will suc ceed—the artifice is not complete. The States will see, I trust, that Vir ginia and New York mean only to give them what is of no value, and not their property to dispose of, in order to secure to themselves a valuable territory which they now have no good claim to, and oblige the continent hereafter to guarantee and defend it for them. Madison has clearly, I think, shown that such is their intention in this scheme; this he did in an unguarded moment. Rhode Island has approved in the fullest and strongest terms of Mr. Howell’s conduct. South Carolina and Massachusetts have repealed
