148 April 8, 1783 Alexander Hamilton to George Washington Sir, [April 8, 1783] ‘ I have received your Excellency’s letters of the 31st of March & 4th of April, the last to day. 2 The one to Col Bland as member of the Com mittee has been read in Committee confidentially and gave great satis faction. 3 The idea of not attempting to separate the army before the settlement of accounts corresponds with my proposition. That of endeavouring to let them have some pay had also appeared to me in dispensable. The expectations of the army as represented by Your Ex cellency are moderation itself. To morrow we confer with the Superin tendant of Finance on the subject of money. There will be difficulty, but not we hope insurmountable. 4 I thank your Excellency for the hints you are so obliging as to give me in your private letter. 5 I do not wonder at the suspicions that have been infused, nor should I be surprised to hear that I have been pointed out as one of the persons concerned in playing the game described. But facts must speak for themselves. The Gentle men who were here from the army; General McDougall who is still here will be able to give a true account of those who have supported the just claims of the army, and of those who have endeavoured to elude them. There are two classes of men Sir in Congress of very Different views—one attached to state, the other to Continental politics. The last have been strenuous advocates for funding the public debt upon solid securities; the former have given every opposition in their power {to the measure) and have only been dragged into the measures which are now near being adopted by the clamours of the army and other public creditors. The advocates for Continental funds have blended the interests of the army with other Creditors from a conviction, that no funds for partial purposes will go through those states to whose cit izens the United States are largely indebted—or if they should he car ried through from impressions of the moment would have the neces sary stability; for the influence of those unprovided for would always militate against a provision for others, in exclusion of them. It is in vain to tell men who have parted with a large part of their property on the public faith that the services of the army are intitled to a prefer ence. They would reason from their interest and their feelings. These would tell them that they had as great a title as any other class of the community to public justice, and that while this was denied to them, it would be unreasonable to make them bear their part of a burthen for the benefit of others. This is the way they would reason & as their in fluence in some of the states was considerable they would have been able to prevent any partial provision.
