150 April 8, 1783 sonal enemies, who by playing upon the passions of others have drawn some well meaning men into the cry against him. But Mr. Morris cer tainly deserves a great deal from his country. I believe no man in this country but himself could have kept the money-machine a going dur ing the period he has been in office. From every thing that appears his administration has been upright as well as able. The truth is the old leaven of Deane & Lee is at this day working against Mr. Morris. He happened in that dispute to have been on the side of Deane & certain men can never forgive him. A man whom I once esteemed, 6 and whom I will rather suppose duped than wicked is the second actor in this business. The matter with respect to the army which has occasioned most al tercation in Congress and most dissatisfaction in the army has been the half pay. The opinions on this head have been two—one party was for referring the several lines to their states to make such commuta tion as they should think proper—the other for making the commuta tion by Congress and funding it on Continental security. I was of this last opinion and so were all those who will be represented as having made use of the army as puppets. Our principal reasons were 1st by referring the lines to their respective states, those which were opposed to the half pay would have taken advantage of the officers necessities, to make the commutation far short of an equivalent. 2dly. The in equality which would have arisen in the different states when the offi cers came to compare (as has happened in other cases) would have been a new source of discontent. 3dly. such a reference was a continu ance of the old wretched state system, by which the ties between Congress and the army have been nearly dissolved—by which the re sources of the states have been diverted from the common treasury & wasted; a system which Your Excellency has often justly reprobated. I have gone into these details to give You a just idea of the parties in Congress. I assure you upon my honor Sir I have given you a candid state of facts to the best of my judgment. The men against whom the suspicions you mention must be directed are in general the most sen sible the most liberal, the most independent and the most respectable characters in our body as well as the most unequivocal friends to the army. In a word they are the men who think continentally. I have the honor to be, With sincere respect & esteem, Yr. Excellcys Most Obed servt. A Hamilton [PS.] I am Chairman of a Committee for peace arrangements. 7 We shall ask Your Excellency’s opinion at large on a proper military peace establishment. I will just hint to Yr. Excellency that our prejudices will make us wish to keep up as few troops as possible. We this moment learn an officer is arrived from Sir Guy Car[1] eton with disptaches, probably official accounts of peace. 8
