152 April8, 1783 A motion was made by Mr. Hamilton who had been absent on the question on the 9th parag. of report on Revenue to reconsider the same. 3 Mr. Floyd who being the only delegate from N.Y. then present on that question, cd. not vote, 2ded the motion. For the argts. re peated see the former remarks on the 7 Api. 4 On the question the votes were Mas. no, R.L no, Cont. no, N.Y. ay, NJ. no, Pa. ay, Maryd. no, Virga, ay, S.C. no. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:436-37. 1 There is no entry for this date in the journals of Congress. 2 Madison apparently copied these estimates from a document filed with the grand committee report submitted April 4 and adopted the 7th, which is in PCC, item 26, fol. 403, and for which see Madison’s Notes, April 2-5, 1783. 3 For a similar attempt by Hamilton, see Madison’s Notes, April 1, note 5. 4 See Madison’s notes for the 7th. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. Api. 8. 1783. Your favor of the 29th ult. was duly reed, yesterday. 1 Your apprehen sions from the article in favor of British Creditors, correspond with those entertained by all whose remarks I have heard upon it. My hope is that in the definitive treaty the danger may be removed by a suspen sion of their demands for a reasonable term after peace. The publication of Mr. M’s letters was neither previously assented to nor known by Congress. Whether it was the act of Mr. M. himself is even unknown to them. After the injunction of secresy was taken off, the curiosity of any individual, or the interest of the printer might ob tain copies for the press. 2 The imperfect information brought by the French Cutter is all that we have yet reed, relative to peace. It is reported from N. York that similar intelligence has been brought thither by a vessel from Lisbon. Hostilities however continue to devour our commerce. The report on revenue of which I gave you the outlines 3 is still in an unfinished State; but in a way I flatter myself of being ultimately & substantially adopted. The admission into the common mass, of all ex- pences of the war not authorized by Congress is the remaining article of difficulty. 4 Even this however under some qualifications is so re spectably patronized & so intimately linked with the art[i]cle concern ing the back lands that I do not despair altogether of seeing that also finally comprehended. A change of the valuation of Lands for the number of Inhabitants deducting % of the Slaves, has reed, a tacit sanction & unless hereafter expunged will go forth in the general rec ommendation, as material to future harmony & justice among the members of the Confederacy. The {proportion) deduction of % was a
