154 April 8, 1783 until the latter part of May, if Occation requires it, although greatly against my inclination, (otherwise than to serve the State)—if any thing should happen that Mr Foster should not be likely to come on immediately I should be glad to know it, & to have leave to return sooner than I proposed. I have nothing to Communicate at present of Importance. I shall take it as a favour if you will send me a Deprecia tion Table for the State of N.H. Please to give my Regards to the Hon- ble. Committee. I remain Sir your sincere Friend & Humble, Servt, P White P.S. I had like to [... ] that unless I ha[... ] I shall not be a[... ] nor return home. April 9th. The news from New York sence I wrote the above I shall in close to the Honble. President, which Doubtless you will see. P W RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See White to Bartlett, February 5, 1783. 2 The New Hampshire General Assembly had declined the invitation of Massachusetts governor John Hancock to send delegates to an economic convention of the northern states in Hartford, Conn. N. H. State. Papers, 8:971-72. Committee of Congress to George Washington Sir Philadelphia, April 9th. 1783 Congress having appointed a Committee consisting of Messrs. Mad dison, Osgood, Wilson, Elseworth and myself to consider what ar rangements it will be proper to adopt in the different departments with reference to a peace; 1 I am directed by the Committee to address your Excellency on the subject of the military department. The Committee wish your Excellency’s sentiments at large on such institutions of every kind, for the interior defence of these states as may be best adapted to their circumstances and conciliate security with oeconomy and with the principles of our governments. In this they will be glad you will take as great latitude as you may think neces sary; and will therefore omit entering into any details. 2 The Committee apprehend it to be the intention of Congress to lay down a general plan to be carried into execution as circumstances will permit; and that in attending to such dispositions as the immedi ate situation of the Country may require, they are chiefly desirous of establishing good principles, that will have a permanently salutary operation. I have the honor to be, yr. Excellency’s Most obedient servant Alx Hamilton Chairman.
