April 10, 1783 159 2 The following quotas, which differ from those approved on April 7, were adopted by Congress on April 18. See JCC, 24:230-31, 259. Although this fact is difficult to reconcile with the letter’s April 9 date, White’s first two paragraphs appear to have been written in a different ink, suggesting that he may have begun the letter on April 9 but completed it no earlier than April 18. Elias Boudinot to Elizabeth Ferguson My dear Madam, Philadelphia Aprill 10th. 1783. Having this moment reed your very kind & affectionate Letter, I cannot omit scribbling a few Lines in answer, altho’ it is very late at Night, and I have attended Congress twice to day on Business of Im portance. I am too much flattered by your good Opinion, not to wish that you might think that every recommendation of yours, recieved my utmost attention; but really what I did for poor Roberts was so small, that it did not deserve to be mentioned. Mr Mede has mentioned the Terms on which you have rented the Farm, which I think not very bad, as the Taxes will not be near half of what they were last Year. 1 You will pardon me madam for detaining you so long before I most heartily congratulate you on the glorious News of an honorable & I hope a lasting Peace. This Morning we reed the official Confirmation of the Cessation of all Hostilities and the signing the Preliminary Arti cles between all the belligerent Powers. I suppose the cessation of Hostilities on our Part will be proclaimed to morrow or next day. This great Event is big with the most affecting and important Con sequences. A new Empire rising into Existence with such extensive Views, must attract the attention of the whole World. This Subject is too prolific for the hour of the night and my spent Spirits. May God bless you. I wish I had a prospect of snuffing the refreshing Breezes of Graeme Park. It would be a relaxation, that might give me new Life. Mrs. B. & Susan present the most affectionate Compliments not for getting Miss Stedman, to whom I beg my respectfull wishes. I am my Dr Madam with the greatest Esteem, Yours most Afftly, Elias Boudinot P.S. Our good General Washington is almost in raptures on acct of the good News. RC (CtY: Franklin Papers). Addressed: “Mrs. Elizabeth Ferguson, Graeme Park.” 1 For Mrs. Ferguson’s financial difficulties, see these Letters, 18:373-74.
