160 April 10, 1783 Elias Boudinot to John Hanson My dear Sir, Philadelphia Aprill 10th 1783 Your Favour of the 2d inst. was the most agreeable surprize that I have reed, for some time past, not Sir altogether on acct, of your kind congratulations on the glorious Event of a Peace so honorable to our common Country, in which I most heartily reciprocate every affection ate wish, but to find after mourning & regretting your Loss to your Friends & your Country & Sympathising with Mrs. Hanson who I sup posed in a most distressed State, that you was still in the Land of the liv ing & once more restored to Health & to usefulness in Life. In short Sir, we having had your Death anounced in the public news Papers, 1 con cluded with the Children, that what was printed must be true & really considered the Fact as beyond a doubt. Permit me Sir to rejoyce with your other friends on the agreeable mistake, and to wish you long to enjoy the Blessings of that Peace you have so long struggled for. To this misinformation has been owing my Silence since your leaving this City. Yesterday Sr. Guy Carleton sent by Express the King of Englands Proclamation for the Cessation of all Hostilities, and this morning we reed from France by an Arrival here the official Information of the same Circumstance on our part by a separate Instrument of accession, under the same Terms as those of France & Spain, and shall proclaim a Cessation of all Hostilities on the part of America tomorrow. I know you will rejoice greatly with me on this important News, and join in rendering Thanks to the great Governor of the universe who has thus continued his interposing Providence & at last crowned all our Labours with a Success far beyond our sanguine Expectation. We want now nothing but wisdom & union to perfect the glorious work. Mrs. Boudinot (tho unknown) joins me in the most respectful Com- plimt to Mrs. Hanson. Believe me to be, with the most unfeigned Esteem & respect, My D Sir, Your most Afft. & very Hble Servt, E B RC (IHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 Hanson’s death—“Last week ... at his seat in Frederick county, Maryland”—had been announced in the March 29 issue of David C. Claypoole’s Pennsylvania Packet. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday Api. 10. [1783] Letters red. from Genl. Carlton & Admiral Digby inclosing British proclamation of cessation of arms &c, also Letters from Doer. Franklin
