April 10, 1783 163 not yet signed, the terms not yet having been adjusted between the Court of Great Britain & the Seven U. Provinces. The British Prints inform us that in a Division on a debate in their House of Commons, on a Paragraph in their address to their King for approving the Peace a Majority of Sixteen were against the approba tion—North & Fox violently opposing the Ministry. The vote for ap proving was carried in the Lords—how this temper of the Commons may effect the Politics of Europe, or the Ministry of Great Britain time must determine. With the most perfect respect we are, Yr. Excelly’s most obedt. Serts. (Signed in behalf and at the request of the Delegates) Theok. Bland Jr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written and signed by Theodorick Bland. Madi- son, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:446-48. 1 In addition to copies of Carleton’s and Digby’s letters, for which see James Madi son’s Notes of Debates, this date, note 1, the delegates enclosed an April 9 supplement to the Pennsylvania Packet which included copies of the Anglo-French and Anglo-Span ish treaties of January 20. Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 2 See New York Delegates to George Clinton, April 9, 1783, note 1. 3 In opposing the offer of Kingston, N.Y., Bland and the other Virginia delegates were joined temporarily by Maryland delegates Daniel Carroll and Thomas Sim Lee in advo cating a site to be chosen as the seat of the Continental government. But Maryland had long been divided between Potomac River and upper Chesapeake Bay supporters and the latter proved to be better organized. As early as November 17, 1782, George Lux, a Baltimore merchant, had written the following letter to Bland, enclosing three copies of a broadside submitted to the Maryland legislature under the pseudonym “Aratus” which promoted Annapolis as the future seat of Congress. “I beg leave to refer the enclosed to your attention, and will take it as a very great favor if you will give me your opinion candidly on it by the next post. The author has, at the request of several members of our Assembly, written and published it, in order, if possible, to induce them to take speedy and effectual steps to accomplish the purposes therein specified. A few copies are distributed among them; and the remainder I shall send to my acquaintances in the different parts of the continent, Pennsylvania, Jersey, New York and Delaware excepted, which states, it is natural to suppose, will be averse to the measure. The author did not insert the piece in the paper, because the mere com monalty cannot understand the subject; and he is averse to run the hazard of being in volved in disputation, being in his noviciate as a writer. You are to consider the piece is addressed to a legislature, in which undoubtedly there must be many weak men, and therefore must be adapted to their genius and capacity; consequently many things are in it which would not have been, had none but men of understanding been expected to peruse it. “The matter will come before the Assembly during their present session, and I have not the least doubt of success, if they think Congress are disposed to accept their offers. It is certainly the duty of our Assembly to make the first advances; but the pride of many of the members is piqued, lest Congress would not close in with them. I could wish your body to be sounded upon the subject, and a judgment may with some certainty be formed whether the powers granted them, and an elegant Stadthouse, will prompt them to render Annapolis the permanent metropolis of America. Perhaps the powers therein specified will not be approved of; and I could wish to know in what points. I think the city of Annapolis ought to be laid off as a distinct independent territory, to-
