164 April 10, 1783 tally under the government of Congress; but so narrow in that respect are the preju dices of most of the states, that I think such a measure cannot be effected in any one of them. I suppose it could be so managed that Congress can have every real and substan tial power, only reserving to Maryland a mere nominal superintending control in Annapolis. Congress were cruelly treated by the state of Pennsylvania in 1779, in regard to the sloop Active; and, for want of efficient local powers in Philadelphia, were liable to be in sulted by the mob in regard to the payment of the interest of loan-office certificates. Mr. Sergeant in 1776 was beaten by Mr. Gunning Bedford for something that he did in Congress; which honorable body, by remaining in the capital of any state, must be ever exposed to the danger of jangling with the executive branch of it, and I always wish to obviate any possible jealousies between the continental and state governments. “Four years ago I was pretty generally acquainted with all the members of Congress, but now with very few of them. 1 have a slight acquaintance with Mr. Daniel Carroll, but know not any other delegate from Maryland, even by sight. Were I well acquainted with any of our delegates, I should have written to him on the subject; but I request you will show them all this letter and the enclosed. I transmit three copies to be by you given to any of your acquaintances among the eastern and southern delegates of Congress; and shall take it as a very great favor if you will candidly inform me whether you think Congress will accept, in case Maryland offers Annapolis, with substantial local powers. I am confident, from what I have heard from our assembly, that they would in such case be enacted, and granted with very little opposition. “From what I can learn, Annapolis is one of the most central places in the union in point of distance; and, though it is not in the relative situation of the different states, yet it would be but just that the inconveniences in attending Congress should be shared among the different states as equally as may be. The southern states have suffered more than any others by the ravages of the enemy, and are entitled to more consideration from those to the eastward than to be put to greater inconveniences than they, merely because they are unfortunately the minority. I have a better opinion of their patriotism and liberality of soul, than to suspect that they would be actuated by local selfish views, when it is their duty to promote the general good of the continent. “The constitution of Maryland being stable, agreeable to all ranks of its inhabitants, and opposite to every principle of anarchy and levelism, Congress would be more agree ably fixed in it than in Pennsylvania, where an unlimited democracy (the most horrid of all governments) prevails, and of course no one can be secure of personal safety under it. Annapolis being but a small place, Maryland could safely grant the Congress local and substantial powers in it, without missing them; whereas in Philadelphia they are ci phers, and cannot have the powers requisite to render them respectable, without injur ing the commerce of the place. And, to every thinking man on the continent, the prospect must be very disagreeable, when it is considered that congress may possibly be in danger of being mobbed, if they do not flatter the prejudices of the majority of the lower class of citizens, and the measures they may wish to be adopted, may not constantly be right and proper. “Our delegates can describe the situation of Annapolis, its advantages and disadvan tages. 1 will just observe, that under our old government, it was chiefly inhabited by men of fortune, who held lucrative posts, and the most eminent practising lawyers in the state; most of whom since the present revolution, not having the same inducements to con tinue there, have removed elsewhere; and a number of elegant houses are thereby in some measure rendered useless; which might be purchased by the ministers of finance, foreign affairs, war, and marine, and the other leading officers on the general civil estab lishment, much cheaper than they could be built in any part of the continent. The mar ket would be well supplied when there was a constant demand for provisions; and fish and oysters would be brought thither in great abundance, as well as all kinds of wild fowl. “I have scribbled a long letter to you, chiefly upon the motive of promoting the gen eral good, and therefore I am confident you will excuse a liberty I have taken, and an-
