April 11, 1783 165 swer candidly and fully as soon as leisure from your public duties will permit... Bland, Papers (Campbell), 2:95-97. For the Maryland assembly’s adoption of this position in late May, see Elias Boudinot to the States, June 10, 1783, note. 4 For letters received from John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Henry Laurens, rather than John Jay, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, this date, note 1. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dr. Tucker Philada. April 11th 1783 A confirmation (official) yesterday arrived here of the ratification of the Preliminary Articles of Peace between France, Spain & Eng land—which gives effect to those between England & the U. States of America—in consequence of which proclamation will this day be made by order of Congress for a Suspension of Hostilities. This has al ready been done in N. York without one Symptom of Approbation. The Public Prints will soon announce to you the Particulars—we have sent these to the Govr. God Bless you, Theok. Bland, Jr 1 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 Bland also wrote the following letter to George Weedon this date: “I have just time to tell you, that an official confirmation of the ratification of the pre liminaries between the French, Spanish, and English Courts, arrived here yesterday, and I believe a cessation of hostilities will be this day proclaimed, by order of Congress. The public prints will soon give you the rest.” Balch, Papers Relating to the Maryland Line, p. 207. Joseph Jones to James Hunter Dr. Sr. Philada. 11th Apr. 1783 I reed, your late favor inclosing some bills drawn upon Mr. W. Smith of Baltimore and protested by him. This Business is not within the ju risdiction of the Agent of Marine here or immediate measures wod. be taken for their payment. Monsr. Marbois who is the Consul general and agent of Marine informs me that if Poquet comes out from New York to this place which he expects he will do that upon his giving some instrument of indemnification the money shall be paid withot. returning the bills. As the packet has arrived at N. York from England with the preliminary Articles signed and a proclamation of the Kings suspending Hostilities (which were to cease on this coast the 3d of this month,) I imagine Poquet will soon be at liberty. Shod, he arrive here I will endeavour to get satisfaction for the Bills. Billy Miner has I sup-
