April 12, 1783 169 by your prudent & Zealous attention to afford her the earliest Infor mation of the glad Tidings of an Event the most glorious to her Fame as well as essential to her Interests. 1 Capt. Duquesne, whose conduct & despatch does him great honor, anounced to us in the first Instance the happy Issue of our negotiations. The Joy afforded to America on this Occasion was too great for utterance and you had the universal Thanks of the Friends of this Country. The early Intelligence saved our Mercantile Interest greatly, as the long cessation of News from our Ministers had shaken the Faith of many as to the Issue. The glorious struggle, blessed be God, is now over, and I am happy that you have so great a Share in her Laurels. Our worthy General is not the least sharer in the general Joy. We have now leisure I hope to turn our attention to consolidating the general Union & perfecting our Government. Congress are perfectly satisfied with your remaining in Europe, and I have the honor & Satisfaction of enclosing you a Copy of their Vote on this Occasion. 2 Congress are very sensible of the very obliging Conduct of his Ex cellency the Compte de Estaing in so readily & generously devoting the Triumph to the benevolent Purpose of being the bearer of the im portant Intelligence. As soon as Capt DuQuesne arrived, certified Copies of the Intelli gence was transmitted to Genl Carleton & admiral Digby—the last of whom most ungenerously affected to consider it as a design in Compt de Estaing to mislead him, while he was accomplishing some stroke in the west Indies. However he was in a few days convinced of his Error by the arrival of an English Packett. We are anticipating the Pleasure of your Arrival here with Anxiety. I take the liberty of inclosing copies of the Vote of Congress in Favour of Compte De’ Rochambeau, & of my Letter addressed to him on that occasion. My reason for this is, to beg the Favour of your endeavouring to know the reason for the Compte’s leaving America without taking the least Notice of it, or even answering my Letter. I do this merely in my private Character, for altho’ it has been noticed by the Members of Congress, yet Congress has made no Observations on it, and I men tioned it to you as a private Friend, who I know will be prudent on the Occasion, at the same time will satisfy my individual Curiosity. I add to the enclosed for your satisfaction some proceedings in the Army, occasioned by the last Efforts of the Enemies of this Country, to raise a Commotion. Their resolutions as well as the Generals Address, gave a finishing Stroke to the Character of our officers. They do them the utmost honor, and the General appears like himself. The Terms of Peace give universal Satisfaction except that no Time is mentioned for the american Merchts. paying their English Debts. Having the greatest part of their Estates in the public Funds, and hav ing suffered greatly by the depreciation of the money, inevitable ruin must be their Portion if they have not three or four Years to accom-
