170 April 12, 1783 plish the Business. This is a Matter of very considerable Consequences to which I hope our Ministers will pay attention in the definitive Treaty. This should also be an Object with France, as if not remedied, will throw our Merchts too absolutely into the Hands of the English Creditor. Shall I ask your Attention to this Subject if not too late as it will be adding greatly to the obligations, already laid on the Citizens of these States. I have the honor to be with every Sentimt of respect & Esteem, My d[ear] Marquiss &c FC (DLC: Boudinot Papers). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. Endorsed: “Private.” 1 For Lafayette’s February 5 letters to Boudinot to which this is a response, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 5:84—85; and JCC, 24:210—11. 2 For this April 10 resolve, see JCC, 24:234. Elias Boudinot to George Washington My dear Sir, Philadelphia 12th April 1783 You can only judge from your own feelings on this occasion, with what peculiar joy I congratulate your Excellency and the Army on a constitutional cessation of hostilities by the public Act of Congress, I have the honor to enclose. 1 Thus far we may truly say, that we have passed thro’ the wilderness by a series of Miracles, which nothing short of the over ruling Providence of God could ever have wrought. I most heartily reciprocate your Excellency’s good wishes on this oc casion, and am much obliged by your very polite letter of the 30th Ul timo. 2 By a vessel that arrived yesterday from France we received the offi cial copies of our accession to the cessation of hostilities; but altho’ this vessel sailed on the 4th of March our latest advices were of the 23d of January. We are just informed that there is a Packet in the River with public dispatches in 36 days from France. If any thing should turn up worthy of notice 1 will add it to this letter. Mrs. Boudinot and Miss Susan unite with me in the most affection ate compliments to Mrs. Washington and your Excellency, and are contemplating with great pleasure the prospect of a joyous interview on your return to your long wished for retreat. I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect & Esteem, Your Ex- cellencys Most Obedt & most Hble Servt Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Boudinot. 1 Boudinot undoubtedly enclosed a copy of the proclamation adopted by Congress on April 11, for which see JCC, 24:238-40, 25:984—85. 2 Washington’s March 30 letter to Boudinot is in PCC, item 152, 11:191-92; and Washington, 'Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:273.
