182 April 14, 1783 have breath I know you will rejoice & feel a divine pleasure in recount ing the interpositions of providence by which this great & wonderful revolution has been affected. Your health, Sir, I hope will be benefit- ted by the opening of the spring & in due time perfectly restored. You will not wonder, Sir, at the anxiety of your friends for your recovery, since for them your stay is so necessary tho for you indeed it might be great gain to depart. With my best compliments to Mrs. Perry, & wishing you every divine support, I am Revd. & dear Sir with much esteem, your obedt. huml g ervt Oliv. Ellsworth [RS.] I will thank you, Sir, to present my best respects to Capt. Grant & Son, if you have opportunity. RC (CtHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: “The Revd. Mr. Joseph Perry, East Windsor, Connecticut.” i Ellsworth had just resumed his seat in Congress on April l./CC, 24:222. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday April 14. [1783] The Committee on the report of Secretary of foreign affrs. reported as follows, Mr. Hamilton dissenting: 1 1. That it does not appear that Congress are any wise bound to go into the ratification proposed. “The Treaty” of which a ratification is to take place, as mentioned in the 6th of the provisional articles, is de scribed in the title of those articles to be “a Treaty of peace proposed to be concluded between the Crown of G. B and the said U. S. but which is not to be concluded until terms of peace shall be agreed upon between G. B. & France;” 2 The act to be ratified therefore is not the provl. articles themselves; but an act distinct, future, and event con tingent. Again altho’ the Declaratory act entered into on the 20th Jany. last, between the American & British Plenipotentiaries relative to a cessation of hostilities, seems to consider the contingency on which the provl. articles were suspended as having taken place, yet that act cannot itself be considered as the “Treaty of peace meant to be con- cluded["f, nor does it stipulate that either the provl. articles or the act itself should be ratified in America; it only engages that the U. S. shall cause hostilities to cease on their part, an engagement which was duly fulfilled by the Proclamation issued on the 11th instant—lastly it does not appear from the correspondence of the American Ministers, or from any other information either that such ratification was expected from the U. S. or intended on the part of G. B., still less that any ex change of mutual ratifications has been in contemplation.
