April 16, 1783 187 Richard Peters to Baron Steuben Dear Sir, 15th Api 1783 I wish you to be so good as to send me by the very first Opportunity your Opinion as to the Conduct of Nations so far as you are ac quainted with it in respect to Prisoners of War at a Peace. Can they be forced to go from the Country in which they were Captives if they choose to remain & of Course is it a Breach of the Treaty (where there is no express Stipulation) by Implication if Government taking no ac tive Measures to keep them do not interfere for their Delivery to the late Enemy. All Passports, Means of Transportation &c should be fur nished but our Treaty says Nothing more than that they should be set at Liberty & 1 do not see what Congress can do if the States admit any of them to be Citizens. I wish you to be so obliging as to furnish me with your Opinion as I believe you & I think alike & I want to corroborate my Sentiments by the Authority of yours. 1 I am in Haste, yrs afftely, R Peters RC (NHi: Steuben Papers). 1 In his April 22 reply to Peters, Steuben explained that “on the conclusion of peace, all persons are liberated; & without a particular agreement to the contrary, the Govern ment in whose hands they were, concern themselves no farther about the matter.” Pe ters Papers, PHi. Theodorick Bland to George Washington Sr Philadelphia April 16th 1783 I have been honord with your Excellencys two favors of the 31st Ul timo and the 4th Inst 1 —the latter accompanied with your full and ex plicit answer on the Subject on which I addressed your Excellency in my last at the request of the Committe. 2 It has been according to your desire communicated to Col. Hamilton and the other Members who compose the Committe confidentially and is now under consideration. We have conferred with the Superintendant of Finance, 3 and be as sured our utmost endeavors shall not be wanting to bring to a Speedy (and I hope happy conclusion) the objects Your Excellency has pointed to with so much clearness, candor & Energy. Confident I am that there is every disposition in Congress to Appre ciate the Services and sufferings of the Army. Unquestionably the most meritorious Class of Citizens in this long & at length, Successful Contest. I am not less persuaded in my own mind, that what depends on the States respectively to put the finishing hand to a complete compensation of their long and meritorious Services and Sufferings will be cheerfully complied with; But these Sr. are the Expectations or
