190 April 16, 1783 first months pay from a want of knowledge of the resources which now actually exist under your controul, which have not been already antici pated either by Engagements for subsisting the army or for other pur poses, and what will be the amount of the Continental Stores which may with propriety be disposed of they wd. be glad to be inform’d in as full and explicit a manner as your information on those points will admit. The Committee think it necessary to acquaint you 1st further that in a Conference they have held with the Secy, at War who is just return’d from Camp that it is the wish of the officers in General to re ceive orders for the two Months Pay on the Receivers of their respec tive States for the payment of which they are willing to run the Chance as they express themselves. I have the Honor to be with perfect Respect, by order of the Com mittee, Sir, your most obedient Servant (Sign’d) Theok. Bland 2 Tr (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 Before receiving Morris’ letter, the committee had met with the superintendent on the 9th “relative to certain propositions contained in Genl. Washington’s letter to Colo Bland,” for which see Committee of Congress to Washington, March 25, 1783, note 5. Although Morris took the matter under advisement, he reported on the 14th that it was “utterly impractible” to raise the estimated $750,000 needed for three months pay, given the poor performance of the states in meeting their obligations, and that the only real alternative was “to risk a large Paper Anticipation.” While Morris considered “issu ing my Notes to the required amount,” he did not think he should be expected to put himself in “so desperate a Situation.” See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:682-83, 701-2. 2 Bland also had “a Long Conference” with Morris this day, after which the superin tendent prepared a letter informing the committee that he did not expect to command resources “more than sufficient to comply with the engagements already taken as they fall due.” See ibid., pp. 707, 711-12. See also the preceding entry. Oliver Ellsworth to Abigail Ellsworth Dear Nabby, Philadelphia, Apr. 16, 1783 I wrote you two days ago 1 & have little now to add. I am yet without information from home, which you will easily believe I am extreemly anxious & impatient to receive. The enclosed newspaper shows that they are much less satisfied with the Peace in Great Britain than we are & they have much less rea son to be—after you have read it I wish you to send it with my compli ments to Mr. Hinsdale to whom I know it will be highly amusing. All our prisoners in the hands of the British are set at liberty—& an order yesterday passed in Congress to release all the British prisoners in our hands. I expect the British will in a few weeks leave New York & that our Army will then be disbanded. The Proclamation of peace is to be
