April 16, 1783 193 most heartily do, & what adds to this happy & glorious event, is that we have obtained all that cou’d reasonably be expected. I don’t know any one man, that I think, this Country is under greater obligations to than our worthy friend Mr. J. Adams, I am not unacquainted with the situation he has been in, in his negociations both in Holland & France, & I suspect you are not altogether a stranger to the difficulties he has had to encounter; we may expect his return in June next, ’tho’ Congress have not yet accepted his resignation. Mr. Laurens & Mr. Dana has leave to return at their request, Mr. Jefferson is not to pro ceed. Two days since I observed a letter directed to Dr. Lee, which di rection I suppos’d to be in your hand writing & I immediately for warded it to him, as the Dr. is returned home. I am, &c FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand ol Samuel Hoken. 1 Presumably Gordon’s promised history of the American Revolution, which was eventually published in four volumes under the title The History of the Rise, Progress, and Establishment, of the Independence of the United States of America.... (London: Printed for the Author, 1788). Samuel Holten to Joseph Read Sir, Philada. Api. 16th, 1783. The particular respect shown me when at your house, on my Journey, is not forgot by me, & for which I consider myself under obligations. I have now oppertunity to congratulate you, as I wish to do every sin cere friend to Our Country, on the return of Peace, & what adds to this happy & glorious event, is that we have obtained all that could reason ably have been expected; but we have yet difficulties to encounter, a large national debt & but little money to pay, or funds to secure pay ment. It is my opinion, that imposts & excises must be complied with, for a given time. The common mode of taxation will not answer the purpose, the land is too high taxed already, the Small farmers can’t live & pay their taxes, & it wou’d be the want of policy if (not unjust) in our present circumstances, to drive the good people to pay what they are not able & can’t do injustice to their families, & after they have so lately made so many exertions against the Common enemy. We have no intelligence here that deserves your notice, more than what is contained in the public prints. I am, with great respect, your most obedient servant. FC (DLC: Samuel Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Addressed: “Colo. Joseph Reed.” Apparentlyjoseph Read of Uxbridge, Mass., formerly colonel of the 13th Continental regiment of the Massachusetts Line.
