194 April 16, 1783 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday April 16th. [1783] Mr. Hamilton acknowledged that he began to view the obligation of the pro [visiona]! Treaty in a different light and in consequence wished to vary the direction to the Commander in cheif as his motion on the Journal states. 1 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:466. 1 For the failure of Hamilton’s motion this day, see JCC, 24:252-53. For his explana tion of the two resolutions Congress had adopted the 15th “relative to the restoration of the British Prisoners and to making arrangements for the surrender of the posts in the possession of the British,” see Hamilton to Washington, April 15. See also Madison’s Notes, April 14 and 15, 1783. North Carolina Delegates to Congress April the 16th 1783 The undersigned delegates in Congress from the State of North- Carolina beg leave to represent, that some time in the year 1780 appli cation was made by the honourable Abner Nash esquire then Gover nor of the State of North-Carolina to the British Commandant at Charlestown for leave to send cloathing and other articles which might be acceptable and afford relief to the North-Carolina prisoners who were confined there; That leave for that purpose was obtained from General Patterson the then British Commandant as appears by two letters which we have the honour to lay before Congress. That in consequence of such permission a Flag schooner, called the Adventure, loaded with thirty six hogsheads of tobacco and sundry other articles, having on board some British prisoners of war, sailed from Beaufort in North Carolina on the 9th of June 1781 for Charlestown (This was the third vessel that had been sent with similar supplies the two first were properly recieved) That on the 20 of the said month, near the bar of Charlestown, the said Schooner was seized by a British ship of war, the Cormorant; and sent into the harbour no regard being paid to the Flag under which she sailed nor the permis sion that had been granted; and altho complaint thereof was made to the Commandant (who we believe on enquiry will be found to have highly disapproved the seizure) yet no part of the Schooner or her cargo was recovered. The Delegates are persuaded that by the original and other authen ticated papers which they have the honour to lay before Congress 1 it will fully appear that the whole proceedings in this business were, on the part of the State, fair and Candid incapable of any possible con-
