April 17, 1783 195 struction that could violate the honour of a Flag or the faith of a State, and that nothing could have been intended but what was pro fessed, The relief of distressed prisoners, that too, in the manner which had been agreed on. Wherefore the Delegates, in persuance of their instructions, re quest, that Congress would be pleased to direct the Secretary for for eign affairs to forward the necessary documents to the British General and Admiral at New York and Claim compensation for the said vessel and cargo. 2 Benjamin Hawkins Hu Williamson RC (DNA: PCC, item 43). Written by Hawkins and signed by Hawkins and Williamson. Endorsed: “Representation of the Delegates of No. Carolina respectg a flag sent by the State to Charlestown & Captured by the Cormorant. Laid before Congress April 16th 1783—referred to Mr Gorham, Mr Fitzsimmons, Mr Holten. Acted on May 1st 1783.” 1 These eleven documents pertaining to the seizure of the Endeavour, not Adventure as stated by Hawkins, are in PCC, item 76, fols. 7-35. 2 For the disposition of this case, see JCC, 24:318; and North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Martin, June 17, 1783. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My Dear Sir, Philadelphia Aprill 17th 1783 I sent you by an Express 1 our Proclamation for the Cessation of Hostilities, which is proclaimed here in Form this Day. The Proclama tion for Peace at New York you mention, was no more. Altho’ Peace is really taken Place yet it cannot be proclaimed till we recieve the defini tive Treaty, which we expect every Day. Last Night we had advices of a Vessel being arrived at Boston from France in 20 Days, perhaps we may have News by her. We also expect to hear in a few Days from Sr. Guy when he is to leave NYork. You will percieve that the King of Britain in his Answer to the address of the Lords, says he is deter mined faithfully to execute every article of the Treaty. I fancy all the british Prisoners will be discharged this week. I have not heard from Elisha but rejoice in his having an addition to his family, altho’ I think the Family rage of Girls, very Extraordinary. 2 I also join with her ExcyA & the rest of the Family in sincerely congrat ulating you on the happy success you have met with in the addition to your Family, especially as it is of the Male kind, and as all rejoicings are put off till the definitive Treaty, beg you will not trouble Martin to bring it with him till then—but on second Thought, as I know your fondness for Peace, and the great desire you will have to testify some external signs of Joy and how difficult that is with an empty concavity, and that there is no filling vacuums without materials, which are very difficult to be obtained at the ridge, I beg you will in my Name, but for your own Use, adorn your Board with all the Male & Female gen-
