196 April 17, 1783 eration, of Calves, Pig’s, devouring Sows, Birds, Fowls & Fishes (if any are yet left from the voracious Jaws of your inveterate Enemies) and once in a Way, by Chance, as a great rarity rejoice in the Good Things of this Life, that the glorious Epoch may be remembered throout the great Swamp as long as the Ridge shall Endure. Your last Letter has lessened your Character here greatly as being neither a Farmer, nor Hog Raiser. Her E. having as she says predicted all those dreadfull Evills that have happened from your want of Skill, Knowledge & Understanding in the Trade, Art & Mystery of Pig Feed ing, tho’ she fully & plainly anounced the possibility, probability & Certainty of the prolific Nature of the female unlawful Animal whereby you might have added roasters to your joy on the day of your eating & drinking in your younger Brothers House. I hope you wont sell the old Stack of Hay to Mr Van Zandt, as it will be worth haling to Morris Town & only decieve him. 1 would not let Mr B. have it without the Cash—it had better be fed out in the dung yard. He once charged me with Dicks borrowing a Yoke of his & breaking the wood part of it, which might have been made in half a Day & never cost more than 4 or 5/—but at the same time having borrowed our large Iron Kettle & broke off one of the feet, on being told if I paid for one, he must pay for the other, I never heard more of it—and the payment in Hay, never thought of untill this Occasion, as it was well [... ] I never be fore this winter had Hay to dispose of, and [that] was three Years ago. I would rather you should delay renting the Lott a few days, then rent it to Lewis unless he would pay the rent at once. May be you may yet stay there all Summer, and want it yourself. You can however mention the possibility & that rather than rent it on any uncertainty you will keep it. Perhaps Mrs. Morton may rent or sell her Farm, & then it would suit the Purchaser better than any body. Sister remains here very low, having had a relapse. As to the Horses I wish to sell them all, as I shall purchase a pair here to go home with & Horses are becoming cheap. I wish to know your determination, about going to N Rochelle that Hanny may prepare to go to the Ridge in Time. I am Dr Sir, Yours &c RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See Boudinot to Elisha Boudinot, April 22, 1783, note. 3 That is, Boudinot’s wife, Hannah.
