April 17, 1783 197 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday April 17th [1783], Mr. M[adison] with the permission of the Come, on Revenue, re ported the following clause to be added to the 10 in the first report 1 viz “And to the end that convenient provision may be made for deter mining in all such cases, how far the expences may have been rea sonable, as well with respect to the object thereof as to the means for accomplishing it, thirteen Commissioners namely one out of each State, shall be appointed by Congress, any seven of whom (having first taken an oath for the faithful & impartial execution of their trust) who shall concur in the same opinion, shall be empowered to determine finally on the reasonableness of all claims for expences incurred by particular States as aforesaid: And in order that such de terminations may be expedited as much as possible, the Commis sioners now in appointment for adjusting accts, between the U. S. and individual States, shall be instructed to examine all such claims & report to Congs, such of them as shall be supported by satisfactory proofs, distinguishing in their reports the objects and measures in which the expences shall have been incurred; provided that no bal ances which may be found due under this regulation or the Resolu tions of the day of shall be deducted out of the preceding Revenues; but shall be discharged by separate requisitions to be made on the States for that purpose.” In support of this proposition it was argued that in a general provi sion for public debts and public tranquility, satisfactory measures ought to be taken on a point wch. many of the States had so much at heart, & which they wd. not separate from the other matters proposed by Congress: that the nature of the business was unfit for the decision of Congs, who brought with them the spirit of advocates rather than of Judges, and besides required more time than could be spared for it. On the opposite side some contended that the accts, between U. S. & particular States sd. not be made in any manner to encumber those between the former and private persons—Others thought that Congs, could not delegate to Comrs. a power of allowing claims for which the Confedon. reqd. nine States—Others were unwilling to open so wide a door for claims on the Common Treasury. On the question Masts, divided, Cont. ay, R. Id. no, N.Y. no, NJ. no, Pa. no, Maryd. no, Va. ay, N.C. no, S.C. no.
