202 April 22, 1783 As to the Lands, I can see no need to sell them unless they will bring at least 40/ per Acre, some of them I would not take under £10 per Acre. They are Lands of the highest Quality. When you want the Cash I have a number of Bonds & Mortgages of Ld. Drummonds that I will call in & pay your Debt. As to the Wines, they will be all confis cated and your only remedy will be an Application to the Legislature on the circumstances of the Case, and these are not favourable, as they are the Property of Thompson. You had best have them assigned to you in Security for the Debt & Ship them immediately to this City, before the Evacuation. Auth can do this in your Name—and you can be here to recieve them. I have got a Letter from Marsden also. I wish to see you on his Acct. If you go in, Permission must be had from Govr Livingston. If you should go, you had best see me first. Sir Guy has applied to Congress to send in Commrs. to superintend the evacu ation &c as he is preparing. 1 He wishes to have it known that the Arti cles of the Peace is fully complied with. Mr. Forman is in New York. If you purchase a Vessel she must be sent away previous to the Evacua tion. I wish Cong, was able to get a Pipe a piece &c.—but they think they do great Things to get good Cyder. As to my Brother C. I believe it hurts the finer strings of his Heart to see too much Luxury. A Vessel arrived here express from France this day. Her Passage 35 Days; but brings no News that has come to hand as yet. , Mrs. B. & S. join in Love &c. Patty sends her Love & Duty tho greatly mortified that she does not hear from you. Am Dr Sir, Yours Afftly, ® [PS.] Mrs. B. sent by Jacob Morton some few Things for Prince as he is not to be canonized. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 An April 14 letter from Sir Guy Carleton to Robert R. Livingston—recommending the appointment of commissioners to assist in implementing “the seventh article of the Provisional Treaty” concerning the evacuation of New York “without causing any de struction, or carrying away any negroes or other property of the American inhabi tants”—was referred to a committee of Congress this day. Its recommendauon to refer the matter to the commander-in-chief to “take such measures... as to him shall seem expedient”—was adopted April 24. As a meeting between Washington and Carleton had already been scheduled for May 6, the subject was merely placed on the agenda of that conference, and in the aftermath Washington appointed Egbert Benson Daniel Parker, and William Stephens Smith “to carry fully into execution, the [April 24] Instructions of Congress.” See JCC, 24:274; PCC, item 78, 6:171-73; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:377; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:402-14. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. Api. 22. 1783. Your favor of the 14 inst. written on the Susquehanna with the sev eral letters inclosed were safely delivered to me. I did not fail to pre-
