April 23, 1783 207 you all in their power. As for my own part I can only wish you well, & in this point of duty I certainly am not deficient. Our Hartford acquaintance here I see almost every day—they are all well & frequently enquiring after you, & it will be a great pleasure to them I doubt not to have so good an account of you as I hope it will soon be in my power to give them. I went last evening to Mr. Laws singing entertainment which was per formed before a great concourse of people assembled upon a general invitation. The performance was decent & a considerable improvement on the singing here; but not equal to what we have in many parishes in Connecticut. He has not met with proper encouragement—his schol- lars are but few—the young folks here are more fond of dancing than singing—& many of the old ones who care any thing about publick wor ship are alarmed at the Idea of admitting new tunes & a brisker air. By the time this reaches you I suppose you will begin to think of gar dening. Bissel with a little of your direction will I dare say well per form all that is necessary in that branch. Let him put a little manure on the beads he makes in the new ground & in the hills he plants. The few seeds I sent I hope you have reed. If the time I spend in walk ing for my health could be employed in making you an elegant gar den it would please me much better. Most of the Tories are gone from New York to the cold region of Nova Scotia which their royal master has provided for them. The British Troops are also beginning to ship their effects & will I hope in a few weeks take their final leave of us. I can hardly realize it that the war is over, tho’ I had long expected it & from my knowledge of the State of publick affairs was convinced that the war could not continue much longer. You will remember me to mother & all other friends & beleive me to be with the tenderest affection your O.E. RC (Ct: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 In a May 7 letter to Abigail, Ellsworth wrote of his joy on learning of the birth of their son: “I hope to hear it yet once more, & that from under your own hand, & that you will tell me also something about this new comer, how he looks & how he conducts. I hope he will not prove very troublesome especially nights, & that I shall find him a very good boy when I come. As to my other poor little boy I think much about him & more so as I suppose you are obliged pretty much to neglect him. If I was at home I should be very happy to divide the babies with you, at least the trouble of taking care of them for I fear you have more than your hands full.” Ellsworth Papers, CtHi. Oliver Ellsworth to Oliver Wolcott Dear Sir, Philadelphia April 23d. 1783. I hope you got safe home, & found your family well; & your self also in better health than is possible to be enjoyed in the fog of this city.
