208 April 23, 1783 Your recess from business, after long confinement, must, I think, af- foard you some pleasure, & to see the fruits of your labors, peace & in dependance, much more. Congress, since you left it, has ratifyed the provisional treaty & or dered the prisoners to be released, & also that the publick Horses & other now useless property be sold; & have passd the report on rev enue with the alteration of the duty on Salt to 5 Per Ct. & the Duty on all wines, except Mideira which stands at 12/90, to 6/90 of a Dollar. We hear nothing more yet of the Definitive Treaty. Late private letters from Europe mention that preliminaries were not signed by the Dutch, but that they had at last reed, such offers from the british as the french court advised them to accept & there was no doubt but they would, also that they had appointed a Mr Van Bercle, their Am bassador to these States. A letter has been reed, from Mr. Dana at Pe tersburg of the 15th of Jany. He had not then assumed a publick character nor made any advances towards a treaty of commerce, nor indeed could make any to purpose till he should first pave the way according to the nigardly custom of that court, with about £10,000 Sterlg in presents to her ministers. He also thot. it very probable that a war would take place between Russia & the Porte, on account of the Khan of the Crimea who had been deposed by the Tartars of that Independancy. Sir Guy Carleton has written to Congress to appoint a person to at tend at N York to see the 7th article of the treaty relating to American property duly observed, as he expects soon to begin an embarcation. The Tories are mostly gone from there to Nova-Scotia, cursing their King all the way. I enclose you some newspapers & two letters brot. for you by the last eastern post. Col. Dyer I suppose is well—with Mrs. Trumbul & his new Span 1 & Doct. Holton as an aid, he set off last Saturday for an air ing to Wilmington & is not yet returned. I shall be happy to hear from you. With Compliments to Mrs. Wol cott & your two Daughters, I am, Dear Sir, with much esteem, your obedt. Huml. Servt. Oliv Ellsworth RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Jr., Papers). 1 That is, a pair of horses. OKI). Arthur Lee to Abigail Adams Dear Madam, In Congress April 23d. 1783 I arrivd in Philadelphia this day 1 & had the honor of receiving your Commands of the 9th. Tho’ we were exceedingly desirous of the assi- tance of Mr. Adams in what yet remains to be done in Europe; yet his
