April 23, 1783 209 Letters were so pressing, that the Committee to whom they were re- ferrd coud not resist reporting in favor of his resignation. Congress have not yet considerd that report; but I think, Madam, you may rely upon it, that leave will be given as he requests. 2 I shall participate with you in the pleasure of his return, after so long a sacrifice as he has made to the peace & prosperity of His Coun try. Her gratitude will I hope never forget, the essential services he has renderd. A french frigate, that left France, the beginning of March, arrivd here two days since; but did not bring one line for Congress. We learn however, that the general Treaty was not then settled. I have the honor to be with the truest sentiments of respect & es teem, Dear Madam, Yr. most Obedt. & most humbl. Servt. Arthur Lee RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For Lee’s recent trip to Virginia and return to Philadelphia, see James Madison to Edmund Randolph, April 1, 1783, note 5. 2 Congress had considered the committee’s report on April 1, but had postponed ac cepting John Adams’ resignation, for which see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, April 1, note 7. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday April 23. [1783] 1 The resolution permitting the soldiers to retain their arms was passed at the recommendation of Genl. Washington. See letter in the files. 2 The resolution for granting furloughs or discharges was a compro mise 3 between those who wished to get rid of the expence of keeping the men in the field, and those, who thought it impolitic to disband the army whilst the British remained in the U. S. 4 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:486. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote: “Teus Api. 22, see Journal.” 2 That is, Washington’s April 18 letter to Congress recommending that the “non Commissd Officers and Soldiers [be permitted] to take with them as their own property, and as a Gratuity, the Arms and Accoutrements they now hold,” which is in PCC, item 152, 11:219-226; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:330-34. 3 For the adoption of these resolutions, see JCC, 24:269-70. See also Madison’s Notes, May 20, 1783. 4 Following this paragraph, Madison made only the following brief entries in his notes before May 5. “Api. 24. See Journal. “Friday 25 Api. {No Congress.) “Saturday April 26. Address to States passed nem. con. [It was drawn up by Mr. Madi son: The address to Rd. Isd. referred to as No. 2 had been drawn up by Mr. Hamilton.] “The writer of these notes absent till Monday May 5th.” It is clear from the physical evidence that the remarks printed here in brackets con cerning the “Address” to the states were inserted by Madison at a later date.
