April 23, 1783 211 1 See ibid., p. 155; and JCC, 24:241-43. 2 On April 24 Congress did refer Sir Guy Carleton’s April 14 letter to General Wash ington with the directive “that he take such measures for carrying into effect the several matters therein mentioned, as to him shall seem expedient.”/CC, 24:274. 3 Egbert Benson, acting under instructions from Governor Clinton, had journeyed to Philadelphia to brief the New York delegates on his recent conference with Sir Guy Carleton concerning the evacuation of New York City. Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:134-35, 139-44. 4 Floyd also wrote another letter to Clinton this date, of which only the following ex tract survives: “The Principle part of the Business which particularly kept me here so long is now got through [i.e., the revenue plan adopted April 7S], and will in a few days be officially transmitted to your Excellency by the President.” Burnett, Letters, 7:142n. And on April 29, just before leaving Philadelphia, he wrote the following note to Clinton: “Please to pay unto Mr. Egbert Benson the Sum of One hundred and fifty Dollars and Charge the Same to the account of Sir your most Obedt. and humble Servt., Wm. Floyd.” Doheny Collection, CCamarSJ. Richard Peters to Baron Steuben My dear Sir 23d Api. 1783. I have received your Plan 1 & so far as I have had Time to attend to it I am much pleased with it. I have only given it a cursory reading & there being a Comittee to consider of Peace Arrangements I have taken the Liberty to give your Scheme to a Member of that Commit tee. 2 This Gentleman will make a discreet Use of it & return it to me. I hope you will not be displeased with my Conduct. I fear there will be much Difficulty in the Business of the Army as our Means of Sending them Home satisfied are small tho our Wishes are favourable & sincere. Our Circumstances afford an odd Contrast to those we have heretofore experienced. The Difficulty which hereto fore oppress’d us was how to raise an Army. The one which now em barrasses is how to dissolve it. Every thing Congress can do for the Sat isfaction of our deserving Soldiers will be done. But an empty Purse is a Bar to the Execution of the best Intentions. We have just under Con sideration a Plan for establishing a Mint. All we want to put it in Exe cution is the necessary Metal. But this you will no Doubt think a trifling Impediment. Justice to our Creditors & alacrity in paying Taxes are the best Mines we can spring. But I fear we have not yet found the Vein in which those precious Ores are lodged. I have no material News. A Frigate arrived yesterday from France but she brings Nothing but some Communications about Business except an Account from the French Ministry that the Definitive Treaty is in Train the Prelimi naries being transmitted to the mediating Powers more by Way of Compliment than from any Apprehensions of Difficulties flowing from them. On the contrary—the Compte de Vergennes writes to Monsr la Luzerne that no Obstacles will be in the Way of a happy Con-
