212 April 23, 1783 elusion of the great Work. Holland had not concluded her Treaty the 24th of Feby but Matters were in the fairest Train of adjustment. Yours very affectionately, Richard Peters RC (NHi: Steuben Papers). 1 For Steuben’s “Projet” and “Observations Generales” on the establishment of mili tary academies, see PCC, item 38, fols. 443-67. In the undated letter to Peters enclosing the plan, Steuben explained that he had been prompted to draft it as a result of a query from General Washington, soliciting his “sentiments on a peace establishment,” in re sponse to a letter from Alexander Hamilton, for which see Committee of Congress to Washington, April 9, 1783; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:315-16. The plan Steuben sent to Washington on April 21 is in the Washington Papers, DLC, for an analy sis of which see John M. Palmer, General von Steuben (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1937), pp. 308—10. 2 This committee, mentioned in the preceding note, consisted of Alexander Hamil ton, chairman, Oliver Ellsworth, James Madison, Samuel Osgood, and James Wilson. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia April 23d. 1783. Congress on the 18th instant completed their Resolution for recom mending to the several States to pass Laws for granting an Impost, an Excise, and to change an Article of the Confederation—a Copy of which we do ourselves the Honor to enclose. 1 To produce this in its present Form has been a Work of Time. It has engaged the Attention of Congress chiefly, since the commencement of the Year everything has been suggested and done to endeavor to take off the Objections, and render it palable to the several States which could be done consistently with a fixed Determination of preserving to Congress a Power to Collect and Appropriate the Revenues; the latter is restrained to particular Objects, and the whole limited as to Time. It would have been less exceptionable to us, had the Officers for collecting the Revenues been under the Controul as well as the Ap pointment of the State; And we conceive the Appointment of Offi cers for Twenty-five Years incompatible with the Constitution of the State, which requires all Officers to be chosen annually. We are also at a loss to reconcile the Idea of Appointing Officers; which when made immediately become independent of their Makers, with the Principles of Liberty. But we are happy that it will be submitted to the Consideration of an Assembly, whose Deliberations on former Occasions have been marked with wisdom, and discovered a thorough knowledge of their Constitutional Rights, as a most striking and honorable Testimony of which we appeal to the difference between the present and former Resolution on this Subject.
