April 23, 1783 213 If it should be the Opinion of the Assembly to adopt the Resolution generally, we take the Liberty to mention that a Deviation so far as re lates to the Controul of the Officers may be made, with a probability of its being acquisced in—by Congress; and if this was to be done in the New-England States, it would be a grand additional guard to the Rights of the States—a matter of the highest Importance, and which requires to be kept in constant view. During the Time the Resolution was maturating, a Land-Tax of 6/, 3/ and 1/6 per hundred Acres was proposed and much contended for to make a part of the Act, but it met with such warm Opposition from the Western and largely Landed States, as prevented its being in serted and the Delegates from some of them explicitly declared that they never would consent to a Land Tax of any kind, but what should be to their own separate Advantage. The Affair of the Western Lands is a Subject which begs to force the Attention of Congress. Memorials for Grants have been already pre sented, it must be necessary therefore soon to ascertain the Line be tween the United States, and the individual States. Virginia yet continues her tender to cede the Land North of Ohio with some restrictions and Conditions. And We expect Congress will Accept it. The Massachusetts and Connecticut States will be again addressed on the Subject of Ces sions, and also the Carolina’s. Georgia is curtailed by the Treaty in favor of Spain so as to be able to spare little or none of her territorial Claim. The definitive Treaty has not yet arrived; several matters are before Committees relative to Arrangements which are deemed necessary to adopt upon its Arrival—particularly the forming Treaties with the In dians (who have lately been troublesome on the Frontiers, and have kill’d & taken about Thirty of the Inhabitants near Fort Pitt) and the fixing Military and naval Establishments during a Peace. This last is a very important matter, and of which we shall give the earliest Advice, as soon as the Report is given in. The disbanding the Army, is a matter of great Consequence. Those inlisted during the War, are already impatient to be discharged. The want of Money in the public Treasury to satisfy their moderate Claims on being discharged is a perplexing Circumstance, and throws Congress into a very disagreeable Dilemma, and must cause them un avoidably to incur very considerable extra Expences. However, we have reason to rely on the wisdom and goodness of that directing Hand, which has hitherto led through every gloom, re moved every difficulty, and at length crown’d our Efforts and our wishes with Liberty and Independence to guide and direct us thro’ the present puzzling mazes in which we are involved. We are with the highest respect for your Excellency & the Honor able Assembly, Your Excellency’s Very humble servants, John Collins Jona Arnold
