214 April 24, 1783 RC (R-Ar Letters to Governors). In a clerical hand and signed by Collins and Arnold. 1 JCC, 24:256-63. See also Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783. John Francis Mercer to Daniel Morgan Dear General Philadelphia April 24th. 1783. Colo. Wood dissapointed me & left Town without my answer to the favor which you did me the honor to write me some time since, & the casual conveyances which chance offers to your part of the Country have not compensated for his neglect. The change in our circumstances which the late pacification has made, will now permit the Secretary of War to carry into immediate Execution a Resolve of Congress directing him to furnish the medals, voted to those whose distinguished merit has drawn that mark of Ap plause & gratitude from their Country during the late War. 1 You may depend on my attention to yours, & if I have any talents at (which by the way I doubt extremely) it shall be aided by the assistance of those, whose imagination I esteem as elegant as correct & I hope will eventu ally produce what ought to equal your expectation from the hands you have committed it to, if it does not merit your approbation. A late communication from the Comte de Vergennes, gives us every reason to expect a speedy completion of the definitive Treaty. The paper however which I do myself the honor to enclose contains a very interesting debate. You will observe that the supplies are voted for the ensuing year upon the War establishment, & it is plainly to be discov ered that no orders had been sent to Sr. Guy Carleton for the evacua tion of NYork, on the 3d of March. This corroborating suspicions which a studied ambiguity of expression & marked reserve in the com munications of that Officer had before suggested—it will become a very serious step our compliance with the stipulations of the provi sional Treaty on our part, particularly that Article which directs the liberation of Prisoners, the performance of which Sr. Guy presses with incessant ardor. The reinforcement of so formidable a force as they now hold in the heart of our Country with 6 or 8000 Men, woud be a perilous measure in the present disorder’d nay distracted state of our political systems. If we find that they hover over us to seize the first advantage which the paroxisms of dissapointment & disgust will occasion, it will then require every exertion of the real patriots to strengthen the hands of Government relaxed to a degree that borders on anarchy. The Councils of the United States are devoted to the grand objects of satisfying the demands of the Army & those public Creditors whose Zeal & confidence have animated them to exertions ruinous to themselves altho’ contributing to the preservation of Amer ica. If they are properly supported, Union & harmony may spring
