216 April 28, 1783 I have the Honor of inclosing a Letter from the Commander in Chief,2 which he has committed to my Care. We are in daily and anx ious Expectation of the Definitive Treaty, having been a long time without advices from our ministers abroad, our last Letters being dated in February. The terms of Peace give universal Satisfaction here, except the arti cle relative to English Debts, remaining silent, as to the time allowed our Citizens to make the payments. The situation of our Country— The property of the Whigs being in the Public Funds, not a farthing of which can be had—The great Losses from the depreciated money, and the stagnation of Trade for years past—make it absolutely neces sary that three or four years should be allowed, for this purpose, on giving security for the Debts. If an immediate payment should be re quired, it will cast our Merchants so entirely into the power of the British Creditors as to be very injurious to the interests of France. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect & Esteem, Your Ex cellency’s Most Obedt & very Hble Sert, Elias Boudinot RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Boudinot. I That is, Matthias Ogden, colonel of the First New Jersey Regiment, whose April 16 request for “leave to go to Europe” had been granted by Congress on April 21. See JCC, 24:263; and PCC, item 78, 17:353-56. 2 For Washington’s April 23 letter to Franklin, introducing Claude, baron de L’Estrade, who had served with the French forces at Yorktown, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:354-56. Daniel Carroll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Dear sr. Pha. Api. 28th. 1783 Your favor of the 25th Instant is just come to hand—please to apply to Mr Calhoun for yr Shoes to whom I shall forward them by next Wednesdays Stage. By this opportunity I have requested the G & C to apply for £150 in the manner you have mentiond. I flatter myself means may be procur’d on my return for what may remain due on the order. Measures are taking for a supply of three months pay to the Army— which I think promise success as the financier will remain I Believe in office untill the arrangements for that purpose are made & com- pleated. The 6 Milin of Livres and more are anticipated. The State in my opinion would suffer a material injury, if the System of each State paying their own line, was adopted. It is now certain we have been much overrated. But there are still more material objections. An Ad dress is agreed to by Congress to accompany the System of finance. It will probably be down the beginning of next week—to that I beg leave to refer you. 1
