April, 1783 225 and have urged that Instructions should be given to enter into no treaty nor even Conversation on the Subject. Dana might have fin ish’d a very advantageous one long ago, but for the French Minister, whom he was bound to obey. Every opposition from the same quarter was made to Mr. Adams in Holland, and it was their Policy which so exceedingly embarrassed Mr. Jay at the Court of Madrid. In a word, it is clear, by the advices from all our Ministers, except Dr. F that they oppose our Connection with any power but themselves. They meant to save us, but it was to themselves and for their own use. We are now told that they are justly entitled to a Monopoly of our To bacco Trade—that ‘tis the smallest Compensation we can make for their kindness and their Expence in saving us—and that their Farmers have made Arrangements, counting on the Benefits to arise from this exclusive Trade. But shall we give ourselves up to the Devil in this manner? Shall we neglect to avail ourselves of the Advantages within our Reach? Shall the Great Council of America discover less knowledge and less Virtue than their Servants have done in every line and every Character? Shall they at this stage of the business be the first to betray or relinquish the Interest of their Country? God forbid! For the honor of America, I hope it cannot happen. Our true Interest consists in avoiding too close a Connection with any Nation, and by pacific perseverance to derive commercial Benefits from all. And I trust there is still a Major ity in Congress who think with me, and who, preferring the Interest of this Country, to that of any other, will pursue those measures that promise the advancement of it. 1 Tr (PRO: C.O. 5, 110:205-10; and P.R.O. 30/55 [Carleton, or British Headquarters, Pa pers], No. 8492). This letter was sent (with extracts of three others) by Sir Guy Carleton to Lord North in a letter of August 1, 1783. Carleton also sent a similar one of August 5 (apparently from Higginson to Nathaniel Gorham) to Lord North on August 29. Al though the British had captured a number of letters from congressional delegates dur ing the war which were transmitted to England, these five were probably not inter cepted but supplied by the writer. They were written over a period of four months, and share a strongly pro-British and anti-French point of view suggesting common author ship, one that is almost precisely mirrored in Higginson’s letter to Theophilus Parsons of April 7-10? 1783. The letters enclosed in Carleton’s August 1 letter to North are printed in this volume under the heading Stephen Higginson? to Unknown. The first three extracts are dated only “April,” “May," and “May.” The fourth, dated July 21, 1783, concludes with the following arresting observation that makes strikingly clear Higgin son’s frustration with French influence in America and determination to help Ameri cans realize that their future interest lay in restoring good relations with Britain. “The Interest of America and Britain are so clearly one in my mind, that their joint Efforts should be exerted in opposition to the French. Without this, there is great Danger that, thro’ the medium of unprincipled Individuals in the States, the Interest of America and Britain will be highly injured. I should not therefore hesitate at taking an active part in concert with them, so far as our Interest and theirs should coincide.” 1 For the next in this series of letters that Carleton sent to North, see Higginson? to Unknown, May 1783.
