226 May 4, 1783 Thomas FitzSimons to John Dickinson Sir, May 4. 1783 I have the honor to hand to Councill an Act of Congress passed the 1st Inst. & I hope in a few days, other Measures will be adopted to give farther satisfaction to the state upon Indian-Affairs. 1 I have the honor to be, Yr Excellys Mo Obdt hble servt, Thos. FitzSimons RC (NN: United States Congress Collection). 1 President Dickinson had directed Pennsylvania’s delegates on April 3 to urge Congress to make peace “without loss of time ... with all the Indian nations,” and, in re sponse to continued reports of casualties incurred in clashes with the Indians on the state’s frontiers, he repeated the instruction on April 28. For Dickinson’s letters, see PCC, item 69, 2:435-38, 447-50; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:25, 45 (where they are dated April 4 and 29 respectively); and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, April 2-5, 1783, note 6. The enclosed May 1 resolve, directing the secretary at war to “take the most ef fectual measures to inform the several Indian Nations, on the frontiers of the United States, that Preliminary articles of peace have been agreed on and Hostilitys have ceased with Great Britain,” is in JCC, 24:319-20. Virginia Delegates to Bernardo de Galvez Sir Philada. May 4th. 1783 We have the honor of Enclosing to your Excellency a Resolution of the General Assembly of our State, by which your Excellency will see that the Accounts of Mr. Oliver Pollock, are Liquadated, and the bal ance put into a due Course of payment. 1 We think it proper to give your Excellency this Information for the benefit of such of the subjects of the King of Spain as are in Posses sion of the Bills drawn by the said Mr Pollock on Penette, Dacosta, Freres & Co. These Bills will be paid agreeable to the Inclosed Re solve, upon thier being presented at the Treasury of Virginia. We beg leave to recommend Mr Pollock to your Excellency’s protec tion, as one who has suffer’d much and who has discharged his duty both to the Publick & to his Creditors with Zeal & Integrity. We have the honor to be with sentimen[ts] of the highest respect, Your Excellencys Most Obedient and Humble Servts. { Arthur Lee Theok. Bland Ir J. Madison Jur. John F. Mercer delegates in Congress from the State of Virginia.
