234 May 6, 1783 nified its acquiescence in the limits fixed by the provisional articles be tween the U. S. & G. B. The navigation of the Mississippi remains to be discussed. Yesterday was fixed for an interview between Genl. W. and Sr. G. Carlton for the purpose of taking arrangements for carrying the stipu lations of the provisional articles into effect. The interview was pro posed by the former, who intimated that as the evacuation of the post of N. Y. was particularly interesting to the State of N. Y, Govr. Clinton would accompany him on the interview. The answer of Carlton im puted that he did not decline the proposition, but suggested that as Genl. Gray was expected with final orders it might be best to postpone the conference; adding that he should be attended by Lt. Govr. Elliott and Chief Justice Smith. The sample you give of the new Assembly is a flattering one. The plan of revenue with an address & sundry documents enforcing it is in the press & will soon be ready for them. Mr. Jones proposes to set out this evening, & will make but a very short stay at home. Mr. Lee enters on his journey tomorrow & proceeds without a halt to Richmond. 3 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:20-21. i See ibid., 6:499-500. 2 That is, the ceasefire proclamation drafted by Robert R. Livingston that Congress adopted on April 11. 3 Arthur Lee did not leave Philadelphia until May 12, for which see Madison to Ran dolph, May 13, note 1. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir Philadelphia 6th May 1783 We have not any thing material to communicate. General Washington & Sir Guy Carleton were to meet on yesterday at Tappan, in consequence of a Resolve of Congress directing Genl Washington in Conjunction with the Secretary at War to enter on proper Arrangements for the restoration of prisoners and the Evacua tion of the several posts in possession of the British in the united States. 1 From Sir Guy Carletons Letter to the Genl, it appears that Sir Charles Gray is hourly expected with the final Orders, from the british Ministry. We have the honor to be, Your Excellencys & Honors most Obedt. Servts. Dani. Carroll Wm. Hemsley
