May 6, 1783 235 RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Hemsley and signed by Hemsley and Carroll. 1 See Maryland Delegates to Paca, May 13, note 1. Richard Peters to Baron Steuben My dear Sir, 6th May 1783 You continue to complain I find by Mr Depentiere that I do not write to you. I thought you knew me better than to expect it. Shall I be perpetually telling a Man I have an Esteem for that my Respect & Af fection for him continues. This would be supposing such reiterations necessary & this I will not suppose. As to your Plans I have received them & have given them to the Committee for Peace Establishments. 1 You know how much I value all your military Opinions & therefore I need not tell you that I find much to commend in this. But if I were to go into the Details my Answer would be wordy & possibly not well grounded. All of them will not be adopted but they will furnish very respectable Parts of any Building we may erect. We are all well at Belmont. I wish you & your Neighbours at Camp were as well satisfied. It is the Thing nearest my Heart that the Army should be satisfied. Every thing in the power of Congress is doing but how our plans will succeed a short Time will determine. Yours afftely, Richard Peters RC (NHi: Steuben Papers). 1 See Peters to Steuben, April 23, 1783, note 1. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. 6 May 1783. Your Excellency’s favor of the 25th Ulto 1 came duly to hand yester day. A commercial intercourse is under present circumstances carried on freely from other States with our late Enemy, and as far as an ad vantage can be drawn from it, Virginia must certainly be equally enti tled to share in it. Congress have reed, no further intelligence relative to the final treaty of peace, nor any other material intelligence from Europe. The plan to be recommended to the states for funding the national debt, has been at length concluded, and with the documents proper to explain & urge it, will be forwarded as soon as the whole can be duly prepared. We inclose your Excelly. a letter addressed to us from Coulougnac & Cie. representing their transactions with Penet. 2
