May 13, 1783 245 An interview has been had between General Washington & Sir Guy Carleton at Orange-town, for sundry purposes relating to the execu tion of the 7 th article of the provisional treaty. Every assurance is given by the Latter that New York with Penobscot shall be evacuated as soon as the Shipping necessary for that purpose can be procured, which he has sent for. Commissioners on the part of the United States are ap pointed to superintend, with others on the part of the british, the em barkation, to prevent any property being carried away which by the treaty is stipulated to be left. It is not probable that our Army will dis band till the embarkation takes place. The Army are like to be furnished with three months pay at the time of disbanding. Part of it must be a paper anticipation. M r Morris will continue in office until the engagements necessary to be entered into for that purpose shall be discharged. The troops of the southern Army composing the Pennsylvania, Maryland & Virginia Lines are sent for to be brought into their respective States, in order to their being discharged. Congress are now busyed in reducing as fast as may be the publick expenditures, & selling the necessary peace arrange ments. A plan of revenue for funding the publick debt, which has taken up much time in Congress, will be immediately forwarded for the consideration of the States, accompanied with the documents nec essary to give information relating to that important subject. 2 As was natural to expect at the close of so long a war, we find a considerable debt on our hands, which, all will agree, it much concerns our na tional Character & prosperity to provide for, how various so ever may be the opinions as to the mode of doing it. It is, I think, Sir, also of much importance at this time that the accounts of the several States with the United States should be liquidated & brought to an equitable adjustment. Unless this is done it will be impossible to preserve mu tual confidence & a good understanding among them, or to obviate the objections which almost every one in its turn makes against com plying with the requisitions necessary for the common interest & safety. Commissioners for liquidating those accounts are now gone & going into the States. The necessary instructions to the one nomi nated for Connecticut, I understand by Mr Morris, are sent forward, & hope, if he is approved by the State, he will be able immediately to proceed to business. 3 We are not yet, Sir, favoured with the definitive treaty of peace, which is now daily expected. The completion of it is supposed to have been somewhat delayed to consult the approbation of the Emperor of Germany & the Emperess of Russia, who particularly interested them selves in the restoration of a general peace. By the enclosed paper your Excellency will perceive that another change has taken place in the british ministry. Not seeming in a hu mour to be satisfied, that fickle nation one day sacrifices a premier
