246 May 13, 1783 for continuing the war, & the next day another for putting an end to it. The truth perhaps is, that Great Britain, not having been able to accomplish her purposes either by figting or treating, finds it more convenient to charge the failure on a dificiency in her ser vants, than to acknowledge, what the world perceives to be the case, a deficiency in her resources & power. It is no secret that her debt is so increased as to require, together with her peace establishment, a million & a half annually more than her revenue amounts to. This circumstance alone made it necessary for her at all events to pur chase peace—and will probably be a sufficient security for her good behaviour for a long while yet to come. Neither the safety of this country, or the ballance & peace of Europe requires that Great Britain should be at all more reduced than she in fact is. And it is by avoiding that distraction of counsels & corruption of manner which have brought her down that America can hope to rise; or long enjoy the blessings of a revolution which under the auspices of Heaven she has gloriously compleated. I am informed by Col°. Dyer that he expects Judge Huntington will soon come forward to Congress to releive him. I have to request, Sir, that some Gentleman of the Delegation may also soon come forward to releive me. I expect to be under the necessity of returning in the month ofjune at farthest. I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect & consideration, Your Excellency’s most obed 1, humb 1 Serv 1. Oliver Ellsworth. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 See Eliphalet Dyer to Trumbull, April 12, 1783. 2 See Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783. 3 That is, William Thompson, who had been nominated to the post upon the resigna tion of Melancton Smith, and was approved by the Connecticut Assembly during its May 1783 session. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:441, 450. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. May 13. 1783. (Marbois lately took occasion in our family 1 to complain of ungen erous proceedings of the British against individuals as well as against their enemies at large and} 2 finally signified that {he was no stranger to the letter transmitted to Congress which he roundly avered to be spurious. His information came from Boston} where the (incident is said to be no secret} but (whether it be the echo of letters from Philadelphia or has transpired from the correspondence of Mr. Adams to his private friends is} uncertain. 3 This (conversation passed during my absence in New Jersey but was related to me by Mr. Carrol.
