May 13, 1783 247 A project for a treaty of commerce with Britain has been reported by Secretary foreign affairs and is now in the hands of a committee. 4 The objects most at heart are first a direct trade between this country & the West Indies. Second a right of carrying between the later and other parts of the British empire. Thirdly a right of carrying from West Indies to all other parts of the world. As the price of these} ad vantages, jit is proposed that we shall admit British subjects to equal privileges with our own citizens. As to the 1st object it may be ob served that the bill lately brought in British parliament renders it probable that it may be obtained without such a cession.} As to the {sec ond that it concerns eastern states} cheifly and {as to the third that it concerns them alone.} Whilst the {privilege to be ceded} will cheifly if not alone {affect the southern states.} The interest of these {seems to require that they should retain at least the faculty of giveing any} en couragement {to their own merchants ships or mariners which may be necessary to prevent relapse under scotch monopoly or to} acquire {a maritime importance.} The {eastern states need no such precaution.} Genl. Washington & Genl. Carlton have had an interview on the subject of arrangements for executing the provisional Treaty. It was in terrupted by the sudden indisposition of the latter. In the conversa tion which took place he professed intentions of evacuating New York & all the posts in the U.S. held by British Garrisons as soon as possi ble, but did not authorize any determinate or speedy expectations. He confessed that a number of Negroes had gone off with the Refugees since the arrival of the Treaty, and undertook to justify the permission by a palpable & scandalous misconstruction of the Treaty, and by the necessity of adhering to the proclamations under the faith of which the Negroes had eloped into their service. He said that if the Treaty should be otherwise explained, compensation would be made to the owners and to make this the more easy, a register had been & would be kept of all Negroes leaving N.Y. before the surrender of it by the British Garrison. This information has been referred by Congs, to a Committee. 5 But the progress already made in the discharge of the prisoners, the only convenient pledge by which fair dealing on the other side could be enforced, makes it probable that no remedy will be applied to the evil. I have sent Mr. Randolph a pamphlet comprehending all the papers which are to be laid before the States relative to the National debt &c. and have desired him to let you have the reading it. 6 The fewness of the copies made it impossible for me to get one for each of you. I am Dr Sir your sincere friend, J Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:39-40. 1 That is, Madison’s fellow boarders at the lodgings of Mrs. Mary House, among whom was Daniel Carroll mentioned by Madison at the end of this paragraph.
