248 May 13, 1783 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in a variation of the of ficial Virginia cipher. 3 For speculation on the circulation in Massachusetts of the marquis de Barbe-Mar- bois’ intercepted letter of March 13, 1782, critical of the American peace ultimata, see ibid., p. 40n.2. See also Madison’s Notes of Debates, December 24, 1782. 4 See Madison’s Notes of Debates, May 6, note 3. 5 Washington’s letter of May 8 enclosing copies of his correspondence with Sir Guy Carleton and the “Substance of the Conference” they held on May 6 had been referred on May 12 to a committee of three chaired by Madison which apparently returned the documents to Charles Thomson on May 21 without reporting. See JCC, 24:340n.l; PCC, item 152, 11:253-74, item 186, fol. 101; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:402-6,408-9,410-12. 6 For this pamphlet, see Elias Boudinot to the States May 9, 1783, note 1. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. 13. May. 1783. By Mr. Lee who set out yesterday afternoon I sent you a pamphlet col lecting into one view all the acts & documents relative to the National debt &c, which Congress have prepared for the Legislatures. 1 For still more minute information on the subject, I refer you to Mr. Jones who is now on his way to Virga, and will be at Richmond a few days after Mr. Lee. I refer you to him rather than to the latter gentleman because the task will coincide more with his sentiments as to the measure. Genl. Washington & Genl. Carlton have had an interview on the subject of the provisional treaty which was interrupted by the indispo sition of the latter. It wd. seem from the conversation which passed that altho’ a sincere intention is professed of evacuating N.Y. & all the other posts, the time at which it may be expected is very uncertain; and that a shameful evasion of the article for restoring the slaves will be practiced. Carlton did not deny that numbers of them were going off from N.Y. and attempted to justify the indulgence by a most outra geous misconstruction of the Treaty; and by the [professed?] necessity of adhering to the tenor of the proclamations under which the Ne groes had resorted within the British lines. He said that in case a dif ferent construction of the Treaty sd. be established a compensation would be made to the suffering owners, and that the precaution of keeping Registers of all Negroes which should leave N.Y. would be ac cordingly observed. An ominous sample of candor & good faith in our New friends! We have no further advices of the definitive Treaty. The sweets of peace begin to be amply enjoyed notwithstanding its delay. All foreign commodities have fallen to a price, almost below example, whilst the produce of the Country has proportionally risen beyond former prices. Salt is already down at 'A Dr. per bushel & wheat up at 8/. per do. I hope a removal of all legal obstacles to a share of these blessings,
