May 13, 1783 249 will claim the first attention of the Assembly. Their proceedings on that & other matters will furnish you with ample means I trust for re suming your correspondence as soon as your forensic labours will admit of a respite. With great affection I am Dr. Sir Yr. fr[i]end & Sert. J. Madison Jr. [PS.] The letter from the Govr. signifies that the territorial cession of Virga, has been revoked. Is this the fact? Ascertain it & let me know. 2 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:42-43. 1 See Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783, note 1. 2 In his letter of May 3, 1783, Gov. Benjamin Harrison had mistakenly informed the delegates that the Virginia assembly had revoked its land cession of January 2, 1781, a mistake which he corrected in his letter of May 9. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:4, 30-31. See also Charles Thomson to Harrison, April 22, 1783. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir Philadelphia 13th May 1783 General Washington & Sir Guy Carleton had a meeting on the 5th instant; the interview was short, owing to Sir Guy being taken ill. The following is an extract of what passed between them. 1 With respect to the Evacuation of New York, Sir Guy Carleton informed the General that every preparation which his Situation & circumstances wou’d per mit was making. That an additional Number of transports, & which were expected, were necessary to remove the Troops & Stores. And as it was impossible to ascertain the time when the Transports wou’d ar rive, their passages depending on the Casualties of the Sea, he was therefore unable to fix a determinate period within which the British forces wou’d be withdrawn from the City of New York. But that it was his desire to exceed even our own wishes in this respect & that he was using every means in his power to effect with all possible dispatch an Evacuation of that & every other post within the United States occu pied by the British Troops under his direction. That he Considered as included in the preparations for the final departure of the Troops, the previously sendg. away those persons, who supposed that, from the part they had taken in the present War, it wou’d be most eligible for them to leave the Country, and that upwards of 6,000 persons of this Character had embarked & sailed—and that in this embarkation a number of Negroes were comprised. Genl Washington thereupon expressed his surprized, that after what appeared to him an express stipulation to the contrary in the treaty, Negroes the property of the Inhabitants of these States shou’d be sent off. To which Sir Guy Car leton replied, that he wished to be considered as giving no construc tion of the Treaty—That by property in the treaty might only be in-
