May 19, 1783 255 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:44. 1 Madison originally wrote only “Thursday May 15. See Journal,” and apparently after discovering that the journal did not mention the report later crowded this sentence into the small space available. For the report at issue, which had been submitted to Congress on May 8 and was taken up again on May 23, see Madison’s Notes, May 23, note 3. Elias Boudinot to John Searle Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia May 19th. 1783. I am honoured with your very polite & friendly Letter of the 3d Ultimo, by our worthy Friend Capt. Pintard, whose dangers & dis tresses on his Passage to this Place, I make no doubt will be fur nished you by himself. Your very affectionate & kind congratulations on the very happy State of our public Affairs & the establishment of our Indepen [den] cy & Sovereignty, are accepted in the most pleasing Terms & recipro cated with the warmest Affection. The Family here, feel most sensibly, the very singular Kindness & Hospitality with which their Friends Capt Pintard & his Family, have been honored by Mr & Mrs Searle for so long a series of Time, and of which they return the most lively remembrance. I have been very fortunate in preserving the two Pipes of Wine you were so kind as to ship for me by the Sea Nymph, and which I doubt not but will answer my highest Expectations. Our excellent Friend Mr L. Pintard will write you particularly of the remittance I have made by this Opportunity of 45 Barrells of flour, which he thinks may Ballance the acct. These were shipped before the Capt’s arrival, in order to ac complish the business which has been so agreeably anticipated by your kindness. Some of my Friends, Delegates in Congress have also sent for a few Pipes, which I hope you will be particularly careful to supply of the best Quality, as it will be a means of raising the Credit of your House in future here. Permit me Sir, in the most cordial manner to wish you every Bless ing this world can afford, and particularly those of the most perma nent & substantial nature. I must beg the favour of your honoring me by making my most re spectful Compliments [and] best wishes acceptable to your good Lady and my old Friend Miss Searle with all your agreeable Family, in all which My Dr Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan most sincerely join. I have the honor to be with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, D Sir, Your &c FC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. Endorsed: “To John Searle, May 19, 1783.”
