266 May 20, 1783 fiscated, We shall increase the number of Our Subjects, We shall de prive the British of their property & labours, & We shall perhaps take a good step to defeat the Views of the French. On the other hand if we prohibit their return, the sixth Article if complied with will deprive us of the whole of their property, the British will probably have the benefit both of their labours & Estates, & the French will have the greater means of creating uneasiness & distrust between us & Brittain. I have taken the liberty of throwing out these scattered thoughts on the Subject, and I flatter myself that if they should not coincide with yours, you will consider them as proceeding from an honest disposi tion to promote the public interest. I wish I had time to copy this Let ter, to write it fairer & to methodize in some degree my Ideas—your candor will apologize for me I know as I have not time. With respect I am Dr Sir you most humle Servt. S. Higginson Sir May 22. The report on the old money has been several times called up, but the disposition of Congress is clearly not to decide upon the matter at present 9 —nor will they come to any Question as to the former requis- tions & supplies. Every thing of the kind is opposed & by some means or other set aside. Many motions have been made since I have been here to bring forward Questions of that kind & have failed. The rules of Congress make it easy to get rid of disagreable motions. There are so many States that are delinquent, such a variety of Senti ments as to what is right or eligible, that I very much doubt whether any of those Questions will be ever settled. They seem to be afraid of promoting dissensions & uneasiness among the States by deciding on such Subjects, but I think much more danger will arise from a delay of such decissions. It has been Our intention to push them to some decis- sion as to the old money, but no good opening has presented since the business of finance has been finished, & while that was on the Table they would not attend to any other matter. We can not muster nine States above one day in a Week, there being but just nine States in Town. The Financier has given permission to Mr. Hillegas to receive the April & May money remaining in Our Treasury. Mr. Osgood has got with him the State of all the different emissions & can give you every information respecting the several situations of the States as to money matters. I am Sir respectfully yours &c. S. H. RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Higginson’s letters to George Cabot and Jonathan Jackson have not been found, but one to Theophilus Parsons has been printed above under the date April 7-10? 1783. 3 That is, Robert Morris. 4 That is, the fifth article of the preliminary treaty of peace with Great Britain, con cerning the restitution of loyalist property and their rights.
