270 May 20, 1783 public good will be ad[v]ocates for the plan. The greatest danger is to be apprehended from the difficulty of making the latter class sensible of the impracticability or incompetency of any plan short of the one recommended; the arguments necessary for that purpose being drawn from a general survey of the federal system, and not from the interior polity of the States singly. The letter from the Delegation by the last post to the Govr. appri[sed] the legislature thro’ him that negociations for a Treaty of Commerce with G. B. might be expected soon to take place and that if any instructions should be deemed proper no time ought to be lost in giving the subject a legislative discussion. For my own part I wish sincerely that the commercial interests of Virginia were thor oughly investigated & the final sense of the State expressed to its representatives in Congress. 4 The power of forming Treaties of Commerce with foreign nations is among the most delicate with which Congs, are intrusted, and ought to be exercised with all possible circumspection. Whilst an influence might be expected from them on the event or duration of the war, the public interest required that they should be courted with all the re spectable nations of Europe, and that nice calculations of their ten dency should be dismissed. The attainment of the object of the war has happily reversed our situation and we ought no longer to enslave ourselves to the policy of the moment. The State of this Country in re lation to the Countries of Europe, it ought to be observed, will be con tinually changing, and regulations adapted to its commercial & gen eral interests at present, may hereafter be directly opposed to them. The general policy of America is at present pointed at the encourage ment of Agriculture, and the importation of the objects of consump tion. The wider therefore our ports be opened and the more exten sive the privileges of all competitors in our Commerce, the more likely we shall be to buy at cheap & sell at profitable rat[es.] But in propor tion as our lands become settled, and spare hands for manufactures & navigation, multiply, it may become our policy to favor those objects by peculiar privileges, bestowed on our own Citizens; or at least to intro duce regulations inconsistent with foreign engagements suited to the pesent state of things. The relative situation of the different States in this respect is an other motive to circumspection. The variance of their policy & inter ests in the article of commerce strikes the first view, and it may with great truth be noted that as far as any concessions may be stipulated in favor of foreign nations they will cheifly be at the expence of those States which will share least in the compensations obtained for them. If for example, restrictions be laid on the Legislative right of the States to prohibit, to regulate or to tax as they please their imports & exports, & to give such preferences as they please to the persons or
