May 20, 1783 271 vessels employed in them, it is evident that such restrictions will be most felt by those States which have the greatest interest in exports & imports. If on the other side the Citizens of the U.S. should in return for such a stipulation be allowed to navigate & carry, in forbidden channels, is it not equally evident [that] the benefit must fall to the share of those States which export & consume least, and abound most in resources of ships & seamen. Nor should it be overlooked that as uniform regulations of the Commerce of the different States, will so differently affect their {differ ent) several interests, such regulations must be a strong temptation to measures in the aggrieved States which may first involve the whole confederacy in controversies with foreign nations, and then in con tests with one another. I may safely suggest also to your ear, that a vari ety of circumstances make it proper to recollect that permanent en gagements entered into by the Confederacy with foreign powers, may survive the Confederacy itself, that a question must then arise how far such engagements formed by the States in their foederal character, are binding on each of them separately, and that they may become pre texts for quarrels with particular States, very inconvenient for the lat ter, or for a general intrusion into American disputes. On the other hand candor suggests that foreign connections, if founded on princi ples equally corresponding with the policy & interests of the several States might be a new bond to the foederal compact. Upon these considerations I think it would be advisable to form all our commercial Treaties in future with great deliberation, to limit their duration to moderate periods, & to restrain our Ministers from acceding finally to them till they shall have previously transmitted them in the terms adjusted, for the revision & express sanction of Congress. In a Treaty of Commerce with G. B. it may be the policy of Virga, in particular to reserve her right as unfettered as possible over her own commerce. The monopoly which formerly tyrannized over it, has left wounds which are not yet healed, 8c the numerous debts due from the people, & which by the provisional articles they are immedi ately liable for, may possibly be made instruments for reestablishing their dependence. It cannot therefore be for the interest of the State to preclude it from any regulations which experience may recom mend for its thorough emancipation. It is possible that experience may never recommend an exercise of this right, nor do my own senti ments favor in general, any restrictions or preferences in matters of commerce, but those who succeed us will have an equal claim to judge for themselves and will have further lights to direct their judgments. Nor ought the example of old & intelligent nations to be too far or too hastily condemned by an infant 8c inexperienced one. That of G. B. is in the science of commerce particularly worthy of our attention; And did she not originally redeem the management of her Commerce
