274 May 21, 1783 Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dr Sir, Philadelphia May 21st. 1783 I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency two Letters that have been committed to my Care. 1 Not a Word of News from Europe, but what is taken from the New York Papers. Have the Honor to be with great respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed & very Hble Servt. Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Perhaps the May 20 letters written by General Armand-Tuffin and Lt. Col. Jean-Bap tiste Ternant from Philadelphia concerning the latter’s claims to promotion, which are in the Washington Papers, DLC, and which Washington answered May 28. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:456-58. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, May 21st, 1783 I have been Impatiently waiting some Weeks in hopes & expectation that some Gentleman in Delegation from the State of Connecticut would arrive to my relief, and with Mr. Ellsworth represent that State in Congress. I most Sincerely wish Connecticut & every other State to be represented; I wish the New England States to be represented; I wish they had not Suffered for want of a full representation. When I Consented to attend Congress the last time I understood it to be the mind of the Assembly that 3 should attend from that State in so Criti cal a season, but that has been the Case but for a little time in the Course of the Year. It is unhappy to have a State divided, which some times must be the Case when but two, or yield & Condescend the one to the other. It is very inconvenient that a Member cannot be absent, whatever the Occasion may be, but it leaves the State unrepresented. I have been urged, I have tarried, I have never heretofore left the State Unrepresented, tho it has frequently been done, & I believe to good satisfaction; but I begin to be Apprehensive that as long as I tarry no Gentn will come forward, for I believe no one is fond of being here, am therefore determined by the leave of Providence to set out on my return in a very few days. 1 I think I cannot be blaimed, I hope & trust I shall be excused, & as I expect to be at Hartford before the Assembly rises, renders it unnecessary for me to enlarge in this letter, and noth ing New of Importance to Communicate. Am, with the greatest Es teem and regard, Your Excellcy most Obedt, Hie Servt Elipht Dyer. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Dyer left Philadelphia on May 29. See Dyer to Thomas Shaw, June 3, 1783.
