May 21, 1783 275 Oliver Ellsworth to Benjamin Huntington Dear Sir, Philada. May 21. 1783. I expect to leave Congress next month at farthest & must call on you & Mr. Strong to agree between you which shall come forward to take a Seat—that the State may not be without a representation at a time when it is so indespensible as at the present. I have written to Mr. Strong 1 who I think has never taken a tour tho’ chosen a number of years; if his health will admit it perhaps he will have no objection to come forward at this time. You will how[ev]er please to confer with him & adjust the matter between you as shall be most convenient. Col. Dyer proposes to leave us next week & expects Mr. S. Huntington will soon be here in which I hope he will not be disappointed. 2 We have nothing material from Europe later than you have. Con gress are now busy in adjusting the necessary arrangements for peace & reducing as fast as may be the publick expenditures. I am Dr Sr. yr. obed. H Sert. Oliv Ellsworth RC (NRom: Huntington Autograph Collection). 1 Ellsworth’s letter to Jedediah Strong has not been found. 2 Dyer’s proposed return to Connecticut is also documented in the following brief let ter that Ellsworth wrote to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull on May 28. “I have to beg the favour of your Excellency, if it shall be consistant, that the neces sary orders may be given for forwarding to me by Jesse Brown or some other safe con veyance a sum not less than sixty pounds on account of my expences in attending Congress; which sum I shall probably have occasion for if as I fear will be the case I shall have to remain here to the last of June. “Colo. Dyer expects to set out tomorrow & will I hope reach Hartford before the as sembly rises.” Trumbull Papers, Ct. Nathaniel Gorham to Timothy Dwight Dear Sir. 1 Philadelphia May 21 1783 I was in great hopes to have seen you at Greenfield upon my return home—but I having been detaind rather longer than I expected and finding by conversation with Mr Simpkin that you would probably leave Greenfield about this time I in [c] lose to Mrs Dwight for you at North Hampton a pamphlet—containing the resolutions of Congress relative to finance—which when you have read I wish you to circulate among your friends. I hope you have by this time got ready an affirma tive answer to the Parish in Charlestown—but if not I hope Mrs. Dwight will be our advocate. I think she will form connections there at Boston, which will be very agreable. I wrote her a few lines on the subject—hope you & she will excuse hast—& be assured that I [am] your sincere friend & very humble servant, Nath Gorham
