284 May 27, 1783 here to judge of and take the Security, and draw Bills in my Favour for the Money. I am, with much Regard, dear Sir, Sincerely yours, James Wilson P.S. You will be good enough to write to me on the Subject of this Let ¬ ter as soon as possible, J.W. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 See Page Smith, James Wilson, Founding Father, 1742-1798 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1956), pp. 160-61. Massachusetts Delegates to John Hancock Sir, Philadelphia, May 28th, 1783. We have not been inattentive to the letters of instructions which we have been honored with from the General Court respecting the old paper money, but have not been able to procure a determination of Congress upon the subject; for sometime past there has been only nine States represented in Congress, when all the members in town at tended, & by reason of indisposition of one Gentleman, & sometimes others not attending, that, when there has been nine states present, business of the greatest importance, press’d so hard, that it was diffi cult to determine, which ought to be attended to first; However, Mon day last was assigned for the further consideration of the matter, 1 but there not having been nine States represented, in Congress, since, it still lays as the order of the day, to be taken up as soon as there is a sufficient number present; And your Excellency and the Honorable Court may be assured of our greatest attention to the same, & we hope to be able to give you further information, upon this subject, be fore the end of the present session of the General Court. Agreeably to our instructions, we have the honor of inclosing, sev eral official accounts, respecting the emissions of continental money. 2 We have, with perfect respect, the honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient servants, S. Holten Nath Gorham S. Higginson N.B. The accounts mentioned, above can’t be compleated before the post will sit out, but will be forwarded with our next. 3 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Holten, and signed by Holten, Gorham, and Higginson. 1 See JCC, 24:357-58. 2 Not identified. 3 See Massachusetts Delegates to John Hancock, June 9, 1783.
