May 29, 1783 285 Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir. Philadelphia May 28th. 1783. We have to acknowledge receipt of your Excellys. Letter of the 13th Instant. 1 From principle as well as to comport with the sense of Our Constituents, we should not fail to embrace the first, and every favorable Opportunity to obtain the Repeal of a Resolution so re pugnant in its Spirit (& Operation, if carried into effect), to those Principles, which form the Basis of Our Foederal Constitution—and which we believe would never have existed, had the Delegates of every State pursued the Instructions, or general Wishes of their Constituents. But the present time is unfavorable to attempt it, New Hampshire, is unrepresented—and whose Delegates, have ever been hearty in Opposition to it, Connecticut’s Delegation is not yet changed— which we have reason to hope would be a change in our favor; Those States—together with New Jersey, and Rhode Island, were the only ones which ever acted against such a Measure since our being in Congress. There have been for some time past but Eight States represented. This confines the business to a very narrow Circle, as a principal part of it which should now engage their Attention requires the voices of nine States. We have had no late advices from Europe, our last gave encourage ment of the Completing the definitive Treaty some time in April. With the highest respect for your Excellency and the Honorable As sembly, We have the honor to be Your very humble servants, John Collins Jona. Arnold RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Arnold and signed by Arnold and Collins. 1 In the letter to the delegates printed under a May 10 date in Staples, Rhode Island, p. 440, Governor Greene explained the Rhode Island Assembly’s instructions directing them to seek repeal of Congress’ March 22 commutation resolution allowing Continen tal officers “whole pay” for five years in compensation for their “half pay” for life. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Philadelphia 29th May 1783 I now forward by Mr. Darrach 12 Copies of the Recommendations of Congress, 1 for the use of the Delaware State. An additional number are order’d to be printed, of which our proportion will be sent for-
