286 May 29, 1783 ward when received. I also take the liberty to inclose to your Excel lency the News Papers of yesterday and to-day. A ship arrived last evening in 35 days fron France, but has brought no public dispatches. The Captain says he saw a fleet of Transports going into New york, to assist, as is supposed, in the evacuation of that City. He also says that he understood the Definitive Treaty was in great forwardness, and would be compleated in a very short time. On Monday last Congress came to a Resolution to give furloughs to the army, and the soldiers are permitted to take their arms with them, and are promised dis charges as soon as the definitive Treaty arrives. 2 As this Letter is writ ten in Congress where I am almost deafened with the noise of speak ers, your Excellency will excuse its inaccuracies. I am sir, your most obt. Servt, E. M:Comb. 3 RC (DLC: Nicholas Van Dyke Papers). 1 That is, the April 26 Address and Recommendation to the Stales, for which see Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783. 2 See JCC, 24:364; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, May 26, 1783. 3 McComb also wrote the following note, addressed to “Mr. Solomon Maxwell, Chris tiana Bridge,” on May 28. “On the 29th March last a small Box and a Demy John, directed to Dr. James Ander son, of Chester Town, was forwarded to you. The box was by mistake put down as a Keg in the freight list, which it is probable has prevented its being sent on. The demy John has arrived safe, but there is no acount of the box. Be pleased to enquire into this mat ter, and if it is in your Store I wish it were return’d to Mr. Hollingsworth because I pre sume there are now no opportunities by land from Christiana to Chester Town.” Levi Hollingsworth Papers, PHi. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday May 29. [1783] 1 The report of the Committee concerning the Interest on British debts was committed after some discussion. 2 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:94. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote: ‘Tuesday 27 May. Wednesday 28 May. No Congress.” 2 For the origins of this report, which was originally drafted by Samuel Osgood and recommitted to a committee consisting of John Francis Mercer, Thomas FitzSimons, and Theodorick Bland on May 20 to “Report on a letter 19 March 1783 from Su- pr[eme] Execut[ive] of Pensylva. & resolutions of Assembly of Virginia” concerning stipulations in the preliminary peace treaty on the recovery of debts, see PCC, item 20, 2:153-56; item 186, fol. 103; and Madison’s Notes, March 20, note 1, May 19, note 2. For the adoption of the report’s recommendations “concerning Interest on British debts,” see Madison’s Notes, May 30, note 3.
