May 30, 1783 287 Ralph Izard to Arthur Middleton Dear Sir Philadelphia 30th. May 1783. By Mr. Beresford 1 I was favoured with your Letter of 15th instant; & he at the same time delivered me 320 Dollars from you. Your drafts in favour of Walker, & Reedle amount to no more than 260 Dollars; so that I am at a loss to know why you have [in the language of the Chief Magistrate of a very respectable State] 2 superadded Sixty Dollars: I shall however keep them, & be ready to pay them to your order. My House, you say, is in a very ruinous condition. And this, in spite of my Lares; those beautiful & elegant plaster-headed household Gods, who could have been posted on the outward Wall, for no other purpose, but that of affording protection. I hope it will not be incon sistent with the plan to be formed by you, and Dr. Drayton, to have them dismissed, the old bricks rubbed from the top of the House, to the bottom, & the interstices new pointed. My intention is to have a Piazza in each Front, & an Area sunk; to give light to the Offices under the House. I have written to London for a Carpenter, & Builder. If I am so fortunate as to get such a one as McKenzie, or Bernard Elliott had, he will be very serviceable, & save me a great deal of expence. I am sorry to learn that so many of your Negroes are still missing; & the more so, as I fear that it will not be an easy matter to re cover them. Sr. Guy Carleton has very explicitly given it as his opinion that the Negroes within the British Lines can not be claimed by virtue of the Preliminary Treaty, as property belonging to the Citizens of the United States, because they have been declared free by Proclamations, issued by Officers acting under the authority of the King of Great Britain. This is a most impudent evasion of the Treaty; & yet we are not in a condition to help ourselves. The conduct of the States re specting Revenue, has so totally annihilated all Continental Strength, & credit, that no Enemy need be afraid of insulting us. If the most Southern States do not in the course of a few years exhibit some melancholy proofs of the truth of this observation, I shall be greatly mistaken. The Delegates from those States which are most immedi ately interested in Carleton’s affected misconstruction of the Article in the Treaty, respecting the Negroes, have attempted everything in their power to obtain redress. A majority of Congress were afraid to make an express declaration that the British had violated it. It was said that a renewal of hostilities might be the consequence of such declara tion, & the case of General Burgoyne was adduced as a proof of the danger of declaring a Treaty broken. It is most certain that without money, and without credit we are by no means in a condition to con tinue the War: but bad as the British Ministry are, I can hardly think it
