296 June 1,1783 Those who consult only their passions might choose to construe what I say as too favourable to a set of men who have been the ene mies of the public liberty; but those for whose esteem I am most con cerned will acquit me of any personal considerations and will perceive that I only urge the cause of national honor, safety and advantage. We have assumed an independent station; we ought to feel and to act in a manner consistent with the dignity of that station. I anxiously wish to see every prudent measure taken to prevent those combinations which will certainly disgrace us, if they do not in volve us in other calamities. Whatever distinctions are judged neces sary to be made in the cases of those persons who have been in oppo sition to the common cause, let them be made by legal authority on a fair construction of the treaty, consistent with national faith and na tional honor. I have the honor to be with perfect respect, Yr. Excellency’s Most Obed servant [PS.] Your Excellency will have been informed that Congress have in structed General Washington to garrison the frontier posts when sur rendered with the three years Continental troops. 3 This is more for the interest of the state than to have them garrisoned at its particular expence—and I should wish that permanent provision might be made on the same principle. I wait to see whether any Continental peace es tablishment for garrisons &c. will take place before I engage the con sent of Congress to a separate provision. I cannot forbear adding a word on the subject of money. The only reliance we now have for redeeming a large anticipation on the pub lic credit already made and making for the benefit of the army is on the taxes coming in. The collection hitherto is out of all proportion to the demand—it is of vast consequence at this juncture that every thing possible should be done to forward it. I forbear entering into details which would be very striking upon this subject. I will only say that unless there is a serious exertion in the states public credit must ere long receive another shock very disagreeable in its conse quences. &c. FC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). In the hand of Alexander Hamilton. 1 That is, of May 14. 2 In response to Hamilton’s letters and President Elias Boudinot’s June 3 appeal to the states then unrepresented in Congress, Governor Clinton wrote on June 9 to New York’s non-attending delegates—James Duane, Ezra L’Hommedieu, and John Morin Scott—concerning their obligation to keep the state represented. Clinton, Papers (Hast ings), 8:202-3. 3 See JCC, 24:337-39.
