298 June 3, 1783 being perfected which requires the consideration and assent of Nine States, have obliged Congress again to press the attention of your State immediately towards the compleating the Representation of the United States in Congress. It is extremely humiliating to us, as well as disadvantageous to the union, that the public business is so retarded by the delinquency of many of the States in so momentous a concern. The greatest part of the business now before Congress, or which will be necessary previous to an adjournment, requires the assent of nine States; so that unless a fuller Representation can be accomplished, the most dangerous and destructive delays must unavoidably take place. It is in consequence of the most positive instructions of Congress 1 that I again trouble your Excellency on this subject, the importance of which will be a sufficient excuse. &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “The Honorable President of the Council of New Hampshire. Note. The same verbatim was sent to the Governors of Connecticut, New- York, Maryland & Georgia." 1 No such “instructions” were recorded by Secretary Thomson in the journals of Congress, but see also Boudinot to the States, May 9 and June 10, 1783. Elias Boudinot to Bernardo de Galvez Sir, Philadelphia 3d June 1783 Congress having thought proper to appoint the Bearer hereof Oliver Pollock, Esq. their Commercial Agent at the Havanna, he pro ceeds immediately for that City in order to take upon himself the du ties assigned him by that Commission. 1 Your Excellency will permit me to recommend him to your attention and notice in those matters of the United States in which it may be nec essary for him to claim your Excellency’s patronage and interposition. I have the honor to be, with the most perfect consideration &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For Pollock’s commission and election to this post, see JCC, 24:372, 376-77. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir New York June 3d 1783 I have at length Succeeded in the Labourious task I have had to go through in your Cause which was not finished till Thursday last when I
