June 4, 1783 301 more certain. If a reduction of the number of Delegates should take place it will be still more essential not to include me. I have reed, from Mr. Webb £100 refd. to in yours. The remittance of £1000 havg. been shared not equally as heretofore but according to our respective arrears, this sum will somewhat overpay me. You will therefore not apply for other warrants in my behalf. I wish you had re served the £50 which you advanced for me sometime ago & that you wd. now draw on me for it if it be more convenient for you to receive it here, or you can readily sell a bill where you are. It will be perfectly convenient for me to pay it. 3 Being somewhat indisposed in my head & also pressed for time I beg leave to refer to Mr. Jones instead of repeating what I have written to him. 4 Adieu My dear sir & be assured that I am yr. sincere friend, J- M. [PS.] I have a letter from a Correspondt. of Mazzei at Nantz, which informs me that, [he] was at Paris in Feby. and wd. sail for America in March or April. 5 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:107-8. 1 See ibid., pp. 72—74. 2 See Madison to Thomas Jefferson, May 20, 1783, note 5. 3 See Madison to Randolph, May 27, note 1. 4 Madison’s June 3 letter to Joseph Jones has not been found, but for the condition from which Madison occasionally suffered, “somewhat resembling Epilepsy, and sus pending the intellectual functions,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 1:164, 8:270. 5 See ibid., 6:243. Gunning Bedford, Jr. to Nicholas Van Dyke Dear Sir, Philadelphia June 4th. 83. I do myself the honor to inclose you the Papers of the day, which contain all the news here. Mr. McComb transmitts the grants of NYork & Maryland to Con gress; 1 I wish our State may be generous, & not loose so fine an op portunity of aggrandising herself. I have mentioned to you in person my idea on the subject, I will repeat it, that we should grant in fee sim ple two or three hundred acres to Congress including all the Hill back of Wilmington with a jurisdiction of six or eight miles up between the Christiana & Brandywine, or around include New Castle &c. I have wrote to Wilmington 2 inclosing the cessions of the corporations of Kingston & Annapolis, & requesting the proprietors to fix a moderate price for their respective shares, which I make no doubt (unless they are blind to their own interests) they will comply with. It is a matter of
