304 June 4, 1783 Nathaniel Gorham to Caleb Davis Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia June 4. 1783. You have undoubtedly before this seen the resolutions of Congress relative to impost &c. in which the States are requested to cede their vacant lands to congress to establish a fund so far as they will go to ward the extinsion of the publick debt, it is certainly best it should be done, but it behoves Massachusetts to be very carefull in their grant if they see fit to make any or other way, then may be in danger of giving land to New York instead of giving it to the general stock—but I think no danger will arise if it is made in the same form as the cession of NYork which may be found in the Journal of Congress. March 1781— page 48. We are daily in expectation of the definitive treaty and if it ar rives soon I am in hopes Congress will adjourn for three or four months which I think will answer good purposes. This place is exceed ingly expensive and will undoubtedly encrease in that way—as foreign ministers increas. The Dutch minister has wrote to Mr Livingston de siring him to hire for use the best house in Town—& to buy him the most elegant carriage & six of the best carriage horses that can be bought—& if the dutchman rides with six horses the ministers of France England &c. will not chuse to ride with less. New York & Mary land have made offers of Towns for the use of Congress—you will see them as they are to be sent to the States, 2 in order that may all be rep resented, when the question is considered on the first monday of Oc tober next. I am in hopes I shall be at home before your Session ends and in the interim I remain Your friend & very humble Sert, Nath Gorham RC (MHi: Caleb Davis Papers). 1 Caleb Davis, who has been identified in these Letters, ll:288n.l, was speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives. 2 See Elias Boudinot to the States, June 10, 1783. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Philadelphia 4th June 1783. A few days ago I had the honor to inclose to your Excellency 1 a copy of an Act of the Legislature of Newyork confirming a Grant made by the Corporation of Kingston; 2 since which the offer made by the State of Maryland, mentioned in my last, has been read in Con gress, and I now do myself the honor to inclose a copy of it. The pro ceedings of the Corporation of the City of Annapolis have been trans mitted to Wilmington, in hopes that with so good an example before
