June 4, 1783 305 their eyes, the inhabitants of that Borough, especially the owners of the Land in question, will enable the Legislature to make a generous offer to Congress. As Mr. Bedford incloses the News Papers of the day, I need not give you the trouble of another copy. Mr. Van Berkel, minister from the United Provinces of Holland is to sail early in June, and may be expected here the last of July, or early in August. Our charge des affairs at that Court, has written to our Minister for Foreign Affairs, requesting that an elegant House, in a pleasant part of the City, may be taken, and a Coach and six Horses, provided for him. The States of New Hampshire, Connecticut, New york, Maryland & Georgia are now unrepresented. An order passed yesterday, desiring the President to write to these states for an immediate Representation, and to the others to continue theirs, in order that there may be a full Congress to take up some business of importance, 3 (principally relat ing to the back Lands,) on the completion of which Congress may, and I suppose will, adjourn for several Months. I am sir, your Excellency’s most obt and very humble servant, E. McComb RC (DLC: William Kent Gilbert Collection). 1 See McComb to Van Dyke, May 31, 1783. 2 See Elias Boudinot to the States, June 10, 1783. 3 See Elias Boudinot to Certain States, June 3, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesdayjune 4. [1783] The Report of the Committee for giving to the army certificates for land was taken up. After some discussion of the subject, some mem bers being for and some agst. making the certificates tra[n]sferrable it was agreed that the Report should lie on the table. 1 For what passed in relation to the Cession of vacant territory by Virga, see the Journal. 2 Whilst Mr. Hamiltons motion relating to Mr Livingston Secretary of For. affrs. was before the House, Mr. Peters moved, in order to detain Mr Livingston in office, that it be declared by the Seven States present that the Salary ought to be augmented. To this it was objected 1. that it would be an assumption of power in 7 States to say what 9 States ought to do, 2. that it might ensnare Mr. Livingston, 3. that it would commit the present States, who ought to be open to discussion when 9 States should be on the floor. The motion of Mr. Peters being with drawn, that of Mr. Hamilton was agreed to. 3
