June 10, 1783 317 should have free liberty &c”, & the last clause, are absolute & obliga tory. Seven States were not then in favour of passing any resolution re specting those Articles, & no recomendations will probably be made by Congress to the States till the definitive Treaty arrives. In the mean time the States will not I hope proceed in the confiscation of refugee Estates in opposition to the sixth Article, nor take any measures that may hereafter be Barrs to the admission of certain descriptions of the Refugees. I can not but think that some of them may be admitted not only with safety but with advantage to the States—it surely then must be good policy to do that which will be beneficial in an interested View to Ourselves, & which will greatly conciliate & perhaps excuse a departure in some other point from the Treaty. We can in such cases with a good grace comply with the Treaty without any danger. Should the sixth Article not be complied with, may we not lose all those important advantages secured to us by the Treaty, & will it not reflect great dishonour upon Our Comissioners who have really per formed Wonders in obtaining such a Treaty? Will any man say that the Treaty is not a good one & highly honorable to us? Is not Our interest in the most important & essential points compleatly established? Could We reasonably or did the most sanguine man expect that noth ing disagreable to Us would be inserted into the Treaty? Could We presume that in a Revolution like this We should have succeeded in every possible point, that no interest, no Views should be attended to but Ours?, surely not. Should the sixth Article be violated by us Brit tain may perhaps declare the Treaty void in all its parts. She may tell us that She shall still consider us as a separate independant Nation, but that She will not allow us to fish on the Banks & She will renew her claim to a great extent of Territory ceded to us by the Treaty. Our situation would in such case be very disagreable. We should then be again involved in a War with her without any Ally, any prospect of as sistance, or We might tamely give up those two great points—we should then be precisely in the situation which France & Spain wish to see us. Every important Object almost would be lost to the eastern States beyond all hope of recovery. We know that the extent of Terri tory & the right to the Fishery confirmed to us by Treaty was by no means agreable to France or Spain, Our being an independent Na tion satisfies them, the poorer & more confined we are in Our limits & means of growing powerful, the more agreable to them. When We consider the characters that compose the new ministry We may rea sonably expect that any opening We may give them to set aside the Treaty will be eagerly embraced. If therefore the Treaty is upon the whole a good one for us & secures to us Our most important interests, We ought to be very careful that we do nothing which can endanger its efficacy or involve us in a new dispute with Brittain. I have no rela tion, no friend among the Refugees, whose return I am anxious to
