318 June 10, 1783 bring about or whose Estate I wish to save from confiscation—I feel no interest operating in my mind but that of the public, this only I am at present anxious about, it is this I wish to secure. I see no object of sufficient importance, to induce us to run any hazard of losing the benefit of the Treaty—the Estates of the refugees surely can not be One. The expence of a small Army for one Season only will infinitely almost overbalance all those that yet remain unconfiscated. We have sent to the Governor, the States of the old money, the April & May emissions & the new emission 2 —by them you will see that a very great proportion of the old money is yet outstanding. They give you all the information required in your Letter of last October. I have no expectation that Congress will come to any resolution as to the old money—many gentlemen think that it would be very improper & dan gerous for Congress to do any thing, it ought rather say they to be re ceived from individuals by the State & charged by the State to the Continent, but will they not dispute hereafter that charge as being wholly wrong or because it was called in by the State at an improper rate? Congress should in that case at least determine they will allow the charge & the rate of redemption. Others think that it ought to die in the hands of the posessors; their States are greatly or wholly delin quent & their Citizens have little of it by them, it is natural therefore for them to think thus. We have been prepared ever since I have been here to bring the matter forward, but we have never had an oppy of doing it with success, there has been no period that the States have been all represented or when more than six States could have been expected to vote for the redemption of it at any rate. We have there fore delayed making any motion for a decission in hope that other States might be represented or that something might turn up to favour the motion & give greater prospect of Success—but as the Court is now sitting & it is time they should know the sense of Con gress on that Subject, we have determined to push for a decission as soon as nine States are represented—for some time past we have had only eight States. The alteration in the rule proposed by Congress for determining Quotas is I think a good One, 3 it is much more simple & easy to prac tice upon than the former rule, but the allowance made for the Blacks is much too great—the same number of Souls in the Southern States support themselves, & furnish an excess for exportation by their labour much greater, than the Inhabitants in the northern States can possibly do, & in proportion to that excess is their Ability to pay Taxes. A comparative View of the northern & southern States, their Soil, cli mates, produce &c will easily account for the difference. It is a com mon thing for a man in So. Carolina to make from 20 to 30 guineas a head by the labour of his Negroes in a year, & that clear of all ex- pences including their subsistance. I have this information from
