June 10,1783 325 The offers of N. Y. & Maryld. of a seat for Congs, are postponed till Ocr. next in order to give time for other offers & for knowing the sense of the States on the subject. Copies of those acts are to be sent to the Executives of each State. 10 I have forgot the request of Mr. Mercer for several weeks to make his apology for failing to open a correspondence with you. The regu lar one maintained between yourself & me, he supposes, would leave little but repetition to him, and his other correspondents, I suppose give him competent employment. Congress have resumed at length the Cession of Virga. The old ob noxious report was committed, and a new report has been made which I think a fit basis for a compromise. A copy of it is inclosed for the Govr. I have also transcribed it in my letter to Mr. Jones. 11 As it tacitly excludes the pretensions of the Companies, I fear obstacles may arise in Congs, from that quarter. Clarke from N. Jersey informed Congs, that the Delegates from that State being fettered by instructions, must communicate the plan to their constituents. If no other causes of delay should rise the thinness of Congs, at present will prove a material one. I am at some loss for the policy of the Companies in opposing a com promise with Virga. They can never hope for a specific restitution of their claims, they can never even hope for a cession of the Country be tween the Alleghany & the Ohio by Virga, as little can they hope for an extension of a jurisdiction of Congs, over it by force. I should suppose therefore that it wd. be their truest interest to promote a general ces sion of the vacant Country to Congress, and in case the titles of which they have been stript sd. be deemed by them reasonable, and Congs, sd. be disposed to make any equitable compensation, Virga, wd. be no more interested in opposing it than other States. I inclose different papers to you & to Mr. Jones, & recommend an interchange. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:133—35. 1 See ibid., pp. 44—46. 2 Not found. s See ibid., pp. 74n.l2, 112. 4 For explanations of Thomas Paine’s December 1782 “Mission” to Rhode Island to combat anti-impost sentiment in that state, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:78-93; and Irwin H. Polishook, Rhode Island and the Union, 1774—1795 (Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 1969), pp. 76-78. 5 Cyrus Griffin, John Lowell, or George Read. 6 On April 11 Congress had adopted a proclamation establishing the cessation of hos tilities in American waters as occurring one month after the February 3 ratification of the provisional treaties of peace by France and England, although a two month “epoch” was observed by the British navy in America. See JCC, 24:238-40. See also Virginia Dele gates to Benjamin Harrison, March 25, 1783, note 1. 7 See the preceding entry, note 9. 8 See the preceding entry, notes 1-3.
