342 June 18,1783 membered that some years since Congress promised the officers half pay for life, & tho’ I was not in Congress at that time, yet, I consid ered myself bound in Honor & justice to make good the promise, & after great deliberation, I was of opinion, & still am, that we had bet ter give them five years ful pay, than half pay for life. This Congress has agreed to & the officers have also agreed to accept the same; the exchange made with the officers will be much in favor of Mas sachusetts for we shall now pay only our part of the sum, which if it had not been done by Congress, but referred to the states to pay their own officers, such states as did not comply, their officers, no doubt, wou’d have been paid out of the continental Treasury, & it wou’d have been very difficult to have got such accounts adjusted & settled hereafter, as the states that are most forward to make grants are not always the first to pay. Have I, my dear sir, ever made you my congratulations on acct, of peace being restored to our country; if I have not please to accept it at this time. What adds to this agreeable event is peace upon such hon orable terms. I am, with sincere respect, your most obedient FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 That is, in the House of Representatives of the Massachusetts General Court. Hutchinson is identified in these Letters, 15:68. Samuel Holten to James Sullivan Dear Sir. Philadelphia, 18th. June, 1783. Some time since, I reed, a letter from you requesting my attention in procuring a power of attorney to put in suit the bonds of the Cap tains or commanders of two private armed Vessels; I immediately waited on Mr. Hillegas, & he informed me there had been but one such application, & that produced a Special resolution of Congress, & therefore he did not consider himself at liberty to comply with your request without their permission; Accordingly I prepared a reso lution that wou’d have answered your purposes & moved it in Congress, ’tho I was of opinion at that time that a Genl, resolution was most proper & mentiond. it; a Committee was appointed to take into consideration my motion, & at length I got a resolution passed, a Copy of which I inclose; 1 together with a power of attorney, & the copies of the bonds you sent forward; & I wish you to consider the length of time it takes to get business done in such a body as Congress, & afterwards attended to in the great offices of State, & then I think you will not be of opinion that I have neglected your business, by not giting it compleated before. I am, with perfect respect, your most obedient.
