344 June 19,1783 that He do immediately send an Express to Major General St Clair, di recting him to repair to this City without delay. 1 The assistant Secre tary will not communicate this measure to any Person whatever. RC (O: Arthur St. Clair Papers). In Boudinot’s hand, though not signed. 1 There is no mention of this order in the journals of Congress, but for the context of this directive, see James Madison’s Notes of Debate, this day, notes 3—5. Committee of Congress to William Jackson Sir, Philadelphia, June 19. 1783 Information having been received, that a detachment of about Eighty mutineers are on their way from Lancaster to this place, you will please to proceed to meet them and to endeavour by every pru dent method to engage them to return to the post they have left. You will inform them of the orders that have been given permitting them to remain in service ‘till their account shall have been settled, if they prefer it to being furloughed—and of the allowance of pay which has been made to the army at large & in which they are to be included. You will represent to them, that their accounts cannot be settled with out their officers whom they have left behind them at Lancaster. You will represent to them with coolness but energy the impropriety of such irregular proceedings, and the danger they will run by persisting in an improper conduct. You will assure them of the best intentions in Congress to do them justice; and of the absurdity of their expecting to procure it more effectually by intemperate proceedings. You will point out to them the tendency which such proceedings may have to raise the resentments of their country and to indispose it to take effectual measures for their relief. In short you will urge every consideration in your power to induce them to return; at the same time avoiding what ever may tend to irritate. If they persist in coming to town, you will give the earliest notice to us of their progress and disposition. Should they want provisions, you will assure them of a supply, if they will re main where they are, which you are to endeavour to persuade them to do in preference to coming to town. I am Sir, Yr. most Obed serv. A Hamilton In behalf of the Committee 1 FC (DNA: PCC, item 38). In the hand of Alexander Hamilton. JCC, 24:415-16. 1 This committee, consisting of Hamilton, Oliver Ellsworth, and Richard Peters, was appointed this day “to confer with the Executive Council of Pennsylvania and to take such measures as they shall judge and find necessary,” in response to intelligence re ceived from Richard Buder and William Henry on the march of mutineers from Lan caster to Philadelphia, for which see JCC, 24:405n; and the following entry, note 3.
