354 June 21,1783 careful of myself. For I confess, though I never despaird of the State, there has been a Time when disasters crowded so thick upon us, that I held Life very cheap; but the bullets pass’d by & a brighter Sun dis- pelld the Clouds. How strangely has the Storm thundered through every State in the Union, & the whole is succeeded by a fine Horizon. After the Capture of Cornwallis’s Army & the pretty general Expulsion of the enemy from the Southern States, & returning to civil Life, I took my Seat in the general Assembly & on May last was a Year I was chosen one of the Delegates in Congress of the State of No. Carolina. On the last Month I was re-elected and tho I have wished that with the War my Attention to public Business might cease, I have entered on the second Year of the Delegation. You I think was one of two or three to whom I confided the Secret that I was coming immediately for America when I left London. You know that I happened to fall among Thieves on my Way or what is as bad, among Traitors & Scoundrels. One of the Junto has since given me personal Satisfaction and the others have fully satisfyd the world that they are what I have just styled them. I confess I have found that more fortitude was required, coolly to despise an unjust charge than to face an Enemy, It was the exercise of practical Philosophy & the severest Tryal of Patriotism I ever experienced. I think I committed to your Care a small Packet of Papers sealed up. They were, some of them, of value. And having no particular Atten tion to the rest of the Articles I left in London, I flattered myself those Papers would be safe in your Hands. Be so good as cover them as a Packet of Letters and direct them to this Place for me. As I have not for a considerable Time seen my family and may probably be absent from this three or four months, towards the beginning of Winter, in order to pay some attention to my private Affairs. You will be so good as inclose the whole Packet under another Cover directed to the Dele gates in Congress for the State of North Carolina. If I should be out of Town when it arrives, my Collegues will receive it and retain or for ward it as they may judge proper. I suspect Dr Ewing is not a very punctual Correspondent; however I shall drop a Line to your father & to yr Sister & try to secure an An swer to your Letters of which I shall assure them care shall be taken. You it seems have been unfortunate; for I cannot suppose you have neglected your duty, you have but two children. I hope Mrs. Ruston is in good Health. I hope she retains her Enthusiasm for America. I wish she could come to it & had a Dozen boys to bring with her. Be pleased present her wth my Respects. I have the Honor to be, with the utmost Consideration, yr obdt hble Serv, Hu Williamson P.S. The Spirit of Emigration we have Reason to believe will again pre vail in difft. Parts of Europe in which Case I presume that Pennsylva
