June 23, 1783 355 will not as formerly be the only Place of Resort. It is certainly more easy to live in a southern Climate, for Planters especially, where the Winter is more moderate. N. Carolina is generally accounted sickly and it has some Claim to that Character along the sea Shore in the flat Country, but the rest of the State is second to no Part of America in Point of Health. I have not ventured on this Assertion from strong prejudices in favour of that State, to which I am strongly attached nor from the Desire of improving my own Property which is consid erable in that State, but from attentive observation in the Course of several Years. And by the way unless I am mistaken & unless I shall be greatly disappointed N Carolina will in the Course of a few Years be a Place of great Trade. RC (PHi: Coxe Papers). 1 Dr. Thomas Ruston (1739?-! 804) of Chester Co., Pa., had graduated from the Col lege of New Jersey (1762) and the Royal College of Physicians in Edinburgh (1765) where Williamson and Benjamin Rush were fellow students. He remained in Great Britain for the next twenty years during which he married Mary Fisher, daughter of William Fisher and niece of John Fisher, a governor of the Bank of England. He en tered his father-in-law’s brokerage business in London before the war, but resumed the practice of medicine at the Devon and Exeter Hospital, 1777-84. Ruston returned to Philadelphia in 1785 where he practiced and published several works on medicine and plunged into speculative bank and land schemes that eventually led to personal disaster. See the Ruston Collection, DLC; and Lyman Butterfield, ‘The Milliner’s Mission in 1775; or, The British Seize a Treasonable Letter from Dr. Benjamin Rush,” WMQ 8 (April 1951): 198-201. Theodorick Bland to James Madison Dear Sr. [June 23-25? 1783] i In consequence of the determination of Congress on Saturday, 2 I took the necessary measures, to put myself in a Situation, to fulfill their intentions as far as concernd myself & Family. I wrote to the President, and to Mercer 3 —from the former I have got no decisive answer, from the latter none at all. I shall look on it as inglorious, and shamefull to quit my station whilst the majority of Congress shall maintain theirs in Philadelphia—and however imprudent, I as an In dividual may deem it that Congress or the members shd. trust their persons in the hands of a Mutinous army—without support—if they determine so to do—I on my part shall without hesitation share their fate. 4 It is my wish therefore that you wd as soon as possible let me know their final determination on this point—and particularly how matters stand respecting the determination of the Exe. Council &.c. that I may either return or send for my family accordingly—it being personally perfectly indifferent to me which I do—& you’ll oblige
