356 June 23, 1783 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Signature clipped. Madison later wrote “Theodk. Bland” at the close of this letter and endorsed it “Bland Theodk. June 22. 1783.” Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:187. 1 Although Madison may have docketed this letter ‘June 22” at a later date, it appears to have been written between the 23rd and 25th before Bland had received word of Elias Boudinot’s June 24 proclamation summoning Congress to meet in Princeton. Since Bland preferred living in the countryside and had rented a plantation near Philadelphia called Fairy Hill in 1781, it is reasonable to conjecture that he was residing at an estate some distance from the city. See these Letters, 17:573-74. 2 See JCC, 24:410. 3 Bland’s letters to Pres. Boudinot and John Francis Mercer have not been found. 4 For a contrary opinion on Bland’s response to the mutiny, see Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, July 4, 1783. Elias Boudinot to Elisha Boudinot My dear Brother Philada. 23 June 1783 I have only a moment to inform you, that there has been a most dangerous insurrection and mutiny among a few Soldiers in the Bar racks here. About 3 or 400 surrounded Congress and the Supreme Ex ecutive Council, and kept us Prisoners in a manner near 3 hours, tho’ they offered no insult personally. To my great mortification, not a Citi zen came to our assistance. The President and Council have not firm ness enough to call out the Militia, and allege as the reason that they would not obey them. In short the political Manoeuvres here, previous to that important election of next October, entirely unhinges Govern ment. This handful of Mutineers continue still with Arms in their hands and are privately supported, and it is well if we are not all Pris oners in a short time. Congress will not meet here, but has authorized me to change their place of residence. I mean to adjourn to Princeton if the Inhabitants of Jersey will protect us. I have wrote to the Gover nor particularly. I wish you could get your Troop of Horse to offer them aid and be ready, if necessary, to meet us at Princeton on Satur day or Sunday next, if required. I would not wish any thing to be made more public than is neces sary for the above purpose. I wish Jersey to shew her readiness on this occasion, as it may fix Congress as to their permanent residence. The Express will call for an Answer. Am in great Haste with Love to all, Yours Afftly. Elias Boudinot RC (NjP: Thorne Boudinot Collection).
