June 26,1783 367 Elias Boudinot’s Draft Statement on the Mutiny Philadelphia, [ca. June 26, 1783] 1 On Saturday the 21 June, being informed by Coll Hamilton, that there was reason to believe that the Soldiers in the Barracks who had mutinied & cast off the Command of their Officers, was premeditat ing a Scheme for plundering the Bank the following Evening, and that it would be prudent to summon the Members to meet in Con gress—at 12 oClock I issued Summons’s to meet in half an hour. At tended Congress, when 6 States with several individual Members being present upwards of 300 Armed Soldiers of the Pennsylvania Line appeared before the State House & surrounded the same. Congress sent for Genl St Clair & requested to know the meaning of so hostile an Appearance round the House. He informed, that the Soldiers at the Barracks had cast off all authority of their Officers & had marched under the direction of a number of Sergeants to the State House in a mutinous & menacing manner. The President of the Sup. Ex. Council of the State came in & pre sented a Paper he had reed from the sd Sergeants purporting that they requested to be authorized to appoint Officers from their own Body in the room of those who had deserted them, 2 that they would wait 20 Minutes for an Answer, and if not reed they would turn in an enraged Soldiery on them & they must abide the Consequence. On reading this, Congress determined that they would not deliber ate on or determine any Business while Surrounded in so menacing a Manner—but directed Gen St. Clair by such Means as were in his Power, to remove the mutineers to the Barracks immediately. Genl. St. Clair soon after returned & informed Congress that he hoped they would return to their quarters quietly. Congress left the House & passed thro’ the ranks of Mutineers without opposition. When the President had got half way home—6 or 7 of the Men followed him with their Arms & requested his return, but on his way one of the Sergeants met him & desired him not to regard the Men who had gone without order. The Mutineers returned to their Barracks with Drums beating & fifes playing. Before the Members left the room they directed The President to send an Express to the Comr in Chief, informing him it was their request that he should advance a Body of Troops towards Philadelphia for the purpose of supporting the dignity of the Govern ment. The President wrote accordingly. Saturday Afternoon—Sum moned Congress to meet at 6 oClock. Met accordingly & came to sev eral resolutions. 3 print resolutions. Sunday Morning forwarded resolutions by Express to the Comr in Chief. 4
