368 June 26, 1783 It being reported that the Mutineers had it in Contemplation to seize the Members of Congress at their Lodgings the next night, the Presid gave Notice to the Members of the report. Genl St. Clair reported that the Mutineers had taken Possession of the Powder House & public Magazines by placing Centinels over them. Monday Morning wrote by Express to Gov Livingston 5 & vice Presid of New Jersey informing of the Transaction of Saturday & the design of Congress in Case of the Contingencey mentioned in resolu tion of removing into Jersey. Monday Evening—Coll. Humpton, Coll Porter, Coll Robinson & officers of the Penns. Line called on the Presidt. & in formed him that they were appointed a Committee by the Body of Officers of that Line to wait on him and to assure him of their utter Abhorrence of every part of the Conduct of their men (the Muti neers) That they were determined at all Events & risques; never to take the Command of them again on any Terms without the appro bation of Congress. That they were ready to act under the direction of Congress in any way and in any Manner Congress should think Proper and therefore were instructed to wait the Presid orders which they would strictly obey. That their not offering their Services sooner arose from the Suddeness of the Emergency & the Confusion that ensued. Tuesday Morning—Coll Robinson reported in Presence of Genl St. Clair that the Evening before the Sergeants had presented a Comis sion to &c. 6 print. That the officer refused, & it was sent a 2d Time but again refused, when they threatned instant Death if he did not accept it, which he did. That this Morning the Troops were getting Drunk very fast it being issuing day, and made a very riotous appearance. Tho it was said by the Sergeants that they were designing Submission by a Paper then drawing up. Tuesday 2 oClock The Committee reported. 7 print The Presid immediately summoned the Members to meet at Prince ton on Thursday next agreeable to resolution. He also issued a Procla mation,8 print, & had it put in all the Papers & set off for Princeton. Wednesday Noon, reed, the address of the People of Trenton by the Hands of the Vice Presid of the State to Congress assuring them of their Support, print—and a Certificate of Lodging provided for about 60 Persons. 9 MS (DLC: Boudinot Papers). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. 1 Although no printed copy of this statement has been found, Boudinot obviously wrote it for publication as he inserted instructions to “print” various documents men tioned therein at five points in his draft. Because the last event noted occurred on June 25 “Wednesday Noon”—it seems probable that he drafted this explanation of Con gress’ response to the Philadelphia mutiny soon thereafter.
