June 26,1783 369 2 This document is in PCC, item 38, fol. 27; and Pa. Council Minutes, 13:655. s See JCC, 24:410. 4 Apparently Boudinot’s June 21 letter to Washington written at “11 O’clock P.M.” 5 That is, Boudinot to William Livingston, June 23, 1783. 6 This “Commission” from the “Board” of non-commissioned officers to Capt. James Chrystie of the Second Pennsylvania Regiment is in PCC, item 38, fol. 26; and Pa. Coun cil Minutes, 13:663. 7 See Committee of Congress to Boudinot, June 24, 1783. 8 That is, Boudinot’s Proclamation of June 24. 9 These two documents, dated June 24 and June 25, respectively, are in PCC, item 46, fols. 83-88. See also Boudinot to John Cox, July 3, note 1. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Princeton June 26t. 1783 Dear Sir, 9 °Clock in the Evening I take the first Moment of Leisure since our Arrival here, to inform your Excellency that Congress have removed to this Place. The rea sons of our Conduct, I cannot delay the Post to give you in full. They are in short contained in the enclosed Proclamation. 1 I think my last was on Monday, 2 the Committee appointed to Confer with the Presi dent & Council of the State, could not prevail to have the Militia called out to suppress the Rioters. They delayed till Tuesday 2 “Clock in hopes of the good Sense of the Council finally prevailing, but find ing all ineffectual & being told by the President as the Opinion of Council, that unless the Mutineers should go farther than they had done (viz. the making Congress & Council Prisoners) the Militia would not turn out, the Committee advised me to summon Congress agreeable to the resolution of Saturday. I accordingly issued the en closed Proclamation & left the City. This Measure roused & alarmed the Council & Citizens and they began to see their own danger. On being informed that a Plan was in Contemplation to attack the Bank, the Militia to the amount of 100 were called out & kept under Arms all Tuesday Night. In the Morning the Proclamation getting among the Soldiers they also were alarmed, and began a Negotiation and many of them have laid down their Arms and it is said have empeached 5 of their Offi cers as at the Bottom of the Business. I wish some Citizens of Note may not be among the Number—two of the former viz Capt. Car berry & Lt. Sullivan made off as soon as they heard of the Submis sion. I am in hopes the Mutiny will be crushed. However at all Events the Members of Congress here, wish to see the detachment called for by Congress, come on. I write this as an Individual that your Excy. may be duly informed of what has passed. I should be glad to see your Excly with the detach ment if consistant with your other Duties.
