June 27, 1783 371 RC (O: St. Clair Papers). 1 Internal evidence indicates that this Thursday evening could only have been June 26, just shortly after Congress’ decision to remove to Princeton and before the inten tions of “the Lancaster Soldiers” were known. Belmont (modern Fairmont Park) was the Peters estate located on the west bank of the Schuykill approximately a mile and one half below the Falls. 2 That is, Peters’ company of Philadelphia militia. PMHB23 (October 1899): 394. John Rutledge to Jacob Read Sir, 1 Philada. Thursday Eveng [June 26, 1783] 2 I would have been at Princeton, before this will reach you, but, one of my Feet is much swelled, & very painful—some people wd. call it a Touch of the Gout. Therefore, &, as I think it doubtful, whether a suffi cient Number of Members will meet to form a Congress, or, whether they will stay at Princeton, above a few days, (for, it seem’d to be the opinion of the Members whom We saw at the President’s on Tuesday, that Congress wd. return when a proper Force was procured to suppress the Revolt, & preserve the Peace,) &, as travelling in such hot Weather, is very disagreeable, I shall deter setting off, till I hear from you. Be pleased to inform me, by To Morrow’s Stage, what States have met, & whether they purpose to remain at Princeton, & for how long a Time—that I may make my Arrangements, accordingly. If you should want only one Member, & will send to Bristol, for Mr. Beresford, I sup pose he will attend, till I get up. 3 Pray give your Letter, for me, to Major Jackson. I have directed him how to forward it. Sir, yr. most obedt. servt, J. Rutledge RC (NN: Miscellaneous Folders). 1 Read, a South Carolina delegate, had first attended Congress on June 17. See JCC, 24:396. 2 Rutledge clearly wrote this letter two days after Pres. Elias Boudinot issued his June 24 proclamation summoning Congress to Princeton, N.J. 3 South Carolina delegate Richard Beresford had gone to nearby Bucks Co., Pa., for reasons of health and did not attend Congress until the end of July. See Beresford to Read, July 6, 1783. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Princeton 27th. June 1783 The news of the removal of Congress from Philada. to this place will no doubt have reached you before now. It is a step they were obliged to take by the scandalous neglect of the Executive of Pennsylvania, to
