June 29,1783 375 sioned officers to represent their grievances and they were at last glad of a pretext for going away. Congress judged it proper to use coertion upon the occasion & hav ing sent an order to the Commander in Chief for a detachment of troops, at the same time called for the assistance of the militia. The conduct of the executive of this state was to the last degree weak & dis gusting. In short they pretended it was out of their power to bring out the militia, without making the experiment. This feebleness on their part determined the removal of Congress from a place where they could receive no support; and I believe they will not easily be induced to return. The removal and a proclamation by the President announcing to the mutineers that extremities would be persued against them have intimidated them into a submission. They have impeached two of their officers Carbury & Sullivan, who immediately fled. A few others are suspected. It is to be lamented that the offers from our state have not been upon a more acceptable plan; 1 it is probable if they had been, the scales would incline in our favour. I wish the Legislature were sitting and would enlarge them. To your Excellency I need not urge the advantages that will accrue to a state from being the residence of Congress. I have the honor to be Yr. Excellency’s Most Obed serv A Hamilton RC (NN: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:407-8. 1 For New York’s invitation to Congress to locate the Continental government at Kingston, see Elias Boudinot to the States, June 10, note. Alexander Hamilton to James Madison Dear Sir Princeton June 29th. 178[3] I am informed that among other disagreeable things said about the removal of Congress from Philadelphia it is insinuated that it was a contrivance of some members to get them out of the state of Pensylva- nia into one of those to which they belonged—and I am told that this insinuation has been pointed at me in particular. Though I am persuaded that all distinterested persons will justify Congress in quitting a place where they were told they were not to ex pect support (for the conduct of the Council amounted to that) yet I am unwilling to be held up as having had an extraordinary agency in the measure for interested purposes when the fact is directly the re verse. As you were a witness to my conduct and opinions through the whole of the transaction, I am induced to trouble you for your testi mony upon the occasion. I do not mean to make a public use of it;
