376 June 29, 1783 but through my friends to vindicate myself from the imputations I have mentioned. I will therefore request your answers to the following questions: Did that part of the resolutions which related to the removal of Congress originate with me or not? Did I as a member of the Committee appear to press the departure; or did I not rather manifest a strong disposition to postpone that event as long as possible, even against the general current of opinion? I wish you to be as particular & full in your answer as your memory will permit. I think you will recollect that my idea was clearly this: that the mutiny ought not to be terminated by negotiation—that Congress were justifiable in leaving a place where they did not receive the sup port which they had a right to expect; but as their removal was a mea sure of a critical and delicate nature—might have an ill appearance in Europe—and might from events be susceptible of an unfavourable in terpretation in this country—it was prudent to delay it ’till its necessity became apparent, not only ’till it was manifest there would be no change in the spirit which seemed to activate the council, but ’till it was evident complete submission was not to be expected from the troops—that to give full time for this, it would be proper to delay the departure of Congress ’till the latest period which would be compati ble with the idea of meeting at Trenton or Princeton on Thursday— perhaps even ’till Thursday morning. I am Sir, Yr. most Obed serv 1 FC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). In Hamilton’s hand, signature clipped. 1 Hamilton apparently did not send this letter, but upon returning to Philadelphia the following week sent a considerably revised version instead, for which see Hamilton to Madison, July 6, 1783. John Rutledge to Jacob Read Dr. Sir, Philada. Sunday Evening [June 29, 1783] 1 I have, just now, reed, your Letter of Friday. I am sorry to tell you, that the Pain & Swelling, of which, in my Letter by Major Jackson, I complained, have produced a regular & severe Fit of the Gout, which has prevented my getting out of Bed to day, nor can the doctor give me any Assurances when I may expect to be rid of this Complaint. However, as soon as I can travel to Princeton I certainly will be pleased to tell this to Mr. Izard. I am much concerned that my Illness makes it necessary for him to stay there, in order to have the State repre sented—but, it cannot be expected, that he shd. remain after the Ar rival of his Family, tho’ the State shd. by his Absence, be, for a short Time, unrepresented. This Afternoon, a Mr. Crowley arrived here
