June 30, 1783 377 from Charles-Town, & brought the inclosed Letter & Gazettes—no Letter for either you, Mr. Izard or myself. The publick Papers are at my House, & shall be delivd. to Crowley, whenever he is ready to take ’em. Mr. Readhead will sail for Chas. Town, in 4 or 5 days. I wish you & Mr. Izard wd. write to the Governor by him. If you will send your Letter to me, I will deliver it to Mr Readhead. I write this in Bed & in great Pain. My Complimts. to Mr. Izard. I am, Sir, yr. most obedt. Servt, J. Rutledge RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 For the dating and context of this letter, see Rutledge to Read, June 26, 1783. Rut ledge did not attend Congress again until September. Elias Boudinot to Robert Morris Sir, Princeton 30th June 1783 I have the honor of informing you, that I laid your letter of this morning before Congress, 1 and as there was no entry on our Journals relating to your leaving the City they thought it sufficient to direct me to inform you, that they had no objections to your returning to Philadelphia and resuming the business of your department. On this information I doubt not but that you will immediately proceed to the City accordingly. 2 I shall be glad of a line now and then, if any thing turns up worth communicating. I have the honor &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 Morris’ letter to Boudinot of this date is in PCC, item 137, 2:593-94; and Morris, Pa- pers (Ferguson), volume 8, forthcoming. 2 Morris’ activities and meetings with various officials and members of Congress dur ing and following the mutiny of the Pennsylvania troops are recorded in the following revealing entries from the official diary of the superintendent of finance. “June 20th. The Honble. Mr. Peters, Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Elsworth committee of Congress respecting the Mutineers from Landcaster, we had a long Conference and I agreed that such as have not received the Months Pay for January shall be paid in Specie and the three Months Pay shall be delivered in Notes—but the Mutineers to be paid in Landcaster only.... “Various other applications and a great deal of Time consumed in Consultations re specting the Mutineers.... “June 21st. His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania & Colo. Humpton called to communicate the intelligence they had received of the designs formed by the mutinous Souldiers. I advised as I have constantly done from the first information on this Subject a general call on the Militia.... “I sent for Thomas Willing Esqr. President of the Bank and informed him of the dan gerous Temper of the Soldiery in order that such precautions might be taken as the Di rectors should judge proper, just as Mr. Willing was going from the Office Word was brought that the Soldiers are under Arms and Marching for the State House.
