378 June 30, 1783 “The Honble. Mr. Hamilton & Mr. Fitzsimmons called at different Times this day to confer on the present state of Things. “Major Genl. St. Clair, Major Jackson, Mr. Gorham and others on the same business. When the Soldiers marched up Market Street I went over to my own House to apprize my family and prevent improper alarms, from thence I went to a Friends House to wait the Event and after the Soldiers departed from the State House I returned to this Of fice, sent to the President of the Congress to know if Congress had any Commands, there being none I went agreable to engagement to Club, returned in the Evening waited on the President of the State and Strongly urged the calling out of the Militia to quell the Riot &c. “June 23d. His Excy. The Minister of France, Honble. Colo. Hamilton, Charles Thompson Esqr., Tench Francis Esqr. at different Times to consult respecting the re volted Soldiers.... “June 24th.... The Honble. Mr. Fitzsimmons, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Hamilton & Mr. Peters, on the business of the revolted Soldiers, these Gentlemen gave me notice to prepare myself for departure from this City with Congress as it appeared probable that they will remove this afternoon, no steps being taken or promised by the Executive of the State to protect them from a repetition of Insult. “Charles Thompson Esqr. came to consult on the business of removing and to apply for Cash. “Majorjackson on the same Subject. “Colo. Hamilton called to inform me that the Committee had reported to his Excel lency the President of Congress that it is necessary for Congress to adjourn to Prince Town. His Excellency the President of Congress also called at my House to give me no tice and wrote to me likewise. Colo. Hamilton observed that this movement must be kept secret as the Soldiers if it came to their knowlege might be tempted to Seize either mem bers of Congress or myself as Hostages to Treat for their Pardon &c. in obedience to these Sentiments Mr. G. Morris and myself departed in the Evening for Prince Town— first Committing my Office and all the Papers therein to the care of Mr. Samuel Lyon the Secy, with Orders to keep constantly in the Office during my absence and in Case the Soldiers came with Mischievous intent to inform them that the whole Army are inter ested in those Papers and indeed all America and that they must expect the resentment of the whole if any distruction is Committed. I also desired Mr. Lyon to inform Mr. Mille- gan and the other Officers of my Department that the President of Congress and myself are of opinion that the public Business shall stop un till further Orders. “June 25th. This day we arrived at Tren Town and took our Quarters There—and by the Secretary’s Register it appears there were sundry applications at the Office. ‘June 26th. Went from Trenton to Prince Town but Congress did not make a House so we returned to Trenton and remained there Friday, Saturday & Sunday. ‘June 30th. Paid another Visit to Congress at Prince Town and wrote to His Excel lency the President for leave to return to Philadelphia and resume my Official Business, after which returned to Trenton, and on Tuesday July the first Received a Letter from his Excellency the President with leave to return, then set out and arrived on Wednes day. ” Robert Morris Papers, DLC. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir Princeton 30th June 1783. I had the honor of addressing a long Letter to your Excellency from this place a few days ago, 1 which I hope you will receive. The events which have taken place since are easily recounted. I informed you that
