June 30, 1783 379 the mutineers had begun to give way. The whole of them have since laid down their Arms, but have been suffered to resume them. The Party from Lancaster have been Marched back again under their offi cers, and the rest, (as we are informed,) are dismissed on furlough. This is a new way of settling such business. How the officers will ac count for it I am at a loss to know. Eleven hundred men from head Quarters will be here this evening, on their way to Philadelphia, under the command of Major General Howe, to enquire into this Business. Some Gentlemen want Congress to follow them, but others are extremely averse to return to Philadel phia again. This Town is too small for our Accommodation, tho’ the People are very obliging. I wish to know whether the inhabitants of Wilmington would be pleased with such guests, and whether the Academy might be had for them to sit in. If good Accommodations could be had I would move that we should adjourn to that place. If the hill above the Town has been, or is to be, offered for their perma nent residence, perhaps such a motion, on such information, might be carried. Several flattering addresses have been read in Congress to day, 2 (the first day of our doing business here,) from the Governors of the College, the Inhabitants of Trenton & Princeton, and the Gover nor of the State. I am told the Batallions in the State, or at least in the neighbourhood, are preparing addresses, and I submit it to your Ex cellency whether such a Measure, if pretty generally adopted, would not have a happy effect both at home and abroad. The dignity and au thority of the United States have been grossly insulted. It is natural therefore for those who are favourers of the federal Government to declare their readiness to support and maintain it. If this had been done in Philadelphia, and accompanied with corresponding exer tions, we would not have left that City; but instead of this Congress was shamefully neglected, and no measures taken for their protection ’till after they had left the City. Then the Militia was called out to defend private property, but it seems few of them obeyed the call. I am here alone Neither Mr. Bedford nor Dr. Tilton have made their appearance. I expect Mr. Bedford here every day. There are but seven states on the floor, so that perfect unanimity is requisite in order to do any business. Your Excellency will pardon the imperfection of this dispatch, which I have no time at present either to copy or correct, and believe me to be with great sincerity, Your most obt. & most humble sevt, E. Me.Comb RC (DLC: Nicholas Van Dyke Papers). 1 See McComb to Van Dyke, June 27, 1783. 2 See JCC, 24:411-12n.2; and Elias Boudinot’s letters to John Cox and to Samuel Smith ofjuly 3 and to Smith and George Morgan ofjuly 4.
