380 June 30, 1783 James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. June 30. 1783. My last informed you of the mutinous insult which was offered to Congs, on the Saturday preceding. 1 On the Evening after the insult Congs, met and resolved that the Executive Council sd. be informed that in their opinion effectual measures ought to be immediately taken for suppressing the mutiny & supporting the public authority— that a Come. sd. confer with the Executive and in case no Satisfactory grounds sd. appear of adequate & prompt exertions for those pur poses, the Presidt. sd. with the advice of the Come, be authorized to summon the members to meet at Trenton or Princeton in N.J.—that an Express be sent to Genl. Washington for a detachment of regular troops. The Conference with the Executive produced nothing but doubts concerning the disposition of the Militia to act unless some ac tual outrages were offered to persons or property. They even doubted whether a repetition of the insult to Congs, wd. be a sufficient provo cation. Neither the exhortations of the Friends of Presidt. Dickenson nor the reproaches of his enemies could obtain an experiment on the temper of the Militia. During the attendance on the ultimate determi nations of the Executive reports from the Barracks were in constant vi bration. At one moment the Mutineers were penitent and preparing submissions: the next they were meditating more violent measures. Sometimes the Bank was their object; at other times the seizure of the members of Congress, with whom they imagined an indemnity for their offence might be purchased. On Teusday about two OClock, the efforts of the Govt, being despaired of, and the reports from the Bar racks being unfavorable, the Committee advized the President to sum mon the members to meet in N.J. which he did verbally as to the members present, leaving a general proclamation behind him for the Press. 2 I left Princeton on Friday evening when six States only had met. Rhode Islad. made a seventh on Saturday. To day I suppose they will be on business. I shall set out this afternoon, on my return. 3 Since Congress left the City the Mutiny has been entirely extin guished; the Mutineers having submitted, and most of them accepted furloughs under the Resolution of Congress on that subject. At the time of submission they betrayed their leaders, the chief of whom prove to be a Mr. Carbery, a deranged officer, and a Mr. Sullivan a Lieutenant of Horse, both of whom made their escape. Some of the most active Sergeants have also ran off. The precise object & plan of the Conspiracy are unascertained. When I left Princeton no answer had been reed, from Genl. Washington. 4 The removal of Congs, under the circumstances which gave birth to it, is a subject of much conversation and criticism. Many of those who
