June 30, 1783 385 again on Monday. He then told me he expected my company to dine with him. I said I understood the gentlemen had agreed to dine to gether at a tavern, and as their coming to this place must have been very unexpected, I fancied Mrs. Stockden (his sister at whose house he lodged) 7 could not be prepared to receive company and I had rather be excused. He told me he did not know whether the gentle men had fixed their plan or taken arrangements for dining together though they talked of it & must certainly adopt some such measure if they continued in this place, But that he would expect my company to dine with him that day. I then enquired what plan they had adopted, & found they had yet come to no determination. Some had received invitations to dine with the president, others from private gentlemen, & some purposed to go to a tavern. I then conversed with individuals to know what steps they meant to take. Bland’s dignity was so hurt that he would never return. Izard could never think of returning unless the citizens of Philadelphia would make reparation for the wounded honor of Congress. Hamilton’s resentment was wholly bent against the president of the state and nothing but his ruin would satisfy him. I wished them to consult their reason and not their passions, to con sider the interest of the Union and not private resentments. That a good use might be made of the late occurrence, if improved solely to the purpose of impressing the states with the necessity of taking speedy and effectual measures to comply with the obligations & per form the promises which Congress had made on their behalf. That the honor of Congress was safe if they returned speedily to their for mer place of residence and did not mix private passion with public measures. That the object which some seemed to have in view would I feared not answer their purpose. That an attempt to ruin the Prest. & criminate the council might foment the divisions & party animosity which unhappily too much prevailed in the state but would be far from strengthening the Union & supporting the federal government. That by directing their resentment against the Pres. & council, or at tempting to set the citizens against them, they might raise up friends & rather strengthen than ruin them. They could not be ignorant that there were many in Philada. who were unfriendly to our cause, who though they did not love the presidt. hated Congress & would espouse his cause against them or their cause against him not from a regard for one more than the other but from private resentments & with a view to embarrass public measures & that such a crop of dissensions might be sown in the state as might in the end involve it in the dispute or at least incapacitate it from pursuing those measures that were es sential for the public safety. That in my Opinion the fate of America hung by a slender thread & it behoved Congress to act with caution. That I never had seen a period in which there was a greater necessity for the exercise of prudence & a temperate Conduct, & I was glad considering the temper of the members that they had not yet been
