386 June 30, 1783 able to proceed to business. I told Hamilton freely that I entirely dis approved his plan, that I saw clearly it would give pain to the true friends of America and pleasure to its enemies: that the step Congress had yet taken required no justification of themselves or crimination of others. It was sufficient that they thought themselves in danger & re moved out of the way of it & then returned to their duty and business when it was removed, and only pursued wise measures to present the like in future. And I wished him to reflect how far he might hazard the private characters of the present members who had but lately come to Congress, & who, it might be said, had by their rash, unwise & intemperate conduct dashed in pieces & overturned a fabric begun by their wiser predecessors & raised to such a height by the blood of so many thousands. I found myself at times warm, however I deter mined to unburthen my mind. I cannot forbear reprobating the conduct of our friend in Market Street, 8 and much I fear that his cursed pride will undo his country. He has his virtues but they are suited to other times. Could he have submitted to the least soothing language I am persuaded he would have found or at least the situation of affairs here would very soon have created a conciliating disposition in Congress. And affairs might have been restored to their former channel. But his passions are too ungovernable and his pride too great to acknowledge an error, till I fear it will be too late. After a good deal of Conversation with individuals & sometimes with several together, and no determination yet come to, where to dine, the presidents servant came to inform me that dinner was ready & the president waited for me. I therefore went and dined with him. There were three or four members who dined there. After dinner I had an Opportunity of conversing with the president and found he was de sirous of returning. He said freely that this place would not do. The people had exerted themselves & put themselves to inconveniences to accommodate the members but it was a burden which they could not bear long. That there was no place where the Minister could be accom modated. In short it would not do. And that Congress must either go back to Philada. or remove to some other place. But that the members were not yet in temper, that they must have time to cool. Yesterday we had news that Major genl Howe is advancing with about Eleven hundred troops. They will be in this town to day. Ellery and Arnold arrived late on Saturday evening so that to day they may proceed to business. In my next I shall be able to give you some ac count of their disposition. I have written with more freedom because Mr Bond 9 carries this & will deliver it. Peter behaves well, his horses are just under my Eye in Mr Morgans stables & he lodges & diets with the family. My carriage is also safe under cover. I hope you and the family are well and that Page is a good boy. I am afraid you will have some trouble with the cow. I think
