388 July 1, 1783 self the honor of enclosing to your Excellency the copies of your let ters agreeably to your request, 1 and should be much obliged by the like favour with regard to the Message sent in to you by the Serjeants on Saturday 21st June. 2 I also have the honor to enclose a copy of an Act of Congress of this day, 3 and by their directions to inform your Excellency that Genl. Howe, with a detachment of seven or eight hundred men, is marching into your State, and I expect will reach the City by the latter end of the week. Congress think it absolutely necessary to make a strict investigation into the late mutiny, as far as rests with them, and they depend on the exertions of the Executive in case it should reach beyond the military Jurisdiction. I have the honor &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 This letter, which Dickinson misdated ‘July 27th,” is in PCC, item 38, fols. 143-44. It contains no such request, but the following postscript suggests that Dickinson may sim ply have communicated it orally through Charles Thomson. “Mr Thomson who does Me the Honor of charging himself with this Letter, will deliver to Congress a Copy of the last proposals of the soldiers to Council, & of the Act of Council thereon.” 2 Dickinson enclosed this document with his July 3 reply to Boudinot, for which see PCC, item 38, fols. 27, 147; and Pa. Council Minutes, 13:655. ’ See JCC, 24:412-13. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dear Sir, Princeton July 1st. 1783 I do myself the Pleasure of enclosing a Line to your Excellency from Major General Howe, who arrived with his detachment, in this Neigh bourhood last Evening. 1 By the last Accounts from Philadelphia the Mutiny was entirely quelled and the Lancaster division had marched to that Town; but it is reported that after their Submission, Coll Humpton furloughed the greatest part of them. I hope it is not true, as Coll Humpton himself waited on me and in the Name of the Line, assured Congress that in no Case would they ever accept the Command of the Mutineers again without the express directions of Congress. This Satisfied Us so far as to prevent any prudential order of that kind. I have the Honor to be with the most perfect respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt & very Hble Ser Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Concerning Gen. Robert Howe’s troops at Princeton, Boudinot also wrote the fol lowing brief note to William Jackson, the assistant secretary at war, the next day.
