July 1, 1783 389 “The Presid. of Congress presents his most respectful Comps, to the Ass. Secry at War and informs him that it is the Sense of the Members of Congress present here making 7 States, that the detachmt under Ma. Gen. Howe be furnished with an additional ration of rum for the 3d & 4 days of July Instt. It is meant an additional ration for each day.” Colbourn Collection, MHi. Oliver Ellsworth to Joseph Reed Dear Sir Princeton Istjuly 1783 I am favoured with your Letter of 25th Ulto. How it came to be de layed I know not, but it did not get to my hands till yesterday Morn ing. That some people should affect to Believe that the departure of Congress was hasty is not surprising; their own justification depends upon propagating that opinion. I am however, fully perswaded that no honest, disinterested man in the World who is acquainted with the cir cumstances, can be of opinion that we could with propriety have staid longer in the City, after having been surrounded by an armed, & men acing Banditti, & after having applied in vain to the Executive Author ity for protection. I can not help thinking that if the Militia had been called upon, or if application had been made to the most virtuous, & respectable part of the Citizens, such a dishonour would never have been suffered. I hope your information may prove true, that the Mili tia Officers intend to vindicate their own characters. Until that is done, & a full assurance given to Congress that they may depend on protection, I am of opinion they will not return to Philadelphia. Some interest making and caballing has been among the Members, but a great majority feel the indignity which has been offered them, & shew a great disinclination to return. Genl. Howe is arrived here with about Eleven Hundred of the Massachusets Line & proceeds with them to morrow towards Philadelphia. The very extraordinary conduct of Col. Humpton in furloughing the Mutineers, at the very time he knew, from the Proclamation of the President, that Congress were ad journed to this place for the purpose of suppressing the Mutiny will embarrass us not a little. That proceeding, I hope, will be the subject of military investigation. We were not able to make a House until Monday, because both of the Rhode Island Members chose to con tinue in Philadelphia, to shew their courage; & we have now only seven States on the Floor; so that we must have unanimity, which is hardly ever to be expected, or we can do nothing. The Report of the Committee (Hamilton, Elsworth, & Peters) which had the repeated conferences with your President, & Council, has been made. 1 Some certain party Gentlemen object to it’s being printed by order of Congress. The Facts which are therein stated will exhibit the President & Council of Pennsylvania to the World, in such colours as will not be
