390 JulyI, 1783 very pleasing to the brave & virtuous part of the community. If the lat ter do not make their sentiments very explicitly known, I shall be much disappointed. I am determined the Report shall be printed ei ther with, or without the order of Congress. 2 Your precaution respect ing your Letter was very proper. The party politicks of Philadelphia are very plainly to be seen here; & therefore when you do me the hon our of writing to me again, it will be better to follow the example I now give you, as I know your hand. I am Dr. Sr., with great regard, Your most Obt. Servt. RC (NHi: Joseph Reed Papers). In Ellsworth’s hand, though not signed. 1 Actually this committee submitted three reports this day, but Ellsworth is referring to the third of these. See JCC, 24:412-21. 2 It was printed in the Pennsylvania Packet on July 10, in the Pennsylvania Journal on July 12, and in the Freeman’sJmimalon]\i\y 16. James McHenry to John Henry Dr. Sir. Princtown 1 July 1783 You will have no reason to blame me for my silence, and yet my be ginning with an excuse seems to imply its justice. I left you in Annapo lis and when I left Baltimore I understood you were still there, and had proposed to go down the Bay with the governor; from all which I conclude this letter will be fortunate should it even now find you at home enjoying that retirement which I long to experience. I had scarcely entered Congress when the cession of territory by Virginia was taken up. 1 You have seen the conditions. There had been a report on these conditions and this was to be argued. Congress hav ing embraced a conciliatory system, the question of right could not be opposed to the conditions. All that remained was to bring them down to what was reasonable. I carried an amendment to the second, which stripped Virginia of a source of charges against the United States, the extent of which it was impossible to ascertain. Finding that no other amendments would succeed, I had its further discussion postponed. To get as much as we can of this territory with the consent of Virginia seems to be the preponderating sentiment and indeed it may be, all things considered, the most prudent measure at present in our power. The United States are without force to support their claims. And should we delay receiving what Virginia is willing to give she may re voke the cession and open a land office. In this case there is no doubt but she will find purchasers, and that these will assert their claims. But without such an act the north west banks of the Ohio must in a little time be covered with the claims of adventurers, who will hold upon the title of occupancy. On the whole I am inclined to think, that we at
