JulyI, 1783 391 least risque advantages by delay, that may not be counterbalanced by any cession to be expected hereafter. You know the land Virginia re serves to herself, and to which she has no right by the King of G. Britain’s proclamation of 1763, lays between the Alleghany mountains and the Ohio. This it is said added to Virginia will make her too pow erful. But it appears to me, that in a very short time it would secede from the dominion, and become what Congress would make it, an in dependent republic. The laws enacted at Richmond would either not be known—have no efficacy, or be laughed over the Alleghany. No doubt you will have heard before this of our adjournment. You would be surprised at the event, and puzled for the cause. The en closed proclamation offers at a solution, which if unsatisfactory you must wait for a statement of the whole affair that will soon be pub lished by Congress. 3 I will only say, that the danger from the muti neers was real, that no support could be obtained from the Executive and that the citizens discovered no disposition [to] take arms. I know not whether this event will convince the States of their real situation, of the weakness of the confederation, and how very near we have approximated to anarchy & bankruptcy. It is time however, that all men should know, that a breath of wind would break the few fret ted threads that remain of the union; and that it is folly of the first rank [to] keep representatives responsible without their being pro vided with the means to discharge th[eir] trusts. How far this event may be favorable to the removal of Congress to Annapolis, I will not pretend to predict. To be out of Philadelphia is not to be in Annapolis, altho’ it brings Congress a step nearer this point, by lessening the chances for that place. In this question, private considerations will act contrary to the general good. The Southern delegates [have] a leaning to a cold climate, and the northern gentle men dread a warm one. I will work however, but it would be presump tion to suggest a favorable issue to my labors. The present instant is promising as it respects the votes of Virginia, North & South Carolina, but then Georgia and Maryland is unrepresented, so that nothing can be done but shuffle the cards and be patient. Write me on this perplexing western territory business and believe me most cordially and sincerely your friend & hble St James McHenry [PS.] No definitive treaty. RC (MdAA: Henry deposit). 1 McHenry had taken his seat on June 11, 1783. See JCC, 24:389. 2 See JCC, 24:406-7; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, June 20, 1783. 3 McHenry is referring to Elias Boudinot’s June 24 proclamation and Alexander Hamilton’s June 20 and July 1 committee reports, describing negotiations between con gressional representatives and the Pennsylvania government, which were entered on
