418 July 15,1783 In the evening Congress met and made a House and came to the resolutions contained in No. 5 5 and broke up without adjournment. The Committee not being able to meet the Council till Sunday morn ing were then prevailed on to wait for an answer till monday morning and then received the answer contained in the 2d Report No. 6. 6 However hoping that the Council would change their sentiments, the Comittee did not think proper to give me their advice till Tuesday at two O’Clock in the Afternoon. In the mean time the Mutineers kept in arms, refusing all obedience to their Officers, and in possession of the powder House and Magazines of Military Stores. On Tuesday morning the Officers reported to me that the preceding evening the Serjeants, notwithstanding some talk of a submission and return to their duty, had presented six officers with a commission each as on No. 7; 7 and on one refusing to accept it they threatened him with im mediate death—and that, at the time of the Report, they were getting very drunk and in a very riotous state. By the second Report of the Committee you will be acquainted with the particulars of the transac tion, with the addition that the behaviour of the six Officers was very mysterious and unaccountable. At two O’Clock agreeably to the ad vice of the Committee, I summoned Congress to meet at this place on Thursday the 26th of June; issued the Proclamation No. 8 8 and left the City. As soon as it was known that Congress was going, the Council were informed, that there was great reason to expect a serious attack on the Bank the night following, on which the President of the State col lected about One hundred Soldiers and kept Guard all night. On Wednesday it was reported that Congress had sent for the Comman der in Chief with the whole Northern Army; and the Militia of New- Jersey, who were to be joined by the Pennsylvania Militia, in order to quell the meeting; which was no otherwise true than ordering a de tachment of a few hundred men from the North River. The Serjeants being alarmed, soon proposed a submission, and the whole came in a Body to the President of the State, making a most submissive acknowl edgement of their misconduct, and charging the whole on two of the Officers, whom they had commissioned to represent their grievances, A Capt. Carbery and Lieutenant Sullivan, who were to have headed them, as soon as they should have proceeded to violences. These Offi cers immediately escaped to Chester and there got on board of a Ves sel bound to London. The Serjeants describe the plan laid by these Officers as of the most irrational and diabolical nature, not only against Congress and the Council, but also against the City and Bank. They were to be joined by straggling parties from different parts of the Country, and after executing their horrid purposes were to have gone off with their plunder to the East Indies. However incredible this may appear the letters No. 9 & 10 9 from Sullivan to Colo. Moyland, his
