July 15, 1783 419 Commanding Officer, from Chester and the Capes clearly shew that it was a deep laid scheme. It appears clearly to me that next to the con tinued care of divine Providence, the miscarriage of this plan is owing to the unexpected meeting of Congress on Saturday, and their de cided conduct in leaving the City, until they could support the fcederal Government with dignity. It is also said that two of the Citizens have been concerned in this wicked plot, but they are not yet ascertained. They were certainly en couraged by some of the lower class as well as by the general supine ness in not quelling the first movement. Some very suspicious circum stances attending the conduct of the other four Officers, who were commissioned by the Serjeants have caused them to be arrested. The whole matter has so far subsided. The detachment under Genl. Howe from the Northern Army has arrived in the vicinity of the City and a Court of enquiry is endeavouring to develope the whole affair. The Citizens are greatly chagrined at the predicament in which they stand and endeavour to lay the blame on the Council for not calling on them and proving them, while the Council justify themselves by the advice of the Militia officers, whom they called together for that purpose. The Citizens are universally petitioning Congress to return to the City, assuring us of their constant protection. You will excuse me for tiring you with so circumstantial an account, which nothing but the necessity of preventing the many falsehoods that are generally propagated on these occasions and the propriety of your being well informed, would ever have justified me in. I do myself the honor to send herewith the Newspapers, and par ticularly a Circular Letter of Genl. Washington to the different States, 10 which in my opinion gives the finishing stroke to his inim itable Character. I have committed this letter to the care of my younger Brother, who is bound for London, having been in the Merchant service at that port for several years, but who, I have the best evidence is well at tached to the interests of this Country, and who can inform you of many particulars relating to the State of things here. I have the honor to be &c. E.B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “The Honorable The Ministers Plenipotentiary of the United States &c. at Paris.” 1 Actually June 13. 2 At this point the following note appears in the margin: “letters from Colo. Buder & Colo. Henry, on the files of Congress.” These and the following enclosures (Nos. 1-10) have been printed with Boudinot’s letter in Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 1:6-29. 3 The following note appears in the margin: “See Journals of Congress July 1, 1783.” JCC, 24:413-15. 4 In the margin: “Message to Council by the Serjeants.” 5 In the margin: “Resolutions of Sat. 21 June.” 6 In the margin: “Seejournalsjuly I."JCC, 24:416-21.
