420 July 15,1783 7 In the margin: “See files of Congress.” 8 In the margin: “See page 47, this Book,” for which see Boudinot’s Proclamation, June 24, 1783. 9 In the margin: “See files of Congress.” See also Boudinot’s first letter to Washington of July 8, note 2. 10 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:483-96. Samuel Holten to John Swanwick Dear Sir. 1 Princeton 15th July 1783. I have been favor’d with your kind attention of the 4th instant. Your favorable opinion of me from a short acquaintance is highly flattering, & lays me under obligations, which it is not in my power to return, unless you will be pleased to accept the like address, which I Sincerely offer. I am sorry to see some publications in your newspapers from Philada. respecting the removal of Congress, they will answer no valuable pur pose, for Congress have ordered no publication upon the matter, & I trust never will, they only ordered the report of their committee to be entered on their Journals, & that was done even without a debate; it might be agreeable to some individuals to get Congress into a dispute with the state of Pennsyla. but I believe they will be disappointed. You will please to accept my thanks for your engagement to honor my notes, which the bearer will present: I am with particular respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 John Swanwick (1740-98), a long time employee of Robert Morris, was cashier of the Office of Finance and receiver of Continental taxes in Pennsylvania, and became a partner in the firm of Willing & Morris in September 1783. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), l:8n.l. Samuel Holten to Winslow Warren Dear Sir. Princeton 15th July 1783. I have been favor’d with your attention of the 2d instant, & have observed the contents, your submitting to my consideration the in closed directed to the President lays me under obligations; I have deliver’d the same, as I cou’d not have the least objection, & it has been read in Congress, & filed, & will be attended to when the ap pointments for the places you are pleas’d to mention comes under consideration; 1 If it shou’d be in my power to render you farther services it will give me pleasure. I am, with particular respect, your most obedient
