July 15,1783 421 FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Winslow Warren, son of James Warren, had written a July 2 letter to Pres. Elias Boudinot, which was read in Congress on July 8, offering himself as a candidate for the post of consul in Portugal. See JCC, 24:428n.l; and PCC, item 78, 24:399-402. See also Arthur Lee tojames Warren, August 13, 1783. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My Dear Sir Philada. July 15. 1783. Yesterdays post brought me no letter from you. The Contents of the inclosed paper make up every thing of consequence which I have for a subject at present. The enquiry into the Mutiny has not advanced far enough to bring forth any discoveries. An Address is circulating & will be generally signed by the Citizens here reciting to Congress the proofs they have heretofore given of attachmt. to the federal govt, professing a continuance of that attachmt. and declaring their readiness to support the dignity & privileges of Congs, in case the conveniency of this place for transacting the public affairs sd. give it a preference to others untill a final resi dence shall be fixed. 1 Mr. Lee arrived here the day before yesterday and goes to Princeton today. 2 Mr. Mercer’s indisposition, carries him to the Sea board of N. Jersey. My absence not producing any chasm in the Representation, and some private business requiring my stay here, I shall not return to Princeton for 7 or 8 days. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:225. 1 For this “Address of the Citizens of Philadelphia,” which was submitted to Congress on July 23, see Richard Peters to Thomas FitzSimons, July 23, 1783. 2 Arthur Lee took his seat in Congress on July 16. See JCC, 24:435. Richard Peters to Oliver Wolcott Dear Sir, Princeton July 15, 1783 I recieved your Letter of the 1st inst. I will procure a Search to be made for the Papers 1 in the Secretary’s Office as I was sure of there being there but was always told the contrary. I am so much used to such Accounts of the Backwardness of the States to comply with confederal Plans of Finance that I am not sur prized at the Intelligence you are pleased to communicate. Some
