July 16,1783 425 and that alone was sufficient to excite reflexions inexpressibly painful. Well aware that you would not wish me to be accused of levity in business, or suffer me to be suspected of preferring even the gratification of my heart, to the interests of my country, I said to myself—a public station is an enemy to peace, and there is no happiness but in the arms of my Peggy; I will therefore renounce its vain consequence to others; I will over come my fears, and speak to her parents to-morrow; she shall be mine, and the rest of the world may belong to the disciples of folly or the dupes of ambition. An instant, how ever, told me, that to please you, I must not desert the station in which I had been placed, and incur a public censure, but relying on the promise you had made to sweeten absence with an intercourse of letters, forbear to be precipitate, or to hurry you into a new condition of life, before I could render it agreeable to the sole guardian of my fate. Thus my amiable and beloved charmer, I felt, and I thought, till the appear ance of the punctual Davy informed me it was time to commence my journey. I stole softly to your room door, and gently kissed it, and prayed that your slumbers might be light, and your hours tranquil till I again lost my speech in looking at my Peggy, and again felt from her head tenderly reclined on my arm, more substantial pleasure, than a monarch experiences when first seated on his throne, or a conqueror enjoys, in the mo ment of his victories. “Ah’ my dear Peggy, till then, enliven the dull drudgery I must be engaged in by your cordial letters. You are too sensible, after my plighted faith, to think writing to me im proper; and I am too much interested in whatever you do, to require, what if done, would diminish my regard. Will my Peggy too, penetrate the disposition of her mother respect ing my passion, and hasten to remove a suspence which she must know is insufferably dis tressing. Let me but read your letters and have ease on this point, and I shall count the hours of absence as only interposed to heighten the happiness that awaits my return. Adieu my dear and beloved Peggy, and believe me unchangeably yours, James McHenry. “This is tuesday night, but as I cannot trust a letter to my Peggy in the common Stage box, I must keep it for a conveyance to which I can confide a name so very dear to my present and future felicity. Your brother will give it to you.” Steiner, Correspondence of James McHenry, pp. 59-60; and McHenry Papers, MdHi. 2 The following note, apparently in Caldwell’s hand, appears just below McHenry’s signa ture, and indicates that Jack could not resist the temptation of showing this letter to Peggy. “You will at my request return this in the morning—and give no intimation of your see ing it. Sorry I am to thus produce proofs of my knowledge of your Affairs—to authorize my writing on them.” James Madison to John Francis Mercer Dr Sir Philada. July 16 1783 The lucky arrival of our brother Lee who is gone on to Princeton has relieved me from the necessity of obeying your summons by Mr. Hawkins. 1 You will not therefore expect any Congressional news by this conveyance. A letter by the post from Mr. Ambler repeats his request that war rants in form may be sent by all the Delegates for the amount of their respective shares of his remittances. He adds that two bills one for £500, the other for upwards of £600 Va. Curry, have unexpectedly come into the Treasy. & that the Delegates may have the benefit of the good fortune by authorizing their friends in Va. to take out warrants for such
