July 17, 1783 427 ing Nagle’s rhetoric and conduct during the mutiny, see PCC, item 38, fols. 57-63. For additional documents concerning Nagle’s arrest, trial, and pardon, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:63, 67, 69; JCC, 24:509-10, 517n, 25:564-66; and Boudinot to Robert Howe, September 13, 1783. 3 Pennsylvania delegate James Wilson also wrote the following brief, cryptic note to Tench Coxe this day. “I am just going to Princeton; but will return on Saturday or Sun day next; and will then adjust the Matter you mention.” Coxe Papers, PHi. This is the only evidence that has been found to indicate that Wilson was in Princeton during July. That he attended for a time in August and September is clear from the journals (JCC, 24:493, 505, 507, 509, 25:537), although in Burnett, Letters, 7:lxxiv, he is not recorded as attending in Princeton until October 6. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dear Sir, Princeton 17th July 1783 I had the honor of receiving your Excellency’s favour relative to the promotions in General Hazen’s Regiment, 1 which was referred to the Secretary at War to report. The Assistant Secretary has accordingly re ported, 2 that there is no record of any such promotions in his Office. I informed Congress how the matter stood, but they chose to have an official report from the Secretary. The fact is that some time last April Genl. Hazen brought a number of Commissions promoting the Offi cers of his Regiment for me to sign; but finding a Report of a Commit tee of some Months’ standing relative to the reduction of this Regi ment, and that it had been referred to the Secretary at War to report and was then under consideration, I did not choose to sign them with out mentioning the matter in Congress. This I did and was directed by Congress not to sign them till further orders. A Committee was then appointed to consider this matter, who conferred, I believe, with Genl. Hazen and reported, and it is now under consideration. I mentioned this matter to General Hazen in April and assigned the order of Congress as the reason for my not signing them. The Commissions yet remain with me. I also received and laid before Congress your Excellency’s favour relative to the Commissioners in New York. 3 Yesterday Congress came to the Resolution, a copy whereof is enclosed 4 —But failing to make a House this morning by the sickness of one of the Members, it could not be read the second time so as to be compleat. However as I did not choose to miss the post, I have enclosed a copy that you may be apprised of it. It will be liable to an alteration in the diction tomorrow, tho’ from the unanimity of Congress, I think no alteration will be made. I have the honor to be, with the most perfect consideration and es teem, Your Excellency’s Obedient & very humb. Serv, Elias Boudinot
