July 19, 1783 433 and that I do not hate. This it is probable will operate against the in creased attentions you recommend, unless the encreased charms of the fair one you discribe, should shake my fealty to the one I conceal. Now will you swear that I am in love; and swear that I am going to desert the order [of| batchelorhood, which I have acquired with so much honor and so few scars; and swear that it is criminal in me to marry out of Maryland; nay perhaps, swear for there is no saying where a man will stop swearing who enters heartily into it—that I should not marry at all—not one word of which shall I contradict were it only for the pleasure I sometimes take in pu[rsuing] whom I love. To-day is an idle day being Saturday, besides several of our gentle men having gone to Philada. we could have no Congress were we even inclined to hold one. No doubt you hear many sarcasms on our re moval. It was said by a wag the other day that Congress at Princetown were like fish out of water, they could only live in Philadelphia. They might be more aptly compared, said another, taking him up short, to the whale, that every now and then is obliged to rise to the surface of the water; as Congress men go to Philadelphia, in order to suck in fresh air and spout a little. Notwithstanding such jokes I can assure you that the atmosphere of this place is very wholesome; but then some persons think it extremely distressing not to be suffocated with the smoke of four or five thousand chimnies and the dust raised by nearly as many thousand carts and carriages. Besides we have here an excellent concert on every tree, which one can enjoy without going to the door; but this is likewise thought a poor substitute for the bells that are incessantly tolling to bury the dead. The want of asiatic din ners is another grievous complaint, and not to be compensated by the hospitable tables of plain healthy farmers, who placed at a distance from two large cities are as yet exempt from the [corr]uptions of ei ther. For my own part, I am [ver]y well satisfied with the good lamb, mutton, beef, fouls, hams, beans and cabbages which the country af fords in great plenty. But there is another reason for my being pleased. I lodge about a mile from Princetown at a Mr Taylors where there happens to be on a visit a very pretty quaker lady, who makes tolerable verses. To this verse-making quality is added—bashfulness— youth—innocence—good sense—and good nature. You will think per haps the people of the house as innocent as their visitor, inasmuch as they have taken the Lock off her room door and put it upon mine; al though I cannot open mine without almost touching hers. But, sweet innocent! thou art not less safe than if thy door was bolted by iron bars of adamant and guarded by a dragon. Sleep therefore in peace and tranquil be thy slumber—for hadst thou no protector in thine own virtue—thou wouldst find one in my honor. I hope this letter will convince you—that I have not taken much pains to write it—that I cannot tell you the price of cloth in Philad.—
