436 July 21, 1783 time, you will oblige me by taking such legal measures as may compel him. I Enclose you a Note for a small Sum long due from Capt. Wm. Green, son of Col. Green, the payment of which I beg you will obtain. Congress are yet at Princeton. The Citizens here are signing an Ad dress intended to effect their return to this City. As Mr. Robert Mor ris’s undue & wicked influence depends so much upon the residence here, it is presumd that he will use his utmost authority for that pur pose. But his influence has manifestly diminished since the removal from Philadelphia, & the fixing of Congress in any other place will I hope restrain it within due bounds. It is much suspected that he & his friends have been the prime movers of all the disturbances in the Army, for the purpose of enforcing the 5 per Ct. in the shape most parental of a corrupt influence in Congress of which he with reason expected to be the prime Minister. Naturally, I conceive, the Soldiers, had they not been otherwise tutord, woud have made their attempt upon him, as it is notorious that all the funds of the U.S. are in his hands. Potomac & Delaware are the Competitors for the permanent resi dence of Congress. The offer of jurisdiction in two States, is, in rea son, a very strong circumstance in favor of Potomac. 1 But unhappily reason very rarely governs in these decisions. No account of the definitive treaty. Adieu RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). In Lee’s hand, though not signed. 1 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, April 10, note 3; and James McHenry to William Hindman, July 19, 1783, note 3. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. July 21. 1783. This will serve merely to prevent a chasm in my correspondence, having nothing whatever of consequence to make a subject of it. We hear nothing from our Ministers abroad. The Court Martial on the parties to the late Mutiny have come to no decisions as yet. The Ad dress from this City to Congress is I believe gone up pretty generally signed. My next will probably communicate the result of it. Among other conciliating steps they have by voluntary subscriptions given a very splendid & cordial entertainment to the Officers of the detach ment under Genl. Howe. 1 The Legislature of Massachusetts have in their election for the ensuing year left out all their Delegates now in Congs, as a penalty for their concurrence in the provision lately adopted relative to half pay. 2 Yr. favr. by the post is this moment handed to me. 3 I am on the point of setting off for Princeton to re place Col. Bland whose business keeps him here for a few days. Farewell. J-M-
