July 23, 1783 441 RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston had written to James Madison to inquire if he might be permitted to sign the definitive treaty of peace in his former character as secretary for foreign affairs, and asked Madison to inquire of his friends in Congress, such as Hamilton, Ralph Izard, and John Rutledge, whether this favor might be extended to him without impropriety. In a letter to Livingston of August 13, written after he had returned to Albany, Hamilton ex plained that he and Madison had “attended to” this request but that “nothing could be done in it.” See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:234-37; and Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:415n.2, 431. Ralph Izard to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir Princeton 23d July 1783 I am just favoured with your Letter of 21st instant, & am sorry to find that any objections should have been made to the payment of the Bill belonging to Col. Pinckney; especially as the informality you speak of is not to be found in that Bill. I should be very sorry to send the Bill back protested, as I am sure it would have a bad effect; at the same time I do not think myself authorized to receive anything but money in payment of the Bill. Col. Pinckney desires me to send him a pair of Bay Horses not exceeding five years old, & has limited me to 308 Dol lars. The passage, & other expences he will pay in Charles Town. He desires me to apply to Hiltzeimer if I should not be able to purchase the Horses myself. It is very probable that Mr. Morris’s Notes may be as acceptable to Hiltzeimer, as money; I should be obliged to you if you would take the trouble of consulting him, & if the Horses can be procured that they may be shipped for Charles Town, & that you would write a Letter to Colonel Pinckney, informing him of it. I am obliged to Mr. Morris for the trouble he has taken about my New Lon don Bill, & for his offer to pay me the amount of it. I can not however conceive a good reason why Mr. Morris’s Correspondent has not given him an account of the fate of the Bill. As soon as Mr. Morris receives an account of the payment of the Bill I should be glad that he would inform me of it. I am Dr. Sr., Your most obt. Servt. Ra. Izard. P.S. Pray write to me as soon as possible respecting the Horses, as I must give Colonel Pinckney an account of the business by the first op portunity. If Hiltzeimer can not undertake to send the Horses for Mr. Morris’s Notes, & if you can not get the money for Mr. Dart’s Bill, I beg the favour of you to have it protested regularly, & sent to me immediately. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection).
