July24, 1783 447 refugees were adopted on August 9, for which see PCC, item 78, 12:271-78; and JCC, 24:496-98. 2 For this resolution of thanks to Reuben Harvey for the relief he had provided Amer ican prisoners in Ireland during the war, whose services Washington had called to the attention of Congress in a letter of June 23, see JCC, 24:439-40; and Washington, Writ ings (Fitzpatrick), 27:28-29. For documents pertaining to Harvey’s activities in Ireland, see PCC, item 46, fols. 339-64. Samuel Holten to Samuel Dexter Dear Sir. 1 Princeton, State of New Jersey, July 24 1783. I have reed, the letter you did me the honor to write, but it did not come to hand ’till the 15th instant. What caused so long a delay, I am not able to say; but it happened at the very time I reed, it, that my ser vant was about sitting out to Philada.; I immediately wrote to Dr. Martin 2 & inclosed your letter, & three days after I reed, his answer, which I do myself the honor to inclose; but shall make no observa tions upon it, as it speaks itself. Upon consideration of the matter; I did suppose that several Gen tlemen of the faculty, members of Congress, [...] were likely to be ac quainted with Dr. Martin or his method of practice; I accordingly waited upon them & made careful inquiry as to their knowledge of Dr. Martin or his method of curing Cancers; the accounts they gave me of the man were much the same as you will discover from his letter; & as to his medicine, as he calls it, or his method of practice, they could say little more than this, that they understood he had cured bad ulcerous sores, or cancerous ulcers, as some called them, & after other sur geons had failed; but it was thus doubtful with them, whether he had cured one real Cancer; and that they understood, that he had failed in some cases in attempting to cure them; one of the Gentlemen added that he lived a number of months in the same house with Dr. Martin, & he understood that he used causticks. You will please, sir, to make my best compliments to your Lady, tho’ unknown, and acquaint her that it gives me concern for her indisposi tion, and that I wish it was in my power to render her services. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, your most obedient servant FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Samuel Dexter (1726-1810), a former Boston merchant who had also represented Dedham in the Massachusetts General Court while Holten was representing Danvers, was at this time living in Woodstock, Conn. DAB. 2 Dr. Hugh Martin of Philadelphia had aroused attention for his claimed cancer cures. See also Holten to Dexter, September 21; Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 430-32; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:281.
