450 July 25,1783 be put into the Scale agt every other part of 13 States—but your Citi zens do me an honor I am not entitled to. I had not even a Voice in the removal of Congress from the City, tho’ I assure you it met my most hearty Approbation, and since our removal here, on the most candid & impartial Consideration, I never was more satisfied with any measure Congress have taken. It was done without Passion—with Con sideration & unanimously, not excepting the State of Pennsylvania, whose bare negative would have prevented the Measure. We conceive the matter to lye in a narrow compass. The Council had a Right most certainly to refuse the aid asked for, if they thought proper, and Congress had as certainly a Right on such Refusal to remove to such other Place of Residence, as should appear to them more likely to concur in Sentiment with them and to assign the Reason for their Conduct. The Proclamation I am told gives particular offence—for this I am certainly alone Answerable—but this Charge is an additional Evidence of local prejudices, warping the good Sense of the Objec tors. Can any Man in his Senses suppose that such a Body as Congress was to be privately adjourned from one State to another, as if no Body had any Business with them, but a few individuals who could be pri vately notified? Pray what would the Minister & Servants of foreign Powers have said—what would the Officers of Congress & the daily ap plicants that attend on Business of Importance have said? What would the several States, with the Contractors, the public Creditors & Corre spondents of Congress have said, if they had meanly & privately slipped off or escaped by Flight, as some of your Citizens have even now thought proper to term it, without announcing to the world in an open public Manner to what Place they had adjourned? Who was to inform the Citizens of the united States & Foreigners having Business with Congress, where they were to be found? How indeed the infa mous advertisement offering a Reward to take up the Congress of the united States that appeared in your City, might have been Justified? Is one of the assemblies of a State called together or adjourned by the Executive of a State, or even a special Court held in a City or County, without being anounced to the Public either by Proclamation or something equal to it, and is the Sovereign Power of the united States, so sunk in the opinion of the Citizens of Philadelphia, that they should suppose them capable of skulking from Place to Place as if they were ashamed to let their removal be known? But it is the Lan guage of the Proclamation that gives Offense. This I am not answer able for. It is but a bare Recital of the Acts & Language of Congress, and I think entirely unexceptionable, as it is setting Forth the Facts as they happened. Congress appear to me to have no Dispute with the State of Pennsylvania. She has exerted herself greatly & in a most re spectable Manner in the Comon Cause, and she does now & will still continue to reap the advantage of it as much as & even more than any
