July 25, 1783 451 State in the Union. Congress have reed many Instances of attention from her and she has been richly repaid in return. Congress & her at tendants have for some Years past spent near £150,000 Per Annum in ready money in your City. This is no small Matter—but surely had we only represented the union without any farther advantage to the State, we certainly were entitled to protection from Insult. But what gives one the greatest Satisfaction on this subject is that we are now fully assured that the destruction of private property, if not the City it self was the Object of this Mutiny, and that it was prevented from tak ing effect by our leaving the City in the manner we did, we are all well convinced of. The private Letters from Sullivan & Carbarer we have in possession are satisfactory on this Subject to every unprejudiced Mind. On the whole, I thought proper as an individual to give you my private Sentiments on this Transaction, tho I wished to be as silent as possible—but as it is designed for your private Consideration & not to increase any ill will that may have already have taken Place in any un informed Mind I thought it could give no Offence. As the Time of our framing our permanent residence is so near, I could wish to return & settle matters with order & decorum before we make that determina tion, but as I before observed the thinness of Congress, I am afraid will altogether prevent it. 3 FC (DLC: Boudinot Papers). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. 1 Not found. 2 That is, the address to Congress from the citizens of Philadelphia received July 23, for which see Richard Peters to Thomas FitzSimons, July 23, note 1. 3 Rush’s August 2 response to Boudinot is in Rush, Papers (Butterfield), 1:307-9. Alexander Hamilton to John Jay Dear Sir Philadelphia, July 25. 1783. Though I have not performed my promise of writing to you, which I made you when you left this country, yet I have not the less interested myself in your welfare and success. I have been witness with pleasure to every event which has had a tendency to advance you in the esteem of your country; and I may assure you with sincerity, that it is as high as you could possibly wish. All have united in the warmest approbation of your conduct. I cannot forbear telling you this, because my situation has given me access to the truth, and I gratify my friendship for you in communicating what cannot fail to gratify your sensibility. The peace which exceeds in the goodness of its terms, the expecta tions of the most sanguine does the highest honor to those who made it. It is the more agreeable, as the time was come, when thinking men began to be seriously alarmed at the internal embarrassments and ex-
