454 July 25, 1783 necessary used to chastise & compel it into the eastern Confederacy. New Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware and Maryland will form another Union. They are all states whose boundaries are fixed and confined and who have one common strong desire to possess a share of the great Western territory, which they now claim as their right and as an acquisition which the present confederacy has obtained by the ex pense of their blood and treasure. The haughtiness of Virginia, its great extent and its boundless claims will induce it to set up for itself. And if ever royal government is set up in N. America, here it will first erect its throne. Her first quarrel will be with the middle confederacy about the western Country. Un less perhaps the people beyond the Allegheny Mountains should be induced first to set up for themselves and to claim an exclusive right to that country. In that case Virginia may attempt to subjugate them & the middle confederacy will support them against her. She may then attempt to form an alliance with the Eastern confederacy or the three Southern states which it is not improbable may league together but without any close confederacy. For such is the fiery pride of South Carolina, such the dissipation of her morals & her insolence occa sioned by the multitude of slaves that she will not cordially join in any Union till she is taught wisdom by sore suffering. In this conflict America may be a theatre of war & her councils become famous for brigues 2 & intreagues of policy. But where am I wandering. I sat down only to tell you I am well and am hurried on I know not how into scenes of fairy land from which I am recalled by Miss Nancy’s invita tion to breakfast. So I bid you Adieu. Take care of your health. I am, with sincere Affection, your loving husband Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 No Philadelphia “address” with Joseph Reed’s “emendations” has been found or is recorded in the journals or papers of Congress, but for mention of such a document by one of Reed’s correspondents, see Oliver Ellsworth to Joseph Reed, August 7, 1783. 2 “Strife, quarrel, contention. Obs. ” OED. Elias Boudinot to Sir Guy Carleton Sir, Princeton 26th July 1783 I have the honor of acknowleging the receipt of your Excellency’s letter of the 24th instant, with the several papers enclosed, which have just come to hand. They shall be immediately laid before Congress, and whatever Reso lutions shall be adopted on the subject-matter of them, I will do my self the honor of transmitting to your Excellency without delay. 1 I have the honor to be, with the most perfect consideration and respect, Your Excellency’s &c. E.B.
