July 26, 1783 463 for the Meeting of the Assembly. This will do for Procrastination. In deed I think Council might have said something like an Invitation without derogating from their Dignity or Character. If they had or would do it every Excuse would be taken away & the Business be brought to a short Issue on the Point. All this is intended to shew the disagreeable Situation Montgomery & I will be in & to stimulate you & Wilson to join us that we may reduce the Matter to some Certainty. I therefore beg you will come here for I am not only tired but begin to lose my Temper which you know is a bad Symptom. If it is determined to stay here I think of putting something on the Journals & I wish to have the Advice of my Fellow Labourers lest anything wrong should be done. It was always understood by me that the Pennsilvania Dele gates would not have joined in the Measure of Removal but that it was declared to be for a temporary Purpose. You know how this was better than I do. Some of them deny their removal to be much for a particu lar Purpose. But the greater Part & the President particularly declare it to be so. Shew this to Mr Wilson & take your Measures accordingly, yours with very sincere Esteem, Richard Peters [RS.] If you do not come the Beginning of the week the affair will be over. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 For the address from the citizens of Philadelphia and the committee report thereon adopted July 28, see Peters to FitzSimons, July 23. 2 “Easy is the descent to Avernus... but to recall thy steps....” Virgil Aeneid 6. 126-28. Richard Peters to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir, 26th July 1783. I have had the Pleasure of your Letter. 1 I just write you this as you seem to think that some Arguments will he drawn from the Numbers of Subscribers to the Address. I have heard no such Arguments used nor do I believe there will or can be any Objections on this Line. But I heard there were 2000 and it was from mere Curiosity I wished to know why the whole was not sent. There are 873 to the Address. And the Respectability of them is sufficient to answer every Purpose. I have wrote you fully this Morning and you will percieve I write confiden tially, Yours affectionately, Richard Peters [P.S.] We had a Story here that one of the Addresses was stolen out of the bank. There is no End to the idle Tales we hear and I could wish a Line now and then that I may know what is the real State of any Matters of Importance in the City. Reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 7:234-45, for whom it was “Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 Not found.
