July 26,1783 465 no more green fruit which he observes & is now well and hearty. I am sorry poor Dick has lost his voice. I hope he will soon recover it & cheer his mistress with a song during my absence. Tell him one song to my charmer while I am absent will please me more than two to my self. My love to all friends. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband Cha Thomson P.S. Mrs. Morgan & the children are well but the col. has got a regular ague. Yesterday he shook & had a severe fever but which went off soon with a profuse sweat. After which he came down stairs. This is his well day. He is up and engaged in the business of his farm & intends with the assistance of a physician to ambuscade his enemy on his return & by the help of Ippecac & tar.em [tartar emetic] to spring a mine that will surprize the foe & then attack it vigorously with [cost, soerw.?] by which he hopes to obtain a compleat victory. I heartily wish him success. RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 Hannah’s cousin Mary Norris Dickinson, wife of John Dickinson. 2 That is, John Dickinson. 3 Not identified, although Thomson may have had in mind the secretary of the Penn sylvania Council, John Armstrong, Jr. 4 See Richard Peters to Thomas FitzSimons, July 23, note 2. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Princeton July 27th. [i.e. 26th] 1783 1 Sir, We have before us, the two letters with which your Excellency honord us the 4th & 12th of this month. Their enclosures have been laid before Congress, and are referrd for reports. 2 We shall make due enquiry after Capt. Camue; & endeavor to re- treive the effects he carried off. 3 We have the pleasure to inform your Excellency, that intelligence has been receivd of the arrival of the Definitive treaty at N. York. But Congress have receivd no Advices of it from their Ministers in Europe. We do not know any colour of reason for the report you mention relative to our Commander in Chief. On the contrary we believe that his popularity, like his merit, has not sufferd the smallest diminution. 4 We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, Yr. Excellencys most obedt. Servts. Theok Bland Jr. Arthur Lee P.S. Congress has this moment recevd, from Sir Guy Carelton, infor mation, that several persons have been taken up in New York on suspi-
