July27, 1783 467 tion to the Monarch of France. When I recollect that we often find Nations as well as individuals who in the Hour of Danger profess the utmost degree of good Will and Affection for their Allies or Friends, the whole of which they seem to forget on the moment their danger is over, I confess I have particular Pleasure in observing the Genl. As sembly of N Carolina could not suffer themselves to pass over such an opportunity of expressing their Affection for his most Christian Majesty: though Peace had taken Place in the mean Time; and I run no Risque in saying that no distance of Time will alter or diminish the sincerity or Ardor of their Affections. I have the Honor to be, With the utmost Consideration Dr Sr. your obedt hble Servt, Hu Williamson RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For the enclosed May 14 assembly resolve thanking the delegates for presenting North Carolina’s congratulations to “the Chevalier De La Luzerne, Minister of France, on the auspicious birth of a Dauphin,” see N. C. Slate Records, 19:349. See also North Carolina Delegates to La Luzerne, August 14, 1782. Alexander Hamilton to George Clinton Sir Princeton, July 27. 1783 A few days since I was honored with Your Excellency’s letter of the; and was glad to find your ideas on the subject corresponded with mine. 1 As I shall in a day or two take leave of Congress, I think it my duty to give my opinion to the legislature on a matter of importance to the state, which has been long depending and is still without a prospect of termination in the train in which it has been placed—I mean the af fair of the grants. 2 It is hazardous to pass a positive judgment on what will happen in a body so mutable as that of Congress; but from all I have seen, I have come to a settled opinion, that no determination will be taken and executed by them in any other manner, than in that prescribed by the confederation. There is always such a diversity of views and interests, so many compromises to be made between differ ent states, that in a question of this nature, the embarrassments of which have been increased by the steps that have preceded, and in which the passions of the opposite sides have taken a warm part, deci sion must be the result of necessity. While Congress have a discretion they will procrastinate; when they are bound by the constitution they must proceed. It is therefore my opinion that it will be adviseable for the Legisla ture when they meet to review the question; and either to relinquish their pretensions to the country in dispute, or to instruct their dele-
