July 30,1783 477 2 That is, James Duane and Hugh Williamson, members of the committee to which the Philadelphia “address" had been referred on July 23. Elias Boudinot to John Dickinson Sir, Princeton 30th July 1783 Your Excellency’s letters of several dates since the 14th instant (the receipt of which I have had the honor of acknowledging heretofore) 1 were duty laid before Congress and committed. The Report thereon has been but lately brought in, and I now have the honor of enclosing a copy of the Resolutions of Congress in consequence of that Report. 2 The last resolution on the letter from the Secretary at War, 3 being added in this copy by mistake, I did not think it worth while to strike it out as it was certified. I have the honor to be &c, EB. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 Not found. 2 There is no record in the journals or PCC of any letter to Congress from Dickinson of date later than July 14, but for the July 28 congressional resolves Boudinot apparently enclosed, adopted “On the report of a committee... to whom was referred a letter of the 14 instant from the supreme executive council of Pennsylvania, together with all the letters received from them since the 21 ofjune,” see JCC, 24:452-53. 3 Ibid., pp. 453-54. Elias Boudinot to Joseph Phillips, et al. Sir, Princeton 30th July 1783 I had the honor of laying before Congress the Address of the Offi cers of the three Battalions of Militia of Hunterdon, Middlesex and Somerset most contiguous to Princeton; and in answer thereto have it in charge to inform those respectable Officers, “that Congress have received with much satisfaction their respectful and affectionate Ad dress and highly approve the patriotic sentiments contained in the resolution with which it is accompanied.” 1 It gives me personally great pleasure to bear this testimony to the af fectionate attachment of my Fellow Citizens of New-Jersey to the Fcederal Government, and doubt not but they will ever support the very respectable Character they have hitherto maintained throughout the Union. I must beg the favor of your communicating this to your Brother Offi cers, and be assured, Sir, that I am, with very great respect, Your &c.
