482 July 30, 1783 &c. To this address Congress have returned a suitable answer; tho’ not such an one as the Delegates of Pennsylvania expected. By this answer as well as a variety of circumstances, there is good reason to believe that we are posted for the Summer Season at least. The amenity of our Situation in this little village, the Salubrity of the air, & the courteousness of the Inhabitants all conspire to influ ence our determination in favour of this place. I discover no want of fresh meat, or vegetables, tho, I am informed that it is reported in Philadelphia that vegetables are bought in their market for our use. Weekly board is cheaper here than in Philadelphia; in other things there is no great difference and some things are dearer; such are shop goods, liquors, sowing &c. Mr. Ellery & myself are for the present stored in a small house about 50 rods from the College. This was a store when I was in College. It will be difficult when there shall be a full rep resentation to procure suitable Lodgings for the whole, as well as for the foreign ministers & great officers of Congress, & their attendants; but in whatever place Congress shall establish their permanent resi dence there will be no difficulty in erecting suitable buildings in the course of one year, and all the places which are in Competition for this Honor have offered besides an exempt jurisdiction, sufficient funds for this necessary purpose. As you have been informed the question of the permant residence of Congress has been referred to October next; & from appearances I entertain great hopes that, whether any other place may be agreed on or not, a sufficient number of voices will not be obtained for Philadelphia. Messieurs Holten & Higginson, the present Delegates for Mas sachusetts are good republicans & perfectly with me in political mea sures. It gives me pain that they are to return in Nov. next as it is un certain what part their Successors may take. My good friends Mr. A. Lee & Col. Bland of Virginia received me with a smile of welcome & cooperate in every measure for maintaining the Sovereignty of the In dividual States, as well as several other gentlemen from other States. It is astonishing to me that several Gentlemen in Congress could ever have given their voices for the late revenue recommendation in con sistence with their present declared opinions. I can account for it no otherwise than by recurring to what I was told in New Haven by a gen tleman who asked a certain delegate of that State 7 how he came to give his voice for the commutation resolve, having always theretofore been against half-pay? He answered with honesty that, it was true he voted against his own opinion & against the opinion of his State, known to him at the time but that he could, as things were circum stanced, vote no otherwise!!!!!!! I conceive great hopes that things will take a different turn in Congress now it is removed from the unhealthful & dangerous atmo sphere of Philadelphia. It is observed by some Gentlemen that an ob-
