July 31,1783 487 RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 Henry Remsen, one of Secretary Thomson’s clerks. 2 See JCC, 24:457-77. 3 That is, George Bond, deputy secretary of Congress. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dear Sir, Princeton 31 st July 1783 A moment’s time is only allowed me, to inform your Excellency, that I have it in command from Congress to acquaint you, that it is their pleasure that you should, as soon as convenient, after your re turn from the Northward, attend Congress at this place, as they think your presence will be of special service at this important period; and the change of situation may be more agreeable to your Excellency under present circumstances. I would enclose a copy of their Resolution, 1 under which I act, but by the negligence of the Clerks I cannot obtain it without risking the loss of this opportunity. It gives me a very peculiar pleasure to make this communication, as I have hopes, by this means, of seeing Mrs. Washington and your Ex cellency enjoying the fruits of that peace, which, under God, is in a great measure owing to your glorious exertions. Mrs. Boudinot and Miss Susan join me in the most affectionate wishes for your and Mrs. Washingtons health and happiness. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect & esteem, Your Ex cellency’s Obedt. & very humb. Sert. Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 This July 28 directive to Washington to confer with Congress at Princeton “as soon as may be convenient,” had its origin in Washington’s July 16 letter to Congress, which was referred to a committee chaired by James McHenry, for which see JCC, 24:452; Boudinot to Washington, July 24, note 1; and McHenry to Washington, this date. Boudinot actually transmitted this resolve the next day with the following brief note: “Agreeable to the assurance contained in my letter of yesterday by the Post, I do myself the pleasure of inclosing the Act of Congress referred to therein.” Washington Papers, DLC. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Princeton, July 31st, 1783. Since our letter of yesterday We find that Genl Carleton hath lately transmitted to Congress an account of the proceedings had in New
