488 July 31, 1783 York in discovering and detecting certain persons concern’d in Coun terfeiting Morris’s Notes, &C. 1 By perusing these papers we find that it appeared on examination considerable quantities of the paper bills of Connecticutt have been Counterfeited & passd. Alltho’ we cannot learn the distinguishing Characters in the Coun terfeits, or the particular dates or denomination of Bills that have been Counterfeited, yet we have thought it expedient to give the earli est Information of this matter. The names of the persons detected & confined are William May—Connecticutt. John Power—N. York, Copper plate printer. Dennis Flynn—an Irishman lately from Massachusetts. Sylvanus Lyon—Woodstock Connecticutt. William Nichols—Waterbury do (since 1776 in N. York) Lemuel Nichols—late from Waterbury. We are, with perfect Esteem and respect, Your Exys humble Servts. Sam. Huntington. Benj. Huntington. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Samuel Huntington and signed by Samuel and Benjamin Huntington. 1 See Elias Boudinot to Guy Carleton, July 26, 1783. Samuel Holten to John Avery My Dear Sir Princeton 31 st July, 1783 I have not time before the post will set out, to write you any thing about State matters or affairs that respect me personaly; therefore I have only to request that you wou’d forward me a copy of a late reso lution of the honble Court, appointing a committee to correspond with the Delegates from Masstts. 1 I hope that an exchange of newspapers or any thing else doth not operate against my being honored with your address at . 2 I am with particular respect, your most obedient FC (MHi: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. ' For the appointment of this committee by the Massachusetts General Court on July 11, “to correspond with the Delegates of this Commonwealth at Congress on the subject of the half pay & proposed commutation to the officers of the army in the recess of the Court,” see Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, this date, note 4. 2 Not identified; but see Holten to Avery, September 11, 1783.
