July?1783 497 Congress stand in a very delicate and embarrassing situation: on one hand they are blamed for not doing what they have no means of doing on another their attempts are branded with the imputations of a spirit of encroachment and a lust of power. In these circumstances it is the duty of all those who have the wel fare of the community at heart to unite their efforts to direct the at tention of the people to the true source of the public disorders the want of an efficient general government and to impress upon them this conviction that these states to be happy must have a stronger bond of Union and a Confederation capable of drawing forth the re sources of the Country. This will be a more laudable occupation than that of cavilling against measures, the imperfection of which is the necessary result of the constitution. It may appear extraordinary that these observations should be in troductory to remarks on the transaction which at this time princi pally engages the public attention—to wit the removal of Congress from this city; but there is a chain of ideas which naturally connects the general opinion of Congress with the judgment to be passed upon their conduct in this particular instance. This chain will easily be traced by men of discernment. MS (DLC: Hamilton Papers). In the hand of Alexander Hamilton. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:426-30. 1 The last paragraph of this defense of Congress suggests that the statement was meant to introduce a longer essay justifying Congress’ removal to Princeton and may have been intended for publication in a Philadelphia newspaper, as Hamilton refers there to “the removal of Congress from this city.” No other information has been found to indicate when or why Hamilton drafted this statement. It could have been written in late July after he returned to Philadelphia from Princeton, but his reference to Congress’ “removal” as “the transaction which at this time principally engages the pub lic attention” suggests a date soon after that event. 2 At this point Hamilton interlined “adulteries or murders” above “crimes of,” but let all the words stand. 3 That is, 18th April. Alexander Hamilton’s Draft Resolution [July ? 1783] 1 Whereas in the opinion of this Congress the confederation of the United States is defective in the following essential points, to wit: First and generally in confining the power of the federal govern ment within too narrow limits, witholding from it that efficacious au thority and influence in all matters of general concern which are in dispensable to the harmony and welfare of the whole—embarrassing general provisions by unnecessary details and inconvenient excep tions incompatible with their nature tending only to create jealousies
