498 July?1783 and disputes respecting the proper bounds of the authority of the United States and of that of the particular states, and a mutual inter ference of the one with the other. Secondly. In confounding legislative and executive powers in a sin gle body, as that of determining on the number and quantity of force, land and naval, to be employed for the common defence, and of di recting their operations when raised and equipped—with that of as certaining and making requisitions for the necessary sums or quanti ties of money to be paid by the respective states into the common treasury; contrary to the most approved and well founded maxims of free government which require that the legislative, executive and judi cial authorities should be deposited in distinct and separate hands. Thirdly. In the want of a Fcederal Judicature having cognizance of all matters of general concern in the last resort, especially those in which foreign nations, and their subjects are interested; from which defect, by the interference of the local regulations of particular states militating directly or indirectly against the powers vested in the Union, the national treaties will be liable to be infringed, the national faith to be violated and the public tranquillity to be disturbed. Fourthly. In vesting the United States in Congress assembled with the power of general taxation, comprehended in that of “ascertaining the necessary sums of money to be raised for the common defence and of appropriating and applying the same for defraying the public ex- pences”—and yet rendering that power, so essential to the existence of the union, nugatory, by witholding from them all controul over ei ther the imposition or the collection of the taxes for raising the sums required; whence it happens that the inclinations not the abilities of the respective states are in fact the criterion of their contributions to the common expence; and the public burthen has fallen and will con tinue to fall with very unequal weight. 5thly. In fixing a rule for determining the proportion of each state towards the common expence which if practicable at all, must in the execution be attended with great expence, inequality, uncertainty and difficulty. 6thly. In authorising Congress “to borrow money or emit bills on the credit of the United States” without the power of establishing funds to secure the repayment of the money borrowed or the redemp tion of the bills emitted; from which must result one of these evils, ei ther a want of sufficient credit in the first instance to borrow, or to cir culate the bills emitted, whereby in great national exigencies the public safety may be endangered, or in the second instance, frequent infractions of the public engagements, disappointments to lenders, repetitions of the calamities of depreciating paper, a continuance of the injustice and mischiefs of an unfunded debt, and first or last the annihilation of public credit. Indeed, in authorising Congress at all to
