July?1783 505 650,000, and the profit two prices, 1,625,000 Profit on public bills on France, 148,568 Monies expended in Philadelphia by members of Congress, their officers, those necessarily attending to do business with Congress, and their officers, foreign Ministers, &c. 194,642 2,743,746 These are some of your extraordinary means, for it is not possible to form any estimate of them all; and surely from these alone a great deal more might have been reasonably expected, before you could with any propriety boast of your having been “free of your money.” I am sensible that the whole of what was drawn from the other States, in their quotas and imported on loan from Europe, though centered in Philadelphia, was not expended among its citizens, and therefore I am willing to allow any deduction on those sums, which any one bet ter informed than myself may shew to be reasonable. Truth is my ob ject, and a just estimate of your merits. To detract from these I would not willingly exaggerate a single dollar. Nor were the ordinary means of raising your quota less eminently in your favour. To shew this let it be remembered, that for four years your State had not felt the ravaging hand of an army, or enemy, or an im press: That your militia had not been called, during that period, to serve out of the State, but the countrymen have been at uninterrupted liberty to cultivate their lands, and the citizens to pursue their trade: That your commerce flourished, your tradesmen prospered, and your citizens were enriched, beyond any former example in a similar period of time. The war, which was a burthen and calamity to other States, was to you a golden blessing, fertile of elegance and opulence. As proof of this, let me remind you, that in one year your imports in goods amounted to one million of money: That, in one year, your flour shipped to the Havannah brought you upwards of half a million in specie: That your privateers brought in a multitude of most valu able prizes: That such was the enormous profit you derived from com merce, that you could afford to give as far as ten per cent per month for the use of money: That in fine we may say, without any exaggera tion, that, in point of fortune, your tradesmen had become gentle men, and your merchants princes. Such were your means, and such your advantages, in 1782; compare them with your contributions, and see how amazingly they out-mea sure them—how little reason you have to boast, that you have been “free of your fortunes,” or to arrogate pre-eminence in public merit. Superior to every State in the advantages arising from the residence of Congress—superior to most in the prosperity of your agriculture, your manufactures, and your commerce—even in monied contributions
