August 1,1783 509 probably after Francis Bailey reprinted the original essay from the Providence Gazette in the Freeman's Journal (Philadelphia) on October 8, and sent it to Warren for publica tion, for which see Lee to Warren, October 16, 1783. 2 At this point the printer inserted a double dagger to which he keyed the following note: “In the year 1774 the town of Newport sent to sea nearly 140 vessels, small and great. In 1782 that town did not send out more than 5 or 6. At the former period, there were in that town 21 distilleries, and 9 spermaceti-works; at the latter, not a single one of either. ” Elias Boudinot to Guy Carleton Sir, Princeton 1st August 1783 I had the pleasure of acknowledging the receipt of your Excel lency’s letter of the 24th ult. by the return of the Messenger who brought it. I am now honored with the commands of Congress on the subject of that letter, and the papers therein enclosed. 1 Congress have considered those communications, relative to certain persons suspected of forging and passing the Notes issued from the Office of Finance of the United States; and on the maturest delibera tion they presume your Excellency will give orders, that such of the persons, subjects of any of these United States, as are or may be in cus tody on a charge of having made or passed within any of the United States, Counterfeits either of the notes or paper Bills of credit of the United States or any of them, shall be delivered up, together with the proofs which shall be collected against them, to be tried under the Ju risdiction to whom the cognizance of their crimes belongs. If this measure should meet your Excellency’s approbation, a Guard shall attend at the time and place to be appointed by your Ex cellency for the purpose of receiving and securing such of the Crimi nals as fall under the above description. With regard to further enquiries and to Criminals, who are not amenable to any of these States, Congress have entire confidence, that justice will be done, and such atrocious Offenders brought to condign punishment. Enclosed is an original paper I found within one of the copies sent by your Excellency, and as it may be material in the enquiry, I take the liberty of returning it. My private Secretary Mr. Sterett going on business to New-Ark, I have directed him, if a convenient opportunity offers on Monday, to proceed as far as New-York and deliver this himself. I have the honor to be &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See Boudinot to Carleton, July 26, note.
