August 1,1783 513 Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). i Only Benjamin Hawkins’June 24 letter to Martin has been found. 2 See James McHenry to John Henry, July 1, note 3. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Friday August 1. 1783. The question for adjourning from this place is at length brought before Congress. It was yesterday moved by Mr. Read of S Carolina in the words following: “Resolved that on the president shall adjourn Congress to meet at Philadelphia on there to continue until the last Mon ¬ day in October next, at which time the president shall adjourn Congress to meet at Annapolis on the friday following unless Congress shall before that time have determined otherwise.” 1 He prefaced his motion with observing that when Congress ad journed from Philada. it was generally understood by the house & it was particularly, mentioned by the mover 2 and the members around him that it was only for a few days until the detachment from the army arrived to quell the mutineers; That had he not understood this to be the general sense of the house, he never would have consented to the adjournment. That every member must now be fully convinced that this was not a proper place for conducting public business; That even the members of Congress could not be provided with proper accom modations. That there were no conveniences for the Officers of Congress. That a minister was attending from the court of France, one was daily expected to arrive from Holland & others might be expected from other courts and here was no place for their reception or accom modation. That moreover the citizens of Philada & the people of that State were extremely uneasy at the removal. That he would not men tion what he had heard & what he knew, but he greatly feared that de clining any longer to return would endanger the Union, affect the fi nances & ruin the credit of the United states. He hoped therefore his motion would be seconded & meet the approbation of the house. He then sat down and a long silence ensued. I dare not trust myself in de scribing the countenances of some individuals during this interval of silence, or the various passions with which they were visibly actuated, notwithstanding their utmost care to conceal them. It was a sight wor thy the notice of the Athenian, who had learned by careful observa tion to trace accurately the passions of the Soul by the lines of the Countenance and whose skill Plato, Zenophon and the rest of the dis ciples of Socrates admired, while their master bore witness to the truth of it. I will confess that had he fixed his Eyes on me while I was
