514 August 1,1783 viewing the countenances of some, he would have seen a gush of in dignation too visible to be concealed. At length Mr. McHenry of Mary land arose. He said he had looked round and waited to hear the mo tion seconded. It certainly deserved the attention of the house. In his opinion much depended on the determination of it, nothing less than the peace of a great & important state & perhaps that of the Union. That it was high time the subject should be taken into consideration. He therefore seconded the motion, & hoped it would be seriously considered before a vote was taken. Mr. Williamson moved to commit the motion; this was opposed. It was then moved to Assign a day for the consideration of it, this also met with Opposition and the debates continued till at last an adjourn ment was called for and agreed to, so that by that means the subject was put off till next day. It was curious to observe with what care the speakers endeavoured to conceal their sentiments and the votes they meant to give. I expect the subject will be resumed to day, but I ques tion much whether they will come to a decision this week. 3 Adieu my dear Hannah. Take care of your health. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson [PS.] Please to forward the enclosed. Mrs. M & family send their love to you. RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). i See JCC, 24:484-85. 2 That is, Alexander Hamilton, chairman of the committee appointed to confer with Pennsylvania officials on the mutiny. 3 Congress briefly debated Read’s motion this day, then postponed consideration of it to August 6; but it was not actually taken up until August 13, then postponed to the fol lowing day and rejected. See JCC, 24:484-85, 506-9; James McHenry to William Paca, August 2; and John Francis Mercer to James Madison, August 14, 1783. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Princeton Augt. 1st. 1783 Congress have directed the Superintendent of Finance to make public an order he has given to the continental Receivers in the differ ent States, to receive the Notes issued from his Office, in payment of the Army, in exchange for hard money, as that shall come to hand. 1 This order having been known to a few only, & not to the Soldiers, & other holders of those notes, it was apprehended that it woud expose them to be speculated upon, & deprivd of the fruits of their toils & sufferings at a very low rate, to their great injury. We think it our duty to give your Excellency this information, that you may make it public if you judge it adviseable. 2
