August 2,1783 515 The discovery of the Forgers of our Paper, in N. York, will it is to be hopd, arrest that nefarious practice in this quarter of the U. S. & as there appear to be many persons concernd in similar practices in Vir ginia, we trust that government will use every diligence to have them tracd out, & brought to punishment. It woud appear, that the infor mation we had receiv’d of the arrival of the Definitive treaty at N. York, in the Mercury frigate, tho it came from Rivington who it was con- ceivd must know, was premature. Nothing has yet been decided relative to the matters we laid before Congress on the part of the State. 3 We have the honor to be, with great respect Yr. Excellency’s most Obedt. Servts. Theok. Bland Jr 4 Arthur Lee RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Lee and signed by Lee and Bland. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:258-59. 1 See JCC, 24:480; and Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 1. 2 Harrison assured the delegates in his August 15 reply that “Mr. Morris’s directions” would be made public. They appeared in the Virginia Gazelle the following day. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:279-80. See also Stephen Higginson to Samuel Adams, August 21, 1783, note 5. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, July 26, 1783, note 2. 4 At about this time Bland also prepared a state of his accounts for the Virginia audi tors which included a claim for “salary due to me for my attendance on [and] travellg to and from Congress, from the 27th day of Deer. 1782 to the first day of Augt. 1783 being 278 days at 8 dollars per Diem, 2224 [dollars].” Bland Papers, ViHi. James McHenry to William Paca Dr. Sir. Prince town 2 Agt. 1783 I have had another opportunity to speak to the Minister. 1 The truth is your letter is lost, and I think it probable that no answer has been sent. To prevent [... or] other disapointment you will be pleased to send me a copy of it, when I undertake to procure an answer. The only capital business that has been done in Congress since my last, was the ratification of a treaty of commerce with the King of the Goths and Vandals, or the King of Sweden, as he is commonly stiled. 2 We are again reduced to 8 states, and I am yet without a colleague. Thursday the temper of the house was tryed by a motion which I sec onded. It was to go back to Philadelphia, and if Congress should not agree to fix their place of residence by the last week in October, the president was to adjourn sometime in the week following to Annapolis. It was a considerable time under debate and renewed again yesterday without a decision. 3 This I thought best as it was only an experiment.
