August 5,1783 521 Stephen Higginson to Nathaniel Gorham Dear Princeton 5th Augt. 1783. Yours of the 2nd I received. I am glad you have got the Ship arrived, and are like to find an opportunity to go home for a while. It will be much more agreable to go to Virginia in the fall than at present. I wish I could go home with you; my inclination to be at home is very strong, but I feel a reluctance at going immediately on several ac counts. I wish to have my return appear not as the effect of resent ment or chagrin, but rather, as is the truth, from a desire of enjoying domestic quiet, and attending to my own private concerns. I am de sirous of seeing some important points which are on the Carpet ad justed, and of possessing Mr. G—— 2 with a knowledge of men and measures. I want also to hear from London in answer to a letter I sent Mr. F 3 by the Robin-Hood, in which I mentioned the matter which you and I both think of so much importance to the public. I gave him liberty to make such use of the letter as he might think eligi ble, so that he did not commit me. I stated the matter to him in such a manner that I think he will conceive it of importance to communicate it to certain persons, and I expect their attention will be thereby en gaged to the subject, and that measures will be taken in consequence to secure the Object. No particular advantages will result in a pecu niary way that I can see from my being at home. I shall exchange a dis agreeable for an agreeable situation, and encrease my own private en joyment, by going home, but whether I ought to indulge myself immediately, is a matter I am not fully decided upon as yet. I shall think of it a few days after Mr. G arrives, and advise you. Sir Guy’s 4 reasons for the neglect of the British to their interest in this Country, are I suspect the true ones; but they certainly have very wrong Ideas of the matter. While we remain in an unsettled state, it is of the more importance to them to be represented; especially if the cause of our fluctuations is considered; lest we should finally settle down with a Government totally devoted to the French, or remain in confusion ’till a dissolution of the Union shall take place, and seper- ate alliances be formed by the several states with different powers in Europe; in which case some of the Southern States, if not all of them, will certainly be connected with France. To determine this point the interests of the parties should be closely attended to; if we are left wholly to ourselves, and our feelings and inclinations are to direct us, it cannot be doubted but our con nexion with Britain will be renewed in the commercial way—let this again become intimate and the policy of Britain be of the conciliatory kind, a closer connexion and perhaps of more importance will cer tainly result therefrom. Our habits, language, and every circumstance will lead to it, and Britain will not only avail herself of the advantage
