528 August 5, 1783 I am, with great esteem & regard, Sir, your Excellency’s most obedi ent and most hble Servant, E. McComb. RC (DLC: Nicholas Van Dyke Papers). 'James Tilton had been elected a delegate to Congress on February 22, 1783, but he did not attend until September 22. See JCC, 25:597. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Friend Philada. Aug. 5. 1783. Your favor of the 18th ult. which my last did not acknowledge was in the mail & was shortly after reed. 1 Your succeeding one of the 25th in closing the pamphlet came to hand yesterday. 2 The Gazette which I inclose will give you a sight of the Philada. Address to Congress and their answer. Since I left Princeton last, I understand the question has been agitated relative to the return of Congs, to this City and a day fixed for its final discussion. There is little reason to suppose that it will be decided in the affirmative by the present composition & thin ness of Congs. I rather suppose that no question will he taken when the probability of a negative is fully discovered; though it will be pushed by those who wish to multiply obsticles to a removal South of the Delaware. The arrival of the definitive Treaty at N. Y which my last represented as probable, has sunk into a general disbelief. The most sanguine opin ion goes no farther now than to the arrival of some preliminary intelli gence and instructions touching it. I am my dear Sir yrs. very affecy. J. M. Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:263. 1 See ibid., pp. 232-33. 2 Randolph’s July 25 letter has not been found, but he enclosed a pamphlet written by Meriwether Smith, recently published in Richmond, opposing the payment of debts or the return of confiscated Loyalist property to British citizens until Great Britain had met all specified commitments in the preliminary articles and definitive treaty of peace. Observations on the Fourth and Fifth Articles of the Preliminaries for a Peace with Great Britain (Richmond: Dixon & Holt, 1783). Clifford K. Shipton and James E. Mooney, National Index of American Imprints through 1800: The Short-Title Evans, 2 vols. (Worcester, Mass.: American Antiquarian Society, 1969), no. 44,454. Oliver Ellsworth to Joseph Reed Dear Sir Princeton 7th August 1783. I am this minute favoured with your Letter of 1st instant by the Post. Some delay seems always unluckily to attend our correspondence. You
