August 7, 1783 529 ask me what I think of your Addresses. This surprizes me much, as we have only seen one Address from Philadelphia; that which was written by Mr. Paine. From your Letter I should suppose that another Address had been sent: if so, it must have been suppressed. 1 If there has been any Jockeying, it may be proper to trace it. Paine sent me a Copy of his Address, while it was in Embryo. I gave him my sentiments fully on it, 2 before it was presented, which have offended him. There was nothing, either in the matter or composition to recommend it. But the number of respectable names annexed to it were deserving of at tention. My opinion was, & is, that Congress had no business to enter into a discussion of the points contained in the Address; nor to tell the subscribers of it that we did not leave Philadelphia because the Cit izens had not fought the Common Enemy, paid Taxes, or erected a Bank. My opinion was also, & it appeared to be the unanimous desire of Congress, that a very civil answer should be returned. I had the honour of being on the Committee to prepare one; 3 & I hope it meets with your approbation, as it is exactly conformable to my sentiments. I most sincerely wish that Congress could return to Philadelphia consis tently with their duty to their Constitutents, and themselves. And I am persuaded you must agree with me in thinking, after what has hap pened, that it would be highly improper for them to do it until satis factory assurances shall be given of protection, & safety. I distinguish between the Citizens of the State of Pennsylvania & their Executive Council. The latter appear to me at present, to be highly culpable alone. When the Legislature meet, if they do not explicitly condemn their conduct, my opinion will be altered. We are told here by certain Partizans, that the Council have prepared a state of the Case to be laid before the Legislature, in which the facts contained in the Report of the Committee of Congress, are contradicted. This is a measure, to which I always supposed a certain piddling Genius 4 would have re course. And his refusing to enter into a written correspondence with the Committee, 5 during the conference, justified the supposition. Pray let me know your sentiments respecting these matters, & what you think the Assembly will do when they meet. Should a certain party spirit prevail in the House, & the Council escape without censure, I am of opinion that it will produce most mischievous consequences. I sent Mr. Bailey about a fortnight ago an Address from the three Battal ions of Militia, immediately in the neighbourhood of this place; but he has not thought proper to print it. 6 I wish you would call on him, & get it printed either in his paper, or some other; but do not let him know from whom it came. I am Dr. Sr. with great regard, Your most obt. Servant. [RS.] One of your former Letters gave me reason to think that the Militia of Philada. would have vindicated themselves against the asper sions thrown on them, as related in the Report of the Committee of
