August 8,1783 533 Business to Philada it seems to attend the Tryal of an Admiralty ap peal from the condemnation of the Schooner Speedwell. Some days before Mr Bain’s arrival I had written a Letter which I delivered him for you. 1 I cannot think that Mr. Bains continuing at Philada could be necessary till the Tryal which may not come on for weeks after the Be ginning of the Session. I could not even advise him what Lawyer he should retain. Your Brother last Year retained Mr Willson in an appeal from Newbern; was the Case one of my own I would full as soon em ploy Mr Lewis, who I think studies his Causes more diligently, & sticks to them very successfully. In a dangerous and valuable Case I should employ one of those Gentlemen and some Auxiliary. I confess that from the Papers I have seen (and I understand that you have seen a Copy of the Same Papers) I augur ill of the Cause. The Proofs on Record that have been in the Court are very suspicious if not direct to the Point. Wherefore if you mean to prosecute this appeal with Effect I think it will be incumbent on you to shew. How did it happen that a Letter was on board the Schooner signed by Campbell representing that she was bound for New York on a Trade with the Enemy. Perhaps the Letter gives the Schooner another Name than that in the Register but it describes her otherwise and your Acct. Ct. if I remember well mentions her as the Property of Mr Campbel. How did the other Letter signed by Touton come on board which also describes the Schooner and declares her Destination for N York. How did those Letters come to be torn? The British Officers might have had Letters and have torn them, but they had no business for your Acct of the Outfit & Cargo or the a/c nor should they have torn it. Why was a Vessel of such value man’d by two Officers & two private Seamen only for so I think it appears. Why was she so near the Land! Tho I think this the weakest objection against her. For that may have been the safest Rout to shun Cruizers. It does not seem to me that Mr Bain is a correct and clear Hand at telling a Story. If the Story is really a sound one and has a good Bot tom it will bear a much cleaner Explanation than any that I have yet heard. I wish yourself or your Brother William would undertake to give me the History of this Adventure including such Circumstances as will explain all the difficulties I have proposed. I have mentioned them because I think the Court seems to have leant on them in the Condemnation. If you should be coming to the Northward yourself before the Tryal the Trouble of such a long Letter will be saved be cause you will be able in person to explain the Cause to the Lawyer. I have to repeat, if by chance I mentioned it before, that this cause will require being well nursed and that some new Evidence be produced or new Light cast on the Subject if you would set aside the Verdict of the Court below. I have stated candidly where I think the Case labours, in order that you, if possible, may relieve it. I have the Honor to be, Dr Sir, your obedt hble Servt, Hu Williamson
