August 10, 1783 537 it with candour and coolness think that the honour of C will suffer by the publication of this state. It is drawn up he says in very mild lan guage and with great respect for Congress, it is attested in the usual form in the name & in behalf of Council & accompanied with docu ments to support the facts as stated. He farther says that the State in general will espouse the side of Council. You know the man and can make proper allowances; but I confess I have some apprehensions that he is not altogether mistaken. If the state of facts as made by Council differs in any material points from the report of the Comee. Congress will be in a delicate situation, for they have grounded the propriety of their conduct & their justification on that report and the comee who made it are gone; and even if they were present I do not see what steps they could take to vindicate & support their report; They could only assert or deny; And if the Council assert or deny the contrary, it will be 9 or 10 against two. A public body against two indi vidual members of C. Is this a situation for the representative Sover- ingnty of the US? I have reason to think that Some persons, who have no great cordiality for Congress or the Union wish that C may come to no determination respecting their return until this paper is pub lished. I wish they may not be gratified. Sir F Bacon who indulged many singular opinions seems to think that the proverbs of Solomon were chiefly designed to be lessons of policy & that a statesman might reap great advantage by meditating on the Aphorism or proverb “the beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water, therefore leave off contention before it be meddled with.” 2 But Solomon was a fool and Bacon an Ass compared to the wise men of Gotham. I delivered your letter for Mr. P to Mr Delany, who also undertook to forward your letter to the Commissioners or treasurer of York. I hope you will favour me with a line to let me know what turn affairs are taking. My health is not confirmed, though by a change of Air and exercise I hope I shall escape the fever which threatened me at Princeton. If any thing occurs that will render my Attendance necessary before the beginning of next week I shall be obliged if you will inform me of it. With much esteem & respect, I am, Dear Sir, Your Obedt. humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (PHi: Dreer Members of Congress Collection). Addressed: “Honble. Richard Peters, Princeton.” 1 This “message from the President and the Supreme Executive Council to the Gen eral Assembly,” which was adopted by the council on August 18, is in the Pa. Council Minutes, 13:654-66. Presented to the Pennsylvania Assembly on August 20 and referred to a committee which reported on the 27th, it was recorded in the proceedings of the assembly for September 3. Pennsylvania Assembly Proceedings (Third Session of the Seventh General Assembly), pp. 891, 904, 910, 916-25. DLC(ESR). Its publication in the Pennsylvania Gazette on September 24 and the Pennsylvania Packet on September 25
