538 August 11, 1783 led Alexander Hamilton to draft a response to the council’s version of the Pennsylvania mutiny and Congress’ removal from Philadelphia, for which see Hamilton to John Dick inson, September ? 1783. 2 Proverbs, 17:14. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir. Princeton August 11th. 1783. Your Letter to the President of Congress, on the subject of Monies lent to the Continent, and issuing certificates for the interest due thereon; had been taken up previous to my arrival, and reffered to the Financier: his report has been presented to Congress, and ref- ferred to a Committee of that body. 1 From the comp [1] ection of Mr Morrises report, he does not seem fully to approve of the arrangment which would be agreeable to the wish of New-Hampshire; but as no debate hath taken place in Congress on the subject, I can not give any information what weight his opinion will have on the decision of the matter when the Committee make their report, I shall do all in my power to obtain a determination agreeable to the State I have the Honour to represent. Rhode Island seems still opposed to the impost arranged & recom mended by Congress, and probably will not come into that measure. Should this be the case, other means must be devised, if indeed they can be devised, for restoring Continental credit, and giving public Creditors confidence in the plighted faith of Congress. No official account is yet arrived of the definitive treaty being signed, neither hath any other matter transpired, worth the communi cating to your Honor. I must beg the favor that you will write to me by every oppertunity, and communicate whatever may enable me to serve the State I have the Honor to represent. I am Sir with the highest esteem, Your Honr very huble and most obedient Servt, Abiel Foster RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See JCC, 24:489-91; and Foster to Weare, September 3, note 2. James McHenry to George Washington My dear General. Princetown 11 Augt. 1783. I am just now honord with your letter of the 6th. 1 You have indeed gone over a great deal of ground in a very short time. The first motive for bringing you here was to get you out of a dis agreeable situation, to one less disagreeable. The second was to get
