August 11,1783 539 your assistance and advice in the arrangements for peace. It may be necessary besides to consult you respecting promotions, and on a vari ety of military subjects. I believe, on the whole, that your being near Congress will be a public good. I send you the address to be made you from the chair which will serve to explain the intentions of Congress. 2 Mrs. Berrian has offered her house which will be engaged for your reception. As there is no absolute necessity for your immediate atten dance you may prepare at leisure for your removal. Congress has received no acct, of the definitive treaty—but it ap pears pretty certain that definitive orders have been received at New York for its evacuation. With the most sincere regard and respect I have the honor to be my Dear General, Your ob st, James McHenry 14th. As the president sends you a copy of the address it will be unnec essary for me to do it. Gen Lincoln carries it. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 27:82-83. 2 See Elias Boudinot’s “Private” letter to Washington of August 12, 1783. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson My Dear Sir Philada. Aug. 11th. 1783. At the date of my letter in April 1 I expected to have had the plea sure by this time of being with you in Virginia. My disappointment has proceeded from several dilatory circumstances on which I had not calculated. (One of them was the uncertain state into which the object I was then pursuing has been brought by one of those incidents to which such affairs are liable. The result has rendered the time of my return to Virga, less material, as the necessity of my visiting the State of N. Y. no longer exists. It would be improper by this communication to send particular explanations, and perhaps needless to trouble you with them at any time. An alliance of [...] is in general most inexpedient for both parties to them. For myself a deli cacy to female character will [...] 2 under any [.. .] which may carry both, as the danger of being reminded of their Troubles [sc.. .] 3 from a profession of indifference at what has happened. I regret [least?. . f 4 a more propitious turn of fortune.) My journey to Virga, tho’ still somewhat contingent in point of time cannot now be very long postponed. I need not I trust renew my assurances that it will not finally stop on this side of Monticello. The reserve of our foreign Ministers still leaves us the sport of mis informations concerning the def. Treaty. We all thought a little time ago that it had certainly arrived at N. York. This opinion however has become extinct, and we are thrown back on the newspaper evidence
