August 13,1783 547 move Prejudices. If there is any Law by which her Property is for feited, or her Rights of Citizenship taken away, it will have its Opera tion: but if she is evicted by Violence and entitled to Protection, we have no doubt but her grievances will be heard and as far as possible redressed. Can it be thought a Crime deserving the Penalties of Con fiscation, or any high Degree of public Indignation, that a Widow in the Decline of Life retired from the midst of the most active scenes of War to a place of Safety. In this Light is Mrs. DeLancey’s Case repre sented and this she insists is her only offence. We have no Account of the definitive Treaty. No Intelligence of any kind from our ministers or private Letters which embarresses all our mea sures more than words can express. As soon as anything transpires worthy of attention we shall not fail to communicate it to your Excellency. With the utmost Respect we remain Sir Your Excellencys most Obe dient and most humble Servants. Jas. Duane. [RS.] When these dispatches were made up Mr. L’Hommedieu was abroad which prevented his Signature. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:234-35. FC (NHi: Duane Papers). In the hand of James Duane. 1 Not found; but see Ralph Izard to George Washington, June 8; and Ezra L’Homme dieu to Clinton, September 3, 1783. Ralph Izard was married to Alice De Lancey, daughter of Peter and Elizabeth Colden De Lancey. Committee of Congress to Robert R. Livingston Princeton August 13th. 1783 Sir Congress have lately receivd Sundry letters from Mr Dana at Peters- burgh, partly in cypher, he refers to the cypher which was Sent you by Mr Adams’s son, his words are “I make use of the cypher I Sent you (the Secretary for foreign af fairs) by Mr Adams’s Son having laid yours asside for the reasons there mentioned, your printed one has not come to hand with your letter.” 1 The Committee to whom these letters are referd request you would be so kind as to favour them with the Cypher referd to as soon as may be. 2 I am in behalf of the Com, with much Esteem & Respect, your Humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (PHC: Roberts Autograph Collection). Written and signed by Samuel Huntington. 1 For this passage from Dana’s April 17 letter to Livingston, see Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:382. 2 For the report of Huntington’s committee, see Benjamin Hawkins to James Madi son, August 9, notes 2 and 3.
