548 August 13, 1783 Arthur Lee to James Warren Dear Sir, In Congress, Princeton Augt. 13. 1783 I had the honor of writing to Mrs. Warren relative to Your Son’s ob ject. 1 I have now to add that it is not probable any question on the subject will come on ’till the new delegation takes place of the pres ent; 2 therefore it woud be prudent to impress them before they leave your State, in his favor. Our removal to Philadelphia, tho’ much urgd, has not yet been ef fected; but such is the influence of art & cultivation over right & judg ment that I cannot promise a vote will not at length be obtaind for that pernicious measure. Will you have the goodness to inform me, whether any thing has been done relative to the land voted to me; 3 & how the paper-money, of which I troubled you with a parcell to receive the interest, is now circumstanced. Whether it is funded, has depritiated or appretiated. We have not a word from any Minister in Europe relative to the definitive treaty, which is not a little surprising. Mr. Dana was well at Petersburg in April, when he informed us that the Empress woud not receive him ’till the ratification of the definitive treaty, & a new Letter of credence is sent dated posterior to the acknowlegment of Our In dependence by the british Crown. 4 This seems to be an over delicacy. Please to present my best respects to Mrs Warren, Mrs J. Adams, Mr. Bodwoine, & Mr. S. Adams. Farewell, A Lee RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Letters). 1 Not found; but for Winslow Warren’s application for an appointment as consul in Portugal, see Samuel Holten to Warren, July 15, 1783, note. 2 That is, the new Massachusetts delegation, for which see Stephen Higginson to Un known, July 21, 1783, note 1. 3 For Lee’s Massachusetts land grant, see these Letters, 18:440, 442n.2, 19:710. 4 See Benjamin Hawkins to James Madison, August 9, 1783. Theodorick Bland to George Weedon Dear Sir: Princeton, Aug. [14], 1783. 1 At the request of the Paymaster General, I take the liberty to intro duce to you Mr. Dunscomb, one of the gentlemen in the department, whose business in our country is officially to forward the settlement of the accounts of our line. A service, I presume, not unacceptable to our officers and soldiers, and, therefore, I presume he will meet from you every facility in your power, as well as every necessary introduc tion, to render his acquaintance as useful to the public and as agree able to himself as possible, during his stay in Virginia. Time does not
