550 August 14, 1783 I take it you are well acquainted with what took place in Philada. that caused Congress to adjourn to this place; and we have spent part of several days debating the question whether we shall return, but I think it is not likely that seven states will be in favor of returning at present, not withstanding the address of a large number of the citizens of Phi lada., the invitation of the Supreme Executive of the state, & the great influence of a certain number of gentlemen; so that you may suppose a number of us are determined not to return, if we can help it; and I be lieve you will not be much at a loss for the reasons of our conduct. I find that ’tis the opinion of some persons that commutation was not the only reason that operated against the reelection of the delegates from Massachusetts, 3 & that some change was thought necessary for po litical reasons, but you, sir, that are well acquainted with the secrets of state, can I suppose, give me information; and others are of opinion, that it originated nearer Philada. than Boston; but I have no doubt that communication operated in the minds of the major part that voted. The more I am personally acquainted with Doctr. Lee, the more he rises in my esteem. I was, lately, in hopes to have had his company in the same house with me, which he was desirous of, but we could not bring it about, and he has taken a chamber, on the other side of the street, & I believe we shall be neighbourly. Mr. Gerry arrived here last week, has been to Philadelphia, & re turned yesterday, & is to take his seat this day. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, your most obedient: S. Holten P.S. Two of the sergeants are under sentence of death, that were con cern’d in the late mutiny in the city of Philadelphia; but I do not ex pect that any of the sentences will be carried into effect ’till the whole trials are gone through with. 4 We have determined the question, as to returning to Philada., & there appeared but two states in favor of the return, (viz.) Pennsyla. & Maryland. North Carolina dividd. 5 RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 See Holten to Adams, May 14, 1783. 2 See Elias Boudinot’s “public” letter to George Washington, August 12, 1783. 3 See Stephen Higginson to Unknown, July 21, note 1; and Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 4. 4 The following day Congress suspended these sentences until the complete court martial proceedings against all the leaders of the mutiny had been received, for which see JCC, 24:509-10; Elias Boudinot to Robert Howe, August 18 and September 13; and James McHenry’s Speech, September 13, note. 3 See JCC, 24:509.
