August 14, 1783 555 lency for informatron whether any such Commissioner has been in the State, and whether the Accounts are ready for Settling. 2 Congress have not yet determind any of the points submitted to them on the part of the State. 3 No Advice from our Ministers abroad relative to the definitive treaty, have reachd us. The Empress of Russia has declind receiving our Minister as inconsistent with her character as Mediatrix, ’till the definitive treaty shall have been signd, A Minister receivd in G. B. from the U. S., & letters of Credence sent bearing a date subsequent to the acknowlegment of our Independence by G. B. 4 The question for adjourning to Philadelphia, after long debate & mature consideration, was carried in the negative by Six States to two. We have the honor of inclosing a copy of the yeas & nays on this im portant question. 5 Two of the ring-leaders in the late Mutiny have been condemn’d to death by their Courts-martial. 6 We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, your Excel lency’s most Obedt Servts. Theok. Bland Jr. Arthur Lee John F. Mercer P. S. Augt. 15th. 1783. A Letter is just read from Mr. Laurens, dated London June 17 in forms that the Mission of Mr. Hartley will not in all likelihood termi nate in a commercial treaty—that the present Ministry is tottering & the restoration of Ld. Shelburne as prime Minister he apprehends woud embarrass the Negociation. The british Court he says has very much changd its tone with regard to reciprocity in commercial stipu lations, & seem inclind to have them all in their own favor. He makes no mention of the definitive treaty. But Mr. Fox assurd him that or ders were actually sent for the evacuation of N. York. 7 A. Lee RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Lee except for the first sentence of the postscript written by Mercer. Signed by Lee, Bland, and Mercer. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:274-75. 1 The delegates were mistaken for while the assembly’s June 4 instructions had dealt with accounts in general they did not specifically mention those of William Finnie. See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, July 5, note 3; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:293. 2 For the attempt of Zephaniah Turner to settle Virginia’s Continental accounts, see ibid., p. 276n.3. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, July 5, note 3. 4 See Benjamin Hawkins to James Madison, August 9, 1783. 5 See Theodorick Bland to George Weedon, this date, note. 6 For the suspension of these verdicts, see Samuel Holten to Samuel Adams, this date, note 4. 7 Henry Laurens’June 17-18 letter with its several enclosures was read in Congress August 15 and referred to a committee chaired by Stephen Higginson. Its work super-
