556 August 14, 1783 seded that of another committee chaired by Thomas FitzSimons which had been ap pointed May 6 and instructed August 5 “to prepare a plan of a com[mercial] treaty with G B & instructions for negotiating peace & to report what other treaties of commerce it may be proper to propose.” The latter was discharged August 26 and its work assigned to Higginson’s committee which reported September 1. Congress took no immediate action on the report, however, assigning it instead to a committee appointed September 12 and chaired by James Duane which was instructed to consider voluminous dispatches received that day from the ministers abroad. See JCC, 25:531-32; PCC, item 89, fols. 287—306, item 185, 3:75, item 186, fols. 99, 116, 118; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:396-97, 442-44, 491-93; and Madison to Randolph, September 13, note 1. Elias Boudinot to Benjamin Franklin Sir, Princeton 15 August 1783. I had the honor of your favor of the 7th of March last enclosing the treaty between the United States and the King of Sweden, the ratifica tion whereof has been retarded for want of nine States present in Congress. This Act has now taken place, and I am honored with the commands of Congress to transmit it to you for exchange, which I now have the pleasure of doing, and hope it will meet with a safe and speedy conveyance. 1 On revising the Treaty a manifest impropriety struck Congress in the Title of the United States being called of North America, when it should have been only America; and also in the enumeration of the different States, wherein the Delaware State is called “The three lower counties on Delaware.” As there is no such State in the union, Congress were at a loss how they could ratify the Treaty with propriety, unless they should alter the transcript, which might be liable to many exceptions; they have therefore, to avoid all difficulties, passed a seper- ate Resolve, impowering you to make the necessary amendments. A certified copy of this Resolution I do myself the pleasure to enclose. 2 Congress are intirely at a loss to account for the silence of their Commissioners at Paris since February last, being without any official information relative to the Treaty with Great Britain since that time. I had the honor of writing you very fully on the 15th of July last, giv ing the reasons for our removal to this place at length, which I hope got safe to hand. Congress having determined not to fix the place of their permanent residence till the first Monday in October next, is the reason of defer ring the appointment of a Minister for Foreign Affairs till that is done. I have the honor to be, with high respect, & Esteem, Sir, Your most obedient & very humb. Servt. Elias Boudinot P.S. I have sent by this Oppertunity, the News Papers to this Date.
