August 15, 1783 557 RC (DLC: Franklin Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by Boudinot. 1 Franklin’s March 7 letter to Robert R. Livingston is in PCC, item 82, 2:361-64; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:276. For the enclosed treaty and its ratification, see JCC, 24:457-77. 2 See JCC, 24:477. Committee of Congress to Robert Morris Sir [Princeton, August 15-20? 1783] I am requested by the Committee to whom is referred your Report on the Queries of the Commissioner appointed to settle Accounts in the State of Pennsylvania, to desire you will inform them as soon as possible whether any and what Engagements under the sanction of Congress are grounded on Requisition for Money from the several States made without particular Estimates. If any such Engagements subsist, you will please to give a particular State of them together with the Requisitions on which they are made. I have the Honor to be, Sir, your obedient huml Servant, (Signed) Abra. Clark P.S. Please to direct your Answer to Mr. Lee or Mr. Gerry as I shall probably be Absent. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 This letter was written on behalf of a committee consisting of Abraham Clark, El bridge Gerry, and Arthur Lee, appointed on August 15 to take into consideration a re port from Morris to Congress on the settlement of Pennsylvania’s Continental accounts, for which see JCC, 24:511-12; and Morris to the President of Congress, August 12, 1783, in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming). This text of it was enclosed in Mor ris’ first response to the committee, requesting to know “what Object they have in View and to explain to me their Wishes,” for which see Morris to Gerry, August 21, ibid. For Morris’ comprehensive response to the committee’s requests and an analysis of the is sues at stake in the committee’s work, see Morris to Gerry, August 26, ibid. Committee of Congress to Charles Thomson Sir Princeton 15th Augt. 1783. Inclosed is an Application from the Delegates of the State of Rh. Is land &c which has been committed. 1 It appears that the Schooner good Fortune of which George Hard wick was Master was captured on the high Seas by the Brig Unity of which Edward Coffin was Master and the Brig Providence of which Benjn Bailey was Master and carry’d into Cape Francois where she was
