558 August 15, 1783 condemned by a Court of Admiralty, Liberty being granted to the said George Hardwick to appeal to the deputies of the US at Paris. You will be pleased to examine the Journals and Files of Congress that we may know whether there are any Proofs that such appeal has been made. By Concurrence and Direction of the Committee. Hu Williamson, Chairman P.S. Be so good as take an early Opportunity to report to the Commit tee the Result of your Enquiries. 2 RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written and signed by Hugh Williamson. 1 The “Application” from the Rhode Island delegates had been received August 5 and referred to Hugh Williamson, James Duane, and Samuel Holten. See PCC, item 186, fol. 116. 2 In his reply Thomson curtly reminded the committee that he could not determine if “any communication was made by the ministers or deputies at Paris respecting the matter in question” because their letters were lodged among the papers of the secretary for foreign affairs which had been “sealed up” when Robert R. Livingston left office. See Thomson to Livingston, June 4, and to Williamson, August 19, 1783. The commit tee included a copy of Thomson’s “answer” in its August 25 report recommending that the president immediately inquire of the ministers at Paris whether the owners of the Good Fortune had registered an appeal with them “and what further Steps, if any, have been taken.” When Congress took up the report on September 22 the Rhode Island delegates moved instead that “the secretary be directed to examine the Journals and files of Congress respecting this affair” and to deliver “a certificate of the result of the examination,” but the move was defeated and the committee’s report was adopted. There is no evidence, however, that President Boudinot ever wrote to the ministers abroad on this subject. See JCC, 25:597-601; and PCC, item 20, 1:235-46. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir, PrinceTown, August 15, 1783. Upon the Receipt of your Excellency’s Letter, 1 I left Home as soon as I could, with any convenience; which was the first of this Month, and arrived here the sixth, a few Days after Colo. Hambleton was gone. Having been informed before I left Middletown that you was in Com pany with General Washington to the Northward, I came the most di rect road by Kings Ferry, otherwise I should not have omitted calling on your Excellency at Poughkeepsie. Mr. Duane informs me that Gen eral Scott has received a sum of Money to enable him to attend Congress, tho’ there is no probability of his coming on. I hope this will not put it out of your Power to supply me with a small sum; if it should, you will be so kind as to let me know it soon, that I may have oppertu- nity to procure it elsewhere. I have now a Ballance due to me from the State, for my Attendance in Congress, to the amount of £121.10.0. I
