560 August 16, 1783 Elias Boudinot to Azariah Dunham et al. Gentlemen, Princeton 16th August 1783 In answer to the very respectful address (which you did me the honor of enclosing to my care) of the Inhabitants of New-Brunswik and its vicinity, 1 I am directed by Congress to inform those respectable Citizens, “that Congress with pleasure received their congratulations on the glorious and happy success of the War; are obliged by the affec tion and respect for the Federal Government expressed in their Ad dress, and highly approve their patriotic disposition to promote order, harmony and peace throughout the United States. ”2 The honor of this communication gives me great pleasure, as it is an additional testimony to the persevering & worthy conduct of my Fellow Citizens of New-Jersey. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “Azariah Dunham & others, a Committee of the Inhabitants of New Brunswick.” 1 Dunham’s August 5 letter to Boudinot enclosing New Brunswick’s August 4 invitation to Congress to select “the Banks of the Raritan” as the “proper place for their Residence,” is in PCC, item 46, fols. 95-99. 2 For this August 12 resolve, see JCC, 24:501-2, 504—5. Daniel Carroll to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sr. Prince Town Augt 16th. 1783. I take the liberty of inclosg a Bank Note for 40 Dollars, & request you to buy a ps. of linen for me proper for Shirts. I woud prefer a good ps. of Holland from 30 to 40 yds, such as woud be abt. 3/3 Stg Prime Cost. I shall want cambric suitable for Ruffles for 6 of the Shirts. When shall we See you? You have doubtless had the history of this week—better than I can give it you. We yesterday receivd a letter from Mr. Laurens from London dated the 17 & 18 of June. 1 Not a word of the definitive Treaty. Mr Hartley had full powers to do nothing with our Comsrs. respecting Commerce. Mr Fox assurd him on the 14th of June that Sr. Guy had possitive or ders to evacuate N.Y. The Ministry was tottering, the late Premier woud come in if a change took place, & our affairs might be embar- rassd. Vaughn is with you—he is intelligent, & I dare say well informd; what do you collect from him? Please to present my Comps, to Mrs. Fitzsimmons & Mr Stretch. Yrs. Dr sr, very Sincerely, Dani Carroll RC (WHi: Signers of the Constitution Collection). 1 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, August 14, note 7.
