August 16, 1783 561 Abraham Clark to James Read Sir 1 Prince Town Angst 16. 1783. I most sincerely congratulate you & Mrs. Reed on her safe delivery & the incrise of your family by one to bear your Name. Our long suspense about the definitive treaty is now removed, as it appears by Letters lately reed, that no treaty was concluded the mid dle of June. The definitive treaty seems to have been out of sight, the attention of the ministry of Britain, as well as our Ministers, appears to have been confined principally to a Commercial treaty. As your Legislature are now meeting, we are told their first work will be to investigate the proceedings of Congress in removing from Philada. For my part I cannot suppose Pennsylva. claims an exclusive Right to Congress and will undertake to determine where they ought to sit, nor can I believe their good sinse will suffer them to interfere in the matter. Whether the Council did right or not in refusing to call out the Militia, is a subject that had much better be forgot than inves tigated; what was done is past & cannot be undone. The Council I am told deny that the facts stated by the Committee are truly represented, should any dispute arise on that Account, it must be between the Council & the Committee, in which the latter would have the advan tage, as the former refused to confer by writing as was requested by the Committee to prevent Mistakes. I had proposed to have gone to Philada. yesterday, and enjoyed the pleasure of seeing my friends a short time, but my indisposition of body prevented; the very sudden changes of weather hath given a Shock to my crazy constitution so far as to render it imprudent to carry my self further from home at present. I am, Sir, your Humble Servt. Abra. Clark. RC (Facsimile, Stan V. Henkels Catalog, no. 1418 [1928], item 67). Addressed: “Colo. James Reed.” ■James Read (1743-1822), brother of former delegate to Congress George Read, and a commissioner of the middle department navy board from 1778 until its dissolution in September 1781, had been secretary in the Marine Office since January 1782. See Mor ris, Papers (Ferguson), l:169n.l0, 4:3. Benjamin Hawkins to Alexander Martin Sir, Princeton August 16 1783 Yesterday we received Letters from Mr. Lawrens dated London June the 17th. 1 Mr. Fox informed him that positive orders for the removal of the British forces from New York were actually dispatched. The fears of the Ministry respecting the trade of America begin to subside
