562 August 16, 1783 and as Mr. Lawrens observes “Reciprocity appears now to mean enjoy ment on one part, & restrictions on the other, this change may have been wrought by the sudden & unexpected arrival of divers ships & cargoes from different parts in the United States.” We long foresaw & feared this evil, but it was impossible with effect to offer a check to it, the Merchantile interest about Congress being so Powerful & opposed to the least suspicion of our immediate free trade with all the world. The natural consequence of such precipitancy, I fear will be, unless Congress should be able wisely to interpose, as Mr. Lawrens observed “enjoyment on the part of Great Britain and restrictions on ours.” We may well imagine that the British Ministry will studiously avoid enter ing into any commercial stipulations with us, until they have well weighed all the advantages & disadvantages, attendant thereon, and until it shall be in their power in some measure to dictate such stipula tions. It is already known that Mr. Hartley who was sent to treat at Paris about a Commercial Treaty, is only an instrument for gaining time, if I may so express it. It is at least probable “that the present British Ministry; from some late accounts, are in a tottering state, and should the late premier receive the reins which were plucked out of his hand, I apprehend every thing in his power will be attempted to embarrass our proceedings.” We have not received any dispatches from our Ministers at Paris or from any other quarter respecting the definitive treaty. Inclosed is a Copy of the order of the British King in Council. I have the honor to be &c. Benjamin Hawkins Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, August 14, note 7. Elias Boudinot to Robert Howe Sir Princeton 18th August 1783 I have the honor to enclose an Act of Congress of the 15th instant, which had the second reading this day. By this you will see that it is the pleasure of Congress, that the Sentences against the Mutineers should not be carried into execution till the whole proceedings of the Court Martial shall be laid before them and ten days allowed for their delib erations therein. 1 I must beg the favor of your acknowledging the receipt of this as soon as possible, as it respects the lives of American Citizens. I have the honor to be &c.
