568 August 21, 1783 on Terms of Reciprocity.” To Answer this, our Ministers immediately to wit, on the 29th Aprill made a proposition of several plain Simple Arti cles full to that Purpose, and tendered them for Execution to Mr Hartly—who at first approved of them, but after some hesitation ac knowledged he had come to Paris without his Powers. He sent an Mes senger to London with the proposition—and after a waste of 3 weeks, he returned with an Answer that they could not be agreed to. 21st May Mr Hartley proposed Terms altogether inadmissable, but could not produce either Commission or Instructions for to compleat any Thing. Mr Laurens went to London from whence he writes and makes the following Observations “My former Assurances have under gone a wonderful refinement. Reciprocity seems now to mean, Enjoy ment on one side, and restrictions on the other. This Change may have been wrought by the unexpected & sudden arrival of divers Ships & Cargoes from different Ports in the united States. The british Minister at Paris candidly assured me that he was of this Opinion”. Mr Laurens mentioned to Mr Fox his wish to stay a few days at Bath, but he feared that his Presence would be necessary at the signing of the Treaty. Mr Fox answered by assurring Mr L. that he might safely remain at Bath for some Days without danger—from which Mr L. concluded that there was not any thing likely to be done speedily. Mr Laurens says that the present Ministry is likely to be of a very short duration. I have the honor to enclose three Letters to your Excellency com mitted to my Care from different Quarters. Shall I presume so much on your Excellency’s time, as once more to beg your attention, to the two Cannon that was designed for the Compte De Grasse. 4 I feel myself much hurt by the assurance I was led to give him that they should be sent to him by the Duc de Lazun, and which I was not able to effect. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan join me in the most affectionate re gards for Mrs. Washington, most devoutly praying for her immediate recovery. I have the honor to be with the highest respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed & Hble Serv, Elias Boudinot P.S. Congress have reed official Information from Sir Guy Carleton, that he has positive orders to evacuate New York without delay. 5 Mr Laurens mentions the same Thing, as told him by Mr. Fox. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s letter is in PCC, item 152, 11:431-33; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 27:102-3. 2 See Boudinot’s first letter to Washington of August 12. 3 Henry Laurens’ letter (a single document) was actually dated June 17 and 18, for which see Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, August 14, note 7. 4 See Boudinot to the comte De Grasse, April 23 and June 14; and Boudinot to Wash ington,June 14, 1783.
