574 August 21, 1783 posed, by those states that wish to have Congress reside with them, in order that each state may have an opportunity, of stating its reasons in favour of, or against any of the places proposed. Nothing has yet been done as to the old money, the Question was to have been agitated last week, but two States, Pensylvania & Maryld. left Congress as soon as they had decided not to return to Philadel phia. Eight States only remaining on the Floor, that Question is neces sarily delayed till another State shall arrive, which is daily expected. The Papers we sent you inclosed in Our last Letter, will show you the intention of Congress & of the Superintendant of Finance, rela tive to the Soldiers that were furloughed, 4 nothing more than the three months pay is to be expected. No permission will be given to the States, to pay to their own Troops any mony on account of the requisi tion for 1782, it is however expected, that Our State will be obliged to make some payment to Their Line, though the sanction of Congress is refused. Maryland has paid five months pay to her Troops out of that Tax, & it is thought more eligible, that the States should make such payments, if found necessary, even without applying to Congress for permission, as did Maryland, than that Congress should authorize their so doing, contrary to the opinion of the Office of Finance. It was stated in the instructions We received, that the Massachusetts Troops, “had received no payment previous to their being furloughed & were not furnished with even the means of Subsistence on Their way home,” upon this information We called for an explanation of this Conduct, it being very far from the intention & widely different from the manner, in which the other Troops were sent home. Returns have since been received from the pay master general in answer thereto, by which it appears, to Our mortification, that the greater part of them had received the full amount of their Notes in goods from the Contractors Stores, previous to their being marched off, & at Their own request a part of them did not take goods, & the Notes hav ing then not arrived at Camp, they left powers with their Officers or Paymasters, who have since received the Notes. Rations were allowed to them all, while on the Road, & the provisions delivered to them from the magazines. We shall send you Copies of these returns from the Pay master for your information. By Letters from Mr. Laurance & Mr. Adams to the middle of June We learn, that no Commercial Regulations had then been agreed upon between Our Commissioners & the British—the Ministry ap peared to be very indecided on this Subject, & were supposed to be in a tottering situation. Mr. Laurance who was then in London, imagined that a change of ministers would soon after take place, but neither he nor Mr. Adams say one word about the definitive Treaty—perhaps the instability of the then ministers may account for the delay, both as to the definitive & the commercial Treaties—it is not uncommon for
