August 21, 1783 575 them in such Circumstances, to delay coming to any decission in so im portant Questions. It being very material that Our Assembly should have full information as to the Doings of Congress in general, & more especially their foreign Negociations, & as many papers must be fur nished in order to give such information, We have concluded upon having a Clerk for a month or a two to take the necessary Copies. We have directed the Superintendant of Finance, to lay before us the necessary Estimates, for framing a new requisition on the States, for the Interest on the Debt for the year 1784, there being no prospect of the States adopting the late recommendations, to provide for the payment of the Interest—no State has yet adopted the plan, except in part only, nor is there much probability that they will any of them do it as recommended. This was intended as an official Letter at first, but my Colleagues being out of the way & the mail about to be closed, I must seal it with out their Signatures. I intend soon to return home, as Mr. Gerry has taken Seat, when I shall have the honor in person to give you such in formation as you may wish for. I am Sir with respect your most obedt. & very huml. Servant S. Higginson P.S. the Advertisement in the inclosed paper, respecting Mr. Morris’s Notes, should be reprinted that the Soldiers may know what measures are taken to redeem the Notes. 5 RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Adams’ draft of his July 17 letter to the Massachusetts delegates is in the Adams Pa pers, NN. 2 See Massachusetts Delegates to Massachusetts Assembly Committee, September 11, 1783. 3 For this August 14 vote, see JCC, 24:509. 4 See Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 1. 5 Pursuant to a July 30 congressional directive, the superintendent of finance had or dered the publication of the following “Advertisement” on August 16. “That the receivers in the several states have long since been instructed to take all notes signed by the Superintendant of finance, in payment of taxes; and also to take up all such notes whenever tendered, if they have public money in their hands.” See JCC, 24:480; and the Pennsylvania Journal, August 20, 1783. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah: [August 21, 1783] I have received your letters dated Monday 12 o’clock and Tuesday 10 o’clock at night and acknowledged the receipt of them.... Mr. Read was misinformed respecting the adjournment. They met on Monday but they might as well have adjourned till this time for any
