August 22,1783 577 Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir, PrinceTown, August 22, 1783. Since I did myself the Honour of writing to your Excellency last Week, we have received Letters from Mr. Lawrence (who is in Eng land) as late as the 17th of June; who says, that a few Days before he wrote, I think it was the 14th of the same month, Mr. [Charles James Fox] assured him, that Orders were actual gone for the Evacuation of New York, and Mr. Lawrence does not seem to doubt it. This Informa tion respecting the definitive Treaty is not so favorable; in short he says nothing about it further than is connected with the Treaty of Commerce. He informs that after Mr. Hartley had been in Treaty with our Commissioners at Paris for near a Month, it Appeared that he had no Powers to ratify any One Thing. The Commissioner’s from the United States made Proposals to the British Commissioner respecting the Regulations of Trade between the Two Nations; as the British Commissioner had no Powers to agree he proposed sending the same to his Court; he did so, and they were there rejected. At present it seems far from British Policy to make any Treaty with America on the Principles of Reciprocity. They have now every advantage of our Com merce without any obstruction on our Post, given to others. Mr. Lawrence observes that if a Change of the Ministry in Great Brittain should take Place, which he does not think unlikely, our Af fairs with that Kingdom will probably be greatly embarrassed. The Day before yesterday we received Dispatches from Sir Guy Car leton informing that he had received orders to leave New York, which he should do as soon as he could, but he was not able to determine when, being, as he says, obliged to provide for great Numbers, who by the Threats of Committees, and the Proceedings of the Commissioners of Sequestration, are greatly alarmed and are afraid to stay in the Country. He complained loudly against the State of New York for suf fering the Commissioners to bring Actions of forcible Detainer against Persons in Possession of their own Farms in Westchester, by which means many have been lately turned out of Possession and subject each to Costs of about ten Pounds, he has sent on the Records of Two or three Tryals: some of the Correspondence between your Excellency & himself he has also transmitted. He finds fault that the Legislature of the State of New York has not been convened. I conclude the Reasons he would urge for calling them and the Reasons why it would at pres ent be improper for them to meet. All these Papers are committed to a Committee. 1 I forgot to mention that he endeavours to justify his Con duct in carrying of the Negroes. Mr. Parker went thro’ this Place Two Days ago on his way to Philadelphia, being imployed by Sir Guy to pro cure a Number of Transports for his governments Service.
