578 August 22, 1783 Last Week a Question, whether Congress should adjourn the last of this Week, to meet at Philadelphia the first of next Week, being put, & the ay & no being called, it passed in the Negative, two States only, Pensylvania & Maryland, voting in the Affirmative. Notwithstanding this Vote I should not be surprised to find Congress in Philadelphia before Winter. The Expectation of the sudden Arrival of M. Van Borkel is now urged for their removal to that City, where he with the other, foreign Embassadors, who will probably be over this fall, can be better accomodateed than in this Place. With respectful Compliments to Mrs. Clinton, I am with great Re spect & Esteem Your Excellency most obed. Sert. Ezra L’Hommedieu. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:245-47. 1 Seejames Duane to Clinton, August 21, note 3. Jacob Read to Walter Dulany Sir, 1 PrinceTon, 22nd August 1783 The Inclosed Came to hand just At the Moment the Stage for New York is Setting off. I feel great pleasure in having it in my power to fur ther any intelligence to you of your friends—And tho I have not the honour of an Acquaintance beg leave to Assure you that from a for mer great friendship and particular Intimacy between our Ancestors I am led to entertain the greatest respect and frindship for every per son of the Name of Dulany. I Shall therefore be extremely happy if you will do me the honour to use my Services in any manner you may please with a perfect Assurance that while here or in any other Situa tion in Which I can prove Serviceable I Shall feel the greatest Satisfac tion in rendering you my best Attentions. I am with respect & regard, your most obedt. and most Humble Sevt. Jacob Read RC (MdHi: Dulany Papers). Addressed: “Major Walter Dulany, City of New York.” 1 Maj. Walter Dulany, Jr., nephew of Daniel Dulany of Maryland (1722-97), had trav eled to England to study at the Middle Temple in 1770, but returned to serve as a loyal ist officer during the war. He was restored to full citizenship rights in 1785, however, when he took the oath of naturalization. See Aubrey C. Land, The Dulanys of Maryland (Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1955), pp. 300, 324-25, 330. Elias Boudinot to John Adams and Benjamin Franklin Dear Sir, Princeton 23d August 1783. Having a Nephew (Mr. John M. Pintard) connected with the House
