580 August 23, 1783 Office Certificates. In the present week I have omitted to call for the report, as I was satisfied the States present, would not have deter mined it agreeable to the wishes of my constituants. 2 This day his Excellency General Washington arrived here from the Northward, he will tarry some time, & then proposes to retire to his Plantation in Virginia. Sir Guy Carleton hath given information to Congress, that he has received orders for the final evacuation of New York, but hath said nothing respecting evacuating the other posts within the United States, however that may possibly be also in his instruction. I enclose the last Philadelphia Paper, and beg the favor that you will send me any thing which may be interesting especially whatever may enable me to serve the interests of the State I have the Honr. to represent. There seems little hope that the late recommendation of Congress with respect to impost, will be adopted by Rhode Island, parhaps not as it stands, by some other of the States: the consequence will be un happy to public credit, and induce a necessity of other expedients, if indeed they can be devised, for providing for the public Debt. I am Sir with great respect & esteem your very humble & most obedient Ser vant, Abiel Foster RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See Foster to Meshech Weare, July 30, 1783. 2 See Foster to Weare, August 11, and September 3, note 2. Arthur Lee to James Monroe Dear Sir, Prin[c]eton, Augt. 23d. 1783 Your favor of the 8th is before me, & I am much concernd to hear of your ill health. But the mountain Air will I hope speedily relieve you. There is no account of the definitive treaty, nor do I indeed see any great necessity for it, as the preliminaries serve all the purposes of a treaty & if G. B. chuses to break with us, the latter woud be no more an obstacle than the former. But there is no danger She will attempt any rupture with us shortly, as the annl. interest of her debt amounts to £9,008,931. This year She has been obligd to add 26. Milin, to her debt in order to borrow 12. Miln. Every Account from N. York con firms me in my opinion, that it will be evacuated in three months. The numbers of Refugees gone, & to go, amounts to 22 thousd. Genl Washington arrivd here this day, in exceeding good health. He made an observation which perfectly coincides with my sentiments; & which I woud to God, the People of America had considerd in time. It is, that in persecuting the Tories we were playing Sr. Guy Carelton’s game, since he must wish to increase the Colony of Nova Scotia & di-
