588 August 24, 1783 As the question of the permanent residence of Congress is of great moment; I pray you to write me fully your Sentiments thereon—I wish to have the most unreserved communications from my Con stituents on all material points. Pray speak to my friends to write me & let them know that their Letters will come to me & mine return to them free cost. I believe no State writes less to its Delegates than R. Is land. I can say in great truth that I wish to serve the State in its essen tial intrests; but if I err for want of knowing their wishes, I shall wash my hands of all blame. 2 I pray you to mention me to my friends & to communicate to as many as you may see fit the Substance of this Letter. You may also in form them that I am fully of opinion that few if any States in the Union will comply with the late revenue recommendations of Congress. Several States have had them under consideration. Some have partially complied. Their acts I propose to send to the State as soon as they may come to hand—to the end that you may not be im posed upon in regard to the doings of other States as you was last year. Notwithstanding the promptness & boasting of Pennsylvania it will ap pear that our State has contributed more to the cause than they have in every point of view—in money, men, loans [&] Specifics—and an other fact will also app[ear]—that State, in the first stages of the war, when m[oney] was of value reed more out of the Treasury t[han] any other, (I trust) in the Union. With wha[t] ill grace then have they set themselves to villify oth[ers?] 3 I know not how far a Letter of this kind may be agreeable to you: but I have ventured to write you thus freely knowing that you have also a venture on bord the ship, tho you decline standing at the Helm. I [trust?] you will accept it as a testimony of the great regard & es teem, with which I am, Dear Sir, your sincere friend & hble Servt, David Howell P.S. I have enclosed you an order on Mr. Benj. Hopper (in whose hands I have placed a Security) for the amount of your note & an act of Pennsylvania. RC (RHi: Moses Brown Papers). Addressed: “Mr. Moses Brown Providence.” 1 Not found. 2 In Edmund Burnett’s text of this document, the remainder was mistakenly supplied from Howell’s August 6, 1782, letter to Brown, as a result of an unfortunate transposi tion and misfiling of the third pages of the two letters. See Howell to Brown, August 6, 1782, note 1; and Burnett, Letters, &A2T, 7:280. 3 Cf. the arguments set forth in Arthur Lee to the Public, July ? 1783.
