August 26, 1783 589 James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada Aug. 24. 1783 Mr. Jones who arrived the beginning of the week 1 acquainted me with your abortive mission to Maryland which I had not before heard of. To this absence from Richmond I impute your silence by the late mails. I hope for the pleasure of a line by the mail now on its way, 2 which will not however be acknowledged till the ensuing week, as I am about returning to Princeton where it will find me too late for the post of this week. All that I have now to tell you is that Sr G. Carlton has notified to Congs, his having reed, orders for the evacuation of N. York; but he specifies no time fixed either by the orders or by his own plans. He repeats his lamentations touching the Loyalists and insinu ates that the proceedings of the people agst. them are a proof that lit tle or no Govt, exists in the U. States. With great affection I am Yr. frd & Svt J. M Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:289-90. 1 Apparently August 18 or 19; Madison was writing on a Sunday. See also Madison to Randolph, August 18, note 3. 2 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:286-87. Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody Dear sir, Philadelphia 26th of August 1783 In Compliance with your Request, I have made Enquiry about Colo Lee, & find that he is in Virginia as far from this Place, on the one Side as Atkinson is on the other. 1 I shall therefore keep your Note un till it can be sent by a safe Conveyance, or delivered to your order. The Court of Madrid has at length given a publick Reception to Mr. Carmichael, but he has not been presented, in Expectation that Mr. Jay who was then at Paris, would repair to Madrid, & in quality of Min ister, go thro’ the Formalities of the Court. A Treaty of Commerce is ratified with Sweden, & one is on the Tapis with Denmark, but the Empress of Russia has acted cavilierly with Mr Dana, who in his Turn has conducted with great Spirit, Ad dress, & Dignity. I wish You was present, as a Member of Decision is much wanted on the New Hamshire Seat to form a Representation. I remain sir in Haste your Friend & humble serv, E Gerry RC (NN: Myers Collection). 1 Apparently a reference to Richard Henry Lee. Atkinson, N.H. was Peabody’s hometown.
