590 August 26, 1783 David Howell to Thomas G. Hazard Dear Sir: 1 Princeton 26 Aug. 1783. Letters from Mr. Dana At St. Petersburg, dated March last afford lit tle hopes of his being received at that Court in character of a minister from the U.S. Her imperial Majesty seems resolved to carry her princi ples of neutrality to the utmost extent. She requires that Mr. Dana’s letters of credence should be dated after the recognition of our inde pendence by the Court of G. Britain; & even after a minister from us shall be rec’d at the British Court. This however is the purport of sev eral conferences betwixt the Count de Ostermonn & Mr. Dana. British counsels prevail, at least with the minister—perhaps they fear an inter ference of trade. Mr. Dana has leave to return & may be soon ex pected. I know not what business we have with her imperial majesty. Her friendship would cost us a least 11,000 Dollars a Annum, for that is the salary of a Foreign Minister, & the expense of his secretary, clerk, & would make a round sum in the whole. A letter from Mr. Carmichael dated Madrid April last makes men tion that he had been rec’d at that Court in quality of Charge des Af faires in Mr. Jay’s absence—that he had had the honor to dine at the table of the Count De Florida[blanca] with the Diplomatic Corps. Thus Spain has come in at the 11th hour—& of course an ambassador &c is to be kept up at the Court, the expense of which can be calcu lated easier than the benefit. On Mr. Jay’s return to Madrid (but I hope he will have more spirit than to return after the neglect with which he was so long treated by that Court) he will be pre sented to his Majesty with customary formality. A letter has been rec’d lately from a Mr. Robert Montgomery, 2 at Al- isant, wherein he makes mention that in consequence of an authoriza tion, I suppose from our Minister at Paris, he had addressed the Em peror of Morocco, on the subject of a treaty of amity & commerce—that he had received a friendly answer—That the Em peror was desirous of cultivating the Frindship of the U. S.—and that for this purpose he had sent an Envoy to our Minister at Paris. It will undoubtedly be of some consequence for us to be on good terms with the coast of Barbary: & it must give you pleasure to find that affairs are in a good train for that purpose. His Danish Majesty & the Elector of Saxony have also thro their ministers signified their disposition to be on good terms with us. Thus have we lived to see the day when the U. S. are not only allowed rank among the nations of the earth; but from the renown of their atchievements all nations are ambitious of testifying their regard to us & of forming those treateis, which may lay a foundation for a friendly
