August 26, 1783 591 intercourse in future. In short, our trade is the object of the commer cial speculators thro’out Europe; and the power of the U. S. it is thought will one day materially affect the ballance of power in Eu rope. It will perhaps be our best policy not to connect ourselves too in timately with any European power—thus while all have their hopes they will also have their fears & we shall be safe. A letter has also been rec’d from Mr. H. Laurens, dated London June. He says that after Mr. Hartley had had some conference with our Ministers jointly & severally on the subject of a commercial treaty to be entred into with the British Court, our ministers deliv ered Mr. Hartley a paper containing some propositions to form the basis of the treaty on principles of reciprocity. Mr. Hartley after some time returned another paper to our Ministers with proposals some what different—and on Mr. Hartley being strictly questioned whether he was authorized to enter into a treaty with us on the grounds of his own propositions, he replied that he was not; but that he would write to his Court for such power, provided his proposi tions were agreeable. It appeared on the whole that Mr. Hartley was not duly authorized. His object seems to have been only to sound the minds of our minis ters & to make report to the British Court. It further appears that the Court of London are not in haste to establish any treaty of commerce with us. Their King is cloathed with a kind of discretionary power in regard to their trade with us. The principles of their commerce are so extensive & complicated that many things are to be attended to, many intrests to be consulted & many persons to be pleased in the affair of a treaty of commerce with the U. States. The British seek a preference in our trade. This no nation ought to have. It is the present policy of Congress (& long may it remain!) to be at peace & have a free, unfet ter’d trade with all the World. The Masachusetts State has presented a memorial to Congress against the commutation of half-pay & against the high salaries of the civil list of Congress. They speak a plain language—as plain as they spoke to the British Court. They observe that they fear that in the re solve for commutation Congress did not sufficiently attend to the pub lic good—the rules of equity—or to the spirit of the Confederation. That such high salaries do not agree with the republican principles, which the people of that State inherit from their ancestors—And that for these reasons they have with held their assent to the Impost. Why did they not first grant the impost & then remonstrate against high salaries? It is in contemplation, at least with some of us, to reduce the civil list in number, as well as salaries. Two Ministers, at the most, would be sufficient to reside in Europe—with some Consuls in the principal commercial States. Necessity should the impost not be
