592 August 26, 1783 granted will compel Congress into economical measures (and I am sorry to give it as my opinion that nothing else will) for they will not have money at command, the grants of the States being strictly appro priated to pay the debts of the U. States. And while the States retain the command of their own purses, Congress will find themselves under the necessity of paying some little attention to their wishes; oth erwise would it be should Congress be vested with power to collect & appropriate a great & permanent revenue. By late letters from So. Carolina it appears that their Gen. Assembly are now sitting—that there is no danger of their complying with the impost &c agreebly to the recommendation of Congress. They are ready, say they, to pay their quota agreeably to confederation; but they insist on a separate credit for all the money they pay. It still remains uncertain what Virginia will do. Maryland, N. Jersey, &c have partially complied; but such compliance is nugatory, for the resolves say that every tittle must be complied with—that you must drink the whole of the bitter cup—even to the very dregs. A General compliance, I be lieve, is already despaired of by the most sanguine advocates of admin istration: & in consequence certain gentlemen look as we say some what chopfallen. It is given out that nothing but a general concession will bring us right. Quere, have not late measures a great tendency, on that principle to reduce us to order? Measures are in train to enable the Loan officers to issue certificates for intrest due on L. O. certificates & other liquidated debts due in the respective state, which certificates are to be receivable in payment of the Quota on the requisition of the 4th of Sept, last for one years intrest. Also that officers liquidate all outstanding certificates agreeable to the Continental Scale & issue new certificates in their stead. It is also ordered that the Superinten dent of Finance lay before Congress an estimate of intrest to become due in 1784 to the end that Congress may make another requisition for intrest on consitutional grounds. This will I hope give a fatal blow to the second impost as the requisition of the 4th of Sept, last did to the first. The intrest ought to be paid & if it can be paid on constitu tional principles the public creditors will be contented. Every opposi tion seems to be given by certain gentlemen to attempt to pay our debts unless it is done precisely in their way. Viz, it must be collected by a penal ordinance enacted by Congress & by Continental officers situated in the several States (to support the national dignity) and sent to Philadelphia (to be counted over & pocketed by ) & then sent back again if any may be spared to the several States to pay the very men who paid the tax in the first instance. It is easy to see the tendency of this innovation on our Constitution; & I cannot but fully confide that the good sense of the States will revolt at a measure so re plete with chicanery, nonsense & abuse. I cannot but consider it as a special interposition of divine Providence in favour of the Liberties of
