600 August 27, 1783 Mr. Jones & Mr. Madison arrived yesterday afternoon. They inform me to my great satisfaction that our Assembly are proceeding with great wisdom and moderation & that they have determined to adopt the measures recommended by Congress for discharging the debts and supporting the honor and credit of the United states. This is not only sound wisdom & policy but it will be taking a noble revenge of those who wished to provoke them to rash measures. I am confident there are some who will be deeply wounded by this conduct, and I shall rejoice in proportion to the keenness of the pangs they feel. I really cannot form any opinion about the return of Congress. If public good or private convenience governed the votes of all the members it would be easy to form a judgment. I wish most sincerely to fall upon some plan that will make the time pass more agreeably to us both. You may be assured that the visit you mention was planned be fore & without any knowledge of or view to present circumstances. It was to avoid the rage of the dog star: as soon as that sets which will be next Monday week the visitant returns. I shall with great pleasure meet you at Bristol & have a room prepared for your reception. You will please to drive up to Bassonets. I am much pleased with Robert’s present plan & future prospects: so far from thinking him whimsical I consider him as a prudent man, fixed in his purpose to provide for his family and accommodating himself to circumstances as they arise. I think he would be to blame if he refused so advantageous an offer. It has my hearty approbation & I sincerely wish him success. I thank you for your care of me and shall be much obliged for the jacket. What an amazing change in the weather! I am told you had a plentiful rain on Monday evening. We had none here. The wind was high and the lightening though distant appeared to be very sharp. I desired Bond, if he had occasion to go to the office, to call for the key; but I think it would have been best to have brought it back & left it with you. He passed through this place yesterday on his way to New york. 2 As the passengers dine at Brunswick, his stay was so short that I did not see him. William proceeds in his snail pace of copying. I have not had an Opportunity of examining his performances the two days past. But I think he will improve as much as if he were with Tod. We had heard of the death of Galloway but not of the marriage of his daughter. I would not wish her as much disappointment as her father experienced but if she be happy it will be more than she deserves. Adieu my dear Hannah, take care of your health. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 For the official account of Washington’s audience with Congress, see JCC, 24:521-23.
