August 28, 1783 601 2 George Bond, the deputy secretary of Congress, had recently petitioned Congress for “leave of absence for ten or twelve days, for the purpose of going into the city of New York on some private business. My having been exiled from that city almost seven years will I trust be a sufficient apology for troubling Congress at this time for leave to visit it.” See JCC, 24:519n; and PCC, item 78, 4:403. Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear Sir. Princeton 28th Aug. 1783. The honble Court having been pleas’d to appoint a committee “to correspond with the Delegates,” 1 therefore I consider it uncertain whether I shall have the honor of addressing your Excellency, with my Colleagues, upon public business, while I continue a member of Congress, and altho’ the sense of my constituents signified to me will always be the rule of my conduct in their affairs; yet I can’t find myself willing to omit doing myself the honor & pleasure of writing to your Excellency. General Washington sometime since signified to Congress that his situation was not very agreeable at head quarters while waiting for the definitive treaty, which caused an invitation from Congress to attend them in this place; he arrived here, with his lady & family, a few days since & on Tuesday last had a private audience with Congress, which is ordered to be published; but as we are at a distance from a printer, I do not expect to be able to forward it by this post; it seems the Genl, is determined to retire into private life as soon as the definitive treaty is concluded, or the British army leaves this Country. The definitive treaty is not yet come to hand, & I consider it uncer tain when it will, as our ministers at Paris in their last letters do not so much as mention it. Great pains have been taken to prevail with Congress to return to Philada. but the members yet severely feel the situation they were in when surrounded by armed soldiers with fixed bayonets who seemed to be prepared for the worst purposes. I have with perfect respect, the honor to be your Excellys most obedient servant. 2 FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 See Massachusetts Delegates to Samuel Adams, July 31, note 4. 2 Holten also wrote another letter this date to an unknown recipient. The following incomplete draft of this letter is in the Holten Papers, DLC. “I have lately understood that you are not in favor of the commutation made by Congress with the officers of the army, and as your Judgment upon important matters always had, so I trust it ever will have great weight with me; therefore I shou’d have taken it kind as a friend, if you had been pleas’d to have mentioned to me, in your let ters the reasons you have for not being satisfied with the proceedings of the present Congress in the instance above referred to.
