602 August 28, 1783 “I take it you are sensible I was not in Congress when the promises were made to the officers for half pay for seven years & afterwards ex [change] d for life, and you may rec ollect that I never mentioned it as having my approbation but the contrary; however upon examining more fully into the matter I found that by Genl. Washingtons letters to Congress and other state papers about the time the engagements were made to the offi cers that it was considered as the most expedient & best measure that could be devised not only to keep the army together but of puting an end to the war, as our enemies would be induced to beleive that we should be able to keep our army in the feild, notwithstanding our paper money was failing & little or no credit to procure supplies or money to pay our army; upon these principles I understand Congress acted at that time, and I have good reason to think it has been one means of bringing the late war to so happy a period! And now, Sir, you will permit me to make some observations upon the proceedings of the present Congress, respectg. the commutation, that has been made with them, in making which I consider myself personally concernd. having given my assent to the same; when [the] officers perceived that the war was drawing to a close they made application to congress setting forth their services & sufferings & the promises that had been made them & the situation of the army in general & as they un derstood half pay for life was disagreeable to some of the states, they were willing to make a commutation & settle the matter; Congress finding that the promises had been made them & the faith of the united states were pledged to make them good, thought it adviseable to endeavor to make a settlement with them, but in order to do this, great care & attention was necessary to find out what wou’d become their due according to the common....” Charles Thomson to George Washington Sir Princeton August 28th. 1783 I have the pleasure of enclosing an Act of Congress for erecting an equestrian Statue in honor of your Excellency. 1 The Bearer Mr. Wright is recommended to me as an Artist skilled in taking Busts,2 & As I am anxious to execute in the best manner the part assigned to me in this agreeable business, I take the liberty of introducing him to you and requesting the favour of your Excellency to admit him to try his talents. I must also beg the favour of your assistance in giving the fittest description of the events which are to he the subject of the basso relievo. With the greatest esteem & respect, I have the honor to be, Your Ex cellency’s most obedt. & most humble servt. Cha Thomson. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For this August 7 “Act,” see JCC, 24:494-95. 2 That is, Joseph Wright, son of the celebrated American artist Patience Wright. The statue of Washington was to be “executed by the best artist in Europe,” and young Wright was to make a plaster of Paris cast of the general for the work, which was never completed. See Fiske Kimball, “Joseph Wright and His Portraits of Washington,” An tiques 15 (1929): 377—82; William Dunlap, A History of the Rise and Progress of the Arts of De sign in the United States, ed. Frank W. Bayley and Charles E. Goodspeed, 3 vols. (Boston: Goodspeed & Co., 1918-25), 1:150-56, 370-72; and these Letters, 7:57.
