August 29, 1783 603 Elias Boudinot to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir, Princeton 29th Augt. 1783 I am much obliged by your kind favour of the 20th Instant, 1 and I can assure you that I shall consider myself richly repaid for any Letter I can possibly favour you with, by having the Satisfaction of a Line in return, if it goes no farther, than to inform me of the Health of Mrs. Livingston & family. I wish I was able to give you any Satisfactory account of the defini tive Treaty, which I am rather apprehensive is at a great Distance. The Conduct of our Citizens, by their resolves & violent Conduct, I am afraid will at least prevent any definitive Treaty from taking Place, if it does not precipitate us, altogether unprepared, into another War. We have not recieved a Line from our Plenepotentiaries since you left us, altho’ we have had two or three separate ones on indifferent Subjects. The only one worth attending to, is from Mr. Laurens, dated the 18t June in London. He writes altogether relative to the Commercial Treaty, and says there seems to be a very different Conduct apparent in the English Ministry, than when he had formerly wrote. All is chi cane & evasion—and no desire of coming to an Issue. He says that if there was but one Commissioner at Paris instead of four, let that one be either of the four, that a decent resentment would certainly be shewn at the Treatment they receive. He foretels the downfall of the present ministry & that shortly. He greatly complains of our Ships forcing a Trade with great Brittain without any commercial Stipula tions on their Part. I communicate this Intelligence with Freedom, knowing you will treat it as confidential. But I must on the other Hand tell you of a Vessel having arrived from Barbadoes at Philadelphia in 13 days—who brings Letters & the Capt says, that the Day before she sailed, the Ariel frigate had arrived there from England, with advice that the definitive Treaty was signed the 22d July. It is possible, but not very probable, and the Tricks of Trade makes us yet doubt. Your late department remains in Statu quo and I see no probability of its being filled, till we get a place of permanent residence. There is a prevailing design which will certainly be accomplished, of reducing the Salary to 3000 Dollars. No one is yet named (altho it is the order of the day for this Day to make the Choice) who I think stands the least Chance. I wish most heartily, you was back again, if it could be consistent with your Duty to your family. All our foreign matters re main exactly as you left them—not a resolution, report or determina tion more or less. I am the only Minister for foreign Affairs, and all I do is to keep the Commissioners informed &c. Mr Dana is like to do nothing & I believe has left Petersburgh by this Time. There is no dis position in Congress to do Business at this Place, tho’ there are Ten States on the floor—still nothing is done.
