604 August 29,1783 As to the future destination of Congress, you know, it is almost as easy to tell the future Course of the winds. However if I may venture a Conjecture, I believe the struggle will be, between New York and New Jersey. I am apt to think some Village in Jersey near N York would be prefered. I sent your Letter by a safe Hand to Mr. Marbois, so that he must have reed it. The medal I wrote you about, is at Philadelphia otherwise I should have sent it long since. Sir Guy is at last about leaving the City, altho’ he says the number of Refugees thrown on his Hands by the severity of our People, will detain him much longer than he wished, as he cannot think of leaving them to the Mercy of a People who have but little Government among them— tho these are not his words, they are clearly contained in his Meaning. Now for a few words on my own private Business. Mrs. Boudinot has an unhappy Sister, who was Married to a Man that behaved very ill in this part of the Country when possessed by the british. He went off with them and Genl. Putnam insisted on her following her husband. He left her in New York & went for Scotland, where he remains and has left her to shift for herself. His whole Estate is forfeited & sold here. She is extremely distressed lest she should be insulted when our People take possession of the City. Shall I beg the favour of you in Be half of an unhappy woman, to give her so much Countenance when you go into the City, as to prevent any insult or Injury being unneces sarily offered her. She takes in Gentlemen to board at present, and I suppose intends to continue it. Her Name is Mrs. Cochran and lives in King Street No. 19. I wish you to mention this also to General McDou gal in my Name, as I know his humanity will lead him to oblige me. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan who does not so easily forget her Beaux, desire to be remembered to Mrs. Livingston & yourself in a very particular Manner—forgive this Scrawl as I am sure the reading will be a high Price for it. I am Dr Sir Your very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston’s draft of this letter is in the Livingston Papers, NHi. Samuel Holten to James Sullivan Dear Sir. Princeton, 29th Augt. 1783. I hope mine of the 18th of June with the inclosures came safe to hand, since which I have not been favored with any of yours. You’ll permit me to congratulate you, on your being appointed to a seat in Congress, 1 & may I not be permitted to consider you as my sue-
