August 29, 1783 605 cessor, when I assure you that I know not the person that would have been more agreeable to me; the Honorble Court having thought proper to make a considerable change in the persons that are to repre sent them in Congress, it gives me Sensible pleasure to find that the Gentell Gentlemen that are elected, are men that have been firm in the cause of their Country from the beginning of the contest; & I have not the least doubt but they will be as attentive to the honor & interest of their constituents, as the Gentlemen I have had the honor to serve with, & as careful of the national faith and independence of the united States; however they will have great difficulties to encounter notwith standing the war to be over. The definitive treaty has been expected for some time past but from the latest accounts that I have seen from Eu rope, I can’t but say, that my expectations are much abated, and I shall not look for it ’till I hear further, for the last letters from our ministers at Paris, do not so much as mention it; and I believe a commercial treaty with G.B. or her imperial majesty is not much sooner to be ex pected than the definitive. However I feel myself too independent to sollicite favors of this kind, even of her imperial majesty. Great pains have been taken to prevail with Congress to return to Philada. & upon the question whether we shou’d adjourn to that City, but two states appeared in favor of a return, & one divided; but ’tis diffi cult to get sufficient accommodation here, the members yet sensibly feel the situation they were in, when surrounded by armed Soldiers with fixed bayonets, who seemed to be prepared for the worst purposes. By a late letter from Sir Guy Carleton it appears that he has orders to leave N.Y. but complains that he is greatly embarrassed by so large a number of the citizens of N.Y. being obliged to leave this Country, which he supposes is partly owing to the proceedings of many people in town meetings, &c. &c. and that he can’t injustice leave those peo ple behind if they incline to go, altho’ it may prolong the time of the evacuation beyond his instructions. I find that it is the opinion of some persons that commutation was not the only reason that operated against the reelection of some of us to a seat in Congress, and that some change was thought necessary in the present state of our affairs; yet I have no doubt after what I have heard, but commutation operated in the minds of a majority that voted but had it the same weight with our best politicians; I shou’d suppose not: however you Sir, being present, & well acquainted with the secrets of state, can form a better Judgment. I am, with particular respect, your most obedient FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Addressed: “Honble. Judge Sullivan.” 1 Sullivan had been elected on June 28 as a member of a new slate of Massachusetts delegates, but he never attended Congress. Journal of the Massachusetts House, June 28, 1783, pp. 132-34. DLC(ESR).
