606 August 30, 1783 Joseph Jones to Benjamin Harrison Sr. Princeton 30th Augt. 1783. As nothing has occurred in the course of the last week 1 worth com municating or to render an official letter necessary, I do myself the honor to inclose for your perusal two of the last papers which contain the little news stirring, very respectfully I am, sr. Y. obed servt. Jos. Jones RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 Jones had just arrived at Princeton on August 26, accompanied by James Madison, after spending a few days in Philadelphia en route from Virginia. See Madison to Ed mund Randolph, August 24, note 1; and Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, Au gust 27. James Madison to James Madison, Sr. Hon’d Sir Princeton Aug. 30. 1783 I reed, great pleasure from your’s reed, by the last post which re moved the apprehensions excited by your preceding one regarding the state of my Mother’s health. 1 I hope this will find her still further recovered. The time of my setting out for Virga, is still somewhat pre carious; several matters being before Congs, which I wish to see first decided. An answer to this if not delayed will probably find me here. The definitive Treaty is not yet come over. Sr. G. Carlton has noti fied to Congs, his receipt of final orders for the evacuation of N. York, but fixes no time at which they are to be carried into execution. Genl. Washington has been here some days at the invitation of Congs. & will be consulted on the provision necessary in time of peace for the secu rity of this Country. I inclose you one of the latest papers containing the Address of the Presidt. to the Assembly of Pena. The latter have unanimously acceded to the late recommendations of Congs, with re spect to revenue, and a change of the rule for apportioning the com mon burdens. 2 It is said they are also about to address Congs, on the event which occasioned their removal, & to provide expressly for the protection of Congs, in case they sd. deem Philada. the fittest place for the transaction of business untill a final residence shall be chosen. 3 What effect this may have is uncertain. We are exceedingly crowded in this place; too much so both for our own comfort & for the dispatch of business. Mr. Jones & my self are in one room scarcely ten feet square & in one bed. With my best regards for all the family, I am yr. dutiful son, J. Madison Jr.
