September 2, 1783 615 Duty to which, not having been present at the Debates, we find our selves incompetent. We can therefore only refer his Excellency and the Legislature to you, our worthy Colleagues, who being fully pos sessed of the Facts, can alone give the necessary official Information. 2 With Sentiments of the most perfect Esteem and Regard we have the Honour to be Gent. Your most Obedient Humble Servants, Jas. Duane Ezra LHommedieu RC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). Written by L’Hommedieu and signed by I.’Hommedieu and Duane. 1 For the enclosed extract of Governor Clinton’s August 23 letter, which is in the Hamilton Papers, DLC, see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:436n.l. 2 For Hamilton’s detailed explanation of this matter to Governor Clinton, written Oc tober 3 in response to this letter, see Hamilton to Clinton, July 27, note 4. See also L’Hommedieu to Clinton, September 3, 1783. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Princeton, Septr 2d. 1783. We had the Honor to Receive your Excellency’s Letter of the 23d of August & Observed the Contents. We have no Important News of late from abroad and but little at home. Several weighty Matters are in agitation in Congress and but slow Progress made. Seldom more than seven or eight States assembled and one or two Dissenting Voices are fatal to all Proceedings. The States of Newjersy & Mariland have granted the five Per Cent Duty on Importation. Pennsylvania have done the same and In structed their Delegates to Subscribe the Proposed Alteration in the Confederation. 1 They have also Desired the Return of Congress to their Capital and Promised to Enable their Executive Council to Af ford a Desired Protection in their State untill the Place of Permanent Residence of Congress shall be fixed. 2 The Massachusetts have Ad dressed Congress on the Subject of the Commutation and high Sallar- ies as Obstacles in the Way of a Compliance on their Part with the Requisition of an Impost, 3 whilst they and Rhode Island are Collecting Duties on Trade in their own way and applying the Monies so Raised to the Payment of their own Quotas. The Burthen of this being sus tained by the Consumer must be Eventually Borne by the Industrious Inhabitants of our State in Proportion to the Goods we Purchase from them whilst we have our whole Quota to Pay without an Equal Advan tage of a Tax upon Commerce. This Naturally suggests to us the Ne cessity of Promoting Trade in our own State and withdrawing it from those States whose Policy is as much as Possible to lay their Burthens
