616 September 2, 1783 on us. This also is a Striking Proof of the Equitable Nature of a Gen eral Impost and of the Injustice that will take Place in Consequence of the Local and Illiberal Measures that will be Adopted by the Several States in their Separate Proceedings tending to Disaffection, Animos ity and Disunion. That the Superintending Power of Divine Government over the Af fairs of Men Cannot be baffled by Designing Mortals is a most Consol ing Truth to the Confident Heart. We Shall be at the Assembly before the Session Ends in Octor if our Attendence here can be Dispensed with. We are most Respectfully and with the highest Esteem, your Excel lency’s most Humble Servants, Sam. Huntington Benj Huntington. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Benjamin Huntington and signed by Benjamin and Samuel Huntington. 1 For the Pennsylvania delegates’ presentation of their assembly’s endorsement of this proposed amendment to the Articles of Confederation on August 28, see JCC, 24:526-27. Although they failed to mention the matter, the Huntingtons had submitted Connecticut’s similar resolution on this amendment to Congress on September 1, for which see JCC, 25:529-30. 2 See JCC, 25:530-31. 3 See Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 3; and Stephen Higginson to Samuel Adams, August 21, 1783. Elias Boudinot to the States Sir, Circular. Princeton 3d Sept. 1783 I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency the copy of an Act of Congress of the 21st ult. in which your State may possibly be interested. 1 I have the honor to be &c. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For this resolve directing General Washington to initiate action to recover “all archives, records, deeds and papers belonging to any of the United States” which had fallen into enemy hands during the war, see JCC, 24:517-18; and Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, August 23, note 2. 2 In his letter to Delaware president Nicholas Van Dyke, Boudinot also added the fol lowing exhortation to secure Delaware’s representation in Congress: “I beg the atten tion of your Excellency to the representation of your State in Congress. It is a matter of great surprise, that when matters of the utmost consequence of the Union, are daily be fore Congress, that the State of Delaware can be so exceedingly inattentive to so impor tant a concern. The Union hath suffered extremely by this inattention in several of the States. The most essential business to the welfare of the empire at large having been postponed and neglected for want of a more full representation. Permit me sir to beg your interposition as you well know the humiliating situation Congress are often in on this account.” From a privately owned manuscript quoted in Burnett, Letters, 7:284.
