September 3, 1783 617 Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir, Princeton 3d. August [i.e., September] 1783. 1 The report of a Committee on your Letter respecting loan Office certificates, was this day taken up, and largely debated in Congress: this report stands perfectly agreeable to the wish of New Hampshire, and extends to the United States at large. 2 I hoped it would have passed with out opposition, and that I should have been able by this days Post, to have forwarded the resolution on the subject; but the representation being small & some opposition made to it; suggested the probability of loosing the Question on the report, & induced the advocates for the measure, to move for postponing, to adjourn, with out calling for the Vote on (the report) thereon. Yesterday Congress received a Letter from Sir Guy Carleton, 3 to gether with the proceedings of a Court martial held in New York, for the trial of persons charged with counterfeiting & passing Mr. Mor- riss’s Notes, & other continental paper currency, two persons, one a refugee, the other a Britton, were reported to Mr. Carleton as con cerned in this nefarious business; in consequence whereof, the refugee will be turned out of the City that the United States may take him, if the[y] can, the other will be detained. Mr. Carleton hath for warded, with the proceedings of the Court Martial, a number of Types, copper plates and other implements, for the laudable business of counterfeiting Continental currency which are now deposited with Congress. I have not had the Honr. to receive a Line from your Honr. since my arrival, I most earnestly wish to be informed on the subject of Mr. Langdons coming on, or what prospect there may be of my having a Colleague. I am Sir with perfect esteem & respect, your Honrs most humble Servt, Abiel Foster RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Although clearly dated “3d August,” this letter was apparently written on September 3d, the day after Congress received the letter from Sir Guy Carleton mentioned in Fos ter’s second paragraph, for which see note 3 below. There is no entry in Secretary Thomson’s journals for September 3; and August 3, 1783, fell on a Sunday. 2 Weare’s June 30 letter “respecting loan Office certificates” had been referred on July 16 to a committee (Oliver Ellsworth, James McHenry, and Richard Peters) whose recommendation that it be referred to the superintendent of finance was adopted by Congress on July 26. Superintendent Morris’ report of August 1 was subsequently re ferred on August 5 to a second committee (Theodorick Bland, Richard Beresford, and Hugh Williamson) whose August 15 report was recommitted on the 18th. Bland’s com mittee issued a second report on August 25 that was apparendy taken up this day al though Secretary Thomson made no entry in the journals for September 3 and the en dorsement on the report does not indicate any action this day. Morris also made a second report on Weare’s letter this day, but according to Thomson’s endorsement it was “Delivered Sept. 4. 1783.” See PCC, item 20, 1:29-32, item 64, fols. 230-37, item 137, 2:761-66, 3:57-60; and JCC, 24:445-46, 489-91, 513-14, 25:535-36.
