618 September 3, 1783 The August 25 committee report “this day taken up” was also debated again on September 23 and recommitted the same date to a committee consisting of Samuel Huntington, Abraham Clark, and Elbridge Gerry, which subsequently reported on Octo ber 1, for which see JCC, 25:604—6, 637—38; and Foster to Weare, October 2 and 15, 1783. For a discussion of Robert Morris’ position on the issuance of new loan office certificates for old, “including in such new certificates the interest which may have become due and be still unpaid on the old,” see Report to Congress on a Letter from the President of New Hampshire, August 1; and Report to Congress on the Liquidation of Loan Office Certificates, September 3, 1783, in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming). 3 This September 1 letter, which is endorsed “Read Sept 2. 1783,” is in PCC, item 52, fols. 9-12. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir, Princetown, Sept. 3, 1783. We have been favoured with your Answer to our Letter respecting Mrs. Delancey, which seems to be satisfactory to Mr. Izard. 1 Tis likely by this Conveyance you will receive our official Answer to your other Letter respecting the Settlements of the Public Accounts, & Garrison ing the Posts. We have wrote to Mr. Morris and expect his answer to Day. 2 We have also wrote to Colos. Floyd & Hamilton 3 to make the Re port as we were not here, when that Business was under Considera tion. A few Evenings before the Receipt of your Excellencys Letter, I was informed by My Colleague that such an Instructions had been left with him by Colo. Hamilton who received the same early from the Legislature and had suppressed it, so that it had not been known to any Person in Congress, he having determined that it was best for the state that the Posts should be garrisoned with Continental Troops. Whether Colo. Floyd was acquainted with the Instructions I am not able to learn. It was new to me. I having left the Assembly before the same was agreed on. I was observing that I found many of the States disposed to have the frontier Posts garrisoned by the States in whose Territory they were, and not by the Continent, and that I should be glad to know the Sense of the State as it was probable this Question would turn up on discussing the Peace Arrangement, upon which the observation was made as above, and we then agreed as soon as an Opportunity pre sented to procure a Resolution agreable to the Instructions as we sup posed we had no right to Judge of the Propriety, of a Measure di rected by the Legislature. No Possession will be taken of those Posts till next Spring, and ’tis thought by some they will not be given up under a Year. Halderman has refused to permit Baron Stuben even to visit the Posts, alledging that he had received no Orders for evacuating them. 4 I think it necessary to mention what has been communicated to me in confidence, that the State of Virginia have it in Contemplation when-
