September 4, 1783 619 ever an Opportunity presents to take Possession of Niagara, on Pre tence that the Posts with Lands to the eastward of it are within the Limits of that State. Except that State makes a Cession of Vacant Lands to the United States, there is too much Reason to believe they will endeavour to carry this Plan into Execution. I am glad to find it will be in your Power to supply me with Money. I cannot determine how long I shall continue here, tho’ I think I shall stay ’till the British leave New York, which Event I expect will take place sometime in October. As I brought some money with me, I be lieve about 200 Dollars will answer my purpose; the Remainder you can keep in your Hands till such Time as I may want—it will be dis- agreable to apply to the Legislature hereafter; if no opportunity pre sents to send the Money, I can borrow it here or possibly give an Order for the same. I have sent my Accounts to the Auditor 5 with Directions (if he can Audit them without my being present) to transmit them to your Excel lency. Congress still continue here & I think there is a greater Proba bility of their going Southward than Northward. With the utmost Respect I am, Sir, your Excellencys most Obed’t. Serv’t. Ezra L’Hommedieu. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:248-50. 1 See James Duane to Clinton, August 12; and New York Delegates to Clinton, Septembers (1stletter). 2 See New York Delegates to Robert Morris, August 30, and to Clinton, September 8 (2nd letter). 3 See New York Delegates to William Floyd and Alexander Hamilton, September 1, 1783. 4 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, September 8, note 4. 5 See L’Hommedieu to Peter Curtenius, August 26, 1783. Samuel Holten to Abraham Fuller Dear sir. 1 Princeton, State of New Jersey, 4th Sepr. 1783. I shall make no apology for this address, farther than assuring you that personal respect is my principal motive. As I know of no person that gives greater attention to public busi ness, & preserves State papers better than your honor; I inclose you the pamphlet contain’g the address & recommendations of Congress to the several states, respecting our finances. 2 The difficulties Congress have had to encounter in the course of the war, can be better conceived of by you, than expressed by me, but from my personal knowledge, they have been very great, and at some periods of the war, they appeared to be almost insurmountable; and I consider that at such a period as I have last mentioned, Congress were
