Septembers, 1783 625 of your Excellency’s disposition to attend to the just application of the servants of the public in my situation, that it would be altogether needless to solicit your attention to it. As this will accompany our public and joint letter, I have only to add that I am with perfect consideration, Your Excellency’s most obedt. servant, William Ellery RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). Benjamin Huntington to Anne Huntington Dear Mrs. Huntington Princeton Septr 8th 1783 Since my Last 1 Nothing Material has hapned. A Dutch Minister is Dayly Expected to arrive in Philadelphia and it was Rumoured that Some of his furniture was arrived last Week. This must be a Wonderful great Affair, and what Congress can Do with this Great Personage in Princeton is more than Humane Wisdom can Devise for there are not Buildings sufficient to House more Dons nor in Indeed as many as are Already here. Some are under Necessity to Go to Philadelphia once or Twice a fortnight to Breath in Polite Air. The Country so badly agrees with those Sublime & Delicate Constitutions that it is to be feared that many of them will Contract a Rusticity that Can never be wholly purged off. We have nothing here but the Necessaries and Comforts of Life and who can live so? The agreeables of the City cannot be had in the Country. I Expect no Business of Importance will be done untill Congress Returns to that Sweet Paridice from which they hastily took Flight in June last Since which Time an Awkard Rustication has been their Painful Situation on an Eminence in the Country where they have no Musquetoes to Serenade them in bed and in the Day they have a Prospect of no more than 30 or 40 Miles to the High Lands or the Sea Coast nor can they hear the Musick of Carts and Waggons on the Pavements in the City nor See the motly Crouds of Beings in those Streets. This must be Truely Distressing to Gentlemen of Taste. The Ladies make less Complaint than the Gentlemen and the Gentlemen who have their Ladies here seem in some Degree Contented. The President of Congress who Belongs in the Jersy is obliged to leave his Lady in Philadelphia to Keep Possession but has the Promise of a Very Genteel House here if he will take it but not Knowing whether Congress will abide in Princetown or not, he is at the utmost Loss what to Do, Whether it is best for him and his wife to live together as Peasants do in the Country or for her to be at Philada as the Ladies do, and for him to Live as a Gentleman Doing Business in the Coun try in hopes of Returning to the Pleasures and Amusements of the
