632 Septembers, 1783 By a letter from Mr. Laurens dated London June 17th 1783—it ap pears that Mr. Hartley was not in fact cloathed with any power to con clude a treaty of commerce with us. 6 His object seems to have been only to sound the minds of our ministers and to make report. The British aim to obtain some preference in our trade; but we trust they will be disappointed. For it is the policy of Congress to be at amity and to have a free trade with all the world. The System of the British is so extensive and complicated, that it is not easy to see how all its branches will be affected by the Independance of this Country; nor to form the arrangements necessary on their part to secure themselves as far as practicable in a treaty of commerce with us. They have cloathed their King in Council with a sort of discre tionary power for opening trade with us, and mean to take time to judge of measures by their operation. By a letter from Mr. Dana dated St. Petersburg April 28th 1783 7 —it appears that he has not been received at that Court in his public char acter. On receiving intelligence of the signing of the preliminary arti cles of peace betwixt the courts of London and Versailles, whereby the provisional articles betwixt Great-Britain and the United States took effect, Mr. Dana presented a memorial to his Excellency the Count de Osterman, Vice Chancellor of her Imperial Majesty, the only result was to draw out the objections of that court to his reception. The Count informed him that her Imperial Majesty could not, consistent with the strict principles of neutrality which she had prescribed to her self, receive a minister from the United States; unless his letters of cre dence bore date subsequent to the recognition of their Independence by Great-Britain and subsequent to the reception of an American min ister at the Court of London, and subsequent also to her Imperial Majesty’s acknowledging their Independence. To these very extraordi nary objections Mr. Dana replied in substance, that to issue new let ters of Credence to him would go to annulling all our acts of Sovereignty in the course of the war, and all our treaties, and would in fact be a confession that we held our Independence as a grant from the Crown of G. Britain or as a stipulation in the treaty of peace, a confession most humiliating and disgraceful to the United States, and which our affairs by no means require. We are not as yet acquainted with the effects of this reply. The perusal of the letters and journals of our ministers plenipoten tiary at Paris during their negotiations for peace have afforded great satisfaction, and fully convinced us of the skill and abilities as well as integrity with which our most important political affairs in Europe have been conducted. It is greatly to be wished that on a general set tlement of our accounts in Europe our pecuniary transactions may do equal honor to the parties concerned therein. It is in contemplation to reduce the number of our servants in Europe immediately after the
