634 September 8, 1783 structions on that head before it will be determined, and wish only to submit the foregoing observations for consideration. His Excellency Genl. Washington is yet attending at Congress. Their address to him on his audience points out the principal object for which he was requested to attend. It hath been made a question “whether any and what powers are vested in Congress by the con federation for making and supporting a peace establishment.” 9 Since the arrival of the preliminary articles much time has been spent on this subject. It has been under the consideration of a com mittee and a long and a learned report has been made. As this report hath not been acted upon we beg leave to refer you to our friend and Colleague Mr. Arnold for the particulars of which it consists, the prin ciples on which it is grounded and the objects to be thereby obtained. The Committee appointed to confer with the Commander in chief on this subject has had an interview with him; but as yet have not re ported. In the opinion of your delegates if such power in Congress should be thought necessary for the good of the Union, it is yet to be asked for and obtained of the particular States. It is much to be regret ted that this application had not accompanied that for an Impost; es pecially as they seem so naturally connected, The Impost being neces sary to pay off the standing army, and the standing army being so necessary to secure an effectual collection of the Impost. It is unhappy that the principles of the Confoederation are not more attended to. The power of levying and collecting monies from the citizens of these States by taxes, or imposts and excises is retained in the several States and not vested in Congress as will appear by the 4th, 6th, 8th, and articles of the Confoederation but Congress have discovered a persevering disposition to take this power out of the hands of the particular States and to exercise it themselves. No power is given to Congress to keep up a standing army in time of peace; on the contrary, the military force, if any, in time of peace is to be under the direction of the particular States. Congress have only the power of checking them in this respect and of determining the quantity of force, the number of ships and garrisons which the States shall not ex ceed; but Congress are not to have the command of that force, nor of those ships, nor garrisons, nor are they to be kept up and supported at the General expence. For the verification of these positions we ap peal to the 5th article of Confoederation. Had the power in question been vested in Congress, from the na ture of it, they would have been the sole judges of the exercise of it, and nothing but their own moderation, or the want of funds to defray the expense could restrain them from the most dangerous use of it. They might augment a standing army from two to four or to forty thousand men at their pleasure, to overawe an uncomplying State, to enforce an impost or to obtain an excise.
