September 8, 1783 635 It ought further to be observed that the provision in Confedera tion is not only grounded in the danger to be apprehended to the particular States from a military power in the hands of Congress in time of peace; but it is also grounded on substantial principles of jus tice. For may it not be demanded with the greatest propriety why the States of Rhode Island, Newjersey, or Delaware should be at the ex pense of maintaining a chain of Forts from Niagara to the Missisippi to secure the fur trade of New York or the back Settlements of Vir ginia? “Qui sentit commodum sentire debet et onus” is a maxim as good as it is old, 10 and strictly applicable to this case. If indeed the States pretending claims, tho’ against all reason, to those vast western territories would make cessions of such claims to Congress, a common interest therein might justify a common expence in protecting the trade and settlements of that country; but until such an event, the States claiming those lands have no more right to charge the United States with the expence of protecting the inhabitants against the Indi ans, until a solemn war shall take place, than with the expense of de fending them against the wild beasts that may infest that country. Agreeably to instructions your delegates have embraced every op portunity to enforce the claims of the States to a proportionate share in the back lands. The subject has been before a Committee and a proclamation has been reported “prohibiting all persons from making settlements on lands without the limits or jurisdiction of the particular States, and from making purchases or accepting cession of such lands of the Indians, and declaring such purchases or cessions null and void.” 11 It is hoped that this proclamation will be agreed to and that it will prove useful. It will at least be a setting up a title to some lands and will very naturally bring on the question of the western limits of particular States. These limits may be ascertained two ways either 1st by cessions of claims of particular States, which is most eligible, in the form of the N. York cession which was accepted last year; or 2nd by a resolve of Congress limiting our guarantee to the particular State. The general guarantee contained in the 2nd and 3d articles of confedera tion ought to have a reasonable construction which is not to be made by the particular State; but by the United States in Congress assem bled. For example, should Georgia extend her claims southward or westward so as to encroach on the Spanish territories, or should any State extend its claims to the injury of a neighbour, Congress being the dernier resort of justice in such cases would undoubtedly deter min how far they will guarantee to such particular State; and also de termin how far they will justify the particular States in extending their claims westward, and how far the arms of the United States shall vindi cate such claims. Let the line of guarantee be determined (and if the States should not speedily make liberal cessions agreeably to the re solve of Sept. 6, 1780 it ought to be done) and let a continental land-
