September 8, 1783 637 The history and fate of the Impost of Feb. 3d, 1781 are too well known to be repeated. The impost of April 18th, 1783 has not been passed on by the States; it is under their consideration. Some have partially complied and one, viz, Pennsylvania has resolved to comply, but has done no more. On the justice and policy of adopting that measure your Delegates beg leave to submit a few observations. The power of the purse is the touch-stone of freedom in all States. If the people command their own money they are free; but if their Sovereign commands it they are slaves. All other strings in govern ment take their tone from the mode of raising money. An alteration therefore in the mode of raising money is an alteration of the Consti tution. It is an essential & radical change. A change that, on experi ence, will be felt most sensibly. It cannot be an indifferent thing, or a matter of small moment. It is like altering the center of gravity. It is like transferring the fee simple of an estate. It is like putting your weapon of defence into another man’s hand. The 8th Article of Confoederation, after prescribing a rule for ascer taining the proportion of taxes to be paid by the several States, viz. ac cording to the value of lands, buildings and improvements, provides “That the taxes for paying that proportion shall be laid and levied by the Au thority and direction of the legislatures of the several States”. But the Impost of April 18th proposes “to invest the United States in Congress Assembled with a power to levy for the use of the United States the following duties upon goods” &c. 13 A compliance herewith will therefore transfer this power to levy money from “the legislatures of the several States” to the “United States in Congress assembled. ” The importance of this transfer cannot be too maturely considered. The Consequence of this radical change in the constitution of this country cannot be too closely attended to. Let it be also observed that the million and an half called for annually, and for which credit is to be given to the particular States is also “to be col lected by persons appointed as aforesd. ” That is “amenable only to Congress. ” So that in short the States are called to give to Congress not only the sum of two millions, four hundred and fifteen thousand, nine hun dred and fifty six dollars annually; but also the power of lev[y]ing and col lecting the same from the citizens by such laws and by such ordinance and by such servants as to the sovereign and uncontroulable will of Congress shall seem best from time to time. For it is most clear that Congress will be cloathed with full power to make and promulgate a code of criminal law to ensure the effectual collection of the monies granted. They will have power to revise, amend, alter, enlarge, extend or abridge their laws and ordinances from time to time as occasion or the spirit of the times may require. And if a committee can report and get the report accepted that the Impost is “within the Spirit of the Con federation ” And that “the power to borrow money, ” which Congress un doubtedly have, “by implication ” contains the power of levying it by an
