September 8,1783 641 The exertions of the States, their loans, their advances in specific ar ticles, their monied payments and their personal services in the course of the late war; even before their respective governments had been established or acquired their present tone and energy leave no room to doubt that the present constitution is sufficiently organized and happily calculated to draw from the people the necessary contri butions. Should a fair trial of the powers of the present Constitution of the United States be had for a few years in time of peace and should they be found ineffectual, then and not until then will it be prudent to attempt any innovations. It should be rememberd that next March is assigned by a resolve of Congress of the seventeenth day of February for apportioning to the several States their quotas of the public charges from the beginning until the year 1789 agreeably to the 8th article of confoederation. 15 This ought to be considered as an object of great importance; and your delegates confide that the State they represent will send forward in due time the data required by said resolve, on which a constitu tional apportionment of the public expences may be grounded. By a resolve of Congress of the 18th of April last a proposition has gone forth to the States to alter the 8th article of confoederation. 16 It is proposed to alter the rule for apportioning the public expence from that of “the value of all lands, buildings and improvements therein ” to that of “the whole number of white and other free citizens and inhabitants of every age, sex and condition including those bound to servitude for a term of years, and three fifths of all other persons not comprehended in the foregoing discription ex cept Indians not paying taxes in each State. ” On this proposition it may be observed that altho’ it may be nearly true that the riches of a country generally keeps pace with its population yet a distinction ought to be taken in the instance in question; for from local circumstances and particular occupations, and ways of living in the several States, of which the American union consists, this proposition may not be true when applied individually to them. A certain portion of soil is necessary to every farmer. It is found to be injurious to the interest of agriculture to have land cut into too small as well as too large portions in the hands of individuals; wherefore in process of time as the people increase they resort to places convenient for trade and manufactures, leaving the lands to be cultivated by a competent number. Hence the people in commercial and manufacturing towns become very numerous. Should this observation be applied to the State of Rhode-Island &c, compared with the other States in the foederal union will not a presumption arise that the proposed alteration in the fifth Article of Confoederation would work an injury to that State? It may also be observed that the personal estate and effects are not to be taken into the estimate agree ably to the present rule any further than they give additional value to
