646 September 9, 1783 David Howell to William Greene Dear Sir, Princeton Sept. [9?] 1783. 1 No Letters have been received from abroad since my last to Gov. Bowen 2 excepting a Letter laid before Congress by Genl. Washington from Chev. Jean de Heintz, Secry of the Order of Divine Providence in Poland. This appears to be an order of dignity in Europe; tho of mod ern Institution. It consists of three Classes. 1st Chevaliers grand croix. 2d Chevaliers Commandeurs. 3d Chevaliers petit croix. The expences of Initia tion are for the first 110 Ducats: for the second 55 Ducats: for the 3d 30 Ducats. ‘The knights of this order, says the Letter, sensibly touched with the visible & efficacious interposition of Divine Providence in pro tecting the 13 States of North America & in giving them the force nec essary to resist tyranny & to establish Liberty, the rights of man & of nature” have thought proper to address themselves to the Hero of the age—praying him to lay before Congress the following proposal. That Congress should name 12 of the most worthy for each of the three classes of the order—in all 36, To be created, Knights of the order of Di vine Providence. 3 Congress have not acted upon this matter yet. On perusing the Confederation, you will judge for yourself how far a compliance, even so far as to nominate, or recommend persons to this knighthood would be an infraction thereof. By direction of Congress Gen. Washington is now in attendance at this place. An House is taken for him at Rocky Hill about 4/2 miles off. He has had an Audience with Congress, for the particular Etiquette whereof I must refer you to my last Letter to my worthy friend Dr. Arnold. 4 The public papers will give you our address & his reply. He was sent for to be consulted on the arrangements necessary for a time of peace. Some hints on which policy you will also observe in Dr. Arnolds Letter aforsd. In consequence of a polite card from his Excel lency the General to his Excellency the President—The latter, with all the present members, Chaplains & great officers of Congress had the Honor of dining at the Generals Table last Friday. The Tables were spread under a Marquis, or tent taken from the British. The repast was elegant—but the Generals Company crowned the whole. As I had the fortune to be seated facing the General; I had the pleasure of hearing all his Conversation. The President of Congress was seated on his right & the minister of France on his left. I observed with much pleasure that the Generals front was uncom monly open & pleasant—the contracted, pensive Air betokening deep thought & much care, which I noticed on Prospect Hill in 1775 is done away: & a pleasant smile sparkling vivacity of wit & humour suc ceeds. It will please you to hear the following which occur out of
