September 9,1783 647 many. On the president observing that in the present Situation of our affairs he believed that Mr. Morris had his hands full, The General replied at the same Instant—“He wished he had his Pockets full too. ” On Mr. Peters (from Pennsylvania) observing that the man who made those cups (for we drank wine out of silver cups) was turned a Quaker preacher—The General replied that “He wished he had been a Quaker preacher before he had made the cups. ” You must also have the French Ministers remark on the Generals Humour—“You ’tink de penitence wou’d have been good for de cups.” Congress have ordered an Equestrian Statue of General Washing ton to be erected at the place where they may establish their perma nent residence. No honor short of those, which the Deity vindicates to himself, can be too great for Gen. Washington. Little business has been done since my arrival here owing to an in complete representation. It is not expected that much will be done before a new Congress shall meet in November next. Congress will, I believe spend the winter here, or at Annapolis. I think they have bid a final farewell to Philadelphia. Tho’ no art, or exertion will be left un tried by Philadelphia to draw us back. I have been hammering, out doors, on the Subject of the Western territory—hope in a few days a step will be taken by proclamation, 5 &c. as hinted in my last Letter to Gov. Bowen. Quere—Should Congress agree to establish their residence for 15 years at or near Fort Pitt, would it not raise our back lands so high as to buy up nearly all our domestic Securities? The back Country is settling with amazing ra pidity. It is told me by a person of information that Mr M. 6 is at the head of the two great Companies of land-jobbers, Viz. the Indiana, 8c Vandalia. You may remember some strokes in certain letters written to the State—as well as that in Mr. P. 7 I have transmitted to Mr. Thomson all the information I have been able to obtain about the mode in which the public accounts are to be settled; as well as on the Subject of what will be proper charges. A Committee have the Subject under consideration. Their report shall be sent in due time. I fear sufficient attention is not paid to the Settlement of accounts & other practicable means of giving ease & satisfaction to the Creditors of the public. A curt reply on this head with some Gentlemen is—It is of more impor tance to obtain funds to pay them when settled. Everything is calculated to alarm the public creditors, 8c to enlist them in favour of the late rev enue recommendations. The Subject of the old money was resumed last Friday, after debating it a whole day nothing was done. It will be resumed tomorrow. 8 The enclosed account will inform you how much has been paid by each State—and how much they are respectively deficient. 9 The Delegates from Massachusetts (who, by the by, are good men & honest republi cans & with us in all measures) assure us that there are in that State
