September 11,1783 649 [...] 1 nearly loaded & will sail [...] Boston—or for New York [...] made for his Vessel & Cargo. [...] net & Montagu are sold [...] the Cost, as they could not be [....] I observe Briles is arrived—the sooner You sell his Flower the better. Desire Colo J. Gerry to supply You with 5 or 6 Cord of Wood on the Receipt of this Letter, which is a sufficient order. I am happy to hear of the great Success in the Fishery, & wish to be relieved from publick Cares, to search for domestic Happiness; but all Things are not yet right, that relate to the Revolution. The definitive Treaty was not yet negotiated by the last Account from Europe; but the Evacuation of N York, cannot I think be long delayed. Deliver the inclosed Letter to Mrs Gerry & with my Love to Betsy & Tomboy, & Regards to all Friends be assured... . 2 RC (MHi: Gerry Collection). In the hand of Elbridge Gerry. 1 RC damaged, 3 to 5 words missing from each of 6 lines. 2 Closing and signature clipped. Samuel Holten to John Avery Dear Sir. Princeton, 11th Sepr. 1783. I have been favored with your attention of the 14 ultimo. The small est apology is considerd by me sufficient for your not honoring me with an address sooner, when I take into consideration the delicate & kind reason you are pleasd to assign for the same; and possibly some of my other friends at Masstts. were actuated from similar motives, in not giv ing me the earliest notice of the change that had taken place in the del egation, but it was forwarded from the city of N.Y. very soon, & came to hand sometime before any accts, of it were received from Boston. I should write to you, my sentiments upon the commutation, had I not lately done it to several of the Honble Council, which I have no doubt you are acquainted with; 1 you may suppose the disapprobation of our constituents is not a matter of indifference with me, but what adds to it, is, that it respects a matter that I had taken such particular pains to serve them in, & fully expecting their aprobation in the ex change of half pay for the comutation for many reasons that might be mentioned not only to the states in genl, but to Masstts. in particular which makes the disappointment the greater. The definitive treaty is not yet come to hand and it is said here that it was not signed about seven weeks since; I have done expecting it, for the present, as our Ministers have done writing about it, for in their last letters they do not so much as mention it. Your approbation of the conduct of Congress in removing from Phila. confirms me more in the opinion that they were right but great
