658 September 11, 1783 This then is the auspicious moment! At an sera so awful and so criti cal, it is the design of this address deliberately to investigate and to ex pose with freedom, the real situation of these states, and in anticipat ing evil and misfortune, to suggest their remedy. In pursuing these objects the reasonable hopes of their preserving internal tranquility, will be the first, as it is the most important enquiry. And here let it be observed—that the same active and predominant passion of the human breast, which prompts mankind to arrogate su periority and to the acquirement of riches, honor and power, which restricted to the selfish purposes of an individual, we term ambition, is when extended to the disinterested object of aggrandizing a commu nity, what we dignify with the appelation of patriotism—that the exer tion of this principle being as advantageous to a republic, as it is use ful to a man, whoever will make the interest of his country his own, and shew a blind devotion to its views and prejudices, will find the road open to its dignities and employments, and will be honoured with the flattering distinction of patriot—and that the competition of interests and the desire of rulers to exalt their respective communities have laid the foundation of those wars which have desolated the world, and entailed misery on the human race. Unhappily then for America, the separate sovereignties of our re spective States, have left these principles to act with a force, but feebly restrained by the weak barrier of a nominal union. An undeviating ad herence to state interests, state prejudices, state-aggrandizement, (or to comprehend the evil in a term to state politics) is the sad prognostic of that discord, confusion and never ceasing war, which has been the in variable lot of separate Sovereignties and neighbouring States. A cause every way adequate to such pernicious effects aggravated by old and new disputes between the different States, and inflammatory reflections reciprocally cast, will not fail of receiving additional weight from a number of unhappy circumstances; each sufficient to disorder, even the best connected and organized system. ’Ere the war had yet terminated, the States betrayed the baleful ef fects of divided councils, and want of mutual confidence. Requisi tions for men and money for general purposes, if not contemptu ously neglected, were most commonly answered by heated assertions of the prior, undue and superior exertions of each State respectively. This illusion originating in their partial view of Continental Affairs, was supported by their unliquidated Accounts, and every attempt on the part of the general Council to dissipate the one or settle the other, have by the prejudices of ignorance or insinuations of design in the one case, or the neglect or inability of the States in the other, invariably proved abortive. Individuals in the commercial States, attached to the American cause, had received the currency of the union, in discharge of their
