September 12, 1783 665 in the first of the Next Week. 1 As you do not know the Author I hope and expect that you will be intirely Silent on any Questions on that Subject. Your paper I believe has a pretty general Circulation but tis my request that you will forward a few Copies of that which may Con tain the present Essay to your Correspondants in the different States. I Shall be glad to hear from you the observations that may be made on the present piece. If it does not Come within your plan to publish this piece you will please return it to me without Communicating it to any other person. I am with regard, Your Most Obedt Servt. Jacob Read RC (PHi: Thomas Bradford Papers). 1 Read undoubtedly enclosed with this letter the essay that Bradford published under the heading “The North-American. No. I” in the September 17 issue of his Pennsylvania Journal, for which see the preceding entry. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Friday Sept 12 1783 I received your letter dated Wednesday 9 o Clock, and am highly pleased with your arrangements with the Black family, so that there will be no occasion of sending the notice which I enclosed in my letter of yesterday, and the present tenant may take time to look out for an other place. I have received a letter from Madeira with a bill of lading for my pipe of wine which is arrived at Philadelphia in the brig Olive Branch captjohn Brice. I enclose you the bill of Lading that you may request Our cousin Robert or Jonathan to get it on shore. I could wish the porters would get some boards to save the stairs and try to put it in the store room. Where if the cask is good as I expect it is it may stand on the end and take up but little room. I find by the letter that the fine tale of the Prest. either originated in his sanguine temper or that it was fabricated merely to gain custom. However, if the wine be good as I hope it is I am glad I sent for it: but I find I shall be six or seven pounds sterling in debt for it over and above my 22 bbls of flour. There will be 40/ to be paid for the freight and I suppose something for duty on importation which you will please to furnish. It is uncertain whether I shall have the pleasure of seeing you on Sat urday. This days debate may determine it; though I am apprehensive nothing will be decided. Fitzsimmons & Montgomery arrived yesterday & Jones & Madison are expected to day. We have received a warm invi tation from the inhabitants of Germantown to fix upon that place for the permanent residence of Congress. They offer their public school
