666 September 12, 1783 for the accommodation of Congress and the public Offices, & give as surances that the Members shall be well provided with houses. 1 I am glad to find Page remembers his friends. But am sorry to hear nothing of poor Dick. Adieu my dear Hannah. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 According to Thomson’s endorsement, this “Address of the Inhabitants of German town inviting Congress to make that town the place of the permanent Residence of Congress” was “Read Sept 11. 1783,” but he made no mention of it in his journals. See PCC, item 46, fols. 117-22; and JCC, 25:552-53. Elias Boudinot to Robert Howe Sir, Princeton 13th Sept. 1783, 9 o’Clock. P.M. I have the honor of acknowleging the receipt of your favor, enclos ing the proceedings of a General Court Martial lately held in your Camp, which I duly laid before Congress; 1 and it is with real satisfac tion and Pleasure that I am now to inform you, that Congress have thought proper to extend mercy to the unhappy Prisoners under sen tence of death, as well as to those who were condemned to corporal punishment. The Act of Congress for this humane purpose is en closed, 2 as also their approbation for the acquittal of Captains Chrystie & Symonds and Lieutenant Houston. Congress have imposed secrecy on themselves as to the act of par don, in order that you may use your discretion as to the time and manner of communicating it to the Prisoners. 3 I hope this Act of mercy will fully impress these unhappy Men with a deep sense of their unworthy conduct, and lead them properly to es timate the peculiar happiness of living under so mild a Government. Congress considering the nature of your particular service have thought proper on this occasion to testify their approbation of your conduct, Sir, during the delicate investigation of so attrocious an of fence; and it is with very great pleasure that I execute this part of my duty by communicating their Act for this purpose. I write in a hurry, being just informed that the Honorable Mr. Fitzsimmons setts off for the City very early in the morning. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 Howe’s September 2 letter enclosing these proceedings and explaining at length his conduct throughout the whole of the inquiry into the Pennsylvania mutiny is in PCC, item 38, fols. 119-22. See also Richard Peters to John Dickinson, July 16, 1783.
