September 13, 1783 667 2 For the enclosed “Act” of this date, see JCC, 25:564—67; and the following entry, note. 3 For an account of how this congressional “act of pardon” was not disclosed to two of the convicted sergeants until they “were carried to the place of execution, & every for mality gone through with, except the final stroke,” see Samuel Holten to Luke Webster, October 2, 1783. James McHenry’s Speech in Congress [September 13, 1783] 1 Before passing upon this proclamation, I beg leave to say a few words. It is impossible that any act of men can be engaged in a business more serious or more solemn, than in deliberating upon an act that is to deprive a human being of his life or character. It will occur to the house that the operation of this act does not merely respect the life or character of Carberry & Sullivan, but extends beyond them, to their relations and even to all those of the same name. If a soldier falls in battle—if an honest man is killed by a robber, or murdered by his enemy, this neither injures his fame, or reflects dishonor on his rela tions. But the case is far otherwise if he dies under the hands of the law or the executioner. His memory thenceforward is rendered infa mous, and to be his relation, or to bear his name, is to cary about one a mark of indelible disgrace. These observations are recalled to the recollection of the house, to shew us the importance of what we are about. Let us now for a moment consider the crime of these unfortunate exiles. They were both officers at an early period of the war, and uni formly and till its close, behaved with that fortitude and patience which have so distinguished our army. The situation and circumstances of the army before and at the time of the mutiny need be discribed. They dis play great virtues—They are pregnant with instruction to this country and full of excuse for the criminals. These unfortunates worn down by poverty and grown desperate by necessity, that power which few per sons can resist, formed a plan to releive their wants. It is certainly an extenuation of their crime, that its object was founded in justice, and that no violence was done to either life, per son or property. It is true the soldiers whose motions they are said to have directed, had arms in their hands when they surrounded the State house—But it is also true that they did not use those arms. But other and more urgent reasons plead that their crime should be forgiven. Let the services and long sufferings of the army be re membered: and let the failings of these men be forgotten in their for mer merits and in the merits of the army. And let not the first fruits of their long and perilous contest, our peace, be watered with the blood of two of their companions.
