674 September 15, 1783 one way and another, another, they are kept still here, which only breeds more ill humours & keeps the members, and all concerned with them, in a constant fret. The hopes that some had of gratifying their malice and reaking their vengeance on the Superin. 1 are I fancy somewhat abated though the inclination and desire continue as strong as ever. In their last attack they were handled with great free dom, and the ringleader 2 was drawn to solemn asseverations that he was not influenced by personal resentments, but by public motives; though I fancy he was convinced that few believed him. On Saturday last they agreed to accept on certain terms the cession made by Virginia to the United States of the claims of that state to all the lands beyond the Ohio. This will give a great weight to the author ity of Congress. It gives them the sovereignty and property of a coun try at least five hundred miles square. And whether they make the best use of it or not, I hope it will lay the foundations of liberty still broader by the separate jurisdictions and states that will be erected in that bounds. For by the articles of acceptance they bind themselves to lay it out into distinct and separate states of 150 or 200 miles square or as near thereto as circumstances will admit, and that each of those states shall be members of the foederal Union and intitled to all the benefits of it. Some have it in idea to make this country a fund to dis charge the debt contracted by the war. The army first to have the lands promised them and so much of the remainder to be sold or as signed to public creditors as will discharge the debt. Maryland & Jer sey however are not yet satisfied. They think that all the country which lies beyond the Allegheny Mountains and which was unsettled at the commencement of the war and which belonged to the crown of GB & was by it ceded to the United states in the articles of the peace ought to be thrown onto a common stock and disposed of for the benefit of the union. They think that Virginia, the Carolinas and Georgia have no right in virtue of antiquated charters to a country gained by the blood & treasure and by the common exertions of the whole. And in this they have a great deal of reason & justice on their side. However I am pleased that so much is like to be peaceably obtained. Adieu my dear Hannah. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 That is, the superintendent of finance Robert Morris. 2 Apparently Arthur Lee. Elias Boudinot to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir, Princeton Septr. 16. 1783 I wrote you about a fortnight past, 1 which I hope has got safe to hand. Since that Time, I have reed, a large Pacquet from Europe, 2 all of
