September 16, 1783 675 a public Nature, except one from young Mr Franklin, which he clearly intended as confidential, and altho’ the Contents might be properly communicated to Congress, yet I did not think myself at liberty, even to impart the Substance to any Member, without your Approbation. I en close the Letter with the Papers contained therein, except the Letter to Mr Hartly, 3 which was undoubtedly designed for Congress. You can now act as you Please, as to the Communication of it. I take this Opportunity of sending the Medal, (mentioned in two of my former Letters) with the Explanation. Dr F. sent by Capt. Barney several more, 4 which I have distributed among the States &c. 5 We have no News in these dispatches worth Communicating tho’ a great deal of Matter, which will engage Congress a considerable Time. The definitive Treaty was not signed on the 2d of August nor likely to be signed, sooner than the 1st Septr. in my Opinion, if then. The Pro ceedings of our warm People & the precipitate opening of the Trade with England, are the principle Causes of Delay. Our Commissioners are decided, and it was so understood at the negociation, that Hostilities were to cease in these Seas in one Month from the ratification of the Preliminary Articles. Mr. Jay Means to resign in the Spring. Mr Dana is yet at Petersburgh and notwithstanding all that has passed, intends finishing His Treaty, before he returns. Our Affairs here, go rather indifferently. No Minister of foreign Af fairs—all the foreign Papers sealed up—At a distance from our of fices—Members grumbling & dissatisfied at our remaining at this Place—no great appetite for Business—so that we are not in so com fortable a State, as I could wish. I take the liberty to enclose a Letter for Mr. Morris, reed by Capt Barney under Cover, which I beg you will be kind enough to forward as I know not where to direct to him. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan are at Philadelphia. Be so kind Sir, as to make my best Compliments acceptable to Mrs. Livingston & Family. I have the honor to be with great regard, Dr Sir, Your most Obed and very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot 6 RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). FC (DLC: Boudinot Papers). 1 See Boudinot to Livingston, August 29. 2 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 13, note 1. 3 Apparently the July 17 letter to David Hartley from the American commissioners at Paris endorsed “We promised Mr. Hartley to forward these Papers to Congress,” for which see PCC, item 85, fols. 364-68; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:556-57. 4 “19 or 20" in the FC. 5 See Boudinot to Benjamin Franklin, June 18, note 3. 6 Boudinot also wrote the following brief letter this day to Gen. Elias Dayton. “I have the honor of enclosing some News Papers I lately reed from Coll. Ogden and which he desired I might forward to you.... P.S. Will you be good enough to explain to me the Terms of admission into the Society of Cincinnati and who it is designed for.” Elias Boudinot Collection, NjP.
