September 16, 1783 677 Canaries inclusive, in one month from & after the ratification of the preliminaries of peace; & are Surprized any question Should be made of the Construction of that article. 1 How far prudence or political reasons may dictate, keeping posses sion of Captures which were made by our citizens after that period, until our enemies restore the Captures made by them under the like predicament; is another question. I take this Occasion to return you many thanks for your razor which is both usefull & Comfortable. I am Sir with much Esteem & Regard, Your humble Servt, Sam. Huntington Tr (CtHi: Ernest Law Papers). 1 See Elias Boudinot to Robert R. Livingston, this date. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir [September 16? 1783] 1 I have this Week received a Letter from Govr. Livingston informing that he has had a number of applications for the Purchase of his In terest in the Oriskie Patent, 2 which he has refused on account of his Promise to Colo. Floyd of the first Offer: he says he has wrote to Colo Floyd but has received no answer and requests to know, as he under stood I was concerned, whether we are still disposed to purchase or whether he is released from his Promise & is at Liberty to dispose of that Interest to any other Person. I have wrote to him 3 for Answer that we are still disposed to make the Purchase provided the Price can be agreed on and have desired him to let me know the Terms he pro posed to Colo Floyd which I would immediately communicate to him so that he might have an answer as soon as possible. I did not choose to goe further in this Business till I could have an oppertunity of hear ing from your Excellency, and have your Opinion upon the highest Sum it would answer for us to give; As he has offers for his Interest I expect he will ask a much higher Price than he would have done be fore & will be very uneasy under his Promise of a Refusal till the Bar gain is closed, and I think it will be for our Interest to make the pur chase soon, if at all. If you are still of the Opinion that it is best buy those Lands, I beg you will write to me by the first oppertunity & say how far I may offer, provided there is no probability of getting it for a less sum, and I will, without waiting to hear from Colo. Floyd, proceed to make the Purchase as soon as possible. 4 Last week Congress accepted of the Virginia Cession provided the Condition of Guarantie and the Expence of conquering & defend ing that Country, mentioned in their Act is repealed & there is no
