678 September 16, 1783 doubt now but that State will agree to the Proposals. In Such Case all the Lands Northwest of the Ohio by this Cession and the Cession of New York will be vested in the United States, which with Attention may become a Fund for absorbing a great Part of our domestic Debt. This Cession also will I trust quiet all Claims by other States on our Western Territories. We have lately received Letters from our Commissioners at Paris, most of the Communications are under an Injunction of Secrecy for a few Days after which Time I shall do myself to transmit to your Excel lency what is most interesting. We have no News of the Definitive Treatys being signed nor is there any appearance of a commercial Treaty being agreed to, On the contrary there appears by the public Papers an evident intention in Great Britain to prevent these States trading with them or their Islands on reciprocal advantages which I believe will be much to our advantage in the End, as it will oblige our merchants to form Connections in other Nations whose Prejudices are not so great against the Success of our Trade or their own Naviga tion Acts. Doctor Franklin has sent over a Number of Medals being Copies of such as he has sent to a Number of Princes in Europe in be half of the United States. There is one for each State & the principal officers of United States. We have one which will be sent to your Ex cellency by the first safe conveyance. 5 The Inclosed Paper contains the description of the Medal. 6 FC (Andrew Fiske, Shelter Island, N.Y., 1980). In the hand of Ezra L’Hommedieu. 1 The content of this undated letter indicates that it was written during the week fol lowing Congress’ acceptance on September 13 of Virginia’s western land cession, but before the New York delegates sent Clinton a copy of the congressional report on the subject on September 19. Other considerations suggest that L’Hommedieu probably posted it at the same time he wrote to John Tayler at Albany, this date. 2 Gov. William Livingston’s letter has not been found, but for information on his share in the Oriskany Patent near the source of the Mohawk River, see Livingston, Pa pers (Prince), 5:58-54. 3 Not found. 4 For L’Hommedieu’s land interests at this time, see also his letters to Clinton of Septem ber 25 and October 16, and to John Tayler of August [?], and September 16 and 20. 5 For Franklin’s commemorative medals, see Elias Boudinot to Benjamin Franklin, June 18, note 3. 6 Remainder missing. Ezra L’Hommedieu to John Tayler My Dear Sir, Princeton September 16. 1783. By a Letter which I have received from Judge Platt I am informed that he expects in a few Days from this Time to goe on the Mohawks River and to have our Lands Apprised & laid out; he expects to get
