September 16, 1783 679 the necessary Information from Mr. Banyar. I hope he may, but fear he will not: if he does not, I expect he will receive it from another Quarter of which he will inform you. I understand that it is proposed by those concerned in Fundys Lands, to prevent Difficulties which they apprehend may Attend the Title, to cover the same Lands with Class or the other Certificates. I approve of this measure as better calculated to insure Success than the Ground on which we formerly depended; tho’ this mode will not clear the Title of all Embarrisments. I cannot readily beleive that the Legislature will ever intermeddle to distroy a Title to Land for which they have received as valuable a Consideration as they would have done provided the Title was in the state. I should be glad to have One or Two Thousand acres more in this Purchase if the same can be procured and you think Certificates can be obtained at a Price you think will answer. I understood by you when at Albany last, if I remember right, that there were some of our Company Certificates that were not so fixed, but that you could cover any Lands with them you should think best: if so I should be glad you would with my Part, if they are not already disposed of, cover my Inter est in Fundys Land which is about I believe 2000 Acres and what you may further purchase for me. If you want Money for the Purchase call on Mr Arnold who will advance it, or on Mr White who I expect will be at Albany soon and will receive my money of Arnold. As you will be on the spot and will be fully acquainted with all the Cir cumstances relative to this Business, especially whether Certificates can be got and at what Price; I desire you will act for me as you do for your self, and should be glad to hear from you on this Subject as soon as con venient. I have had the Honour to write to you once before, since I have been at this Place, but have not been favoured with your Answer. We have yet no Account of the Definitive Treaty being signed, nor is there any Appearance of a commercial Treaty being agreed to. Great Britain still blunders, they mean to embarras the American Trade with their Territories, which conduct will oblige the People of this Country to form Connection & Trade in other Kingdoms, much to our Advantage. With respectful Compliments to Mrs. Taylor I am sr. your most Obedt Servt. E LHommedieu RC (N: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: ‘John Taylor Esquire, Albany.” Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson My dear Hannah Tuesday Septr. 16. 1783. I am now inclined to believe you were right in your conjecture that those who do not wish to return to Philadelphia will while away the
