September 17, 1783 681 RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). i See JCC, 25:568-69. 2 See Elias Boudinot to Franklin, June 18, 1783, note 3. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Sir, Princeton Septr. 17th. 1783. Every publick acknowledgment of the essential Services rendered our common Country by your Excellency during a doubtful War, has given me the most sensible Pleasure, and it has been among the grati fications of my Office, that its duties have priviledged my transmitting, the constant Sense Congress have maintained of your Excellency’s great Merit & good Conduct. I have now the additional Satisfaction of enclosing an Act of Congress, by which their high Confidence, placed in your Excel lency’s Wisdom and Judgment since the War has ceased, very mani festly appears. 1 I have the honor to be with every Sentiment of Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt & very Hble Servt Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The enclosed September 15 resolve simply declared “That General Washington have access to the secret papers of Congress, under the same injunctions as members.” JCC, 25:568. Samuel Holten to Samuel Adams Dear Sir, Princeton 17th Sepr. 1783. On Friday last we had a large packet of letters from our ministers in Europe, but by an order of Congress, there contents are to be kept se cret for the present; therefore whatever I may write further is not to be considered as intelligence contained in sd letters. 1 Yesterday the delegates from Masstts. engaged all the attention of Congress to lowering the salaries of the officers in the civil depart ments, 2 but nothing is yet determined respecting the matter or the other important affairs, that so much respects our constituents; I can’t but hope the honl. Court will think it adviseable not to comply with the recommendations of Congress, respecting the impost, untill we can get some determination upon the important matters we have so often invited their attention to, for if they should, I almost despair that we shall be able to get any thing done here at present. A. 3
