688 September 18, 1783 Elbridge Gerry to Abigail Adams Madam Princeton 18th Sepr 1783 I embrace the oppertunity by Mr Guild, of informing You, that Mr Adams was well the 27th of July, & that by a Letter to the Minister of France of the 27th, the Dutch Negotiation with the British was fin ished, by which one great obstacle to the definitive Treaty is removed. 1 Inclosed is an Extract of an official Letter from Doctor F to Mr Livingston Secretary of foreign affairs dated July 22d, which is calcu lated to give a private Stab to the Reputation of our Friend; 2 at least it appears so to me by the Doctors Observation that by writing the Let ter “he hazzarded a mortal Enmity,” I think if evident, he did not in tend the Letter should be seen by Mr Adams’s particular Friends, but that Mr Livingston should make a prudent Use of it to multiply Mr Adams’ Enemies. Mr L could easily do this, by not communicat ing to Congress the paragraph: but being now out of office, the Doc tor’s Craft is apparent. You will please to keep the Matter a profound Secret, excepting to Mr Adams, General Warren & Lady; & let the Channel of Communication be likewise a secret. My Complements to Miss Adams, & all our Friends in your quarter, & be assured I remain with the highest Esteem, Madam your very humble ser E Gerry RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For the recent arrival of a pacquet of foreign dispatches, see James Madison to Ed mund Randolph, September 3, note 1. 2 Benjamin Franklin’s July 22 letter to Robert R. Livingston, which is highly critical of John Adams’ anti-French views, is in PCC, item 82, 2:389-412; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:580-88. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson My dear Hannah, Thursday Sept. 18. 1783 Another day is spent in ill humour and fruitless debates. The sub ject was to satisfy the Eastern states & reconcile them to the commuta tion agreed to be given to the Officers in lieu of the half pay that had been promised them. You know that in the midst of the war, when the army was exposed to hunger and nakedness, and their pay was re duced to a trifle by the depreciation of the paper money or, according to the phrase then in vogue, by the advanced price of the necessaries of life, the officers became discontented and wanted to resign. In Order to satisfy them, the Congress at York town agreed that such as continued in service to the end of the war should be intitled to and receive after the war was over their full pay for seven years, 1 provided
