September 18,1783 689 they lived so long. The benefit of this was afterwards extended to the widows & children of such as died in the service. Still however the army was discontented. They wanted a provision for life; that after wearing out their constitution in the service of their country they might not, in their old age, be exposed to want and misery. The conti nent was much divided on this subject. The eastern states were in gen eral averse to it, as it seemed to encourage the idea of a standing army, the other states favoured the measure. It was long a subject of debate. At length however, our finances being exhausted, our affairs gloomy, the discontents of the army encreasing, and assurances being given that this would satisfy them, & it appearing to be the only means in the power of Congress to prevent a dissolution of the army, some of the eastern states gave way and in Sept 1780 Congress resolved that such of the officers as continued in service to the end of the war should be intitled to half pay for life. 2 But though the eastern states from the necessity of the case agreed to the measure, the genius or prejudices of the people were against it, and therefore the officers saw that they could not enjoy that bounty with peace and satisfaction. You know what influence a word has upon the passions of the people. The word pension which conveyed an Odious idea was applied to the half pay, and a cry was raised, that the conclusion of the war would saddle the country with a band of pensioners. The merit and sufferings of the army were acknowledged, and it was alledged and asserted that the people would readily agree to give them an ample compensation; but that they could not agree to pay them annually a sum for life, which would only encourage idleness and dissipation and create an odious distinction among the citizens. To obviate all objections the officers at the close of last campaign offered to receive a sum in gross in lieu of the half pay promised. This was one of the objects of the deputation from the army {in January last) last fall. 3 After long debates and strong symptoms of a most dangerous mutiny in the whole army, it was at last agreed by Congress, that the Officers should be entitled to the value of five years full pay as a commu[ta]tion for the half pay; that all their accounts and claims should be liquidated & settled, and that certifi cates should be given to each of them for the balance due including the commutation; that this should be funded with the general debt of the nation; and that the interest thereof should be paid annually until the principal could be discharged. And Congress proceeded to call upon the states to grant and establish funds for the regular payment of the interest and discharge of the principal of the whole national debt. The states to the eastward, it seems, are dissatisfyed with this ar rangement, and the legislature of Massachusetts has remonstrated to Congress against the allowance to the army and the expence of the civil list. This remonstrance was referred to a committee, who re ported an Answer with reasons to shew that Congress could not, con-
