690 September 18, 1783 sistent with public faith, honor justice and humanity, make any alter ation in the commutation, but that they were disposed as far as was consistent with the public good to reduce the expences of the civil list. This report not being satisfactory to the eastern delegates was com mitted to three of them who brought in another report which has en gaged the attention of Congress for these two days past, and is likely to engage it for some time to come. 4 The report began with a pro posal to abolish the marine department or at least reduce it to an Agent with a triffling salary. This afforded a favourable opportunity to those who wished to have a stroke at the Superint. of finance, who they conceived was the agent & received the emoluments. And as every subject wherein he is concerned is agitated with great warmth & bitterness, this employed the whole of the first day. Yesterday what re garded the civil list was referred to a new committee, and the latter part of the report which related to the commutation was taken into consideration. The report proposed that Congress should pass a reso lution, by which the states should be left to settle with the Officers of their respective lines on the best terms they could and to take up the certificates given to the officers & have them discounted at the public treasury in discharge of the requisitions of Congress. This was op posed as a measure tending to violate the public faith pledged to the officers, to throw them upon the mercy of the states and to deprive them of the hard and well earned rewards of their meritorious ser vices. It was supported on the other hand as necessary to the peace and tranquility of the states and to the preservation of the Union. Read opposed it with great warmth, McHenry & Madison with great force of reason & argument. Holten who was in favour of the measure & who is a worthy good man but of weak nerves seemed to be deeply affected with apprehensions of the consequences, urged it with great seriousness & deep Concern, pointing out the dangers & deprecating the evil consequences that might ensue from a refusal. Ellery, who was also in favour of it, and who has a predominant passion to be thought a wit, and whose wit indeed, though far from being acute or refined, much surpasses his judgment or honesty, endeavoured to represent the half pay as extorted from the fears of Congress; and as he scorns to confine his fancy within the bounds of truth, he boldly attempted to impose on the members by the grossest falshoods, in which how ever he was immediately detected. But to cover his confusion, he en deavoured to turn the Attention of the house by an attack upon the secretary 5 who had contributed of the detection. In this he was also foiled. And he was obliged to sit still under the disgrace of having ei ther lost his wit or his memory or of having no regard to truth. I am indeed heartily weary of this scene and if it continues much longer, I am inclined to think I shall wish to withdraw from it. Still however I entertain a fond hope that the same kind providence which
