September 19, 1783 691 has conducted us so far in our journey will open a way for the future happiness and prosperity of the United States. To his protection I re- comend you and Am with sincere Affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 See these Letters, 9:356n.3, 675—76. 2 Congress actually adopted this resolve on October 21, 1780, for which see JCC, 18:958-59; and these Letters, 16:234-35. 3 For the presentation of the “December 1782” memorial carried by this deputation, see James Madison’s Notes, January 6, 1783, note 2. 4 For the reports and debates on Massachusetts’ July 11 remonstrance against exces sive Continental expenditures, see Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 3; and JCC, 25:571-87, 606-13. 5 That is, upon Thomson himself. For a possible explanation of the origin of this clash between Ellery and Thomson, see William Ellery to Francis Dana, December 3, 1783, note 11. New York Delegates to George Clinton Dear Sir Princeton, 19th Sept. 1783 It is with great anxiety that we were informed that your Excellency has fallen under a dangerous Illness. We were therefore much com forted by Colo. Benson’s Favours of the and the Instant 1 which gave us Hopes that the Severity of the disorder was greatly abated, and we flatter ourselves that before long your Health will be reestablished, and that you will be enabled to return to the Duties of your Station with Satisfaction to yourself and with those great Advantages to the public which they have experienced from your Zeal and Patriotism. We have laid before Congress your Excellencys Correspondence with Sir Guy Carleton. 2 We did not propose it should be the ground of any immediate Act of Congress, but conceived that useful Purposes might be answered if it should become necessary to investigate Sir Guy’s Conduct. Besides we thought the Honour of our Government was concerned in preserving that Correspondence entire, which Sir Guy had mutilated by transmitting but a single Letter of his own out of all that passed between you. Congress have at length decided upon the Virginian Cession of western Territories. That State, it is thought, has insisted upon hard Terms. We have never the less agreed to them for Two Reasons: Be cause it was a Subject which could only be closed by Composition; and because there is now left as the undoubted Right of the United States an immense Tract of Country which is daily overrun by lawless men (who endanger by their Rashness a new Indian War) and which might be improved to great public Advantage. We need not add that it has a
