692 September 19, 1783 further Tendency to silence Questions respecting the western Territo ries which have proved a great obstacle to public Business and might have been a source of internal Contentions and Convulsions. We inclose a printed Report which was agreed to and approved by Congress as amended. 3 With our earnest Wishes for your Excellency’s Health and Happiness, We have the Honour to be most respectfully, Dear Sir, Your Excellencys most Obedient & very Humble Servant, Jas Duane E L’Hommedieu FC (NHi: Duane Papers). In the hand of Ezra L’Hommedieu. I Robert Benson’s September 4 and 7 letters reporting Governor Clinton’s illness are in Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:250-52. 2 See James Duane to Clinton, August 21, note 3. 3 See PCC, item 30, fol. 565; and JCC, 25:559-63, 988. See also John Francis Mercer to Henry Tazewell September 13, note 4. James Duane to Mary Duane Princeton 20th Septemr. 1783. I have been made happy my dearest Polly in frequent Accounts from yourself, our dear Daughter and lately from our honored Father of the Health of our Family and Friends. The time is swiftly approach ing when there will be no Occasion for seperation [and] when we shall sit down in domestic Comfort—with God’s blessing—after all the trials and Storms which have driven us into Exile and torn us from each other. It is a Consolation that I have continued for so many years in an al most uninterrupted State of Health, and been able to serve my Coun try without Intermission in the important Trust reposed in me. The definitive Treaty of peace was not signed when we receivd our last dispatches. The British have however reduced their Army and are preparing to leave New York: and there is no Reason to doubt but we shall soon get rid of them. The time they themselves cannot, if they were disposed to it, ascertain. Col. Harry will tell you better than I can the situation of our Property, which when the British please Capt Miller who is on the Spot will take possession of for us: but I have en- joyned him to ask no Favour for I will have none from their Hands. Kiss and bless for me our dear Children. I shall write by Tom to our honord Father & to our Daughters who will I flatter myself send a Line for me once a Week to Johnson’s which will be safely sent for ward by the post. I pray God to bless you and our dear Children with Health and every possible Degree of Comfort and Happiness, being
