September 20, 1783 697 seen in the hands of the Executive. 2 I sincerely hope it may meet the Ultimatum of Virga. The circumstances which produced brevity in my last as strongly recommend it at present. 3 Adieu, J. MJr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:357. 1 Actually the same day as his “last,” for which see Madison to Randolph, September 13, and John Francis Mercer to Henry Tazewell, September 13, note 4. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, this date, note 2. 3 That is, the lack of writing facilities in Madison’s cramped quarters in Princeton. John Francis Mercer to George Weedon Dear General: Princeton, September 20, 1783. I have the pleasure of yours, of the 9th, but am by no means de cided on the debt. I rather think you stand in arrears to me two or three very long epistles. The last week I directed a letter to Mr. Fitzhugh, which is to be con sidered in a great measure a joint one, 1 the first part I am sorry you have not yet given me occasion to consider as such. I stated almost every article of intelligence from Europe that I can now hold myself at liberty to communicate—but would observe, that France has given us every assurance that the definitive treaty shall not be signed without us—at the same time, they hint that our own facility in running into British commerce, &c., and the little appearance of concert between the different states, has retarded the general negotia tion. However, we have reason to apprehend that not only Great Britain, but all the other European powers, even our friends, will pur sue the object of deriving advantages from our commerce, without al lowing us reciprocity—for if one European nation does this, the oth ers must pursue the same policy or submit to subject themselves to great disadvantages. We are pursuing the peace arrangement, but under many discour agements, which damp our ardor. I hope, however, all difficulties may be surmounted, and all measures so necessary and salutary, may be completed. I am under the pressure of land debates, and must con clude with assuring you that any thing that shall offer which will corre spond with your wishes, shall with the utmost zeal be promoted by, Dr. General, Your friend, and very h’ble Servant, J. F. Mercer. MS not found; reprinted from Balch, Papers Relating to the Maryland Line, pp. 212-13. 1 Not found.
