September 25, 1783 701 I have the honor to be with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed & Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The former directed Washington to communicate with Gen. Robert Howe “the thanks of Congress... for the prudence and propriety with which he executed the en quiry into the late mutiny,” as well as accolades to his troops for their conduct during their assignment to Philadelphia. See JCC, 25:566-67, 604. That of the 24th was a “Se cret” order, not committed to the journals, declaring “That the Commander in Chief be authorized to discharge such parts of the Foederal Army now in Service as he shall deem proper and expedient. And that he direct that necessary Cloathing be immedi ately provided for those that may be longer retained in Service.” JCC, 25:606. For the context of this resolve, see also Committee of Congress to Washington, September 22, note. Committee of Congress Report [September 25? 1783] The Comee. appointed to consider the dispatches from the foreign Ministers & to report what measures are necessary for Congress to take thereupon; have very attentively perused their dispatches & sub mit the follow’g report. 1 1. It appears clearly from Mr. Adam’s letters of the 23d of June and 14th & 18th of July; the Ministers joint letter of July 27th & Dr. Franklin’s letter of the 22d July, that the Courts of France & Great Britain particularly the latter, hath discovered the utmost Jealousy of the commercial Prosperity 2 of America—that they have it in contempla tion not only to cramp & restrain our commerce, by prohibiting an in timate & extensive intercourse between America and their West India possessions, but to deprive us as much as possible of the carrying trade by prohibiting any American Vessel from importing into G. Britain any commodities, but those of the State to which it belongs. Your Committee consider this System of Policy as most pernicious 3 to the interests of America; for should we be deprived of a direct trade with the British & French West India Islands, & of carrying the pro duce of those Islands to Europe, great sources of wealth & conve nience to the United States will be lost. Should the other restriction take place, and the Vessels of each of the American States be confined to the importation into G. Britain, of the exports from that State only, a great part of the carrying trade which arises from the exportation of American produce to Europe, will be engrossed by Europeans, the great nursery for seamen will be in a good degree lost, and a very im portant & profitable branch of commerce, be transferred from the Citizens of these United States to Foreigners—it is therefore of the highest importance in the opinion of your Committee, especially as these restrictions are probably only a part of a system which if carried into effect must prove compleatly ruinous to the American Com-
