702 September 25, 1783 merce—that a General Power be somewhere lodged for regulating the concerns of the United States: for should those restraining Sys tems be pursued by Britain & France and other states which will prob ably be drawn into 4 the same system, some regulations to exclude them from our carrying trade, will be absolutely necessary, or they may eventually become the sole carriers even of our own produce. On this head your Comee. submit to the Consideration of Congress 5 whether it may not be expedient to appoint a special Comee. to pre pare an address to the States on the subject of Commerce stating to them the commercial Regulations which are prevailing 6 in Europe, the evils we apprehend and the proper steps on their part to guard against and counteract 7 them ... and 2. to report measures necessary to be taken by Congress, among which may perhaps be reckoned treaties of Amity & Com merce with the other Great Powers in Europe, & the residence of an able Minister or Agent at the Court of London. 3. That it appears also from those dispatches, particularly from the letter of July 18th from Mr. Adams; that not only a continuation but an additional cement to the Union is necessary—that if the United States do ever become a great, a powerful & a flourishing Nation, re spectable in Commerce & in Arms, it must be by having a well formed federal Government, sufficiently effective to collect the resources of the Country to a point when necessary, & to make such general ar rangements whether of a Commercial or political nature, as circum stances may from time to time require—for as it is clearly not the in terest of any maratime European Power, to promote rapidly our encrease in numbers & in wealth, on the contrary they appear appre hensive of our growing importance; We may expect if we are not at tentive to our own interests, & have not energy enough to secure our own honour, to be treated with insult & disrespect by them all in their turns. 4. Your Comee. would therefore propose the appointment of a special Comee. to deliberate on this Head. It appears farther from Mr. Adam’s letter of and Dr. Frank lin’s letter of 22d July, that propositions for entering into treaties of Amity & Commerce have been made to our Ministers, by the King of Denmark, the Court of Portugal, the Emperor of Germany the King of Prussia, the Grand Duke of Tuscany, the Court of Spain and that all the other Powers of Europe discover a like disposition. A Spe cial Comee. is recommended on this subject, to consider whether gen eral outlines of treaties with those several Powers, or instructions to our Ministers as to the principles of such treaties, shall be forwarded & to report the necessary forms in either case. Letters should be writ ten to our Ministers directing them to stop all loans in Europe, to make all necessary representations to the Court of Denmark for ob taining restitution for the Prizes sent into Bergen by the Alliance—to
