September 25, 1783 705 pose the person that corresponded with you, must be a gentleman of character in Masstts. & therefore his observations may be thought worthy of notice. Mr. Gerry is really unwell, & I fear he will be wholely confin’d. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect your most obedient 6 FC (NjR: New Jersey Letters). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Higginson apparently left Princeton September 22, as this report on Meshech Weare’s letter was debated and recommitted on the 23d. See JCC, 25:604-6n.l. 2 See the following entry, note 5. 3 See Elias Boudinot to Washington, this date. 4 See JCC, 25:606-13; and Massachusetts Delegates to Massachusetts Assembly Com mittee, October 1, 1783. 5 See Holten to James Sullivan, June 18 and August 29, 1783. 6 Holten had also sent Higginson the following brief “Billit” on “Friday morn” the 19th. “Dr. Holten presents his compliments to the hone. Mr. Higginson, & requests that he would favor him with the newspaper, that contains the provisional treaty, & also with some sealing wax.” To his draft of the note, which is in the Holten Papers at MHi, he also appended the comment: “N.B. I reed, some sealing wax, but not the treaty altho’ I lent it to him some time since.” David Howell to Nicholas Brown Dear Sir, Princeton 25 Sept. 1783 Nothing of consequence has been done in Congress since my last, 1 except in regard to the cession of Virginia. The report of a comee some time ago enclosed to your Brother Joseph [h]as been agreed to. 2 Some doubt whether Virginia will alter their cession so as to conform it to the views of Congress; but it is the more prevailing opinion that they will. The result will soon be known as their Legislature will be convened next month. It is now three years since Congress recommended to the States to make liberal cessions of their claims to Western territory. Three ces sions only have been made, one was accepted last year, Viz. N. York; another has been repealed since the return of peace, Viz. Connecti- cutt; and it has been suggested that Virginia was about opening her land office. No. Carolina & Georgia have opened their land offices & it is said are making every arrangement to dispose of their back lands to advantage. Thus Situated Congress have been induced to accept a cession of Virginia far short of what she ought to have made. And the proclamation mentioned in a letter to gov. Bowen has passed the House. 3 Eight States agreed to the cession. The Territory which will be vested in Congress should Virginia agree to our proposals will include, it is said by the most knowing, about five hundred thousand square miles—A territory about five hundred times as large as the State of R. Island.
