September 25, 1783 707 3. O’Clock. P.M. This day has been spent in a Comee of the whole House on the jurisdiction necessary for Congress over the place of their perma nent residence. 6 It is said that Tyrants make a small circle about them [selves] for their own Security: & I am sorry, that a Confedera tion of republics should apprehend a necessity of enslaving a small cir cle about their Supreme Council for its safety. Nothing done. Col. Wm. Peck passed thro’ this day to Philadelphia. I want much to hear from you—pray write me a long old-fashioned Letter on politics, &c. &c. The Dutch Minister has not had his Audience with Congress, nor arrived as we know of—notwithstanding the reports. In a Letter from Mr Jay dated 22 April—He says that it will perhaps be our policy to do nothing in regard to the refugees ’till after N. York shall be evacuated—and then to receive all but “the perfidious & the cruel. ” 7 Quare, How many will finally be excluded by his rule? I was pleased on reading over one of Mr. John Adams’s Letters to Congress, dated soon after his arrival at Paris & his great Success in Holland in procuring loans & a Treaty of Amity & commerce. He mentions a variety of Compliments paid him by the Parisians; and among others the following “Vous ete le Washington de la negotiation. ” “You are the Washington of negotiations. ” 8 This was allowed to be the highest pitch. And it occurred to me that I had a good authority for having in former Letters spoken freely of myself. When persons are el evated to high Stations they are apt to become vain. It is a general fault of human nature & while our enemies are severe one expects candour & forgiveness from friends. I must refer you to a late Letter to Commodore Hopkins 9 for an ac count of the Success of our foreign Loans. I should have written to Dr Arnold by this post; had he not written me that he was going to Vermont about this time. Should he not be gone pray shew him this letter. You will also please to shew it to his Honor the Deputy Gov. & to other friends as prudence may direct. I have reed a Letter from President Manning to which I have not time to reply by this post. 10 He wants to know when I propose to re turn & whether I would undertake in the College in his place, in case he goes to Europe? I cannot at present answer either of these ques tions. It is my wish to do some service to the State before I return—lit tle has yet been done; nor is it to be expected that much will be done ‘till winter. I am very glad to hear that Mr John Brown has undertook to fur nish the College with a Library & Apparatus. 11 I shall send on a Cata logue of books, &c. as soon as I can. Please to give my kind regards to Mrs Brown & to all friends & be lieve me to be as heretofore, Dear Sir, your assured friend & very hble Servt. David Howell
