710 September 25, 1783 Congress are taking Measures for establishing a Boundary between the Indians and the Settlements made or to be made by the United States as Part of a Plan for insuring a lasting Peace with the Savages. So soon as any Act of Congress shall be passed, on the Subject, we will do ourselves the honor to transmit a Copy thereof to Council. 2 We have the honor to be with great Respect and Esteem, Your very obedi ent Servants, John Montgomery Richard Peters Tr (PHarH: Record Group 27). Addressed: “To His Excellency the President of the Council of Pennsylvania.” 1 For these September 13 resolves and the September 22 proclamation, see JCC, 25:559-64, 602. 2 See Pennsylvania Delegates to Dickinson, October 24, notes 4 and 5. Pennsylvania Delegates to the Pennsylvania Assembly Sir, Princeton Septr. 25th. 1783 We have the Honour to transmit the Proceedings of Congress on the Subject of the Instructions of the Honble House relative to the pro posed Purchase of the Indians inhabiting or claiming part of the Terri tory of Pennsilvania. By those Proceedings the House will perceive the Obstacles to a Compliance with their Wishes. 1 The Committee on In dian Affairs have made a Report which is now before Congress & this Day is appointed for its Disscussion. The Principles of that Report mili tate against the Ideas of the House with Respect to the proposed Pur chase. 2 It is intended to insist as Part of the Terms of Peace that the Sav ages should without Compensation abandon Part of their Country to the United States who claim it by Conquest & as a Retribution for the Expence & Damages incurred by the hostile & cruel Conduct of the Savages contrary to the Advice & Injunctions of the United States. A Boundary Line is proposed to be established between the Indians & the Citizens of these States & it was believed that if any particular State made a Purchase it would obstruct the general Measures, as the Indians would not agree to the Dereliction of any Part of their Country as a Compensation for the Expenses & Ravages occasioned by the War when they find that tho’ the general Council refuse it they can obtain Money for it from the Individual States. Whether these Principles be just or the Policy advisable we do not pretend to determine. We held it our Duty to state the Impediments preventing Congress from agreeing to the Propositions of the State & leave the Honorable House to determine as they in their Wisdom shall think proper.
