716 September 26,1783 particular have collected their full quota of that money and there are large sums still in the hands of their Citizens for which they desire to be creditted at the rate of 40 for one, we are told that it would be diffi cult perhaps impracticable to collect taxes in that State, where there is a ballance of 47 millions of such Dollars, unless the holders obtain a value for Them. The Delegates uncertain [what steps] 5 might be taken on that subject & fearing that the State of North Carolina might finally have to pay in some manner her quota of that money, re quested that you would be so good as cause the different Treasurers to account for the sums they had received of the old Continental money, in order that our state might be credited for the same. Certainly large sums of that money were collected by taxation in the beginning of the Year 1782 but we do not learn that any account has ever been taken of the sum. When the delegates are asked what the State has done on this head, we are obliged to answer, as in all other cases where we are interogated concerning money matters or Public accounts, that we are absolutely without information. Merely for the want of such informa tion we have been obliged to negative every question that has been put on the subject of Continental money. Having mentioned Public accounts, we have to intreat that all pos sible aid may be given the Comptroller to enable him to perfect them, and wipe off the reproach of our State on that subject. The reputation of the State & certainly their interest requires that all public accounts be settled as soon as possible, while facts are recent, while the exer tions & suffering of North Carolina are remembered by all the States difficulties may be more easily solved & justice the more easily ob tained. Excepting the Law for opening the land office and emitting some money we are altogether uninformed respecting the Laws passed at the last Session of the General Assembly. We have not heard whether the Resolves of the Assembly or even the Laws have been printed nor do we hear that the art of printing is in the State unless for the pur pose of making money. This we mention because applications have been made to us by several printers to recommend them to be em ployed to print for the State. One of them is an excellent workman & extremely diligent. He is willing to print any thing for you as reason able as it is done in Philadelphia where there are so many rivals un derbidding one another. If the State had not a printer, and has any in tention to reprint the Laws that are in force or even to print the future laws & resolves correctly & punctually and wish to employ a workman for that purpose: we can recommend one who is able & courts the honor of that service. You doubtless recollect that though the confederation was agreed to in Congress on the 15th November 1777 it was not finally ratified by all the States before the 1st of March 1781 at which time Maryland
