September 26, 1783 717 ratified under a solemn protest. Her objections were that some States should claim & possess vast tracts of vacant unappropriated lands, pro tected & rescued from the Crown of Great Britain by the joint efforts of the United States should become a fund for the payment of the na tional debt. In order to induce Maryland & other States who had no vacant territory to accede to the confederation, Congress long since called on the States, who claimed vacant Lands, to make liberal ces sions of the same to the United States. On the 29th February 1780 the State of New York & on the 2d January 1781 the State of Virginia made a cession of part of their respective claims, neither of the ces sions were very acceptable to the States who had no western territory. However on the 29th October 1782 Congress, pressed by the alarming state of public credit, accepted the cession of New York & on the 13th Instant the[y] accepted the Virginia cession, under certain limitations No. 4. 6 Few of the States are reconciled to the Virginia cession. They argue that she ought to have given more or she ought to have given it less encumbred, but necessity compelled an acceptance. Our army is extremely impatient to obtain the lands that were promised them, and without the Virginia cession we had nothing to give, for tho New York claimed & ceeded the greatest part of the lands between the River Ohio & the lakes as belonging or having belonged to the six nations or their Tributaries; the State of Virginia also claimed the whole of those lands under the shadow of some old Royal Grant. Congress being possessed of both claims may be enabled to pay of[f] the army & perhaps a considerable part of the national debt. The Eyes of every State to the Northward are now turned towards the Carolinas & Georgia & expecting from them liberal Cessions. The Delegates not informed whether your reserved Lands were for your Officers & Soldiers only or for the army at large or whether the office is now opened for sale of all lands on this side the Mississippi as far South as the Southern boundary of the State, have not been able to give any satisfactory information respecting the matter. At present however, laying aside the justness of their claims, and our refusal to make a cession of part of ours: we are necessitated to declare that, the blame lies on Congress for having so long neglected to take up & de termine on the Virginia cession; as they thereby, impressed North Car olina firmly with a belief that their pretended earnest recommenda tions to the States to make liberal Sessions, was only meant to give time to the land-jobbing to engross all the unappropriated western Territory; to prevent which, & injustice to our numerous creditors, it became absolutely proper as well as politic for us to open our land of fice: and that it is probable our State may have gone so far as to put it out of their power, however well inclined they may be, to make a ces sion worth the acceptance of Congress.
