718 September 26, 1783 You may readily imagine that we are not a little embarrassed; we have accepted the cessions of two States from which it is expected North Carolina will receive advantages equally with the other States, and altho we have an extensive western territory we have not ceded any. Our State we believe is in width one degree and an half; the one degree belonged to the late Earl of Granville & it cannot be doubted we had a right to confiscate his property; This we may sell & the United States cannot claim it, as heirs to the King of Great Britain, (if we may so express it), nor can they desire us to give it up, more than we desire Pennsylvania or Maryland to give up the Lands confiscated in those States that did belong to the proprietors or other subjects of Great Britain. As for the remaining half a degree, it may seem to be in the same condition with the vacant Lands in other States and if North Car olina should reserve two hundred miles long of it, more or less, on the western & Southern boundary to be ceded hereafter to the United States, on certain conditions, perhaps she might prevent many com plaints & fair more by the Conditions than the land will ever bring her. We are not able to determine when the British forces will be with drawn from the United States. The general in Canada has informed our general, that he has not received any orders on this head: and from New York we have not any thing since our last. We have the honor to be &c &c Benjamin Hawkins Hugh Williamson Tr (Nc—Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See North Carolina Delegates to Martin, March 24, 1783. 2 The enclosed “proclamations” were apparently orders-in-council issued by George III dated June 6 and July 2, 1783, which were printed in the August 19 and September 11 issues of the Pennsylvania Packet, respectively. By “the terms first offered [i.e., in the June 6 orders],” tobacco and “pitch, tar, turpentine, indico, masts, yards and bowsprits” of American production could be imported into “the ports of this kingdom” by British subjects or American citizens in either British or American ships. But by terms of the latter, these products and many other enumerated articles could be imported into “hi'. Majesty’s West India Islands” by British subjects in British bottoms only. See also James Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 13, note 2; and Benjamin Hawkins to Mar tin, September 27, note 2. 3 For this April 26 “address," see Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783. 4 This enclosure was probably a copy of the “Account of Payments made by the States to the Receivers” that Robert Morris submitted to Congress on August 1, for which see David Howell to William Greene, September 9, note 9. 5 From text in N. C. State. Records, 16:887. 6 For the enclosed report on Virginia’s cession, see John Francis Mercer to William Fitzhugh, September 13, 1783, note 4. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Franklin Dear Sir, Philada. 26 Sept 1783 Mr Isaac Norris is the son of our ancient and worthy friend Mr Charles Norris. 1 Though I am confident this would be a sufficient
