September 27,1783 729 The risque of a voiage to Europe & the casualties of journeying thro’ G. Britain—The labour & fatigue of Solicitation—The little af fronts & the cool treatment on some occasions—the compliances & degrading submissions on others, are subjects worthy of your consid eration before you set off. You have every reason to believe that your character stands so high in England at present that encreasing fame can be no object to you. If you should exceed their expectations, you must be more than mortal (I had almost said). Should Mr. Rogers, or any other suitable person go to England on this business, I think he could avail himself & benefit the College very much from your character & from your being actually so necessary to the being of the Collige that you could not be spared from home. And the wish to give you immediate relief in your great Embarrassments would draw out many a Guinea in my apprehension. You mention that Mr. Wheelock 3 is gone already on a similar errand & that it is proposed, or wished to send some person to Europe this fall. I really think that no time can as yet be lost. By our latest accounts the definitive Treaty was not signed. There has for some years been so much ill-blood & spilt-blood betwixt the two Countries that it is not likely to me that the present juncture is above all others favorable for this purpose. I hope no time will be lost in making an application to Congress to compensate the dammages done to the College edifice while occu pied by the public. My services shall not be wanting. The French Minister resides at Philadelphia. I cannot therefore confer with him on the Subject you mention—unless he should visit us, or I him. The first opportunity I shall attend to your request. I am glad to find that Mr. Gain has begun to collect money for the College. £13 is something. I hope you will be mistaken in your conjecture that Philadelphia will be our Winters residence. There is no appearance of it at present. The Delegates for Delawar have arrived & the vote of that State can not be obtained for Philada. before its delegates shall be altered. Georgia has not arrived, & should her delegates with all to the South ward join, as they cannot get a State on this Side Delawar, nor Delawar, they form but six States. The President of Congress has taken a House in this Town; & here I expect we shall winter. I am glad to hear that Mrs Manning & Mrs An thony have paid Mrs Howell a visit in my absence. Please to present my best regards to Mrs Manning & to all enquiring friends. It gives me great pleasure to hear that my Son performed well at the last public speakings. Speaking well is the Unum necessarium in po litical life. Had I to live my early days over again I would bestow more attention on that important art. I hope my Son will, as he grows older
