September 30, 1783 733 prizes made by & from parties not subject to the power before whose maritime courts they are carried, are Provisionally or finally tried? 2d. How far the rules established by the Sovereign of the Captor & those by the Sovereign of the Courts prevail in such trials? 3dly. What dif ference is made in cases where both the parties concerned in the capture are subject to the same power and where they are subject to different powers? RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:363-64. 1 For Randolph’s two letters of September 13, see ibid., pp. 316-18. 2 For the “commission” from Pieter Johan van Berckel, the new Dutch minister, see Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, June 4, 1783, note 2. 3 See Madison to Randolph, June 10, 1783, note 6. John Montgomery to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir Princeton 30th Sepbr 1783 I was anxous for our Child while in Embrow 1 but since it is Come forth and has got such a numrous tribe of god fathers many of whom I am glad to find are fond of it and altho I Still Love the bratt and will Endeavour to raise it up to maturity but I am So Situated at Present that I Cant give it that attention that I Coud wish and ought to give but it is in good hands. I am glad that Col Hill is so Consc[ientious] in pro viding for its Seport we may Exspect it will thrive when Such gentiemen as Mr. Hill are zealous in promoting its wellfaire. I am pleasd to hear that you have wrote to Mr Bingham. I flatter my Self that he will Suc- sseed in Collecting a Large Sum for the Collegue. I think that it is rather too Soon to aplay to the Counties for Subscriptions. I am Doubt full of thire Sucsseess. It is uncertain when I Shall be in Philada. I am Stuck Down here and my Coleuges Come and go Just as it Suts them. The pale faced faxtions has hit on a lye that I am perswaded will an swer the End in our County together with thire indoustrey in propa gating it. However they may Sucsseed in other Counties the lye is well Calculated to Each the Unthinking pople with us. I most Sincery wish that Copeys were Sent to Diferent parts of the County and a few re marks on it Col Magaw woud Carry them up, the old assemblymans letter I make no Doubt will have a good Effect but unless the writers of the Lying letter are Exsposed and the people undecived that party will Carry their point in Cumberland however I am glad to find that your Spirits are high but notwithstanding nothing ought to be left un done to insure Sucsseess. I am of opinion that we Shoud not aplay to the Mr Penns before the Election and when we do it ought to be as private as Possiable if it was
