736 September ?, 1783 to confer and explain, a formal and authentic answer might reasonably have been expected by Congress and when desired by the Committee should have been understood as desired on their behalf. There is an awkwardness in reasoning upon self evident positions; but as the Council have by their conduct in the first instance and by their message since put forward a doubt upon the subject and made it a point of importance, I shall be excused for examining it a little fur ther. On what could the objection of the Council be founded? They say it had been unusual. Admitting the fact, was the mere novelty of the thing a sufficient reason against it? If there was no apparent in convenience in making a new precedent, if on the contrary there was a manifest convenience in it, ought not such a punctilio to have given way to considerations of utility? Was it derogatory to the dignity of the Council? Surely if they com municate in writing with the executive servants of Congress, even those in subordinate stations, as is the practice of every day, and as is indis pensable to the prosecution of public business, they might at less ex pence of dignity pursue the same mode with a part of that body itself. The distinction taken by the Council in their message to the assem bly, respecting the responsibility of such executive officers, as not ap plicable to a Committee, 4 if it amounts to anything, proves only this— that such officers ought in prudence to take greater precautions for their own justification than a Committee of Congress need to do. It is not to be inferred, if a Committee of Congress acting ministerially think it expedient to use circumspection, that those with whom they are transacting business can with propriety refuse to join with them in that mode which is best adapted to precision and certainty. But indeed the ground of the distinction] 5 is erroneous. A com mittee of Congress act in [a] ministerial capacity and are therefore re- sponsi [ble to] the body to which they belong as well as the servants of that body though in a different manner. If it be said they do not act ministerially but stand in the place of Congress, then the Council upon their own principles ought to have complied with their request. To diminish the exceptionableness of their refusal, it is true, as stated by the Council that though they said they could not condescend to do what the Committee had asked yet they declared themselves to grant an answer in writing, if Congress should request it; and that they proposed that the Committee should put their verbal answer in writ ing to be afterwards perused and examined by them. The answer of the Committee as I doubt not Your Excellency will recollect was—as to the first point that Congress in all probability would not make the request, having determined (as the Council had been already informed) not to resume their deliberations in the city till effectual measures had been taken to suppress the mutiny—and should they assemble would naturally feel a delicacy in requesting what
