September ?, 1783 747 been the first intention of the mutineers in this particular act whether it proceeded from artifice or confusion of ideas, the indignity to Congress was the same. They knew that Congress customarily held their deliberations at the state house; and if it even be admitted that they knew Saturday to be a day of usual recess, which perhaps is not al together probable, when they came to the place they saw and knew Congress to be assembled there. They did not desist in consequence of this; but proceeded to station their guards and execute their pur poses. Members of Congress went out to them—remonstrated with them—represented the danger of their proceedings to themselves and desired them to withdraw, but they persisted until they obtained what they supposed a part of their object. A majority of the same per sons had some days before sent a message almost equally exception able to Congress; and at the time they scarcely spoke of any other body than Congress; who indeed may naturally be supposed to have been the main object of their resentments: for Congress having always appeared to the soldiery to be [the] body who contracted with them and who had broken faith with them—it is not to be supposed they were capable of investigating the remote causes of the failures so as to transfer the odium from Congress to the state. But the substantial thing to be considered in this question is the vio lation of public authority. It cannot be disputed that the mutiny of troops is a violation of that authority to which they owe obedience. This was in the present case aggravated to a high degree of atrocious ness by the gross insult to the government of Pensylvania, in the face of Congress and in defiance of their displeasure. It was further aggra vated by continuing in that condition for a series of time. The reasons have been assigned that made it incumbent upon Congress to interpose; and when they called upon the state of Pensyl vania not only to vindicate its own rights but to support their author- Uy the declining a compliance was a breach of the confederation and of the duty which the state of Pensylvania owed to the United States. The best apology for the government of Pensylvania in this case is that they could not command the services of their citizens. But so improper a disposition in the citizens if admitted must operate as an additional justification to Congress in their removal. The subsequent events justly appreciated illustrate the propriety of their conduct. The mutineers did not make voluntary submissions in consequence of negotiation, persuasion or conviction. They did not submit ’till after Congress had left the city publishing their intentions of coertion, ’till after there had been an actual call upon the Militia— till their leaders and instigators alarmed by the approach of force and the fear of being betrayed by the men fled. They were reduced by co ertion not overcome by mildness. It appears too that while they were professing repentance and a return to their duty, they were tampering
