James Wilson
State: Pennsylvania
Signed Constitution: True
Surviving papers tier: rich
Best public-domain source note: The Works of the Honourable James Wilson (ed. Bird Wilson, 3 vols, PD)



===== James Wilson - The Works of the Honourable James Wilson (ed. Bird Wilson, 3 vols, PD) (vol. 1) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/workshonourable00wilsgoog/workshonourable00wilsgoog_djvu.txt

Google

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project

to make the world's books discoverable online.

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover.

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the

publisher to a library and finally to you.

Usage guidelines

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.
We also ask that you:

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for
personal, non-commercial purposes.

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe.

About Google Book Search

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web

at |http: //books .google .com/I
I Frof . DtwrlM I.

/if

THE /0\'i/

WORKS

of

THE HONOURABLE

JAMES WILSON, L. L. D.

LATE ONE or THE ASSOCIATE JUSTICES OF THE SUPREME

COUET or THE UNITED STATES, ANJ> PROFESSOR OF LAW

IN T»E COLLEGE OF PHILABELPHIA.

iPUaUSHfiD UNDER TH£ DIRECTION

or

BIRD WILSON, ESQUIRE.

Ll|« FVNDAMENTV^M £ST LIBBRTATIS, ^VA PKUIMUR. LEGUM
OMNES SERVJt SUMV», UT LIBERI ESSE POSSIMUS.

C2C.

VOL. L

PfflLADEIaPHIA :

AT THE LORENZO PRESS« PRINTED FOR BRONSON B.ND CHAUNCEY.

"• • •

1804,

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVAIJIA :— TO WIT.

(L. S.) |:> E IT REMEMBERED, That on the fifth day of Julf ,
^ in the twenty ninth year of the independence, of the
United States of America, Bird Wilsok, Esquire, of the said
district) hath deposited in this office the title of a book, the right
whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following, to wit:

" The Works of the Honourable James Wilson, L. L. D.
" late one of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of
^ the United States, and Professor of Law in the College of
" Philadelphia. PuUi^ed under the direction of Bird Wilson,
<< Esquire. Lex fundamentum est libertatis, qua fruimur*
* . << Legum omnes aervi sumna, ut liberi esse po6iim«is."^-

Cic,
In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United States en-
titled '' An act for the encouragement of learning by securing the
copies of maps, charts and books to the authors and proprietors of
such copies during the times therein menUoned ; and also to the act
entitled ^ An act supplementaiy to an act entitled ^^ An act foot iJie
encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, charts,
and books to the authors and proprietors of such copies during the
times therein mentioned,'' and extending the benefits thereof to the
arts of designing, engraving, and etching historical and other
prints."

D. CALDWELL, Clerk of the
District of Pennsylvania.

PREFACE.

w

I

■

)

I

X HE tneomplete state of the lectures on law, notwith-
standing the lapse of several years between the time at
which those now published were delivered, and the death
of the Author, is a circumstance of which the publick
will naturally inquire the cause. The circumstance itself
is certainly much to be lamented ; but its cause presents
a subject of still deeper regret.

The law professorship, in the college of Philadelphia,
was established in the year 1790; and the Author was
appointed the first professor. The extent of his plan of
lectures rendered it impossible for him to go through his
whole subject in one season : three courses were neces-
sary for the purpose. The first course, which was deli-
vered in the winter of 1790^91, consisted of those lectures
I contained in what the Editor has entitled the ^rst part.

The second course, which was, in a great Measure, deli-
vered in the following winter, would have consisted of
the remaining two parts now published. In April, 1792,

IV PREFACE.

the college of Philadelphia and the university of PeDn<«
sylvania were, by an act of assembly, united into one
seminary, imder the latter title. A law professorship
was erected in the new seminary, and the Author again
appointed to fill the chair ; but no lectures were delivered

' after the union. The preceding course had been inter*
rupted and was not completed. The causes of these
circumstances are not withio the Editor's knowledge*

^ He knows, however, that, tluaigh the delivery of the
lectures was discontinued, the Author designed to com-
plete his plan for« publication. From this design his
attention was drawn by another object of more impor-*
tance, in which he was engaged.

In March, 1791, the house of representatives in the
general assembly of Pennsylvania, absolved to App^int^a
person to revise and digest the laws of the common*
wealth'; to ascertain and determine how far any Britiak
statutes extended to it ; and to prepare biUs, cotitaimng
such.alteratlons, additions, and improvemesits asthe-cttde
of law^ and the principles and jTorms of the constitution
then lately adopted might require. The Aathor mis
unanimously appointed for that purpose. The nature of
the plan which he formed in consequence of this reanlu-
tion, win appear from the following letter im the subject,
delivered to the speaker of the faoiue of represenlativet

on ^4th August, 1 r91 .

•i

Sim,

^WHILE I am employed in executing ^e trust com^
mitted to me l^ the house of itepresentatives, it is, I
conceive, my duty, firosn time to time, to infoim then^
through you, of the steps idiich I have tdcen^ and of
those which I mean to take, hi onlerto acoomplkh the
great end which is in contemplation.

Pll£7AC£t

Fram ^the records deposLted in the rolls office; I have . /

X.

taken «ii accousit of all the'lawa made in Pei^n^lvania ^
from its first settlement fill the beginning of -the last ses-
tfon of the legislaiture. Thef are in number one thou-
sand seven hundred «n4 two. Their titles I have en»
tdfed kttb a book, in tiie order, usually chronological, in
whicli thfey are recorded* On some of them, «speciaUj^
those of an early date, I have made and minuted re-
x^arks; and have left ample room fpc more, in the course
of my further investigations..^ I have also r^duceijjtheir
several subjects into an al^nabetical ordelk by jittering
them regularly in a common place book. This jprocess
required time, and care, and a degree of minute drud-
gery ; but it vas absolutely requisite ti^ the correct exe-
cution of the design. How can I make a digest of the
* laws, without having all the laws upon each head in my
view i Thife vi^ew am in the first' instance, be obtained
OAlf by •ranging them in an ^ea&ct commoi> 'place.

But something more must still be done^ To rank,
iAaciH're<^ edition^ the several laws according to their
{ ftesaority or to the order of the alphabet would, by no

means, be correspondent to the enlarged plan signified
by the resolutions of the house. It is obvious, and it
was certainly expected, that, under «ach head, the difi*
ferent regulations, however dispersed, at present, among
numerous laws^ should, in the digest, be coBected in
a natural series, ^nd reduced to a just form* This I
deem an indispensable part of my bosineas.

' fiutthe performance of this indispensable ^ part gives
rioe t9^ a aiew ^question. In what order should the metho-
dbe^ iCoUrctiona be aita^ged I

t '

VI PREFACE*

A chronological order would, from the nature of
those collections, be impracticable : an alphabetical order
would be unnatural' and unsatisfactory. The order of
legitimate system is the only one, whicH remains. This
order, therefore, is necessarily brought into my contem-
plation. My contemplation of it has been attended with
the just degree of diffidence and solicitude. To form
the mass of our laws into a body compacted and well
proportioned, is a task of no common magnitude. Ai^-
duous as it is, the enlarged views of the house of repre-
sentatives Sjt^mulate me to attempt it. In such an at-
tempt it will not be dishonoural^le — even to fail.

Of this system, I have begun to sketch the rough
outlines. In finishing them, and in filling them up, I
mean to avail myself of all the assistance, Vhich can
possibly be derived from every exainple set before me.
But, at the same time, I mean to pay implicit de£erence
to none.

#

The acts of the legislature of Pennsylvania, though
very numerous, <;ompose but a small proportion of her
laws. The common law is a part, and, by far, die most
important part of her system of jurisprudence. Statute
regulations are intended only for those cases, compara-
tively few, in which the common law is defective, or to
which it is inapplicable : to that law, those regulations
are properly to be considered as a supplement. A know-
ledge of that law should, for this reason, precede, or,
at least, accompany the study of those regulations.

** To know what the common law was before the
makhig pf any statute," says my Lord Coke, in his fa-
miliar but expressive manner, ^^ is the very lock and key

PREFACE. VU

*o set open the windows of the statute." » To lay the
statute lawB before one who knows nothing of the com*
monlawt amounts, frequently, to much the same thing as
laying every third or fourth line of a deed before one
?eho has never seen the residue of it, U would, there-
fore, be highly eligible, that, under eacK head of the
statute law, the common law, relating to it, shoidd be
introduced and explained. This would be a useful
commentary on the text of the statute law, and would, at
the same time, form a body of the common law reduced
iato a just and regular system^

With such a commentary, the digest which I shall
have the honour of reporting to the house will be accom«
panied. The constitution of the United States and that
of Pennsylvania, compose the supreme law of the land :
they contain and they suggest many of the fundamental
principles of jurisprudence, and must have a governing
and an extensive influence over almost every other part
of our legal system. They should, therefore, be ex-
plained and understood in the clearest and most distinct
manner, and they should be pursued through their nu-
merous and important, though remote and widely ra-
mified eifects* Hence it is proper, that they also should
be attended with a commentary. These commentaries
will not, however, form apart of my report: they must
stand or fall by their own merit or insignificance.

Another question, of very considerable importance,
has occurred to me : the result of my reflections upon
it, I beg leave to l^y before the house.

a S. Ins. 308.

• • •

vm puefajce.

In what manner skould due digest of the law» of
Pennsylvania be composed I Should it^imbate tht stj^r
of the British acts of parliamemt and those atatutes^,
which have been framed tipon their modeI-M]ir shot^ ii:
be wriittenin th# usualiormsof-'CompoditiiEXti

To professional ge&tleinen it is weH kaowa,- that, ex
England, all bills were anciently *dtawn in the form of
petitions ; that these petitions, with die king's answer^
were entered xsjpKm the pariiameal rcdls ; and that, at die
end of each parliament, they were rediice4 into statutm
by the judges. Hence the form, " may it please your
majesty, that it may be enacted'' and ^^ be it enacted^
&€•" This form, like many otjiers, has been continued in
England lon^ after the reason of it has ceased. .Thia
form, like many .others, has been introduced into the co*
lonies, and, among the rest, kito Pennsylvania, where
d&e reascoi of it never existed^ Thus . almost ertryr
sentence in our acts of assembly la^gins with a ^ be ji
enacted."

This form, though without :fou!Qdati<m in Pennsylva*'
Bta, is not, however, without its ilKonneniences. To*
introduce every sentence utnder ths gbvemment of a
verb, gives a stifihess — to introduee every setttence un-
der the government of th^ same verb^ gives a mofKitony
as well as stiffness, to the composition. To a;void the
frequent reiteration of those blemishes, the sentences,
are lengthened. By being lengthened, they are crowded
with multifarious, sometimes with heterogeneoua and
disjointed, circumstances and materiolB. * Hoace the ob-
scure, and confused, and embarrassed periods of a mile^
with which the statute books are loaded and disgraced.

V

PftfifACK. IX

But ttmj^icity fud plainness and prccidon should
mark the textcire of a law* It claims the obedience'^
it should be level to the understanding of alL

By the first asBembly of Pennsylvania an act was made
'^ for teaching the laws in the schools.^' ^ This noble
re^^ation is coun^tenanced by the authority and example
of the most enlightened nations and men* Cicero^ in*
ferois us, that when be was a boy, the laws of the twelve
tables. w«re learned ** ut necessarium carmen/' as a piece
of composition at once necessary and entertaining. The
celebrated legislator of the Cretans used all the precau-
tions^ wJiich human prudence could suggest, to inspire
the youth with the greatest ' respect and attachment to
the maxims and customs of the state. This was what
Plato found most admirable in die laws of Minos,

If youth should be educated in the knowledge and
love of the laws ; it follows, that the laws should be
pit>per objedls of their attachment, and proper subjects
of their study. Can this be said concerning a statute
book drawn up in the usual style and form ? Would any
one select such a composition to form the taste of his
son, or to inspire him with a relish for literary accom-
plishments ? It has been remarked, wi^h truth as well
as wit, that one of the most irksome penalties, which
could be inflicted by an act of pariiament, would be,
to compel the culprit to read the statutes at large from
tfie beginning to the end.

But the knowledge of the laws, useful to youth, is
incumbent on those of riper years.

t»R.O.ftojpLA.p.93. «i)e]eK.LS.c.dd.

VOL. X. A

X PREFACE*

From the manner, in which other law books, as well as
stattite laws, are usually written, it may be supposed that
law is, in its nature, unsusceptible of the same simplicity
and clearness as the other sciences. It is high time that
law should be rescued from this injurious imputation.
Like the other sciences, it should now enjoy the advan-
tages of light, which have resulted from the resurrection
of letters ; for, like the other sciences, it has Suffered
extremely from the thick veil of mystei^ spread over it
in the dark and scholastick ages.

•

Both the divinity and law of those times, says Sir
William Blackstone, a were frittered into logical dis-
tinctions, and drawn out into metaphysicstl subtilties,
with a skiU most amazingly artificial. Law in particular,
which (being intended for universal reception) ought to
be a plain rule of action, became a science of the greatest
intricacy; especially when blend/sd with the new and
oppressive refinements ingrafted upon feodal property :
which refinements were, from time to time, gi*adually
introduced by the Norman practitioners, with a view to'
supersede (as they did in a great measure) the more
homely, but the more free and intelligible, maxims of
distributive justice among the Saxons.

«

As were the divinity and the law, such likewise was
the philosophy of the schools during many ages of dark-
ness and barbarism. It was fruitful of words, but barren
of works, and admirably contrived for drawing a veil
over human ignorance, and putting a stop to the progress
of knowledge. « But at last the light began to dawn.
It has dawned, however, much slower upon the law,

BL Com. 410. S. Id. 58. « Reid. Ess. Int. 13r.

PREFACE. xi

than upon religion and philosophy. ^ The laws," says the
celebrated Beecaria, f *^ are always several ages behind
the acti;^ improvement of the nation which they govjcm."
If this observation is true, and I believe it to be true,
"with regard to law in general ; it is peculiarly true, and
its truth is of peculiar impovtance, with regard to cri-
minal law in particular. It is the observation of Sir
'William Blackstone, that, in every country of Europe,
the criminal is more rude and imperfect than the civil
law. Uxffortunate it is that this should be the case.
For on the. exceUence of the criminal law the liberty and
happiness of the citizens chiefly depend.

We are told by Montesquieu, that the knowledge,
with regard to the surest rules, observed in criminal
judgments, is more interesting to mankind than any other
thing in the universe. We are told by him further,
that liberty can be founded only on the practice of this
knowledge* But how can this knowledge be acquired —
how can it become the foundation of practice, if the laws,
and particularly the criminal lar/s, are written in a mani
ner in which they cannot be clearly known or understood.

Deeply penetrated with the truth and the force of
these remarks, which are supported by the most respec-
tal^le audiorities, I shall not jusdy incur the censure of
innovation, if I express my opinion, that the law should
be written in the same manner, which we use when
we write on other subjects, or other sciences. This
manner has been already adopted, with success, in the
Constituticm of the United States, and in that of Penn-
sylvania.

f C. 29.

\
\

As, however^ the observations, wbiteh I huve mftde
sad qaoted, bear particularly upon the criminal code $
I propose to make, in that code, the first ezperim^it of
tkeir justness and efficacy.

- The criminal law, though the most impcHtant, is hf
far the least voluminous part of the fystem i and it can
be easily formed into a separate report. This I mean to
do. By doing so, I shall have a fair, opportunity of
cxhibitii^ a specimen of. the manner and the merits both
of my plan and of its execution.

To the speaker of the Hoase of
Representatives.

In the execution of this plan, the Author made verjr
considerable progress. It had been undertaken, how-
ever, under the authority of only one of the hoiises of the
assembly, without the sanction of the other i and, in the
course of its execution, it was found, that the want of
legislative sanction, and of a provision for making pecu*-
ntary compensation to persons necessarily etnployedaa
assistants in a work of so much labour and importmce,
joined with the difficulty of obtaining many useful and
necessary books connected with the sub^eet of the worit,
*had retarded its progress, and thrown conaidend)le impe-
diments in the way of its completion* An attempt was
made to remove these obstacles ; and a bill was passed
for that purpose by the house of representatives ; but it
was unfortunately negatived by the senate. The design
of framing a digest under the authority of the legislature
was, of course, relinquished. But the Author still con-
templated the execution of a similar design, as a private
work ; supported only by his own name \ and it occupied,
for a long time, his assiduous attention. He had, in a

PRE7ACE. Siii

fgK^tA degree, prepired the matetials ; but did boI lite to
^anwDge them, and compote the contemplated digeet»

From these causes^ the lectures continued in the staite
in which they now appear. The Editor has not thou^^
iumself at liberty to make an^ alterations in the language
of the Author :. the lecturing'style is^ therefore, retained.
He- has, however, been cMiged to adopt a division not,
perhaps, siricdy in unison with that style, but the cHdy
one which was in his power— that into parts and chapters,
according to the subjects. They were never divided by
the Author mto distinct lectures ; as, according to his
mode of delivering them, they were frequently attended
with recapitulations, and often embraced parts of his
observations on different subjects.

Of the other paAs of the contents of these volumes,
the tracts oa the legislative authority of parliament over
the colonies, smd on the Baitk of North America, were
before published ; as were also the speech in convention
on 2d(h November, 1787, and the oration on 4th July,
1788. • These, with the other speeches now puUished,
appear to have been selected for publication by the Author
himself. Hi^ charges to grand juries in the federal courts,
the ^]&&or has not thought it proper to insert ; because,
as they related generally to the history, powers, and duties
of juries, the contents of them are to be found in the lec-
tures. One, however, he has selected and inserted, be«
cause it contains a concise and handsome view of the
criminal law of the United States, nearly as it stands at
present, and many important observationsxnot to be found

in the other works.

« •

Of the value and merit of these volumes, the Editor
will say nothing. He leaves that subject to the judgment
PKEFACr.

cfHunt who can estmiate them with greater unpartialicy*
In some parts, peAaps^ they want diat degree of pnKah^
which die £udier attention and correcdons of die Audior
Slight have bestowed on diem; and icpedtHMis, iriiich
somedmesoceor,and which, in lectures delirered, are not
onty excosable but pn^r, would probably not have been
met widi, had they been corrected by himself for the
press. On the whole, however, the Editor trusto, that
they win not be thought unworthy, either in style or
sentiment, of the reputation of their AuthcM^.

!

CONTENTS .

■ ' I

\ •

or TBI

FIRST VOLUME.

LECTURES ON LAW.

PART I.
CHAPTER I.

PACK.

'Of the study of the law in the United State% 3

CHAPTER n.
Of the general principles of law and obligation, 5S

CHAPTER m.

Of the law of nature, 107

CHAPTER IV.
Of the law of natiocM, 145

CHAPTER V.
Of municipal law, 179

CHAPTER VL
Of man, as an individual, 229

CHAPTER VH
Of man, as a member of soqietjr, 283

CHAPTER Vm.
Of man, as a member of a confederation, 319

XVI

« CONTENTS or THE riRST VOLUMB«

CHAPTER IX.
Of many at a member of the grSsat commonwealth of natioiiSi 359

CHAPTER X.
Ofgovernmenty ' 38S

CHAPTER XL

Compariaoiiof the ooastitutum of tfie United Skates, with tfiat

of Greitt Britain)
LECTURES ON LAW,

PELIYERED IN THE

VOLLEGE OF PHILADELPHIA,

IK THE YEABS ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETT,
AND ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY ONE.

VOL. I.

PART I.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY LECTURE.

OP THE STUDY OJ THE LAW IN THE UNITED STATES.

Ladies and gentlxmek,

X HOUGH I am not unaccustomed to speak in publick,
yet, on this occasion, I rise with much diffidence to
address you. The character, in which I appear, is both
important and new. Anxiety and selfdistrust are natu-
ral on my first appearance. These feelings are greatly
heightened by another consideration, which operates
vrith peculiar force. I never before had the honour of
addressing a fair audience. Anxiety and selfdistrust,
in an uncommon degree, are natural,' when, for the first
time, I address a fair audience so brilliant as this is.
There is one encouraging reflection, however, which
greatly supports me. The whole of my very respectable
audience is as much distinguished by its politeness, %i a
part of it is distinguished by its brilliancy. From xfyfC^

4 LECTURES ON LAW.

politeness, I shall receive — what I feel I need-— 4Ui
uncommon degree of generous indulgence.

It is the remark of an admired historian, that the
high character, which the Grecian commonwealths long
possessed among nations, should not be ascribed solely
to their excellence in science and in government.' With
regard to these, other nations, he thinks, and particu-
larly that of which he was writing the history, were
entitled to a reputation, not less exalted and illustrious.
But the opinion, he says, of the superiour endowments
and achievements of the tjrrecians has arisen, in aconsider^
able degree, from their peculiar felicity in haying. their
virtues transmitted to posterity by writers, who excelled
those of every other country in abilities and elegance.

Alexander, when master of the world, envied the
good fortune of Achilles, who had a Homer to celebrate
his deeds.

The observation, which was applied to Rome by
Sallust, and the force of which appears so strongly from
the feelings of Alexander, permit me to apply, for I
can apply it with equal propriety, to the States of
America.

They have not, it is true, been long or much known
upon the great theatre of nations : their immature age
has not hitherto furnished them with many occasions of
extending their renown to the distant quarters of the
globe. But, in real worth and excellence, I boldly ven-
ture to compare theni with the most illustrious common*
wealths, which adorn the records of fame. When some
future Xenophon or Thucydides shall arise to do justice

LECTURES ON LAW.

to their virUies and their actions ; the glory of America
will rival — it will outshine the glory of Greece.

Were I called upon for my reasons why I deem so
highly of the American character, I would assign them
in a very. few words — ^That character has been eminently
distinguished by the love of liberty, and the love of law.

I rejoice in my appointment to this chair, because it
g^ives me the best opportunities to discover, to study,
to develop, and to communicate many striking instances,
hitherto little known, on which this distinguished charac<»
ter is founded.

In free countries— in free countries, especially, that
boast the blessing of a common law", springing warm and
spontaneous from the manners of the people — Law should
be studied and taught as a historical science.

The eloquent Rousseau complains, that the origin of
nations is much concealed by the darkness or the di^tamcc
of anUquity.

In many parts of the world, the fact may be as he
represents it; and yet his complaint may be without
foundation : for, in many parts of the world, the origin
of nations ought to be buried in oblivion. To succeed-
ing ages, the knowledge of it would convey neither
pleasure nor instruction.

With regard to the States of America, I am happy
in saying, that a complaint, concerning the uncertainty of
their first settlements cannot be made with propriety or
truth; though I must add,; that, if it could be made

LECTURES ON LAW.

with propriety or truth, it would be a Mibject of the
deepest regret.

If the just and genuine principles of society can dif-
fuse a lustre round die establishment of nations ; that
of the States of America is^ indeed illustrious. Fierce
oppression, rattling, in her left hand, the chains of tyran-
ny; and brandishing, in her right hand, the torch of
persecution, drove our predecessors from the coasts
of Europe : liberty, benevolent and serene, pointing to
a cornucopia on one side, and to a branch of olive on the
other, invited and conducted them to the American
chores.

In discharging the duties of this office, I shall have
the pleasure of presenting to my hearers what, as to the
nations in the Transatlantxck world, must be searched
for in vain — an original compact of a society, on its first
arrival in this section of the globe. How the lawyers, and
statesmen, and antiquarians, and philosophers, of Europe
would exuk, on discovering a similar monument of the
Athenian commonwealth ! and yet, perhaps, the histo-
rical monuments of the states of America are not,
intrinsically, less important, or less worthy of attention^
than the historical monuments of the states of Greece.
The latter, mdeed, are gilded with the gay decorations
of fable and mythology ; but the former are clothed in
Ae neater and more simple garb of freedom and truth.

The doctrine of toleration in matters of religion,
reasonable though it certainly is, has not been long^
known or acknowledged. For its reception and esta-
blishment, where it has been received and established^
the world has ^ been thought to owe much to the inesti-

LECTURES ON LAW. ^ 7

mable writings of the celebrated Locke. To the ines*
timable writings of that justly celebrated man, let the
tribute of applause be plenteously paid: but while im-
mortal honours are bestowed on the name and character
of Locke; why should an ungracious silence be ob-
served, with regard to the name and character of
Calvert ?

Let it be known, that, before the doctrine of tolera-
tion was published in Europe, the practice of it was
established in America. A law in favour of religious
freedom was passed in Maryland, as early as the year
one thousand six hundred and forty nine.

When my Lord Baltimore wa3 afterwards urged —
not by the spirit of freedom — ^to consent that this law
should be repealed ; with the enlightened principles of a
'man and a christian, he had the fortitude to declare,
that he never would assent to the repeal of a law, which
protected the natural rights of men, by ensuring to every
one freedom of action and thought.

Indeed, the character of this excellent man has been
too little known. He was truly the father of his coun-
itry. To the legislature of Maryland he often recom-
mended a maxim, which deserves to be written in letters
of gold : " By concord a small colony may grow into a
g]Qeat and renowned nation; but, by dissensions, mighty
and gl^i^Dus kingdoms have declined and fallen ^ into
nothing.'^

eimSi^ttite^ ta that of Calvert, has been the fate pf many
other valuable characters in America^ They have been

* ChaL 363.

8 LECTURES ON LAW.

too little known. To those ar6und them, their modest
merits have been too familiar, perhaps too uniform, to
attract particular and distinguished attention: by those
at a distance, the mild and peaceful voice of their virtue
has not been heard. But to their memories, justice
should be done, as far as it can be done, by a just and
grateful country.

■^ In the European temple of fame, William Penh is
placed by the side of Lycurgus. Will America refuse
a temple to her patriots and her heroes? No; she will
not. The glorious dome already rises. Its architecture
is of the neatest and chastest order: its dimensions are
spacious: its proportions are elegant and correct. In its
front a number of niches are formed. In some of them
statues are placed. On the left hand of the portal, are
the names and figures of Warren, Montgomery, Mer*
cer. On the right hand, are the names and figures of
Calvert, Penn, Franklin. In the middle, is a niche of
larger size, and decorated with peculiar ornaments. On
the left side of it, are sculptured the trophies of war :
on the right, the more precious emblems ef peace.
Above it, is represented the rising glory of the United
States. It is without a statue and without a name.
Beneath it, in letters very legible, are these words^—
" FOR THE MOST WORTHY." By the enrq)tured
voice of grateful America — ^with the consenting plaudits
, of an admiring world, the designation is unanimously
^ made. Late— very late — ^may the niche be filled. ^

But while we perform the pleasing duties of grati-
tude, let not other duties be disregarded. Illustrious

b General Washington, then President of the United States,
was present when this lecture was deliyered. JEd.

LECTURES ON LAW. 9

examples are displayed to our view, that we may imi-
tate as well as admire. Before we can be distinguished
by the same honours, we must be distinguished by the
same virtues.

What are those virtues? They are chiefly the same
Tirtues, which we have already seen to be descriptive of
the American character — the love of liberty, and the
love of law. But law and liberty cannot rationally be-
come the objects of our love, unless they first become
the objects of our knowledge. The same course of
3tudy, properly directed, will lead us to the knowledge
of both. Indeed, neither of them can be known, be-
cause, neither of them can exist, without the other.
Without liberty, law loses its nature and its name, and
becomes oppression. Without law, liberty also loses its
nature and its nam^, and becomes licentiousness. In
denominating, therefore, that science, by which the
knowledge of both is acquired, it is unnecessary to pr&-
serve, ha terms, the distinction between them. That
scien^may be named, as it has been named, the s/cienc0
of law.

The science of law should, in. some measure, and in
some degree, be the study of every free citizen, and of
every free man. Every free citizen and every free man
has duties to perform and rights to claim. Unless, in
some measure, and in some degree, he knows those du-
ties and those rights, he can never act a just and an in-
dependent part.

Hapjuly, the general and most important principles
of law are not removed to a very great distance from
common apprehension. It has been said of religion,

l"OL, I. c

10 • LECTURES ON LAW.

that though the elephant may swim, yet the lamb may
wade in it. Concerning law, the same observation may
be made.

The home navigation, carried on along the shores, is
more necessary, and more useful too, than that, which is
pursued through the deep and expanded ocean. A man
may be a most excellent coaster, though he possess not
the nautical accomplishments and experience of a Cook.

As a science, the law is far from being so disagreea-
ble or so perplexed a study, as it is frequently supposed
to be. Some, indeed, involve themselves in a thick
mist of terms of art; and use a language unknown to
all, tut those of the profession. By such, the know-
ledge of the law, like the mysteries of some ancient di-
vinity, is confined to its initiated votaries; as if aD
others were in duty bound, blindly and implicitly to obey.
But this ought not to be the case. The knowledge of
those rational principles on which the law is founded'^
ought, especially in a free government, to be diffused
over the whole community.

In a free country, every citizen forms a part of the
sovereign power: he possesses a vote, or takes a stiB
more active part in the business of the commonwealth.
The right and the duty of giving that vote, the right
and the duty of taking that share, are necessarily attend-
ed with t?ie duty of making that business the object of
his study and inquiry.

In the United States, every citizen is frequently call-
ed upon to act in this great publick character. He elects
the legislative, and he takes a personal share iix the

LECTl/KES OK LAW. 11

executive and judicial departments of the nation. It
is true, that a man, who wishes to be right, will, with
the official assistance afforded him, be seldom under
the necessity of being; wrong: but it is equally true,
and it ought not to be concealed, that the publick duties
and the publick rights of every citizen of the United-
Statee loudly demand from him all the time, which he
can prudiendy spare, and all the means which he pan
prudently employ, in order to learn that part, which it is
incumbent on him to act.

On the publick mind, one great truth can never be too
deeply impressed — ^that the weight of the government
of the United States, and of each state composing the
union^ rejsts on the -shoulders of the people.

I express not this sentiment now, as I have never
expressed it heretofore, with a view to flatter: I express
it .now, as I have always expressed it heretofore, with a
far other and higher aim^^with :an aim to excite the
people to acquire, by vigorous and manly exercise, a
degree of strength sufficient to support the weighty
burthen, which is laid upon them — ^with an aim to con-
vince them, that their duties rise in strict proportion to
their rights ; and that few are able to trace or to estimate
the great danger, in a free government, when the rights
of the people are unexercised, and the still greater
danger, .when the rights of the people are ill exercised.

At a general election, too few attend to the important
consequences of voting or not voting ; and to the conse-
quences, still more important, of voting right or voting
wrongiK

Jl^ LECTURES OH LAW.

The rights and the duties of jurors, in the United
States, are great and extensive. No punishment can be
inflicted without the intervention 'of one— in much the
greater number of cases, without the intervention of more
than one jury. Is it not of immense consequence to the
publick, that those, who have committed crimes, should
not escape with impunity ? Is it liot of immense conse-
quence to individuals, that all, except those who have
committed crimes, should be secure from the punishment
denounced against their commission ? Is it not, then, of
immense consequence to both, that jurors should possess
the spirit of just discernment, to discriminate between the
innocent and the guilty ? This spirit of just discernment .
requires knowledge of, at least, the general principles of
the law, as well as knowledge of 1the minute particulars
concerning the facts.

It is true, that, in matters of law, the jurors are entitled
to the assistance of the judges ; but it is also true, that,
after they receive it, they have the right of judging for
themselves : and is there not to this right the great
corresponding duty of judging /^rc/^er/t/ ?

Surely, therefore, tRose who discharge the important
and, let me add, the dignified functions of jurors, shpuld
acquire, as far as they possibly can acquire, a knowledge
of the laws of their country : for, let me add further, the
dignity, though not the importance of their functions,
will greatly depend on the abilities, with which they
discharge them*

But in the administration of justice*— that part of
government, which comes home most intimately to the
business and the bosoms of men — there are judges 9» well

LECTURES ON LAlif. 13

sis jurors ; those, whose peculiar province it is to answer
questions of law, as well as those, whose peculiar province
it is to answer questions of fact.

In many courts— in many respectable courts within
the United States, the judges are not, and, for a long
time, cannot be gentlemen of professional acquirements.
They may, however, fill their offices usefully and ho*
nourably, the want of professional acquirements notwith-
standing. But can they do this, without a reasonable
degree of acquaintance with the law?

We have already seen, that, in questions of law, the
jurors are entitled to the assistance of the judges: but
can the judges give assistance, without knowing what
answers to make to the questions which the jury may
propose? can those direct others, who themselves know
not the road ?

Unquestionably, then, those who fill, and those who
expect to fill the offices of judges in courts, not, indeed,
supreme, but rising in importance and in dignity above
the appellation of inferiour, ought to make the strongest
efforts in order to obtain a respectable degree of know-
ledge in the law.

Let me ascend to a station more elevated still. In
the United States, the doors of publick honours and pub-
lick offices are, on the broad principles of equal liberty,
thrown open to all. A laudable emulation, an emulation
that ought to be encouraged in a free government, may
prompt a man to legislate as well as to decide for his fel*
low cfdzens — ^to legislate, not merely for a single State,
but for the most august Union Aat has yet been formed
on the face of the globe.

]4> LJCCTURES OW LAW.

Should not he, who is to supply the deficiencies of
the existing law, know when the existing law is defec-
tive? Should not he, who is to introduce alterations into
the existing law, know in what instances the existing
law ought to be altered?

The first and governing maxim in the interpretation
of a statute is, to discover ^the meaning of those, who
made it. The first rule, subservient to the principle of
tbe governing maxim, is, to discover what the law was^
Before the statute was made. The inference, nece$jsarily
resulting from the joint operation of the maxim and the
rule, is this, that in explaining a statute, Jihe judges
ought to take it for granted, that, those, who made it,r
knew the antecedent law. This certainly im{dies, that
a; competent knowledge of,, at least, the general principles
of law,, is of indispensable necessity to those, yrho un^^
diertake the transcendent office of legislation.

I say, a knowledge of the. general principles of law :
ton though an accurate,, a minute, and an extensive
knowledge of its practice and particular rules be highly
useful;, yet I cannot conceive it to be absolutely requisite
to the able discharge of a legislative trust*

Upon this distinction — and it is an important one — I
cannaty perhaps, explain myself better, than by deliver-
mg, the sentiments, which were entertained, some cen-
isuries ago,, by a very learned and able judge — I mean
the Lord Chancellor Fortescue.

\

In his excellent book, which he wrote in praise of
thie l^ws of England, he uses a number of arguments
with, his pupil, the prince of Wales, to excite }^m to

LECTURES ON LAW, 15

the Study X)f the law. Of these arguments the prince
feels and acknowledges the full force. " But," says he,
" there is one thing, which agitates my mind in such a
manner, that, like a vessel tossed in the tumultuous
ocean, I know not how to direct my course : it ia, that
when I recollect the number of years, which the stu-
dents of the law employ, before they acquire a sufficient
degree of knowledge, I am apprehensive lest, in studies
of this nature, I should consume the whole of my
youth."

To relieve his pupil from this anxiety, the chancellor
cites a passage from the writings of Aristotle, to the
following purpose : " We are then supposed to know a
thing, when we apprehend its causes and its principles^
as high as its original elements."

This maxim the chancellor illustrates, by a reference
to several of the sciences ; and then draws this generd
conclusion. " Whoever knows the principles and ele-
ments of any science, knows the science itself — gene-
rally, at least, though not completely." This conclu-
sion he then applies to the science of law. " In the
same manner, when you shall become acquainted with
the principles and the elements of law, you may be de-
nominated a lawyer. It will not be necessary for you^
at a great expense of your time, to scrutinize curious
and intricate points of discussion. I know the quick-
ness of your apprehension, and the strength of your
genii^s. Though the legal kinowledge accumulated in a
series of twenty years is not more than sufficient to qua-
lify one for being a judge ; yet, in one year, you will be
able to acquire a degree of it sufficient for you ; with*

16 LECTURES ON LAW.

out, even in that year, neglecting your oAer studies
and improvements."^

That a law education is necessary for gentlemen in*
tended for the profession of the law, it would be as ri-
diculous to prove as to deny. In all other countries,
publick institutions bear a standing testimony to this
truth. Ought this to be the only country without them?
Justinian, who did so much for the Roman law, was, as
might have been expected, unbommonly attentive to
form and establish a proper plan for studying it. All
the modem nations of Europe have admitted the pro-
fession of their municipal jurisprudence, into their uni-
versities and other seminaries of liberal education.

In England, numerous and ample provisions have
been made for this purpose. For young gentlemen,
there are eight houses of chancery, where they learn
the first elements of law. For those more advanced in
their studies, there are four inns of court. " All these
together," says my Lord Coke,* with conscious profes-
sional pride, "compose the most illustrious university in
the world, for the profession of law." Here lectures have
been read, exercises have been performed, and degrees
in the common law have been conferred, in the same
manner as degrees in the civil and canon law, in other
universities.

Besides all the6e, the Vinerian professorship of law
has, not many years ago, been established in the uni-
versity of Oxford. Of this professorship, the celebra-
ted Sir William Blackstone was the first, who filled the

chair.

#

Fort de Laud. c. 7. 8. ^3 Rep. Pref. 30.

LECTURES OK LAW. if

A queatioa deeply intereBting to the American States
now presents itself Should the elements of a law edu-
cation, particularly as it respects publick law, be drawn
entirely from another country-*-or should they be drawn,
in part, at least, from the constitution's and gavetlimenta
asidlaws of the United States, and of the several States
eomposing the Union ?

The subject, to one standing where I stand, is not
without its delicacy : let me, however, treat it with the
decent but firm freedom, which befits an independent
citizen, and a professor in independent states*

Surely I am justified in saying, that the principles of
the constitutions and governments and laws of the Uni«
ted States, and the republicks, of which they are formed,
are materially different from the principles of the con-
stitution and government and laws of England; for that
is the only country, from the principles of whose con-
stitution and government and laws, it will be cpntendedy
that the elements of a law education ought to be drawn.
I presume to go further: the principles of our constitu-
tions and governments and laws are materially better
than the principles of the constitution and government
and laws of England.

Permit me to mention one great principle, the vital
principle I may well call it, which diffuses animation and
vigour through all the others. The principle I mean is
this, that the supreme or sovereign power of the society
resides in the citizens at large; and that, therefore,
they always retain the right of abolishing, altering, or
amending their constitution, at whatever time, and in
whatever mani^r, they shall deem it expedient.

VOL. I. D

IS LECTU&ES OH ^AWr

By Sir William Blackstone, from wlioso Commenta-
ries, a performance in many respects highly valuable,* the
elements of a foreign law education would probably h^
borrowed — ^by Sir William Blackstone^. this great and
fundamental principle is treated as a political chiflftera,
existing only in the minds of some theorists ; but, .in
practice, inconsbtent with the dispensation of any go«>
vemment upon earth* Let us hear his own words.

^ It must be owned that Mr. Locke and other theo^
retical writers have held, that ^* there remains still in-^
herent in the people, a supreme power to alter the legis-
lative, when they find the legislative act contrary to the
trust reposed in them; ibr when such trust is abused, it
is thereby forfeited, and devolves to those, who gave it.^^
^ But, however just this conclusion may be in theory,
we cannot admit it, nor argue from it, under any dis-^
pensation of government, at present actually existing.
For this devolution of power to the people at large, in-
cludes a dissolution of the whole form of government
estaUished by that pecqile ; reduces all the members to
their original state of equality ; and, by annihilating the
sovereign power, repeals all positive laws whatsoever
before enacted. No human laws will therefore suppose
a case, which at once must destroy all law, and compel
men to build afresh upon a new foundation ^ nor will
diey make provision for so desperate an event, as must
render all legal provisions ineffectual/^

And yet, even in England, there have been revolu*
tions of government: there has been one within very
little more than, a century ago. The learned Author of

« 1 BL Com. 161. 163.

LECTURES OK LAW- 19

V

the Commentaries admits the fact ; but denies it to be
tt gncmnd on which any constitutional principle can be
€atafati^hedr

If the same precise ^* conjunction of circumstances'^
should happen a second time ; the revolution of one
thousand six hundred and eighty eig^t would form a
precedent : but were only one or two of the circum-*
stances, forming that conjunction, to happen again ;
'* the precedent would fail us," ^

The three circumstances, which formed that conjunc*
tion, were these : 1. An endeavour to subvert the consti*
tiition, by breaking the original contract between the
king and people. 2. Violation of the fundamental laws.
3, Withdrawing out of the kingdom.

Now, on this state of things, let us make a supposi*
tion-— 4iot a very foreign one*— -and see the consequences,
which would unquestionably follow from the principles
of Sir William Blackstone. Let us suppose, that, on
some occasion, a prince should form a conjunction of
only two of the circumstances ; for instance, that he
should only violate the fundamental laws, and endeavour
to subvert the constitution : let us suppose, that, instead
of completing the conjunction, by withdrawing out of
his government, he should only employ some forty or
fifty thousand troops to give full efficacy to the two first
circumstances : let us su{>pose all this—- and it is surely
not unnatural to suppose, that a prince, who shall form
the two first parts of the conjunction, will not, like James
the second, run away from the execution of them— let

flBl.Com*3«S.

US, I say, suppose all this ; and what, o& the iipn^i|d#s
of Sir William Blackstone, would be the uiid«Eiiabl«
conaequence ? In the language of the Commenlaries,
our precedent would fail us."

((

But we have thought, and we have acted upon revo-
lution principles, without (Bering them up as sacri*
fices at the shrink of revolution precedents.

Why should we not teach our children thode princi*
pies, upon which we ourselves have thought and acted?
Ought we to instil into their tender minds a theory,
especially if unfounded, wliich is contradictory to our
own practice, built on the most solid foundation I Why
should we reduce them to the cruel dilemma of con-
demning, either thpse principles which they, have be^i
taught to believe, or those persons whom they have been
taught to revere ?

It is true, that the learned Author of the Coja^nneiijla^
ries concludes this very passage, by telling us, that
^^ there are inherent, though latent powers of society,
which no climate, no time, no constitution, no c^^tract
can ever destroy or diminish." But what does this
prove ? not that revolution principles are,, in bis opiinion,
recognized by the English constitution; but that the
English constitution, whet;her considered as a law, or
as a conU*a^t, cannot destrpy or diminish those prin«
C]{des.

It is the opinion of many^, that the revolution of one
thousand six hundred and eighty eight did more than
set a mere precedent, even in England. But be that
as it may: a revolution prinpii^e certainly is, and cer-

I.BCITURES ON LAW. 31

tamly ahmld be taught as a principle of the constitution
of the United Statet, and of every State in the Union.

This revolution principle— that, the sovereign power
residing in the people, they may change their constitu-
^m and goveniment whenever they please— -is not a
princd]^ <^ discord, rancour, or war : it is a principle
of meltciration, contentment, and peace. It is a prin*
ciple not recommended merely by a flattering theory :
it is a principle recommended by happy experience. To
the testimony of Pennsylvania— -to the testimony^of the
United States I appeal for the truth of what I say.

In the course of these lectures, my duty will oblige
me to notice some other important principles, very par-
ticularly his definition and explanation of law itself, in
vrhteh vs^ sentiments differ from those of the respecta*
hh Author of the Commentaries. It already appears,
that, with regard to the very first principles of govem-
vgn&ekty we set out from different points of departure.

As I have mentioned Sir William Blackstone, let
me speak of htm explicitly as it becomes me. I cannot
consider him as a zealous friend of republicanism. One
af his survivers or suceessours in office has character-
ized him by the appellation of an antirepublican lawyer.
On the sul^ect of goveniment, I think I can plainly^
discover his jealousies and his attachments.^

For his jiedousies, an easy and natural account mif
be giveia. In England, only one specimen of a com->
monweai^i has be«n exhibited to publick examina-
tion; and that specimen was, indeed, an unfavoura-
ble one. On trial, it was found to be unsound and

22 LECTURES ON LAW.

unsatisfactory. ^ It is not very surprising thiit an English
lawyer, with an example so inauspicious before fai9'
eyes, should feel a degree of aversion, latent, yet Btrongy
to a republican government.

An account, perhaps equally natural and easy, may
be given for his attachments. With all reigning fami.
lies, I believe, it is a settled maxim, that every revolu-
tion in government is unjustifiable, except the single one,
which conducted them to the throne. The maxims of
the court have always their diffusive influence. That
influence, in favour of one species of government, might
steal imperceptibly upon a mind, already jealous of
another species, viewed as its rival, and as itsr enemy.

But, with all his prejudices concerning government,
I have the pleasure of beholding him, in one conspicu-
ous aspect, as a friend to the rights of men. To those
rights, the author of the beautiful and animated dissei^
tations concerning juries could not be cold or insen-
sible.

As author of the Commentaries, he possessed tmcon^*'
mon merit. Hi^ manner is clear and methodieal; his
sentiments — I speak of them generally— -are judiciou^r
and solid ; his language is elegant and pure. In publick
kw, however, he should be consulted with a cautious
prudence. But, even in publick law, his principles,
when they are not proper objects of imitation, will fur-
msh excellent materials of contrast. On every account,,
therefore, he should be read and studied. He deserves
to be much admired ; but he ought not to be teiplieitly
followed.

\

LECTURES ON LAW. 24

Tbi9 k»t admonitory rem^k should not be confined
to Sir William Blackstone : it ought to be extended to
all political writers-^must I say I — almost without excep-'
tion. This seems a severe sentence : but, if it is just^
it must be pronounced. The cause of liberty, the rights
of men require, that, in a subject essential to that
cause and to those rights, errour should be exposed, in
order to be avoided.

The foundations of political truth have been laid but
lately: the genuine science of government, to no human
science inferiour in importance, is, indeed, but in its
Infancy : and the reason of this can be easily assigned.
In the whole annals of the Transadantick world, it will
be difficult to point out a single, instance of its legitimate
institution : I will go further, and say, that, among all
the political writers of th/e Transatlantick world, it will
be difficult to point out a single model of its unbiassed
theory.

The celebrated Grotius introduces what he says con-
cemiiig the interesting doctrine of sovereignty, with the
following information. ^^ Learned men of our ag^,
each of them handling the argument, rather according
to the present interest of the affiEiirs of his country, than
according to truth, have greatly perplexed that, which,
of itself, vts^ not very clear." ^ In this, the learned men
of every other age have resembled those of the age of
Grotius.

Indeed, it is astonishing, in what intricate mazes
politicians and philosophers have bewildered themselves

s Gra b. i, c 3. s. 5.

i4 IviGfVRBS dir 1/AW.

iqK>n this subject.' Systems have be^n lormed upom
systems, all -fleeting) because -all unfounded. Sofvereiguijr
h^s sometimes been viewed as a sta*^ which ekidad our
investigation by its immeasurable height : sometimes it
has been considered as a sun, which could not be distinctly
seen by reason of its insufferable splendour.

In Egypt, the Nile is an object troly striking atid
grand* Its waters, rising to a certain height, and spread-
ing to a certain distance, are the cause of fertili^ and
plenty : swelling higher, and extending farther, they
produce devastation and famine; This stupendous stream,
at some t|mes so beneficial, at odier times so destfttetive^
has, at all times, formed a subject of anxious inquiry «
To trace its source has been the unceasing idm of the
mighty and the learned. Kings, attended with all tiie
instruments of strength ; sages, fumished with all the
apparatus of philosofdiy, }xme engaged, with ardour, in
the curious search ; but their most patient and their most
powerful enterprises have been equally vain.

»

The source of die Nile continued still unknown ; and.
because it continued still unknown, the poets fotidly
fabled that it was to be found only in a superiour ofb ; and^
of course, it was w<Hi»hipped as a divinity.

We are told, however, that, at last, the soutce of th«J
Nile has been discovered ; and that it consists of — ^ndiat
might haye been supposed before the discovery— -a collex:-
tion of springs small, indeed, but pure.

The fate of sovereignty has been similar t6 that <jif tte
Nil^. Always magnificent, always interesting to mankind^
it has become alternately iJieit blessing and their curse.

LSCTURES Oir LAW. ^1^

lu origm has often faeeti attempted to be traced. The
great and the wise have embarked hi the undertadcing «
though aeldom, it must be owned, with the spirit of just
inqtuiy ; or in the direction, which leads to important
diaeovery. The source of sovereignty was still concealed
beyond some impenetrable mystery ; and, because it was
concealed, j^ilosophers and politicians, in this instance/
gravely tanght what, in the other, the poets had fondly
filled, that it must be something more than human : it
was impiously asserted to be divine.

Irately, the inquiry has been retcHnmenced with a
deferent i^ifit, and in a new direction ; and although the
discovery of nothing very astonishing, yet the discovery
of som^hing very useful and true, has been the result.
The dread and redoubtal^e sovereign, when traced to his
tiltiinate and genuine source, ha3 been found, as he ought
io have been foimd^ in the free and independent man.

This truth, so simple and natund, and yet sO neglected
or despised, may be appreciated as the first and funda-
mental' principle in the science of government.

'Brides die reasons, which I have already offered ;
others may be suggested, why the elements of a law
education ought to be drawn from our own constitutions
and governments and laws.

In ^y>^r^ government, which is not altogedier despo-
tical, the institution of youth is of some publick conse-
q^uence^ In a republican government, it is of the greatest.
Of no dass df citizens can the education be of more
publiek consequence, than that of those, who are destined
totajce an active part in publiek affairs. Those who have

VOL. I. E

26 LCCTiriUEft on law.

hid the ftdirantage of alawediicatk»i,«re very £i^«iiSodjr
destined to take this active part* This deduction- clesttr^
«how8^ that, in a free g|Oveniinetti> the jaineiples of m
law education are matters of the greatest pid>Uck con^-
sequence.

Ought not those principles to be congenial widi the
{Hrinciples of government? By the rev^^tion m tiio
United States, a very great akeration— «a very greift
improvement— as we have ahready seen, has ta&en pbce
in our system of government : ought not a proportiotied
alteration—- ought not a proportiotied improvement to be
introduced into our syalem of l«w edueaition I

We have passed the Red Sea in safety ; we h«ve sunrrved
a tedious and dangerous journey throujg^ the wikieniesi-:
we are now in full and peaceable possession of -die jat>»
mised land : must we, after aU, retom to the flesh pots of
Egypt? Is there not danger, diat when one mutsoQ
teaches, it may, in some instances, give the law to
another i

A founcbition of human happiness, broader and de^er
than any that has heretofore been laid, is now laid in the
United States : on that broad and deep foundation^ let it
be our pride, aa it is our duty, to build a superstructure of
adequate extent wnd magnificence.

But further ; many parts of the laws of £ng^kind ean^
in their own nature, have neither fraxe n^r ai^cation
here* Such are aM those parts, which are connected with
ecdesiasdcal jurisdictifm and an ecdeaiastacal efttaWinh-
meftt. Such are aU those parts, too^ which refaNto to the
monarchical and aristocraticfc hnmches of die Eng^isk

LBpTUASS OH LAW. df

^ii»tlliii»9ii« Evitacy oae, who has pisrused the pondkrous
vQktmfi&of the law, knows how great a proportion of them
iiB. iiBed with the niunenMis and extensive titles relating
to tibose.diff»rcxit subjects* Surely they need not enter
into the elemosts of a law education in the United States*

I mean not, however, to exclude them from the sub-
aeq«keiit investigation of those, who shall aspire at the
diara^er of accomplished lawyers* I only mean, that
they cffi^t not to be put into the hands of students, as
deserving the same time and the same attention with
oth^r parts, which are to have a practical influence upon
their future conduct in their ^ofession.

The numerous regulations, in Eng^sndj respecting the
foor, and the more artificial refinements and distinctions
concerning reaL estates, must be known ; but known as
ittttch in <^der to be avoided as to be practised. . The
study of them, therefore, need not be so minute hi»re as
in £n^[land.

Concerning many other titles of the English law,
similar observations might be made. The force and the
extent of each will increase day after day, and year after
year.

All combine in showing, that ihtfoundationf at least»
of a separate, an iinbiassed, and an independent law
<educadon shoidd be laid in die United States*

. Deeply impressed with tlie importance of diis truth, I^
iiave undertaken the difficult, the laborious, and the
delicate task of contributing; to lay that foundation* I
'eel most sensibly the weight of the duty, which I have

M LECTURES 03r LAM* \

I

€Bgaged to perform. I wil not promise to peitformk
siiccessfisUj— -as well as it might be performed: butl wiB
promise to perform it fitithfollf ^-las wdl as I caa peribrm
it. I feel its fiitt imporitaiice.

It may be asked — I am told it has been asked— is it
proper that a judge of the supreme court of the Uaited i
States should deliver kctures on law i It wiU not su¥f If <
be suspected, that I deem too lightly pf the. veiy digaified
and independent office, which I, have the hmour to hoId»
in consequence of the favourable sentiments es^it^med
concerning me by those, whose favourable. s^tim^iH
are indeed an honour* Had I thoi^t that the.digt^
of that seat could be disparaged by an alliance with this
chair, I would have spumed it from me« But I thought,
and I still think in a very different manoer. By ^
acceptanoe of this chaiir, I think I shall certsdnly imcf^m
my u^tefulness, without diminishing my digni^, as s'
ju«^ ; a»d I dunk, that, with equajl.<:ertamty, I shall,«i
a judge, increase my usefulness, I will not say vaj
dignity, in this chair. He, who is well qualified to
teach, is well qualified to judge ; and he, who is well
qusdifted to judge, is well qualified to teach. Every
acquisition of knowledge — and it is my du^ to acqjiire
much — can, witK equal facility, and with equal propriety,
be applied to either office : for let it be remembered,
that both offices view the same science as their common
object.

Any interference. as to the times of discharging the
two offices — ^the only one that strikes me as possibles-
will be carefully avoided.

But it miQr be further asked-— oug^t a judge to^ojmajt
himself by delivering his sentiments in a lecture ? To
LvonTRcs oir hAw. S9

liiis. qoesiion I shall giire aveiyespltmt aznwer: and
kk .that aniiTrer I sfaidl indud« the detcrminatioii, which
I'hfive tafeea both as a prdfetsor aad as a judge. When
I deliver mjr se n dme n ts itoim- diis diair, they shall be
My faoii^t sentiments z when I deliver them from the
bench, ^ey riiaii be nothing more. In both places f.
shall make'-^-because I mean to support— -the claim to
integrity: in neither shall I make— -because, in nei^er,
can I su{qK>rt— ^e claim to in&llibility.

My house of knowledge is, at present, too small. I
feel it my duty, on many accounts, to enlarge it. But in
this, as in every other kind of architecture, I believe it
wffl be found, that he, who adds much, must alter some.

When the greatest judges, who ever adorned or
iSuminated a court of justice, have candidly and cheer-
fully acknowledged their mistakes $ shall / be afraid of
ec^amit^g mysdif i

The learned and indefatigable Spelman, after all the
immense researches, which enabled him to prepare and
pabiish his Glossary, published' it with this reinarkable
premiution : ^^ under the protestation of adding, retract*
ing, correcting, and polishing, as, upon more mature
consideration, shall seem expedient." ^

I hope I have now ^own, that my acceptance of this
chair, instead of diminishing, is calculated to increase my
usefelness, as a judge. Does it derogate from my
dignity ? By no means, in my opinion.

^Sab pMestatiOAe de adAen^O} retrahendo, corrigende) pdliendoy>
limit opus faevit et Gonsultios vididbitor. SirH.Spelman.

Let thhigs be considered as they retUjr see, A» a
Jadge, I csm decide whether property iti diipiite befengi
to die man. on my right hand, oar to the mui on my left
band. As a judge, I canpaaa sei^eaceoiiafielQiitora
dieat. By doing both, a judge may be eminendy utdiil
in preserving peace, and in aecurhiig propexty, ,

Property, highly deserving securky, is, howe^er^ not
an en$l, but a means. How miserable, and how con*
temptible is that man, who inverts the order of nature,
and makes his property, not a means, but an end ! ' *

Society ought to be preserved in peace ; mostunqties^
tionably. But is this all i Ought.it not to be imparo«ed
as well as protected ? Look at individuals : observe them
from infancy to youth, from youth to manhood. Sudb it
the order of Providence widi regard to society. It is
m a progressive state, moving on towai'ds' peffe c ti o n»
How is this progressive state to be a^nated and accek*
rated ? Principally by teaching the young ^ ideM how to
shoot," and the young affections how to move* ,

What intrinsically can be more dignified, tlum to assist
in preparing tender and ingenuous minds for alLdie g^at
purposes, for which they are intended ! What, I repeat
it, can intrinsically be more dignified, than to assist in
forming a future Cicero, or a future Bae<m, without the
vanity of one, andwithout the meanness of theotiier!

Let us see how things have been considered in other
ages and in other, countries* .

Philip of Macedon, a prince highly difttingnished by
his talents, though not by his virtues, was fu&y senile

I.ftCTV&£8 OK LAW. Si

ofthe valiieof aciejuse. An heir was bom to his ktagdom
wad hbthfioiiie* Cotdd aay thing be more interesting to
a£^ber and a king? There was, it seems^ a circumstsince^
which, in has opinimt, eohanced the importance even of
thisevem. His heir was bom at a time, when he could
n^etve a most excellent education.

PhSip wsote to Aristotle the following letter: " You
aie to know that a son hath been bom to us. We thank
the gods, not so much for having bestowed him on us»
as for bestowing him, at a time when Aristotle lives«
We assure ourselves^ that you will form him a prince
woFlhy to bo our soccesaour, and a king worthy of
i MacedoB." ^

On Aristotle, accordingly, was devolved the charge of
siqtemteading the education of the young prince, ^' that
hk^aay be twi^t," saki PblUp> ^^ to avoid those errours,
;I have committed, and of which I now repent*"

What price Alexander the Great set upon his educa*
tion, before his mittd was fatally poisoned by the mad-
ness of aori^tion, will 9fipear by a letter from him to
Aristotle, in which we find this sentiment: ^' I am not
so a&adous to appear superiour to the r^ of mankind in
power, SIS in the knowledge of excellent things."^ We
see here the impetus of strong ambition; but it had not
then taken its pernicious direction*

In the most shimng periods of the Roman republick,
men of the first distinction made the science of law their
pubUck profession, and taught it openly in their houses

* 1 UL L. BiiL 96. ^2 Lei. L. Ph^. 136.

32 LXXTUR25 OK LAW«

t

as in SO many schools. The first of Adse publick pro-
fessors was Tiberius Corascanms, who was rsiaed4o
the office of chief poiitiiF-<^he highest in die Mihdkt acak
of Roman honours. His example was foUowedbyimaiij
distinguished characters, among whom we find, the cde*
brated names of the two Scevobe, of Cato, of Brutus,
a^d of others well known to such as are conversant with
the writers of the classical ages. £ven Ckero himsetf,
after he had been consul of Rome, after he- had had
kings for his clients, projected diis very employmeot, as
his future "honour and ornament.'**

Whether, therefore, we consiiler the indmskk. brthe
external dignity of this chair; we shall find that it is, by
no means, beneath an alliance with the highest office!
and the highest characters..

If imy example, set bf me, caa>be supposed toinve
the least publick infiuence; I hope it will be in lai^i^dift
care of education to that hig^ degree of respectdbihty,
to which, every where, but especially in countries that
are free, it has die most unimp^achahle tide.

I have been zealous— I hope I have not been ^ikofft*
ther unsuccessful — in contributing the best of my en-
deavours towards forming a system of government; ^
shall rise in importance, if I can be e«[ually successful-^
I will not be less zealous — ^in contributing the best of
my endeavours towards forming a system of education
likewise, in the United States. I shall rise in impor-
tance, because I shafl rise in usefulness.

«

1 Decus et oraamentom. DeoratLl.'€.45.

LECTUBES ON LAW. 33

Wllat are laws without manners? How can manners
be formed, but by a proper education I '^

Methinks I hear one of the female part of my audi*
ence exclaim— What is all this to us? We have heard
much of societies, of states, of governments, of laws,
and of a law education. Is evejy thing made for your
sex f Why should not we have a share I Is our sex less
iMmest, or less virtucms, or leas wise than yours i

Will any of my brethren be kind enough to furnish
me with answers to these questions? — I must answer
them, it seems, myself? and I mean to answer them
most sincerely.

Tour sex is neither less honest, nor less virtuous, nor
less wise than ours. With regard to the two first of
these qualities, a superiority, on our part, will not be
jnretendedt with regard to the last, a pretension of su-
periority cannot be supported.

I will name three wcmien ; and I will then challenge
any of my brethren to name three men superiour to them
in vigour and extent of abilities. My female champions
are, Semiramis of Nineveh ; Zeno{>ia, the queen of the
East ; and Elizabeth of England^ I believe it will rea-
dily be owned, that three men of superiour active talents
cannot be named.

m The ancient wisdom of the best times did alw&ys make a
just complaint, that states were too busy with their laws ; and too
uegligent in point of education. 2, Ldl Bacon 433.

VOL. I. J

SA LKCTURES ON LAW*

Youi wsfl please, however, to tsdce oottctt, that the
issue, upon which I put the. chtoncters of tbese tiine
ladies, is not that they were accomplished; it is, that
diejr were abk women.

Thn distinctioB imme<&aitely reaiuid& }bo% tkil a
womoQ may be an able, witibout beiog an aceomplidi«d
female character.

In this latter view, I did not produce the three female
charactemi I have mentioned. L produceld: them as wo-
men, nserely of disting^shed id>ilitfcs*— >«f ' aiii^tief
equal to those displayed by the. most able of our ses..

But would you wish to be tried by the qualitieti of
ouv nsxi i will refer you to a more proper sttuuiafld—
that of yoar own*

All the three able cfaaraoters, L hasne meBtioirndt, faidt
I think, too much of the maaculiAenttfaeiik Peiihapa.1
can conjecture the reason. Might it not be owing, in
a great meaaure^^^-^nighc k not be oiwangi aleogedmr tQ»the
maAculibe employ meots^. t»* whkb tfa^ danrotsd fbof^
sehr^es?

Two of thenirwere akit warrioisrs*: all of ihem^were
able queens f but in all oi tbem^ we feel and we regpret
the loss of the lovely and accomplished wommL: and
let me assure you, that, in the estimation of our sex, the
ios& of the lovely and accomplished woman is itrepa-
rablcit even whea sjhe is lost in the quecQ.

For these reasons, I doubt much, whether it would
be proper that you should umlertake the managjeament of
publick affairs. You have, indeed, heard much of pub-

LXCTURn tm LAW* 35

Kek govewmevt and puMick law: but th^selliiiigB were
sot made for thfemsidves : they were made ibr Bomething
better; and of tliat something bettcsr, you form the bet*
ter partia-<>I nreaxi'society-fc*^! mean partrculariy domrestiek
secie^; there the ioveiy and accon^iBhed woman
shhies witii 6uperio«ir lustre.

By some f^olitlcians, society has been ^oftsidered as
cody die scafiMding of government; very improperly, ki
my judgment. In the just order of things, govern-
ment is the scaiFolding of society : and if society could
be built and kept entire wMmucgoveiHttieftt, the sca^Id-
iBg nught be thrown dow^, without tibe least ineonveni*
ence ot osmse of rbgr^t.

Gcyv«mment is^ indeed, highly necessary ; but it is
higfaty necessary to a fallen state. Had man continued
innoceiit, sbcie^, without the aids of government^
would have shed' its benign influeneis ^veii over the
bowers of Paradise.

For ihose bowers, how finely was your sex adapted t
But let it be observed, that every thing eke was finished)
before Heaven's ^* last best gift*^ was introduced : let it
be abo observed^ idiat, in ^m pure and perfect eom*>
mentement of society, diere was a striking difference
betwe«i the only tito peirsim^, who composed it. His
'* large Mt front and €f€ suUifoe^' declared that, <* for
contemplation and for valour he was formed."

<< For softaess, she, and sweet atkracdve graee.
Grace was in all her steps, Heav'n in her eye ;
tn every gesture, clignity and love.
A thtfu^nd deceades unceasing ilbw'd
Frodi^iHl hW #ords and actions, mbA With^
m ild compUaDce.'*

36 LECTURBS ON LAW.

Her accomplbhments indicated her de«tiii«ti<m« Fe-
male beauty is the expression of female virtue. The
purest complexion, the finest features, the most elegant
shape are uninteresting and insipid, pnless we can dis^
cover, by them, the emotions of the mind. How beau*
tiful and engaging, on the other hand, are the feamres,
the looks, and the gestures, while they disclose modes-
ty, sensibility, and every sweet and tender affection!
When these appear, there is a *^ Soul upon the counte*
nance."

These observations enhance the value of beauty;
and show, that to possess and to admire it, is to possess
and to admire the exhibition of the finest qualities, in-
tellectual and moral. These observations do more:
they show how beauty may be acquired, and improved,
and preserved. When die beauties of the mind are cul-
tivated, the countenance becomes beautifully eloquent
in expressmg them.

I know very well, that mere complexion and shape
enter into the composition of beauty: but they form
beauty only of a lo'^er cn'der. Separate them from
animation — separtite them from sensibilityi--separate
them from virtue : what are they ? The ingredients that
compose a beautiful picture or a beautiful statue. I say
too much ; for the painters and the statuaries know, that
expression is tl>e soul of mimick as well gs of real life.

As complexion and shape will not supply the place ,
of the higher orders of beauty ; so those higher orders
have an independent existence, after the inferiour influ-
ence of complexion and shape are gone. Though the
bloom of youth be faded ; though the impressions of

L1CTVRS8 OH LAW. 37

iiine be distinedy marked ; yet, while the countenance
continues to be enlivened by the beaming emanations of
die mind, it will produce, in every beholder possessed
of sensibility and taste, an effect £eur more pleasing, and
far more lasting, than can be produced by the prettiest
piece of uninformed nature, however florid, however
regular, and however young.

How many purposes may be served at once, if things
are done in the proper way I I have been giving a recipe
for the improvement and preservation of female beauty ;
but I find that I have, at the same time, been delivering
instructions for the ctdture and refinement of female
virtue ^ and have been pointing at the important pur-
poses, which female virtue is fitted and intended to
accomplish.

If nature evinces her designs by her works; }rou were
destined to embellish, to refine, and to exalt the pleasures
and virtues of social life.

»

To protect and to improve social Mfe, is, as we have
seen, the end of government and law. If, therefore,
you have no share in the formation, you have a most
intimate conneuon with the effects, of a good system of
law 'and government.

That plan of education, which will produce, or pro*
mote, or preserve such a system, is, consequently, an
object to you peculiarly important.

But if you would see such a plan carried into com-
plete effect, you must, my amiable hearers, give it your
powetful assistance. The pleasing task of forming

t^ LXCTtritBl OW I.AW.

jour daughters » almost solely }^oun. la my pfakn of
Mucation for your sotts, I muit aoUeit you to cooperate.
Th^r Yirtues, in a certain proportioii-^tke refin^n^ifc
of their virtues, jn a much ^eater proporlioa, Must bta^
aioulded on your example.

In your sex, too, there is a natural, an Msyf'aBd,
often, a pure flow of diction, which lays the best fbunda*
tion for that doquence, which, in a free country^ ii so
impcHtant to ours*

The Myle of some of the fiaest orators of anCiquitjr
was originally formed cm that of their mothers^ or of
other ladies^ to whose acquaintance they had the honour
€>f besHir introduced.

I have already mentioned the two Scevolae among the
illustrious Roman character^. One of them wa^ maltied
to LtBlia^ a lady^ whose virtues and acijomplishmenta
rendered her one of the principal ornaments of Rome*
She possessed the elegance of language in so eminent
a degree, that the &rst speakers of the age were ambi-
tio\is of her company. The graces of her unstudied
elocution were the purest models by which they eoidd
refine their own.

Cicero was in the number of those, who improved by
the privilege of her conversation* Iti his writings, he
speaks in terms of the warmest jursuse concerning her
singular talents. He laentions sd^ the conversaticm of
her daughters and grand daughters, as deserving parti*
pilar notice.

The province of early edueation by the female seX|
t^as deemed^ in Rome, an employment of so much dig<^

L£CTUftES OK LAW. M

ttky, tiial kdies of the first yank did not dssdain it« Wc
find &e names of Aurelia and Attta, the mo&ers of
Julkis Ca^^f aod of Augustas, enumerated in the list of
these honouraUe patronesses of education.

The example of the higbljr accomplished Comdia,
the dsmgltter of the great Africanus, and the mother of
the Gracchi, deserves uncommon attention. She shone,
with singular lustre, in all those endowments and virtues

that can dignify the female character.

f

She was, one day, visited by a lady of Campania,
who was extremely fond of dress and ornament. This
lady, after having displayed some very rich jewels of her
own, expressed a wish to be favoured with the view of
those which Cornelia had ; expecting to see some very
superb ones, in the toilet of a lady of such distinguished
birth and character* Cornelia diverted the conversation,
iSH her sons came into the room : ^^ These are my
jeweb," said she, presenting them to the Campanian
lady.

Cicero had seen her letters : his expressions con*
eemtng them are very remarkable. " I have read,"
aays he, ^^ the letters of Cornelia, the mother of the
Gracchi ; and it appears, that her sons were not so much
nourished by the milk, as formed by the style of their
mother-""

You see now, my fair and amiable hearers, how deep-
ly and nearly interested you are in a proper plan of law

^ Leg^mus epistdas Comeliac, matris Gracchorum: apparet
filios noQ tarn in gremio eduoatos, quaqi in sermone matris. Cic. de
clar. orat. c. 58.
LECTURES ON LAW.

education. By some of you, whom I know to be well
qualified for taking in it the share, which I have descri*
^ bed, that share will be taken. By the younger part of
you, the good effects of such a plan will, I hope, be
participated: for those of my pupils, who themselves
shall become most estimable, will treat you widi the
highest degree of estimation,

PLAN.

G£NTL£M£N,

X ERMIT me, at this time, to address, ii^ a vety few
words, the younger and more inexperienced part of those
who attend my lectures — I say the younger and more
inexperienced part ; because my lectures are honoured
with the presence of some, whose learning, talents, and
experience fit them for communicating instead of receiv-
ing instruction here. For the honour of their presence,
I must consider myself indebted to the importance of
my su|>ject ; and to a desire, generous and enlightened,
of countenancing and encouraging every attempt, how-
ever feeble, to diffuse knowledge on a subject so
important.

You have seen, my young friends, iti what a high
point of view I consider your education. Is this on your
own account i Partly it is*— 4hat you may be great and
good men. But 9olely it is not; for more extended
hopes are entertained concerning you: you are designated
by your education, and by your country, to be great and
good citizens.

VOL. I. G

42 % XiCCTtrRCS OK I.JLW»

In no other pan of th^ world, and in no fiM-mer period,
even in this part of it, have youth ever beheld so ^oriona
and so sublime a prospect before them. Your coutttiy
is already respectable for its numbers ; it ia free ; it »
enlightened ; it is lourishing ; it is happy: in numbers ;
in liberty ; in knowledge ; in prosperity ; in happiness
it is receiving great and rapid accessions. Its honours
are already beginning to bud : in a few years, they will
" blossom thick" upon you. You ought certainly, by
proper culture, to qualify yourselves in such a manner,-,
that when the blossoms fade and fall, the fruit may begin
to appear. Remember that, in a free government, eveiy
honour implies a trust ; that every trust implies a duTf ;
and that every duty ought to be performed.

I mean not, that such of you as.anr designed for Ae
practice of ^ law, ^oidd be matteative to the eisK^tt"
meats of your profession ; but I mean that you rti€^*
consider it as something higher than a mete inaltumeai
of private gieua. By being fitted for higher puirpOiies, k'
will not be less fit, it will be more At for muofrnflMmt
this*

It is peculiarly neee^swry, thM jrou should, as ^ooii ai
possible, form proper conceptions of what oug^t to bt
your objects in your course of study. Let them n<^ be
fixed too low : the higher your aims, the higher your
atuiinments will be. To assist you in finding those aimst
let me lay before you the sentiments of a writer, who
wrote on some subjects most eaeetteisdy, and on ottoM
most contemptibly^*— I mean Lord Bcding^roke. Wkea
ha wtt)«eonp<dtticks(MrbiiMine«8, hewvotewetl; fcet^uM
ha wrote on what he knew : when he wrote ooneemiO§
religion, he wrote ill ; because he wrote coneetfiaiag **«>

LK<tTyiiB» OtM LAW^
of wUdi 1m waiS'ignj^ravkt. The paMAge I am ^^ut to
%iii0te tQ jrou 10 vouched by thb respectable avuhority of
I#OJr4 KftioKH who; coasidered it, and justly, as a master
pifitQ «f expreaBum a«d thqught.

ft(

I might matasce," says he, ^^nq^er professions,
oUtgatkms xrncn lie under of apf^yiog^ themselves to
oevtam parts of history ; and I ca^ hardly forbear doing
is in that of the ktw, in its nature, the noblest and most
Veneficiai to mankind, in its abuse and debasement, the
most sordid and the most pernicious* A lawyer now is
vmbrng BMret I speak of ninclty uine in a hundred at
bant" (the proportion in this country, I believe, is much
ssnaUer) ^ to use some of TuUy's words, ^^ nisi liguleius
qnidam cautne, et acutusprseco actionum, cantor formu-
larum, antcepssySabaram:" but there have been lawyers
th^ were orators, philosophers, histjCffians : there have
haen Baeons and Clarendcms. There will be none such
avy more, tUly in some better age" (I h^pe that better age
has. Soamd you, my young friends) ^^ true ambition or the
love of fitma prevail over avariee ; and till men find
leisure and encouragement for the exercise of this
pn^&ssiooi, by climbing up to the vantage ground, so my
IrOfd Bacoa eaUa it,, of science,^ instead of groveling all
their lives below, in a mean but gainful application to all
the little arts of chicane* Till this happen, the profession
of bw will scarce dea^rve to be ranked among the
learned profesaiona: a»d whenever it happfps, one of
tile vantage grounds, to vdiicb men niust clbnb, is
nfstaph^sicalv and die other, historical biowlldge/' Ey

« It 18 not possible to ^seever ^le more Mnoie, and deeper pans
i#SB^ scknce, W ysnsuadbat upon the4evel of tbe some S6i«»ce>
and ascend not to a higher science. 3. Ld, Bac 439f

i

I

44 LBCTURS8 OR LAW.

metaphysical knowledge, -his lordship evidentfy meaan
the philo50}di7 of the human mind; for he goes on in
this manner. ^^ They must pry into the secret recesses
of the human heart, and become well acquainted with the
whole moral world, that they may discov^ the abstract
reason of all laws : and they must trace the laws of
particular states, especially of their own, from ^e first
rough sketches to the more.perfect draughts ; fmm At
first causes or occasions that produced Uiem, tiarough att
the effects, good and bad, that they produced." .

*

Such^ my young friends^ are the great prospects bele«^
you ; and such is the general outline of those studies, hj
which you will be prepared to realize them. Suffer me
to recommend most earnestly this outline to the utmost
degree of yoi\r attention. It comes to you supported
with all the countenance and authority of Bacon, Boiing-
broke, Kaims — two of them consummate in th^e practice,
as well as in the knowledge of the law-^all of diem
eminent judges of men, of business, and of ^literature ;
and aH distinguished by the accomplishments of an active,'
as well as those of a contemplative life. The propriety,
the force, and the application of dieir sentiments will be
gradually unfolded, fully explained, and walrmly urged %m
you in the course of my lectures.

It is by no means an easy matter to form, to digest,
and to arrai%e a plsm of lectures, on a subject so vari«
ous and so extensive as that of law. With great defer-
ence to some of you^ with anxious zeal for the infor^.
mation of others, I lay before you the following analysis:
reserving, however, to myself, the full rig^t and force
of the protestation, which I have already borrowed

f BoUng. of the Study of History, let. 5. p. 149.

LIBCTimtB Olf LAW. 45

from Sir Henrjir Spehtian, of adding, retracting, correct-
ing, and polishing, as, on more mature consideration^
shall appear to me to be expedient, q

I begin with the general princifdes of law and oUiga«
tion. . These I shall investigate fully and minutely ;
because they are die basis of every legal system ; and
because diey have been much misrepresented, or much
misunderstood.

Next, I shall proceed to give you a concise and very
general view of the law of nature, of the law of nations,
and of municipal law.

I shall then consider man, who is the subject of all^
and is the author as well as the subject of the laist, and
part of the second of these species of law. This great
title of my plan, dignified and interesting as it is, must
be treated in a very cursory manner in this course. I
will, however, select some of the great trudis which
seem best adapted to a system of law. I will view
man as an individual, as a member of society, as a
member of a confederation, and as a part of the great
commonwealth of nations.

His situation, under the third relation, is, in a great
measure, new ; and, to an American, peculiarly impor«
tant: It wiO, therefore, merit and obtain peculiar
attention.

' ■ • ' »

The proper discussion of this title will draw <m a
discussion of the law of nations^ under sm aspect, almost

9 Scxne alterations, as the reader will observe, were afterwards
made in the plan ; but they are neither numerous nor important
and need not be here pvticularized. £d.

4€t LVCtlTRXt ew ZJLW*

wiioHi)^ «tw. How far, ob the prmci{^Ies of Ihe equfl^
denuion, does die kwof aadums become tbe muiikipd.
law of the United States ? The greatnem of this <|ifte8tiQQ
is selfevideitf : it woidd be very unwise, at present,
mvtn to hi»t at an answer.

After haft^kig esamioed these iq^^rtwt p^fpa^Mpry
topkksy I shall trace the causes, the oripn, the progiis^
the history, the kinds, the parts, and th^ properties o£
government*

Under this title, I shall have €»ccaiBAcm to treat con*!
ceming legislative, executive, and judicial pow^r i and
to investigate and compare the simple and the mixt
species of goveimments and coiistitutioB»r*-Qiie, partka-
farly^ that is simp^ in its principle, tJKHig)i diversifi^dc
ui its form and operatiitfxa*

«

This will lead me to a particular exs^ninajtion of tbt
aonsftkmipn and gov^grnm^nt of the United Sta3tes, oC
Pennsylvania, and of her sister co^&monwealths*

By this timo, we sha^ be qualified to. emjter^ with
proper advantage, upon the iUus^ation of the^ diffor^nto^
parts of our municipal law. The common law is the
fifist gvent Gdbject^. which iiriQ here present itself. I shall
thinks it my- duty to investigate very carefully ita^ princi* -
pk&, its nature, and} its< hosiery ; . partii^ulazly th^ gre^
event ol its transmigration from £urope to A^eriu »
and the subsequent juridical history of the Americ^ii.
States.

Our municipal law, I shall con»der under two gr^
divisions. Under the first, I shdffl treat of the law, as it
)[!tolateft to >et&om : imder the second, I sh«& treftt of i€^
as it rdates to things.

The division of the United States into eircuits, dis-
tricts, states, counties, and townships wiH, probably, be
introduced here, with some remarks concerning the
<aiuses, the operation, and the consequences of those
divisions.

In considering the law as it relates to persons, the
legislative department of the United States will occlipy
the first place ; the executive department, the second;
and the judici^ department, the third.

Under the first, the institution and powers of con*
gress will come into view. The principles on whith
the senate and house of representatives are separately
established, will be carefully discriminated; and the
necessary remarks will be made on the great doctrine
of representation. The importance and the manner of
legislation wffl also claitn a portion of our regard.

In considering the executive auAority of the United
States, the appointment, the powers, and the duties of
the president, trill first attract our notice. We wiB theli
proceed to consider the number and the nature of the
subordinate executive departments. We shall hf^e have^ati
opportimity of taking a very general view of the civil,
commercial, fiscal, maritime, and military establishments
of the United States.

When we come to the judicial department, our atten-
tion wis be first drawn tfe the supreme court of the Uni-
ted States. Its ^abftshment and its jurisdicticfn wfll

43 LSCTUaiS ON LAW.

be particularly considered; as also the es^^liq^eoit
and jurisdiction of the circuit and district cott]rts«.

Here the natare, the history, and the. jurisdictioQ of
courts in general ; and the powers and duties of judges,
juries, sheriffs, coroners, counsellors, and attomies wiU
be naturaUy introduped. ,

Perhaps this may be the proper place, likeMftise, (or
some general observations on the nature and philosophy
of evidence; a proper system of which is the greatest
desideratum in the law.

The iAvestigation of the different p^ts pf the comA'

tu^ion and government of the United Sta^s, will lay

the foundation of a very interesting parallel between

them ^d the pride, of Europe — the British consti-

' tution.

' .

|f the consideration of the legislative, executive, ati4
judicial departments of the sister states can, without in-
tricacy or confusion, be severally arranged under the
three corresponding articles in the constituti<m pf the
United States ; the patrts of my plan will be considemUy
reduced in their number. . I hq>e, but I am not confident,
that this can be done. Upon this, as upon every other
part of my plan, I shall be thankful for advice.

Bodies politick and infefioiu* societies will be deacri-.
bed and distinguished*

The relations of private and.of domestick life will
pass in review bef<»% us ; and itft^ these, the rights a^d
duties of citizens will come under consideration*

xu:tu&X8 (m law; 49

Rieiie die imporuat prmoiples of deolxoii inrifl it^c«:iv$
tiie Merits attention*

^Theriglxts, priviieg;ea, and ilisabi^tses ottH&tmivfiB;
then be examined^

Happy would itjbe, if llie gnsat dmsien^f the law,
virhkh reflstefi to perBons, could be doaed liere;. But if
cannot be done* We are under .-die sad neieemljr of
viewing law as sometimes violated^ and man as some*
times guilty. Hence the ungracious doctrine of punish-
ment attd crimes.

t will introduce this disagreeable pait of my 4^at0m
with general^servations oonoemingiike naitux^e of crimes^
and the necessity and libe propordon of puniahm^ats;:
next, I will descend into a particular enumeration and
description of «ach « ofhd I wfll aftorwaids pomt out the
fi fferent ateps prescribed hy the law for apprehending^
detaining, trying, and puaishing offenders*

Here warrants, arrests, attachments, bail, cominit«
ments, impmonment, ajq^eala, infiinnaticina, indictments,
presentments, process, arraignments, pleas, trials, ver-
dicts, judgments, attainders, pardona, . forfeitures, cor-
ruption of blood, and eicecuttons will be considered*

With regard-to criminal law, tibis obserrs^op may be
made even in -a summary: it greaiilyineadsjrefoi!mati<m4
In the United States, the seeds of reformation are sown*

As to the seeond greiat div4«ioB ^of our .muaicipd
law;, whtch-relates toctfilngs; 'it m^ay^be aM comprehend*
ed under one word«-property. Cluims^ ^ic is true, may

VOL. I. H

so LICTURX8 OH LAW*

arise from a variety of sources, almost infinite : but tke
declaration of every claim concludes by lAeging a daf-
mage or a demand; and the decision of every success-
ful claim concIttd«» by awarding a satisfaction or a res-
titution in property.

I sball trace the history of property from its lowest
rude beginnings to its highest artificial refinements ; andt
by that means, shall have an opportunity of pointmg
out the defects of the first, and the excesses of the last.

Property is of two kinds; publick and private*
Under publick property, common highways, common
bridges, common rivers, common ports are included.
In the United States, and in the states composing the
Union, there is much land belonging to the publick.

Private property is divided into two kinds ; personal
and real : things moveable are comprehended under th«
first division: things immoveable, under the second.

Estates in real property are measured by their dura-
tion. An estate of the greatest duration, is that whick
is in fee, or ^^to a man and his heirs," in the language
of the common law. Real property of shorter duratiob
is known by the names of estates tailf estates in tail after
possibility of issue extinct, estates by the curtesy of
England, estates in dower, estates for life, estates for
years, estates by sufferance, and estates at will.

Estates may be either absolute or conditioni^i Un-
der the title of conditimiAl estates, the excellent law of
Pennsylvania with regard to mortgage will deserve par-
ticular consi^ration*

LECTURJtS ON LAW* 5)

Estates mdy be in possession, or in ea^ctancy. lin-
ger die lost head, reversions, remainders, vested and
^:ontingent, aaid eacecutory devises will, be treated.

4-

Profperty may be joint or cptemporary, as well as se-»
parate and successive. Here we will treat concerning
coparceners, partners, joint tenants, and tenants in com-
mon.

Property may be acquired by occupancy, conveyance,
descent, successi<m, wiU, custom, forfeiture, judgment
in a court of justice. In much the greatest number of
Instances, the s^rquisition <A property by one is accom«
panied widi the mmsfer of it by another.

# • ,

Conveyances are by matter of record; as a fine, a
•ommon recovery, a deed enrolled: or. by master in
psds ; as livery, deed: here the nature and different
kinds of deeds, at common law, and by virtue of stap
4utes, will be particularly considered*

Property may consist of things in possession, or of
things in action.

Land, money, cattle, are instances of the first kind ;
, debts, rights of damages, and rights of action are in-
stances of the second kind.

Theae are prosecuted by suit.

Y<Mi have heard much concerning the forms of
process, and proceedings, and pleadings. Much has
been tmtten in praise, and much has been written in ri-
dicule, of this part of law leammg. It has certainly
been abused: in some hands, it has become, and daily

does become iidfculofis. Aad what k ditfre dbsft has
been exempted from a simSar fate! ittli^isin hjersctf^
elegant and simple as she is^ y^ wkem dsressccl m tlia
tawdry or tattered robes put upon her by the false taate
of her injudicious frieftds^ assumes an avkwatd and ri-
diculous appeatanee*

Law has experienced the s£Une treatment with her
elder sister. But though the learning with regard to
pleas a&d pleadixkg has been abiksed^ it may certaiiify be
employed for daie most excellent piirpo8i«»s«

When properly directed and properly i^ed, the
science of well pleading is, indeed^ to. the language of
Littleton, ^^one of the most honourable, laudable, and
profitable things in our law."' Let use aho adduce, in
its ^Ehrour, th6 weighty testimony of Earl Mansfield*^
'* The substantial rules of pleading," says lki$ very able
judge, ^^are founded in strong sense, aad in the soundest
and closest logick > and so appear when well isaderstood
and explained: though, by being misunderstood and
misapplied, they are too ofitem itade use of. as the i^tru-
ments of chicane."

Permit me to add, that sonve of the forms of writs
and pleas, particularly those that are most ancient, «re
models of correct compositioit, as wdl as of justseati*
ment.

The history of a suit at law, from its commence^
me&t, throtigh fH Aa diffierai^' steps of its parogqass, to
its conclusions prestiit^ ati object very interesting to a

LCCTUREft ON LAW. 5$

mind sensible to the beauty of strict and accurate ar-
rangement. The dispositions of the drama are not made
with more exactness and art. Every thing is done by
the proper persons, at the proper time, in the proper
place, in the proper order, and in the proper form.

This history may be comprised under the following
tides-'-original writ, process, return, appearance— -in per-
son, by guardian, by next friend, by attorney — bail, de-
claration, profert, oyer, imparlance, continuance, pleas-^
in abatement and bar — replication, rejoinder, issue, de-
murrer, trial, demurrer to evidence, bill of exceptions,
verdict, new trial, judgment, appeal, writ of error,
execution.

CHAPTER II.

OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF J(<AW AND

OBLIGATION.

Vy ROER, proportion, and fitness pervade the universe.
Around us, we see ; within us, we feel ; above us, we
admire a rule, from which a deviation cannot, or should
not, or will not be made.

On the inanimate part of the creation, are impressed
the' continued energies of motion and of attraction, and
other energies, varied and yet uniform, aU designated and
ascertained. Animated nature is under a government
suited to every genus, to every species, and to every
individual, of which it consists. Man, the nexus tarius*
fue mundiy composed of a body and a soul, possessed of
faculties intellectual and moral, finds or makes a system
of Regulations, by which his various and important
nature, in every period of his existence, and in every
situation, in which he can be pl^ed, may be preserved,
improved, and perfected. The celestial as well as the
terrestriid world knows its exalted but prescribed course*
This angeb and the spirits of the just, made perfect, do
"clearly behold, and without any swerving observe/*

56 LECTURES ON LAW.

Let humble reverence attend us as we proceed. The
great and incomprehensible Author, and Preserver, and
Ruler of all things — he himself works not without an
eternal decree.

Such — and so universal ts hw. ^' Her seat," to use the
sublime language of the excellent Hooker,' ^^is the
bosom of God; her voice, the harmony of the world;
all things in heaven and earth do her homage ; the very
least as feeling her care, and the greatest as not exempted
from her power. Angeb 4nid men, cneatures of every
condition, though each in .different sort and manner, yet
all with uniform consent, admiring her as the mother of
their peace and joy."

Before we descend to the cooooideralaon ^f the ^ev^ral
kinds and pttrts of diis science, so dignified and so dmxw
sified, it will be proper, and it will ht useful^ to contpm*
plate it in one general and' comprehensive view ; and to
select some^f it$ leading ^md iuminous properties, mkich
wiB serve to guide and ddighten us in that long and
arduous journey, w4iidi we sowimdenake.

■ * ■ *

It may, perfiaps, foe expected, Aat I should begdi
with a regular definition sf iaw^ I am not ^insensible of
the use, but, at the same time, I^un not insensible dfthe
abuse of definitions. In their very nature, ^ley are not
calculated to extend the acquisition ofknowl^ulge, though
they hiay be weQ fitted to ascertain and {guard th^ liinitB
of 0iat knowledge, which is already acquired. '*f
definitions, if made with acciiracT^-HSnd donsi^ffiM^
accuracy ought to be dieir JndiepeasiMe 'Chari^ctdrifiticiE

1BCTURE8 OH lAW. 57

-^-ftmbiguities in expression, And different meanrngs of
the same term, the most plentiful sources of errour and
ef fallacy in the reasoning art, may be prevented ; or, if
that cannot be done, may be detected. But, on the other
hand, they may be carried too far, and, unless restrained
hy the severest discipline, they may produce much con«
fusion and mischief in the very stations, which they are
placed to defend.

You have heard much of the celebrated distribution
of thmgs into genera and species. On that distribution,
Aristotle undertook the arduous^ task of resolving all
reasoning into its primary elements ; and he erected, or
thought he erected, on a single axiom, a larger system of
abstract truths, than were before invented or perfected
by any dther philosopher. The axiom, from which he
sets out, and in which the whole terminates, is, that
whatever is predicated of a genus, may be predicated
of every species contained under that genus, and of every
individual contained under every such species.a On that
distribution likewise, the very essence of scientifick
definition depends: for a definition, strictly and logically
regular, ^ mnst express the genus of the thing defined,
and the specifick difference, by which that thing is dis-
tinguished from every other species belonging to that
gcnus."'^

From this definition of a definiti(Hi — ^if I may be par-
doned for the apparent play upon the word — ^it evidently
appears that nothing can be defined, which does not de-
note a species ; because that only, which denotes a spe-
cies, can have a specifick difference.

"" 1. GilL (4to.) 690. "" Reid's Ess. Int. la 11.

vox,. I. I

58 hJS^CTV^^ ON LAW.

But further : aspecifick difference ma^, in fact^ exist;
and yet language may furnish us with np words to ex-
press it. Blue is a species of colour; but . hpw shgU
we express the specifick difference, by which blue is dis-
tinguished from green ? .

Again : expressions, which signify things simple,, and
void of all composition, are, from the very force of the
terms, unsusceptible of definition. It was one of the
capital defects of Aristotle's philosophy, that he at-
tempted and pretended to define the simplest things.

Here it may be worth while to note a difference^ be-
tween our own abstract notions, and objects of nature.
The former are the productions of our own minds j we
can therefore define and divide them, and distinctly
designate their limits. But the latter run so much into
one another, and their essences, which discriminate
them, are so subtile and latent, that it is always difficu|j^
often impossible, to define or divide them with the ne-
cessary precision. We are in danger of circumscribing
nature within the bounds of our own notions, formed,
frequently, on a partial or defective view of the object

before us. Fettered thus at our outset, we are restrain-

If

cd in our progress, and govern the course of our in-
quiries, not by the extent or variety of our subject, byj
by our own preconceived apprehensions concerning it.

This distinction between the objects of nature and
our own abstract notions suggests a practical inference.
Definitions and divisions in municipal law, the creature
of man, may be more useful, because more adequate
and more correct, than in natural objects.

LECT0KJSS ON LAW. 59

By some philosophers, definition and (fivisiohare con-'
sidered as the two great nerves of science. But unless
they are marked by the purest precision, the fvdlest com-
prehension, and the most chgstiaed justness of thought,
they will perf^x, instead of unfolding^— they will dark-
eiXy instead of. illustrating, what is meant to be divided
or defined. A defect or inaccuracy, mudi more an im-^
propriety, in a definition or division, more especially of
a £rst principle, will spread confusion, distraction, and
contradictions over the remotest parts of the most ex-
tended System*

Errours in science, as well as in life, proceed inore fre-
quently £rom wrong principles, than from ill drawn con-
sequences. Prava regula prima may be the parent of
the most fatal enormities.

The higher sa edifice is raised, the more compactly
it is. built, the more precisely it is carried up in ^a just
direction — in proportion to all these excellencies, a rent
in the foundation will increase and become dangerous.
The case is the same with a radical errour at the foun-
dation of a system. The more accurately and the more
ingeiuously men reason, and the farther they pursue their
reasonings, from false principles, the more numerous and
the more inv^erate will their inconsistencies, nay, their
absurdities be. One advantage, however, will result—
those absurditiee and those inconsistencies will be more
easily traced to their proper source. When the string of
a musical instrument has a fault only in one place, you
know immediately how and where to find and correct it.

Influenced by these admonitory truths, I hesitate, at
present, to give a definition of law. My hesitation is

6tt LI^TtTKSS OK XAW.

increased by die fate of At far grealefltimittbertif Hsbm^
who have hitherto attempted it* Many, as k is natiinl
to suppose, and laboured haxre been ike efibrtar U> kifM
W ividun this scientifick cirdie ; but Utde BstUafBcAoth^
little instruction has been the results Almost every wn*
ter, sensible of the drfeets, the inacoiracies, or die im*
proprieties of the definttions diat have gone before faimi
has endeavoured to supply dieir place widi something, n
his own opinion, more proper, more accurttte, andmoit
complete. He has been treated by Ins soccessours, «t
his predecessors have been treated by him: andiiis defi*
nition has had only the eiFect of adding one more to fbe
ci o/t -)' ^^S^^ languid list. This I know, because I have

taken the trouble to read ^em in great mniAers; but
because I have taken die trouble to read diem, I ir3
spare you the trouble of hearing diem-— at least, die
greatest part of them.

Some of them, indeed, have a claim to attentieo:
^>ne, in particular, will demand it, for reaisons strikiiig
and powerful— I mean that given by the Commentator (m
the laws of England. '

N

m

Let us proceed carefully, patiendy, and minutely t»
examine it. If I am not deceived, the estaminatieiii will
richly compensate all the time, and trouble, and inVcjS-
tigation, that will be allotted to it ; for it wiH be uncon-
monly fruitfid in the princifJes, and in the consequences
' of the great truths and important <Usquiskions, whiefa
it will lead in review before us.

^^ Law,^ says he, ^' in its most general and compre.
hensive sense, signifies a rule of action." ^ In its proper

^ 1. BL Com. 38.

m^goHtBtumj a rule is an instrument, hy which « right
li«e-— the shortest and truest of aU-*— may be drawn from
one point to another. In its moral or figurative sense,
•k 'denotes a principle or power, that directs a num surety
and conciaety to attain the end, which he proposes.

Law is toadied a rule, in order to distinguish it from
ax sadden, a transient, or a particular order: unifor*
' mity, permanency, staUli^, characterize a law.

' Ags^n ; law is called a rule, to denote that it carries
along wi<h it a power and principle of obligation. Con-
cerning the nature and the cause of obligation, much
ingenious disputation has been held by philosophers and
writers on jurisprudence. Indeed the sentiments enter*
tained concerning it have been so various, that an account
of them would, in the estimation of my Lord Kaims, be
a " deUcate historical morsel."

This kxteresting subject will claim and obtain our
atteaition, next after what we have to say concerning law
in general.

When we speak of a rule with regard to human con-
>duct, we imply two things. 1. That we are susceptible
of direaion. 2. That, in our conduct, we propose an
end. The brute creation act not from design. They
eat, they drink, they retreat from the inclemencies of
the weather, wiAout considering what their actions will
ultimately produce. But we have faculties, which enablft
us to trace the connexion between actions and their
effects ; and our actions are nothing else but the steps.

* l.Bl. Com..44.

/

62 LtrCTUKSS OK hsm*

which we talcc, or the means which we ciftploy, to carry
iato execution the effects which we intend.

Hooker, I t^itnk, conveys a fuller and stronger con-
ception of law, when he tcslls us, that ^ it assigns unto
each thing the kind, that it moderates the force and
power, that it appoints the form and measure of work-
ing.'"^ Not the direction merely, but th^ kind alsO|
the energy, and the proportion of actions is suggested in
this description.

*

Some are of opinion, that law should be defined* ^fi
rule of acting or not acting ;" because actions may be
forbidden as well as commanded. But the same excel-
lent writer, whom I have just now cited, gives a very
proper answer to this opinion, and shows the addition to
be unnecessary, by finely pursuing the metaphor, which
we have already mentioned. " We must not suppose
that there needeth one rule to know the good, and another
to know the evil by. For he that knoweth what is straight,
doth even thereby discern what is crooked. Goodness
in actions is like unto straightness j wherefore that which
is well done, we term right." *

After this dry description of the literal and metapho-
rical meaning of a rule, permit me to relax your strained
attention by a critical remark. In the philosophy of
the human mind, it is impossible altogether to avoid
metaphorical expressions. Our first and most familiar
notions are suggested by material objects ; and we cannot
speak intelligibly of those that are immaterial, with-
out continual allusions to matter and the qualities of
matter.

y Hooker 2. « Daws. Orig. Laws, 4. 14. * Hooker 11.

f'

L£CTU]l£S ON LAW. 6^

B^des, in teftching moral science, the use of meta*
phors is not only necessary, but, if prudent, and honest,
and. guarded, it Is highly advantageous. Nature has
endowed us with the faculty of imagiiiiatiQn, that we may
be enabled to throw warming as well as enlightening
rays upon truth-— to embellish, to recommend, and to
enforce it. Truth may, indeed, by reasoning, be i^endered
evident to the understanding; b^t it cannot reach the
heart, unless by means of the imagination. To the
imagination metaphors are addressed.

From this short excursion into the field of criticism,
let us return to our legal tract. Law is a rule " prescribed.*'
A simple resolution, confined within the bosom of the
legislator, without being notified, in some fit manner, to
those /or wh^|p conduct it is to foi:m a rul^, can never^
with propriety, be termed a law.

There are many ways by which laws may be made
suiEciently known. They may be printed and published.
Written copies of them may be deposited in publicjk
libraries, or other places, where every one interested may
have an of^rtunity of perusing them. They may be
proclaimed in gener$d^ meetings of the people. The
knowledge of them may be disseminated by long and
universal practice. " Confirmed custom," says a writer
on Roman jurisprudence, " is deservedly considered 2%
a law* For since written laws bind us for no other
reason than because they are received by the judgment
of the people ; those laws, which the people have approv-
ed, without writing, are also justly obligatory on all.
For where is the difference, whether the people declare

dietr will by their suffrage, or hj their c<»idttct ? This
kind of law is sa^d to be established bjr .^manBers.''^

Of all yet suggested, the isode for the promu^atixm
of human laws by custom seems the moyt significant,
and the most effectual. It involves in it internal evidence,
of the strongest kind, that the law has been introdui;ed
by common consent,: and that this consent rests i^n the
most solid basis^-^experience as well as opinicm. This
mode of promulgation points to the strongest character-
istick of liberty, as well^s of law. For a c<msent thus
practically given, must have been given in the freest aiul
mosrt unbiassed manner.

With pleasure you anticipate the prospect of a j^ecies
of law, to which these remarks have sdirtady directed
your attention. If it were asked— --and it would be ne
improper question — who of all the makers and teacheis
of law have formed and drawn after them the most', the
best, and the most willing disciples ; it might be B€t
untruly answered— custom.

Laws may be pronmlgat^d by reason and conscience,
the divine monitors within us. They are thus know«
as effectually, as by words or by writing : in^ieed they
are thus known in a manner more noble and exalted.
For, in this manner, they may be said to be engraven by
God on the hearts of men : in this manner, he is the
promulgator as well as the author of natural law.

»> D, L 1. 1 3. 32. p. 1.

c The first written laws in Greece were f^vtn only ax centato
before the christian era^— 1. GilL 7. (4to.)

t£€T0EE6 ON liAW,
If a. simple resolution cannot have die force of a law .
before it be promulgated ; vrt may. certainly hazard the .
posttion^that it cannot have the force of a law, before
it b^ made : in other words, that ex post facto insfrmxients,
claixning the title and character of laws, are impostors*

Peculiarly striking, upon this subject, are the septic .
menta^of the criminal and imfortunate Strafford* I call ,
him criminal, because he acted ; I call him unlbrtunatef
because he suffered, agsunst the laws of his country. His
sentiments must make a deep. impression upon others ;
|]|^»:ause, when he^spoke them, he must have been deeply
impressed wit^ them himself. When lie spoke them,
he stood under a bill of attainder, suspende4 only by the
slender thread of political justice, and ready, like the
sword of Damocles, to fall on his devoted head. ^^ Do
w,e not live bylaws f And niuat we be punished by laws
before they are m^de ? Far better were it to live by no
laws at ail, than to put this necessity of divination upon
a man, and tp accuse him of the breach of a law, before
it be a law at all."**

In criminal jurisprudence, a Janus statute, with one
face looking backward, and another looking forward, is
a moiMter indeed.

The definition of law in the Commentaries proceeds
in this manner. ^^Law is that rule of action, which is
prescribed by some superiour, and which the inferiour
is boi^d to obey." A superiour ! Let us make a solemn
pause—* Can there be no law without a superiour ? Is it
mentiqf to law, that inferiority should be involved in

d Whitlocke 230.

VOL. I.

66 LECTURES ON tAl^'.r

the obligation to obey it ? Are these distifictions at the
root of er// legislation f

There isalaw, indeed, which flbws from the Supfcihe
of being— a law, more distinguished by the goodnesar,
than by the power of its allgracious Author. But there
are, laws also that are human ; and does it follow, that,
in these, a character of superiority is inseparaWy attached
to him, who makes them ; and that a character of
inferiority is, in the same manner, inseparably attached
to hiih, for whom they are mad^ ? WhatTls this supe^
riority? Who is this superiour ? By whom is he con-
stituted? Whence is his superiority derived ^ Does ijc-
flow from a source that is human ? Or does it flow from
a source that is tlivine ?

From a human source it cannot flow ; for no stream
issuing from thence can rise higher than the fountain.

./

If the prince, who makes laws for a people, is supe-
riour, in the terms of the definition, to the people, Who
arc to obey ; how comes he to be vested with the supe^
riority over them ?

If I mistake not, this notion of superiority, which is
introduced as an essentia! part in the definition of a law —
for we are told that a law always^ supposes some supe-
riour,^ who is to make it — this notion of superiority
contains the germ of the divine right — a prerogative
impiously attempted to be established—of princes, arbi-
trarily to rule ; and of the corresponding obligation-— a
servitude tyrannically attempted to be imposed— on the'
people, implicitly to obey.

e l.BLCoin.43.

He^^i^my by an grtful uae of "superiority" in po*
Utkks; and scepticis^m, by an artful use of '4deas" in
metaphy^cks, have endeavoured — imd their endeavours
h^yf^Jrequ^itly been att^Qded with too much success— -to
.d^troy all true, liberty and sound philosophy* By their
jbjaneful effects, the science of man and the science of

government have been poisoned to their verj^ fountains.

But those destroyers of others have met, or must meet,

with their own destruction,

* • * • *

. We now see, hofw necessary it is to lay the founda*

> ticms of knowledge deep and solid. If we.wkh to build

- upon the foundations laid by another, we see how ne-

vcessaryitis cautiously and minutely to examine them.

If they are unsound, we see how necessary it is to re-

vmovethem^ however venerable they may have become

by rjeputation ; whatever regard may have been diSbsed

•over them by those who laid them, by those who built

<0!i them, and by those who have supported them.

But was Sir William Blackstone a votary of despotick
power ? I am. far from asserting that he was. I am
equally far from believing that Mr. Locke was a friend
to infidelity. But yet it is unquestionable, that the
writmgs of Mr. Locke have facilitated the progress, and
have, given strength to the effects of scepticism.

The high reputation, which he deservedly acquired
for his enlightened attachment to the mild and tolerating

^ doctrines <A Christianity, secured to him the esteem and
confidence of those, who were its friends. The same

%high and deserved reputation inspiried others of very
different views and characters, with a design to avail
themselves of its splendour, and, by that means, to

4b *£s^tM%8':<Ar

a: fasdbttiiiig kind of luti^e <>v«#tlf«irowtf^tetteti
of a dark suid sable hue. The consequence •hnjS'lMCTy
thatthe writings of Mr.! Locke, one of the «tK^t 4UCf

c most sincere, and most aitiidble assertorsK>f - lAai^s^iuaABf
and true philo^phy, have beta perverted to pni^poses,

'which he would havedeprecattd and prevMited, had he
discovered or foreseen th^n*

Berkeley, the celebrated bishop: of Cloyne^^wsote Us

Principles of human Knowledge^— a book intended to

. disi»*ove the existence of.matter-^withthe expreaaview

> 4>f banishing' scepticism both from sdsncecand from:rdi«
. gion* ' Ho'^was* eves sanguiaeiin his expectations of suc-

>ces8« But the event l»s proved thathe-wa^egregiou^f
-mistaken ; for it is evident, from .die use tawitickiater

r authors have applied it, tlothis syvt^a leads direcdjrto

r uiiiveirsaJ^^epticism.

Similar, thou;g^ in an infiBrioar::de]gp-eey-h^e^«be^
and may be, the fate and the influence of the writings

' andc}uira;:ter of Sir WittiamBliickatonef even admitting
that he was as much a friend to liberty,, as Locke and

: Berkeley were friends to religion*

Qui in prosecuting the study of bw.on Jibecal princi-
ples and with generous views, our businaraft is noLUchless
with the character of the Commentairies or of their an-
: thor, than witb the doctrines which ihifj coBim- ^
■ >4he'»doetri]%es, insinuated i]>. the definition ofjhi^, €9^
r be supported on the pri&.^les:;of ^renoon imd scii^nP^f
<the defence of other^f^ii^jflea, which Lhaye thottgl^^ ^^

> be those of liberty, and just gove]^]:n€;|it^beix>mes-rI^
5 sorry to say it^-r-a fruitless attempt.

"S

'Sir WHliam Bbiekstone, however, wa» 40t the first,
«or.hasiie bem the last, who has d^fine^d lav upon. the
«ame princapies, or upon principles simiUi: a|id ^uall^
•^hangerous*

This sdbject is of such radical importance, that it
.will- be :vreil worth while .to trace it as far as oar mate*
rials can csny us ; for errour as well as truth. should be
^jcamiii>ed historically, and pursued back to its original
«aprings«

By eoonpariag what isr said, in the Commen^ries on

' *this sui4e;ct, with what is mejutioned concerning it i^ the

ar^tem of morality, jurisprudencei and politicks written

by Baron Puffendorff, we shall be satisfied that, from

the sentiments and c^nions delivered in the last men-

:tfoned performance, those in the &*sjt mentioned one

•Jtave been taken and adopted. ^^ A law," says Puffei^

:t}{0i!flF, *^ is the commsaid of a siqiteriour." ^ ** A law, -'

.says Sir William BJackstone, ^^ always supposes some

• sisp^iioui*, who is to make it." <

r ■

The introduction of si^riority, as a necessary part
. of the de^tion of Uw, is ti^a^ed ft*om Sir William
.'JHaekstone . to PuffendoiC This definition of Puffea-
dorff b sufostantiidly >the same with that of Hobbes.
^^ A law is the commaxMl of him or them, that have th^
^sovereign power, given to those that be his or their sub-
jects."^ It is substantially the same also with that of
p JBishop Sau^dersi^n. >^ La(W is a rule of actjio^ imposed *
•-%n; a subject, bygone .n^^ho 1ms power oyer him." *

^ Pi^.B. 1.. a 2. ^0. .p.il6. B. 1.. c. 6* 8.1. 2. p. 56. ^.

s 1. BL Com. 43. ^ 3. Da|^ 95. 96. > Daws. Orlg. L. 3.
cites Saiind. Pr»l. 5. s. 3.

trO LSCTUftSt OH LAir.

Let u« now inquire what is meant by superiorky,
that we may be able to ascertain smd recognise those
qualities, inherent or derivative, which entitle the 9U«
periour or sovereign to the tcanscendent power of im-
posing laws.

We can distinguish two kinds of soperiority. 1. A
superiority merely 9f power. 2* A superi<Hrity of
power, accompanied with a right to exercise that power*
Is the first sufficient to entitle its possessor to the cha-
racter and office of a legislator ? If we subscribe to th«
doctrines of Mr. Hobbes, we shall Say, that it is. ^^ To
those," says he, ^^ whose power is irresistible, the domi-
nion of all men adhereth naturally, by thehr ercdknoc
of power." ^

This position, strange as it is, has had its advocates
in ancient as well as in modem times. Even the accom-
jdished Athenians, who excluded it from their municipal
code, seem to have considered it as part of the receivect
law of nations. " We follow,^' says their ambassadour
in the name of his commonwealth, ^^the common na-
ture and genius of mankind, which appoints those to be
masters, who are superiour in stretigth. We have not
made this law ; nor are we the first, who have appealed
to it. We received it from antiquity : we are determi-
ned to transmit it to the most distant futurity : and we
claim and use it in our own case." i

Brennus, at the head of his victorious and ferocious
Gauls, with more conciseness, and with a less striking

k Dc Civc 187. (Puff. 64) J Puff. 6S. (ThucyO. IS.c 105)

1. Anac35;i.

>» . •

Lt:CTUlt£8 Off XAW; tt

inconsistency of character, t^Ils the van<|ttiB^ed Romans
** omnia fortium esse.""* Everything belongs to the
bold and the strong.

The prudent Plutarch thinks it " the first and princi*
pal law of nature, that he whose circumstances require
protection and deliverance, should admit him for his
ruler, who is able to protect and deliver him."*

' For us, it is sufficient, as men, as citizens, and as
states, to say, that power is nothing more than the right
of tfie strongest, and may be opposed by the same right,
by the same means, and by the same principles, which
are employed to establish it. Bare force, far from pro-
ducing an obligation to obey, produces an obligation to
resist.

Others, unwilling to rest the office of legislation and
the right of sovereignty simply on superiority of power,
have to this quality superadded preeminence or supe-
rtour excellence of nature.

Let it be remembered all along, that I am examining
the doctrine of superiority, as applied to human laws,
die proper and immediate object of investigation -in
these lectures. Of the law that is divine, we shall have
occasion, at another time, to speak, with the reverence
and gratitude which become us.

** It is a law of nature," says Dionysius of Halicar-
nassus, ^'common to all men, and which no time shall
disannul or destroy, that those, who have more

m

Puff. 65. (Livy.) *» Puff 65. (Plut, in Pdop.)

f^ I.-#Q1[UM8 OH X.AW«

tireagA and $xcelknce^ skafl bear ink <yrer'tIio«e, whop
hftye l$ss.'' <» The fslvourers. of this optnxm are mdoxtja*
nate, both Ui the illustrations, by whieh diey attempt lO;
evince it ; ai^d in the inferences, to which they ccmtend
it pves ri«e*

Becam»e Ckeroi by a beaujtiful mel^ipborY descHbes.
the government <^ the other powers of the nundas aa«
signed, by nature, to the understanding ; does it follow
t^t, in strict proprie^ oi reasoning, the right of legia*
lation is anoexed, without s^iy assignment, to spperkmr-
excellence ?

Aristotle, it seems, has ssud, that if a m^m cmiid h/c^
fpui;id, excelling in all virtues, such an one w;ould hav^
a fair title to be king. These words may well be onder-
ttood as conveying, and probably were intended to con-
vey, opiy this unquestionable truth^r-^lbat excellence, in
eveiy virtue furnished the-stixmgeat recoii^nuDn4s4pon, is|
favour of its happy possessor, ta be elected for t^e e3|ev*,
cise of authority. If so, the opinion of Aristptlid ia i|fg«^
without a foundation properly laid in the fisct.

But let us suppose the conla?aTy : let us fti^pos^ it
hfi the judgment of Aristotle, that tbe person, whom he.
characterizes, derived his right to th^ exercise of pow^r*
not from the donation made to him by a voluntas, dic-
tion, but solely from his superiour talents a^d excellence;
riiall the judgment of Aristotle supersede inquiry into
its reasonableness I $hall the ju^gmeni^ of Aiistolje, if
fouf^d, on inquiry, tp be unrei(fO|3$|bl€^ sp^^i^ all repf^^r*
hensif^n or confutation? Decent resj»^ fqpr af^jth^jNsr. k

.I.ECTU&E8 iXSt LAW. 73

i^voimible to science. Implicit confidence is its lane.
Xiet us adopt-<-~for it is necessary, in the cause of truth
and freedom, that we should adopt — ^the manly expostu«
lation, which the ardent pursuit of knowledge drew from
the great Bacon— -^^ Why should a few received audiors
stand up like Hercules's columns, beyond which, there
shpuld be no sailing or discovery? "

V

To Aristotle, more, th^n to any other writer, either
itficient or modern, this expostulation is strictly appUca-
hie* Hear what the learned Grotius says on this subject.
^ Among philosophers, Aristotle deservedly holds the
chief place, whether you consider his method of treating
subjects, or the aci^teness of his distinctions, or the weight
of his reasons. I could only wish that the authority of
this great man had not, for some ages past, degenerated
into tyranny ; so that truth, for the discovery of which
Aristotle took so great pains, is now oppressed by nothing
ipiore than by the. very name of Aristotle." ^

Guided and supported by the sentiments and by the
conduct of Grotius and Bacon, let us proceed) with
freedom and candour combined, to examine the judg«
ment — though I am very doubtful whether it was the
judgment — rof Aristotle, that the right of sovereignty is
founds on superiour excellence.

To that superiority, which attaches the right to com*
mand, there must be a corresponding iiiferiority, vhich
imposes the obligation to obey. Does this right and this
obligation result from every kind and every degree of
superiority in one, and from every kind and ev6yy

P 6ro. PreL 29.

VOL. I. I.

t4 LECTVKBS ON L4W.

degree of inferiority in another ? How is excellence t$
be 'rated or ascertained ?

Let us suppose three persons in three diiFerent grades
of excellence. Is he in the lowest to receive the law im-
mediately from him in the highest f Is he in the highest
to give the law immediately to him in the lowest grade?
Or is there lo be a gradation of law as well as of exceU-
lence ? Is the command of the first to the third to be
conveyed through the medium of the second i Is the
obedience of the third to be paid, through the same
medium, to the first ? Augment the number of grades,
and you multiply the confusion of their intricate amd
endless consequences.

Is this a foundation sufficient for supporting the solid
and durable superstructure of law ? Shall this foundation,
insufficient as it is, be laid in the contingency— -allowed
to be improbable, not asserted to be even possible— ^^^ if
a man can be found, excelling in all virtues ?"

Had it been the intention of Providence, that some
men should govern the rest^ without their consent, we
should have seen as indisputable marks distinguishing
these superiours from those placed under them, as tho0(f
which distinguish men from the brutes. The remark of
Rumbald, in the nonresistance time of Charles the secoadi
evinced propriety as well as wit. He could not c<Niceivc
that the Almighty intended, that the greatest part of
mankind should come into the world witt^ saddles os
their backs and bridles in their mouths, and that a few
should come ready bootied and spurred to ride the rest

, I,BCTt7RB8 OH LAW. f5-

tQ death. ^ Still more apposite to our purpose is the.
s^y^ng of him, who declared that he would never sub-
scribe the doctrine of the divine right of princes, till he
beheld subjects bom with bunches on their backs, like
camels, and kings with combs on their heads, like cocks ;
ifiDm which striking marks it might indeed be collected,
Ant the former were designed to labour and to suffer,
smd the latter, to strut and to crow. "" ^

These pretensions to superiority, when viewed from
die proper point of sight, appear, indeed, absurd and
Yiiiculous. But these pretensions, absurd and ridiculous
aa diey are, when rounded and gilded by flattery, and
iwaSowed by pride, have become, in the breasts of prin-
ces, a deadly poison to their own virtues, and to the
hairiness of their unfortunate subjects. Those, who
have been bred to be kings, have generally, by the pros-
tituted views of their courtiers and instructors, been
taug^ to esteem themselves a distinct and superiour
specie among men, in the same manner as men are
a distinct and superiour species among animals.

Lewis the fourteenth was a strong instance of the
effect of that inverted manner of teaching and thinking,
which forms kings to be tyrants, without knowing or
even suspecting that they are so. That oppression,
under which he held his subjects, during the whole
course of his long reign^ proceeded chiefly from the
principles and habits of his erroneous education. By
this, he had been accustomed to consider his kingdom
as his patrimony, and his power over his subjects as his
rightful and undelegated inheritance. These sentiments

% L Burgh* Pol. Dis. 3. »^ Boling. Rem. 209,

76 LECTURES ON LAWk

were SO deeply and strongly imprinted on his mind, Aat^
when one of his ministers represented to him the miseiw
able condition to which those subjects were reduced, and,
in the course of his representation, frequently used die'
word " Tetat," the state ; the king, though he felt tlie
truth, and approved the substance of all that was said, yet
was shocked at the frequent repetition of the word
" Petat," and complained of it as an indecency offered to
his person and character.

And, indeed, that kings should imagine tllemiPelTes
the fin9l causes, for which men were made, and societies^
were formed, and governments were instituted, will
cease to be a matter of wonder or surprise, when we find
that lawyers, and statesmen, and philosophers have taught
or favoured principles, which necessarily lead to the sane
conclusions.

Barbeyrac, whose commentaries enrich th« pcrfonn^
ances' of the most distinguished philosophers, at one
time, taught and favoured principles, which necessarily
led to the conclusions, so degrading and so destructive
to the human race. On this subject, it will be worth
while to pursue his train of thoughts

In the formation of societies and civil gover n m en t s ,
three different conventions or agreements are supposed,
by Puffcndorff and many other writers, to have taken
place. The first convention is an Engagement, by those
who compose the society or state, to associate to^etiier
in one body -y and to regulate, with one common consent,
whatever regards their preservation, their security, their
improvement, and their happiness. The second con-
vention is, to specify the form of government, that shall

LECnXRES ON LAW. 77

be^st^aUished among them. The third convention is an

^giigement between the following parties ; that is to say,

the person or persons, on whom the sovereignty, or

superionQr, or majesty-— for it is called by all these

naooes-— is conferred, on one hand ; and, on the other

hfuid, those who haye conferred this sovereignty, this

siftperiori^, this majes^ ; and are now, by that step, as

it seems, become subjects. By this third convention,

the sovereign engages to consult the common security

and advantage of die subjects ; and the subjects engage

to- observe fidelity and allegiance to the sovereign. From

this last convention, the state is supposed to receive its

final completion and perfection.

This account of the origin of society and government
will be fully considered afterwards. I introduce it now,
in order to show the force and import of Barbeyrac's
observation concerning it. "The first convention," says
he^ " is only, with regard to the second, what scaffolding
is with regard to the building, for whose construction it
was erected."*

And is it so ? Is society nothing more than a scaffold-
ing, by the means of which government may be erected j
and which, consequendy, may be prostrated, as soon as
the edifice of civil government is built ? If this is so, it
must have required but a small portion of courdy
ingenuity to persuade Lewis the fourteenth, that, in a
monarchy, government was nothing but a scaffolding for
die king.

For the honour of Barbeyrac, however, let not this
account be concluded, till it be told, that this did not

" Puff 641. note to b. 7. c. 3, s. 8.

7S LECTURES OK ZJIW..

continue to be always his sentiment ; that, on conaidbesv
ation and reflection, this sentiment was changed; said
that, when it was changed, he, as every other great asud
good man will do on similar occasions, freely and nobljr
retracted it. But although it has heepi retracted by
Barbeyrac, it has neither been retracted nor abaBdone5l
by some others.

To evince"" that I speak not without foundation, and to
show, what will not be suspected till they are shown^ the
extravagant notions which have boen entertained on this
head, I will adduce a number of sentences and quotations,
which Grotiiis* has collected together, in order to combat
the sentiments of those, who hold that the supreme power
is, always and without exception, in the people.

Historians and philosophers, poets and princes, bishops
and fathers, are all summoned to' oppose the dangerous
doctrine*

When Tacitus says, " that, as we must bear with
storms, barrenness, and the inconveniences of nature, so
we must bear with the luxury or avarice of princes ;"
Grotius tells us, " 'tis admirably said." Marcus Anto-
ninus, the philosopher, is.produced as an authority, ^^ that
magistrates are to judge of private persons, princes of
magistrates, but God alone of princes." King Vitigis
declares, that " what regards the royal power is to be
judged by the powers above ; because it is derived from
heaven, and is accountable to heaven alone." Ireneus^
we are informed, says excellently, " by whose orders
men are born, by his command kings are ordained.'^

* Grotius 68— -n.

LECTURES ON LAW. f9

The same doctrine is contained in the constitutions of
Cleinent. ^^ You shall fear the king, knowing that he is
chosen of God.*'

In a tragedy of iEschylus, the suppliants use this.

*

language to the king. *' Sir, you are the city and the
publick ; you are an independent judge. Seated upon
your throne as upon an altar, you alone govern all by
your absolute commands."

Here we have the very archetype of the idea of Lewis
the fourteenth, sanctioned by the name of Grotius. If the
king was the city and the publick ; to mention " Tetat'*
in his presence, as something separate and distinct, was
certainly an indecency ; because it contained an implied
though distant limitation of his power.

The rfeverend bishop of Tours addresses the king of
France in this very remarkable manner : *' If any of us,
O king! should transgress the bounds of justice, he may
be punished by you : but if you yourself should offend,
who shall call you to account ? When we make repre*
sentations to you, if you please, you hear us : but if you.
will not, who shall condemn you ? There is none but he,
who has declared himself to be justice itself."

X.et me also mention what Heineccius says, in much
more recent times, in his System of Universal Law.
•* The doctrine," which makes the people superiour to
the king or prince, and places in the former the real, and
in the latter only personal majesty, is a most petulant
bne. It is the doctrine of Hottoman, Sidney, Milton,

*» 2. Heiii. 120. 121.

<

I

80 I.£PTU&KS ON. LAW.

and others. Since a people, wheii they unite into a te*
publick, renounce their own will, and subject thems^lvea
to the will of another, with what front can they call
themselves superiour to their sovereign ?"

And yet Heineccius ' himself allows, that ^^ Grotius
(1. 3. 8.) is thought by not a few, to have given some
handle to the doctrine of passive obedience and notn-
resistance.'*

Indeed, the lawyers of almost all the states of Europe
represent kings as legislators: and we know, that, in
the dictionaries of many, legislative and unlimited pow-
er are synonimous terms. To unlimited power, the cor-
relative is passive obedience.

Even Baron de Wolfius, the late celebrated philoso*
pher of Hall, lays down propositions concerning patri*
monial kingdoms, without rejecting or centrsMiicUng a
distinction, so injurious to the freedom and the rights
of men.

Domat, in his book on the civil law, derives the
power of govemours from divine authority. ** It is always
he (God) who places them in the seat of authority : it is
from him alone that they derive all the power and autho-
rity that they have ; and it is the ministry of his justice
that is committed to them. And seeing it is God him-
self whom they represent, in the rank which raiees them
above others; he will have them to be ccmsidered as
holding his place in their functions. And it is for t|u8
reason, that he himself gives the name of gods .to those.

LECTURlCS ON tAW. 81

to whom he communicates the right of governing and
judging men.*' *

To diminish the force of the foregoing citation*, it
may be said, that, in all probability, Le^vis the four-^
teenth-— and the same may foe said of other princes
equally ignorant-— ^ntver read the tragedies of iEschylus,
nor the history of Gregory of Tours, It is highly pro-
bable that he never did: but it is equally probable, that
their sentiments were known in his court, and found
the way, through the channels of flattery, to the royal
ear. But the writings of Grotius must have been well
known in France, and probably to Lewis the fourteenth
himself. This very book . of the Bights of War and
Peace was dedicated to his father, Lewis the thir-
teenth ; and its author, we are told, had credit with some
of the ministers of that prince.

Every plausible notion in favour of arbitrary power,
appearing in a respectable dress, and introduced by an
influential patrcm, is received with eagerness, protected
with vigilance, and diffused with solicitude, by an arbi-
trary government. The consequence is, that, in such a
government, political prejudices are last of all, if ever,
overcome or eradicated.

But these doctrines, it may be replied, are not now
believed, even in France. But they have been believed
^-4hey have been believed, even in Prance, to the sla-
very and misery of millions. 'And if, happily, they are
not still believed there ; unfortunately, they are still be-
lieved m other countries.

"" 1. Domat £SII.

TOL. I. If

/

a% LBCTVUEII ON LAW.

But I ask — ^why shojuld they be believed atall I 1 9ak
further: if they are not, and ought not to be believed;
why is their principle suflFered to lie latent and lurking 9i
tile root of the science of law? Why ia that principle
continued a, part of the very definition of law ?

The pestilent seed may seem, at present, to have lotf
its vegetating power : but an unfriendly season a&d a
rank soil may still revive it* It ought Uk be finally ex-
tirpated* It has, even within our own remembrance,
done muqh real mischief. The position, that law is bh
separably attached to superiour power,, w^^ the political
weapcm used^ with the greatest force and the gresU;est
skill, in favour of the despotick claims of Great BritaiB
over the American colonies. Of this, the most striking
proofs will appear hereafter* Let me, at present, adopt
the sentiments expressed, on a similar subject, by Vattd*,
^^ If the base flatterers of despotick power rise up against
my principles ; I shall have, on my side, thct^ friend of
laws, the true qitizen,. and the virtuous, nian*" "^

Let us conclude our observations upon this hypo^^»i
concerning the origin of sovereignty, by suggestingi
that were it as solid as it is unsound- ii^ specidation, it
would be wholly visionary and useless in practioe.-
Where would minions and courtly flatterers find the ob»
ytctSj to which thc^y could, even with courtly dec^cy,
ascribe superiour talents, superiour virtue, or a superiour
nature, so as to entitle them, even on their own prittci*
pies, to legislaticKi and government ?

We have now examined the inherent, qualities,, whidh
have been alleged as sufficient to entitle, to the right aad

w Vattel Pref. 14.

LtcTUftts oir LAlr. As

idflice of legislation, thtt sUperiour, whose mttt^position
Is coBsidered as essential to a law. We have weighed
them in the balanee, ftad we have found them wanting.

If this supefiour ctlnnbt rest a tide on any inherent
qualities ; the qualities, which constitute his title, if any
title he has, must be such as are derivative* If deriva*
tive ; they must be derived either from a source that is
human, or from a source that is divine. ^^ Over a whote
grand mukitude," says the judicious ^Hooker, ^^ consist*
mg of maiiy families, impossible it is, that any should
have complete lawful power, but by consent of men, or
by immediate appointment of God." We will consider
ihose sources Separately.

Hx}v^ is tbi$ superiour constituted by human authori*
ty ? How far does his superiority extend ? Over whom
is it exercised ? Can any person or power, appointed by
human authority, be superiour to those by whom he is
appointed^ and so form a necessary and essential part in
the deinitioh of a law ?

On these questions, a profound, I will not say a sus*
{Aekms silence i» obAerved. By the Author of the Com-
mentaries, this superiour is announced in a very ques*
tionable shape. We can neither tell who he is, nor
whence he comes. "When society is once formed, go-
vernment ifesults of course" — I use the words ^ of the
Commentary — ^**as necessary to preserve and to keep
that society in order. Unless some superiour be consti-
t^ed, M^hose comftiands and decisions all the members
are bound to obey, they would stUl remain as in a state

' H<k)k«r. W K s. 10. p. I«. r i,m, Cenf. 48.

■»

M I.«CTU«15« 0ir LAW*

of natiffe, without any judge upon em-th to define their

several r'ghts, and rqdress their several wroi^. But as

all the members of the aocie^ are naturally equal, H

may be asked**<— 'what question nfay be aaked? The

most natural question, that occurs to me, is-*— how is

this superiour, without whom, there ;can, be nO law, with*

out whom there can be no judge upon earth*— -how is

this superiour to be constituted i This is the question^

which, on this occasion, I would expect to see f)roposed)

this is the question, to which I would expect to hear aa

answer. But how suddenly, is the scene shifted ! IniMa4

of the awful insignia of superiority, to which our

viejv was just now directed, the mild emblons of con^

fidence make their appearance. The pers<m annoimced

was a dread superiour : but the person introduced is a

humble trustee. For, to proceed, ^4t may be asked,

in whose hands are the reins of govemmeieft to be in*

trusted ?^^

t

I very well know how .** a society once formed** con-
stitute a trustee : but I am yet to learn, and the Com-
mentator has not yet informed me, how this society can
constitute their superiour. Locke somewhere says that
^' no one can confer more power on another, than he poi*
sesses himself.'* f

If the information, how a superiour is appointed, be
given in any other part of the valuable Commentariel^j
it has escaped 'my notice, or my memory. Indeed it
has been remarked by his successour in the chair of law,
that .Sir William BIacks:tone ^^ fieclines speaking of tl^
origin of government." *

s I^k. Gov. p. 2. 8. 6. a £L Jar. SS

LSCT17|l£8 OK LAW. 85

The question recurs— ^how is this superiour constitu-
ted by human authority i Is he constituted by a law f If
he is, that law, at least, must be made without a superiour ;
tor by that law the superiour is constituted. If there can
l>e no law without a superiour, then the institution of a
superiour, by human authority, must be made in some
(»cher manner than by a law. In what other manner can
human authority be exerted ? Shall we say, that it may
be exerted in a covenant or an engagement ? Let us say,
for we may say justly, that it may. Let us suppose the
auth(»:ityto be exerted, and the covenant or engage-
ment to be made. StiU the question recurs— -can this
authority so exerted, can this covenant or engagement
so made, produce a superiour ?

If he is now entitled to that appellation, he must be
so by virtue of some thing, which he has received. But
has he received more than was given I Could more be
given than those, who gave it, possessed ?

We can form clear conceptions of authority, original
and derived, entire and divided into parts ; but we have
no clear conceptions how the parts can become greater
than the whole ; nor how authority, that is derived, can
become superiour to that authority, from which the de-
rivation is made.

If these observations are well founded; it will be
dificult-^perhaps we may say, impossible — to account
for the institution of a superiour by human authority.

Is there any other human source, from which Supe-
riority can spring ? 'Tis thought there is : His thought
that human submission can effectuate a purpose, for t|xe

86 L&CTUSSS 6m LAW.

accomidishment of which human aadiorit^liaa been found
to be unavailing*

And is it come to this ! Must submission to an equal
be the yoke, under irhich we must pass, before we can
diffuse the mild power, or participate in the benign inSxi*
ence of law? If such is, indeed, our fate, let resignation
be our aim : but before we resign ourselves, let us exa*
mine whether our fate be so hard.

That I may be able to convey a just and full repre^
sentation of opinions, which have been entertained on
this subject, I shall give an abstract of the manner, in
which PufFendorff has reasoned coni^eming it, in his
chapter on the generation of civil sovereignty.

His object is,, " to examine whence that sovereignty
or supreme command, which appears in every state, and
which, as a kind of soul, informs, enlivens, and moves
the publick body, is immediately produced.*'

In this inquiry, he supposes that civil authority re*
quires natural strength and a title. ** Both these requi-
sites," says he, " immediately flow from those pacts, by
which the state is united and subsists." With regard
to the former — ^natural strength — ^he observes, *' that
since all the members of the state, in submitting their
wills to the will of a single director; did, at the same
time, thereby oblige themselves to nonresistance, or to
obey him in all his desires and endeavours of applying
their strength and wealth to the good of the publick ; it
appears that he, who holds the sovereign rule, is posses-
sed of sufficient force to compel the discharge ' df thd
injunctions, which he lays."

• I

LSCTUR£S ON LAW. S7 I

I

**So, likewise," adds he, "the same covenant affords a
fall and easy title, by which the sovereignty appears to
be established, not upon violence, but in a lawful manner,
upon the voluntary consent and subjection of the respec^
tive members."

" This, then," continues he, " is the nearest and imme-
diate cause, from which sovereign authority, as a moral
quality, doth result.. For if we suppose submission m
one party, and, in another, the acceptance of that sub*
mission ; there accrues, presently, to the latter, a right
qf imposing commands on the former ; which is what
we term sovereignty or rule. And as, by private con-
tract, the right of any thing which we possess, so, by
submission^ the right to dispose of our strength and owe
liberty of acting, may be conveyed to another."

He illustrates this/ immediate cause of sovereign
authority, by the following instance. " If any person
should, voluntarily and upon covenant deliver himse}f to
me in servitude, he thereby really confers on me the
power of a master." *' Against which way of arguing, to
object the vu%ar maxim, quod quis non habet^ non potest
in alterum transferrcy^ ia buta piece of trifling, ignor*

ance." *^

* Puff. b. 7. <:. 3. s. 1. p. 654 65$.

« All this, it is true, has been done, in fact. This act of legal
suicide has been often perpetrated ; and, in the history of some
periods, we find the prescribed form, by which liberty was extin-
guished-r-a form truly congenial with the transactioB-*& fona
expressed in terms die most disgraceful to the dignity of man. << Li*
tentiam habeatis, mihi qualemcunque volueritis disciplinam ponere^
vtl venumdare, ant quod vobis placuerit de me fsicere." (6. Gibbon

68 LECTURES OH LAW.

Shall we, for a moment, suppose all this to be done ?
What is left to the people ? Nothing. What are they ?
Slaves. What will be their portion ? That of the beasts
-^instinct, compliance, and punishment. So true it is?
that in the attempt to make one person more than man,
millions must be made less«

We now see the price, at which law must be purchased ;
for we see the terms, oii which a superiour, of- such
absolute necessity to a law, is constituted, according to
the hypothesis, of which I have given an account. We
see the covenants which must be entered into, the consent
which must be given, the submission which must be
made, the subjection which must be undergone, the state,
analogous to servitude, which must be supposed, before
this system of superiority can be completed. Has this
been always done — must this be always done, in every
state, where law is known or felt ?

Without examining its incongruity with reason, with
freedom, and with fact ; without insisting on the incohe-
rence of the parts, and the unsoundness of the whole, I
shall, again, for a moment, take it all for granted : and,
on that supposition, I shall put the question— -Is even
all this sufficient to constitute a superiour ? Is it in the
power of the meanest to prostitute, any more than it is
in the power of the greatest to delegate, what he does not

361. cites Marcalf. Formul.) But these periods were the periods
which mtroducfd and established the feudal law. " The majestj
of the Roman law protected the liberty of the citizen against his
own distress or despair." 6. Gibbon. 360.

LECTURES OH LAW. 89

#

possess?^ The arguments, therefore, which we used
with regard to the appointment of a superiour by humaxi,
authority, will equally apply to his appointment by human
submission. The manner may be different : the result
^rill be the same*

Indeed, the author of this system betrays a secret
consciousness, that it is too weak and too disjointed to
stand without an extrinsick support. ^^ Yet still," says
he, ^^ to procure to the supreme command an especial
efficacy, and a sacred respect, there is need of anothet
additional principle, besides the submission of the sub-
jects. And therefore he who affirms sovereignty to result
immediately from compact, doth not, in the least, detract
from the «acr^ J character of civil government ; or main-
tain that princes bear rule, by human right onlyj and not
by divine." •

It deserves remark, that, in this passage, Puffendorff
assumes the divine right of princes to bear rule, as an
admitted principle ; and seems only solicitous to show,
that the account, which he has given, of the origin
of sovereignty, is not inconsistent with their sacred
character.

^ Let individuals, in any number whatever, become severally and
successively subject to one man, they are all, in that case, nothing
more than master and slaves ; they are not a people governed by
thdr chief; they are an aggregate, if you will ; but they do not form
an association ; there subsists among them neither commonwealth
nor body politick. Such a superiour, though he should become
master of half the world, would be still a private person, and his
interest, separate and distinct from that of his people, would be still
no mere than a private interest Rousseau's Orig. Comp« 1^. IS.

e Pu£ ^s. b. 7. c. 3. s. 1.-^% BurL 39.
VOL. r. N
LSGTUHeS OH LAW.

After some furdier observatioiis with regard to th&
source of government and the cause of sovereignty, the
author acknowledges, that there is very little differoice^
between his sentiments on the subject, and those of
Boeder. What Bcccler's sentiments were, we learn fromr
the account given of them by our author. *'The
supreme authority," ^ says Boeder, ^^ is not to be derived
from the bare act of man, but from the command of C>od,
and from the law of nature ; or from such an act of mea,
by which the law of nature was: followed and obe3^d.^

»f

So far PuffendoriF seems willing to go. He adopts n
kind of compromising principle* He founds the right of
die sovereign immediately upon the submission <^ the
subjects ; but, to complete the efficacy of supreme com«
mand, he calls in the aid of ah additional princijde, the
sacred character of civil government, and the divine
right of princes to bear rule. Further he was unwilling
to proceed.

It has been often the fate of a compromise betweed
two parties, that it has given entire satisfaction to neither.
Such has been the fate of that adopted by PuiFendorffl
Some will certainly think, that he has given too much
countenance to the claim, which princes have boldly
made, of a divine right to rule. Others have thought^
that, into his composition of a sovereign, he has infused
too great a proportion of human authority. They pursue
the source of sovereignty, further than he is willing to
accompany them, and maintain, that it is the Supreme
Being, who confers immediately the supreme power
on princes, without the intervention or concurrence of
man.

^PQC655.b.7.c.3.8.1.

\
I

LiCCTUllXS OW LAW. #1

This doctrine, in some countries^ and at tome periods,
faais been carried,' and is still carried, to a very extrava-
gant height, and has been supported and propagated,
and still is supported and propagated, with uncbm*
men zeal. It has been, and still is, a favourite at
courts; and has been, and still is, treated with every
appearance of profound respect by courtiers, and, in
too many instances, by philosophers and by statesmen,
who have imitated, and still imitate courtiers in their
practice of the slavish art. In the reign of James the
second, " the immediate emanation of divine authority**
was introduced on every occasion, and ingrafted, often
with the strangest impropriety, -on every subject. Even
in the present century, a book has been burnt by the
hangman, because its author maintained, ^^ that God is
not the immediate cause of sovereignty." s

It cannot escape observation, that, in one particular,
those who carry this doctrine the furthest, "seem to
challenge, with some success, the palm of coia^sistency
from those, who refuse to accompany thenr. TBoth enter-
tain the same sentiments— -and they are certainly over-
charged ones— concerning sovereignty and superiority.
Thus far they march together. But here, one division
halt. The other proceed, and, looking back on those
behind them, demand, why, having gone so far, they
refuse to accomplish the journey. They insist, that all
human causes are inadequate to the production of thai
superiority or sovereignty, about the august and sacred
character of which they are both agreed. They say^^
diat neither particular men, nor a multitude of men, are
themselves possessed of this sovereignty or superiority;
sa\d that, therefore, they cannot confer it on the prince.

s Puff 656. note to b. T. c. 3. s. 3.

92 Z.SCTUIIS8 OK LAir*

The consequence is, that, as this superiority is ad0atlc4
to exist, and ^as it cannot be conferred by naen, it must
derive its origin from a higher source.

It is in this manner that Domat reas<ms concerning
the origin of sovereignty and government* ^^ As there
is none but God alone who is the natural sovereign of
man ; so it is likewise from him that .they who govern
derive all their power and authority. It is one of the
ceremonies in the coronation of the kings of France,
J|» ' ibr them to take the sword from the altar; thereby to de«

^ note, that it is immediately from the hand of God that

they derive the sovereign power, of which the sword is
the principal emblem."^

In the dame train of sentiment, Bishop Taylor^ ob-
serves, " that the legislative or supreme power is not the
servant of the people, but the minister, the trustee,, and
the representative of God : that all just human power ia
given from above, not from beneath ; from God, not,
from the people.'*

I

Indeed, on the principle of superiority, Caligula's
reasoning was concise and conclusive. ^* If I am only
a man, my subjects are something less : if they are men,
I am something more.^J

The answer to the foregoing reasoning appears to mc
to be more ingenious than solid, and to be productive of
amusement, rather than of conviction. I shall deliver it
from Burlaraaqui, who, on this subject, has followed the

h 2. Domat 2^8, 299. » Rule of Conscience 4Q§,

3 Rous. Or. Com 6.

LECTURES OM LAW. 9Z

epinions of PuiFendorff* ^^This argument," says he,
^^ proves nothing. It is true, that neither each member of
the society, nor the whole multitude collected, are for-
xtuJly invested with the supreme authority ; but it is suffi-
eient that they possess it virtually ; that is, that they have
^vithln themselves all that is necessary to enable them,
by the concurrence of their free will and consent, to
produce it in the sovereign. Since every individual has
■SL natural right of disposing of his own natural freedom,
according as he thinks proper ; why should he not have
a power of transferring to another, that right which he
has of directing himself? Now is it not manifest, that,
if all the members of the society agree to transfer this
right to one of their fellow members, this cession will be
the nearest and immediate cause of sovereignty ? It is,
therefore, evident, that there are, in each individual,
the seeds, as it were, of the supreme power. The case
is here very near the same, as in that of several voices
collected together, which, by their tlnion, produce
a harmony, that was not to be found separately in
cach."^

The metaphors from vegetation and musick may il-
lustrate and please ; but they cannot prove nor convince.
The notion of virtual sovereignty is as unsatisfactory tq
me, on this occasion, as that of virtual representation has
been, on many others. Indeed, I see but little differ*
ence between a claim to derive from another that, which
he is willing to give, but of which he is not possessed,
and a claim to derive from him that, which he posses-
ses, but which he has not given, and will not give.

k S. BorL 41, 43.

M LECTlTItES OK LAW.

Besides ; let me repeat the questions, which I for-
merly put.— Have these degrading steps been always
taken ? must they be always taken, in every state, where
law is known or felt ? For let it not be forgotten^ that
superiority is introduced as a necessary part of die defi*
iiition of law.

I will not attempt to paint the hideous eonsequencw
that have been drawn, nor the still more hideous practices
that have claimed impunity, indulgence, and even sane*
tion, from the pretended principle of the divme right oi
princes. Absolute, unlimited, and indefeasible power,
nonresistance, passive obedience, tyranny, slavery, and
misery walk in its train.

On this subject — ►its^importance cannot be overrated
^^—let us receive instruction from a well informed and s
well experienced master-— from one, who, probably, io
some periods of his life, had felt what he so feelingly
describes — ^from one, who had been bred to the trade
of a prince, and who had been perfectly initiated in aB
the mysteries of the profession — from the late Frederick
of Prussia.

" If my reflections," says he, " shall be fortunate enough
to reach the ears of some princes, they will find among
them certain truths, which they never would have heard
from the lips of their courtiers and flatterers. Perhaps
they will be struck with astonishment, to see such truths
placed, by their side, on the throne. But it is time,
tliat, at last, they should learn, that their false principles
are the most empoisoned source-— /a source ia plus en^
poisonec'-'^i the calankities of Em-ope.

i^

LECT0R56 ON LAW. 95

*' Here is the errour of the greatest part of princes.
They believe that God has expressly, and from a parti-
cular attention to their grandeur, their happiness, and
their pride, formed their subjects for no other purpose^
than to be the ministers and instruments of their un«>
bridled passions. As the principle, from which they set
out, is false ; the consequences cannot be otherwise than
infinitely pernicious. Hence the unregulatcfd pasaioa
for false glory— hence the inflamed desire of conquest-*-
hence the oppressions laid upon the people*— hence the
indcdence and dissipation of princes*— hence the^ir ambi<*
tton, their injustice, their inhumanity, their tyranny-—
hence, in short, all those vices, which degrade the na*
tare of man.

*' H they would disrobe themselves of these erronc*
eus opinions ; if they would ascend to the true origin of
their appointment ; they would see, that their elevation
and rank, of which they are so jealous, are, indeed, no*
tiling else than the work of the people ; they would see,
that the myriads of men, placed under their Care, have
not made themselves the slaves of one single man, with
a view to render him more powerful and more formida*
ble ; have not submitted themselves to a fellow citisen^
In order to become the sport of his fancies, and the mar-
tyrs of his caprice ; but have chosen, from among them*
selves, the man, whom they bcKeved to be the most
just, that he might govern them; the best, that he
' might supply the place of a father ; the most humane,
that he might compassionate and relieve their misfor-
tunes; the most valiant, that he might defend them
against their enemies ;i the most wise^ that he might not
engage them inconsiderately in ruinous and destructive
wars ; in one w^d, the man the most prop^e^ to reprer

96 tECTURSS ON LAW.

sent the body of thd state, and in whom the sofvereigii
power might become a bulwark to justice and to the laws^
and not an engine, by the force of which tyranny miglit
be exercised, and crimes might be committed with im^
punity.

^^ This principle being once established, prince*
would avoid the two rocks, which, in all ages; have prcv
duced the ruin of empires, and distraction in the politi-
cal world — ^ungovemed ambition, and a listless inatten-
tion to affairs." * ^^ They would often reflect that they
are men, as well as the least of their subjects — that if
they are the first judges, the first generals, the first fi-
nanciers, the first ministers of society ; they are so, for
the purpose of fulfilling the duties, which those names
import. They will reflect, that they iore o&Iy the first
servants of the state, bound to act with the same inte^
grity, the same caution, and the same entire disinterest-
edness, as if, at every moment, they were to render an
account of their administration to the citizens.""^

. I will not charge to the authors, whose opinions I
have examined, all the consequences that have been
drawn, practically as well as theoretically, from thek
principles. From their principles, however^ admitted
by themselves without due caution and scrutiny, thos(e
consequences have been drawn by others, and-drawntoo
accurately and too successfully for the peace, liberty, and
happiness of men.

After all, I am much inclined, for the honour of hu-
man nature, to believe, that all this doctrine concerning

1 K. Prus. works* v. 6. p. 46. 50. „ Id.p.d3.84.

t£CTU|lS8 .OK LAW. 97

»

the divine right of kiiigs was, at first, encouraged and
cherished by many, from motives, mistaken certainly,
but pardonable, and even laudable i and that it was in-
tended not so much to introduce the tyranny of princes,
a& to form a barrier against the tyranny of priests.

One of them^ at the head of a numerous, a formida-
ble, and a well disciplined phalanx, claimed to be the
Almighty's vicegerent upon earth ; claimed the power of
deposing kings, disposing crowns, releasing subjects
from their allegiance, and overruling the whole trans*
actions of the christian world. Superstition and ignor
ranee dreaded, but could not oppose, the presumptuous
claim. The Pope had obtained, what Archimedes want*
cd, another world, oa which he placed his ecclesiastical
machinery i and it was no wonder that he moved this ac«
cording to his will and pleasure. Princes and poten«
tatesy states and kingdoms were prostrate before him.
JEyery thing human was obliged to bend under the in*
cumbent pressure of divine control. t

It is not impr(rf)able, that, in this disagreeable predi*
cament, the divine right of kings was considered as the
oi^ principle, which could he opposed to the claims of
the papal throne ; and as the only means, which could
preserve the civil, from being swallowed by the ecclesi-
astical powers.

.This conjecture receives a degree of pipbability from
a fact, which is mentioned in the history of France.

In a^ ^neral assembly of the states of the kingdom,
it waa proposed to canonize this position-^^' that kings
derive their authority immediately from God." That

VOL. I. o

w

todi a |>r6p6(iiidon uTas made in «b asseltiMy df the MaHMr,
die most poptilftr body Inown in the kingdaui) wiB^ tt^
doubt, occasion surprise. Tlti^ surprise will be kl«
(Greyed, when it is mentibned, thkt the j^ r g pOAh i o ti iHM
patronized by the most popular part df that assettAly : H
was the third estate, which wished to pasff it into a law.
But '^rvery thing is naturaBy aitd easily aceouhted for,
when it is itientiohed ftcr&er^ diat dte priacipA object,
^hich the thkd estate had in riew by tbis measut-js^ itas
t6 secure the sovereign authority from the dett^std^
maxima of th6se, who made it depend ripon lite ^eipe,
l^y living him a power of abftblvittg «ubje<^ ftHtth llMt
<bath of ^rileg^ance, and au&orizing Aose #lio 'aasasaS^
liated their princes as heretieks. *

The proposal did not pass itito a lti# ; becauHis, IttlKMf;
t>ther reasons, the question was thought proper ibr At
determination of the schools. But this much rii^ aaiil^
be ihftrrfed, that whjlt was thought proper by the tfciri
estate to be passed into a law, would be gteet^sfiy rb-
ceived through the kingdom, as popular and wholesome
doctrine.

m

I confess inyself pleas^ with indull^ing '^ tb^if«(S
ture I have mentioned.

When I entered upon the disquisition of the doctMift
of a superiour as necessary to the very definition of law;
i aaid, that, if I was not mistaken, this notion dJF supe-
riorly contained the germ of die divine right of pi'hifee^
to rule, and of the corresponding obligation on the peo-
ple im^ititly to obey. It m«iy now be soen %li||iii€l' or
not I hurt been mistaken I smd, if I iHive 9i^%fe«^a^

" PttS656.n.

/ ^' *» • ••.

fMsfH) b a^^TH how uAportsuit it i% care&Uy a&d pa^
%ifinify to ienftmk^ 4 fine principle ; to trace it, with at-
temiM, 10 it9 higheft prisiQ > and to pursue jit, withper«
severance, to its moat reiapte cwaequ^ncea, I have ^
served tlus c<Muluct with regard to the principle in ques*
tim» The resiill, I think, ha« heen^ that, as to human
laws, the nf^wtk of a aup^mur ia a iioti^n i^oAeceas^ry,
nmfouiided^ and dangerous ; a notion uoycpo^i^tf nt wi^
ahe genuine a^stiem of hnmap wtbority*

Now Aat the wiU of a superipur is di^carda^^ as 9^
Mpro^r principle of obU^ioasi in human laws, it is ni^
tural to aak^n-What principle shall be introducfd in its
place ? In its place I introduc^-^-the consent of those
iriio^obedi^cethe law requires. This I conceive to
be thfi ir^e oripn o£ the obligation of hnman laws*
This principle I ahall view pn ^ it3 sides ; I shall e^^
nmsne k hastoricaUy and legaUy ; I shall consider it as a
quaatictfi of theoty, and a^ a qu^tioa of fact.

Let us asoend to the first ages of societies. Customs,
for a long time, were the only laws known among them.
The JUycians "^ had no written laws j they were governed
eadrely by customs* Among the ancient Britons also,
no written laws were known : they wereruled by the tra^
diticmary-»-^and if traditimary, probably, the customa**
«y«r-law9of the Druids*

Now custom is, of itself, intrinsick evidence of con-
aent* Mow was a custom introduced ? By voluntary
adoption. How did it become general i By the in-
stances of vbluntary adoption being increased. How
did it bftp;cin%j[Jaj»)tips ? fiy voluntary and satisfactory ea^;-

« 1. Gof . Or. Laws. 9w

100 ' LECTUitBS OH tAir*

perience, which ratified and confirmed what • volumny
adoption had introduced. In the introductkm, ui die
extension, in the continuance of custontarjr law, wefitti

the operations of consent universatty {^dominant.

► .- ' . • .• '

^' Customs," in the striking and pictttiresque langiiafe
of my Lord Bacon, '^are laws written in living tsUes;^''
In regidations of justice and of government, they have
been more effectual than the best written laws. The
Romans, in their happy periods of liberty, paid gf^t
regard to customary law. Let me mention, in one
word, every thing that can enforce my sentiments.: the
common law of England is a ciutomary law.

Among die earliest, among like freest, among the
most improved nations of the world, .we fln4 a species
of law prevailing, which carried, in its bosom^ inieimal
evidence of consent. History, therefore^ bears a strong
and a uniform testimony in favour of this specie* of
law. . .

Let us consult the sentiments^ as well as the history
of the ancients. I find a charge against them oa tUs
subject — ^^ that they were not accurate enough in their
expressions ; because they frequently applied to lasra
the name at -common {Agreements J^^ ' Thfs, it is ac-
knowledged, they do alnciost every where in thieir frrir

P 4. Ld. Bac 5.

4 Mens, et Janimus, et consilium, et senteatia civitatis posiU
est in legibus. Ut corpora nostra sine mente ; ttc civitas sine lege,
suis partibus, ut nervis, ac sanguine, et membris, uti non potest
Legum niinistri, magistratus ; leguin interpretes, judices : legum
denique idcirco onuies scrvi sumus, ut liberi esse possimos. Cicero
pro Cluen. c 53.

*• Puff.59.b.l.c.6.s.r..

« LSCTU&ES Oil lAW. lOt

^tigs; He, however, who accuses the ancient writers
of inaccuracy in expression, ought himself to1>e consum*
Doately accurate. ^ Let those teach others, who them*
selves excel." Whether the Baron PuffendoriF was
entided to be a teacher in this particular, we stay not to
teicflinine. - It is of more consequence to attend to the
^g;romid of his accusation.

One reas(^, why he urges their expressions to be
itiaccurate, is, that *^ neither the divine positive laws, nor
the laws of nature had their rise from the agreement of
men." All ^s is, at once, admitted ; but the present
disquisition relates only to laws that are human. What
is said with reg^d to them f With regard to them it is
said, that ^^the Grecians, as in their other pcditick
JB^edies, so in this too, had an eye to their own demo-
cratical governments ; in which, because the laws were
made upon the proposid of the magistrate, with the
knowledge, and by the command, of the people, and so,
as it were, in the way of bavgain and stipulation ; they
gave them the name of covenants and agreements."

*

I am now unsdlicitous to repel the accusation : it
seems, it was conceived to arise from a reference, by the
ancients, to their dcfmocratical governments. Let them
be called covenants, or agreements, or bargains, or stipu-
lations, or any thing similar to any of those, still I am
satisfied ^ , for still every thing mentioned, and every
thing similar to every thing mentioned, imports consent.
Here history and law combine their evidence in support
of consent.

Law has been denominated " a general convention of
the citizens:" such is the definition of it in the Digest:

tOI& JL£CT17)C£S OK I.4W* «

for the Romaa lav vas not, in every age of Romei tkt
law of ^avery. A similar luode of e^^remim liaa b^o
loag used in England. Magna ChatU waai»aiL& ^^ by ifae

common assent of aU the realnu'^ *

Let us listen to the judicious and excelltnt Hqfiiicr :
what he says always conveys instructimu ^ The lawful
power of making laws to command whole politick societies
of men, belongeth so properly unto the same entire
societies, that for any prince or potetttnte of what kia^
soever upon earth, to exercise the same of hinsseK^ ml
not either by express^ commission immediate iwt
personally received from God, or eke by authority
derived, at the first, from their cmisent, upoft whoH
persons they impose laws; it is no better tkuMi wn
t)^ranny. Laws they are not, therefore, which ptiUid
approbation hath^not made so.'*' ^^Lawshumaiii ofwbt^
kind soever, are available by constoti"'

My Lord Shaftesbury, who formed Us tmH ^
judgment upon ancient writers and ancient opinioiK)
delivers it as his sentiment, ^* That no people in a civil
state can possibly be free, wheh they are ofherlHae
governed, than by such laws as jthcy AeKmelves- ha»<}
constituted, or to which they have freely given tonsent."'

This subject will receive peculiar illustriitipn tad
importance, when we come to consider the de&icripfioii
and characters of municipal law. I will not anitidpMc
here what will be introduced Uiere with much greater
propriety and force.

• SttUiv; Pref. 18. ' Hooker, b. I. % la {>. 19<
«W.p.20. * 3. Shaft 312.

LEGTVU&B Oir LAW« lOS

Of law there are dUfe^ent kinds. AU^ however, mMf
be anfanged in two different classeii. 1. Divine* 2. Hu*
man laws. Tlie descriptive epithets employed denote,
that die former have God, the. latter, man, for their
autlior*

The laws of God may be divided into the following
species*

«

I. That law, the book of which we ore neither able nor
worthy to open. Of this law, the author and observer
ia God. He is a law to himself, as well as to all created
things. This law we may name the ^4aw eternal*

w

II. That law, which is made for angels and the spirits
of the jnst made, perfect. This may be called the ^^ law
eeUstiaL" This law, and the glorious state for which
it 18 adq>ted, we see, at present, but darkly and as through
a glass: but hereafter we shall see even as we are seen;
and shall know even as we are known. From the wisdom
H&d the goodness of the adorable Author and Preserver
of the universe, we are justified In concluding, that the
celestial^and perfect state is governed, as all other thinga

are, by his established laws. What those laws are, it is

*

not yet given us to know ; but on one truth we may rely
frith sure and certain confidence-o-diose laws are wise and
• good. For an«»tfaer truth we have infallible authority —
those laws are strictly obeyed : ^^ In heaven his wUl is
done."

III. That law, by which the irrational and iniwwmatr
parts of the crediioa are governed. The great Creator
of all things ha» established general .and fixed nilest
Ustat&ai^ tD which all the fhttoadcna of the material

t04 LECTCBj;^ ON LAW.

universe are. produced and regulated. These rules arr
usually denominated l$uvs of nature. The s<;iiencef whicb
has those laws for its object, is distinguished by the n^Une
of natural philosophy. It is so^ictimes called, the
philosophy of body. Of this science, there are numeioua
branches.

IV. That law, which God has made for man in his
present state ; that law, which is communicated to us by
reason and conscience, the divine m<mitors within. ub^
and by the sacred oracles, the divine monitors without us*
This law has undergone several subdivisions, and has-
been known by distinct appellations, according to die
different ways in which it has been promulgated, and the
diiferent objects which it respects.

As promulgated by reasion and the mciral sense, it hat
been called natural ; as promulgated by the holy scriptures,
it has been called revealed law.

As addressed to men, it has been denominated the law
of nature ; as addressed to poUfical societies, it has been
denominated the law of natipns. ,

But it should always be remembered, that this law,
natural or revealed, made for m^i or £or natioaa, flows
from the same divine source : it is the law of God..

Nature, or, to speak more properly, the Author of
nature, has done much for us ; but it is his gracious
appointment and will, that we should also do much for
ourselves. What we do, indeed, must be founded on
whiat he has done ; and ^e defici^icies of our lows mu8t
be supplied by thrpcrfetBtions <if his. Human loir must

LECTURES ON LAW. 105

rest its auAorit}'', ultimate^, upon the authority of that
law^ -which is 4ivine.

Of that law, the following are maxima— -that no injury
should be done— -that a lawful engagement, voluntarily
made, should be faithfully fulfilled. We now see the
deep and the solid foundations of human law.

It is of twp species. 1. That which a political society
makes for-itself. This is municipal law. 2. That which
two or more political societies make for themselves. This
is tkc voluntary law of nations.

In all these species of law— ^the law eternal — the law
celestial — the law natural — rthe divine law, as it respects
men and nations— the human law, as it also respects men
and nsUson^— man is dee]^y and intimately concerned.
Of ail these species pf law, therefore, the knowledge must ^
be most important to man.

Those parts of natural philosophy, which more imfme-
diately relate to the human body, are appropriated to the
profession of physick.

The law eternal, the law celestial, and this law divine,
as they s»re disclosed by that revelation, which has
brought life and immortality to light, are the more pecu*
Uar objects of the profession of divinity. ji*

The law of nature, the law of nations, and the mu-
nicipal law form die objects of the profession of law.

From this short, but plain and^ I hope, just state*
ment of things, we perceive a princi^e of connexi*

VOL, I# F

10§

I.rG1iril£# OV £AV»

on beiire^ aU ti^ Earned} {utsfiessioiis ; bu^ eflpedalljr
between the two last mentioned. Far froi^i being ri^cads
or enemies, religion and law are twin sisters, friends^
aBd mutual assiatanta. Indeed, tfaeae two sci^Bces^ ran
inlo each other* The divine law, as diMoireiredbjr* rea-
son aand' the moral sense^ fiunna aneaaen^ial par]b of hc^

I

From this statement of things, we also perceive how |
important and dignified the profession of the laew is,
when traced to its sources, and) viewed in its just ^sSbenU. \

The immediate objects of our attention^ ave, die Um
of nature, the law of nations, and the municipal law of
the United Slates, and of the several staites: which com-
pose the Union. It will not be forgoito^ th|i& the ecb-i
^titutione of the United Stfttosi, and of the< indiKidMl
states, form a capi^ part of their muaicipal biK. Qtk
lihe two first of these three great heads, I shaUbbe^n^
general. On the last, especiaftfr on thote ]pavta. of ^ k,
which comprehend the constitutions and piiblidi;*^law» I
shall be more pairtscular and miaats.

CHAPTER HI.

OF THE LAW OF NATURE.

J[n every ^-peiiod of our existence, in evety situation^ in
vrhkh we can be pbiced, much is to be .known, much is
to be done, much is to be enjoyed. But all that is to
be known, all that is to be done, all that is to be enjoyed,
liepeiids upon the proper exertion and direction of our
BCimeroto |)Owert. In this immense ocean of intelligence
mkd action, iu*e we left without a compass and without a
4hBXt i Is there no pole star, by which we may regulate
^Ar course i Has the aU-gradous and all* wise Author of
oar eidstence formed us for such great and such good
^ids ; and has he left us without a conductor to lead us
in the ^yay, by wiiich those ends may be attained? Has
be aaade.us capable ^fobseryitig a rule, and has he fur-
nished us with no rule, which we ought to observe ? Let
us examine these questions — for they are im^portant ones
-—with patience and with attention. Our labours will, in
all probability, be amply rep^. We shall probably iind
that, to direct the more important parts of our conduct,
dte bountiful GoveiHour of the universe has been gracx-
ously pleased to provide us with a law; and that, to direct

" I

108 LECTU&Efi OK LAW. .

the less important parts of it, he has made us capable of
providing a law for ourselves.

That our Creator has a supreme right to prescribe a
law for our conduct, and that we are under the most
perfect obligation to obey that law, are truths estabUshed
on the clearest and most solid principles.

In the course of our remarks on that part of Sir
William Blackstone's definition of law, which includes
the idea of a superiour as essential to it, we remarked^
with particular care, that it was only with regard to
human laws that we controverted the justi^ess or propri-
ety of that idea. It was incumbent on us to mark this
distinction particularly ; for with regard to laws which
are divine, they truly come from a superiour— from Him
who is supreme,

(
I

Between beings, who, in their nature, powers, Vki !
situation, are so perfectly equal, that nothing can be ]
ascribed to one, which is not applicable to the <«her, \
there can be neither superiority nor dependence. With I
regard 16 such beings, no reason can be assigned, why
any one should assume authority over others, whidi may
not, with equal propriety, be assigned, why each of those
others should assume authority over that one. To con-
stitute superiority and dependence, there must be an
essential difference of qualities, on which those relaliaiis
may be founded. *

Some allege, that the sole superiority of strength, or,
as they express it, an irresistible power, is the true foun-
dation of the right ,of prescribing laws. " This superi-

a 1. Burl. 82.

lECTtTRES ON lAW. 109

ority of power gives," say they, " a right of reigning, by ,
the impossibility, in which it places others, of resist*
ing him, who has so great an advantage over them." ^

Others derive the right of prescribing laws and impo-
smg obligations from superiour excellence of nature*
** This," say they, " not only renders a being indepen-
dent of those, who are of a nature inferiour to it ; but
leads us to believe, that the latter were made for the sake
of the formen" For a proof of this, they appeal to
the constitution of man. '^ Here," they tell us, " the
soul governs, as being the noblest part." " On the same
foundation," they add, " the empire of man over the
brute creation is built." ^

Others, again, say, that " properly speaking, there
is only one general source of superiority and obligation.
God is our creator: in him we live, and move, and have
our being : from him we have received* our intellectual
and our moral powers : he, as master of his own work>
can prescribe to it whatever rules to him shall seem meet.
Hence our dependence on our Creator : hence his abso-
lute power over us. This is the true source of all autho*
rity." ^

With regard to the first hypothesis, it is totally insuf*
ficient; nay, it is absolutely false. Because I cannot
resist, am I obliged to obey? Because another is posses-
sed of superiour force, am I bound to acknowledge his
will as the rule of my conduct ? Every obligation suppo-
ses niotives that influence the conscience and determine
the will, so that we should think it wrong not to obey,
even if resistance was in our power. But a person, who

fc 1. BurL 83. c M. 83. d id. 83. 87.

110 CfiCTURfiS Ott LAW.

alle^e& Only the law af the strongest, proposes wk> mativB
to influence the co&sciehce, or to determiiie the wiU*
Superiour force may re^^ide with predommtot maleTOf
lence. Has force, exerted for the purposes of malevo-
lence, a right to command I Can it impose an obizgalion
to obey ? No. Resistance to such force is a right $ and^
if resistance can prove effectual, it is adui^ al^o. Oti
^me occasions, all our efforts may, indeed, be useless;
and an attempt to resist would frustrate its own aim :
but, on such occasions, the exercise of resistance mij is
suspended; the right of resistance is not extinguished:
we may continue, for a time, under a constraint ; but
we come not under an obligation : we may suffer all tbe
external effects of superiour force ; but we feel not die
internal influence of superiour authority ? *

The second hypothesis has in it something plausible 4
but, on examination, it will not be found to be accunrte.
Whenever a being of superiour excellence is found, his
excellence, as well as every other truth, ought, on pro*
per occasions, to be acknowledged ; we will go fwther ;
it ought, as every thing excellent ought, to be esteemetd.
But must we go farther still? Is obedience the necessary
consequence of honest acknowledgment and just estfeemif
Here we must make a pause : we must make some in-
quiries befof'e we go forward. In what manner is this
being of superiour excellence connected with us i Whatt
are his dispositions with regard to us ? By what effects,
if by any, will his superiour excellence be displayed?
Will it be exerted for our happiness ; or, as to us, #]11
it not be exerted at all ? We acknowledge-*— we esteem
excellence; but till these questions are imswered^ W€

^ 1. Burl. 85. 86.

I<9GTUR]£8 ON LAW. HX

.ns>t Qtirselves ttni^r an obltgation to obey luf If
the (^imon of Epicurus conceming his divinities — that
they were absolutely indifferent to the happiness and
interests, of men — ^was admitted for a moment ; ^ the in-
ference . would unquestionably l^«-^that they were not
entitled to human obedience.

The third hypothesis contains a solemn truth, which
otfght to be examined with reverence and awe. It resolves
Ao supreme right of prescribing laws for our conduct,
and our indispensable duty of obeying those laws, into
the omnipptence of the Divinity* This omnipotence let
«» hundily adore. Were we to suppose-^^but the suppo-
sition cannot be made**-that infinite goodness could be
disjoined from almighty power — but we cannot*— must
iK>t proceed to the inference. No, it never can be drawn;
for from almighty power infinite goodness can never be
disjoined.

Let us join, in our weak conceptions, what sore inse-
parable in their incomprehensible Archetype — infinite
power^i^ite wisdom-^infinite goodness; and then
Hire shfdl see, in its resplendent glory, the supreme right
to rule : we shall feel the conscious sense of the perfect
obligation to obey.

His infinite power enforces his laws, and carries them
itAo full and effectual execution. His( infinite wisdom>
knows and chooses the fittest means for accomplishing^

f 1. Burl 86. 97,

g Epicurus re U^t, oratione relinquit deos. Deinde, si ma^inpie
talis est deas, ut nulla gratia, miUa bemiBum carkate teneatqr :
valeat Quid eniin dicam, propltius sit ? Cia. de Nat Deo. 1. 1. c 44.

112 LECtUREfi OK LA.W« ^

tlie ends which he proposes. His infinite goodness proM
poses such ends only as promote our felicity. By his
power, he is able to remove whatever may possibly
injure us, and to provide whatever is conducive to our
happiness. By his wisdom, he knows our nature, our
faculties, and our interests: he cannot be mistaken
in the designs, which he proposes, nor in the means,
which he employs to accomplish them. By his goodness,
he proposes our happiness : and to that end directs the
Operations of his power and wisdom. Indeed, to his
goodness alone we may trace the principle of his laws*
Being infinitely and eternally happy in himself^ hi^ good-
ness alone could move him to create us, and give us the
means of happiness. The same principle^ that moved his
creating, moves his governing power. The rule of his
government we shall find to be reduced to this one
paternal command — Let man pursue his own perfection
and happiness.

What an enrapturing view of the moral government
of the universe ! Over all, goodness infinite reigns, gui/ded
by unerring wisdom, and supported by almighty power.
What an instructive lesson to those who thinks ^d are
encouraged by their flatterers to think, that a portion of
divine right is communicated to their rule. If this
really was the case ; their power ought to be subservient
to their goodness, and their goodness should be employed
in promoting the happiness of those, who are intrusted
to their care. But princes, and the flatterers of princes,
are guilty, in two respects, of the grossest errour and
presumption. They claim to govern by divine institution
and right. The principles of their government are
repugnant to the principles of that government, which is

i

LECTURES ON LAW. 113

I

diTtne. The principle of the divine government is good-
ness : they plume themselves with the gaudy insignia
of power.

Well might nature^s poet say —

Could great men thunder,

As Joire hiniself does, Joye would ne'er be quiet ;
For every pelting^ petty officer
Would use his heaven for thunder ;
, Nothing but thunder. Merciful heaven !
Thou rather with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt
Spht'st the unwedgeable aad gnarled oak,
Than the soft myrtle : O, but man, proud man,
Dressed in a little brief authority,
Most ignorant of what he's most assured.
His glassy substance ; like an angry ape,
Plays such fantastick tricks before high heaven,
As make the angels weep.

Shak, Meaa.for Meat. Act IL

Where a supreme right to give laws exfsts, on one
side, and a perfect obligation to obey them exists, on the
other side ; this relation, of itself, suggests the proba-
bility that laws will be made.

When we view the inanimate and irrational .creation
around and above us, and contemplate the beautiful order
observed in all its motions and appearances ; is not the
supposition unnatural and improbable— that the rational
and moral world should be abandoned to the frolicks of
chance, or to the ravage of disorder ? What would be
the fate of man and of society, was every one at full
liberty to do as he listed, without any fixed rule or prin-
ciple of conduct, without a helm to steer vhim — a sport*

TOL. I. . Q.
LECTURES ON LAW.

of the fierce g^sts of passion, and the fluctuating b^lows
of caprice?

To be without law is not agreeable to our nature ;
because, if we were without law, we should find many
of our talents and powers hanging upon us like useless
incumbrances. Why should we be illuminated by reason,
were we only made to obey the impulse of irrational
instinct ? Why should we have the power of deliberating,
and of balancing our determinations, if we were made to
yield implicitly and unavoidably to the influence of the
first impressions ? Of what service to us would reflection
be, if, after reflection, we were to be carried away
irresistibly by the force of blind and impetuous appetites ?

Without laws, what would be the state of society ?
The more ingenious and artful the twolegged animal^
man, is, the more dangerous he would become to his
equals : his ingenuity would degenerate into cunning ;
and his art would be employed for the purposes of malice.
He would be deprived of all the benefits and pleasures of
peaceful and social life : he would become a prey to all
the distractions of licentiousness and war.

Is it probable-i— we repeat the question — is it probable
that the Creator, infinitely wise and good, would leave hi*
moral world in this chaos and disorder ?

If we enter into ourselves,^ and view with attention
what passes in our own breasts, we shall find, that what,
at first, appeared probable, is proved, on closer examina*
tion, to be certain ; we shall find, that God has not left
himself without a witness, nor us without a guide.

LECTURES OK LAW. ' 115

We have already observed, that, concerning the nature
ktid cause of obligation, many different opinions have been
entertained, and much ingenious disputation has been
Held, by philosophers and writers on jurisprudence. It
-will not be improper to take a summary view of those
opinions.

Some philosophers maintain, that all obligation arises
from the relations of things**; from a certain proportion
or disproportion, a certain fitness or unfitness, between
objects and actions, which give a beauty to some, and a
deformity to others. They say, that the rules of morality
are founded on the nature of things ; and are agreeable
to the order necessary for the beauty of the universe, i

Others allege, that every rule whatever of human ac-
tions carries with it a moral necessity of conforming to
it; and consequently produces a sort of obligation.
Every rule, say they, implies a design, and the will of
attaining a certain end. He, therefore, who proposes a
particular end, and knows the rule by which alone he can
accomplish it, finds himself under a moral necessity of
observing that rule. If he did not observe it, he would
act a contradictory part ; he would propose the end, and
neglect the only means, by which he could obtain it.
There is a reasonable necessity, therefore, to prefer one
manner of acting before another ; and every reasonable
man finds himself engaged to this, and prevented from
acting in a contrary manner. In other words, he is
obliged : for obligation is nothing more than a restriction
of liberty produced by reason. Reason, then, inde*^
pendent of law, is sufficient to impose some obligation

J»l.Ruth.9. iGro. 10.

116 LiCTUJLES ON LAW.

on man, and to establish a system of monditjr aad

duty.^

But, according to others, the idea of obligation ne-
cessarily implies a being, who obliges, and must be dis-
tinct from him, who is obliged. If the person, on
whom the obligation is imposed, is the same as he who
imposes it ; he can disengage himself from it whenever
he pleases : or, rather, there is no obligation. Obliga-
tion and duty depend on the intervention of a superiour,
whose will is manifested by law* If we abstract from
all law, and consequently from a legislator; we shaU
have no such thing as right, obligation, duty, or mo-
rality. ^

Others, again, think it necessary to join the last two
principles togedier, in order to render the obligation
perfect.^ Reason, say they, is the first rule of man, the
first principle of morality, and the immediate cause 0f
all primitive obligation. But man being necessarily de-
pendent on his Creator, who has formed him with wis-
dom and design, and who, in creating him, has pro-
posed some particular ends ; the will of God is anodier
rule of human actions, another principle of morality,
obligation, and duty. On this distinction, the kinds of
obligation, external and internal, are founded. These
two principles must be united, in order to form a com-
plete system of morality, really founded on the nature
and state of man. As a rational being, he is subject to
reason: as a creature of God, to his supreme will.
Thus, reason and the divine will are perfectly reconciled,

i Hein. 63. 1. Burl. 20r. 210. 212. Puff. 17. b. 1. c. 2. s. 6.
^ 1. Burl. 210. 222. 203. Hein. 10. i 1. Ruth. 9.

XECTVKE8 ON LAW. 117

are Bftturally connected, and are strengthened by their
junction* ^

The cause of obligation is laid, by some philoso«-
pbers, in utility. '^ Actions, they tell us, are to be es*
timated by their tendency to promote happiness^
Whatever is expedient, is right. It is the utility, alone,
of any moral rule, which constitutes its obligation.

Congenial with this principle, is another, which has
received the sanction of some writers — ^that sociability,
or the care of maintaining society properly, is the foun-
tain of obligation and right : for to every right, there
must be a corresponding obligation. From this principle
the inference is drawn, that every one is bom, not for
himself alone, but for the whole human kind. ^

Further— many philosophers derive our obligation to
observe the law of nature from instinctive affections, or
an innate moral sense. ^ This is the sense, they tell us,
by which we perceive the qualities of right and wrong,
und the other moral qualities in actions.

With regard, then, both to the meaning and the
cause of obligation, much diversity of sentiment, much
ambiguity, and much obscurity have,' it appears, pre-
vailed. It is a subject of inquiry, however, that well
deserves to be investigated, explained, illustrated, and
placed in its native splendour and dignity. In order to
do this, it will be proper to ascertain the precise state of

"» 1. Burl. 214. 216. 219. 220. ** 1. Palcy 82. Hein. 51.

« Hein. SO, Gra PreL 17. Puff. 139. b. 2. c. 3. s. 15.
f l.Kuth.9.

118 LtCTUKES ON LAW.

the question before us. It is this-r-what is the efficient
cause of moral obligation — of the eminent distinction
between right and wrong ? This has been often and in-
judiciously blended with another question, connected in-
deed with it, but from which it ought to be preserved
s«parate and distinct. That other question is — ^HoW
shall we, in particular instances, learn the dictates of our
duty, and make, with accuracy, the eminent distinction,
which we have just now mentioned ? The first question
points to xh^ principle of obligation : the second points to
the means by which our obligation to perform a specified
action, or a series of specified actions, may be deduced.
The first has been called by philosophers — principium
essendi — ^the principle of existence ; the principle which
constitutes obligation. The second has been called by
them — principium cognoscendi — the principle of know-
ing it ; the principle by which it may be proved or per-
ceived. In a commonwealth, the distinction between
these two questions is familiar and easy. If the question
is put — ^what is the efficient cause of the obligation upon
the citizens to obey the laws of the state ? — ^the answer
is ready — ^the will of those, by whose authority the^aws
are made. If the other question is put — ^h'ow shall we, in
a particular instance, or in a series of particular instances,
ascertain the laws, which the citizens ought to obey ? —
reference is immediately made to the code of laws.

«

Having thus stated the question — what is the efficient
cause of moral obligation ? — I give it this answer — the
will of God.' This is the supreme law.^ His just and
full right of imposing laws, and our duty in obeying

9 Principem legem illam ct ultimam, mentem esse dicebant,
omnia ratione aut cogentis, aut vetantis dei. Cic, de leg. L 2. c. 4.

LECTURES OH LAW. 119

thexa> are the sources of our moral obligations. If I am
asked — why do you obey the will of God ? I answer—-
because it is my duty so to do. If I am asked again — ^how
do you know this to be your duty ? I answer again —
because I am told so by my moral sense or conscience.
If I am asked a third time — ^how do you know that you
ought to do that, of which your conscience enjoins the
performance? I can only say, 1 feel that such is my.
duty. Here investigation must stop ; reasoning can go
no farther. The science of morals, as well as other
sciences, is founded on truths, that cannot be discovered
or proved by reasoning. Reason is confined to the in-
vestigation of unknown truths by the means of such as
are known. We cannot, therefore, begin to reason, till
we are furnished, otherwise than by reason, with some
truths, on which we can found our arguments. Even in
mathematicks, we must be provided with axioms percei-
ved intuitively to be true, before our demonstrations
can commence. Morality; like mathematicks, has its in-
tuitive truths, without which we cannot make a single-
step in our reasonings upon the subject. ^ Such an intui- ,
tive truth is that, with which we just now closed our in-
vestigation. If a person was not possessed of the feel-
ing before mentioned ; it would not be in the power of
arguments, to give him any conception of the distinc-
tion between right and wrong. These terms would be
to him equally unintelligible, as the term colovr to one
who was bom .and has continued blind. But that there
is, in human nature, such a moral principle, has been
felt and acknowledged in all ages and nations.

' QusB est gens, aut quod genus hominum, quod non habeat
sine doctrina anticipatiohem quandam, id est, anticept^m animo
rei quandam infbrmationem, sine qua nee intelllgi quidquam, nee
quxri, nee disputarl potest. Cic de nat. Deor* 1* 1* c. 16.

t2<> LECTURES OW LAW.

Now that we have stated and answered the first ques-
tion ; let us proceed to the consideration of the second' —
how shall we, in particular instances, learn the dictates
of our duty, and make, with accuracy, the proper dis-
tinction between right and wrong j in other words, how
shall we, in particular cases, discover the will of God ?
We discover it by our conscience, by our reason, and by
the Holy Scriptures. The law of nature and the law of
revelation are both divine : they flow, though in different
channels, from the same adorable source. It is, indeed,
preposterous to separate them from each oliier. The
object of both is— •to discover the will of God — and

both are necessary for the accomplishment of that
end.

I. The power of moral perception is, indeed^ a. most
important part of our constitution. It is an original
pQwer>— a power of its own kind ; and totally distinct
from the ideas of utility and agreeableness. By thai
power, we have conceptions of merit and demerit, of
duty and moral obligation. By that power, we perceive
some things in human conduct to be right, and others ta
b6 wrong. We have the same reason to rely on the die*
tates of this faculty, as upon the determinations of our
senses, or of our other natural powers. When an actiop
is represented to us, flowing from love, humanity, gra^
titude, an ultimate desire of the good of others ; thougji
it happened in a country far distant, or in an a^e long
past, we admire the lovely exhibition, and praise its
author. The contrary conduict, when represented to us^
raises our abhorrence and aversion. But whence this
secret chain betwixt each person and mankind I if there
is no moral sense, which n^akes benevolence appear

LlCTU&fiS ON LAW. liSl

beautifel ; if all approbatipn be from the interest of the
approver ;

« WfaAt*8 Hecuba to usy or we .to Hecuba V •

The laind) whkh areflects on itself, and is a spectator
of other minds, sees and feels the soft and the barsh^ ^
the agreeable and the disagreeable, the foql and the fair,
the harmonious and the dissonant, as really and truly
in the affections and actions^ as in any musical numbers,
or the oiiitward iorms or r^resentations of sensible thii^gs.
It cannot withhidd ita appi?obation or aversion in ^hat
relates to the former, any more than in what relates to
the latter, of those subjects. To deny the sense of a *
sublime and beautiful and of their contraries in actions
and things, will appear an affectation merely to one who
duly considers and traces the subject. Even he who
andiilges this affectation cannot avoid the discovery of
those very sentiments, which he pretends not to feeL
A Lucretius or a Hobbes cannot discard the sentiments
of praise and admiration respectiiig some moral forms,
Aor the sentiments of censure and detestation concerning
others. Has a man gratitude, or resentment, or pride,
or shame ? If be has and avows it ; he must have and ^
acknowledge a sen^e of .something benevolent, of som^e-
thing unjust, of scxmething wordiy, and of something;
mean. Thus, so long as we find mc^ pleased or angry,
proud or ashamed ; we may appeal to the reality of the
moral sense. A right and a wrong, an honourable and
a dishonourable is plainly conceived. About these ther^
;may be mistakes ; but this destroys not the inference,
that Ae things are, and are universally acknowledged-**

« Hamlet
VOL. I. . R i

■ 1
LJECTVRES OK LAV.

that they are of nature's impression, and -by no art
be obliterated.

This sense or apprehension of right and wrong appears
early, and exists in different degrees. The qualities of
love, gratitude, sympathy unfold themselves, in the first
stages of life, and the approbation of those qualities
accompanies the first dawn of reflection. Young people,
who think the least about the distant influences of actions^
arc, mor^ than others^ moved with moral forms. Hence
that strong inclination in children to hear such stories as
paint the characters and fortunes of men. Hence that
joy in. the prosperity of the kind and faithful, and that
sorrow upon the success of the treacherous and cruel,
with 'which we often see infant minds strongly agi*
tated.

There is a natural beauty in figures ; atid is there
not a beauty as natural in actions ? When the eye opens
upon forms, and the ear to sounds ; the beautiful is seen,
and harmony is heard and acknowledged. When actions
are viewed and affections are discerned, the inward eye
distinguishes the beautiful, the amiable, the adrairablef,
from the despicable, the odious, and the deformed;
How is it possible not to own, that as these distinctions
have their foundation in nature, so this power of dis*^
ce^tiing them is natural also ?

The universality of an opinion or sentiment may be
evinced by the structure of languages. Languages were
not invented by philosophers, to countenance or support
any artificial system. They were contrived by men in
general, to express common sentiments and perceptions.
The inference is satisfactory, that where all languages

LECTURES t>N LAW^. ISS

^ixtake a diistinction, there must be a similar distinction in
universal opinion or sentiment. For language is the
picture of human thoughts j and, from this faithful
picture, we may draw certain conclusions concerning the
original* Now, a universal eifect must have . a uni*
versal cause. No universal cause can, with propriety, be
as$igned for this imiversal opinion, except that intuitive
perception of things, which is distinguished by the name
of common sense*,

t

' All languages speak of a beautiful and a deformed, a
right and a wrong, an agreeable and disagreeable, a good
and ill, in actions, affections, and characters. All Ian*
guages, therefore, suppose a moral sense, by which thosi
qv(si»^ are perceived and distinguished.

Tb^ whole circle of the arts of imitation proves the
realify of' the moral sense. They suppose, in human
conduct, a sublimity, a beauty, a greatness, an excellence,
independent of advantage or disadvantage, profit or loss.
Chi him, whose heart is indelicate or hard ; on him, who
feias no admiration of what is truly noble ; on him, who
has no sympathetick sense of what is melting and tender,
the highest beauty of the mimick arts must make, indeed,
but -a very faint and transient impression. If we were
iroid of a relish for. moral excellence, how frigid and
uninteresting would the finest descriptions of life and
manners appear! How indifferent are the finest strains
of harmeony, to him who has not a musical ear !

The force of the moral sense is diffused through every
|}art of life. The luxury of the table derives its principal
<^earms from some mixture of moral enjoyments, froip

IS4 I«£CTU]tSS 0» I.AW.

comiftumcating pleasures^ and. from seaitiiQ^iil:^ Ikmkmi^*
able stud just as well, as elegai^t—r

. " The feast of reason, and tke flow of soul/*

' i

r

The chief pleasures of history, and poetry, aiict elcM
<)uefice, and musick, and sculpture, and patttting are
derived from the same source. Beside the pleasnirefs
they afford by imitation, they receiTc a stronger charm
from something moral insinuated into the performances.
The principal beauties of behaviour, and even of counte*
nance, arise from the indication of affections or quaUties
inordlly estimable.

Never was th^ere any of the human species above A«f
condition of an idiot, to whom all actiofi» appeared
indifferent. All feel that a certain temper, certain affec*
tion^l^ and certain actions produce a sentiment of appro*
bafa<ki ; and that a sentiment of ^sapprobation is produced ^
by the contrasry temper, nffeetions, and actions.

Thid power is capable of culture «nd improivement by
habit, and by frequent and extensive exercise. A hi||ik
sense of moral excellence is api»roved above all othet
intellectual talents. This high sense of excellence it
accompanied widi a* strong deaire after it, and a- Jceen
relish for it. This desire and thia relish are appr6ved
as the most amiable affections, and the highest vktues.

This moral sense, from ita very nature, is intended to

regulate and control all our other powers. It governs

bur passions as well as our actifxns^ Other ptinciples

may scdicit and allure; but the conscience Jumixutn

> authority, it must be obeyed. Of this dignity and com"^

'manding nature we are immediately conscious, as we are

LBCTI7a£6 ON LAW.

its

«l dbe pewer itself. It estimates what it eiyoitis, not
merely as superiour in degree, but as superiour Ukewise
m kindf to what is recommended by our other perceptive
powers. Without this controlling faculty,, endowed as
we are with such a variety of senses and interfering
desires^ we should appear a fabfick destitute of order :
bi»t possessed of it, all our powers may be harmonious a^
consistent ; they may all combine in one uniform and
regular direction.

In short ; if we had not the faculty of perceiving cer*
tsdo things in conduct to be right, and others to be
wrong ; and of perceiving our obligaticm to do what is
right, and not to do what is wrong ; we should not be
moral and accountable beings.

If we be, as, I hope, I have shown we are, endowed
with this faculty; there must be some things, which are
immediately discerned by it to be right, and others to be
wrong. There must, consequently, be in morals, as
in other sciences, first principles, which derive not
their evidence from any antecedent principles, but which
msiy be said to be intuitively discerned.

M(»^ truths may be divided into two classes ; such
as are selfevident, and such as, from the selfevident ones,
are deduced by reasoning. If the first be not discerned
without reasoning, reasoning can never discern the last.
The cases that require reasoning are few, compared with
those that require none ; and a man may be very honest
and virtuous,, who cannot reason, and who knows not
what demonstration means.

1S6 lyECTtHES t)K LAl^r.

If the rules of virtue were left ^o be discov^recT b^
reasoning) even by demonstrative reasoning, unh^ppjr
"would be . the condition of the tar greater part of men,
who have not the means of cultivating the power of rea-
soning to any high degrefe. As virtue is the business of
all men, the first principles of it are written on theur
hearts, in characters so legible, that no man can pretend
ignorance of them, or of his obligation to practise them.
Reason, even with experience, . is too often overpowered
by passion ; to restrain whose impetuosity, nothing less
is requisite than the vigorous and commanding principle
of dutv.

I

II. The first principles of morals, int<> which all mora!

argumentation may be resolved, are discovered in a man*
ner more analogous to the perceptions of sense than to
the conclusions of reasoning. In morality, however,
as well as in other sciences, reason is usefully introduced,
and performs many important services. In many in-
stances she regulates our belief ; and in many instances
she regulates our conduct! She determines the proper
means to any end ; and she decides the preference of one
end over another. She may exhibit an object to the mind,
though the perception which the mind has, when once
the object is exhibited, may properly belong to a sensed
She maybe necessary to ascertain the circumstances and
determine the motives to an action ; though it be the
moral sense that perceives the action to be either virtuous
or vicious, after its motive and its circumstances' have
been discovered. She discerns the tendencies of the
several senses, affections, and actions, and the compa-"'
rative value of objects and gratifications. She judges
concerning'. subordinate* ends ; but concerning ultimate
ends she is not employed. These we prosecute by some

LECTURES ON LAW. 127

immediate determination of the mind, Trhich, in the
order of action, is prior to all reasoning; for no opinion
or judgment can move to action, where there is not a
previous desire of some end. — This power of comparing
the several enjoyments, of which our nature is suscepti-
ble, in order to discover which are most important to
our happiness, is of the highest consequence and nece»*
sity to corroborate our moral faculty, and to preserve
our affections in just rank and regular order-

A magistrate knows that it is his duty to promote the
good of the commonwealth, which has intrusted him
with authority. But whether one particular plan or ano-
ther particular plan of conduct in office, may best pro*
mote the good of the commonwealth, may, in many
cases, be doubtful. His conscience or moral sense de-
termines the end, which he ought to pursue ; and he has
intuitive evidence that his end is good : but the means
of attaining this end must be determined by reason. To
select and ascertain those means, is often a matter of
very considerable difficulty. Doubts may arise ; oppo>-
site interests may occur; and a preference must be given
to one side from a small over-balance, and from very
nice views. This is particularly the case in questions
with regard to justice. If every single instance of jus-
tice, like every single instance of benevolence, were
pleasing and useful to society, the case would be more
simple, and would be seldom liable to great controvers)''.
But as single instances of justice are often pernicious in
their first and immediate tendency i and as the advan-
tage to society results only from the observance of the
geiieral rule, and from the concurrence and combination
of several persons in the same equitable conduct; the
case here becomes more intricate and involved. .The

/

126 LEtiTUJtJEs (nr lav.

Tarious circumstanced oiF society, the various co&se<»
fences of any practice, the various interests which may
be proposed, are all, on many occasions, doubtful, and
subject to much discussion and inquiry. The design of
municipal law (for let us still, from every dtreqtion,
open a view to our principal object) the design of mu^
nicxpfld law is to fix all the questions which regard justice*
A very accurate reason or judgment is often requisite,
to give the true determinaticm amidst intricate doubts,
arising from obscure or opposite utilities.

Thus, though good and ill, rig^t. and wrong are uU
timately perceived by the moral sense, yet reason assists
its operations, and, in many insUmces, strengthens and
extends its influence. We may argue concemii^ pro-
priety of conduct : just reasoning^ on the subject will
establish principles for judging of what deserves praise :
but, at die same time, these reasonings must alttaps*
in the last resort, appeal to the moral sense.

Farther ; reason serveis to illustrate, to prove, to ex«
tend, to apply what our moral sense has already suggest-
ed to us, concerning just and unjust, proper and impro-
per, right and wrong. A father feels that paternal ten-
derness is refined and confirmed, by reflecting how coi»-
sonant that feeling is to the relation between a parent and
his child ; how conducive it is to the happiness, not only
of a single family, but, in its extension, to that of all
mankind. We feel the beauty and excellence of virtue ;
hut this sense is strengthened and improved by the les^
sons, which reason gives us concerning the foundations,
the motives, the relations, the particular and the univer-
sal advantages flowing from diis virtue, which, at first
^ sight, appeared so beautiful. '

I^R^TURES ON LAVfp tft9

Taste 1$ a facul^, common, in some degree, to all
men. But study, attention, comparison operate mo^
powerfully towards its refinement. In the same manner,
reason contributes to. ascertain the. exactness, and to dis-
cover and correct the mistakes, of the moral sens/e. A
prejudice of education may be misapprehended for ade->
' termination of morality. 'Tis reason's province to com-
pare and discriminate. >

Reason .performs an excellent service to the motal
sense in another respect. It considers the relations of
actions, and traces them to the remotest consequences.
We often see men. with the most honest hearts and most
^ pure intentions, embarrassed and puzzled, when a case,
delicate and complicated, comes before them. They feel
what is ri^ht ; they are unshaken in their general prin-
ciples ; but they are unaccustomed tq pursue then)
through their diiFerent ramifications, to make the neces-*
sary distinctions and exceptions, or to modify them
according to the circumstances of time and place. 'Tis
the business of reason to discharge this duty ; and it will
discharge it the better in proportion to the care which
has been employed in exercising and improving it.

, . The exis,tence of the moral sense has been denied by .
some philosophers of high fame : its authority has been
attacked by others : the certainty and uniformity of its
decisions have been arraigned by. a third class. ' We arc
told, that, without educati9n, we should have been in a
state of perfect indifFerence as to virtue and vice ; that an
education, opposite to that which we have received,
would have taught us to regard as virtue that which we

t 1. Paley 13—24. Kaims Pr. Eq. 8.

VOL. I. i

IBO I«£CT0RSS OK X.AW*

now ditlilce as vice, and to ijkspise as vice .that whtdi^we
BOW esteem as virtue. In support of these observations^
it is farther 3aid, that moral sentiment is different in
different countries, in different ages, and under different
forms of government and religion ; in a word, that it is
ts much the effect of custom, fashion, and artifice, as our
taste in dress, furniture, and the modes of convetBation.
Facts and narratives have been assembled and accumu*
If^d, to evince the great diversity and even contrarietjr
t||«t subsists concerning moral opinions. And it has been
gfgvely asked, whether the wild boy, who was caught in
tli(f woods of Hanover, would feel a sentiment of disap^
probation upon being told of the conduct of a parricide,
^n investigation of those facts and narratives cannot find
$, place in these lectures ; though the time bestowed on it
|liight be well employed. It may, however^, be proper
jfp observe, that it is but candid to consider human nature
in her improved, and not in her most rude or depraved
forms. ^^ The good experienced man," says Aristotle,
^ is the last measure of all things.'"^ To ascertain moml
principles, we appeal not to the common sense of savages,
but of men in th^ir most perfect state.

Epicurus, as well as some modem advocates of the
same philosophy, seem to have taken their estimates .of
^ human nature from its mealiest and most degrading
exhibitions ; but the noblest and most respectable philo-
sophers of antiquity have chosen, for a much wiser and
better purpose, to view it on the brightest and most
advantageous side. ^^ It is impossible," says the incom-
parable Addison,^ ^^ to read a passage in Plato or TuUy,
md a thousand other ancient moralists, without being a

« 1. Hutch, sar. 121. ^ Tatler Na 101

:greater and a better man for it. On the contrary, I
could never read some modish modern authors, without
i)eing^ for some time, out of humour with^myself, and at
every, thing about me. Their business is to depreciate
kuman nature, and consider it under its worst appear-
loices. They give mean interpretation and basemotivQS
to the worthiest actions— in short, they endeavour to
make no distmetion between man and man, or between
the species of men and that of brutes," True it is, that
aome men and some nations are savage and brutish ; but
is that a reason why their manners and their practices
should be generally and ^reproachfully charged to the
account of human nature ^ It may, perhaps, be some-
what to our purpose to observe, that in many of these
representations, the picture, if compared with, the origi-
nal, will be. found to be overcharged. For, in truth,
between mankind, considered even in their rudest state,
and the rmttum et turpepecus, a very wide difference will
be easily discovered. In the most uninformed savages,
we find the communes notitias^ the common notions and
practical principles of virtue, though the application of
them is often extremely unnatural and absurd. These
same savages have in them the seeds of the logician, the
^nan of taste, the orator, the statesman, the man of virtue,
and the saint. These seeds are planted in their minds
by nature, though, for want of culture and exercise, they
lie unnoticed, and are hardly perceived by themselves or
by others. Besides, some nations that have been supposed
stupid and barbarous by nature, have, upon fuller ac-
quaintani:e with their history, been found to have been
rendered barbarous and depraved by institution. When,
by the power of some leading members, erroneous laws
4re once established, and it has become the interest of
subordinate tyrants to support a corrupt system i errour

iit LECTURES ON LAW. ,

and iniquity become sacred. Under such a system, tl»c
multitude are fettered by the prejudices of educatibn,
and awed by the dread of power^ from the free exercise
of their reason. These principles will account for the
^ many absurd and execrable tenets and practices with
'regard to government, 'morals, and religion, which have
been invented and established in opposition to the un-
biassed sentiments, and in derogatioii of the natural
rights of mankind. But, after making all the exceptions
and abatements, of which these facts and narratives, if
admitted in their fullest extent, would justify the claim,
still it cannot be denied, but is even acknowledged, thilt
some sorts of actions command and receive the esteem
of mankind more than others ; and that the approbation
of them is general, though not universal. It wiH certakiljr
be sufficient for our purpose to observe, that the dictates
of reason are neither more general, nor more uniform,
nor more certain, nor more commanding, than the dictates
of the moral sense. Nay, farther ; perhaps, upon inquiiy,
we shall find, that those obliquities, extravagancies, and
inconsistencies of conduct, that are produced as proofr
of the nonexistence or inutility of the moral sense, are,
• in fact, chargeable to that faculty, which is meant to be
substituted in its place. We shall find that men always
approve upon an opinion — ^true or false, but still an
opinion — that the- actions approved have the qualities and
tendencies, which are the proper objects of approbation.
They suppose that such actionis will promote their own
interest ; or will be conducive to the publick good 5 or
are required by the Deity ; when, in truth, they have all
the contrary properties — may be forbidden by the Deity,
and may be detrimental both to publick and to private
good. But when all this happens, to what cause is it to
be traced ? Does it prove the nonexistence of a mond

LCCTUHES ON £AW. 1 35

sense, or does it, prove, in such instances, the weakness
or perversion of reason ? The just solution is, that, in
such instances, it is our reason, which presents fedsc
appearances to our moral sense.

It is with much reluctanoe, that the power of our
instinctive or intuitive faculties is acknowledged by some
philosophers. That the brutes are governed by instinct,
but that man is governed by reason, is their favourite
position. But fortunately for man, this position is hot
founded on truth. Our instincts, as well as our rational
powers, are far superiour, both in number and indigni^,
to those, which the brutes enjoy ; and it were well for
us, on many occasions, if we laid our reasoning systems
aside, and were more attentive in observing the genuine -
impulses of nature. In this enlarged and elevated
meaning', the sentiment of Pope ^ receives a double por-
tion of force and sublimity.

^ And reason raise o'er instinct as you can,
In this, 'tis God direct^ in that, 'tis man.

>»

This sentiment is not dictated merely in the fervid glow
of enraptured poetry i it is affirmed by the deliberate
judgment of calm, sedate philosophy. Our instincts are
no other than the oracles of eternal wisdom ; our con-
science, in particular, is the voice of God within us : it
teaches, , it commands, it punishes, it rewards. The
testimony qf a good conscience is the purest and the no-
blest of human enjoyments.

It will be proper to examine a little more minutely
the opinions of those, who allege reason to be the sole

I

^ Ess. on Man. £p. 3. v. 99,

f#4 hWCT^XB on LA%*

directress df human condact* Reason m«jr, indead» in*
stmct us in the pernicious or useful tendency of qualitifis
and actions : but reason alone is not sufficient to pro*
duce any moral approbation qr blame. Utility is cmly
a tendency to a certain end ; and if the end be totally in-
different to usy we shal^ feel the same indifference to<<
wards the means. It is requisite that sejitmeiU should
.intenrene^ in order to give a preference to the useful
above the pernicious tendencies*

Reason judges either of relations or of matters of
fact. Let us consider some particular virtue or vice under
both views. Let us take the instance of ingratitude*
This has places when good wiU is expressed and .goo{i
offices are performed on one side, and ill will or indiffei^
ence is shown on thb other. The first ques1(ion is— *wh9t
is that matter of fact, which is here called a vice I Indif*
ference or ill will. But ill will is npt always, nor in all
circumstances a crime : and indifference may, on some
occasions, be the result of the mostphilosophick fortitude.
He vice of ingratitude,^ then, consists not in matter of
fact.

Let us next inquire into the relatione, which reason can
discover, among the materials, of which ingratitude is
composed. She discovers good will and good offices on
onQ side, and ill will or indifference on the other. This
is the relation of contrariety* Does ingratitude consist
in this ? To which side of the contrary relation is it to
be placed I For this relaticm of contrariety is formed as
much by good will and good offices, as by ill will or in-
difference. And yet the former deserves praise as much
as the latter deserves blame.

. if it shall be said, that the moralitjr of an action does
not consist in the relation of its different parts to one
another, but in the relation of the whole actions to the
rule ; and that actions are denominated good or ill, as
they agree or disagree with that rule ; another question
occurs — ^What is this rule of right i by what b it disco-
vered or determined ? By reason, it is said* How d6e»
reason discover or determine this riile I It must be bj
examining facts or the relations of things. But by the
analysis which has been given of the particular instance
under our consideration, it has appeared that the vice of
ingratitude consists neither in the matter of fact, nor in
the relation of the parts, of which the fact is composed*
Objects in the animal w<Hld, nay inanimate objects*
tn2Lj have to each other all the same relations, which we
observe in moral agents; but such objects are never
supposed to be susceptible of merit or demerit, of virtue
or vice«

The uhimate ends of human actions, can never, in
any case, be accounted for by reason. They recommend
themselves entirely to the sentiments and affections of
men, without dependence on the intellectual faculties*
Why do you take exercise ? Because you desire health.
Why do you desire health i Because sickness is painfuL
Why do you hate pain ? No answer is heard. Can one
be given? No. This is an ultimate end, and is not
referred to any farther object.

To the second question, you may, perhaps, answer,
tlMt you desire health, because it is necessary for your
improirement in your profession. Why are you anxious
to make this improvement? You may, perhaps,. answer
ngaiiky because you wish to get money by it. Why do

IM L£CTUR£a ON. LAW.

you wish to get money? Because, among other reasons^
it is the instrument of pleasure. But why do you love
pleasure? Can a reason be given for loving pleasure,
any more than for. hating pain? They are both ultimate
objects. 'Tis impossible there can be a progress in infi-
nitum; and that one thing can always be a iieason, why
another is hated or desired. Something must be hateful
or desirable on its own account, and because of its imme*
diate agreement or disagreement with human sentiment
and affection.

Virtue and vice are ends ; and are hateful or desirable
on their own account. It is requisite, therefore, that
there should be some sentiqient, which they touch — some
internal taste or sense, whiph distinguishes moral good
and evil, and which embraces one, and rejetptsthe other.
Thus are the offices of reason and of the moral sense at
last ascertained. The former conveys the knowle4g;e of
truth and falsehood : the latter, the sentiment of beauty
and deformity, of vice and virtue. The standard of
otie, founded on the.pature of things, is eternal and in-^-
flexible. The standard of the other is ultimately derived
from that supreme will, which bestowed on us our. pecu-
liar nature, and arranged the several classes and orders
of existence^ In this manner, we return to the great
' principle, from which we set out. It is necessary that
reason should be fortified by the moral sen$e : without
die moral sense, a man may be prudent, but he cannot r
be virtuous.

Philosophers have degraded ouV senses below their ^
real importance. They represent them aa powers, by
which we have sensations and ideas only. . But this is
not the whole of their ofSc^ ; they ju4ge .as well as m««

LECTURES ON LAW. 137

I

form. Not confined to the mere office of conveying im«
pressions, they are exalted to the function of judging of
the nature and evidence of the impressions they convey.
If this be admitted, our moral faculty may, without im-
propriety, be calkd the moral sense. Its testimony, like
that o{ the external senses, is the immediate testimony
of nature, and on it we have the same reason to rely.
In its dignity, it is, without doubt, far superiourto every
other power of the mind.

The moral sense, like all our other powers, comes to
maturity by insensible degrees. It is peculiar to human
nature. It is both intellectual and active. It is evidently
intended, by nature, to be the immediate guide and
director of our conduct, after we arrive at the years of
understanding.

\

III. Reason and conscience can do much; but still
they stand in need of support and assistance. They are
useful and excellent monitors ; but, at some times, their
admonittons are not sufficiently clear ; at other times,
they are not sufficiently powerful; at all times, their
influence is not sufficiently extensive. Great and sublime
truths, indeed, would appear to a lew ; but the world, at
large, would be dark and ignorant. The mass of man-
kind would resemble a chaos, in which a few sparks,
that would diffuse a glimmering light, would serve only
to show, in a nabre striking manner, the thick darknesai
with which they are surrounded. Their weakness is
strengdiened, their darkness is illuminated, .their influ-
ence is enlarged by that heaven-descended science,
which has brought life and immortality to light. In .
compassion to the imperfection of our internal powers,
our aU-gi^ioiis Creator, Preserver,, and Ruler has been

VOL. I. T

1S8 LECTURES OX LAV.

pleased to discover and enforce his laws, by a reveb^on
given to us immediately and directly from himself. This
revelation is contained in the holy scriptures. The
moral precepts delivered in the sacred oracles form a
psgrt of the law of nature, are of the same origin, and
of the same obligation, operating universally and per-
petually.

On some important subjects, diose in paitieul^^
which relate to the Deity, to Providence, and to a future
state, our natural knowledge is greatly improved, re^
fined, and exalted by that which is revealed. On these
subjects, one who has had the advantage of a, common
education in a christian country, knows more, and. wttb
more certainty, than was known by the wisest of the im*
cient philosophers. «

One superiour advantage the precepts delivered in
the sacred oracles clearly possess. They are, of all, the
most explicit and the most certain. A publkk minister,
judging from what he knows of the interests, views, and
designs of the state, which he represents, may take hi»
resolutions and measures, in many cases, with confi-
dence and safety y and may presume, with great proba-
bility, how the state itself would act* But if,' besides
this general knowledge, and these presumptions highly
probable, he was furnished also, with particular instruc-
tions for the regulation of his conduct; would he not
natura&y observe and govern himself by both rules i In
ctoes, where his instructions are clear and positive, these
would be an end of all farther deliberation. In other
cases, where his instnvctions are silent, he would supply
them by his general knowledge, and l^ the information,
which he could collect from other quartersy . cc^ceming

Li:CTUR£8 ON LAW. ISf

the counsels. and systems of the commonwealth. Thus
it is with regard to f eason, consci^ice, and the holy
scriptures. Where the latter give instnK:tions, those
instructicms are supereminently authentick. But who*
ever expects to find, in them, particular directions for
every moral doubt which arises, expects more than he
will find. They generally presuppose a knowledge of
the principles of morality; and are employed not so
ipncfa in teaching new rules on this subject, as in en-
forcing the practice of those already known, by a great-
er certainty, and by new sanctions. They present the
warniest recommendations and the strongest inducements
in favour of virtue : they exhibit the most powerful dis«
suasives from vice. But the origin, the nature, and the
extesit of the several rights and duties they do not ex-
jplain ; nor do they specify in what instances one rig^t or
duty is entided to preference over another. They are
addressed to rational and moral agents, capable of pre-
viously knowing the rights of men, and the tendencies
of actions; of approving what is good, and of disap-
proving what is evil.

These considerations show, that the scriptures sup^
port, confirm, and corroborate, but do not supercede the
operations of reason and the moral sense. The infor-
mation with regard to our duties and obligations, drawn
from these different sources, ought not to run in uncon-
nected and diminished channels : it should flow in one
united stream, which, by its combined force and just
direction, will impel us uniformly and effectually towards
our greatest good.

We have traced, with some minuteness, the efficient
principle of o^gation, acnd the several means, by which

140 LZCTUJIES OH LAW.

our du^ may be known. It wiU be proper to turn our
attention back to the opinions that have been held, in
philosophy and jurisprudence, G<mceming this stdbject.
On a review of ihem^ we shall now find that, in general,
they are defective rather than erroneems ; that they have
fallen short of the mark, rather than deviated from the
proper course.

The fitness of things denotes their fitness to produce
our happiness : their nature means that actual constitutioa
of the world, by which some things produce happiness,
and others misery. Reason is one of the means, by
which we discern between thoi^ things^ which ptoduoe
the former, and those things, which produce the latter*
The moral sense feels and operates to promote the same
essential discriminations. Whatever promotes the grea^
est happiness of the whole, is congenial to the principles
o£ utility and sociability: and whatever unites in it all
the foregoing properties, must be agreeable to the will of
God : for, as has4>een said once, and as ought to be said
again, his will is graciously comprised in diis one pater*
nal precept-^Let man pursue . his happiness and per-
fection, t

The law of nature is immutable s not by the eff ec t of
an arbitrary disposition, but because it has its foundation
* in the nature, constitution, and mutual relations of men
and things. While these c^itinue to be the same, it must
continue to be the same also* This immutabili^ pf
nature's laws has nothing in it repugnant to the supreme
power of an all-perfect Being. Since he hitoiself is the
author of our constitution ; he cannot but command or
forbid such things as are necessarily agreeable or dis-
itgreeable to this very constitution. He is under the

LSCTVRK8 ON I.AW* 141

glorious ntfcessky df not ccmttadic^g himself. This
necessity ,«r far from limiting or dimimshiiig his perfec-
tions, adds to their external character, and poipts out their
excellency*

The. law of nature is universal. For it is true, not
only that all men are equally subject to die command of
their Maker ; but it is true also, that the law of nature,
having its foundation in die constitution and state of man,
has an essential fitness for all mankind, and binds them
without distinction.

This law, or right reason, as Cicero * calls it, is thus
beautifully described by that eloquent philosopher. ^^ It
is, indeed," says he, *'^ a true law, conformable to nature,
dUfiiised amon^ all men, unchangeable, eternal. By its
commands, it calls men to their duty : by its prohibitions,
it deters them from vice. To diminish, to alter,' much
more to abciish this law, is a vain attempt. Neither by
the senate, nor by the people, can its powerful obligation
be dissolved. It requires no interpreter or commentator.
It is not one law at Rome, another at Athens ; one law
now, another hereafter : it is the same eternal and immu-
table law, given at all times and to all nations : for God,
Who is its author and promulgator, is always the sole
master and sovereign of mankind."

** Man never is^* says the poet, in a seeming tone of
complaint, ^^ but always to be blest." The sentiment
would certainly be more consolatory, and, I think, it
would be likewise more just, if we were to say— -man
ereris; y<?r always to be blest. That we should have

«DeRep.l. 3.

14d LECTURCfi OV lAW.

more and better things before us, dian all that we have
yet acquired or enjoyed, is unquestions^ly a most desira-
ble state. The. reflection on this circumstancet> far fxom
diminishing our sense or the importance of our present
attainments and advantages, produces the contrary effects*
The present is gilded by the prospect of the future.

When Alexander hs^d conquered a wqrid, and had
nothing left to conquer ; what did he do ? He sat down
and wept. A well directed ambition that has conquered
worlds, is exempted from the fate of that of Alexander
the Great : it still sees before it more and better worlds
as the objects of conquest.

It is the gloridus destiny of man to be always pro*
gressive. Forgetting those things that are behind, it is
his duty, and it is his happiness, to press on towards
those that are before. In the order of Providence, as
has been observed on another occasion, the progress of
societies towards perfection resembles diat of an indivi*
dual. This progress has hitherto been but slow: by
many unpropitious events, it has often been interrupted :
but may we not indulge the pleasing expectation, that,
in future, it will be accelerated; and will meet with
fewer and less considerable interruptions.

Many circumstances seem — ^at least to a mind anxious
to see it, and apt to believe what it is anxious to see —
many circumstances seem to indicate the opening of such
a glorious prospect. The principles and the practice of
liberty are gaining groimd, in more than one section of
the world. Where liberty prevails, the arts apd sciences
lift up their heads and flourish. Where the arts and
sciences flourish, political and moral improvements will

LSCTURBS OK LAW. 143

IHcewbe be made* All will receive from each, and each
win receive from all, mutual support and assistance:
miftually supported and assisted, all may be carried to a
degree of perfection hitherto unknown^; perhaps, hi^rto
not believed.

" Men," says the sagacious Hooker, " if we view
them in their spring, are, at the first, without under-
standing or knowledge at all. Nevertheless, from this
utter vacuity, they grow by degrees, till they become at
length to be even as the angels themselves are. That
which agreeth to the one now, the other shall attain to
in the end : they are not so far disjoined and severed,
but that they come at length to meet." ^

Our progress in virtue should certainly bear a just
proportion to our progress in knowledge. Morals are
imdoubtedly capable of being carried to a much higher
degree of excellence than the sciences, excellent as they
are. Hence we may infer, that the law of nature, though
immutable in its principles, will be progressive in its
operations and effects. Indeed, the same immutable
principles will direct this progression. In every period
of his existence, the law, which the divine wisdom has
approved for man, will not only be fitted, to the cotem-
porary degree, but will be calculated to produce, in
future, a still higher degree of perfection.

A delineation of the laws of nature, has been often
attempted. Books, under the appellations of institutes
and systems of that law, have been often published.
From what has been said concerning it, the most finished

y Hooter, b. 1. s. 6, p. 8.

1 •

144 LEGTUHES ON LAW.

performances executed by human hands cannot be per-
fect. But most of them have been rude and imperfect
to a very unnecessary, some, to a shameful degree.-

A more perfect work than has yet appeared upon diis
great subject, would be a most valuable present to man-
kind. Even the most general outlines of it cannot, at
least in these lectures, be expected from me.
I

CHAPTER IV.

OF THE LAW OF NATIONS.

X HE law of nature, when applied to states or politic
cal societies, receives a new name, that of the law of
nations. This law, important in all states, is of pecu«
liar importance in free ones. The States of America
are certainly entitled to this dignified appellation. A
weighty part of the publick business is transacted by die
citizens at large. They appoint the legislature, and, either
mediately or immediately, the executive servants of the
publick. As the conduct of a state, both with regard to
itself and others, must greatly depend upon the charac-
ter, the talents, and the principles of those, to whom
the direction of that conduct is intrusted ; it is highly
necessary that those who are to protect the rights, and
to perform the duties of the commonwealth, should be
men of proper principles^ talents, and characters : if so^
it is highly necessary that those who appoint them
should be able, in some degree at least, to distinguish
and select those men, whose principles, talents, and
characters are proper. In order to do this, it is gready
useful that they hasre, at least, some jttst and general

VOL. I. V

146 L]KeTUA£fl oir ^Avr,

knowledge of those rights that are t6.be protected, .aii^
of those duties that are to b^ performed. Without this,
they will be unable to form a rational conjecture, con*
cerping the future conduct of those whom they are to*
elect. Nay, what is more $ without some such general
and just knowledge, Aey will be unable to forma ration-
al judgment, concerning the past and present conduct of
those whom they have already elected ; and, consequent*
ly, will be miable to form a rational determination whe-
ther, at the next election, they should reappoint them^
or substitute others in their place. As the practice of
the law of nations, therefore, must, in a free govem<rf
tnent, depend very considerably on the acts of the citf-
zens, it is of high import that, among those citizens^ its
knowledge be generally diffused.

But, if the knowledge of the law of nations is ipreatly
nseful to those who appoint, it must surely be highly
necessary to those who are appointed, the publick servants
and stewards of the commonwealth. . Can its interest^i
be properly managed, can its character bp properly sup*
ported, can its happiness be properly consulted, by those
who know not what it owes to others, what it owes to
itself, what it has a right to claim from others, and what
It has aright to provide for itself f In a free common-
wealth, the path to publick service and to publick honovir
is open to all« Should not all, therefore, sedulously en-
deavour to become masters of such qualifications, a«
will enable them to tread this path with credit to them-
selves, and with advantage to their country?

»

In the United States, a system of repuWicks, the law
of nations acquires an importance still more-peculiar and
dOstinguisbi^d. . In the United Sutes, the law of nationa.

LECTVKZS ON LAIr. 14f

operates upon peculiar relations, and upon those rela-
tions with peculiar energy. Well am I justified, on
every account, in announcing the dignity and greatnesa
0f the subject, upon which I am now to enter*

On an occasions, let qb beware of being misled bjr
naoDQes. Thougl^the law, which I am now to consider,
receives a new appellation; it retains, unimpaired, its
Qualities and its power. The law of nations, as well as
the law of nature, is of obligation indispensable : the
law of nations, as well as the law of nature, is of ori-
gin divine.

The opinions of many concerning the law of nations
have been very vague and unsatisfactory ; and if sndx
have been the opinions, we have little reason to be sur-
prised, that the conduct of nations has too often been
diametrically opposite to the law, by which it ought to
have been regulated. In the judgment of some writers,
it would seem, for instance, that neither the state which
commences an unjust war, nor the chief who conducts
it, derogates from the general sanctity of their*respec«
tive characters. An ardent love of their country they
seem to have thought a passion too heroick, tp be re^
strained within the narrow limits of systematick morality^
and those have been too often considered as the greatest
patriots, who have contributed most to gratify the pub-
lick passion for conquest and power. States, as well as
monarchs, have .too frequently been blinded by ambition.
Of this there is scarcely a page in ancient or* in modem
history, relating to national contentions, but will fui^
jaish the most glaring proofs. The melancholy truth ia,
that the law of nations, though founded on the most so-
lid principles of natural obligation, has been but tmpcr«

149 IfSCTVREB ON LAW*

fectly viewed in theoiy, and hiu been too much di»e»
gtrded in practice.

The profound and penetrating Bacon was not ina^
tentive to the imperfect state, in which he found the
science of the law of nations. As, in another science,
that enlightened philosophical guide ppinted to the dis»
coveries of a Newton ; so in this, in all probability, he
laid a foiyidation for the researches of a Grotius. For
we have reason to believe, as we are told by Barbeyrac^
diat it was the study of the works of Lord Bacon, that
first inspired Grotius with the design of writing a system
concerning the law of nations. In this science Grotius
did much ; for he was well qualified to do much. Ex-
tensive knowledge, prodigious reading, indefistigable
application to study, all these were certainly his. Yet
with all these, he was far from being as successful in law*
as Sir Isaac Newton was in philosophy. He was unfer*
tunate in not setting out on right and solid principlesi
His celebrated book of the Rights of War and Peace b
indeed useful ; but it ought not to be read without a due
degree of caution : nor ought all his doctrines to be
received, without the necessary grains of allowance^
At this we ought not to wonder, when we consider tfad
extent, the variety, and the importance of his subject,
and that, before his time, it was little known, and much
neglected. His opinion concerning the source and the
obligation of the law of nations is very defective. He
separates that law from the law of nature, and assigns
to it a different origin. " When many men,'* says he,
^ at different times and places, unanimously affirm the
same thing for truth ; this should be ascribed to a general

*PreitoP^t.S9.p.79. ,

LECTURES OK LAW» 14t

^ause* In the subjects treated of by us, this cause *c^
be up other than either a just inference drawn from the
principles of nature, or a universal consent. The first
^scovers to us the law of nature, the second the law of
nations."^ The law of nations, we see, he traces from
the principle of universal consent. The consequence of
diis is, that the law of nations would be obligatory only
upon those by whom the consent was given^ and only by
reason of that consent. The farther consequence would
be, that the law of nations would lose a part, and the
greatest pftrt, of its obligatory force, and would also be
l^trained as to the sphere of its operations. That it
would lose the greatest part of its obligatory force, suffix
ciently appears from what we have said at large concern*
ing the origin and obligation of natural law, evincing it
to be the will of God. That it would be restrained as
to the sphere of its operations, appears from what Grotius
jhimself says, when he explains his meaning in another
place. He qualifies the universality of his expression by
addinglhese words, ^^ at least the most civilized nations ;^'
and he afterwards says that this addition is made ^^ with
reason." ® On the least civilized nations, therefore, the
law of nations would not, according to his account of it^
be obligatory.

I admit that there are laws of nations — ^perhaps it is
to be wished that they were designated by an appropriate
name j for names, after all, will have their influence oii
operations^-^I freely admit that there are laws of nations,
which are founded altogether upon consent. National
treaties are laws of nations, obligatory solely by consent^
The customs of nations become laws solely by ^onsentl

* Gro, PreL s. 41*. «Or6.U.

150 LBCTtTREB OlT LAV.

Both kinds are certainly vokintary. Bat the municipal
laws of a state are not more diiFerent from the law of
nature, than those voluntary laws of nations are, in their
source and power, diiFerent from the law of nations,
properly so called. Indeed, those voluntary laws of na-
tions are as much under the control of the law of nations,
properly so called, as municipal laws are under the con-
trol of the law of nature. The law of nations, propeily
BO called, is the law of nature applied to states and sove-
reigns. The law of nations, properly so called, is the
law of states and sovereigns, obligatory upon them in
the same manner, and for the same reasons, as the law
of nature is obligatory upon individuals. Universal,
indispensable, and unchangeable is the obligation of
both.

But it will naturally be asked, if the law of nations
bears, as from this account it bears, the same relation to
states^ which the law of nature bears to individuals ; if
the law of nature and the law of nations are accompanied
with the same obligatory power, and are derived from
the s^me common source ; why should the law of nations
have a distinct name i Why should it be considered at
a separate science ? Some have thought that the differ-
ence was only in name ; and if only in name, there could
surely be no solid reason for establishing even that dif^
ference. Ofthose^ who thought so, Puffendorff was one«
** Many," says he,* " assert the law of nature and of
nations to be the very same thing, differing no otherwise
than in external denomination. Thus Mr. Hobbes divides
natural law, into the natural law of mep^ and the natural
law of states, commonly called the law of nations. He

* FiiE p. 149. b. 9. c.^. %. tSU

LEGTt7R£8 OH LAW* 15t

observes, that the precepts of both are the same ; but that
as states, when once instituted, assume the personal pro^
perties of men 9 what we call the law of nature, when we
speak of particular men, we denominate the law of nations,
when we apply it to whole states, nations, or people* This
opinion," continues PuiFendorff, ^^ we, for our part, readiljK
subscribe to ; nor do we conceive, that there is any other
voluntary or positive law of nations, properly vested with
a true and legal force, and obliging as the ordinance of a
superiour power/* By the way, we may here observe,
that, with regard to the law of nations, Grotius and
Pu£Fendorff seem to have run into contrary extremes.
The former was of opinion, that the whole law of nations
took its origin and authority from consent. The latter
was of opinion, that every part of the law of nations iM^as
the same with the law of nature, that no part of it could
receive its obligatory force from consent ; because,
according to his favourite notion of law, no such things
could exist without the intervention of a superiour power*
The truth seems to lie between the two great philosophers.
The law of nations, properly so called, or, as it may be
termed, the natural law of nations, is a part, and an im-
portant part, of the law of nature. The voluntary law of
nations falls under the class of laws that are positive. If a
particular.name had been appropriated to this last species
of law, it is probable that much confusion ancl ambiguity,
on this subject, would have been avoided ; and the dis-
tinction between the different parts of that law, compre-
hended, at present, under the name of the law of nations,
would have been as clearly marked, as uniformly pre*
served, and as familiarly taken, as the well known and
well founded distinction between natural and municipal
law. JBut to returp.

•

/

iM LSCTURZ8 OH. UlW,.

As Puffeniferff thought that the law of nature and the
la^ of. nations wece precisely: the same^ he has not, in hit
book on these subjects, treated of the law of nation^
separatel}r; but, has every where joined it with the law
of nature, properly so called* His example has be^n
followed by ike. greatest part of succeeding writers. But
tiiie imitation of it has produced a confusion of two
objects, which ought to have been viewed and studied
distinctly and apart. Though the law of nations, pro*
perly so called, be a part of the law of nature ; thou£^ i|
spring from the same source ; and though it ia attei^ded
with the same obligatory power ; yet it must be remem*
bered that its application is made to very different ol^ects»
The law of nature is applied to individuals : the law of
nations is applied to states. The important difference
between the objects, will occasion a proportioned diffe]:^
ence in the af^Ucation of the law.^ This, difference in
Uie application renders it fit that the law of nat^re, whc^n
applied to states, should receive an appropriate name«
^d should.be taught and studied as a separate acience.

Though states or nations are considered as moral
persons ; yet the nature and essence of these moral persona
differ necessarily, in many respects, from the nature and
essence of the individuals, of whom they are con^posed.(
The application of a law must be made in a manner suijb
able to its object. The application, therefore, of the Iaw>
of nature to nations must be made in a manner suitable
to nations : its ^plication to individuals must be nobad^
in a manner suitable to individuals* But as natvm3 diffei^
from individuals ; the application of the law suitable ta
the formes, must-be different firom its application. suitaUer

• « ■ « ^

«VatPw£t

LECTURES ON I.AW* - 153

to the latter. To nations this different application can-
not be made with accuracy, with justness, and with
perspicuity, without the aid of new and discriminating
rules. These rules will evince, that, on the principles
then[&selves of the law of nature, that law, when applied
jto nations, will prescribe decisions different from those
-which it would prescribe, when applied to individuals.
To investigate those rules ; to deduce, from the same
^eat and leading principles, amplications differing in pro*
portion to the difference of the persons to which they are
.applied, is the object of the law of nations, considered
as a science disti9ct and separate from that c^ the law of
nature.

Having given you this general idea and description of
the law of nations ; need I expatiate on its dignity and
importance ? The law of nations is the law of sovereigns^.
Ln free states, such as ours, the sovereign or supreme
power resided in the people. In free states, therefore,
such as ours, the law of nations is the law of the people*
Let us again beware of being misled by an ambiguity,
sometimes, such is the structure of language, unavoida-
ble. When I say that, in free states, the law of nations
is the law of the people ; I mean not that it is a law made
by the people, or by virtue of their delegated authority »
as, in free states, all municipal laws are. But when I
say that, in free states, the law of nations is the law of
the people ; I mean that, as the law of nature, in other
-words,, as the will of nature's God, it is indispensably
binding upon the people, in whom the sovereign power
resides ; and who are, consequently, under the most sa-
cred obligations to exercise that powec, or to delegate it
to such as will exercise it, in a manner agreeable to ^those
rules and maxims, which the law of nature prescribes to

VOL. I. X

154 LECTURES ON LAW;

every state, for the happiness of each, and for tlie hap-
piness of all. How vast—^how important — ^how inter-
esting are these truths ! They announce to a free people
how exalted their rights; but, at the same time, they
announce to a free people how solemn their duties
are. If a practical knowledge and a just sense of these
rights and these duties were dilFused among the citizens^
and properly impressed upon their hearts and minds ;
how great, how beneficial, how lasting would be their
fruits ! But, unfortunately, as there have been and there
are^ in arbitrary governments, flatterers of princes ; so
there have been and there are, in free governments, flat*
terers of the people. One distinction, indeed, is to be
taken between them. The latter herd of flatterers per-
suade the people to make an improper use of the power,
which of right they have : the former herd persuade
princes to make an improper use of power, which of
right they have not. In other respects, both herds are
equally pernicious. Both flatter to promote their private
interests : both betray the interests of those whom they
flatter.

It is of the highest, and, in free states, it is of the
most general importance, that the sacred obligation of
the law of nations should be accurately known and deeply
felt. Of all subjects, it is agreeable and useful to form
just and adequate conceptions ; but of those especiaHj%
which have an influence on the practice atid morality of
states. For it is a serious truth, however much it has
been unattended to in practice, that the laws of morality,
are equally strict with regard to societies, as to the in-
dividuals of whom the societies are composed. It miis't
be owing either to ignorance, or to a very unjustifiable
disregard to this great truth, that some transactions of

l^CrVKZB ON LAW. 155

^ubilick bodies have often escaped censure, nay, some-
times have received applause, though those transactions
bave been such, as none of the individuals composing
those bodies would have dared to introduce into the
Tnanagement of his private affairs ; because the person
introducing them would have been branded with the
most reproachful of names and characters. It has been
long admitted, by those who have been the best judges
of private life and manners, that integrity and sound po*
licy go hand in hand. It is high time that this maxim
should find an establishment in the councils of states,
;and in the cabinets of princes. Its establishment there
would diffuse far and. wide the most salutary apd benign
effects.

Opinions concerning the extent of the law of nations
have not been less defective and inadequate, than those
concerning its origin and obligatory force. Some seem
to have thought, that this law respects and regulates the
conduct of nations only in their intercourse with each
other. A very important branch of this law — ^that con-
taining the duties which a nation owes itself — seems to
have escaped their attention. " The general principle,"
says Burlamaqui,^ ^* of the law of nations, is nothing
more than the general law of sociability, which obliges
nations to the same duties as are prescribed to indivi-
duals. Thus the law of natural equality, which prohi-
bits injury and eojoimands the reparation of damage
done ; the law of beneficence, and of fidelity to our en-
gagements, are laws respecting nations, and imposing,
both on the people and on their respective sovereigns,
the same duties as are prescribed to individuals." Seve-

^ 2. BurL 3, 4. 1. BurL 19$

156 LECTURES OW LAW.

ral other writers concerning the law of nations appear to
have formed the same imperfect conceptions with regard
to its extent. Let us recur to what the law of nature
dictates to an individual. Are there not dudes "^hidi he
owes to himself? Is he not obliged to consult and pro-
mote his preservation, his freedom, his reputation, hisr
improvement, his perfection, his happiness ? Now that
we have se^n the law of nature as it respects the. duties
of individuals, let us see the law of nations as it respects
the duties of states, to themselves : for we must recollect
that the law of nations is only the law of nature judici-
ously applied to the conduct of states. From the duties
of states,* as well as of individuals, to themselves, a
.number of corresponding rights will be found to arise.

A state ought to attend to the preservation of its own
existence. In what does the existence of a stiate con<»
sist ? It consists in the association of the individuals, of
which it is composed. In what consists the preservation
of this. existence ? It consists in the duration of that as-
sociation. When this association is dis&olve^? the statti
ceases to exist ; though all the members, of whom it was
composed, may still remain. It is the duty of a state,
therefore, to preserve this association undissolved and
unimpaired. But in this, as in many other instances, a
difference between the nature of states and the nature of
individuals will occiasion, for the reasons already men-
tioned, a proportioned difference in the application of
the law of nature. Nations, as well as men, are taught
by the law of nature, gracious in its precepts, to consi-
der their happiness as the great end of their existence.
But without existence there can be no haj^iness : the
means, therefore, must be secured, in order to secure
the end. But yet^ between the duty of self-preservation

LECTURES ON LAW. 157

t*^eqcfired from a state, and the duty of self-preservation
required from a man, thei'e is a most material dHFer-
ence ; and this difference is founded on the law of na-
ture itself, A nation has a right to assign to its exist-
ence a voluntary termination : a man- has not. What
can be the reasons of this difference ? Several may be
given. By the voluntary act of the individuals forming
the nation, the nation was called into existence: they
who bind, can also untie : by the voluntary act, there-
fore, of the individuals forming the nation, the nation
may be reduced to its original nothing. But it was not
by his own voluntary act that the man made his apjiear-
ance upon the theatre of life ; he cannot, therefore, plead
the right of the nation, by his own voluntary act to
make his exit. He did not make ; therefore, he has no
right to destroy himself. He alone, whose gift this state
of existence is, has the right to jiay when and how it
shall receive its termination.

Again ; though nations are considered as moral per-
sons, and, in that character, as entitled, in many re-
spects, to claim the rights, and as obliged, in many re-
spects, to perform the duties of natural persons ; yet we
must always remember that of natural persons those mo-
ral persons are composed ; that for the sake of natural
persons those moral persons were formed ; and that
while we suppose those moral persons to live, and think,
and act, we know that they are natural persons alone,
who really exist or feel, who really deliberate, resolve,
and execute. Now none of these observations resulting
. from the nature and essence of the nation, can be appli-
ed, with any degree of propriety, to thenature and es-
sence of the man : and, therefore, the inferences drawn
from these observations, with regard to the case of the
nation, are wholly inapplicable to the case of the man.

158 LSCtUABS 03r LAW.

I

One of these inferences is, that as it was for the hsq)-
piness of the members that the moral existence of the
nation was produced ; so the happiness of the members
may require this moral existence to be annihijated. Can
this inference be applied to the maA^

Further ; there may be a moral certainty, that, of the
voluntary dissolution of the nation, the necessary conse-
quence will be an increase of happiness. Can such a
consequence be predicted, with moral certainty, concern-
ing the voluntary death of the man ?

This instance shows^ in a striking manner, how, on
tome occasions, the law of nature, when applied to a
nation, may dictate or authorize a measure of conduct
very different from that, which it would authorize and
dictate with regard to a man.

, As it is, in general, the duty of a state to preserve
itself; so it is, in generial, its duty to preserve its mem-
bers. This, is a duty which it owes to them, and to itself*
It owes it to them, because their advantage was the final
cause of their joining in the association, and engaging to
support it ; and they ought not to be deprived of this
advantage, while they fulfil the conditions, on which it
was stipulated. This duty the nation owes to itself,
because the loss of its members is a proportionable loss
of its strength; and the loss of its strength is proportion-
ably injurious both to its security, and to its preserva-
tion. The result of these principles is, that the body^
of a nation should not abandon a country, a ciiy, or
even an individual, who has not forfeited his rights in
the society.

LECTURES ON LAW. I5f

The right and duty of a state to preserve its mem-
bers are subject to the same limitations and conditions^
as its right and duty to preserve itself. As, for some
reasons, the society may be dissolved; so, for others,
it may be dismembered. A part may be separated from
the other parts ; and that part may either become a new
state, or may associate with. another state already formed.
An illustration of this doctrine may be drawn from a
recent instance, which has happened in the common-
wealth of Virginia. The district of Kentucky has^ by an
amicable agreement, been disjoined from the rest of the
commonwealth, and has been formed into a separate
state. It is a pleasure, perhaps I may add it is a laud-
able pride, to be able to furnish, to the world, the
first examples of carrying into practice the most sub-
lime parts of the most sublime theories of government
and law.

r

When a nation has a right, and is under an obliga-
tion to preserve itself and its members ; it has, by a.
necessary consequence, a right to do every things which,
without injuring others, it can do, in order to accomplish
and secure those objects. The law of nature prescribes
not impossibilities: it imposes not an obligation, with-
out giving a right to the necessary means of fulfilling it.
The same principles, which evince the right of a nation
to do «very things which it lawfully may, for the pre-
servation of itself and af its members, evince its right,
also, to avoid and prevent, as much^as it lawfully may,
every thing which would load it with injuries, or threatea
it with danger.

It is the right, and generally it is the duly, of a state,
to form a constitution, to institute civil government, and
LJECTURES ON LAW.

to establish laws* If the constitution fomied^ or the
government instituted, or the laws established shalU on
experience, be found weak, or inconvenient, or pemi-
ciQus ; rt Is the right, and it is the duty of the state to
strengthen, or alter, or abolish them. These subjects
will be fully treated in another phice,

A nation ought to know itself* It ought to form a
just estimate of its own situation, both with regard to
itself and to its neighbours. It ought to learn the excel-
lencies, and the blemishes likewise of its own co^stitu**
tion. It ought to review the instances . in which it has
already attaine4, and it ought to ascertain those in which
it falls short of, a practicable degree of perfection. It
oug^t to find out what improvements are peculiarly neces^
sary to be promoted, and what faults it is peculiarly
necessary to avoid. Without a discriminating sagacity
of this kind, the principle of imitation, intended for the
wisest purposes in states a3 well as in individuals, would
be always an uncertaijci, sometimes a dangerous i^ide.
A measure extremely salutary to one state, might be
extremely injurious to another. What, in qn^ situar
tion, would, be productive of peace and happiness, mighl;,
in another, be the unfortunate cause of infelicity and
war. Above all things, the genius and naanners of
the people ought to be carefully consulted. The govern-
ment ought tb be administered agreeably to this genius
and these manners ; but how can this be done, if tliis
genius ^d these jnanners are unkpawQ? This duty o/
, self-knowledge is of vast extent and^pf va^ i^^pprtanoe,
in nations as well as in men.

To love and to deserve honest fasoije, is another duty of
a people^ as well as of aaindividual. Tl)«ar:q^tfttji^ of ^a

LECTURES ON LAW. 161

State is not only a pleasant, it is also a valuable possession.
It attracts the esteem, it represses the unfriendly inclipa-
tions of its neighbours. This reputation is acquired by
virtue, and by the conduct which virtue inspires. It is
founded on the publick transactions of the state, and on
the private behaviour of its members.

A state should avoid ostentation, but it should support
its dignity. Thiis should never be suffered to be degraded
among other nations. In transactions between states, an
attention to this object is of much greater importance
than is generally imagined. Even the marks and titles
of respect, to which a nation, and those who represent a
nation, are entitled, ought not td be considered as trivial :
they should be claimed with firmness : they should be
given with alacrity. The dignity, the equality, the mutual
independence, and the frequent intercourse of nations
render such a tenour of conduct altogether indispensable*

It is the duty of a nation to intrust the management
of its affairs pnly to its wisest and best citizens. The
immense importance of this duty is easily seen ; but it is
not sufficiently regarded. The meanest menial of a family
will not be received without examination and cautious
inquiry. The jnost important servants of the publick will
be voted in without consideration and without care. In
electioneering, as it is called, we frequently find warm
recommendations and active intrigues in favour of candi-
dates for the highest offices, to whom the recommenders
and intriguers would not, if put to the test, intrust the
management of the smallest part of their own private
interest. An election ground, the great theatre of origi-
nal sovereignty, on which nothing but inviolable integrity
and independent virtue should be exhibited, is often and

VOL. I. Y

1(512 LirCTURUB ON UIV.

lamentably transformed into a scene of the vilest aiidf
lowest debauchery and deception. An election maneuvre,
an election story, are names appropriated to a conduct,
which^ in other and inferiour transactions, would be
branded, and justly branded, with the most opprc4>rious
appellations. Even those^ who may be safely trusted
every where else, will play false at elections. The
remarks, which I have made concerning general elections,
may be too often made, with equal truth, concerning other
appointments to offices. But these things ought not to be.
When the obligation and the importance of the great
national duty required at electibns — ^a duty prescribed by
him who made us free*-^ duty prescribed that we may
continue free — when all this shaU be sufficiently diffiKsed,
and known, and felt; these things will not be. The
people will then elect conscientiously ; and will require
conscientious conduct from those whom they elect*

A nation ought to encourage true patriotism in its
members. The first step towards this encouragement is
to distinguish between its real and its pretended friends.
The discrimination, it is true,, is often difficult, some^
times impracticable : but it is equally true, thftt it na^
frequently be made. Let the same care be tmployedf
let the same pains be taken, to ascertain the marks of
deceit and me marks of sincerity in publick life, and in
intriguing for publick office, which are usually taken and
employed in private life, and in solicitations for acts of
private friendship. The care and pains will sometimes,
indeed, be fruitless ; but they will soi|fie^imeB:, t0o, be
successful; at all times, they will be faithful witnesses^
that those, who have employed them, have discharged
their duty.

X.i^TV»£4 OM LAW.

If a nation estabUflh it$elf^ or extend its establishment
in a Gountry a]ire»dy inhabited by others; it ought to
^^erve8(trict justiee, in both instances, with the former
iBiial»ta»ts* This, is a part of the law of nations, that
very iie«rly aoncems the United States. It ought, dier^«
fore, to be weH.^ndefstoctd* The whole earth is allotted
€br the nourishment of its inlwbatants -, but it ia not s\iffi«
cient for this puipoa^, unless they aid it by labour and
culture* The cultivation) of the eairth, therefore, is a du^y
incumbent on man by the order of nature. Those nations
that lii^e by .hunting, and have. more land than is necessaiy
even for the purposes, of hunting, should transfer it to
those who will make a more advantageous use of it:
tlu>ae who wUl make this use of it ought to pay, for they
can afford to pay^ a reasonable equivalent^ £ven when
^e lands are no more than sufficient for the purposes of
hunting, it is the .duty of the new inhabitants, if advanced
in society, to teach, and it is the duty of the original
inhabitfiuil^, if less advanced in society, to learn, the arts
aod uses of agriculture. This will enable the latter
jpradually to coptira<^, and the former gradually to extend
th^ir settlefl&ents, till the science of agriculture is equally
iipproved ki both* By these means, the intentions of
mature will be fulfilled f the old and the new inludbitants
will be reciprocally useful ; peace will be preserved, and
instice will be done.

It is the. duty, of a nation to augment its numbers.
The performance of this duty will naturally result from
the discharge of its other duties : by discharging them,
the ^number; of persons born in the society will be
Increased ; &ad ;strangers will be incited to wish a par-
iM^ipation >in its blessings. Among other means of
incre.9[sing the nundber of citizens, there are three of

164 - LECTUltES ON LAW.

I *

peculiar efficacy. The first is, easily to receive all
strangers oif good character, and to communicate to them
t&c advantages of liberty. The state will be thus filled
with citizens, who will bring with them commerce and
the arts, and ^ rich variety of manners and characters*
Another means conducive to the sam« end is, to encour«
age marriages. ^ These are the pledges of. the state. A
third means for augmenting the number of inhabitamts
is, to preserve the rights of conscience inviolate. The
right of private judgment is one of the greatest advanl».
ges of mankind ; and is always considered as such. To
be deprived of it is insufferable. To enjoy it lays a
foundation for that peace of mind, which the laws can-
not ^give, and for the loss of which the laws can offer no
compensation.^

A nation should aim at its perfection. The advantage
and improvement of the citizens are the ends proposed
by the social union. Whatever will render that union
more perfect will promote these ends. The same prin-
ciples, therefore, which show that a man ought to pursue
the perfection of his nature,' will show, likewise, that the
citizens ought to contribute every thing m their power
towards the perfection of the state. . This right involves
the right of preventing and avoiding every thing, which
would interrupt or retard the progress of the state towards
its perfection. It also involves the right of acquiring
every thing, without which its perfection cannot be
promoted or obtained.

Happiness is the centre, to which men and nations are
attracted : it is, therefore, the duty of a nation tb consist
its happiness. In order to do this^ it is necessary that
the nation be instructed to search for h^piness where

LECTURES ON LAW* «. 165

Happiness . is to be found. The impressions that are
made first, sink deepest; they frequently continue
through life. That seed, which is sown in the tender
minds of youth, will produce abundance of good, or
abundance of evil. ! The education of youth, therefore,
is of prime importance to the. happiness of the state
The arts, the sciences, philosophy, virtue, and religion,
■all contribute to the happiness, all, therefore, ought to
receive the encouragement, of the nation. In this man-
ner, publick and private felicity will go hand in hand, and
mutually assist each other in their progress.

When men have formed themselves into a state or
nation, they may reciprocally enter into particular engage-
ments, and, in this manner, contract new obligatiohs in
favour of the members of the community ; but they can-
not, by this union, discharge themselves from any duties
which they previously owed to those, who form no part
of the union. They continue under all the obligations
required by the universal society of the^ human race*—
the great society of nations. ^ The law of that great
and universal society requires, that each nation should
contribute to the perfection and happiness of the others.
It is, therefore, a duty which every nation owes to
itself, to acquire those qualifications, which will fit
and enable it to discharge . those duties which it owes
to others. What those duties • are, we shall now very
concisely and summarily inquire.

The first and most necessary duty of nations, as w^U *
as of men, is to do no wrong or injury. Justice is . a
sacred law of nations. If the law of the great society
of nations requires, as we have seen it to require, that
each should contribute to the perfection and happiness '

of others ; the first degree of this duty surely is^ that c»t«&
should abstain from every thing, which would positivol|^
impair that perfection and happiness. This great, {princi-
ple prohibits one nation from exciting disturbances in
another, from seducing its citizens, from deprivi^it
of its natural advantages, from calumniating its reputa-
tion, from debauching the attachment of its lUlies, from
fomenting or encouraging the hatred of its enemies*
If, however, a. nation, in the necessary prosecution of
its own duties and rights, does what is disagreeable or
even inconvenient to another, this is not to be constdere4
as an injury ; it ought to be viewed as the unavoidable
result, and not as the governing principle of its conducts
If, at such conduct, offences is taken, it is the fault of
that nation, which takes, not of that nation, which occa-
sions it.

But nations are not only forbidden to do evil ; they
are also commanded to do good to one ai^other. The
duties of humanity are incumbent upon nations as well
as upon individuals. An .individual cannot sul;>sist, at
least he cannot subsist comfortably, by himself. What
is true concerning one, is true concerning all. Without
mutual good offices and assistance, ther^ore, happiness
could not be procured, perhaps existence could, not be
preserved. Hence the necessity of the duties of huoia^
nity among individuals. Every one is obliged, in the
first place, to do what he can for himself ; in the next,
to do what he can for others ; beginning with those with
' whom he is most intimately connected. The ccmsequence
is, that each man is obliged to give to others every
assistance, for which they have a real occasion, and
which he can give without being wanting to himself.
What each is obliged to perform for others, from others

L£CTUR£8 ON LAW* 167

he is e&tided to receive. Hetice the advantage as well as
the duty of humanity. These principles receive an appli-
cation to states as well as to men. Each nation owes
to every other the duties of humanity. It is true, there
may be some difference in the application, in this as well
as in other instances : but the principles of the applica-
fion are the same. A nation can subsist by itself more
securely and more comfortably than an individual can ;
therefore the duty of mutual assistance will not, at
-all periods, be equally indispensable, or return with
equal freq^iency. But when it becomes, as it may become,
equally indispensable ; and when it returns, as it may
return, with equal frequency ; it ought, in either case,
to be equally performed. One individual may attack
another daily : a longer time is necessary for the aggres*
sion of one nation upon another. The assistance, there*
fore, which ought to be given to the individual daily,
will be necessary for the nation only at more distant
intervals of time. But between nations, what the duties
of humanity lose in point of frequency, they gain in point
of importance, in proportion, perhaps, to the difference
between a single individual, and all those individuals of
whom the nation is composed.

One nation ought to give to another, not only the
assistance necessary to its preservation, but that also
which is necessary to its perfection, whenever it is waint-
cd, and whenever, consistently with other superiour
duties, it can be given. The cases in which assistance)
ought to be demanded, and those in which it ought to
be given, must be decided respectively by that nation
which demand^, and by that of which the demand is
made* It is incumbent on each to decide properly ; not

168 LECTURES ON LAW.

to demand, and not to refuse, without strong and rea-
sonable cause.

It may, perhaps, be uncommon, but it is certainly
just, to say that nations ought to love one another. The
offices of humanity ought to flow from this pure source.
When this happily is the case, then the principles of af-
fection and of friendship prevail among states as among
individuals : then nations will mutually support * and as-
sist each other with zeal and ardour ; lasting peace will
be the result of unshaken confidence; and kind^and ge*-
nerous principles, of a nature far opposite to mean jea-
lously, crooked policy, or cold prudence, will govern
and prosper the affairs of men. And why 'should not
this be the case ? When a number of individuals, by tl^e
social union, become fellow citizens, can they, by that
union, devest themselves of that relation, which subsists
between them and the other-*-the far greater — ^pa^t of
the human species ? With regard to those, can they cease
to be men i '

The love of mankind is an important duly and an ex-
alted virtue. Much has been written, much ha& been
said concerning the power of intellectual abstraction, ^
which man possesses, and which distinguishes him so
eminently from the inferiour ordters of animals. But
little has been said, and little has been written, concern-
ing another power of the human mind, still more digni-
fied, and, beyond all comparison, more amiable — I may
call it the power of moral abstraction.

All things in nature are individuals. But when a,
number of individuals have a near and striking resem-
blance, we, in our minds, class them together, and re-

\

LECTCTRES ON LAW. 169

fer them to a species, to which we assign a name.
Again ; when a number of species have a resemblance,
though not so near and striking, we, in the same man-
ner, class them also together, and refer them to a geniis,
to which we likewise assign a name. Different genera
may have a resemblance, though still less close and
striking ; we refer them to h higher genus, till we ar-
rive at beings the highest genus of alK This is the pro-
gress of intellectual abstraction.

We are possessed of a moral power, similar in its na-
ture and in its jprogr ess— a principle of good will as w^ll
as of knowledge. This principle of benevolence is in-
deed primarily and chiefly directed towards individuals
those especially, with whom we are or wish to be most
intimately connected. But this principle, as well as the
other, is capable of abstraction, and of embracing gene-
ral objects. The culture, the improvement, , and the
extension of this principle ought to have made, in the
estimation of philosophers, as important a figure among
the moral, as the other has made among the intellectual
powers and operations of the mind ; for it is susceptible
of equal culture, of equal improvement, and of equal
extension.

" After having," says the illustrious Neckar, in his
book concerning the importance of religious opinions,*
*' proved myself a citizen of France, by my administra-
tion, as well as my writings, I wish to unite myself to a
fraternity still more extended, that of the whole human
race. Thus, without dispersing our sentiments, we may
be able to communicate ourselves a great way olF, and

g Pre£ 19.

VOL. I. z

iro

LECTURES ON. 1.AW.

enlarge, in some measure^ the limita of our circle*
Glory be to our thinking faculties for it ! to that spiri-
tual portion of ourselvesy which can take in the past,
dart into futurity, and intimately associate itself with
the destiny of men of all countries and of all. ages T'

To the same ^purpose is ^he sentiment, of Cicero, in
his beautiful treatise on the nature and offices of £riend<*-
ship. ^ ^^ In tracing the social laws of nature,'' says he^
'* it seems evident, that ma!n, by the frame of his mo-
ral constitution, is supposed to consider himstelf as
standing in some; degree of social ^relation to the whole
species in general ; and that this principle acts with more
or less vigour, according to the distance at which he is
placed with respect to any particular community or in*
dividual of his. kind*"

This principle of benevolence and sociability, which
is not coi^fined to one sect or to one state, but ranges ^^
cursive through the whole expanded theatre of men and
nations, instead of being always acknowledged and al-
ways recommended, as it ought td have been, has been
altogedier omitted by some philosophers : by some, its
existence seetns to have been doubted or denied*

" Some sort of union," says Rutherforth, in his insti-
tutes of natural law,' ^^ there is between all nations : they
are all included in the collective idea of mankinds, and
are frequently spoken of imder this general name. But
this is not a social union : the several parts of the collec-
tive idea, whether we consider the great body of mankind
as made up of individuals or of nations^ are noteomiect*-

^ c. 5.

' Vtd. 2. 463. 464.

LSCTURES ON LAW. 171

•

ed, as the several parts of a civil society are, by compact
among AemselveiT: the connexion is merely notional,
and is only made by the mind, for its own convenience.''

The very enlarged active power, concerning which I
.speak, is, to tlus day, so far as- 1 know, without an appro-
priated name. The term philanthropy approaches near,
but does lun reach.it* We sometimes call itpatriou^my
by a figurative extension of that term, which, in its proper
meaning, denotes a circle of benevolence limited by the
-«tate, of which one is a member. When we speak of the
most exalted of all characters, of the man who possesses
this virtue, we generally describe him, by a metaphor, a
** citizen of the world." A " man of the world," which
would be the more natural expression, though it is in
common use, is used to convey a very different idea.

If the general observations, which I have before made
concerning the nature, the structure, and the evidence of '
language, be well founded, the particular remarks I
have now made will appear to be striking and just.

This power of moral abstraction should be exercised
and cultivated with the highest degree of attention and
zeal. It is as necessar^*^ to the .progress of exalted virtue,
as the power of intellectual abstraction is to the progress
of extensive knowledge. The progress of the former
will be accompanied with a degree of pleasure, of utility,
and of excellence, far superiour to any degree of those
qualities, which can accompany 4ie latter. The purest
pleasures of mathematical learning spring from th^ source
of accurate and extended intellectual abs^f'action. But
those pleasures, pure as they are, must yield the palm to
those, whicl^arise from abstraction of the .moral kiad*^

173 LECTURES ON LAW*

I

By this power, exerted in difFerent proportions, the
comiponwealth of Pennsylvania, the empire of the United
States, the civilized and commercial part of the worlds
the inhabitants of the whole earth, become objects of a
benevolence the warmest, and of a spirit the most patriot-
ick ; for custom, the arbitress of language, has not yet
authorized a more appropriate epithet. By this power^
a number of individuals, who, considered sep^mtlcly, may
be so minute, so unknown, or so distant^ as to elude the
operations of our benevolence, yet, comprehended under
one important and distinguished aspect, may become a
general and complex object, which will warm and dilate
the soul. By this power the capacity of. oUr nature is ,
enlarged; men, otherwise invisible, are rendered con-
spicuous ; and become known to the heart as wdQ as to
the understanding.

This enlarged and elevated virtue ought to be culti-
vated by nations with peculiar assiduity and ardour. The
sphere of exertion, to which an individual is confined, is
frequently narrow, however enlarged his disposition may
be. But the sphere, to the extent of which a state may
exert herself, is often comparatively boundless. By ex-
hibiting a glorious example in her constitution, in her
laws, in the administration of her constitution and laws,
she may diffuse reformation, she may diffuse instruction^^
she may diffuse happiness over this whole terrestrial
globe.

How often and how fatsSly are expressions and senti-
ments perYerted ! How often and how fatally is perverted
conduct the unavoidable and inveterate effect of perverted
sentiment and expression! What immense treasures have
been exhausted, what oceans of human blood have been

LECTUKES ON LAl^. 1/3

shed, in France and England, by force of the expression
*' natural enemy !" 'Tis an unnatural expression. The
antithesis is truly in the thought : for natural enmity forms
no title in the genuine law of nations, part of the law of
nature. It is adopted from a spurious code*

The foregoing rules and maxims of national law,
though they are the sacred, the inviolable, and the exalted
precepts .of nature, and of nature's Author, have been
long unknown and unacknowledged among nations. Even
where they have been known and acknowledged, their
calm stirll voice has been drowned by the solicitations of
interest, the clamours of ambition, and the thunde^ of
war. Many of the ancient nations conceived themselves
to be under no obligations whatever to other states or the
citizens of other states, unless they could produce in their
favour a connexion formed and cemented by a treaty of
amity.

I *

At last, however, the voice of nature, intelligible and
persuasive, has been heard by nations that are civilized:
at last it is acknowledged that mankind are all brothers :
the happy time is, we hope, approaching, when the
acknowledgment will be substantiated by a uniform cor-
responding conduct.

How beautiful and energetick are the sentiments of
Cicero on this subject. " It is more consonant to nature,"
that is, as he said a little before, to the law of nations,
'* to undertake the greatest labours, and to undergo the
severest trouble, for the preservation and advantage qf
all nations^ if such a thing could be accomplished, than
to live in solitary repose, not only without pain, but sur-.
rounded with all the allurements of pleasure and wealth.

lY4f lECTUftES ON tAW*

Every one of a good and great mind, would prefer th^
iirst greatly before the second situation in life." *' It is
highly absurd to say, as some have said, that no one ought
to injure a parent or a btother, for" the sake of his own
advantage; but that another rule maybe observed con-
cerning the rest of the citizens : such persons determine
that there is no law, no bonds of society among the citi-
zens, for the common benefit of the commonwealth.
This sentiment tends to dissolve the union of the state.
Others, again, admit that a social regard is to be paid
to th6 citizens, but deny that this regard ought to be
extended in favour of foreigners : such perscins would
destroy the common society of the human race ; and If
this common society were destroyed, the destruction
would involve, in it, the fate also of beneficence, libe-
rality, goodness, justice. Which last virtue is the mis-
tress and the queen of all the other virtues.'^'* By jus-
tice here, Cicero clearly means that universal justice,
which is the complete accomplishment of the, law of
nature.

It has been already observed, that there is one part
of the law of nations, called their voluntary law, which
is founded on the principle of consent : of this part, pub-
lick compacts and customs received and observed by
civilized states form the most considerable sfrticles.

Publick compacts are divided into two kinds — ^h*eatie8
and sponsions* Treaties are made by those who are
empowered, by the constitution of a state, to represent
it in its transactions with other nations. Sponsions are

made by an inferiour magistrate or officer, on behalf of

\
\

J €ic. de off. L 3. c. 5. 6.

LECTURES ON LAW. 175

the state, but without.authority irom it. Such compacts,
therefore, do not bind the state, unless it confirms them
after. they are made. These take place chiefly in nego-'
tiations and transactions between commanding officers,
during a war*

ft

Though the power of making treaties is usually, it.is
not necessarily annexed to sovereign power; Some of
the princes and fr^e cities of Germaay, though they
hold of the emperour and the empire, have nevertheless
the right of making treaties with foreign nations : this
right, as well as several other rights of sovereignty,
the constitution of the empire has secured to them.

With a poFrcy, wiser and more profound, because it
shuts the door against foreign intrigues with the mem*
hers ^f the union, no state comprehended within our
national government, can enter into any treaty, alliance,
or confederation. ^

It is in the constitution or fundamental laws of every
nation, that we must search, in order to discover what
power it is, which has sufficient authority to contract,
with, validity, in the name of the state.

A treaty is valid, if there has been no essential defect
in "die manner, in which it has been made ; and, in order
to guard against essential defects, it is only necessary
that there be sufficient power in the contracting parties,
^that their mutual consent be given, aiid that that consent
be properly declared.

i( Glons. U. S. art. 1. 8. la

' >.

176 LECTURES Oir LAW,.

It is a truth certain in the Ikw, of nature, that he who
has made a promise to another, has given to that other a
perfect right to demand the performance of the promise. -
Nations ajid th^ representatives of nations; therefore,
ought to preserve inviolably their treaties and engage-
ments : by not preserving them, they subject themselves
to ail the consequences of violating the perfect right of
those, to whom they were made. This g^eat truth is
generally acknowledged; but too frequently an irreli-
gious disregard is shown to it in the conduct of princes
and states. But such a disregard is weak as well as
wicked. In publick as in private life,- among sovereigns
as among individuals, honesty is the best policy, as weB
as the soundest morality. Among merchants, credit is
wealth ; among states and princes, good faith is both re-i-
spectability and power.

A state, which violates the sacred faith of treaties,
violates not only the voluntary, but also the natural an<i
necessary law of nations ; for we have seen that, by the
law of nature, the fulfilment of promises is a duty as
much incumbent upon states as upon men. Indeed it is
more incumbent on the former than on the latter ; for the
consequences both of performing and of violating the
engagements of the former, are generally more impor-
tant and more lasting, than any which can flow from en-
gagements performed or violated by individuals. Hence
the strict propriety, as well as the uncommon beauty of
the sentiment — ^that if good faith were banished from
every other place, she should find an inviolable sanctusuy
at least in the bosoms of princes.

Every treaty should be illuminated by perspicuity and
candour. A tricking minister is, in real infamy, de-

LECTURES ON tAW. tTT

graded as much below a vulgar cjieat, as the dignity of
states is raised above that of private persons. Ability
and address in negotiation may be used to avoid, never
to accomplish ajsurprise.

Fraud in the subsequent interpretation, is equally
ha^e and dishonourable as fraud in the original, structure
cif treaties. In the scale of turpitude, it weig^ equally
wiih the i](iost flagrant .and notorious perfidy.

. . Treaties and alliances are either personal or real.
The first rel2i|e only to the contracting parties, and ex?
pii:e with jthose who contract. The second relate to the
state, in whose i;iame and by whose authority the con-
tract, was oiade, and ate permanent as the state itself,
unless they determine, at another period, by their own
limitation*

Every treaty or alliance made with a comn:ionwealth
is, in its own nature, real ; for it has reference solely to
the body of ,the state. When a free people make an en-
gagement, it is the nation which contracts. Its stipula-
tions depend not on the lives of those, who have been
the instruments in forming the treaty : nor even on the
lives of those citizens, who were alive when the treaty
was formed. They change ; but the commonwealth
continues the same.

Hence the stability and the security of treaties made
with commonwealths. By the faithful observance of
their treaties, the Cantons of Switzerland havejendered
themselves respectable and respected over all Europe.
Let it be mentioned to the honour of the parliament of
Great Britain, that it has frequently thanked its king for

VOL. I. A a

lYB

LECTURES OK LAW.

his zeal and attachment to the treaties, in which he has
engaged the nation.

The corruption of the best things and institutions,
however, always degenerates into the worst. The citi-
zens of Carthage prostituted the character of their re-
publick to such a degree, that, if we may believe the tes-
timony of an enemy, Punica fides became proverbial,

over the ancient world, to denote the extreme of perfidy.

«

As the United States have surpassed others, even
other commonwealths, in the excellence cff their consti-
tution and government ; it is reasonably to be hoped,
diat they will surpass them, likewise, in the stability of
their laws, and in their fidelity to their engagements.

in the great chart of the globe of credit, we hope to
see American placed as the very antipode of Carthagi-
nian faith.

CHAPTER V.

OF MUNICIPAL LAW.

JL NOW proceed to tlie consideration of municipal law— -
that rule, by which a state or nation is governed. It is
thus defined by the learned Author of the Commentaries
on the Laws of England/ ^^ A rule of civil conduct,
prescribed by the supreme power of the state, command^
ing what is right and prohibiting what is wrong."^ In my
observations upon Sir William Blackstone's definition of
law in general, I did him the justice to mention, that he
was not the first, and that he has not been the last, who
has defined law upon the same principles, or upon prin-
ciples similar, and equally dangerous. Here it is my
duty to mention, and, in one respect, i am happy in men-
tioning, that he was the first, though, I must add, he has
not been the last, who has defined municipal law, as
applied to the law of England, upon principles, to which
I must beg leave to assign the epithets, dangerous and
unsound. It is of high import to the liberties of the
United States, that the seeds of despotism be not permit-

%_•

« 1. BL Com. 44.

180 LBCTURES ON LAW. '

ted to lurk at the roots of our muaicipal litw. If they
dull be suffered to remain there, they will, at some period
or another, spring up and produce abundance of pestife-
rous fruit. Let us, therefore, examine, fully and minutely,
. the extent, the grounds, the derivation, and the conse-
quences of the abovementioned deiiniticm.

** Legislature," we are told, '* is the greatest act of
superiority, that can be exercised by one being over
another. Wherefore it is requisite to the very essence
of a law, that it be made by the supreme power. Sove«
reignty and legislature are, indeed, convertible terms ;
one cannot subsist without the other." ^ . '^ There nmst
be in every government, however it began, or by what-
/Soever rig^t it subsists, a supreme, irresistible, absolute,
uncontrolled authority, in which the/ura summi imperii^
or the rights of sovereignty reside." ^^ By sovereign
power k meant the making of laws i for wherever that
power resides, all Others must conform to and be directed
by ity whatever appearimce the outward form and adminis-
ti*ati6n of the govenunent may put on. For it is at a&y
time in the option of the legislature to alt^ that form and
administration, by a new edict or rule, and to put the
execution of the laws into whatever hands it pleases : and
all the other powers of the state must obey the legislative
power in the execution of their several functions, or else
the constitution is at an end."^ ^^ In the British parlia-
ment, is lodged the sovereignty of the British constitu-
tion."^ 'V*^^^ power of jnaking laws constitutes the
supreme authority." ^ '^ In the British parliament,"
therefore, which is the legislative power, ^^ the supreme

^ 1. BL Com. 46. « Id. 48. 49.

d Id. 51. « Id. 53.

LECTURES OM LAW. I8t

and absolute ^ithcMitf of the state is vested." ^ ^^ This
is the place, where that absolute despotick power, which
must, in all goirerniDeiits, reside somewhere, is intrusted
by the constitution of these kingdoms.*^ ^^ Its power
sind jurisdiction is so transcendent and absolute, that it
cannot be confined, either for causes or persons, within
any bounds." *f " It can change and create afresh even
the constitution of the kingdom and of piuliaments them-
selves. It can, in short, do every thing that is not natu-
rally impossible." •* What the parliament doth, no
authority upon earth can undo."^ " So long as the English
ronstitution lasts, we may venture to affirm, that the
"power of parliament is absolute and without control.".
** Hence the known apothegm of the great Lord Trea*
surer Burleigh, that England could never be ruined but
. by a parliament." j

It is obvious, that though this definition of municipal
law, and this account of legislative authority be applied
particularly to the law of England and the legislature of
Oreat Britain ; yet they are, in their terms and in their
meaning, extended to every other state or nation whate-
ver—" to every government, however it began, or by
whatever right it subsists." Indeed, the opinion of Mr.
Locke and other writers, ^^ diat them remains still inhe-
rent In the people a supreme power to remove and alter
the legislature," is considered to be so merely theoretical,
that ^^ we cannot adopt it, nor argue from it, under
liny dispensation of government at present actually exist-
ing-"''

• ■ 'I

^ 1. BL Com. 147. f Id. 160. ^ Id. 16!.

* Id. 162. i Id. 161. k Id, 161.
LECTURES ON LAW«

The doctrines contained in the foregoing quotations'
from the Comnftentaries on the laws of England, may be
comprised under the two general propositions, which
follow. 1. That in every state, there is and must be a
supreme, irresistible, absolute, uncontrolled authority,
in which the rights of sovereignty reside. 2. That this
authority, and these rights of sovereignty must reside
in the legislature ; because ^^ sovereignty and legislature
are convertible terms ," and because ^^ it is requisite to
the very essence of a law, that it b^ made by the supreme"
power." In the first general proposition, I have the
pleasure of agreeing entirely with Sir William Blackstone.
Its. truth rests on this broad and fundamental principle —
that, by the constitutions of nature, men and nations are
equal and free. In the second general proposition, I
am under the necessity of differing altogether from the
learned Author of the Commentaries. I differ from him,
not only in the opinion, that the foregoing chain of rea-
soning must be applicable to every government and to
every system of. municipal law; I differ from him likewise
in the opinion, that the foregoing chain of reasoning can
be justly applied even to the government of Great Britain
and to the municipal law of England. I think I can safely
pledge myself to show, that, in both, I differ from him
on the most solid and satisfactory grounds.

It deserves to be remarked, that, for his definition of
municipal law, he cites the authority of no English court,
nor of any English preceding writer, lawyer, or judge.
Indeed, so far as I know, he could cite no such authority.
So far as I have examined the English law books and
authorities, upon this- important subject-*and I have
examined them, as it has been niy duty to do, with no
small degree of attention — this definition stands entirely

LECTURES ON LAW. 183

unsupported in point of authority, I may, however, be
mistaken — I pretend not to have read, far less to remem*
ber, every thing in the law. If I am mistaken^*! will thank
the friendly monitor, that will advise me of the mistake.
As at present advised, I can say, that, so far as I
know, this definition is unsupported by authority in the
English law. I shall hereafter have occasion to show
that, concerning acts of parliament, to which the defini- .
tion is particularly applied, our law authorities hold,
and even parliament itself holds, a very different lan-
guage.

The introduction of the principle of superiority-^into
the definition of law in general, we traced, when we
examined that subject, from Sir William Blackstone to
Barori Puffendorif. The introduction of the same prin-
ciple into the definition of municipal law, can be traced
to the same source. " Human laws," says he, " are
nothing else, but the decrees of the supreme power,
concerning matters to be observed by the subjects." ^ The
celebrated Heineccius, in his system of Universal Law,
gives a definition much to the same purpose — " Civil
laws," says he, " are the commands of the supreme power
in a state."" Why was this principlfe transplanted into
the law of England f

It deserves to be further remarked, that, for all the
strong sentiments arid expressions concerning the neces-
sary connexion, and indeed the convertibility of the
sovereign and the legislative powers, no authority is
prodnced from the English law; and — I speak under
the guard as before — so far as I know, none could be

> Putt 688. J). 7. c. 6. 8. 3. " 2. Hein. s. 15a p. 152.

\

184 X.ECTURKS OH LAW.

{>roduced, except in one instance, of which I shall soon
take notice. The observation, which I have, already
inade with regard to the definition of municipal law,
ma^f therefore, be applied, with equal propriety, to the
necessary connexion between the sovereign and the legis-
lative p6wers. • This connexion is not attempted to be
supported by authority in the English law. I excepted
one instance. It is this — " The power and jurisdiction
of parliament is so transcendent and absolute, that it can-
not be confined, either for causes or persons, within
any bounds." " For this, the authority of my Lord Coke
in his fourth Institute is quoted. I have examined the
passage. It stands thus. ^^ Of the power and jurisdic-
tion of the parliament, y27r making of laws in proceeding
by billy it is so transcendent and absolute, as it cannot
be confined, either for causes or persons, within any
bounds."** From this authority, I think it may be fair-
ly and justly inferred — ^that, by the British constitution,
the legislative authority [of that nation is, without any
exception of causes or persons, vested in the British
parliament. In the same manner, by the constitution of
Pennsylvania, the legislative power of this common-
wealth is vested in a general assembly. But can it be
inferred from this authority, that the sovereign power
of Great Britain is vested in her parliament f Can it be
inferred from the constitution of Pennsylvania, that her
sovereign power is vested in her general assembly f 1
think, therefore, I may now venture to say, that both in
his definition of municipal law, and in his opinion con-
cerning the convertibility of the legislative and the sove-
reign authority, Sir William Blackstone stands unsup-

« 1. Bl. Com. l^- *" 4. Ins. 36. .

LECTURES ON LAW. 185

ported by authority. Tk he supported by reason and by
principle ? By neither, in my humbld opinion.

The discussion of this question necessarily leads me
to consider the establishment of government, and the di-
vision of its powers. That this sobject may be fully un-
derstood, — for, in the United States, it ought to be un-
derstood fully — I shall examine the sentiments, which
have been generally entertained and received concerning
it, and then compare those sentiments with what I con-
sider as. the true state of things. No sooner is govern*
ment mentioned, than the fine flattering images of pow-
er, dominion, and sovereignty dance in the fancy, as the
beautiful and magnificent effects of its establishment.
But the truth is, that sovereignty, dominion, and power
are the parents, not the offspring of government. Let
us, however, see what has been thought, and what
ought to be thought, concerning those splendid objects.

The theory of the establishment of government has
been generally such as I am about to explain.

' It has been supposed, that, if a multitude of people,
who had formerly lived independent of each other,
wished to unite in a political society, and to establish a
government, they would find it necessary to take the fol-
lowing steps. 1. Each individual would engage with
all the others to join in one body, and to manage, with
their joint powers and wills, whatever should regard
their common preservation, security, and happiness.
In consideration of this engagement, made by each in-
dividual with all the others, all those others would en-
gage with each individual to protect and defend him
from injury, and to secure him in the prosecution of

V VOL. I. B b

186 LECTURES ON LAW.

every just and laudable pursuit. These reciprocal en-
gagements from each individual to all the others, and
from all the others to each individual form the political
association. Those who do not enter into them are not
considered as a part of the society.

The society being formed, some measures must be
taken in order to regulate its operations ; otherwise it
could never adopt or pursue a system of measures for
promoting, jointly and effectually, the publick security
and happiness. These measures involve the formation
of government.

A third step^ we are told; must also be taken, before
government can be completed* In addition to the en-
gagement of political association, another engagement
must be made : to that engagement, there must be a
new party. What he is— whence he comes— from what
source his equal and independent powers of contracting
originate, have never, to this moment, been explained.
Such an account of him as I have received, I will give :
if it is not satisfactory, you must not blame me. ^^ This
party is one or more persons, on whom the supreme au-
thority is conferred," says one. ^ By another, we are
told, th^t this party is one or more persons, on whom
**the sovereignty is conferred."*^ The sovereignty or
supreme authority ! How has it started up all of a sud-
den ? Why does it make its first appearance in a deriva-
tive state ? Where do we find it originally ? — for it must
exist originally before it can be conferred. To these
questions we receive no explicit answer. We are told
at one time; that ^^ there are, in each individual, the

P 2. Burl. 28. . q Puff. 640. b. 7. c 2. «. 8.

LECTURES OK LAW. l%7

seeds, as it were, of the supreme power."'' We are
told, more cautiously, at another time, that the volun*
tary consent and subjection of the respective members of
the society, is the ^' nearest and immediate cause, from
which sovereign authority, as a moral quality, results." ■
But, to make the most of these different pieces of in-
formation, let us suppose that this cause will produce its
proper effects ; that these seeds will yield, in due time,
their natural fruits ; and that thi« conferred sovereignty
existed originally in those who conferred it. What is this
sovereignty i Is it divisible or indivisible? Was the
whole or only a part of it conferred i Was i£ conferred
unconditionally, or upon certain conditions? Was it
conferred gratuitously, or for a valuable consideration ?
Why hear we nothing concerning these important steps,
which, upon the opinion generally received, must have
been taken previously to the complete .formation of a
government? This, I confess, is far from being satis-
factory : let us, l^>wever, take it as it is ; and proceed
to the remaining step, which, we are told, is taken for
the complete establishment of government. This is an
engagement by those, who are to be the future govem-
ours, that they wiH consult most carefully and act most
honestly for the common security and happiness ; and a
reciprocal engagement by those,* who are, in future, to
be governed, that they will observe fidelity and alle-?
griance to those invested with the sovereign authority^

It is admitted not to be probable, that, in the format
tion of the several governments, these three steps have
been actually and regularly taken ; yet, we are told, in
every just institution of power, there must hav^ been

»• 3. BurL 42. « PuE 6^4. b. 7. e. 3. $. 1.

188 LECTURES ON LAW.

such transactions as implicitly contain the full force and
import of all of them. *

That the two first steps have been sometimes taken,
and must be always supposed, in the regular structure of
a government, I readily agree ; because it is not easy to
discover how a government could be formed without
them. But with regard to the third, 1 see no necessity
for it : I see no propriety in it : it is derogatory, In my
humble judgment, from the genuine principles of legiti-
mate sovereignty, and inconsistent with the best theory^
and the best exercise too, of supreme power. But the
full illustration of these dignified subjects is reserved for
another place.

With regard, however, to the British constitution^
we must allow the supposition, that a contract took place
at its establishment. For this we have high political
authority. A full assembly of the lords and commons^
met in convention in the year 1688, declared that James
the second had broke the original contract between the
king and people. ° What the terms of that contract
were, at what time it was made, and what duties it en?-
joined, have been subjects of dark and doubtful dispu^
tation. For this reason, as we are told by Sir William
Blackstone, it was, after the revolution, judged proper
to declare these duties expressly, and to reduce that con-
tract to a plain certainty. So that, whatever doubts
might be formerly raised, by weak and scrupulous minds,
about the existence of such an original contract, they
must now entirely cease ; especially with regard to every
prince, who has reigned since that revolution. ^

* 2. Hutoh. 22r. » 1. m. Com. 211. 212. ▼Id, 233.

LECTUREft ON LAW. 189

But, after all, what will this prove with regard to the
supreme power of parliament ? Do we hear, in the British
constitution, of any contract between them and the people?
How came they to be invested with such immense autho-
rity? The usual theories of government support no
hypothesis of this kind, even in favour of the British
legislature ; far leas, in favour of the legislature of every
other government, "however formed, or by whatever
right subsisting."

Let us trace this matter a little farther : let us endea-
vour to form some just conceptions concerning this
supreme and sovereign power, concerning which so much
has been said, and concerning which so little has been
said jusdy. Let us turn our eyes, for a while, from
books and systems : let us fix them upon men and things.
While those, who were about to form a society, conti-
nued separate and independent men, they possessed
separate and independent powers and rights. When the
society was formed, it possessed jointly all the previously
separate and independent powers and rights of the indi-
viduals who formed it, and all the other powers and
rights, which resuU from the social unioiK The aggregate
of these powers and these rights composes the sovereignty
of the society or nation. In the society or nation this
sovereignty originally exists. For whose benefit does it
e^^ist ? For the benefit of the society or nation. Is it
necessary for the benefit of the society or nation, that,
the moment it exists, it should be transferred ? — This
question ought, undoubtedly, to be seriously considered,
and, on the most solid grounds, to be resolved in the
affirmative, before the transfer is made. Has this ever
been done ? Has it ever been evinced, by unanswerable
arguments, that it is necessary to the benefit of a society

190 LECTURES ON LAW.

to transfer all those rights and powers, and the results of
^11 those rights and powers, which the members once pos-
sessed separately Y but which the society now possess
jointly? I think such a position has never been evinced
to be true. Those powers and rights were, I think,
collected to be exercised and enjoyed, not to be alienated
and lost. All these powers and rights, indeed, cannot,
in a numerous and extended society, be Exercised per-
sonally ; but they may be exercised by representation «
One of those powers and rights is to make laws for the
government of the i^ation. This power and right may
be delegated for a certain period, on certain conditions,
under certain limitations, and to a certain number of
persons. I ask — Is it necessary that, along with this
power and this right, all the other powers and rights of
the nation should be delegated to the same persons ? I
ask farther — is it necessary, that all those other powers
and rights should be delegated without any right of
resumption ? — Another of those powers and rights is
that of carrying the laws into execution. May not thtf
society delegate this right for another period, on other
conditions, with other limitations, and to other persons I
A third right and power of the society is .that of admi-
nistering justice under the laws. May not this right be
delegated for still another period, on still other conditions^
under still other^ limitations, and to still other perscms ?
Or may not this power and right be partly delegated and
partly retained in personal exercise f For, in* the most
extended communities, an important part of the admi-
nistration of justide may be discharged by the people
themselves. All this certainly may be done. All this
certainly has been done, as I shall have the pleasure of
showing, when I come to examine the American govern,
ments, and to point out, by an enumerattion and compa-

LECTURES ON LAW. 191

rison of particulars, how beautifully^ how regularly, and
how usefully we have established, by our practice in
this country, principles concerning the reservation, the
distribution, the arrangement, the direction, and the
uses, of publick authority, of which even the just theory
is still unknown in other nations.

Let us now pause and reflect. After what we see can
be done, after what we see has been done, in the delega-
tiofi and distribution of the rights and powers of society;
can we subscribe to the doctrine of the Commentaries —
that the authority, which is legislative must be supreme?
Can we consent, that this doctrine should form a first
principle in our system of municipal law ? Certainly not*
This definition is not calculated for the meridian of the
United States.

, I go farther — It is not calculated for the meridian of
Great Britain. In order to show this, as.it ought to be
shown, it will be necessary to enter into a disquisition
concerning the component parts and powers of the British
parliament, and the origin, kinds, and properties of the
Englfsh municipal law; the greatest and best proportion
of which was never made by a parliament at all.

The British parliament consists of three distinct bran-
ches; the king, the house of lords, and the house of
commons. To that species of English law, which is
called a statute, the assent of all the three branches is
necessary. When it has received the assent of all the
three, it becomes a law and is obligatory upon the nation ;
but it is obligatory upon different parts of it for different
reasons. " An act of parliament," says my Lord Hale,
'^ is made, as it were, a tripartite indenture, between
LECTURES ON LAW.

the king, the lords, and commons ; for unthont the con-
current consent of all those three parts of the legislature,
no such law is or can be made." ^ What is an indenture ?
The Commentaries will teU us, that it is a species of
deed, to which there are more parties.than onie. * What
is the first requisite of a deed ? The Commentaries will
also tell us, " that there be persons able to contract, and
be contracte4 with." ^ If a deed is a contract or agree-
ment ; if an indenture is a species of deed, to which
there are more parties than one ; if an act of parliament
may be' called an indenture tripartite, because there are
three parties to it — ^the king, the lords, and the com^
mons ; we find, that an act, which, considered indistilict-
\y and dignified by the name of law, requires the whole
supreme power of the nation to give it birth, is, when
viewed more closely and analyzed into the component
parts of its authority, properly arranged under the class of
contracts. It is a contract, to which there are three par-
ties ; those, who constitute one of the three parties, not
acting even in publick charactets. A peer represents no
one; he votes for himself; and when he is absent, he
may transfer his right of voting to another. This m&y
be thought a very free way of treating what is represent-
ed as necessarily an emanation of sovereign authdrity ;
but it is treating it truly ; and give me leave to add, it is
treating it accurately. Besides ; I shall not be ashamed
of treading in a path, though even a foot path, to which
I am directed by the finger of the enlightened Lord
Hale. That path, to which he points, will lead to in*
struction. Let us pursue it— To this indenture there are
three parties : to an indenture the power of contracting
in each of the parties • is necessary. What is the power

\

w Hale's Hi»t 2

3. BL Com. 295.

y Id. 296.

LECTURES ON LAW. . 193

of contracting in the different parts ? The king contracts
for himself, and as representing the executive authority
of the nation. The peers engage in their private and
personal rights/ The members of the house of commons
l3ii:id themselves and those whom they represent. They
represent, or are supposed — ^how justly is immaterial to
our present argument — ^to represent ** all the commons
of the whole realm.'' * We all know, that one may exe-
cute an instrument, either in person, or by an attorney :
-we all know that an instrument may be executed by a
person in his own right and as attorney also. Perhaps it
"would not be improper if, on some occasions at least)
the forms, as well as the principles, of private, were
copied into publick, transactions. Permit me to mention
an instance, in which ihis was lately done. In the rati-
fication of the constitution of the United States by
the convention of Pennsylvania, the distinct charac-
ters, in which the members of that convention acted,
are distinctly marked. " We the delegates of the
people of the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in general
convention assembled, do, in the name and by the autho- ,
rity of the same people, and for ourselves, assent to and
ratify the foregoing constitution for the United States
of America."

The foregoing, though a very familiapf^must, I thinl;,
be p^dmitted to be a very intelligible and satisfactory illus-
tration and analysis of the manner, in which acts of
parliament are made and become obligatory. For my
own part, I cannot conceive how the truth, or the real
dignity of a subject, can suffer by being closely inspected.
When the exclamation— procul este — is made, I am led

' 4. Ins. 1.

VOL. I. c c

194 LECTURES ON LAW.

to suspect, that a secret cOBscious want of dignity . or
integrity is the cause. The plain smd simple analysis,
which I have given, of the nature and obligatipn of acts
of parliament is evidently countenanced by tlie expres-
sive legal language of my Lord Hale — It is supported
and confirmed by the very respectable authority of my
Lord Hardwicke. " The binding force — " I use bis
very words, as they are reported—" the binding ^orce
of these acts of parliament arises from that prerogative,
which is in the king, as our sovereign liege lord ; from
that personal right, which is inherent in the pqers and lords
of parliament to bind themselves and their heirs and suc-
cessours in their honours and dignities i and from the
delegated power vested in the commons, as the repre-
sentatives of the people; and, therefore, Lord.Coke says,
4. Inst. 1 • these represent the . whole conaoiou^ of the
realm, and are trusted for them. By reason of this
representation, every man is said to be a party to, and
the consent of every subject is involved in, an act of
parliament." * " Every man in England," says the
Author of the Commentaries himself, " is, in judgment
of law, party to the making of an act of parliament*
being present thereat by his representatives." •* What is
there in all this, that necessarily implies the irresistible
energ}'^ of power, which is sovereign and supreme, with-
out limits and without control?

We have already seen all the parties to an act of par-
liament. Let us, again, take a deliberate and distinct
view of them : where shall we find the sovereign and
supreme power ? In the king ? It is true, that he is called
by my Lord Hardwicke " sovereign liege lord," and

» 2. ^tk. 654. fc 1. BL Com. 185.

/

LECTURES ON LAW. 195

that his prerogative, as such, is assigned, and with much
propriety, as one of the sources, from which " the bind-
ing force of acts of parliament arises." The legal and
constitutional import of the expressions, sovereign liege
lord, is well known. Thejr present the king to his sub-
jects as the object of their allegiance : they present him
to foreigners as exercising the whole authority of the
nation in foreign transactions. To foreign transactions,
the British parliament is no party : to foreign nations, the
British parliament is totally unknown. Alliances, trea-
ties of peace, even declarations of war, are made in the
name, and by the constitutional authority, of the king
alone. But, it has never been pretended, that the pre-
rogative of the king, as sovereign liege lord, extended
80 far as to bind his -subjects by his laws. Even Henry
the eighth, tytBnt as he was, knew that an act of parlia-
ment was necessary, if even that could be sufficient, to
endow his proclamations with legal obligatory force.
But the king, by assentmg to an act of parliament, can
bind himself ; and he can bind all that portion of the
sovereign power of the nation, which is intrusted to his
management and care. And it is certainly proper, that,
as he represents the executive aud the foreign powers of
the nation, he should be consulted in the making of the
national laws. From this short and clear deduction, we
evidently see, that the absolute, uncontrolled power,
mentioned by Sir William Blackstone as inseparable
from legislative authority, is not to be found in the king.
Is it to be found in the house of lords I4 That will not be
pretended. Their votes bind not a single person in the
nation, except themselves and the heirs and successours'of
their honours and dignities. Let us go to the house of
commons : is this supreme power, which elsewhere we
have searched for in vain, to be found among the mem-

196^ LECTURES ON LAW.

bers of this house ? la what character ? la their own^
right ? This will aot be alleged* As representatives I
As represeatatives, they act, not by their own power^
but by the power of those whom they represent. This
power, therefore, whatever it is, cannot be fpfUnd among
the members of the house of commons, it must be look*
ed for among their constituents. There, indeed, we
shall find it : and the ^noment we find it, we shall dis«
cover its nature' and- extent. The king and the com-
mons assembled in parliament are invested by the whole
nation, except the house of lords, who act in their owti
right, not with ^' transcendent and absolute power and
jurisdiction" generally, as one would naturally conclude
from the unqualified expressions of Sir William Black-
stone ; but with this ^^ transcendent and absolute power
and jurisdiction for the mailing of /aw«,"^a9 we find in
the determinate language of my Lord Coke. To the
making of laws, this power and jurisdiction of the Bri-
tish parliament is strictly and rigidly confined. A sin-
gle law the British parliament cannot execute : in a sin«
gle cause, the British parliament cannot administer jus-
tice. Why then should " absolute despotick power," to
use the language of the Commentaries, be ascribed to
the British parliament ? Has this doctrine a solid foun*
-dation ? I presume it has not. But though it has not a
solid foundation, it has produced, as I shall hereafter
show, the most pernicious effects^ I will acknowledge
freely, that the bounds, which circumscribe the authori-
ty of the Britisl^ parliament, are not sufficiently accu-
rate : I will acknowledge farthei:, that they are not'su&
ficiently stroag. But can this suggest a reason or a mo«
tive for denying their existence ? It strongly suggests^
ihdeed, reasons and motives of a very different kind.
It suggests the strongest reasons and motives for cir-

LECTURES ON LAW, ' 19T

cumBCribing the authority of the British parliament by
limits more accurate, for forlifying those limits with an
additional degree of strength, and for rendering the
practice more conformable than it now is, to the theory
of its institution — ^for rendering the house of commons
in £au:t, what it is presumed to be i^ law, '*" a representa^
tion of all the commons of the whole realm." If any
thing coming from this chair could be supposed, by pos-
sibility, to produce the smallest effect in that nation, I
would warmly recommend to it the accomplishment of
those great objects, as consummations most devoutly to
be wished. The maxim of the great Lord Bhrleigh has
prevailed long enough : let it make way for a better. In»
stead of saying, that ^^ England can never be ruined ^
but by a parliament ;" let it be said, and truly said, that
** E^ngland can never be ruined but by herself."

The learned Author of the Commentaries distin-
guishes between a -law and a counsel; and also between
a law and an agreement. I will examine the principle
of these distinctions, in order that its strength or weak-
ness may appear. It will be necessary to mention what
is said in the Commentaries upon this subject. ^' Muni-
cipaLlaw is called a rukj to distinguish it from advice or
eounsely which we are at liberty to follow or not, as we
see proper, and to judge of the reasonableness or un-
reasonableness of the thing advised : whereas our obe-
dience to the law depends not upon our approbation,. but
upon the maker's will. Counsel is only matter of per-
suasion ; law is matter of injunction : counsel acts only •
upon the willing ; law upon the unwilling also.

^^ It^is also caUed a rule^ to distinguish it from a c^m-
pact or agreement : for a compact is a promise proceed-

198 LECTURES OK LAW,

ing from us ; law is a command directed to us. The
language of a compact is, * I will, or will not, do this ;'
that of a law is, *thou shalt^ or shalt not, do this.'
It is true, that there is an obligation, which a compact
carries with it, equal, in point of conscience, to that of
a law ; but then the original of the obligation is differ-
ent. In compacts, we ourselves determine and promise
what shall be done, before we are obliged to do it ;
in laws, we are obliged to act, without ourselves deter-
mining or promising any thing at all." *^

The examination of the principle, which lies at the
root of these distinctions, is an interesting subject in-
deed. If these distinctions can be supported, we may
bid a last adieu to the maxim which I have always deem-
ed of prime importance in the science of government
and human laws — ^a free people are governed by laws, of
which they approve. Before we part from this darling
position, let us, at least, cast behind us, a ^^onging,
lingering look." r '

Upon these passages in the Commentaries, I make
remarks similar to those, which I made upon the pas-
sages examined some time ago. No authority in the
English law is adduced — ^none, so far as I know, could
be adduced to support them. These sentiments con-
cerning law, as well as the definitions of municipal law,
and law in general, may be traced to the performan<5e of
Baron Puffendorff. Let us see what this performance
says. ** Law differs from counsel in this, that by the
latter a man" — ^** has no proper power, so as to lay any
direct obligation on another; but must leave it to his
pleasure and choice whether he will follow the counsel

A

c 1. BL Com. 44 45.

LECTURES ON LAW* 199

or not." " But law, though it ought not to want its rea-
sons, yet these reasons are not the cause why obedience
is paid to it, but the power of the exacter, who, when
he has signified his pleasure, lays an obligation on the
subject to act in conformity to his decree." " We obey
laws, hot principally on account of the matter of them,
.but upon account of the legislator's will. And thus law '
is the injunction of him, who has a power over those, to
whom he prescribes ; but counsel comes from him, who
has no such power." " Counsel is only given to those,
who are willing to have it; but law reaches the un-
willing."^

^' Neither are those ancients accurate enough in their
expressions, who frequently apply to laws the name of
common agreements. ^^ " The points of distinction between
a compact or covenant aAd a law, are obvious. F^or a
compact is a promise^ but a lamv is a command. In com*
pactSj the form of speaking is, I will do so and so ; but in
laxos^ the form runs, do thou so, after an imperative
manner. In compacts^ since they depend, as to their
original, on our will^ we first determine what is to be
done, before we are obliged to do it ; but in taxvs^ which
suppose the power of others over us, we are, in the first
place, obliged to act, and afterwards the manner of acting
is determined. And, therefore, he is not bound by a
compact y who did not freely tie himself by giving his.
consent : but we are, for this reason, obliged by a law ;
because we owed an antecedent pbedience to its author."*^

You now see, that these distinctions between a law
aiid an agreement, a law and a compact are adopted from

* Puff 58. 59. b. 1. c. 6. s. 1. « Puff! 59. b. 1. c. 6. s. 2.

200, LECTURES OH LAW.

*

Baron PuffendorfF: whence he derived them, it is imma-
terial to inquire. But it is material to show, as I think
I can tlo unanswerably, ^hat these distinctions, if they
could be supported, would overturn the beautiful temple
of liberty from its very foundations. It is material also
to show, as I think I can do unanswerably, that the fair
temple of liberty stands unshaken and undefaced ; and
that the sole legitimate principle of obedience to human
laws is human consent. Tljis consent may be authenti-
cated in different ways : in its different stages of existence,
it may a&sume different name& — approbation-^— ratification
— experience : but in all its different shapes — ^under all
its different appbllations, it may easily be resolved into
this proposition, simple, natural, and just — All human
laws should be founded on the consent of those, who
obey them. This great principle I shall, in the course
of these lectures, have occasion to follow in a thousand
agreeable directions. My present business, while I
examine iJie principles of municipal law as deli^red in
tjhe Comme^taries, is to apply them and the examination
of them to ihe law of England. In that law, we shall
find the stream of authority running, from the most early
periods, uniform and strong in the directipn of the prin-
ciple of consent — ^consent, given originally— consent,
given in the form of ratification— ^and, what is most
satisfactory of all, consent given after long, approved, and
uninterrupted experience. This last, I think, is the
principle of the common law. It is the most salutary
principle of obedience to human laws, that ever was
diffused among men. With such a Byzantium before
him, is it not astonishing, indeed, that the attention —
must I say the attachment ? — -of Str William Btackstone
should have been attracted towards a Chalcedon ?^

f 3. Gibbon. 6. 7. Tac. Ann. XII. 63.

J.ECTtJRES ON LAW. 201

The ancient coronation oath of the kings of England
obliged them, to the utmost' of their power, to cause
those laws to be observed, " which the men of the people
have made and chosen." «

Let us next pay the respect, which is due to the cele-
brated sentiment of the English Justinian, Edward the
fitst. ." Lex justissima, ut quod omnes tan git, ab omni-
bus approbetur." It is a most just law, that what affects
all should'be ^approved by all. This golden rule is, with
great propriety, inserted in his summons to his parlia-
ment. The Lord Chancellor Fortescue, in his most excel-
lent tractate concerning the English laws, informs his
royal pupil,' that the statutes of England are frameil,
not by th« will of the prince, but by that and by the
assent of the whole kingdom. ** Angliae statuta, neduni
principis voluntate, sed et totius regni assensu, ipsa con-
duntur." And if a statute, though passed with the
greatest . caution and Solemnity, should be found, on
experience, not to reach those purposes, which were
intended by its framers, it can soon be reformed; but
not without the same.assent of the peers and commonalty
of the kingdom, from which it originally flowed. " Et
si statuta hsec, tanta solennitate et prudentia edita, effi-
caciae tantae, quantae conditorum cupiebat intentio, non
esse contingant, correcto reformari ipsa possunt ; et non
sine communitatis et procerum regni illius assensu, quali
ipsaprimitus emanarunt."^ "To, an act of law, statute or
common, every man,^' says Lord Chief Justice Vaughan,
** is as much consenting, and more solemnly, than he is

^ 1. Bl. Com. 3S6, note. '< que lez gentez du people avont &itez^
et esliez."

^ Fortes, c. 18.

VOL. I. ♦ D d

202 LECTURES OS LAW.

to his own private deed." » Authorities to the same pur-
pose might, without end, be heaped upon authorities
from the law books. I forbear to trouble you with, any
more of them. Let us have recourse to what I may
properly call a peipetually standing authority upon thia
very important subject — ^the writ for choosing membecs
of parliament. It commands the sheriff of each county
to cause two knights, the most fit and discreet of the
county, and two citizens from every city, and two bur*
gesses from every borough within the county, to be
chosen according to law — ^^ So that the said knights haf e
full and sufficient power for themselves, J and the com-
monalty of the said county, and the said citizens and
burgesses for themselves and the commonalty ^ of th^
said cities and boroughs, severally from them, to do and
consent to those things, which, by the favour of God>
shall happen to be ordained by the common council of
the kingdom : so that for default of such power, or
through improvident election of the said knights^^itizens^

i Vaugh. 392. ^

3 It is the wisdom of the English law, that acts of pariiaraent
are equally binding to the makers of them as to the rest of the peoj^.
Tlie makers are empowered for themselves, as well as for their
constituents; and themselves, as well as their constituents must
taste the sweet or bitter fruits of their own works. This suggests
a powerful motive for caution and justice in their determinations^
(2. Whitlocke 87,) But this dectrine ill agrees with the new and
foreign theory, introduced into the Commentaries — ^^ A law always
supposes some superlour, who is to make it.'* 1. BL Com. 43.

^ It is a great trust reposed in members of parliament, to have
the power of the whole commonalty of a county, or city, or borough
conferred oh them. The acts of the members are the acts of ihe
commonalty, from whom they have their power, and who are bound
by them. 2.. Whitlocke 89.

LECTURES ON LAW* 303

or burgesses, the said affairs remain not undone/' ^ Can
language be more explicit to show the principle, upon
which acts of parliament must be made, and consequently
the principle, upon which alone they ought to be obeyed?
It is directed, that the members have full and suftcient
powers for themselves^ and for their constituents from
their constituents. This is precisely according to the
analysis, which we have already given of the power of
parliament. Why are those *povirers necessary? To do
and consent to those things, which shall be ordained by
parliament. Those powers are absolutely necessary ;
for, without them, the business of the nation would
remain undone. Is it possible, that any one, who has
ever seen this venerable and authentick legal instrument,
could stippose, that the sovereign power of the nation
was vested in the parliament of Great Britain ? Is it
pos&ible, that one who has seen this writ could forget
the rock, from which the members were hewn, and
the hole of the pit from which they were dug ? The
humble servants, who must come furnished with ^^ full
and sufficient power from" their masters ^^ the common-
alty of the county, and the burgesses and the citizens
separately—" " Divisim,^ one by one— have those hum-
ble servants, nrfien assembled together, the uncontrolled
powers of the nation in their hands ? When they are
intrusted with the legislative, may they, therefore, assume
also the executive and the judicial powers of their
coimtry ?

We now see, in a very striking point of view, the
strong and expressive import of the language of my
Lord Hale, when he says, that an act of parliament is^

1 1. Whitlocke 3. 3.

304 LECTURBS ON LAW.

as it were, a tripartite indenture, between the king, .the
lords, and the commons. , They form three parties : each
party has power to contract. The king cdntracts in bis
own right — ^for the king is also a man — and in conse-
quence of the powers devolved on him by that original
contract, long supposed, but, at the revolution of 1688,
expressly recognized to have been made between hitki
and the people. The lords of parliament contract soldiy
in their own right. The members of the house of com-
mons contract in their own right, for themselves, and in
right of their constituents, for the commonalty .of the
whole realm. Thus we find every party and every^
power to form a contract, a compact, or an agreement-^
for these terms are synonimous— in the strictest and
most proper sense of the words. The vital principk of
every contract is the consent of the mind. My Lord
.Hale did not draw the obligatory principle of an act of
parliament from a foreign fountain : he drew it, pure
and clear, from its^ native springs.

Sir William Blackstone tells us, that the original of
the obligation, which a compact carries with it, is dif-
ferent from that of a law. The original of the obliga-
tion of a compact we. know«to be consent : the original
of the obligation of , an act of parliament we have traced
minutely to the very same source.

But acts of parliament are not the only — let us add,
• they are not the principal — species of law, known and
obligatory in £ngland. That, kingdom boasts in the
common law. In the countenance of that law, every
lovely feature beams consent. This law is of vast im-
portance. By it, the proceedings and decisions of courts
of justice are regulated and directed. It guides the

I.ECTURES ON LAW* . . 205

course of descents and successions to real estates, and
limits their extent and qualifications: it appoints the
forms and solemnities of acquiring^ of securing, and bJF
transferring property : it prescribes the manner and the
obligation of contracts : it establishes the rules, by which
contracts, wilis, deeds, and even acts of parliament are
interpreted. °* This law is founded on long and general
custom. A custom, that has been long and generally
observed, necessarily carries with it intrinsick evidence
of consent. Caution and prudence are universally re-
commended in the introduction of new laws : can caution
and prudence be so strongly Exemplified — can their fruits
be so certainly reaped in any other laws, as in those that
are established by custom ? The prospect of convenience
invites to the first experiment: a first experiment, suc-
cessful, encourages to make a second. The successful
experiments of one man or one body of men induce
another man or another body of men to venture upon
similar trials. The instances are multiplied and extend-
ed, till, at length, the custom becomes universal and
established. Can a law be made fti a manner more eligi-
ble? Experience, the faithful guide 6f life and busi-
ness, attends it in its every Step. Other laws demand to
be taken upon trust : a good countenance is their only
recommendation. Those, who introduce them, can only
say, in their favour, that they look well. A customary
law, with a modesty appropriate to conscious merit, asks
for admittance only upon trial, and claims not tovbe con-
sidered as a part of the political family, till she can es-
tablish a character, founded on a long and intimate ac-
quaintance. The same means, by which the character
of one law is known and approved, are employed to try

* Hale's Hist. 24.

206 LECTUKES ON LAw/

and discriminate the character of every other. In fa-
vour of ever}^ one that is recommended, it can be said,
not only, that it. has lived unexceptionably by itself, but
also that it has lived in peace and' harmony with aQ the
others. In this manner, a system of approved and con- ■
cording laws is gradually, though slowly, collected and
formed. By a process of this kind, the immortal New-
ton collected, arranged, and formed his just and beauti-
ful system of experimental philosophy. By the same
kind of process, our predecessors and ancestors have
collected, arranged, and formed a system of experimen-
tal law, equally just, equally beautiful, and, important
as, Newton's system is, far more important stiD. This
system has stood the test of numerous ages : to every
ag^ it has disclosed new beauties and new truths. In im-
provement, it is yet progressive ; and what has been said
poetically on another occasion, may be said in the strict-
est form of- asseveration on this, — it acquires strength in
its progress. From this system, we derive our dearest
birthright and richest inheritance. The rise, the pro-
gress, the history, an(f the component parts of this in-
valuable system; its extension to America, and the
principles of its establishment in the several states and in
the national government, it will be my duty and my
pleasure to trace and to exhibit in the course of -these
lectures. My present business is, to ascertain the ori-
gin of its obligatory force. Surely, this may be done
with ease. The common law is founded on long and
general custom. On what can long and general .custom
be founded ? Unquestionably, on nothing else, but free
and voluntary consent* The regions of custom afford a
most secure asylum from the operations of absolute, des-
potick power. To the cautious, circumspect, gradual,
and tedious probation, which a law, originating from

\

f

LECTURES ON LAW. SOT

/

custom, must undergo, a law darted from compulsion
-will never submit.

*' Sic volo, sic jubeo, stct pro ratione voluntas," is the
motto of edicts, proclaimed, in thunder, by the voice of
a human superiour. Far dissimilar are the sentiments
expressed in calm and placid accents by a customary law.
I never intruded upon you : I was invited upon trial : this
trial has been had : you have lonjg^ known me : you have
long approved me : ^hall I now obtain an establishment
in your family ? A customary law carries with it the
most unquestionable proofs of freedom in the country,
which is happy enough to ht the place of its abode.

Some truths are too plain to be proved. That a law,
tvhich has been established by long and general custom,
must have received its origin and introduction from free
dnd voluntary consent, is a position that must be evident
to every one, who understands the force and meaning of
the terms, in which it is expressed. My object is to
imprint, as well as to prove, this great political doctrine.
Perhaps this cannot be done better, than by laying before
you the sentiments, which an English parliament held
upon this subject, above two hundred years ago. You
will see how strongly they support the principle — that
the obligation of human laws arises from consent. The
sentiments were expressed on an occasion similar to one,
which will still suggest matter of very interesting recol-
lection to many minds — They were expressed when an
attempt was made to establish, in England, a foreign
jurisdiction. With becoming indignation against it, the
parliament declare — ^^Xhis realm is free from subjection
to any man's laws, but only to such as have been devised,
made, and Obtained within this realm, for the wealth of
LECTURES ON LAW.

the same, or to such as, by sufferance of your grace and
your progenitors, the people of this your realm have taken
at their free libert)', with their own consent to be used *
amongst them, and have bound themselves hy long use and
custom to the observance of the same, not as to the obser-
vance ©flaws of amy foreign prince, potentate, or prelate,
but . as to the customed and ancient laws of this realm,
originally established as. laws of the same, by the said
sufferance, consents, and customs, and none otherwise.".

Some writers, when they describe that usage, which
is the foundation of common law, characterize it by the.
epithet immemorial. The parliamentary description is
not so strong. ** Long use and custoni" is assigned as
the criterion of law, " taken by the people at their free
liberty, and by their OMm consent." And this criterion
is surely sufficient to satisfy the principle ; for consent
is certainly proved by long, though it b6 not immemorial
usage.

That consent is the. probable principle of the common
law, is -admitted by the Author of the Conamentaries
himself. *^ It is one of the characteristick marks of
English liberty," says he,** "that our common law
depends upon custom, which carries this internal evidence
of freedom along with it, that it probably was introduced
by the voluntary consent of the people." I search not
for contradictions : I wish to reconcile what is seemingly
contradictory. But, if the common law could be intro-
duced, as it is admitted it probably was, by the voluntary
consent of the people ; I confess I can not reconcile with
this— -certainly a solid-^princi||e, the principle that

n St.25.H.8.c2I.s. 1.

<» 1. Bl. Com. 74.

LECTURES ON LAW. 209

i€

A law always supposes s6me superiour, who is to make
it," nor another principle, that " sovereignty and legis-
lature are indeed convertible terms."

A power, far beneath the sovereign power, may be
invested with legislative authority ; and its laws may be
as obligatory as any other human laws. Of this, instances
occur even in the government of Great-Britain.

It is necessarily and inseparably incident to all corpo-
rations, to make by-laws, or private statutes, for their
government. These laws afe binding upon themselves,
unless contrary to the laws of the land, and then they
are void.P From these positions, we clearly infer, that
laws, obligatory upon those for whom they are made,
may b^ enacted by a power, so far from being absolute
and supreme, that its laws are void, when contrary to
those enacted by a superiour power: so far do sovereignty
and legislature, in this instance at least, appear to be from
convertible terms : so far is it from being requisite to
the very essence of a law, that it be made by the supreme
power. Sir William Blackstone tells us, that in the
provincial establishments in America, the assemblies had
the power of making local ordinances ; that subordinate
powers of legislation subsisted in the proprietary govem-
ments ; and that, in the charter governments, the assi^m-
blies made laws, suited to their own emergencies:^ and
yet, in these instances, he certainly did not admit, that
*5 by sovereign power is meant the making of laws."

I hope I have now shown, that the definition of muni-r
cipal law in the Commentaries is not calculated even for

p 1. BL Com. 475. « 1. BL Com, 108.
voi<« I. £ e^

210 , LJlCrURES ON LAW.

the meridian of Great-Britain : it is still less calculated
for that of many other governments : for, in many other
governments, the distinction is still more strongly marked
between the sovereign and legislative powers.

In the original constitution of Rome, the sovereign
power, the dominium eminens^ as it is called by the civi-
lians, always resided in the collective body of the people.
But the laws of Rome were not always made by that
collective body. To the senate was indulged a privilege
of legislation ; partial and subordinate, it is true ; but
still a privilege of legislation. An act of the senate was
»ot considered as a permanent law ; but it was allowed
to continue in force for one year ; not longer, unless it
was ratified by the people. To the plebeians, exclusive
of the senators and patricians, a privilege of legislation
was also indulged ; but their laws bound only thena^elves.'
While we are taking notice of the different bodies, that
possessed the power of legislation in Rome, it is proper
to mention one very great defect, which existed in the
constitution of that celebrated republick. A power,
inferiour to that whi^h made a law, could dispense with
it. The senate, by its own decree, could dispense with a
law, made by the whole collective body of the people.
This power, dangerous in every free government, was
often exercised, in Rome, to accomplish the most perni-
cious purposes. ^

In the United States, and in each of the common-
wealths, of which the union is composed, the legislative

' In the government of Media, an opposite extreme prcvailea.
\Vhen EH edict was once published, it was not in the power of the
legislator to alter or repeal it The same powerj'which is sufficient
to make, should be sufficient to abrogate a law. 3. Gog. Qr. Laws. 11.

LCCTUJIES ON LAW.
1'

is very different from the supreme power. Instead of
being uncontrollable, the legislative authority is placed,
as it ought to be, under just and strict control. The
cflPects of its extravagancies may be prevented, sometimes
by the executive, sometimes by the judicial authority of
the governments ; sometimes even by a private citizen,
^nd, at all times, by the superintending power of the
people at large. These different points will afterwards
receive a particular explication. At present, perhaps,
this general position may be hazarded — That whoever
would be obliged to obey a constitutional law, is justified
in refusing to obey an unconstitutional act of the legisla-
ture — and that, when a question, even of this delicate
nature, occurs, every one who is called to act, has a
right to judge : he must, it is true, abide by the conse'^
•quences of a wrong judgment.

Puffendorff, from whom the idea of a superiour, as
forming a necessary ingredient in the idea of law, seems
to have been transplanted into the Commentaries, insists
much upon what he calls a mzxiia^-^that a person cannot
eblige himself; '* and this maxim," he tells us, " is not
confined to single men, but extends to whole bodies and
societies:"' "for a person to oblige himself under the
notion of a lawgiver, or of a superiour, is an impossibi-
lity."^ Hence the inference seems to be drawn, that
*' obligations are laid on human minds by a superiour.'?
To different minds, the same things, sometimes, appear^
in a very different manner. If I was to make a maxim
upon this subject i it would be precisely the reverse of
the maxim of Baron Puffendorff. Instead of saying,
that a man cannot oblige himself; I would say, that no

» Puff.63.b.l.c. 6.S. 7.

t Id* 6S8. b. r. c 0. 8. a
LECTURES ON LAW.

Other person upon earth can oblige him, but that he C€r-»

talnly can oblige himself. Consent is. the sole principle,

on which any claim, in consequence of human authority,

can be made upon one man by another. I say, in con«

sequence of human authority ; for, in consequence of

the divine authority, numerous are the claims that we

are reciprocally entitled to make, numerous are the

duties, that we are reciprocally obliged to perform. But

none of these can enter. into the present question. We

speak of authority merely human. Exclusively of the

duties required by the law of nature, I can conceive of

no claim, that one man can make upon another, but in

consequence of his own consent. Let us, upon this occa-

Sjion, as we have done upon some otJhers, simplify the

object by a plain and distinct analysis. Let us take for

the subject of our analysis the very question we are upon

—Whether a man can be bound by any human authority,

except his own consent? Let us suppose, that one

demands obedience from me to a certain injunction,

which he calls a law, by performing some service pointed

out to me : I ask him, why am I obliged to obey it ? He

says it is just I sh6uld do it. Justice, I tell him, is a

part of the law of nature ; give me a reason drawn from

human authority. He tells me, he had promised it.

Very well, perform your promise. Suppose he rises

in his tone, and tells me, he orders it. Equal and free^

I see no reason for obeying the order of one, who Is only

equal and free. Repelled from this attack upon my

independence, he assails me on a very different quarteri

and, softening his accents, represents how generous, nay

how humane, it would be, to do as he desires. Huma^

nity. is a duty ; generosity is a virtue ; but neither is to

be referred to human authority. Let invention be put "

upon the rack, and the severest torture will not draw

LECTURES ON LAW. 31 S

from it a discovery of any external human authority, by
irhiqh I am obliged to obey the supposed law, or to per-
form the supposed service. He tells me, next, that I
promised to do it. Now, indeed, I discover a human
source of obligation. If I promised to do it, I am
bound to do it ; unless the promise is either unlawful,
or discharged ; dissolved by an equal, or prohibited by
a superiour authority. But this promise originated from
ccmsent ; for if it was the abortion of compulsion — ^the
effect sometimes of exterior and superiour human
power ^ but never of human authority — I am not bound
to consider it as my act and deed.

Let us now vary the supposition a little. Suppose
this demand to be made upon me by one, of whose supe-
riour judgment and unimpeached veracity I had the
strongest and best founded belief : suppose me at that
period of life — ^for there is such a period of life — when I
should believe implicitly whatever was taught me by one,
whom I knew I could so well trust : suppose this person,
respected for his knowledge and integrity, should tell
me, that he really thought it my duty to comply with
the demand. I think I should probably feel a sense of
obligation arise within me. But why? because this
respectable person says it ? No. But for a reason,
which may be easily mistaken for this : because I believe,
that what this respected person says must be true. Here,
indeed, is a species of external human authority, exerted
and obeyed for the wisest purposes: But this is very
different from that external human authoritv, which is
sidsigned by some as the source of obligation in human
laws. This species of authority is said to have been
carried to a very great height by Pythagorais, the cele-
brated philosopher. He delivered it as a maxim, and

214 ' LECTURES ON LAW.

it was received as such in his school, that whatever he
said must be true. Ipse dixit was an undisputed autho-
rity. But if folly and falsehood had been as inseparabljr
associated with the character of Pythagoras, as veracity
and wisdom were, in the ];^inds of his followers, I
ask — ^would his ipse dixit have been received as an undis-
puted authority? I presume not. To recur, then, to
the supposition, which I last made ; I should feel the
sense of obligation arise in me, not because I should think
it his will, that I should comply with the demand ; but
because I should believe in his opinion^ that it was my
duty to dp. so. This refers to a very diflferent source.
For let me suppose a little farther, that, after feeling
this sense of obligation arise within me, I should come
to learn, either from my own observation, or from autho-^
rity still superiour to that of the person in whom I placed
confidence, that this confidence was misplaced; that
what he told me proceeded either from mistake, or from
something worse than mistake ; his will might continue
the same, and my opinion concerning it might continue
the same, but my sense of obligation would be greatly
altered. These remarks, I hope, will be sufficient to
show, that no exterior human authority can bind a free
and independent man.

The next question is — can a man bind himself ? Baron
PuffendorfF lays it down as a maxim, that he cannot:
and on this maxim', applied to publick bodies as well as
private individuals, he builds a very interesting series of
argumentation — just, indeed, and unanswerable, if the
basis, on which it rests, be solid and sound.

We have, at last, reached the bottom of the business.
We are now come to the important question, the resolu-

^-.

/ LECTURES ON LAW. 215

tion of which m^st, in my opinion, decide the fate of all
hun^n laws. I say, iq my opinion ; for I have already
given my reasons for thinkvjg, that if a man cannot bind
himself, no human authority «>«m bind him. For one
man, equal and free, cannot be bouxid by another, who
is no more. The consequence necessarily is, that if a
man can be boimd by any human authority, it must be
by himself. A farther consequence necessarily is, that
if he cannot bind himself, there is an end of all human
authority, and of all human laws. How differently,
sometimes, things turn out, from what was expected
from them ! The idea of superiority, it was probably
thought, would strengthen the obligation of human laws.
When traced minutely and accurately, we find, that it
would destroy their very existence. If no human law
can be made without a superiour ; no human law can ever
be made.

First principles ought to be admitted with caution in-
deed. When you first read, in the Commentaries, this
principle — " a law always supposes some superiour, who.
is to make it ;" you did not suspect, I presume, that this
principle is subversive of all human laws. You now per-
ceive, that, if a man can be bound by human authority,
it must be by his own. But is he his own superiour ? The
creative imagination of a Theobald himself could not
suggest the fancy. He could only go so far as to say

^ None but himself can be \mparalleU*

%

m

Even the master of a show, who boasted, that his ele-
phant was ^^the greatest elephant in the world," thought
it necessary, for preventing mistakes, to add— except
himself.

r
I

216 LECTURES ON LAW.

But to resume seriously the iiiiports»4^ question — can
a man bind himself? Simple facts Have sometimes Ifd to
the greatest discoveries. T^He sublime theory of gravi-
tation was first 8Uggeste<2 to Newton by an apple falling
from a tree.

At the end of the second volume of the Commenta-
ries are precedents of some useful instruments, known
to the law of £ngland. Among others, there is a pre-
cedent of a common bond. In that bond, there are
these words written — / bind myself. This form of a
bond has been known and used and approved in England
from time immemorial. If a man cannot bind himself,
then all the bonds, which have been executed in Eng-
land, have been mere nullities. The substantial parts of
that bond are parts of the common law of England*
The part, which I have mentioned, is certainly a most
substantial one. All parts of the precedent are not sub-
stantial : many of them may be omitted or ahered with-
out vitiating the force of the bond. The law does not
require any particular form of words : but one thing
it strictly requires — such words as declare the intention
of the party, and denote his being bound : such words
will be sufficient : such words will be carried into effect
by the judgment of the law.

Let us examine the obligatory principle of a bond by
legal tests, by triers at the common law. Suppose one
applies to a court of justice to enforce the obligation of
a bond, and proposes it as the foundation of his demand.
In what manner is he directed by the law to express the
legal import of the instrument? He is directed to de«
dare, that, by this instrument, the party who executed

LECTXJ^ES ON LAW. 217

It, " acknowledged himself to be bound," ^ or " bound
hinwelf.'' ^ The precedents are in both forms. When
the action is properly instituted, the party, against whom
it is instituted, is next called upon, with all legal solem-
nity, to make his defence — for against no man ought a
decision to be pronounced till he has an opportunity of
being heari^. He appears : the instrument is produced.
What can he say, why a decision should not be pro-
nounced against him ? The common law furnishes him
with'forms to suit almost every case, certainly every case
that has been brought before a court of j ustice» If the case
of the present defendant is so very peculiar, that nothing
similar to it ever happened before ; the common law will
protect him in forming a defence, suited to his very pecu-
liar case. Among all the different kinds of pleas, fitted for
every ckse that has happened, for almost every case that
can happen, are there any furnished, which bear to-^
wards this principle — that the defendant could not oblige
himself? There are. But they are furnished only for
those, who, by reason of their infancy, or any other
cause; appear to wapt a common degree of understand-
ing. For without understanding it, no obligation can
be legitimately formed. There are others tod, that re-
spect another situation, which it will be proper to exam-
ine particularly ; because it is probable, that it will
throw much light upon the principle of obligation to hu-
man laws. The understanding, though necessary, is not,
of itself, sufficient to form a legitimate obligation: in a
legitimate obligation, the will must concur ; compulsion
will not be received as a substitute for consent. The
common law is a law of liberty. The defendant may
plead, that he wsts compdled to execute the instrument.

tt Boh. Ins. Leg, 102. ^ 3. Mod. Ent 178.

VOL. I. F f

318 Lj;CTUSk£S ON LAW«>
He cannot^ indeed, deny the execution of it ^ but ke
can state, in his plea^ the circumstances of compukioD
attending its execution;^ and these circumstances, if
sufficient in law, and established in fact, will procure a
decision in his favour, that, in such circunastances, he
did not bind himself. If he^never executed the instru*
ment at all ; he can state the fact ; and unless the execu^
tion of it be prored against him, ])e will, upon this plea
likewise, obtain a decision, that he did not bind himself
But if he can do none of these things — ^if he executed
the instrument ; if he executed it voluntarily ; if b^
executed it knowingly ; the law will pronounce, that
he bound himself. This has been the regular course
of the law during time immemorial-*a course, uiw
interrupted and unrepealed. In the municipal law
of England, therefore, ^he doctrine is established-^—
that a man can bind himselfr This doctrine is ee*
tablished by strict legal inference from the principles and
the practice of the common law. The consequence is^
that, on the principles of the municipal law of England, a
superioUr 19 not necessary to the existence of obligation.
A man can bind himself. But is his bond a law ? Yes^
it is a law binding upon himself. Farther it ought not to
bind. But shall a private contract be vifewcd in the ve-
nerable light of a law? Why not, if it has all its essen-
tial properties ? Suppose this contract to have been nf^ade
by millions, contracting on each side : it would have
been dignified by the name of a treaty : as such, had the
United States been the contractors on one side, it woidd
have become a law of the land : as such, it would have
become an important part of the law of nations. Is the
act of millions more binding upon those milliionB, than

^ 5. Rep. 119. '

LECTURES OH LAW* Sl#

•

die act of one is binding upon that one i Light will break
in upon us by degrees.

By the law of England, a man can bind himself. The
law of England speaks not a language contrary to that of
the law of nature. By this law also, a man can bind him-
self. *'*' If among men;" says Barbeyrac,x ^^the immediate
reason why one ought to be subject to the command of
another is ordinarily this, that he has voluntarily con-
-sented to it"-— and we have shown, that this is not only
ordinarily ^ but always the reason — " then," continues he,
^^ this consent, and all other engagements whatever are
only obligatory through that maxim of natural law, which
tells us, that every one ought to observe what he has
engaged himself to." Thii$ maxim is, indeed, a part of
the law of a superiour ; but this maxim is founded upon
the previous truth — that a man can engage himself: I
need not surely prove, that an engagement must be made
before it can be observed. " That we should. be faithful
to our engagements,*' says the very learned President
Goguet, y " is one of those maxims, which derive their
origin from those sentiments of equity and justice, which
God has engraven on the hearts of all men : they are
taught us by that internal light, which enables us to dis-
tinguish between right and wrong." The same impor-
tant lesson is delivered to nations, as well as to men. ^

We see- now, that, both by ^e law of England, and by
the superiour law of nature, men and nations can bind
themselves. Can they be bound without their consent I

> Puff. 67. n. 3. to b. 1. c. 6. s. 13. T L Gog. Or.Laws. r. 8.
» V»L Prc£ 13.

220 LECTURES OM LAW*

•

Is it necessary to dig for another foundation, on which the
obligatory force of human laws can be laid? Can anj
other solid foundation be found ?

That this foundation is sufficient to support the whole
beautiful structure of human law, will abundantly appear.

** Th6 union of families,'' says the same respectable .
author, whom I quoted just now, " could not have taken
place but by an agreement of wills. When we view
society as the eflFect of unanimous concord, it necessarily
supposes certain covenants. These covenants imply con-
ditions. These conditions are to be considered as the
first laws." * We have already seen the sentiments of
the excellent Hooker — ^that " human edicts, derived from
any other human source, than the consent of those, upon
whom they are imposed, are nothing better than mere
tyranny. Laws they are not, because they have not the
publick approbation."** " The mother of civil law," says
Grothis,*^ "is that very obligation, which arises from
consent.*' " So that the civil law," says his commenta"*
tor, Barbeyrac, ^ ** is, at the bottom, no more than a con-
sequence of that inviolable law of nature— every man is
obliged to a religious observance of his promise." " The
legislative power of a civil society," says Dr. Rutherforth,
in his Institutes of Natural Law,* " is acquired by the
immediate and direct consent of the several individuals,
who make themselves members of such society. And
the legislative body acquires it, as by the immediate
and direct consent of the collective body of the society,
so by the remote and indirect consent of the several
members."

»

» I. Gog. Or. Laws. T. »» Hooker, b. 1. s. 10. p. 19. 2a
' * Prcl 20. tt. 16. ^ Id. note to 8. 16. « Vol.2. 222.

1ECTUR£S ON LAW* 221

I

I hope I have now performed my engagement : I hope
I have evinced, froiA authority and from reason, from
precedent and from principle, that consent is the sole
' obligatory principle of human government and human
laws. To trace the varying but powerful energy of this
animating principle through the formation and adminis-
tration of every part of our beautiful system of govern-
ment and law, will be a pleasing task in the course of
the^e lectures. Can any task be more delightful than to
pursue the circulation of liberty through every limb and
member of the political body ? This kind of anatomy has
a peculiar advantage — ^it traces, w'ithout destroying, the
principle of life.

Before I conclude, it will be proper to take a concise
view of the consequences, necessarily resulting from the
doctrine, that the legislative power must be ^^ absolute,
uncontrolled, irresistible, and supreme." 1. The power,
which makes the laws, cannot be accountable for its con-
duct ; it cannot be submitted either to humai^ judgment,
or to human punishment. For both these, says Puffen-
dorfF, f suppose a superiour ; but a superiour to the
supreme, in the same order of men, and the same notion
of government, is a contradiction. 2. If to every human
law, a superiour is necessary : and if the power, which
makes a human law, must be supreme ; the consequence
unquestionably is, that that power cannot be bound by the
laws, which it makes : for where shall we find a supe-
riour to what is supreme ? " When a civil power," says
PuffendorfF,* "is constituted supreme, it must, on this
very score, be supposed exempt from human laws j or, to
speak more properly, above them. Human laws are

• ^ B. 7. G. 6. s. 2. p. 687. f K7, c; 6. s. 3. p. 688.

J22 LECTUKES OH LAW*

nothing else but the decrees of the supreme power, eoH-
cerning matters to be observed, by the subjects, for the
publick good of the state. That tio such edicts can
directly oblige the sovfreiga is manifest; because his
very name and title supppseth, that no bond or engage*
ment can be laid on hhn by any other mortal hand:
and for a person to oblige himself, tinder the notion of
a lawgiver, or of a superiour, is an impossibility." 3b
If the legislative power be absolute, uncontrolled, and
supreme ; aH opposition to its acts must be unlawful.
This, indeed, is not so much a consequence, as a part
of the doctrine. In the language of the Commenta*
ries, this power is" irresistible," »» Many recollect the nu-
merous and the extravagant inferences, which, at a former
period, were drawn from the supposed absolute, irresist-
ible, uncoAtrolled, and supreme power of the British
parliament. They will fall under our notice, when we
come to examine the principles, the rise, and the pro-
gress of the American constitutions and governments. •

I have already mentioned, that though Sir William
Blackstone was the first, he has not been the last, who
defined >municipal law, as applied to the law of England^
upon unsound and dangerous principles. This doctrine
has been adopted by his successour in the Vinerian chair,
though with some degree of apparent hesitation. " Evciy
state," says he, " must, like individuals, be subject to
certain rules." *' The necessity of rules infers the
necessity of political superiours." ^ " The giving of laws
to a people, forms the most exalted degree of human
sovereignty ; and is, perhaps, in effect, or in strict pro-
priety of speech, the only truly suprenae power of die

^ 1. Bl. Com. i9. i EL Jur. <4to) 86. 7r.

LECTURES Off LAW. 32S

.Hate."i ' The 6«Qsible and decided Mn Paley, in his
principles of moral and political philosophy, has propa-
gated the same doctrine without limitation and without
reserve* ^^ As a series of appeals" says he, ^^ must be
&iite, there necessarily exists, in every government,
a power, from which the constitution has provided no
•ppeal ', and which power, for that reason, may be termed
absolute, omnipotent, uncontrollable, arbitrary, despo**
tick; and is alike so, in all countries* The person, or
assembly, in whom this power resides, is called the
sovereign pr the supreme power of the state. Since to
the same power universally appertains the ofice of esta-
Uishing pufolick laws, it is also called the legislature
of the state." ^ It is not improbable, that the doctrine '
is disseminated wherever the Commentaries are gene*
rally received as authority.

I have already intimated, that there is a period in
our lives, when we receive iinplicidy whatever we are
taught, especially by those, in whom, we think, we can
confide. ** It is the intention of nature," says the inge-
nious Dr. Retd, ^ ^^ that we should be carried in arms
before we are able to walk upon our legs ; and it is like-^
wise the intention of nature, that our belief should be
guided by the authority and reason of others, before it
can be guided by our own reason," At this very period
of life, the Commentaries, as a book of authority, are put
into the hands of young gentlemen^ to form the basis of
their law- education. Is it surprising, that 'the retep*-
tion of its doctrines should be indiscriminate, as well as
implicit? indeed the former is the unavoidable conse*
quence of the latter. But doctrines received implicitly^

J EL Jar. (4to) 43. k 2. Palcy 185. i Inq. 433.

224 LECTURES ON LAW.

at this period of life, are not so easily* dismissed in illp
subsequent stages. " For," says the same experienced
judge of human nature, « " the novelty of an opinion, to
those who are too fond of novelties ; the gravity and
solemnity, with which it is introduced ; the opinion we
have entertained of the author ; and, above all, its being
fixed in our minds at that time of life, when we receive
implicitly what we are taught ; may cover its absurdity,
and fasdinate the understanding for a time"— -I will add—
for a long time. These observations explain, and,
while they explain, they justify my conduct in examiniog^
so fully and so minutely, the definitions of law in gene*
ral and of municipal law given in die Commentaries on
the laws of England. This full and minute examina-
tion has, at the same time, given me a fit opportunity
of discovering, of illustrating, and, I hope, of establish-
ing very different principles, as the foundation of the
flicience of law. In this, as in every other science, it
is all important, that the foundation be properly and
surely laid.
Permit me to close this subject with the sentiments,
which a very learned and ingenious judge expressed,
on an occasion somewhat similar to this, ^ and in a situa^
tion somewhat similar to mine. The principles of the
revolution in England have been dear to whigs : they^
have been opposed inveteratel/ and pertinaciously by
tories. Some passages in the law performances of the
great and good Lord Chief Justice Hale were conceived^
on both sides, and justly, to militate against the princL*
pies of that revolution. These passages were cited
with uncommon exaltation, and were, no doubt, disse*
minated by the votaries of the abdicated family with

» Reid. Ess. In. 568.

LECTURES ON JLA.W. %%S

extraordinary zeid. Seventy years after the revolution,
and sixteen years after the last rebellion, which was
raised in order to overturn its happy establishment, Mr.
Justice Foster thought it his duty to publish some obser*
vations on those passages, with a view to detect and expose
theic mistakes, which were great, and to defend the
{principles, on which the revolution and the subsequent
CBtablishment were founded* Concerning these obser-
vations, and their publication, he thus speaks, '^ The
efui^e of the Pretender seems now to be absolutely given
up. I hope in God it is so. But whether the root of
bitterness, ihe principles which gave birth, and growth,
JHid strength to it, and have been, twice within our memo-
ly, made a pretence for rebellion, at seasons n^fy critical*
whether those principles be totally eradicated, I know
not. These I encounter, by showing that certain histo-
rical facts, which the learned Judge hath appealed to in
support of them, either have no foundation in truth, or,
were they true, do mot warrant the conclusions drawn
from them.

^^ The passages I animadvert upon have been cited
with an uncommon degree of triumph by those, who, to
say no worse of them, from the dictates of a misguided
conscience, have treated the revolution and present es-
tablishment as founded in usurpation and rebellion ; and
$hey are in every student's hand. Why, therefore,
may not a good subject, be it in season or out of season,
caution the younger part of the profession against the
prejudices, which the name of Lord Chief Justice Hale,
a name ever honoured and esteemed, may otherwise
beget in them ? I, for my part, make no apology for the
freedom I have taken with the sentiments of an author

VOL. I. ^E *

23S LtCTVREi Oir LAW.

whose memory I can love and hoiUMir, without adoptfai|^
any of his mistakes on ihe subject of government.

^^It cannot be denied, and I see no reason for nudbing
a secret of it, that the learned Judge hath, in his wri*
tings, paid no regard to the principles, uppn which the
revolution and present happy establishment are founded*
The prevailing opinion of the times, in which he receir*
ed his first impressions, might mislead him. And it ia.
not to be wondered at, if the. detestable use the parlia-
mentary army made of its success i;i the civil war did
contribute to fix him in the prejudices of his early days*
For, in the competition of parties, extremes, on oac
side, alto/^ universally produce their contraries- on the
other. And even honest minds are not always secured
agsdnst the contagion of party prejudice.

^' But, it matters aiot with us, whether his opinion
was the. effect of prejudices early entertained, or the re-
sult of cool reflection; since the opinion of 410 man,,
how great or good soever, is or ought to be the sole
standard of ^uth." ^

The next great title in my course of lectures is
MAN, the subject of all, and the author, as well as the
subject of part of those kinds of law, of which I have
now given a general and summary view. Man •! shall
consider as an individual, as a member of society, as a
member of a confederation, and as a part of the great
commonwealth of nations.

On a slight glance of this subject, it may seem, per-
haps, pot to be very intimately connected with <a system

» Fost Pref. 6, r.

. . LECT0RE8 OK LAW. 237

•§( l^^are$ on law. And, indeed, it must be owned, that
as law, or what is^called law, is sometimes taught, and
sometimes practised, there is but a slender and ver^
remote alliance between law and man. But, in the real
nataretpf things, the case is very different.

You have not, I am sure, forgotten, that, in an early
address, which I made to you, I recommended, most
cfamestly, to the utmost degree of your attention, an
outline of study, supported with all the countenance and
autfhority of three distinguished and experienced cha«
racters-^-Bacon, Bolingbroke^ Kaims: it will not, I am
sure, be forgotten, that metaphysical knowledge, or the
philosophy of the human mind, formed a very conspi-
cuous part of that outline ; one of those ^^ vantage
grounds," which every one must climb, who aims to be
really a master in the science of law.

**Natura juris a natura hominis repetenda est," is
the judgment of Cicero. It i^ a judgment, not more
respectable on accotint of the high authority, which prp-
nounces it, than on account of its intrinsick solidity and
importance.

You have heard me (nention, that a proper system of
evidence is the greatest desideratum in the law. From
a distinct and accurate knowledge of the human mind,
and of its powers and operations, the principles and ma-
terials of such a system must be drawn and collected.

Whatever produces belief may be comprehended un-
der the name of evidence. Belief is a simple and unde-
finable operation of the mind; but, by the constitution
of our iiature, it is intiniately and inseparably associated

228 LECTURES ON LAW.

with many other powers and operations. This asoocia^
tion should be minutely traced : all its properties a&d
consequences should be distinctly marked. Belief aW
tends on the perceptions of our external senses, on the
operations of our internal consciousness, on those of
memory, on those of intuition, on those of reason : it
is attendant, likewise, qn the veracity, the fidelity, and
the judgment of others. Hence the evidence of sense,
the evidence of recollection, the evidence of conscious-
ness, the evidence of intuition, the evidence of demon-
stration, probatsle evidence, the evidence of testimony,
the evidence bf engagements, the evidence of opinion,
and many other kinds of evidence ; for this is, by no
means, a complete enumeration of them.

It is difficult, perhaps it is impossible, to discover
any common principle, to which all these different kinds
of evidence can be educed. They seem to agree only
in this, that, by the constitution of our nature, they are
fitted to produce belief.

It is superfluous to add, that the social operations of
the mind should be well known and studied by him, who
wishes to reach the genuine principles of legal know-
ledge. _ . ^

CHAPTER VI.

^

OF MAN, AS AN INDIVIDUAL,

J^NOW thou thyself," is an inscription peculiarly
proper for the porch of the temple of science. The
knowledge of human nature is of all human knowledge
.the most curious and the most important. To it all the
other sciences have a relation ; and though from it they
may seem to diverge and ramify very widely, yet by one
passage ot another they still return.

In every art and in every disquisition, the powers of
the mind are the instruiAcnts, which we employ; the
more fully we understand their nature and their use, the
more skilfully and the more successfully we shall apply
them. In the sublimest arts, the mind is not only the
instrument, but the subject also of our operations and
inquiries. The poet, the orator, the philosopher work
upon man in different ways ^and for different purposes^
The statesman and the judge, in pursuit of the noblest .
ends, have the same dignified object before them. An
accurate and distinct knowledge of his nature and powers,
will undoubtedly diffuse much light and splendour over

230 ^ LZCTXnCtB on LAW. *

the science of law. In truth, law cati never attain either
the extent or the elevation of science, unless it be raised
upon the science of man.

The knowledge of human nature is not more distin-
guished by its importance, than it is by its difficulty.
Thoug;h the mind— the noblest work of God, which
reason discovers — is of all objects the nearest to us, and
seems the most within our view ; yet it is no easy mat*
ter to attend to its operations and faculties, in such a
manner as to obtain clear, full, and distinct conceptions
concerning them. The consequence has been, that in
no brancrof knowledge have greater errours, and even
absurdities, insinuated themselves, than in the philoso^
phy of the human mind. Instead of proceeding slowly
and cautiously by observation and experience, those who
have written on this subject have adopted the Ihore
e^sy, but the less certain mode of process by hj^thesis
and analogy. The event has been such as might have .
been expected : those who have cultivated other sciences,
have made progress, because they have set out in the
right road, and have consulted the proper guides: those
who have speculated on human nature have, too many
of them, been involved in a dark and inextricable la-
byrinth, because they commenced their journey in an
improper direction, and have listened to the information
of those,* whose information was the result of conjecture
and not of experience. But this darkness will not last
for ever. Some future sun of science will arise, and illn-
minate this benighted part of the intellectual globe.
When the powers of the human mind shall be delineated .
truly and according to nature, those, whose vision is
not distorted by prejudice, will recognise their own fea-
tures in the picture. ^ They will be surprised that things.

L£CTtrRES ON LAW. . 231

^ m /themselves so clear, could be so long involved in
absurdity ; and, when the truth is to be found in their
own breasts, that they have been led so far from it by
false systems and theories.

The only instrument, by which we can have any dis-
tilict notion of the faculties of our own and of others
minds, is reflection. By this power, the mind makes its
own operations the object of its attention, and views and
examines them on every side. This power of reflection
or self«examination, so absolutely indispensable in 'the
investigation of what is so near and so important to us,
is neither soon nor easily acquired or exerted. The
' xnind, like the eye, contemplates, with facility, every
object around it; but is with difiiculty turned inward
upon its own operations. Whoever has attempted to
experiment on the philosophy of the mind — ^the only
legitimate way in which a kiiowledge of it can be ac-
quired — ^must Have found how "utrerly' impossible it is to
make any clear and distinct observations on our faculties
of thought, unless the passions, as well as the imagint^
tion, be silent and still. The materials on which we
reflect are so minute, so mixed, and so volatile, that the
$trongest miiids alone can, in any degree, arrange them,
even in their quietest state. The least breath of passion
• moves and agitates them, so as to render every thing
distorted and deformed.

Reflection, like ail our othei* powers, is greatly im-
proved by exercise : it thus becomes habitual ; the difii-
culty attending it daily diminishes ; and the advantages
resulting from it are many and great. One who is
accustomed habitually to reflection, can think and speak
with accuracy on every subject; and can judge and

%S2 LXCT0RE8 ON LAW.

discriminate for himself in many cases, in which cythers
must trust to notidns borrowed, confused, and indistinct..

Assisting and subservient to accurate reflection, is the
structure of language, which is of much use in developing
the operations of the mind* The language of mankind
is expressive of their thoughts. The various <^erali<ma
of the understanding, will, and passions have various
forms of speech corresponding to them, in all languages ;
a due attention to the signs, throws light on the things
signified by them. There are, in all languages, modes
of speech, by which men signify their judgmeoEt, or give
th^r testimony, or accept, or refuse, or command, or
threaten, or supplicate, or ask information or advice^ or
plight their faith in promises or contracts. If such
operation^ were not common to mankind, we sbcmld not
find, in all languages, forms of speech by which they are
expressed*
/

A system of human nature is not ei^ected from diis
chair. The undertaking, indeed, is too vast for me ; it b
too vast for any one man, however great his genius or
abilities may be. But it comes directly within oar plan,
to consider it so far as to have just conceptions of man m
two -most important characters, as an audior, and as a
subject of law ; as accountable for his own conduct, as
capable of directing the conduct both of himself and of
others. The laws, which God has given to us, are strictly
agreeable to our nature ; they are adjusted with infallible
correctness to our perfection and happiness. On those,
which we make for ourselves, the same charactem, as
deeply and as permanently as possible, ought to be im-
pressed. But how, unless we study a&d know oair

\

\

I

fixture, fthdl we nda^e lawi^ fit for it, aifd c(Ucttli|t6d tH
hkiprove it ?

I meafi tidt— *for it would be iminstfuctivc— td give you
an account of the divisions alid subdivisionsi intd nfhich
xnetapfa^sicians have attetfnpt^d to cls^s and ari^ange cnxt
mental powers cmd principles. No dhrisioh has been
more common, and, perhaps, lete Exceptionable, thai^
that of the powers of the mind into those of the under«
standing and those of the will. And yet even this divi«
ftion, I am afraid, has led into a mistake^ The n^istake
I believe to be this ; it has been supposed, that in thd
Gyrations ascribed to the wiH, there was no employment
bf the understanding ; and that in 'thoto ascribed to the
understanding, there was no exertion of the will. Bat
this is not the case. It is probable, that tfiere h no opera^^
tio«[ of the mbderstimding, in which the mind is not in
ftotne degree active ; in other words, in which the will
has not some share. On the other hand, there can be no
Energy of the will^ which is not accompanied with some
act of the understanding. In the operations of the nnthd^
both faculties generally, if not sdways, concur ; and tli^e
distinction between them can be of no farther use, than
to arrange each operation under that faculty, which has
the largest share in it. Thus by the perceptive powers,
we are supposed to acquire knowledge, and by the power*
of volition, we are said to exert ourselves in action*

If even this division, long and generally received a^
it has been, has given occasion to a mistake ; we have no
Jfreat reason to indulge a partiality for others. The
ttruth is, that they have been generally superficial and
ifeUieciirsfite ; they have depended more on fancy than on
ttttlufe ; oxkA httve proceeded icore from presumptuovU

vol. I. H'h

99^ jUBCTumEs Qir hAnr.

attempts to ltcco9imoda|e the mmd to a system, thait
from respectful endeavours to accommodate a system to
, the mind. Abhorrent from the first, restrained by pro-
priety from aiming at the second ; let my humble task
be to select and make such observations concerning our
powers, our dispositions, our principles, and our habits^
as will illustrate the intimate connexion and reciprocal
influence of religion, morality, and law*

Simplicity is the favourite object of system. In the
material world, attachment to this simplicity misled the
penetrating Des Cartes. £ven the g^eat Newton, patient,
faithful, and attentive as he was in tracing Nature's foot*
steps, was, on one occasion, almost seduced, by the same
attachment, to follow hypothesis, the ape of Nature. A
)>ody of morality, pretending to be complete, has som^e-
times been built on a single pillar of the inward frame:
the> entire conduct of life has been accounted for, at least
the attempt has been made to account. for it, from a single
quality or power. Mtoy systems of this kind have'
appeared, calculated merely to flatter the mind. Accord-
ing to some writers, man is entirely selfish ; according
to others, universal benevolence is the highest aim of his
nature. One founds morality upon sympathy solely :
another exclusively upon utility.. But the variety of
human nature is not so easily comprehended or reached.
It is a complicated machine; and is unavoidably. so, in
order co answer the various and important purposes, for
which it is formed and designed.

■

How wretched are oftentimes the representations and
the imitations of Nature's works ! A puppet-may make a
ftw motions and gesticulations ; but how unlike it is to
that, which it represents! How contemptible, when

• LECTURES ON LAV, S2J|

compared to the body 6f a man, wlioiie stmcturc the
more we know, the morfc we discoveriti wonders, and the
more sensible we are of onr ignorance ! Is the mechanism
of the mind so easily comprehended, when that of the
t)ody is so difficult ? Yet, by some Systems; which are
offered to us, with pretensions the mOst lofty and mag-
nificent, a few laws of association, joined to a few origi-
nal feelings, explain the whole mechanisfn'of sense, ima-
gination, mcmorj'', belief, and of all the actions and
passions of the mind. Is this the main that Nature made ?
'"'It is a puppet surely, contrived to^ miniick her work.
The more we know of other parts of nature; the more
^€ approve and admire them.. But wheti we look with»
in, ani consider the mind itself, which*makes us capable
of all our prospects and enjoyments ; if it is indeed what
ftome late systems of high preteiisions make it, we find
we have only been in an enchanted castle, imposed upon
by spectres and apparitions. We blush to think how wc
have been deluded ; we are ashamed of our frame ; and
can hardly forbear expostulating ' with our destiny. It
this thy pastime, O Nature, to put such tricks upon ^
silly creature, and then take off the mask, and show him
how he has been befooled ? If this is the philosophy of ,
human nature ; my souH enter thou not into her secrets. '
It is surely the forbidden tree of knowledge : I no soon*
er taste of it, than I perceive myself naked.— Such, in
substance, has been the well founded expostulation* a-
gainst some of tlie late and filmed theoi;ies concerning
the human mind. The theory, which we adopt, becaust
we think it grounded in truth and reality, will open very
Afferent — the most enrapturing ^rospec^s.-

»' Rdd's Inq. 36, 22.

^96 i^cTURBs oir I.4W. ^

V

The miad itself, indeed, is ^ne intenie) prinpple 2 Wt
its operatioBs many, various, connected, .and con|li^
cated : its perceptions are. mixed, compounded, and de-
compounded, by habits, associations, and abstractiona :
its powers both of action and perception, on accou^
either of adivefsi^ in their objects, or in their manner
'of operating, sore considered as separate and distinct fa-
culties. This I take to be a just state of things with
regard to the mind, and its perceptions, operations, and
powers. But I think it is highly probable, that, in opK
position to this account, the mind has been too often coi|-
eidered as distributed into different divisions and de^
.partments : and that the operations, in each department,
have been considered as simple and unmixed* Each one
of you, by recalling to remembrance your maimer otf
thinking upon these subjects, will be able to say whether
this has not been the case*

Again ^ the mind ia ^ <ictive principle* It has been
the opinion of some modem philosophers, that, in think*
^ng and sensation, the mind is merely passive. In aU
s^es, and in all languages, the various modes of think-
ing have been expressed by words of active signifioi^
tion^ such as seeing, hearing, reasoning, willing. It
seems, therefore, to be the natural judgiQent of man-
k;ind, that the mind is active in its various w^ys of thinkp
ing 'r and for this reason, they are called its operations,
and are expressed by active verbs. Sensation, imag^a- •
tion, memory, and judgment have, in all ages, been
^psidered, by the vulg^^ ?s €teU of the mind. This ia
shown by the manner, in which they are expressed in siD
languages* When the mind is much employed in them*
we say it is very active ; whereas, if they were impres-
sions only, as the iihql philosophy would lead us to cim*

peive, we ought, 19 such a case, F^kther to say, that thf
iftiad is very p^s^ive. The paper which I hold in I117
hwd W^ Bpt ^ctiye, wheq it r^c^ived the characters
written on it*

Man is compoaed of a body and a so^l intimately
connected; but at what time aind in what manner conr
nected, we do not know. In consequence of this con-
nexion, the body lives and performs the functions ne-
cessary to life for a certain time ; increases for a certain
time in stature and in strength ; is nourished with food,
^nd is refreshed by sleep. In consequence of the same
connexion, the body moves ; the hands fulfil their va-
rious and active offices ; the tongue expressive speaks ;
and the eyes sometimes still more expressive look. The
body, and the things of the body, are far from being be-
neath our-regard. In its present state, it is a mansion
well fitted for the temporary residence of its noble in-
li^itant: in its renewed state, it will be endowed with
the power of retaining that fitness for even

The fabrick of the human mind, however, is more
astonishing still* The faculties of this are, w4th no less
wisdom, adapted to their several ends, than the organs
af the other. Nay, as the mind is of an order higher
than that of the body, even more of the wisdom and.
sklH of the divine Architect is displayed in its structure^
In aU respects, fearfully and. wonderfully are we made.

From experienpf we find, (that when external things
gre within the sphere of our perceptive powers, they af*
feet our organs of sensation, and are perceived by the
vibd* That they are perceived we are conscious ; but
the miannef tjk wluch they are perceived, we cannot es^

9S8 LECTURES ON LAW.

plain ; for we ciannot trace the connexion between our
minds and the itnpressiotis made on our organs of sense i
because we cannot trace the connexion which subsists
between the soul and the bodyl Frequent and laborious
have been the attempts of philosophers to investigate the
manner, in which things external are perceived by the
tnind. Let us iniitatc them, neither in their fruitless
searches to discover what cannot be * known ; nor in
framing hypotheses which will not bear the test of resl-
son, or of intuition ; nor in rejecting self evident truths,
which, though they cannot be proved by reasoning, are
known by a species of evidence superiour to any that
reasoning can produce.

Many philosophers allege thai our mind does not
perceive external objects themselves*; that it perceives
only ideas of them ; and that those ideas are actually in
the mind. When it has been intimated to them, that, if
this be the case ; if we perceive not external objects
themselves, but only ideas ; the necessary consequence
must be, that we cannot be certain that any thing, except
those ideas, exists ; the consequence has been admitted
in its fullest force. Nav, it has been made the founda-
tion of another theory, in which it has been asserted,
that men and other animals, the sun, moon, and stars,
every thing which we think we see, and hear, and feel
around us, have no real existence ; that what we dignify
with such appellations, and what we suppose to be so
permanent and substantial, are nothing more than " the
baseless fabrick of a vision"— are not|iing more than ideas
perceived in thfc mind. The theory has been carried to
a degree still more extravagant than this ; and the exist-
ence of mind has been denied, as well as the existence
of body. We shall have occasion to examine these cas*

LECTURES ON LAW« 2^9

ties, which have not even air to support them. Suffice
it, at present, to observe, that the existence of the objects
of our external senses, in the way and manner in which
"we perceive that existence, is a branch of intuitive
knowledge, and a matter of absolute certainty ; that the
constitution of our nature determines us^to believe in
our senses; and that a contrary determination would
finally lead to the total subversion of all human knowledge.
For this belief we cannot, we pretend not to assign an
aifgument ; it is a simple and original, and therefore an
inexplicable act of the mind. li can neither be described
nor defined. But one thing we shall engage to do, though,
at present, we are not prepared for it. When those phi-
losophers prove by argument, that we ought to receive
the testimony of reason; we then will prove, byargu*
ment, that we ought to receive the testimony of sense.
Till that time, let us receive th^ testimony of both, as
of faculties, with which we have been endowed, for wise
and benevolent purposes, by him who is all-true. The
senses were intended by him to give us all that informal
tion of external objects, which he saw to be proper for
us in our present state. This information they convey
without reasoning, without art, without investigation on
our part. They are five in number. Tastes are refer-
red to the sense of tasting : odours, to that of smelling :
sounds, to that of hearing : light and colours, to that
€>f peeing : all other bodily sensations, to that of touch.

Our external senses are not indeed the most exalted
of our powers ; but they are powers of real use and
Importance ; and, to powers of a more dignified nature,
they are most serviceable and necessary instruments.
It has been the endeavour of some philosophers to de-
grade them below that rank, in which they ought to be

140 htctvkku oif LAW.

placed. They have been tepredented at power*, by
which we receive sensatiotis only of external objects*
Even this part of their service is far from being unim-
portant. The perception of external objects is a principal
link of that mysterious chain, which connects the mate^
rial with the intellectual world. Bat this, as I before
tnentioned,^ is not the whole of the functions discharged
by the senses : they judge, as well as inform : they are
sot confined to the task of conveying impressions ; they
are exalted to the office of deciding concerning the na«
ture and the evidence of the impressions^ which they
convey.

The senses are the vehicles of pleasures, less elevated
indeed than those which are intellectual, still less eleva-
ted than those which are moral, but pleasures not beneatii
the regard of a rational and a moral mind. The plea-
sures of sense, it is true, ought, like every diii>g else
that is subordinate, to be prevented from trdusgressill^
their natural and proper bounds : but that is no reasoil
why they should be either neglected or despised. To ht
without the senses even of tasting luid smeffing, woidd
be a real misfortune, because it would be a real incoa-t
venience, and would be attended with tlie loss of sensa*
tiohs innocent and agreeable. The organ of smelling id
often the speediest and the surest instrument to prevent
or to recover a person froni a fainting fit. The sensed
are susceptible of improvement ; and they ought to be
improved; for they are the sources both of pleasures
and of advantage^ Some of the senses ai^ the sources
of pleasures of a very elegant kind. The ear is die
welcome messenger of melody and harmony, as weO as

^ Ante. p. 136.

LECTURES ON LAW, . 241

of sound: the eye, of beauty, as well as of light and
colours : and the rtian who feels not agreeable emotions
from the dbntemplation of beauty, and is not moved
irith concord of sweet sounds — I will not Rnish the fine
poictical description — I will only say, that he has no
reason to exult in the absence of those enjoyments. Both
the eye ahd the ear are capable of being refined to a very
gresLt height. For this I need only appeal to judges of
musick, of painting, of statuary, of architecture. In many
mechanick arts, a good eye, as it is called, is of excellent
service. Gentlemen of the military profession — a pro-
fession which has something singular in it ; a profession
which should be learned, that it may never be used —
know the importance of a military eye.

It is not without design that I have said thus much*
concerning the utility and importance of our senses. It
has been the custom of certain philosophers, and, I must
' here add, of certain divines, to represent human nature
as in a state of hostility etidless and uninterrupted*, inter-
nal as well as external. According to these philosophers,
and according to these divines, he is at war with all the
world, as well as with himself. The senses have been
considered as incorrigible rebels, who aspired to be
tyrants : the inference has been, that they ought to be
treated as the vilest slaves. The monk, who built a dead
wall before his window, that he might not be seduced by
the beauties of creation, introduced no new doctrine ;
he only carried to an unusual height a doctrine already
received. This doctrine embraces the two vicious ex-
tretnes, and excludes the golden mean. Whence this
sombre system derives its origin, I care and inquire not.
Of one thing I am certain ; it is. not that wisdom which
cometh from above : for the ways of that wisdom are the

VOL. I. I i

242 LECTURES ON LAW^

ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. Onr
senses ought to be deemed, as they really are, and as
they are intended to be, the ustful and pleasipg ministers
of our higher powers. Let it be remembered, howeTer,
that, of the pleasures of sense, temperance and prudence
are the necessary and inseparable guides and guardians ;
detached from whom, those pleasures lose themselves
in another nature and in other names : they become vicef
and pains.

«
As the external senses convey to us information of what

passes with )ut us ; we have an internal sense, which givea

us information of what passes within us. To this we

appropriate the name of consciousness* It is an imme^

diate conception of the operations of our own minds,

Joined with the belief of the existence of those operations.

In texerting consciousness, the mind, so far as we know^

makes no use of any bodily organ. This operation seema

to be purely intellectual. Consciousness takes knowledge

of every thing that passes within the tnind. What we

perceive, what we remember, what we imagine, what we

reason, what we judge, what we believe, what we approve,

what we hope, all our other operations, while they arc

present, are objects of this.

■

This, like many other operations of the mind, U
simple, peculiar, inaccessible equally to definition and
analysis. For its existence every one must make hi^
appeal to himself. Are you conscious that you remem-'
ber, or that you think ? We have already seen, that the
existence of the objects of sense is one great branch. of
intuitive knowledge : of the same kind of knowledge, th^
existence of the objects cf consciousness is another
branch, more extensive and important still. Wheuama^

htCrVUZS ON LAW. 243

#eeh pain, be is certain of the existence of pain ; when
he is- conscious that he thinks, he is certain of the exist*
-ence of thought. If I am asked to prove that constious-
ness is a faithful and not a fallacious sense ; all the
answer which I can give is — I feel, but 1 cannot prove ;
I can find no previous truth more certain or more lumi-
nous, from which this can derive either evidence or
illustration. But some such antecedent truth is necessa*
rily the first link in a chain of proof. For pro<jf is
nothitig else than the deduction of truths less knowh or
lesa believed, from others that are more known or better
believed. " What oan we reason, but from what we
know ?" « The immediate and irresistible conviction,
which I have of the real existence of those things, of
whose existence I am conscious, is a conviction produced
by intuition, not by reason. He who doubted, or pre-
tended to doubt, concerning every other information,
deemed himself justified in taking for granted the veracity
of that information, which was given to him by his don-
scioujoiess. He Was conscious that he thought; and
therefore he was satisfied that he really thought.--* .
**Coguto" was a first principle, Which he who pronounced
it dangerous and unphilosophical to assume any thing
else, judged it safe and wise to assume. And when he
had once assumed that he thought, he gravely set to
work to prove, that because he thought he existed. His
existence was true, but he could not prove it ; and all his
attempts to prove it have been shown, by a succeeding
philosopher, to be inconsistent with the rules of sound
and accurate logick. But even this succeeding philoso-
pher, who showed that Des Cartes had not proved his
existence, and who, from the principles of his own phi*

<^ Pope's Ess. on Man. Ep< 1« v. I&
LECTURES ON LAW*

losophy could not assume this existence without proof-^
even this philosopher, has assumed the truth of the infor**
mati<|Q given by consciousness. *•*" Mr. Hume, after anni-
hilating body and mind, time and space, action and
causation, and even his own mind, acknowledges the
neality of the thoughts, sensations, and passions, of. which
he is conscious."^ He has left them — ^how philosophi-
cally I will not pretend to say^ — to ^^ ^tand upon their
own bottom, stript of a subject, rather than call in question
the reality of their existence.*'* Let us felicitate our-
selves, that there is, at least, oife principle of common
sense, which has never been called in question. It is a
first principle, which we are required and determined,
by the very constitution of our nature and faculties, to
believe. Perhaps we. shall find other first principles,
which, by the same constitution of our nature and facul-
ties, we are equally required and determined to believe.
Such principles are parts of our constitution, no less than
the power of thinking: reason can neither make nor
destroy them : like a telescope, it may assist, it may ex-
tend, but it cannot supply natural vision*

«

•

Possessed of the senses and of consciousness; and
believing, as we must believe, the truth of the informa-
tion, which they give, we cannot complain that our know-
ledge is a baseless fabrick ; but if we were possessed only
of those powers, we might well complain, that our know-
ledge was a feting fabrick. . The moment that an
external object is removed from the operation of our
senses, that moment our perception of it is lost: the
moment our attention is withdrawn from the considera-
tion of any of the powers of the mind, that moment our '

^ Reid's Ess. Int 579. e Rdd's bq. 39. 139.

' LECTURES ON LAW,
immediate conception of it is gone. The external object
may, indeed, return ; but it will return as a stranger:
the ii^ternal power may become again the object of our
consciousness ; but it will appear as an object hitherto
unknown. As to the purpose of accumulating knowledge,
every succeeding moment would be as the first moment
of our existence. We should perceive what is present;
but we should have no power of connecting what is pre-
sent, with what is past. Without this connecting power,
we should have no means of forming any conjecture
concerning what is to come. But the divine hand that
made us, leaves not its workmanship unfinished. We
are endo^^d with a power, by which we have an imme-
diate knowledge of things past. We are provided with
a storehouse, fitted to preserve things ^ new and old.
And of this storehouse it is the extraordinary property,
that the more it is filled with treasure, the more capa-
cious and retentive it becomes. You know I speak of
the memory. Much might be usefully said concerning
this necessary and important power ; but my plan, which
comprehends such a variety of parts, forbids me to en-
large upon each of' them.

- Of Ae imme4iate cause of remembrance we know
nothing: and all attempts to trace and discover that
cause have, to say the least of them, proved vain and
illusory : it is one of those things, of which we must be
contented to remain ignorant. But while of some things
we ought to acquiesce in our ignorance ; of others, we
* should be satisfied with our knowledge : ' though we
cannot assign a cause why we remember, we know the
fact that we do remember ; and we know likewise ano-
ther fact, that our remembrance is true. What we dis-
tinctly remember, we believe as strongly as what we

S45 i^iCTimss aif i.aw«

distinctly perceive. To give a reason why wc
the information of our perceptions^ I have abeady decla-
red ihyselfv incapable : the same declaration I now make,
concerning the information <rf our memor}% By the
constitution of our mature, it is always atcomjMHued
with belief.

I had occasion to reseue the senses from the unjust
disparagement, which they have sometimes suffered :
let me now perform the same just office to the memory.
You know it to be the fashion of some to exclaim,' with
a degree of affectation, how wretched their memories
are. The design is not declared ; but it is obvious. At
the expense of their memory, they insinuate a compli*
ment to their judgment: for it has somehow been rfeceivc#
as an opinidn, that a strong memory and a strong judg^
ment have seldom been united in the same mind. Per-
haps the beautiful lines of Mr. Pope may have contributed
to give a currency to this sentiment : but the sentiment
is ill founded. I will, indeed, admit, on one hand^ that
a great memory is often found without a great genius :
but I will not admit, on the other, that a great genius is
often found without a great memory. The contrary I
believe to be generally, I will not say always, the case.
Men of the most extensive abilities have been men" also
of the most extensive memories : witness Themistocles,-
Cicero, Caesar, B<Jingbroke. If these remarks be true,
the compliment to judgment at the. cost of memory is
but a left-handed one. Instead of being rivals, judg-
ment and memory are mutual assistants. Memory
furnishes the materials which judgment selects, adjusts,
and arrangejs. Those materials selected, adjusted, and
Arranged are more at the call of memorj^ than before :
for it is a well known fact, that those things, which are

I^BCTUR£8 ON LAW, Wi

disposed most methodically and coonectea most ^atu-
rally, are the most distinct, as well as the most lasting
objects of remembrance : hence, in discourse, the utility
as well as beauty of order. Strength, as weU as clear-
ness in our perceptions greatly aids the memory : hence,
in discourse, the utility as well as beauty of vivacity.
Agreeable emotions, attending our perceptions^ contri-
bi^te to render them both clear and s^trong ; hence, in
discourse, the utility as well as beauty of every chaste
and elegant omanient. That whkli is conveyed through
the channel of two aienses makes a stronger and more •
lasting impression, than that which is conveyed through
the channel of one: hence, in discourse, the utility as
well as beauty of just and expressive action. To asso«
ciate the pleasing with th^ use^l,^ is Nature's e3samp]e as
well as precept,

I have akeady intimated thai; memoiy is greatly sufir
ceptible of improvement : it is so to a surprising degree*
This improvenient is acquired by vigorous but prudent,
exercise ; and by habitual but lively auention. I iassign
limitations both to exercise and attention, because both '
are liable to run ntio excess. A memory overloaded
will make but little uaefu). progress either in literature or
business. An attention overstrsuned is- apt to degenerate
into what is, with singular propriety, termed absence of
thought. To counterfeit this absent kind of thoughtful*
ness, has been the affectation of those, who wish to be
d^enied deep thinkers, without the trouble of thinkings
To feel it is frequently the lot of those^ wbo think too
much. But it is a failing, not an excellence : it is to be
avoided, not to be courted. When it begins to steal upon
a studious perfl^m, h^; should relkre lus auentioa by
^ilgingil

248 LECTURES OK LAW*

In all the ways, ha which the objects of our thoughts
have' hitherto presented themselves to us, they have been
necessarily attended with the act or operation of belief.
But they may be presented to us in another way, unac-
companied with that act or operation. Let' me exempli-
fy this by a set of very familiar instances : for things
may be exemplified, that cannot be defined. You see
this handkerchief You are necessarily determined to
believe that you see it. You remember that, but a nio*
ment ago, I showed you a handkerchief. You are now
necessarily determined to believe that you saw it. In
fhe first instance, the handkerchief was seen : that was
'necessarily accompanied with the belief of its then pre-
sent existence. In the second- instance, the handker-
chief was remembered : that was necessarily accompa-
nied with the belief of its past existence. You may
hereafter think of a handkerchief, certainly without see--
ing, probably without recollecting, the handkerchief,
which I just now showed* you. In the first instance, the
perception was accompanied with tl^e belief of present
existence : in the second instanceyChe remembrance was'
accompanied with the belief of ^past existence : in the
third and last instance, the conception is not accompa-
nied with any belief at all. Conception is an operation
of the mind, by which we apprehend a thing, without
. any belief or judgment concerning it , witliout referririg
it to present or past existence. Every one' is conscious
that he can conceive a thousand things, of whose present^
or past existence he has not the least belief. You have'
seen a mountain : you have seen gold : you can conceive
a golden mountain : but can you believe its existence I

Conception enters into every operation of the mind.
Our senses and our consciousness cannot ctmv^y td u^

r
I

UCTU&ES ON LAW* d40

informatioti concerning any object, without, at the same
time, giving some conception of that object. If we re*
member any thing, we must have sc^me conception of
that, which we remember. In conception there is nei*'
ther truth nor falsehood ; for conception neither affirms
nov denies. But though all the other operations of the
mind include conception ; conception itself may exisC^
detached from all the others, excepting consciousness*.
By logicians, conception is frequently called eimple ap^
prehension*

The powers' of sensation, of consciousness, and of
memory are exerted upon objects which exist, or have
existed. Conception is often exerted upon objects,
which have neither past, nor present, nor even future
existence. The creative powers of conception and de«
seription possessed by Shakespeare were, by no means,
confined to actual existence, past, present, or to come<

Judgment is an important operation of the mind^ and
!• employed upon the materials of perception and know.*
ledge* It is generally described to be, that act of the
mind, by which one thing is affirmed or denied of ano-^
ther. But this description is, in one respect, too limit-
ed ; in another, it is too extensive. It is too limited in
this respect, that though our judgments, when express^
ed, are indeed expressed by affirmation or denial, yet
it is not necessary to a judgment that it be expressed at
all. Men may judge without affirming or denying any
thing J nay, they may judge contraiy to what they af«
firm or deny. The description is too extensive in this
respect, that it includes testimony as well as judgment.
When a judge pronounces his decree, he delivers it in
the affirmative or negative : when a witness delivers his
VOL. I. K k

.(

# »

95Q i l«£CTURfi8 ON JLAW«

testimony, he uses the affirmative or negative likewise.
Judgment apd testimony are, however, operations very
different from one another : wrong judgment is only an
errour : false testimony is something more*.

I

In persons arrived at the years of discr^ion, tl^ir
perceptions, their consciousness, ^heir memory are ob-
jects of their judgment. Evidence is the ground erf
judgment ; and where evidence is, it is impossible not
to jud^e.

To every determination of the mind concerning what
is true or what is false, the name of judgment may be
assigned. Some consider knowledige ^ as a separate £ap
culty, conversant about truth and falsehood : perhaps it
is more accurate to consider it as a species of judgment;
for without judgment, how can there be anj^ knowledge^
Judgments are intuitive, as w:eU as discursive, founded
on truths that are selfevident, as well as on those that
are deduced from demonstration, or from reasoning of a
less certain kind. The former, or intuitive judgments,
may, in the strictest sense, be called the judgments of
nature.

Sense and judgment are sometimes used, especially
by some modem philosophers, in contradistinction taeadi
other — very improperly. In common language, and in
the writings of the best Authors, sense always implies
judgment : a man of sense is a man of judgment : com-
mon sense is that degree of judgment, which is to.be
expected in men of common education and. common un-
derstanding*

f Locke on Hum» Und. b. 4. c 14.

XECTURES ON LAW. 2^

With the power of judging, the pow^r of reasoning
is very nearly connected. Both powers are frequently
included under the general appellation of reason. But
reasoning is strictly the process, by which we pasir from
•one judgment to another, which is the consequence of
it. In all reasoning, there must be one proposition,
iKrhich is inferred, and another, at least, from which the
inference is made.

* '

Reason^as well as judgment, has truth and falsehood
for Its <^jects : both proceed from evidence ; both are
accompanied with belief. v

The power of reasoning is frequently selected as the
characteristick <|Ltality, which distinguishes the humasil
race from the inferiour part of the creation. From na^
ture the capacity of reaisbning is unquestionably derived i
but it may be wonderfully strettgthcMed, improved, and
extended by art. Imitation and exercise are the t^'o
^reat instruments of improvement*

In a chain of reasoning, the evidence must proceed
regularly and without interruption from link to link : the
evidence of the last cbnclusion can be i¥o ' g)*eater than
that of ;die weakest link in the chain ; because if even
the weakest link £Etils, the whole diain is broken.

» * V

In reasoning, the most useful and the mo«t splendid'
talent is the invention of intefrmediate prdofs. In all:
productions of the understanding, ipvehtioin is entitled
to the highest praise« It implies a luminous view of the
object proposed, and sagacity and quickness in discertf- '
ing, selecting, and employing, to the utmost advantage,
the means that are best fitted for accomplishing l^at

%S2 LKCTURES ON LAW.

obgect. In. the. asseinblage of those qualities comists
that superiority of understanding, which is denominated
geniu3*

Re^onitig is distinguished into two kinds ; that,
which is demonstrative $ and that, which is only probable.
In den^o^strative reasoning there are no degrees; jhe
inference, in every step of the series^ is nctcessary ; and
it is impossible but that, from the premises, the coi^clu-
sion must flow. Hence demonstrative reasoaing can be
applied only to svich truths as are necessary ; nojb to such
as are contingent.

.With regard to reasonings which, is (mly pjrobable^ the
poimexion beitM^een the premises and the conalusion ia not
a p$ce$8jiry.'.€dnn£^ioK, Probability is susceptible of
numerous and widely. differing degrees of strength and
W^ei^kness. The degrees of evidence ar^e measured by
their effect up^i a ckar, a sound) and ^unprejudiced
under3tanding. Every dregiwe of xiVidenc^ produces a
proportioned degree of knowledge and belief.

Probable, ^vid^nce imy be. diiatribuUd iijtp * mtniber
of difFer«Pt kinds. One, and a very important one, is
tbfi^.of jiunijan.testimony.. . On tUsia^great part of human
knowledge depends. History and law tesoft to it for the
materials of decision and faith. To examine, to com-
p^e, and .to ^p.r^ci^ie this kind of evidence is the busi-
itess of th.&>uK%fey'tbe.j»r^iaa]^, the counsel, and the party.
>yidiout son^ con^^tent discemm^t concerning it, no
i^f^p i:an act wllhjcomm^i prudence or safety in die
ovdiii^ry occurrences of life.

Another kind of probable evidence is, the opinion of
those, who are professional judges of the point in question.

LECTURES ON LAW. ^53

la England, a reference is sometimes made to the judges
for their opinions in a matter of law. On a trial, recourse
is frequently had to the professional sentiments of a
physician. A shoemaker could point out to Apelles
himself a defect in the picture of a shoe. A tyrant,
nurtured and practised in the tyrant's art, could, at the
first glance, discover a mistake in the representation of a
decollated head.

A third kind of probable evidence is that, by which
we recognisV>the identity of the same thing, and the
diversity of different things. This kind of evidence is of
the greatest consequence in the affairs of life. By it, the
identity of persons and things is determined ip courts of
justice. In acquiring, retaining, and applying this kind
of evidence, there is a wonderful diversity of talents in
different men. Some will recollect and distinguish
almost all the faces they have ever seen : others are much
more slow, and n^uch less retentive in this species of
recollection and discrimination.

There are many other kinds of probable evidence, that
well deserve the study of the lawyer, the philosopher,
and the man. But this is not the proper occasion to
attempt an enumeration of them.

Every free action has two causes, which cooperate in
its production. One is moral ; the other is physical : the
former is the will, which determines the action ; the
latter is the power, which carries it imto execution. A
paralytick may will to run : a person able to run, may be
unwilling: from: the want of will in^me, and the want of
power in the other, each remains in his place.

354l LECTURfift OK LAW.

\

Our actions and the determinations of our wUl Art
' generally accompanied with liberty. The name of liberty
we give to that power of the mind, by which it modifies,
regulates, suspends, continues, or alters its deliberations
and actions. By this faculty, we have some degree of
command over ourselves : by this faculty we become
capable of conforming to a rule : possessed of this faculty,
we are accountable for our conduct.

But the existence of this faculty has been boldly
called in question. It has been asserted, that we have no
sense of moral liberty ; and thst, if we have such a sense,
it is fallacious.

With regard to the first question, let every one ask it
ef himself. Have I a sense of moral liberty? Have I a
conviction that I am free ? If you have ; this sense-^— this
conviction is a matter of fact, or an object of intuition \
and vain it is to reason against its truth or existence.

If it exists ; why is it to be deemed fallacious ? Arc
there peculiar marJcs of deception discoverable in it?
Can any reason be assigned why we should suspect it, and
not every other sense or power of our nature ? He that
made one, made all. If we are to suspect all ; we ought
to believe nothing.

But by what one especial power are we told that we
ought to suspect all others ? On which- is this exclusive
character of veracity impressed ? If Nature is fallacious ;
how do we learn to detect the cheat ? If she is a juggler
by trade ; is it for us to attempt to penetrate the mysteries
of her art, and take upon us to decide when it is that she
presents a true, and when it is that she presents a false

L£CTUA£8 0|7 LAW, S55

tippearacnce ? If she is false in every odier instance^ how
can we believe her, when she says she is a liar ?

But she does not say so. She is, and she claims to
be honest ; and the law of our constitution determines us
to believe her. When we feel, or when we perceive by
intuition, that we are free ; we may assume the doctrine
of moral liberty, as a first and selfevident, though an
^iindemonstrable principle.

I have frequently mentioned first principles. The
evidence, on which they ought to be received, well
deserves discussion and attention. This is a subject
which has been greatly misunderstood, and, perhaps,
];nisrepresented. It is a subject, in which inferences,
destructive of all knowledge and virtue, have been drawn,
with all the pomp and parade of metaphysical sagacity.
It is a subject, concerning which proper conceptions are
essentially necessary to the progress of all science, that
is truly valuable. They are peculiarly necessary in the
study of law, in which evidence bears such an active
9XiA distinguished part. To believe our senses — ^to give
credit to human testimony, has been considered as unphi-
losophical, and, consequently, irrational, if not absurd.
The connjexion, on this subject, between the principles
of law, of philosophy, and of hu^an nature has never,
so far as I know, been sufficiently traced or explained.

Of some philosophers of no small fame, and of no
Wiall influence in propagating a certain fashionable—-
creed, I was going to say ; but that would be peculiarly
improper — system I will call it, by a particular induU
gence — Of such philosophers it has been the favourite
doctrine, that reason is the supreme arbitress of human

^-_.

256 LKCTURES Olf LAW.

knowledge ; that by her solely we ought to be governed;
that in her solely we ought to place confidence ; that
she can establish first principles ; that she can ascertain
and correct the mistakes of common sense.

Reason is a noble faculty, and when kept within its.
proper sphere, and applied to its proper uses, exalts hu-
man creatures almost to the rank of superiour beings.
But she has been much perverted, sometimes to vile,
sometimes to insignificant purposes. By some, she has
been chained like a slave or a malefactor ; by others,
she has been launched into depths unknown or fcM--
bidden.

Are the dictates of our reason more pdain, than th«
dictates of our common sen$e ? Is there allotted to the
former a portion of infallibility, which has been denied
to the Is^ter ? If reason may mistake ; how shaU the
mistake be rectified? shall it be done by a second process
of reasoning, as likely to be mistaken as the first ? Are
wc thus involved, by the constitution of our nature, in*
a labyrinth, intricate and endless, in which there is no
clue to guide, no ray to enlighten us ? Is this true philo^
sophy ? is this the daughter of light? is this the parent of
wisdom and knowledge i No. This is not she. This is
a fallen kind, whose rays are merely sufficient to shed a
" darkness visible" upon the human powers ; and to dis-
turb the security and ease enjoyed by those^ who have
not become apostates to the pride of science. ' Such
degenerate philosophy let us abandon : let us renounce
its instruction: let us embrace the philosophy which
dwells with common sense.

• r • •

. This philosophy will teach us, that firdt principles are ^
in themselves apparent ; that to make nothing selfevident,

LECTUEES ON LAW. 257

I

is to take away all possibility of knowing any thing/
that without first principles, there can be neither reason
fior reasoning; that discursive knowledge requires intui-
tive maxims as its basis ; that if every truth would admit'
of proof, proof would extend to infinity ; that, consequent-
ly^ all sound reasoning must rest ultimately on the princi-
ples of common sense— principles supported by original
and intuitive evidence.

In the investigation of this subject, we shall have
the pleasure to find, that thoise philosophers, who have
attempted to fan the flames of war between common
sense and reason, have acted the part of incendiaries
in the commonwealth of science ; that the interests
of both are the lame ; that, between them, there never
can be ground for resd opposition : that, as they are
commonly joined together in speech and in writing, they
are inseparable also, in their nature.

We assign to reason two offices, or two degrees. The
first is, to judge of things selfevident. The second is,
from selfevident principles, to draw conclusions, which
are not selfevident. The first of these is the province,
and the sole province, of common sense, and, therefore,
in its whole extent, it coincides with reason ; and is only
another name for one branch or one degree of reason.
Why then, it may be said, should it have a particular
name assigned to it, since it is acknowledged to be only
a degree of reason ? To this it may be answered, why
would you abolish a name, which has found a place in
all civilized languages, and has acquired a right by pre-
scription? But this degree of reason ought tabe distin*
guished by a particular name, on two accounts. 1 • In
the greatest part of mankind, no other degree of reason

vol. I. L 1

258 LECTURES ON LAW*

\

Is to be found. It is this degree of reason, ^d this onljr,
which makes a man capable of managing his own affairs^
and ansiiv:erable for his conduct towards others. 2, This
degree of reason is purely the gift of heaven -, and where
heaven has not given it, no education can supply it;
though, where it is given, it may, in a certain degree,

•

be improved. But the second degree of reason is
learned by practice and rules, where the fi^'st is want-
ing.

From the age of Blato down to the present century,
it has been the opinion of philosophers, that nothing is
perceived but what is in the mind which perceives it :
that the mind takes no direct co^izance of external
things ; but that it perceives them through the medium
of certain shadows or images of them: those images
were called by the ancients species j JormSj phantasms;
by the modems they are called ideas.

On this foundation the systems of Des Cartes and
Locke have been built. The doctrines of Mr. Locke
have been received, not only in England, but in many
other parts of Europe, with unbounded applause ; and to
his theory of the human understanding the same kind of
respect and deference has been paid, as to the discoveries
of Sir Isaac Newton in the natural world.

The school of Mr. Locke has given rise to two sects:
at the head of one are Berkely and Hume : at the head
of the other are Hartley and Priestley*

• •

Iii the extension of Mr. Locke's principles, the Bishop
of Cloyne conceived that he saw reason to deny the
reality of matter ; and to resolve all existence into mind*

LECTURES ON LAW* 259

In his Qwh sublime language, he thought he discovered,
*' that all the choir of heaven and furniture of the earth ;
' all those bodies that compose the frame of the universe,
are merely ideas, and exist only in the mind."

Mr. Hume, proceeding on the same principles of rea-
soning, advances boldly a step farther : he thinks he sees
reason for denying the existence of mind as well as of
matter; he annihilates spirit as well as body; and re-'
duces mankind — I use his own words — to " a bundle or
collection of different perceptions, which sucdeed each
other with an inconceivable rapidity, and are in a perpe-
■tual flux and movement." " There is properly no sim-
plicity in the mind, at one time ; nor identity in it at dif-
ferent times ; whatever natural propensity"r—tis indeed
natural— " we may have to imagine that simplicity and
identity : they are successive perceptions only, that con-
stitute the mind." ?

On the other hand. Dr. Hartley, assuming the ex-
istence of an ^immaterial principle, and of an external
world, has endeavoured to trace the connexion between
them. By a chain of hypotheses, he has attempted to
illustrate the nature of the impressions, which the senses
receive from external objects ; the laws, by which those
impressions influence our ideas ; and the rules of asso-
ciation, by which these ideas are connected in our mind.
He has thus formed a system, which, in the opinion of
some enlightened men, explains, in a satisfactory manner,
most of the operations of the thinking faculty.

Dr. Priestley has embraced these doctrines with his
usual warmth ; and has propagated them with his well

s Tr. on hum. nat. 439. 440.

260 LECTURES ON LATT*.

/ ^

known zeal. He is of opinion, however, that ikey ought
to be further simplified. A principle, separate from
body, he contends is an incumbrance on Dr. Hartley's
system. On the principles of deduction, satisfactory to
him, he asserts, that to matter, we should ascribe the
capacity of intelligence, as well as the property of gra-
vitation. Thought he believes to arise necessarily from
a certain organization of the brain ; and, resting on this^.
he denies the existence of an immaterial principle. *

Different — exceedingly different indeed — ^nay, totally
irreconcilable are these illustrious men in the conclu-
sions, ^vhich they draw. But however widely they dif-
fer, however impracticable it may be to reconcile them
with regard to their conclusions j they all agf ee concern^
ing their fundamental principles. They all agree in as^
suming the existence of ideas* This is the fundamental
principle of Mr. Locke's philosophy.

Strange has been the fate of this principle ! Strange
have been the vicissitudes, with which it has been at-
tended ! Strange have been the revolutions, which it has
been thought capable of producing! What a powerful
engine it has been ! In skilful and experienced hands,
how tremendous have been its operations! Wielded l^^
one philosopher, it attaches itself solely to matter, and
destroys mind. Wielded by another, it attaches itself
solely to mind, and* destroys matter. Wielded by a
third, it becomes equally fatal to matter and mind : by a
single fiat of uncreating omnipotence, it strikes body and
spirit, time and space into annihilation ; and leaves no-
thing remaining but impressions and ideas !

We have hitherto been apt, perhaps, with unphiloso-
phick credulity, to imagine, that thought supposed a

LECTURES ON LAW. 261

thinker ; and that treason implied a traitor. But correct
philosophy, it seems, discovers, that all this is a mis.
take ; for that there may be treason without a traitor,
laws without a legislator, punishment without a sufferer.
If, in these cases, the ideas are the traitor, the legisla-
tor, the sufferer ; the author of this discovery ought to
inform us, whether ideas can convierse together; whe-
ther they can possess rights, or be under obligations ;
whether they can make promises, enter into covenants,
fulfil, or break them ; whether, if they break them, da-
mages can be recovered for the breach. If one set of
ideas make a covenant ; if another successive set— for
be it remembered they are all in succession— break thc^
covenant; and if a third successive set are punished
for breaking it ; how can we discover justice to form
any pari of this system? These professional questions
naturally suggest themselves.

Will these philosophers forgive me, if, from this
dreary prospect — if a view of nothing can be called a
prospect — I turn my eyes, and direct them to another
scene, not indeed so solemn or awful, but such as, in one
particular, bears to it a certain strong, though, perhaps, a
ridiculous analogy. I would wish to pay all becoming
deference to a system, venerable by its high antiquity,
and fortified by the authority of philosophers without
number. The images, and species, and phantasms of the
ancients, and the ideas of the modems, I wish to con-
template and treat with all imaginable respect. But there
is an unlucky okject of comparison, which constantly
presents itself to my view. I cannot think of this doctrine
of ideas, so versatile in its nature and application, with-
out thinking, at the same time, of another doctrine,
which has likewise been uncommonly powerful in its

S62 LECTURES ON tAW.

s

operations and effects. Shall I be forgiven ?— I repeat
the question — if, upon this occasion, I introduce-— my
Lord Peter's brown loaf. His lordship presented it once ;
it was excellent mutton. He presented it a second time :
it was delicious beef. He presented it a third time : it
was exquisite plumb pudding.

Shall I be perniitted to ask one question — I think, a

-very natural one-^<iid the brown loaf ever exist ? If it

never existed at all ; my Lord Peter was equally infal-

f lible, when he called it mutton, as when he called it

plumb pudding ; and when he called it plumb pudding,

as when he called it mutton or beef.

Shall I be permitted to ask another question — equally
niatural as the former ? These images, and species, and
phantasms of the ancients ; these ideas of the modems —
did they ever exist ? You will unquestionably Be sur-
prised when I tell you, that though, from the time of
Plato and Aristotle to the time of Berkely and Hume,
ideas and species have been supposed to lie at the foun-
dation of the philosophy of the human mind, and, con-
sequently, of all philosophy and knowledge ; yet that
foundation has never, till lately, been examined ; but
that the existence of ideas and species has always been
assumed as a doctrine taken for granted. You will,
perhaps, be further surprised, on being told, that, when
lately the rubbish, which, during the long course of two
thousand years, had covered and concealed the founda-
tions of philosophy, was removed; and when those
foundations were examined by an architect of uncommon
discernment and skill ; no such things as the ideas of
the modems, or the species of the ancients were to be
.discovered there.

LECTURES ON LAW* 269

ii

I acknowledge," says the enlightened and candid
. Dr. Reid,^ "that I never thought of calling in question
the principles commonly received with regard to the
human understanding, until the Treatise of Human
Nature was published." This is the performance of Mn
Hume, from which I cited a passage a little while ago.
It appeared in the year 1739. " The ingenious author,"
continues Dr. Reid, "of that treatise, upon the princi-
ples of Locke, who was no sceptick, hath built a system
of scepticism, which leaves no ground to believe any one
thing rather than its contrary. His reasoning appeared
to me to be just : there was, therefore, a necessity to call
in question the principles, upon which it was founded;
or admit the conclusion.

^' But can any ingenious- mind admit this sceptical
system without reluctance ? I truly could not : for I am
persuaded that absolute scepticism is not more destructive
of the faith of a christian, than of the science of a philo*
sopher, and of the prudence of a man of common under-
standing."—*! may add-— or the sound principles of a
lawyer or statesman. ^^ I am persuaded," continues the
Doctor, " that the unjust live by faith, as well as the
just ; and that, if all belief could be laid aside, piety,
patriotism, friendship, parental affection, and private
virtue would appear as ridiculous as knight errantry;
and that the pursuits of pleasure, of ambition, and of
avarice must be grounded upon belief, as well as those
that are honourable and virtuous.

'* For my own satisfaction, I entered into a serious
examination of the principles, upon which this sceptical

«

^ Ihq. Ded. 4— 8.

264 LECTURES ON LAW.

system is built ; and was not a little surprised to fiifcf,
that it leans with its wh6le weight upon a hypothesis^-
which is ancient indeed and hath been very generally
received by philosophers ; but of which I could find no
solid proof. The hypothesis I mean is, that nothing is
perceived but what is in the mind, which perceives it ;
that we do not really perceive things that are external^
but only certain images and pictures of them imprinted
upon the mind, which are called impressiolis and ideas,

^^ If this be true ; supposing ceitain impressions and
ideas to exist in my mind, I cannot, from their existence,
infer the existence of any thing else ; my impressions
and ideas are the only existences, of which I can have
any knowledge or conception, rand they are such fleeting
and transitory beings, that they can have no existence at
all, any longer than I am conscious of them. So that,
upon this hypothesis, the whole universe about me, bodies
and spirits, sun, moon, stars and earth, friends and rela-
tions, all things without exception which I imagined to
have a permanent existence, whether I thought of them
or noty vanish at once.

And like thr baseless fabrick of a vision,
Leave not a track behind.

"I thought it unreasonable, upon the authority of
philosophers^ to admit a hypothesis, which, in my opi-
nion, overturns all philosophy, all religion and virtue,
and all common sense ^ and finding that all the systems
concerning the human understanding, which I was ac-
quainted with, were built upon this hjrpothesis, I re-
solved to inquire into this subject anew, without regard
to any hypothesis,"

JLKCTURES ON LAW. 265

The fruits of his inquiries have been published ; and
richly deserve your perusal and attention. Others have
sawn and cultivated the same seeds of knowledge, with
the most encouraging success ; and there is reason to
hope, that the philosophy of human naturb will not
much longer continue the reproach of the human under-
standing.

Monopoly and exclusive privilege are the bane of
every thing— of science as well as of commerce. The
sceptical philosophers claim and exercise the privilege of
assuming, without proof, the very first principles of
^eir philosophy ; and yet thc;y require, from others, a
proof of every thing by reasoning. They are unreasona-
ble in both points. Some things, which ought to be be-
lieved, ought to be believed without proof. The first
principle of their philosophy— the existence of ideas-
is tione of those things. If it be true; it is a discursive,
not an intuitive truth ; and, therefore, it can be proved.
For this reason, unless^'it be proved,' it should not be
believed.

After having mentioned the sceptical philosophers, it
is with a degree of reluctance that I so soon introduce
the respected name of Mr. Locke. I introduce him not
as one of those philosophers, but as one, who has unfor-
tunately given a sanction to principles, the consequences
of which he certainly did not foresee. But from his
principles, those consequences have been ably and. unan-
swerably drawn by others. His principles, therefore,
ought to be minutely examined, that we may see whe-
ther, on a strict examination, they will stand the teQt.

VOL, !• . Mm

^66 LECTURES dN LAW,

I shall examine his leaditig principle by the veiy test,
which he himself proposes for its trial. Cautious and
candid as he was, it is very remarkable, that, while he
recommends it to others to be careful in the admission
of principles, he admits his own leading principle with-
out sufficient examination and care. ^ I take leave to
say" — I use his own words » — " I take leave to eay, that
every one ought very carefully to beware what he admits
for a principle, to examine it strictly, vtkd see whether
he certainly knows it to be true of itself by its own evi-
dence ; or whether he does only, with assurance, believe
it to be so upon the authority of others." And yet he
begins his observations on ideas and their original, by
assuming their existence, as his leading principle.
*^ Every man being conscious to himself dmt he thinks ;
and that which^ his mind is applied about, whilst think-
ing, being the ideas that are there, tis past doubt, that
men have in their minds several ideas»" ^^ It is, in the
^rst place, then, to be inquired how he comes by
them."J

With all deference for the character and talents of
Mr. Locke— <ind I have, indeed, a hi^ respect for
them — I think that a previous inquiry ought to hare been
made — Does he come by them? To assume, widiout
proving, that the things, which the mind is applied about,
whilst thinking, are the ideas that are there ; is certainly
to assume too much.

In another place, ^ he expretfiies a hopc^ that it wiU
be received as an intuitive trtttii-*-^8 one of that specie^

^ On hum. Und. b. 4. c. 20. s. 8.
j Id. b. 2. c. 1. 8. 1. ^ Id. Introd.

LSCTUilSB ON ,liAW0

S6r

of intuiljive. truths, wliich arise from coDSciousness. ^^ I
presume," ,say» Jie, ** it will be easily granted me, that
there btc such ideas in men's minds." Why so easily
granted ? Why should the leading principle of a philo-
^sciphyt wjuch, if true, n^cesssMrily draws us to such con-
sequeace^ as hafve b^^ rejiresented — ^wby should such a
pleading prin^ipte be taken. on trust i ^^ Because," continues
Mr. Locke^ ' **ev^ry one is conscious of them in himself."

Here is a fair aad .candid appeal : for if every one
is conscious of ideas in his own mind, he must believe
that such ideas are tl^fre : for consciousness is unques-
tionably a first principle of evidence. In this appeal I
have the pleasure of joining with Mr. Locke. In one
thing we certainly agree-— the object of both is to dis-
cover the truth. Of this truth, you shall be the judges,
or rather the triers between us ; for consciousness is a
jmattcr of fact.

But before we enter upon the trial of this appeal, let
us be sure that the point to be tried is clearly ascertained
and understood : let us not be misled by verbal ambigu-
ity, nor drawn into the field of verbal disputation. Ma-
.ny errours, and some of no inconsiderable importance,
have arisen from the vugue, the doubtful, or the inac-
curate applicailioii of the term idea*

By ideas are some^mes meant the acts or operations
of our minds in perceivings remembering, or imagining
objects. In Uiis sokse, the existence of ideas is far from
being called in question. We are conscious of them
every day and every hour of our lives.

I On Hum. Und. b, 1. c 1. s. 8.

268 LECTURES OM LAW.

Sometimes idea is used to denote tfptmon^-^hxxs^^
when we speak of the ideas of Cici^ro; we mean hi»
opinions or doctrines.

But there is a thiid sense, iia whidi the term idea has
4>een used. It has been used to denote^idiose images and
pictures of things, which, and not the things themselvesy
are the immediate objects perceived by the mind. -Those,
who speak the most intelligibly, explain their doctrine
in this manner. Suppose me to look at a mirrour ; and,
while I am looking at it, suppose a peison to come behiad
me ; I see, in the mirrour, not the person himself, but
his image. In the same maimer, when, without a mir^r
rour, I am supposed to see a house or a tree ; I see only
an image of those objects in my mind. This image is
the immediate object of my perception.

It is in this last sense, now explained, that an appeal
is made to your consciousness for the truth of the exist*
ence -of ideas.

You look at me : now I c^l for vour conscious ver^
diet. Are you conscious, that you really see me : or
are you conscious, that you see, not me, but odly a cer-
tain image or picture of jne, imprinted upon your own
minds \ If the latter ; your consciousnese decides in favour
of Mr. Locke : if the former ; it decides in favour of
me. In whose favour does your verdict decide ? Before
you finally declare it, it may, perhaps, be urged, that
you perceive me by means of intervening resemblances
of me, distinctly painted on the retime of your eyes.

This shows, that I am willing to give the cause an
impartial trial, n^y, an advantageous one, on the side of

LECTURES ON LAW. S69

my admired antagonist. From those parts only of our
knowledge, which are disclosed by the se^se of seeing^ .
could diis objection be urged.

I admit, that the resemblances mentioned are4istinct-
ly painted on the retinae of your eyes. But suffer me to
ask you— do you perceive those resemblances, so painted?
I presume you do not : for the existence of those resem-
blances was never, so far as I know or have heard,
perceived by any of the innumerable race of men : it'
was not so much as suspected, till in the last century.
Then. the discovery was made by Kepler: but even to
Kepler the discovery was not disclosed by consciousness:
it was the result of deep and accurate researches into the
philosophy of vision.

But I have not yet done with niy answer to this objec-
tion. That you do not perceive me by the intervention
of any perception of the resemblances painted on the
retinae of the eyes, is evident from two circumstances.
In the first place, the resemblances of me are painted on
the retinae of both eyes: therefore, if you saw me throtigh
the intervention of those resemblances, you would see
me double. In the second place, the resemblances of
me on the retinae are inverted : therefore, if you saw me
through the intervention of those resemblances, you
would see me turned upside down.

Are you now ready finally to declare your verdict ?
Do you perceive me ? or do you only perceive, in your
own minds, an image or picture of me ? v

I presume I may say, that the existence of ideas is
not the dictate of consciousness. Is the existence of

\

Z76 LECTURE OK tAW*

ideas entitled, in any o^r manner^ or from any other
source, to be coi^idered aa an intuitive truth? I have
not heard it suggested. If it is a truth, and • not am
intuitive one; it is a truth capable of being prqved:
if it is capaJbk of being proved ; it ought to k^ proved,
as we have ah'eady said, before it be belif ved.

A proof has. been attempted:: let us examine it»
^* No being, it is said, can act or be acted upon, bat
where it is ; and, consequently, our mind cannot act
upon, or be acted upon by any subject at a distance.'"^

This argument possesses one eminent advantage : its
obscurity, like that of an oracle, is apt to impose on the
hearer, who is willing to consider it as demonstration,
because he does not, at first, discover its fallacy. Let it'
-undergo a fair examination ; let it be drawn out, of its
obscurity: let it be stated and analyzed in a clear point
of view. Then it will appear as follows.

*^ No subject can be perceived, unless it acts, upon
the mind, or is acted upon by the miad : but no distant
object can act upon the mind, or be acted upon by the
mind ; for no being can act but whore it is : thei;efore
the immediate oli^ect of perception must be something
in the mind, so as to be able to act iip<m, or to be acted
upon by the mind." .

Now you see, fairly stated in all its parts, the argu-
ment, which is supposed to prove the necessity of phan*
tasms or ideas in the mind, as the only objects of
perception. It is singularly unfortunate for this argu-

" Reid'^ £88. Int 300* a Slem. GriU.^ld. n.

LECTURES ON LAW. 271

tnent, that it concludes directly against the very hypo-
thesis, of which it is the only foundation : for how can
phantasms or ideas be raised in the mind by things at a
distance, if things at a distance cannot act upon, or be
acted upon by the mind.

Again ; the argument assumes a proposition as true,
without evidence— that no distant subject can act upon,
or be acted upon by the mind. This proposition requires
evidence ; for it is not intuitively certain. Till this
proposition, therefore, be proved, every, man may ration-i
ally rely upon the conviction of his senses, that he sees
and hears objects at a distance.

But further ; to render the foregoing argument con-
elusive^ it ought to be proved, that when we perceive
objects, either they act upon us, or we act upon them.
This is not selfevident ; not is it proved. Indeed reasons
may be well offered against its admission.

When we say, that one being acts upoa another, we
mean that some power is exerted by the agent, which
produces, or tends to produce a change in the thing
acted upon. Now, there appears no reason for asserting,
that, in perception, either the object acts upon the mind,
or the mind upon the object. An object, in being per-
ceived, does not act at all. I perceive the desk before
me J but it is perfectly inactive ; and, therefore, cannot
act upon my mind. Neither does the mind, in percep-
tion, act upon the object. To perceive an object is one
thing: to act ilpon it is another thing. To say, that I
act upon the paper before me, when I look at it, is an
abuse of language. We have, therefore, no evidence,
that, in perception, the mind acts upon the object, or

^72 LECTURE* OK LAW.

the object upon the mind ; but strong evidence to the
contrary. The consequence is, that the very founda-
tion of the only argument brought to prove the existence
of ideas is sandy and unsound.

Thus the first principle of the ideal philosophy is
supported neither by intuition nor by proof. On what
pretension, then, can it lay any just claispi to our regard I

And yet this principle, unsupported, absurd, and un-
philosophical as it is, will, I believe, be found to be the
sole foundation laid, so far as any is laid, in our law^
books, for the philosophy of the law of evidence. My
Lord Chief Baron Gilbert, the most approved, and
deservedly the most approved writer on this pa^ of the
law, grounds his general observations on the doctrine of
Mr. Locke, that knowledge is nothing but the perception
of the agreement or disagreement of our ideas. ^

In one of my early lectures, o I made the following
observations. ^^ Despotism, by an artful use of ^ supe-
riority' in politicks ; and scepticism, by an artful use of
^ ideas' in metaphysicks, have endeavoured«^-^md their
endeavours have frequently been attended with too much
success — ^to destroy all true liberty and sound philosophy.
By their baneful effects, the science of man and the
science of government have been poisoned to their very '
fountains. But those destroyers of others have met, or
must meet with their own destruction." I have put you
in possession pf materials to judge for yourselves whether
these observations are or are not well founded.

" GUb. £v. 1— a o Ante. p. 67.

L£CTUR£S ON LAW. 273

At first si^ht, it would seem strange that the princi-
ples of Jaw^ as they are laid down in a book, which is
very generally received for authority, should be destruc-
tive of liberty ; and that the principles of the philos<^hy
of the human mind, as they likewise are generally
received and taught, should be subversive of all truth and
knowledge. But after what we have seen ; is it not as
true. as strange ?

This investigation has cost me some trouble : to you
I hope it will be attended with some advantage. I
thought it my duty to make and to communicate it ;
because, without it, any superstructure of system, which
I could build, would not satisfy me as resting on a solid
foundation. Could I luive been justified in palming upon
you a system leaning on such principles as Vlo not satisfy
myself? - •

I know very well, that, in the business of life, the
dictates of common sense will always, and that in the
business of government, the spirit of liberty will some-
tmesL prevail over false theories^ of politicks andphiloso*
phy. But is this a reason why those false theories should
be received, or encouraged, or propagated ? Ought not
our conduct as men and as citizens to receive benefit
instead of detriment from the systems of our education ?
Qqe, whose practice is in diametrical, opposition to his
principles, stands always in an awkward, often in a painful,
sometimes in a dangerous situation.

I have said, that the spirit of liberty will sometimes

prevail over false theories of politicks. Unhappily I

could not, say more : I could not say, generally : far less

could I say, always. Let us look around us «nd behold

vot. I. V. N a

2f4 LECTURES ON LAW.

the sons of men, who inhabit this globe. What an lar-
mense proportion of them are the wretched slaves of
perverted opinion, of perverted system, of perverted
education, and of perverted example in matters relating
to the principles of society, and the rights of the humant
kind !

I hope I have now shown, that the philosophers before
mentioned unreasonably claimed the exclusive privilege
of assuming the first principle of their philosophy, with*
out proof: I now proceed to show, that they are equally
, unreasonable in requiring, from others, a proof of every
thing by reasoning.

The defects and blemishes of the received philosophy,
which have most exposed it to ridicule and contempt,
have been chiefly owing to a prejudice of the votaries of
this philosophy in favour of reason* They have endea«
voured to extend her jurisdiction beyond its just limits ;
and to call before her bar the dictates of common sense.
But these will not submit to this jurisdiction : they pkad
to its authority ; and disd^iin its trial ; they daim not its
aid ; they dread not its attacks*

In this unequal contest between reason and common
sense, the former will always be obliged to retreat both
with loss and with dishonour ; nor can she ever flourish,
till this rivalship is dropt,, till these encroachments are
given up, and till a cordial friendship is restored. For,.
in truth, reason has no other root than the principles of
common sense : it grows out of them : and from them it
draws its nourishment.

There are some common principles, which are tfce
foundation of all science, and of all reasoning* Before

LECTURES ON LAW. 2TS

men can argue together, they must agree in such princi-
.ples ; for it is impossible for two to reason, but from
principles held by them in common. Such common
principles seldom admit of direct proof; they need none ;
they are such as men of common understanding will
acknowledge as soon as they are proposed and un-
derstood.

Such principles, when we have occasion to use them
in science, are called axioms. Upon such, the finest, the
most elaborate, and the most sublime reasonings in
mathematicks are founded.

In every other science^ as well as in mathematicks,
there are some common principles, upon which all the
reasonings in that science are grounded, and into which
they may be resolved. If -these were pointed out and
considered, we should be better able to judge concerning
the strength and certainty of the conclusions in that
science.

It is not impossible, that what is only a vulgar preju-
dice may be mistaken for a first principle. ,Nor is it
impossible, that what is really a first principle, may, by
the enchantment of words, have such a mist thrown
about it, as to hide its evidence, and make a man of
candour doubt concerning it.

The peripatetick philosophy, instead of being defi-
cient, was redundant in first principles $ instead of reject-
ing^ those, which are truly such, it. adopted, as such,
many vulgar prejudices and rash judgments. This
seems, in general, to have been the spirit of ancient
philosophy.

^^gMH^J

i7^ LECTURES ON LAW.

How naturally one y xtreme prodnces its opposite !
Des Cartes, at the head of modem reformers in philo-
sophy, anxious to avoid the snare, in which Aristotle
and the peripateticks had been caught — ^that of admitting
things too rashly as first principles— resolved to doubt of
every thing, till it was clearly proved* He would not
assume, as a first principle, even his own existence. In
what manner he supposed nonexistence could institute,
or desire to institute a series of proof to prove existence
or any thing else, we are not informed.

I

He thought he could prove his existence by his
famous enthymem — Cogito, ergo sum. I think, there-
fore, I exist. Though he would not assume the existence
of himself as a first principle, h^ was obliged to assume
the existence of his thoughts as a first principle. But is
this entitled to any degree of preference ? Can one, who
doubts whether he exists, be certain that he thinks ? And
may not one^ who^ without proof, takes it for granted
that he thinks — may not such an one, without the impu-
tation of unphilosophic'k credulity, take it for granted^

- likewise without proof, that he exists ?

I

■■■ — .

In every just proof, a proposition less evident Is in-
ferred from one, which, is more evident. How is it
more evident that we think, than that we exist ? Both
are equally evident : one, therefore, ought not to be first
assumed, and then used as a proof of the other.

But. further; if we attend to the strict rules of
proof ; the existence of Des Cartes was not legitimately
inferred from the existence of his thoughts. If -the in-
ference is legitimate ; it must become legitimate* by es-
tablishing this proposition— <that thought cannot exitt

LECTURES. ON LAW. 27/

without a thinking being. But did Dtes Cartes, or has
any of his followers proved this proposition ? They have
not proved it: they cannot prove it. Mr. Hume has
denied it ; and has triumphantly challenged the world
to establish it by proof. The basis of his philosophy is,
as we have already seen — " that a train of successive
perceptions constitute the mind."

Let me not here be misunderstood. When I say,
that the existence of a thinking principle, called the
mind, has not been and cannot be proved ; I am far from
saying, that it is not true, that such a thinking principle
exists. I know — I feel — it to be true ; but I know it
not from proof ; I know it from what is greatly superiour
to proof: I see it by the shining light of intuition.

Why will philosophers, by a preposterous pride,
wish and endeavour to be indebted, for the discovery of
every thing, to the feeble and glimmering rays of their
own tapers, when they have only to throw the window
open, and they will behold every thing illuminated by
the splendour of the meridian sun ?

Let me, upon this subject, further observe, that
strongly as Des Cartes was seized with this phobia of
first principles, he was obliged, in one instance at leasts
to suffer the detested liquid to touch his lips. Cogito,
says he : I think. You think ! How do you prove that ?
You, who will not believe your own existence without
proof — can you consistently dispense with the proof of
the existenice of your thoughts ? He is obliged to submit
to the inconsistency. He assumes the existence of his
thoughts, as a first principle. Why did he not pursue
Ae same course with regard to other intuitive truths i

%7B ' • LEGTUHES ON LAW.

As the last observation on this subject, I beg leave to
take notice, that, in this remarkable enthymem, Des
Cartes assumed the very thing to be proved. Cogito.
/ think. Who are you ? Existence ia implied in the
very proposition, that 0/1^ thinks.

To the distinction between £rst principles and those
principles, which may be ascribed to the power of rea-
soning, it is not a just objection, that there may be some
judgments, concerning which we may be doubtful, to
which class they should be referred. In painting and in
nature, two colours, very diflFerent, may so run into one
another, as to render it difficult to perceive where one
ends and the other begins.

Let us then conclude — ^for we may safely conclude —
that all knowledge, obtained by reasoning, must be built
on first principles* When we examine, by analysis, the
evidence of any proposition ; we find, either that it is
selfevident ; or that it rests uppn one or more proposi-
tions, which support it. The same thing may be said of
the propositions, which support it ; and of those again,
which support them. But we cannot go back, in this
tract, to infinity. Where, then, must the analysis stop f
When we come to propositions, which support all that
are built upon them, but are themselves supported by
none : in other words, when we come to selfevident
propositions.

All first principles must be the immediate dictates of
our natural faculties ; nor is it possible that we should
have any other evidence of their truth. In dif&rent
sciences, the faculties, which dictate these first principles,
are yery different : the eye, in astronomy and opticks : the
ear, in musick : the moral sense, in morals.

r-\

LECTURES ON LAW. 279

Some first principles yield conclusionsy which are
certain ; others yield such only as are probable. In just
reasoning) the strength or weakness of the conclusion
wtll always correspond to the strength or weakness of
the principles, on which it is grounded. But the lowes^
degree of probability, as well as absolute certainty, must
be grounded ultimately on first principles.

After hearing so much concerning first principles, the
question will naturally snggest itself— are they ascer-
tained and pointed out? That they were so, is most ar*-
dently to be desired. Iii mathematicks, they have been
so, as far back as the annals of literature can carry us*
And the consequence has been, that, in mathema;ticks,
we find no sects, or contrary systems. This science,
founded upon first principles, as upon a rock, has been
increased from age to age, till it has become the loftiest
and most solid fabrick, which human reason can boast.

Till within these two hundred years, natural philoso*
phy was in the. same fluctuating state with the other
sciences. Every new system pulled up the old one by
the roots. The great Lord Bacon first marked out the
' o;ily foundation, on which natural philosophy could be
built. His celebrated successour. Sir Isaac Newton,
gave the first and noblest examples of that chaste induc«-
tion, of which his guide in the principlies of science
could only delineate the theory. He reduced the prin*
ciples of Lord Bacon into a few axioms, which he csdls
^^ regulae philosophandi,*' — ^rules of philosophising. From
these, ^together with the phenomena observed by the
senses, which he likewise assumes as first principles, he
deduces, by strict reasoning, the propositions of his
philosophy; and, in this manner, has erected an edifice,

2§0 ' LECTU&ES ON LAW.

which stands immovable upon the basis of Erst and self*
evident principles. This edifice has been enlarged by
the accession of new discoveries, made since his time ;
but it has not been subjected to alterations in the
plan.

The other sciences have not, as yet, been so fortu-
nate as those of mathematicks and natural philosophy.
Indeed the other sciences, compared with these, have
this disadvantage, that it is more difficult to form dis-
tinct and determinate conceptions of the objects, about
which they are employed. But this difficulty, though
great, is not insurmountable : it may afford a reason
why the other sciences have had a longer infancy ; but
It can afford none, why they may not, at last, arrive
at maturity by the same steps as those of a quicker
growth.

If the same unanimity concerning first principles
could be introduced into the other sciences, as in those
of mathematicks and natural philosophy ; this might be
considered as a new era in the. progress of human
reason. **

Some first principles I have already had occasion to
notice : in the course of my system, . Qthers will come
forward into view ; and will receive particular attention ;
especially in the important law of evidence, upon which
the practical use of the whole municipal law entirely
rests. For the facts must be ascertained by evidence,
before they are , susceptible of an application of the law.
** Ex facto oritur ju^." How can facts be satisfactorily

? Reid's Inq. 483.

LECTURES ON LAW. 281

^ established, unless the genuine philosophy of evidence be
known ?

Investigation will, perhaps, disclose to us, that this
part of philosophy has been best known, where the
knowledge of it has been least expected.

VOL. I. O O

y

CHAPTER VII.

OF MAN, AS A MEMBER OF SOCIETY.

.^«

XT is not fit that man should be alone," said the all-
wise and all-gracious Author of our frame, who knew
it, because he made it ; and who looked with compas-
sion on the first solitary state of the work of his hands.
Skociety is the powerful magnet, which, by its unceasing
though silent operation, attracts and influences our dis-
pbsitions, our desires, our passions, and our enjoyments.,
That we should be anxious to share, and, by sharing, to
divide our afflictions, may, to some, appear by no means
strange, because a pertain turn of thinking will lead them
to ascribe this propensity to the selfish rather than to the
social part of our nature. But will this interested solu-
tion account for another propensity, equally uniform and
equally strong? We are xto less impatient to conununi-
cate our pleasures than our woes. Does self-interest
predominate here i No. Our social affection acts here
unmixed and uncontrolled.

284 LECTURES ON LAW.

f *■

There's not a blessing individuals find,
But some way leans and hearkens to the kind.
No bandit fierce, ho tyrant mad with pride^
No caverned hermit rests self-satisfied.
Who most to shun or hate -mankind pretend ,
Seek an admirer, or would fix a friend.
Abstract wh^t others feel, what others think.
All pleasures sicken, and all glories sink.^

In all our pictures of happiness, which, at certain gay
and disengaged moments, appear, in soft and allurin^
colours, to our fancy, does not a partner of our bliss al-
ways occupy a conspicuous place ? When, on the other
hand, phantoms of misery haunt our disturbed imagina-
tions, do not solitary wanderings frequently form a prin-
cipal part of the gloomy scenes ? It is not an uncommon
opinion, and, in this instance, our opinions must be
vouched by our feelings, that the mo^t exquisite punish-
ment, which human nature could suffer, would be, in
total^ solitude, to languish out a lengthened life.

^^ These deep solitudes" is the circunistance that first
bursts from th^ labouring bosom of the clpistered Eloisa,
when she describes the "awful cells,'* where '^ever
musing melancholy reigns*"

How va^rious and how unwearied are the wcwkings of
the social aim ! Deprived of one support, it lays hold on
another; deprived of that other, it lays hold on another
s'tiH. While an ii^telUgent, or even an animate being
can be ibund, it will find an object for its unremitted
pwpsuk and attachment. " •

^ Pope's Ess. Mai), S9» ^y-^ 39-

LECTUKE8 t»r I«AV. '285

We may extract sweet lessons of liberty and sociabi-
lity from the prison of barbarous and despotick power*
A French nobleman was long immnred in a dreary and
solitary apartment.- When he had uttere4 many an un-
availing sigh after socie^, he, at last, was fortunate
enough to discover a spider, who had taken tip his abode
in the same room. Delighted with the acquisition, be
immediately formed a social intercourse with the joint
inhabitant of his sequestered mansion. He enjoyed,
without molestation, this society for a considerable time.
But the con^espondence was, at last, discovered by his
keeper, long tutored and accustomed to all the ingenious
inventions and refinements of barbarity. By an efibrt,
which evinced him ^ c<»isummate master of his art, he
kiHed the spider, and reduced his prisoner again to
au>6olute solitude. The nobleman, after his release, used
frequently to declare, that he had seldom experienced
more poignant distress, than iwhat he had suffered from
. %e loss, of his companion in confinemeirt.

Some philosophers, however, have alleged, that society
is not natural, but is only adventitious to us ;' that it is
the mere consequence of direful necessity ; that, by na*
ture, men are wolves to men ; not wolves to wolves ; for
between them union and society 'have a place; but as
woiv^s^to sheep, destroyers and devourers.. Men, ndy
they, are made for rapine; they are destined to prey
upon one another : each is to fight for K^ctory, and to
subdue and enslave as many of his fsttow creatures, as he
possibly can, by tseachery or by force» According to
tiieae philosophers, the only natural principles of man
ace atlfi^mess>, and. an insatiable desire of tyranirp" and
dominion. Their conclusion is, that a state of nature,
instead of being a stal^ of kindness,^ society, and peace, is

^

286 LSCTURflS ON LA#.

a state of selfishness, discord, and war; By a strange
penrersion of things, they would so explain all the social
passions and natural affections, as to denominate them of
the selfish species* Humanity and, hospitality towards
strangers or those in distress are represented as selfish-
ness, <Hily of a more, deliberate kind. An honest heart
is only a cunning one ; and good nature is a well regu-
lated Self-love. The Jove of posterity, of kindred, of*-
country, and of maiDkind-«-all these are only so many
different modifications of this universal self-love.

But if we attend to our nature and our state ; if we
listen to the operations of our own minds, to our disposi-
tions, our sensations, and our propensities ; we shall be
fully and agreeably convinced, that the namow and
hideQus representation of. these philosophers is not
founded on the truth of things ; but, on the contrary, is
totally repiigiumtto all himan sentiment, and all human
experience. Inideed, an appeal to diemselves will evince,,
that their philosophy is not consistent even with the
instinctive principles of their own hearts — ^principles, of
which the native lustre will, at some times, beam forth,
QOtwiAistanding all the care employed to cover or ex-
tinguish it. The celebrated Sage of Malmesbury, savage
and unsociable as he would make himsetf and all mankind
appear, took the utmost pains that, during his life, and
even after his death, others might be kindly rescued from
the unhappy 4^1usions, by ¥rhich they were prevented
from discovering the truth. ^He told us ^^ that both in
religion and in morals, we were imposed on by our go-
vemours ; that there is nothing, whidi, hiy natute, inclines
us either way ; and that nothing naturally draws us to

i» 1. Shaft. Char. 9ft

LEGTURS8 OH LAW» tST

the love of what is wtthout or. beyond ourselves." And
yet he was the most laborious of all.«cben in compdsang
and publishing systems of this kind— ^r our use.

To suchphilosophete^ animated with this preposterous
zeal, this answer, in the spk-it of thmr own doctrines, is
plahi and easy» If thereris nodting to carry you without
yourselves ; what are we- to you ? From what motives do
you give yourselves all this concern about us ? What can
induce you to trim your nkidnight lamp, and waste your
spirits in laborious vigils,. for our instruction? . You dis*
claim all social connexion with your species ; what, then^
we say again, are we to you'?

• • • * *

. But a subject, in itself so material- to the sciences of
philosophy and of law, ^merits a serious, a full, imd a.
patient discussion. For it is. of high .practical impor-
tance, that the principles of society* should be * properly
explained and well understood. It ha8:been^ one of the
happy charactaristicks of the present age, both on tibis and
on the other aide of the Atlantick, that the spirit of philo-
sophy has ,been wisely directed to the just investigation
of those principles ; and that the spirit of patriotism has
been vigorously exerted in their support.

* In a very early part of these lectures^ ^ it was obser-
vedf concerning definitions and divisions, tiliat by them
we are in danger of circumscribing nature within the
limits of our own notions, formed frequently on partial
and defective views. A very remarkable instance of
this occurs in the subject, on the examination of which
we now enter.

^ Ante. p. 58.

das LECTURfiS OW LAW*

^ The intellectual powets of the mitid have been com-
mraljr, divided hiix>. simple apprehension^ judgment^ and
reasoning. This dmsidfi <hcb received the sanction o£
high antiquity, and of a very extensive adoption ; yet it.
is far from being complet^e* From it many of the opera-
tions of the undersdoiding ave etxcluded, such a^ con-
sciousness, moral pe|t:eptioii, taste, memory, and our
perception of bfbjects by meaiis of our estemat senses.
But, besides all. these, there is a whole class, and a very
importsuit one too, of our uvteUectual operadoBS, which,,
because they were not fortunate' enough tx> be included
within the foregoing davisiouy have been overlooked by
philosophers, and have not eve]| yet been distinguished
by a name. Some operations of the mind may take
place in a solitary, state : others, front their very nature,
are social; and necessarily suppose a communication
w«th some other intelligent being. In.a state of absolute^
solitude,, one may apprehend, and judge^ and reason* But
when Itte. beai^ or hears testtmony.; when he gives or
receives a commasid; when he ehters into an engagement
by a promise or a contract ; these acts imply necessarily
something more than apprehension, judgment^ and rea*
soning ; they imply necesslu*ily a society with other
beings, social as well as intelligent.

Simple apprehension is unaccompanied with any
jjidgmexit o» belief,, concerning the object apprehended.
Judgment is formed, as these philosophers say, by com*'
paring' ideas, and by perceivlqg their agreements and
disagreements* Reasoning is an operation, by which^
feoin two or more judgments^ we deduce sl Qondusion.
Now, from this account of these three operations of the
mind, it appears unquestionably, that testimony is nei-
ther apprehension, nor ju4gment, nor reasoning. The

I.BGTURES ON I,4W« 9^

«ame observation will apply? with the same propriety,
to a promise, to an agreement, to a contract. TestimcK
ny, agreements, contracts, promises fprm very distin.
guished titles in that law, which itis the object of tbe^^
lectures to delineate: perhaps it had already been
evinced to your satisfaction, th^t 9ome of them fpria
its very basis.

That system of human nature must, indeed, 9ippe93^
extremely inadequate and defective, by which artideg
of such vast importance, both in theory and in the busi-
ness of life, are left without a place, an4 with^aiut %
name.

The attempts of some philosophers to reduce the
social operations under the common philos<^hical divi*
aions, resemble very much the attempts of others, to
reduce all our social affections to certain n^odificationji
of self love. The Author pf oiir existence intended us
to be social bebgs; and has, for that end, given us social
intellectual powers. They are original parts pf our
constitmion ; and their exertions are no less naturd
than the exertions of those powers, which are solitaay
and selfish.

Our social intellectual operations appear early in life
and before we are capable of reasoning; yet they suppose
a conviction of the existence of other intcfiigent an4
social beings. A child asks a question of his nurse^
and waits for her answer : this implies fi co^iviction that
•he is intelligent and social; that she can receive aqi4
return a conuwuiocation of thoughls mA sentiments,

TOl.. I. p p

390 LECTURES ON LAWv

All languages are fitted to express the social as well
as the solitary operations of the mind. To express the
former is indeed the primary and the direct intention
of language. . A man, who had no interchange of sen«
timents with other social and intelligent beings, would
, be as mute as the irrational animals that surround him.
By language, we communicate to others that, which we
know : by language, we learn from others that, of
which we are ignorant : by language, we advise, per-
suade, console, encourage, sooth, restrain : in conse-
quence of language, we are united by political societies,
government, and laws : by means of language, we are
raised from a situation, in which we should be as
rude and as savage as the beasts of the woods.

In the more imperfect societies of mankind, such
as those composed of colonies scarcely settled in their
new seats, it might pass for sufficient good fortud&, if
the people proved only so far masters of language, ^s to
be able to understand one another, to confer about their
wants, and to provide for their c6mmon necessities.
Their^exposed and indigent state would not afford them
either that leisure or that easy disposition, which is
requisite for the cultivation of the fine arts. They,
who were neither safe from violence, nor secure from
want, would not be likely to engage in unnecessary
pursuits. It could not be expected that they would
turn their attention towards the numbers of their lan-
guage, or to its best and most perfect application and
arrangement. But when, in process ^f time, the affairs
of the Society were settled on an easy and secure founda*
tion ; when debates and discourses, on the subjects of
common interest and of publick good, were become
familiar ; when the speeches of distinguished characters

LECTURES ON LAW. 291

were considered and compared ; then there would be
observed, between one speaker and another, a differ-
ence, not only with regard to a more agreeable measure
of sound, but to a happier and more easy arrangement of
«entiment«

The attention paid to language is one distinguishing
mark of the progress of society towards its most refined
period: as society improves, influence is acquired by
the means of reasoning and discourse : in proportion as
that influence is felt to increase, in proportion will be the
care bestowed upon the methods of expressing concep-
tions with propriety and elegance. In every polished
community, this study has been considered as highly
important, and has possessed a place in every plan of
liberal education.

In all languages, a question, a promise, a contract,
which are social acts, can be expressed as easily and as
properly, as a judgment, .^hich is a solitary act. The
expression of a judgment has been dignified with a par-
ticular appellation ; it has been denominated a profosi-
Hon* It has been analyzed, with great logical parade,
into its several parts : its elements of subject, predicate,
and copula have been exhibited in ostentatious arrange-
ment: their various modifications have been traced
and examined in laborious and voluminous tracts.
The expression of a question, of a covenant, or of a
promise is as susceptible of analysis as the expression
of a judgment : but this has not been ^tempted ; these
operations of the mind have not been honoured even
with a distinct and appropriate name. Why has so
much pains been, taken, why has so much labour been
bestowed in analyzing, and assigning appropriate names

it9i ttttVUtB 01» lAW.

to the solitary opterations, and the fexprl^seiDii of the to^
litary operations of the understanding ; while fto littlfe
littentioh has been allotted to such of its operatioms as are
feocial i Perha{)s it will be difficult to assign any other
reason than this : in the divisions, which have been
made of the operations of the mind, the social ones
have been omitted; and, conseqjaently, have not been
introduced to notice or regard.

Our ihoral perceptions, as well as the other powers of
bur understanding, indicate, in the strongest manner, our
designation for society. Veracity, and its correspond-
ing quality, confidence, show this, in a very striking
point of View. If we were intended for solitude, those
qualities could have neither iteration taor use. On the
other hand, without those qualities, society could luyt be
supported. Without the latter, the former would be
U8>6kiss : without the former, the latter would be danger-
ous/ Without confidence in promises, for instance, we
Mast, In the greatest part of our conduct, proceed en-
tirely upon die calculations of chance : but diere could
ht 66 confidence in promises, if there was no principle,
froM which their performance might be reasonably
ejected.

Sbm^e may imaging that though this principle did not
^l^j yet huMan affain might, perhaps, be <;arried on
as well ; for that general caution and mutual distrust
iKTOuld be the Necessary result ; and where no confid^ice *
Would be reposed, no breach of it could happen* But,
'Hdt td ^etitioti the uAieasiness and amsiety which would
tinavoiddtbly attend suck a situation, it is not ccmsidered
itMr ttEUcli) ineveryhofur of our lives, we trust to others;
m^ 1uy# dilie«^ if not e&tirely mpttsfsAeMity it WMdd

VtCTVWLZB tm LAW« S9ft

lie to peiiorm the most common as well as the most im*
poitant business of human life^ without such trust. The
Cdnciu^on is, that Ae performance of promises is essen^
tiai to society^

I>ee]dy laid in human nature^ we now behold the
basis of one of the principal pillars of private municipal
law ; diat, which enforces the obligation of promises,
Jigreements, and covenants.

Again ; the moral sense restrains us from harming
the innocent : it teaches us, that the innocent have a right
to be secure from harm. These are two great principles,
which prepare us for society ; and, with regard to them,
the moral sense discovers peculiar inflexibility : it die*
tates, that we should submit lo any distress or danger,
rather than procure our safety and relief by violence
upon an innocent person.

Similar to the restraint, respecting p^ersonal sjiety
^md security, is the restraint^ which the moral sense im-
poses on us, with regard to property. Robbery and
theft «re indulged by no society : from a society.ev^ of
robberS) they are strictly e^duded.

The necessity of die social law, wt& reg«*d to per*
sonal security, is so evictent, as to require no explana-
^tion. Its necessity, w^ith regard to property, will be
^explained and made evident by the following remarks.

Man has a uatunil propensity to store up the meuis of
lues aubsisteftce : this propensity is cssentiid, in order to
incite ITS to provide comfortably for ourselves, and for
those who depend on us. But this propensity would be

294 L£CTUR£S ON LAW.

rendered ineffectual, if we were not secured in the po9«
session of those stores which we collect ; for no one
would toil to accumulate what he could not possess in
security. This security is afforded by the moral sense*
which dictates to all men, that goods collected by the
labour and industry of individuals are their property ;
and that property ought to be inviolable.

We beheld, a little while ago, one of the principal
pillars of civil law founded deeply in our nature : we
now perceive the great principles of criminal law laid
equally deep in the human frame. Violations of pro
perty and of personal security are, as we shall after-
wards show particularly, the objects of that law. To
punish, and, by punishing, to prevent them, is or ought
to be the great end of that law, as shall also be particu*
larly shown.

That we are fitted and intended for society, and that
society is fitted and intended for us, will become evident
by considering our passions and affections, as well as by
considering our moral perceptions, and the other opera-
tions of our understandings. We have all the emotions*
which are necessary in order that society may be formed
and maintained : we have tenderness for the fair sex : we-
have affection for our children, for our parents, and for
our other relations^: we have attachment to our friends :
we have a regard for reputation and esteem : we possess
gratitude and compassion : we enjoy pleasure in the
happiness of others, especially when we have beoa instru-
mental in procuring it : we entertain for our country an
animated and vigorous zeal: we feel delight in the
agreeable conception of the improvement and happiness
of mankind.

LECTURES ON LAW. 295

The centre mov'd, a circle str^ght succeeds,
Another still, and still another spreads.
Friend, parent, neighbour first it^ill embrace,
His country next, and next all human race ;
Wide and more wide, th' overflowings of the mind
Take ev'ry creature in, of ev*ry kind ;
Earth smiles around, with boundless bounty blest,
Andheav*n beholds its image in his breast^<^

How naturally, and sometimes how strongly, are our
passions communicated from one to another, without
even the least knowledge of the cause, by which they
were originally produced ! They are conveyed by aspect:
the very countenance is infectious : the emotion flies from
face to face : it is no sooner seen than experienced : like
the electrick shock, it is felt instantaneously by a whole
multitude ; though, perhaps, only one of them knows
from whence it proceeds. Such is the force of society
in the passions.

This sympathy is an important quality of many of our
passions : in particular, it invites and produces a commu-
nication of joys and sorrows, hopes and fears. Spirits, the
most generous and the most susceptible of strong impres«
sions, are the most social and combining. They delight
most to move in concert ; and feel, in the strongest man-
ner, the force of the confederating charm.

The social powers and dispositions of our minds dis-
cover themselves in the earliest periods^ of life. So soon
as a child can speak, he can ask, and he can answer a
questibn: before he can speak, he shows signs of love,
of resentment, and of other affections necessarily pointed
to society. He is capable of social intercourse long

4 Pope's Ess. on Man. Ep. 4. r. 365.

S96 xiCTURBS on law.

before he is capable of reasoning^. . We behold this
charming intercourse between his mother and him, be-
\ fore he is a year old. He can, by signS) ask and refuse,

threaten and supplicate. In danger, he clings to his
mother— for I wiU not, on this occasion, distinguish
between the mother and the nurse*^— he enters into her
joy and grief, is happy in her caresses, and is unhi^py in
her displeasure.

As sociability attends us in our infancy ; she continues
to be our companion through all the variegated scenes of
our riper years. By an irresistible charm, she insinuates
herself into the hearts of every rank and dass of men,
and mixes in all the various modes and arrangements of
human life. Let us suppose a man of so morose and
acrimonious a disposition, as to shun, like Timon of
Athens, all communication with his species ; even such a
misanthropist would wish for at least one associate, into
whose bosom he might discharge the rancour and viru-
lence of his own heart.

Society is necessary as well as natural to us. To
support life, to satisfy our natural appetites, to obtain
those agreeable enjoyments of which our nature is sus«
ceptible, many external things are indispensable. In
order tq live with any degree of comfort, we must have
food, clothing, habitations, furniture, and utensils of
some sort. These cannot be procured without much
art and labour ; nor without the friendly assistance of our
fellows in society.

Let us suppose a man of full strength, and well
instructed in all our arts of life, to be reduced suddenly
to solitude, even in one of ^ b^frt; cf Mitift foxd climates :

LECTURES OK LAW. 297

«

could he procure the grateful conveniences of 'life ? It
will not be pretended., Could he procure even its simple
necessaries? In an ingenious and excellent romance, we
are told this has been done. But it will be remembered,
that the foundation of Robinson Cruspe's future subsist-
ence, and of all the comforts which he afterwards pro-
^vided apd collected, was laid in the useful instruments
and machines, which he saved from his shipwreck.
These were the productions of society.

X Could one, uninstructed in our arts of life, and unfur-
nished with the productions of society, subsist in soli-
tude, though he were of full age, and possessed of health
and strength i the probabilities would run strong against
him.

Could one subsist in solitude during the weak, un-
informed, and inexperienced period of his infkncy?
This he could not do, unless, like another Romulus
and Remus, he owed his subsistence to the social aid of
the wolves.

But let us, for a moment, suppose, that food,- raiment,
and shelter were supplied even by a miracle; a solitary
life must be continually harassed by dangers and fears.
Suppose those dangers and fears to be removed ; could
he find employment for the most excellent j)owers and
instincts of his mind ? Could he indulge affection or
social joy ? could he communicate, or could he receive
social pleasure or social regard ? Dispositions very dif-
ferent indeed-^sour discontentment, sullen melancholy,
Usdess languor-— must prey upon his soul.

VOX. u <t q

■s

i

29S LECTURES ON LAW.

The reciprocal assistance of those, who compose st •
single family, may procure many of the necessaries of
life ; and may diminish its dangers. In this state som^
room will be afforded for social enjoyments, and for the
finer operations of the mind. Still greater pleasures
and advantages would be obtained by the union of a
few families in the same neighbourhood. They would
undertake and execute laborious works for the common
good of all; and social emotions would operate in a less
contracted circuit. Associations, still larger, will en-
large the sphere of pleasure and enjoyment ; and will
furnish more diversified and delightful exercise to our
powers of every kind. Knowledge is increased : inven-
tions are discovered: experience improves them: and
the inventions, with their improvements, are spread over
the whole community. Designs of durable and exten-
sive advantage are boldly fornied, a[nd vigorously car-
ried into effect. The social and benevolent affections
range in an ample sphere i and attain an eminent degree
of strength and refinement.

On what does our security— on what do our enjoy-
ments depend ? On our mutual services and sympathe-
tick pleasures. Other animals have strength or speed
sufficient for their preservation and defence. Man is,
in all states, encompassed with weakness and dangers :
but the j^trength and safety, which he wants by himself,
he finds, when he is united with his equals. Nature
has endowed him with a principle, which gives him
force and superiority, where otherwise he would be help-
less and inferiour. By sociability, they, who separately
could make no effectual resistance, conquer and tame the
various kinds of the brute creation. Society is the cause,
that, not satisfied with the element on which he was

LECTURES ON LAW* 299

bom, man extends his dominion over the sea. Society
supplies him with remedies in his diseases, with com*
fort in his aiBiction^, and with assistance in his old age.
Take away society, and you destroy the basis, on
which the preservation and happiness of human life are
laid.

" There is nothing more certain," says Cicero,^ "than
the excellent maxim of Plato— that we are not intended
solely for ourselves ; but that our friends and our coun«
try claim a portion of our birth. Since, according to
the doctrine of the stoicks, the productions of the earth
are designed for men, and men are designed for the
' mutual aid of one another ; we should certainly pursue
- the design of Nature, and promote her benign inten-
tion, by contributing our proportion to the general
interest, by mutually performing and receiving good
'offices, and by emi^oying our care, our industry, and
V even our fortune, in order to strengthen the love and
friendship, which should always predominate in human
society.

In point of dignity, the social operations and emotions
. of the mind rise to a most respectable height. The
excellency of man is chiefly discerned in the great im-
provements, of which he is susceptible in society : these,
by perseverance and vigour, may be carried on progres-
sively to degrees higher and higher, above any limits
which we can now assign.

Our social affections and operations acquire still great-
er importance, in another point of view : they promote

« Beoff.l.l,cr.N

dOO LEGTUMK ON LAW.

and are necessary to bur happiness. ^ If we could sup-
pose ours^ Ives," says Cicero, ' who knew so well how to
illustrate law by philosophy— >^^ if we could suppose our-
selves tnmsportcfd by some divinity into a solitude,
replete with' all the delicacies which the heart of man
could desire, but excluded, at the same time, from everjr
possible intercourse with our kind, there is not a person
in the world of so unsocial and savage a temper, as to
be capable, in these forlorn circumstances, of relishing
any enjoyment.'^ " Nothing," continues he, "is more true,
than what the philosopher Archytas is reported to have
said : If a man were to be carried up into heaven, and
see the beauties of universal nature displayed before
him, he would receive but little pleasUre from the won-
derful scenes, unless there was some person, to whom
he could relate the glories, which he had 'viewed* Hu-
man nature is so constituted, as to be incapable of soli,
tary satisfactions. Man, like tliose plants which are
formed to embrace others, is led, by an instinctive impulse,
to recline on those of his own kind."

Man, like the gen'rous vinf!, supported lives ;

The strength he gams is from th' embrace he gives. 8

The observations, which we make in common life,
vouch the justness of these sentiments. We see those
persons possess the greatest share of happiness, who have
about them many objects of love and endearment. To the
want of these objects, may be ascribed the moroseness
of monks, and of those who, without entering into any
religious order, lead the lives of monks*

^ De Amic. 33. « Pope's Ess. on Man. £p. 3. v. 311.

LECTURES ON LAW. dOl

Of the same nature with the indulgence of domestick
affections, and equally refreshing to the spirit, is the
pleasure, which flows from acts of beneficence, either
in bestowing pecuniary favours, or in imparting, to
<those who want it, the benefit of our advice, or the
assistance of our professional skill. The last considera^
tion is urged, with peculiar propriety, by the professor
<of law. Innumerable instances occur, in whiph gentler
ixien of the bar, who possess abilities and character, can
bestow what may be called favours, even on those, who
are both able and willing to pay well for their services.
When a client has an important business depending,
entire confidence in the integrity and talents of his coun-
sel diffuses over his mind a degree of composure and se^
rc^nity, against which a fee, weighed in the balance,
would be found wanting. I'his is particularly the case,
wh^n the life or the reputation of the client is at stake.

The foregoing observations may also be applied to
publick services done for the state, by assisting her in
her councils, or by defending or prosecuting her inter-
ests. Even if no suitable return, as it sometimes hap*
pens, should te received from the state for such services;
yet a mind, nurtured to the refined and enlarged exercise
of the social passion, will find no trivial pleasure in the
reflection that it has performed them, and that those, for
whom they were performed, enjoy the advantages re-
sulting from them. Virtue, in such an instance, will
prove herself her own reward. A man, whose soul yi- .
brates in unison with the benevolent affections, will al-
ways find within him an encouragement, and a compen-
sation too, for discharging his duty — an encouragement
and a compe^nsafion, of whiqh ingratitude itself cannot
deprive him.

302 LECTURES OK LAW.

I will not a{^al to vanity, and ask, if any thing caa
be more flattering, than to obtain the praises and acda-
mations of others. But I will appeal to conscious
rectitude, and ask, whether any thing can be more sa-
tisfactory, than to deserve their regard and esteem*

The possession of science is always attended with
pleasure : but science, believe me, acquires an increased
relish, when we have an opportunity of pouring it into
the bosoms of others. We receive a redoubled satis-
faction from the agreeable, though, perhaps, the flatter-
ing opinion, that we communicate entertainment and in-
struction ; and from the opinion, better founded, that
even weak attempts to communicate entertainment and
instruction are received with reflected social emotions.

» •»

What can be more productive of happiness than ev€n
those wants, which are the foundations of so many bles-
sings — ^love and friendship, q^enerosity and reliance,
kindness and gratitude? The^ .^ 'Hjj^ations even of sense
lose their relish, if not heightened: by the " spes mutui
credula animi" — corresponding social emotions.

, t*» ' ■

Our esteem of others, too, arisin^JFrom the approba-
tion of their conduct, is a most pleasing affection. The
contemplation of a great and good character wai ms the
heart, and invigorates the whole frame.

The wisest and most benign constitution of a rational
and moral system is that, in which the degree of private
affection, most useful to the individual, is, at the same
time, consistent with the greatest interest of the system ;
and in which the degree of social affection, most useful
to the system, is, at the same time, productive of the

LECTURES ON LAW. 303

{greatest happiness to the individual. Thus it is in the
system of society. In that system, he who acts on such
principles, and is governed by such affections, as sever
him from the common good and publick interest, works,
in reality, towards his own misery: while he, on the
other hand, who operates for the good of the whole, as
is by nature and by nature's God appointed him, pursues,
in truth, and at the same time, his own felicity.

Regulated by this standard, extensive, unerring, and
sublime, self-love and social are the same.

To a state of society, then, we are invited from every
quarter. It is natural ; it is necessary ; it is pleasing ;
it is profitable to us. The result of all is, that for a
state of society we are designated by Him, who is all-
wise and all-good. , '

Society may be distinc:^ -^'shed into two kinds, natural
and civil. This dist' ou has not been marked with
the accuracy, which it well merits. Indeed some wri-
ters have given little or no attention to the latter kind;
others have expressly denied it, and said, that there can
be no civil society without civil government. But this
is certainly not the case. A state of civil society must
have existed, and such a state, in all our reasonings on
this subject, must be supposed, before civil government
Could be regularly formed and established. Nay, 'tis
for the security and improvement of such a state, that
the adventitious one of civil government has been insti-
tuted. To civil society, indeed, withput including in its
description the idea of civil government, the name of
state may be assigned, by way of excellence. It is in
this sense that Cicero seems to use it, in the following

304 LECrURES ON LAW.

beautiful passage* ^^ Nothing, which is exhibited on our
g^obe, is more acceptable to that divinity, which governs
the whole universe, than those communities and assem-
blages of men, which, lawfully associated, — -jure sociiiti
denominated states." ^

Hoiir often has the end been sacrificed to the means I
Government was instituted for the happiness of society :
how often has the happiness of society been offered as a
victim to the idol of government ! But this is not agree-
able to the true order of things : it is not consistent witii
the orthodox political creed. Let government — ^let ev^i
the constitution be, as they ought to be, the handmaids ;
let them not be, for they ought not to be, the mistresses
of the state. \

\

A state may be described — vl complete body of free
persons, united together for their common benefit, to
enjoy peaceably what is their own, and to do justice to
others. It is an anificial person : it has its affairs and ks
interests : it has its rules ;' it has its obligations ; and it
has its righjts. It may acquire property, distinct from
that of its members : it may incur debts, to be dischar-
ged out of the publick stock, not out of the private for-
tunes of individuals : it may be bound by contracts, and
for damages arising quasi ex contractu.

In order to constitute a state, it is indispensably ne*
cessary, that the wills and the power of all the tniembers
be united iu such a manner, that they shall never act nor
desire but one antTthe same thing, in whatever relates to
the end, for which the society is established. It is from

^ SoiDD. Sdp. c. SL

LHCTI7RES ON LAW. 305

this UBion of wills and of strength, that the state of
body politick resiilts* The only rational and natural
method, therefore, of constituting a civil society, is by
the convention or consent of the members, who compose
it. For by a civil society we properly understand, thf
voluntary union of persons in the same end, and in the
same mean's requisite to obtain that end. This union is
a benefit, not a sacrifice : civil is an addition to natural
order.

This union may rationally be supposed to be formed
in the following manner: if a number of people, who
had hitherto lived independent of each other, wished to
form a civil society, it would be necessary to enter into
an engagement to associate together in one body, and to
regulate, with one common consent, whatever regards
their preservation, their security, their improvement,
their happiness.

In the social compact, each individual engages with
the whole collectively, and the whole collectively en-
gage with each individual. These engagements are ob«
4igatory, because they are mutual. The individuals who
ure not parties to them, are not ibaembers of the society.

. Smaller societies may be. formed within a state by a
part of its members. These societies also are deemed
to be moral persons ; but not in a state of natural liberty :
their actions are cognizable by the superiour Pfyj^b* of
the state, and are regulated by its laws* To ttfse so-
^etics die name of corporations is generally appro-
priated, diough somewhat in^roperly ; for the term, is
strictly applieable to supreme as well as to inferiour
bodies politick.

VOL. I. R r
LECTURES OM LAW.

The foregoin|j^ account of the formation of civU soete^
ty, which refers it to original engagements; and conse-
quently resolves the duty of submission to the laws of
the society, into the universal obligation of fidelity in the
performance of promises, is warmly attacked by a sensibly
and ingenious writer. * He represents it, as founded on a
supposition, false in fact; as insufficient, if it was true,
for the purposes, for which it is produced ; and as lead*
ing to dangerous consequences. He acknowledges, how-
ever, that, in the United States, transactions have
happened, which bear the nearest resemblance to this
political idea, of any, of which history has preserved the
account or the memory. This subject has already received
some ; it will afterwards receive more attention and exa-
mination. At present, it is sufficient, and it is proper,
to intimate to you the point of discussion ; for it is a very
important one in the science of government.

In civil society, previously to the institution of civil
government, all men are equal. Of one blood all nations
are made ; from one source the whole human race has
sprung.

When we say, that all men are equal ; we mean not
to apply this equality to their virtues, their talents, their
dispositions, or their acquirements. In all these respects,
there is, and it is fit for the great purposes of sociiety
that there should be, great inequality among men. In
theropral and political as well as in the natural woiid,
diverlfty fofms an important part of beauty ; and as of
beauty, so of utility likewise. That social happiness,
which arises from the friendly intercourse of good offices.

i 3. Paley 140.

LKCTU&ES ON LAW. 307

could not be enjoyed, unless men were so framed and so
disposed, as mutually to afford and to stand in need of
service and assistance. Hence the necessity not only of
great variety, but even of great inequality in the talents
of men, bodily as well as mental. Society supposes
mutual dependence : mutual dependence supposes mutual
wants : all the social exercises and enjoyments may be
xeduced to two heads — ^that of giving, and that of re*
ceiving : but these imply different aptitudes to give and
to receive.

Many are the degrees, many are the varieties of human
genius, human dispositions, and human characters. One
man has a turn for mechanicks ; another, for architecture ;
one paints ; a second makes poems : this excels in the
arts of a military ; the other, in those of civil life. To
account for these varieties of taste and character, is not
easy ; Is, perhaps, impossible. But though their ejficient
cause it may be difficult to explain ; their final cause,
that is, the intention of Providence in appointing them,
we can see and admire. These varieties of taste and '
character induce different persons to choose different
professions and employments in life : these varieties
render mankind mutually beneficial to each other, and
prevent too violent oppositions of interest in the same
pursuit. Hence we enjoy a variety of conveniences;
hence the numerous arts and sciences have been invented
and improved; hence the sources of commerce and
friendly intercourse between different nations have been
opened ; hence the circulation of truth has been quick-
ened and promoted ; hence the operations of social virtue
iiave been multiplied and enlarged.. .

SOS LSCTUHES ON XA^»

Heayeo, forming each on other to dcfjoid,

Bids each on cither for asuftance call,

Till one man's weakness grows the strength of all*

Wants, frailties, passions closer still ally

The common interest, or endear the tie :

To these we owe true friendship, love sincere,

Each home-felt joy, that life inherits here, i

How insipidly uniform would human life and fioammfe
be, without the beautiful variety of colours, reflected upoh
them by dilFerent tastes, different tempers, and dtfferem
pharacters !

But however great the variety and inequality of men
may be with regard to virtue, talents, taste, and acquire-
ments; there is still one aspect, in which' all men io
society, previous to civil government, are equal. Witli
regard to all, there is an equality in rights and in dbtiga-
tions ; there is diat ^^ jus aequum,'' that equal law, in
which the Romans placed true freedom. The natural
rights and duties of man belong equally to all* Each
Forms a part of that great system, whose greatest interest
mid happiness are intended by all the laws of God and
nature. These laws prohibit the wisest and the most pow-
erful from inflicting misery on the meanest and most
ignorant ; and from depriving them of their rights or just
acquisitions. By these laws, rights, natural or acquired,
are con^rmed, in the same manner, to all ; to the weak
and artless, their ismall acquisitions, as well as to the
strong and artful, their large ones, if much labour
employed entitles the active to great possessions, die
indolent have a right, equally sacred, to the litde
sions, which they occupy and impiove.

^ Pope. Ess. Man. Ep.3. V. 34a

^ I

LECTURES OK LAW* ^09

As in civil society, previous to civil government, all
men are equal ; so, in the same «tate, all men are free*
fc such a state, no one can claim, in preference to
Imother, superiour right : in the same state, no one can

claim over another superiour authority.

«

Nature has implanted in man the desire of his own
lia{^ines8 ; she has inspired him with many tender affec-
tions towards others, especially in the near relations of
life ; she has endowed him widi intellectual and with
active powers ; she has furnished him with a natural
impulse to exercise his powers for his own happiness,
wid the happiness of those, for whom he entet^ns such
tender affections* If all this be true, the undeniable
consequence is, that he has a right to exert those powers
ibr the accomjdishment of those purposes, in such a
-manner, and upon such objects, as bis ioqlination and
judgment shall direct; provided he does no injury to
others ; and provided more publick interests, do not de«
Biand his labours. This right is natural liberty. Every
man hs^ a sense of this right. Every man has a sense
of the improprie^ of restraining or interrupting it.
Those who judge wisely, will use this liberty virtuously
and honourably : those, who are less wise, will employ
it in meaner pursuits : others, again, may, perhaps, in-
dulge it m what may be justly censured as vicipus and
dishonourable. Yet, with regard even to these last,
while they are not injurious to others ; and while no
human institution has placed them under tlie control of
magistrates or laws, die sense of liberty is so strong, and
its loss is so deeply resented, that, upon the whole, more
unhappiness would result from depriving them of their
liberty on account of their imprudence, than could be
reasonably apprehended from the imprudent use of their
liberty.
LECTURES O^XiAW.

The right of natural liberty is sug|pested to us not
only by the selfish parts of our constitution, but l^'our
generous affections ; and especisdly by our mdral sensed
which intimates to. us, that in our voluntary actioos' csn-
sist our dignity and perfection.

The laws of nature are the measure and the rule ; they
ascertain the limits and the extent of natural liberty.

In society, when the sentiments of the members are
not unanimous, the voice of the majority must be deem^
ed the will of the whole. That the majority, by any
vote, should bind not only themselves, but those also
who dissent from that vote, seems, at first, to be incon-
sistent with the well knowp rules-^-that all men* are
naturally equal; and that all' men are naturally free.
From these rules, it may be alleged, that no one can be
bound by the act of an^pther, without his own consent.
But it is to be remembered, that society is constituted
for a certain purpose ; and that each member of it con«
sents that this purpose shall be carried on ; and, conse-
quently, that every thing necessary for carrying it on
shall be done. Now a number of persons can jointly do
business only in three ways-*— by the decision of the
whole, by the decision of the majority, or by the deci-
sion of the minority. The first case is not here supposed,
nor is there occasion to make a. question concerning it.
The only remaining questicm, then^ which can be pro-
posed, is, which is most reasonable and equitable— -that
the minority should bind the majority-— or that the ma-
jority should bind the minority ? The latter, certainly*
It is most reasonable; because it is not so probable, that
a greater number, as that a smaller nun&ber, concurring
in judgment, should be mistaken. It is most equitable;

LECTITRES ON LAW. 311

because the grei^er number arie presumed, to have an
interest in the society proportioned to that number* Be-
sides ; though, in the case supposed, the minority are
bound without their immediate consent ; they are bound
by their consent, originally given to the establishment of
the society, for the purposes which it was intended to
accomplish. For it has been already observed, that
those, who enter not into the original engagement form-
ing the socie^, are not to be considered as members :
all the members, therefore, must have originally given
their consent.

The rule, which we have mentioned, may be altered
and modified by positive institution. In some cases, the .
consent of a number larger than a mere majority: in
others, even unanimity may be required.

This is the proper place for considering a question of
very considerable importance in civil society, and con-
cerning which there has been much diversity in the sen-
timents of writers, and in the laws and practice of states:
has a state a right to prohibit the emigration of its
members? may a citizen dissolve the connexion between
him and his country ?

On the principles of the compact of association, which
I have already stated, there seems to be but litde doubt
that one article of it may be, that each individual binds
himself indissolubly to the society, while the society
performs, on its part, the stipulated conditions. This
engagement each individual may make for himself: ^ but

^ Coimecticat was originally settled by emigrants £rom the neigh-
bourhood of Bsston. They applied to the general court of Maasa-

312 LECTURES OK LAW.

can he make it for his children and" his posterity? xuast
they be and continue bound by the act of their fiather and
ancestor ?

The notion of natural, per|>etaal^ and unalienable;
allegiance from the citizen to the society, or to the head
of the society, of which he was bom a member, has^ by
some writers and in some countries, been carried very
far indeed : and their practice has been equally rigorous
with^their principles. The well known maxim, which
the writers upon the law of England have adopted and
applied to this case is,^ ^^ Nemo potest exuere patriam.'*
It is not, therefore, as is hcdden by that law, in the power
of any private subject to shake off his allegiance, and
to transfer it-to a foreign prince. Nor is it in the power
of any foreign prince, by naturalizing or employiag a
subject of Great Britain, to dissolve the bond of allegiance
between that subject and the crown. Hence it has been
adjudged, that a cartel for the exchange or ransom of
prisoners of war cannot extend to the case of a subject
bom, though clothed with a. commission £N>m the party
to the cartel. ^ The reason assigned is, that by the laws
of all nations, subjects taken in arms against their law*
ful prince are not considered as. prisoners of war, but
as rebels ; and are liable to the punishments ordinarily
inflicted on rebels. "^ This doctrine was, so late as the

cbnsaetUlcKr permission to go in questofnew advealures : and couift
not be satisfied, until they had obtained the leave of the court For
it was the general sense, as we are assured, that the inhabitants
were all mutually bound to one another by the oath of a freeman,
as well as the origmal compact ; so as not to be at liberty to aepa*
rata without the consent of the whole. ChaL 286.

>F08t.2a4. ^MtitA.

L£CTUR£S ON LAW* 313

y^ar one thousaad seven hundred and forty seven, applied
tp the case of a native of Great Britain, who had received
his education in France from his early infai^cy ; and who
had spent his riper years in a profitable employment
in that kingdom, where all his hopes were centred, a

The reasons in favour of the position, that a citizen
cannot dissolve the political connexion between him and
his country, may be stated in the following manner. Eve-
ry citizen, as soon as he is bom, is under the protection
of the state, and is entitled to all the advantages arising
from that protection : he, therefore, owes obedience to
that power, from which the protection, which he enjoys,
is derived. But while he Qontinues in infancy and non-
age, he cannot perform the duties of obedience. The
performance of them must be respited, till he arrive at
the years of discretion and maturity. When he arrives
at those years, he owes obedience, not only for the pro-
tection, which he t^en enjoys, but also for that, which,
from his birth, he has enjoyed. Obedience now becomes
a duty founded upon principles of gratitude, as well aa
upon principles of interest : • it becomes a debt, which
nothing but the performance of the duties of citizenship,
during a whole life, will discharge. °

But, notwithstanding this train of thought and rea-
soning, there are certainly cases, in which a citizen has
an unquestionable right to renounce his country, and
go in quest of a settlement in some other part of the world.
One of these cases is, when, in his own country, he
cannot procure a subsistence. Another is, when the
society neglects to fulfil its obligations to the citizen.

n Fost^ 59. o 2i P. Wms. 123. 124.

VOL. I. s s

Si4 1ECT0RS;S ON LAW.

A diird 18, when the society would etldbiisli kiw$, on
things, to which the original social compact cannot oblige
the citizen to submit, f

In answer to the inferences drawn from piinciides tt
gratitude, it may be observed, that eveiy man bei^g
bom free, a native citizen, when he arrives at the iqgejaf
discretion, may examine whetiier it be convenient for
him to join in the socie^, for which he was destined by
his birth. If, on exatnination, he finds, that tt will it
more advantageous to him to remove into another cons-
try, he has a right to go, making to that which he leaves
a proper return for what it has done in his favour, and
preserving for it, as far as"" it shall be consistent wkh
the engagements, which his new situation and vsm*
nexions may require, tlie sentiments of respect and
attachment.

The sentiments of Mr. Locke on d&is subjtet go
much further. ** *Tis plain," says he, ^ •• by the law of
right reason, that a child is bom a subject of no coun-
try or govemment. He is under his father's tiiitieii
and authority, till he eomes to the age of discretion;
and then he is a freemsm, at liberty What government he
will put himself under ; what body politick he wffl usttie
himself to.'*

u

O glorious regulations!'' says Cicero,*" ** originally
established for us by our ancestors of Roman name;
that no ^one of us should be obliged to belong to moz^
than one society, since a dissimilitude of societies must

p Vat. 96.b.l.s. 223- 225. % On Chr. Gov. s. 118
r PraBalb.c.13.

JtftCTUilES ON LAW. * 315

produef a proportioaed variety of lawfli-; that no one,
QOBtnuy to his wdination, should be deprived of his
right of citizensl^ip ; s^id that no one, contrary tp his in-
clinations, should be obliged to continue 'm that rela*
tion. The power of ret^niog and of renouncing our
Ibights pf cilizeqshj^, is the wist stable foundation of
mxt ISierties."

In. the digest of the flpn^tan ]|aw, * it i^ laid dovn as a
rule, that every o^ 19 at liberty to choose the state, of
which he wishes to be a member. ,

• |!iHle^4) excepting ii\ soix^^ vezy particular cases, evexy
cmo ought to be m liberty to leave the state. This gene-
1^ liberty is not only just, b^t vfmy be productive of
4n«€h flp»ierou8 ap^tl^n amopg stiites, and of exten«
sive qidvantages tQ their pitizen?. Those states, which
:^9ns|ge their affairs best, will pffer the strongest induce-
VlMls to their own citizens to remain, and to others to
incorporate among them. On the otherhand, it is both
Inhuman and unjust to convert the state into a prison for
its citizens, by preventing them from leaving it on a pro-
spect of ndvantiige to themselves. True it is, that they
-ought to make compensation for s^ny advantages, which
Aeyhave derived fron^ the state at its expense: but
equally true it 19, that this compensation is generally
made, by their having contributed annually, daring their
past residence, towards the publick revenue, by paying
taxes on property, as all men, even minors, do ; and by
consuming goqd^, on which ii^posts or dutie^ have been
Jevied*

• ^.).49.t.l5.

316 LECTTTRSS OK LAW*

Emigration may arise from various causes. It may
be occasioned by the population of a country. In this
case, great numbers may be constantly leaving the state^
and yet the state may be increasing in population. It
has been suggested by some writers, that the right of
exposing children has been one cause of the populous-
ness of China. Surely the prospect that they will be
comfortably .provided for, if not in their own, yet in
another country, must be a much mor^ powerful, as
well as more humane incentive to marriages.

Insecurity, hardships, oppression may be the causes
of emigration. A nation whose inhabitants are in a pre.
dicament so disagreeable, may be in declining circum-
stances ; but those circumstances, indicating a decline,
are not the effects of emigration ; they are the eflfects of
the evils and calamities which occasion it. Two things,
which are commonly considered as cause and effect, are
often no more than two collateral effects of the same
cause.

Independently, therefore, of the question of right,
there can be but few cases, in which emigration could
be prohibited on the sound principles of policy. Emi-
gration, it is true, may be a s3rmptom of languor and
decay; but it may also be an evidence and a conse-
quence of the overflowing vigour and prosperity of the
state.

Permit me to suggest a still further reason*— 4o me it
appears a strong one-— in favour of unrestrained emigra-
tion. In a free state, the consent of every citizen to its
institution and government ought to be evinc,ed either
by express declarations, or by the strongest and justest

LECTURES ON LAW. 317

presumptions. When a state is formed, the residence
of a citizen is presumed a sufficient evidence of his as-
sent and acquiescence in its institutions : to reside in any
country is universally deemed a submission to its authority.
But that these presumptions may be fairly drawn, we must
be understood as speaking of a state, from which the
citizens have liberty to depart with their effects at plea-
sure. Where this liberty is not enjoyed, the considera-
tions of family, of property, and many other considera-
tions that are without a name, may detain a man, much
against his inclination, in a country, iii which he finds
himself trammelled. In such case, his residence is no
reasonable evidence of his consent to the formation, the
constitution, the government, or the laws of the state.

Upon the whole it appears, that the right of emigra-
tion is a rights advantageous to the citizen, and gene-
rally useful even to the state. It may, however, in the
fundamental laws, be reduced to a certainty. The citi-
zens of Neufchatel in Switzerland may quit the country,
and carry off their effects, in whatever manner they
please, without paying any duties. ' By the constitution
of Pennsylvania,^ it is declared "that emigration from
the state shall not be prohibited."

These remarks on the rights and principles of emi-
gration, prepare the way for remarks, more important,
oa the principles and rights of colonization, which will
form the subject of inquiry in a future part of our lectures.

* Vat. 96. b. 1. s. 225. » Art. 9. s. 25.

CHAPTER VIIL

OF MAN) AS A MEMBER O? A GONFEDERAflOK.

A, NUMBER of states or societies may associate or
confederate together for their mutual security and advaa^
tage. In some respects^ such confederacies are to be
considered as forming only one nation : in other respects^
they are to be considered as still retaining their separata
political capacities, characters, rights, and powers. Asso*-
ciations of this kind have made their appearance but
seldom on the great theatre of human affairs ; and wb&i
they have appeared, the part they have acted has gene-
rally been but a short one ; and even that short part has,
in most instances, been defaced, or mutilated, or rendered
obscure by the effect of ail-corroding time. The appear-
ance, however, of personages, so peculiarly interesting to
the United States, well deserves to be marked, to be
traced, to be distinguished, with th^ most sedulous pre-
cision and exactness.

3S0 LECTURES ON LAW.

The first association of this kind, of which we have
any information from history, is that of the Amphyc-
tionick Council, so called from Amphyction, by whom it
was instituted. In the time of this wise and patriotick
prince, the condition of Greece demanded his most
serious and deep reflection. That country was divided
into a great number of small independent sovereignties.
That division was likely to occasion controversies, and
produce ruinous intestine wars. Weakness and confu-
sion, the inseparable concomitants of such wars, might
invit^ the attacks of the barbarous nations, by whom
Greece was surrounded. Her destruction, total and
irretrievable, might prove the necessary consequence.

To prevent calamities, so probable and so great,
Amphyction meditated and formed the plan of uniting
' all the different states of Greece in one common bond, as
well as in one common interest ; that, availing themselves
of the advantages and strength, acquired by this union,
they might labour together in xnaintaining their internal
peace and security, and in rendering themselves respect-
able, and, if necessary, formidable to the neighbouring
nations. With this view, and on these principles, he
formed a league among twelve Grecian cities, whose
deputies were to meet twice a year at Thermopyla, where
Amphyction reigned. ^ > Difference of times and circum-
stances produced many successive alterations in this
assembly ; but the general intention and invariable object
of all its modellers and directers was, to form a complete
representation of all Greece. ^

* *

a 2. Gog. Or. Laws* 26. «> LeL L. P. Pre! 43.

tECTURES ON LAW* 3S1

■

Each city sent two deputies ; and had, of consequence,
two vot^s in their deliberations, without distinction or
preeminence.

We should consider the Council of the Amphyctions
as the Congress of the United States of Greece. The
delegates, who composed that august assembly, repre-
sented the ' body of the nation ; and were invested with
full power to deliberate and resolve upon whatever
appeared to them to be most conducive to the publick
prosperity. * Besides those laws, by which each parti-
cular city was governed, others were enacted hy the
Council of Amphyctions, of general fol*ce and obligation
on all. Those were called Amphyctionick laws. All
contests between the Grecian states and cities came under
die particular cognizance of the Amphyctions* To their
tribunal, an appeal also lay in all private controversies, a
To the same tribunal, individuals were amenable for their
publick crimes. ^ Their authority extended to the raising
of forces, and to compel the obstinate to submit to the
execution of their decrees. The three religious wars,
undertaken by the order of the Amphyctions, are striking
instances of the extent of their power. ^.

•

Among the Grecians, it was esteemed a high honour
to have a right to send delegates to this kind of states-
general. The least mark of infidelity to their country
was sufficient to prevent their admission, or to procure
their expulsion. The Lacedemonians, however impor«

c 2, G05. Or. Laws. 77, ^ Lei. L. P. PreL 39. 53.

*■ LeL Dem. Int. to oration de conma.

ft

f 2. Gog. Or. I#ws. 37.
VOL. 1. ^ T t

322 LECTU&BS ON 'LA.W,

taut, a&d the Phocians were, for some time, excluded ;
and could not obtain a readmission, till, by unequivocal
proofs of service and attachment to the publick, they
had made reparation for the fault, which they had
committed*

The effects, produced by the Council of the Amphyc-
ttons, fully answered the most sanguine expectations of
the prince, by whom it was instituted. From the moment
of its establishment, the interests of their country became
the common concern of all the people of Greece. The
different states, of which the union was composed, formed
only one and the Same republick : and this union it was,
which made the Greeks so formidable afterwards to the
barbarians. ^ To the Amphyctions we may ascribe the
salvation of Greece from the invasion of Xerxes. It was
by means of this association, that she performed such
wonderful actions, and supported, for so long a time, the
character of the pride of nations.

Amphyction ought to be esteemed one of the greatest
men, that Greece ever produced ; and the establishment
of the Council of the Amphyctions should be admired, as
a great master-piece in human politipks.

While the generous principles, on which the Council
of the Amphyctions was formed, continued to preserve
their due vigour, that illustrious bq^y was respectable,
august, and powerful. But when Greece herself began
to degenerate, her representative body was contaminated
with the general corruption. The decline of this coun-
cil we may date particularly from the time, when Philip

s 2. Gog. Or. Laws. 38.

LECTURES ON LAW. 323

t>f Macedon, artful and intriguing, practised on its venal
members by bribes, and succeeded in having his kingdom
annexed to the Hellenick Body. It continued, however,
for ages after the destruction of Grecian liberty, to
assemble, and to exercise some remains of its authority. ^

The next confederacy, which clsums our attention, is
that of the Lycians. In this republick, the just rights of
suflfrage were observed with great accuracy. It was an
associfition of twenty three towns. These were arranged
into three classes, in proportion to their strength. In the
first class, six states were included. The numbers of
which the second and third classes were composed, aire
uncertain. Every city had its own magistrates and go-
vernment, and managed its own internal affairs. But all
uniting together, formed only one common republick,
and had one common council. In that council, they
deliberated and resolved concerning war, concerning
peace, concerning alliances ; in a word, concerning the
general Interests and welfare of the Lycians. The
towns of the first class had'three votes ; the towns of the
second class had two votes ; and the towns of the third
class had one vote, in the common council. In the same
proportion, they contributed to the publick expenses, and
appointed the publick magistrates of the union.

/

This republick was celebrated for its moderation and
justice. Respected and unimpaired, it continued till the
Romans, by their extending conquests, overpowered
every thing in Asia.

h Lcl. L. P. Prel. S&. 57.

d34 LECTURES ON LAw;.

Concernnig the Lycians, one observation- is vtaAe^
which merits our particular notice. They obterved
customs more than written laws. *

^' WasI to give," says the celebrated Montesquieuyj
^Hhe model of an excellent confederate republick, I
would select that of Lycia." The happy experience,
however, of the United States, has evinced, that, even
upon that model, immense improvements have been
made.

The Acluean League comes now in review before us.
The cities composing it retained, like those of Lycia, the
government of their interiour police, and appointed their
own magistrates ' and publick officers. The senate, in
which they were represented, had the sole and exclusive
right of declaring war and making peace ; of receiving
and sending ambassadours ; of entering into treaties, and
forming alliances. It aj^pinted a chief magistrate, called
a pretor, who commanded their armies, and who, assisted
by a council often of the senators, not only administered
the government during the recess of the senate ; but,
when the senate was assembled, had also a large share in
its deliberations. At firsts there were two pretors ; but
experience taught them to prefer one«

. In Achaia, all the cities had the same money, the
same weights and measures, the same customs and laws*
The popular government, we are told, was not so tem^
pestuous in the cities of Achaia, as in some of the other
cities of Greece ; because, in Achaia, it was tempered
by the authority and laws of the confederacy. Indeed it

> 2. Ub. Em. 320. 3)23 . I ^. Laws. b. 9. a 3.

.LECTURES ON LAW. 3^5

U unquestionable, that, in this, confederacy, there was
4PEkU£h more moderation and justice, than was to be found
in any of the cities exercising singly all the prerogatives
of sovereignty.

When Lacedemon was admitted into the Ach«aa
league ; she was obliged to abolish the institutions of
JLycurgus, said to adopt the laws of the Ach»ans* But
X^acedaemon had been long a meniber of the Amphyc-*
tionick Council ; and, during all the time, she bad bee;a
left in the full possession of her own government and
laws. This circumstsMi^ce discloses a very important dif^
ference between those two confederate systems. ^

The ^tolian League was similar to that of the
Achasans ; and therefore it is unnecessary to make parti^
clilar observations conceniing it. ^

The Germanick Body has been generally considered
as a confederate state. From the feudal system, which
has itself many of the important features of a confede-
racy, the federsd system, which constitutes the empire
of Grermany, has grown. Its powers are vested in a
diet, represenftingthe component members of the c«m£e«-
dersu:y; inthe emperour, who is the executive magis»-
trate, with a negative on the decrees of the diet ; and
in the imperisil chamber and aulick council, two tribur
nak possessed of supreme jurisdktion in controversies,
which concern the empire, or happen among its members^

k 1. Pub. 114. 2. Ub. Em. 240. 843.

1 2. Ub. Em. 257,

3t6 I^ECTITRES ON LAW.

The diet possesses the power of legislation for Ae
empire, of making- peace and war, contracting alliances,
assessing quotas of troops and money, cohstructing for«
tresses, reg^ating coin, admitting new- members, and
subjecting disobedient members to the ban of the em-
pire ; by which the party is degraded from his sovereign
rights, and his possessions are forfeited. The members
of the ccmfederacy are expressly restricted from enter-
ing into compacts prejudicial to the empire ; [from im-
posing tolls and duties on their mutual intercourse) widw
out the consent of the emperour and diet; from alter-
ing the value of money ; from doing injustice to one
another ; and from affording assistance or retreat to die
disturbers of the publick peaces The ban is denounced
against such as shall violate any of these restrictions.

The members of the diet, as such, are subject, m
all cases, to be judged by the emperour and di^t ; and,
in their private capacities, by the aulick council and im-
perial chamber*

The prerogatives of the emperour are numerous.
The most important of them are— ^his exclusive right to
make propositions to the diet, to negative its resolutions,
to name ambassadours, to confer dignities and titles, to
fill vacant electorates, to found universities, to grant
privileges not injurious to the states of the empire, to '
receive and apply the publick revenues, and generally to
watch over the publick safety. In certain cases, the
electors form a council to him. In the character of em«-
perour, he possesses no territory within the empire ;
and receives no revenue for his support.

The fundamental principle, on which this confede-
racy rests, is — ^that the empire is a community of sove-

I«J&€T1JR£S OH LA.W. 327

i^igns — ^tbat the diet is a representation of sovereigns—
and that the laws are addressed to sovereigns, *" The
princes and free states of Germany may treat with
foreign powers. "

. The Swiss Cantons are frequently mentioned as form-
ing a <:onfederacy ; but they. are improperly mentioned
in thiit character. They are no more than states con-
nected together by a close a^d perpetual ^alliance. They
have no common treasury ; they have no national troops^
even in war» they have no comnion coin ; they have no
cooammi tribunal ; they have no common characteristick*
of -sovereignty.

■ A

When a dispute happens among the cantons, there is
a provision, that the parties to that dispute shall each
choose &ur judges out of the neutralj cantons, whoy \h
case of disagreement, choose an umpire. This tribunal,
under an path of impartiality, pronounces definitive sen«
tence. This sentence all the cantons are bound to
enforce. °

The United Netherlands are generdly represented
as a confederacy. If the term can, with propriety, be
applied to them ; they are a confederacy of republicks^
or rather of aristocracies, of a very remarkable tex-
ture. I

The union is composed of seven coequal and sove-
reign states or provinces ; ^ and each state or province is

* •

„ 1. Pub. 119. 120. n Vat 171. « 1. Pub. 123.

^ We may exceed the United Provinces by * having, not many
floveieignties in one commonwealth^ but many commonwealths under
one sovereignty. Milt. 370.

328 I^KCTVRES OV 1A.V»

a composition of: equal and independent cities. In all
important cases, not onljr the states, but the cities, musT
be unanimous*

The sovereignty of the union b represented by dbe
states-general, consisting of deputies iq>pouited by the
provinces. Some hold their seats for Kfe -, some, £or skc
years ; some, for three years^ some, for one year ; aome^
during pleasure.

The states-general have auAorkyto enter iato
ties and aUtances » to make war and peaee ; to xaiae
armies and equip flee^ ; to ascertain quotas, and demaiMA
contributions. In all these cases, however, unanimity
and the sanction of their oonstituenls are reifui^te.
They have audbbrity to i^point and vsceivfi aariMunft*
dours ; to execute treaties and alliances already Wbeawdg
to piovide for the coUectaon of diitiea <m imports and
exports ; to regulate the mint, witk a saving tp the pro*
vindal rights ; to govern, as sovereigns, the dependesne
territories.

The particular atstea or provinces are rftslrainad» un^
less widi the general consult, from enteriafr into fcMreiga
treaties; from establishing inqK>8t8 injurious to odi^a;
and from charging higher duties upon tbeir neighbours
than upon their own citizens.

A council of state ; a ehandber of accounts; and five
coHeges of admn-ahy, aid and fortafy the fedevjid adBsani^
stration.

The executive magistrate of the imion is the stadt-
holder, who is now an hel^ditary prince. As stadthold-

LSCTUR^SvOII LAW* 399

mr, he is inTMtod with y&ey cootiderabU firerogatives.
In his divil ci^acily, he has pQwer to settle disputes
between the provinces ; to assist at the deliberations o£
the states-genend ; to g^v^ audiences to foreign ambas*
sadours ; and to keep agenu, for his particular safiairs,
tit foreign courts. In his matitary capaci^, he commands
tlie 4edei«d' troops ; provides for garrisons ; regulatei
wBitery affairs ; disposes of military i^pointm^ats, and
of the government of foi'tified towns. Inx his marine
capacity, he is admiral, and superintends every thing
rdMve to naval afiaifs ; presides in the admiralties in
person or by proxy; i^ipoints naval officers i and esta«
bUidies.cefuiicUs of war, whose sentences are not executed
till : he i^rove diem. He is stadtholder in the several
provinces, as weU as in the imi<m ;> andi i'a this provin*
cialeharactervhehas theappointmeaxtof town magistratesi
execiites proviMkd deerees y and presides, when he plea^
tt€«v in ^e provincial trUmnals. Throughout all| he has
the power of pardon.^ t

After the independence of the United Netherl^ds was
irecognised by Spain, the individual states began to pay
very little regard to the decrees of the' states*general :
(Siren particular towns and l^rdahijfe seemed desirous of
msuntainii^ entire independence on the states of .^e
|»-ovincesy within which they were situated. The Dut^
f;ovemment, which had greatly relaxed, and was even
threatened with dissolution, recovered its tone through
die dangers^ to which the United Provinces w(^re expOi*
•Old by the war of thirty years, which was terminated by
the peace of Westphalia. Since that time, dissensions
aosos^ the Dutch have prevailed, or have been compo*

4 1. Pub. 135« 126.
VOI.»i, U u

/ 1

,-5^

y

^aO L&GTU&ES OH I«4W«

sed, according ats they l^ive drcftded or trusted their am*
bitious neighbours, r

In the Saxon Heptarchy^ a confederacy certainly ex*
isted ; thoug^h^ perhaps, a confederacy weak, defective^
and interrupted ; and from all the confederated states a
wittenagemate was frequently called. ' This general
superintending body was sometimes called a panangli^
cum.
Among the ancient Germans, the genius of .confede-
racy pervaded the whole structure of society. They
sojourned in huts, which served them as strong holds,
to which they carried their property in time of danger.
These strongholds at pagh as the Greeks and Romany
called th^m, were the natural resort of the tribes in their
neighbourhood, and seegm to have been the embryos of
the little states, with whicih ancient Europe so much
abounded. A point of union being thus formed among
a few tribes, it was natural that the warriours should
frequently assemble at that point. , In those assemblies,
a king, or ccimmon leader in war, and an executive
magistrate in peace, was chosen.* ^^ Eliguntur," says
Tacitus,** ^^ in iisdem consiliis principes, qui jura per
pagos^vicosque reddunt."

Though, in general, each pagus acknowledged no
superiour, yet particuljir circumstances of society induced
numbers of them to confederate ; and, when wars hap-
pened, a common leader of the confederacy was chosen
of course* When a confederacy of neighbouring pagi

' 2. AnaL Rev. 337. • Mil. 52, .

< 3. EdiD. FhiL Truis. la. . De mor. G«n&: c 12. ,

LECTURES Olf LAW* 331

I

had subsisted for a considerable time, a sentiment of
national union and of nation^ character began, at last, to
appear and operate. The common leader, occasionally
chosen for a war, was so often elected, that he became
a king, like the chief of a pagus ; that he was a princeps
regionisj with several principes pagorum in such a
subordination under him, as the chiefs of r/c/, or of
primary tribes, were originally held under the chiefs of
the pagi.

These combined associates became, again, the mem-
bers of a greater and less consolidated confederacy.
According to Tacitus, the Suevi, one of the greatest
communities of Germany, were not comprehended in a
single people, but were divided into several nations, all
bearing distinct names, though they were all included
under the common appellation of Suevi. The Semnones,
a single nation, though, indeed, the moi^t noble and the
most ancient nation, comprehended under this great
confederacy, inhabited no fewer than a hundred pagi.
Over the largest portion of Germany the confederacy of
the Suevi extended. ^ Thus the Semnones,' though but
a single member of the great confederacy of the Suevi,
were themselves, considered with regard to the pagi
which they inhabited, a very considerable national con-
federacy.

Of a confederacy, whether supreme or subordinate,
every member possessed, within itself, legislative, execu-
tive, and judicial powers, similar, but inferiour to those
exercised by the confejleracy itself. In this, way the

" Tac. de mor. Germ. c. 38. 39.

352 I^KGTtr&Et OW LAY.

form of society was neatly indestructible* ^ The bpnds
of association ^ere in just, though inverse, number and
proportion to the extent and -greataess of the part»
associated.

«

Let us conclude this general view of confederacies
with an account of onej which was established, where we
should little expect to find it, in Iceland* That obscnre
and sequestered region-— but what place or what people
are there, frofn whence instruction may not be drawn—
was peopled by a series of colonies from Norway. These
colonists relinquished their country, when it was con-
quered by Harold wi<h the beautiful hair, in the/year
eight hundred and seventy eight. In their new settte*
ments, 'they formed small communities with elective
chiefs. These, by degrees, combined together, and held
assemblies, under a common leader, in each of the four
great provinces, into which the ridges of Mount Hecla
divide the island. At last, these four provinces likewise
confederated, and formed, in the year nine hundred and
twenty eight, a republick, under one chief naa^strafe.

I ■ ■

The whole coun^ was arrax^red into- tegaisr divi*
sions, called provinces, hundreds, and reeps. The
magistrates held their offices for life. Diets were held
for the districts ; and an alting, or great annual assewMy,
was held for the nation. In that assembly, beudes the
saTangementof)>olitical matters, appeals were received
from the provincial courts, and rejudged, in its presence,
and under its inspection, by the former judges. Hie
duty of the lagman, or chief of the nation, was to cany
into execution what the alting ordered and decreed.

"« 3. Edin. FhiL Trans. 23.

XJtCTVWUI ON LAW* <d3

Thmn W9m a succcMioa of thirty 'eight kgaunu, which
conciiiaed tiUdie yearaoe thousand two hundred and
sixty two, whc& the republick was destroyed by the
Danes*

This account n taken from the Icelandick historian,
Arngrimus Jonas, a native of the^island, said a person,
who appears to have h^ abundance ol mAt^rials for Us
work.*

' On a subject of such ntagmtude, not only that which
kas been done^ but a^iio^at which has been proposed to
be done, well defierv^8<^4ttention and exaiQinatioii. I
fltBude to the grand ^^"oi ^a general confederacy in
£iir(^, formed by the' imipense genius of Henry the
-Fourth <x£ F|^ce ; in which be received most essential
assistance from the geniiis, no less penetrating axKi active,
o£ £Iizid>eth of England*

It is very remarkable, that, by several writers, and
even by some vety profound ones, this very enlarged
|dan of government is considered a& nothing better than
m mere ^ visionary project ; and doubts are proposed
whether it could ever engage the serious contemplation
of Henry the Great. To me, I confess, the matter
appears in a very different light ; and I feel myself justi«
fied and sappoirted in directing your close and earnest .
attention to it^ when I consider Uie fact as authenticated
by the testimony of Sully, Henry's faithful and confiden-
tial minister, and the plan itself as occm)yi&g» for a series
of years, the unremitted application of Henry and )i*liza-
beth ; who were distinguished by their wisdom^ as well

"" 3,Bdio.PhiLTran8.2S.

dd4 liSOTCftsft o^ iAir«'

as by their enterprise ; and who' koeir^ if ever pauoea
knew, how to draw the important line between what ta-
extravagant and what is great.

An investigation of thi- sublime system, from its
commencement through tl« various and successive stagea
of its progress and preparation^ must be instructive to
all : to Americans, it must be z .cresting as wdl a«

instructive.

.. . 't-r

Sully enters upon his acc^" ^, of ii^with expressing
some sagacious apprehensior Mtkh^^'m fdct, has since
been the case--^it would b 4 bi^ dh^^as one of those
darling chimeras, or idle po. ^^tWwttHilations, in whith,
a mind susceptible of singuk. 4^ Incommon ooiiGep*
tions, is sometimes easily engager. t>3f He c^fesses^ tiiat
at the first time the king sugp M <!^to him Ae idea of a
political system, by which all £iWi^ might be managed
and governed as a single family. iV« received the sugges*
tion, supposing that Henry>eoo:il^ i>v it npthiBg more
than to amuse himself with a^'<)i|ai9% 0^.t>^eculaticm, or,
at most, to show, that his - ^^Miplations cm political
subjects were more profound i more extensive than
those of others. o.

How modest is conscious m^t! Henry often after-
wards owned to his confidential fftend, that he had long
concealed even from him what he meditated upon tfiis
great subject, from a principle oi shame, lest he should
disclose designs, which might appear ridicidons or im-
practicable*

Inattentive to this great design, when it was first sug-
gested, the cold and cautious Sidly was averse to it when

X.SCT0KES OH LAW. 355

the Bi^rgetftioa was renewed. An emlless series of di&
&eulties and obMruMlWB- presented itself to his circum*'
^ect mind. The esLcent of a design, wMch supposed
a union of all the states in Europe ; the concatenation
of ev<^ts, almost infinite, ^iat would be necessary for
iis asix^mplislMneat ;„ ^he immense expemes, which, if
.it could be acicom^ished, would thereby be rolled upon
Srance at a crisis, wi^ln she was scarcdy able to supply
her own necessities* all these considerations induced
him to consid^ he scheme as a vain one, and'^ven to
a<iq»e^ th^it, ;if*it, tb^i^as something illusory. The
diaposkion of/the'^-^iv^if^^ !^ ^i £urope to become jealous
of France, ,^hen dnce.vH^' have assisted them to dissi-
pate their £eajrs fto\e o#av .^frgrown power of the house
of Aa8triay'^Appear^.\an«2 iilBelf^ an ansurmonniable c^*
aiUKCle. His own si:' x^ents he endeavoured to infuse
into- die mind of the i ^vjX, ^^ith an honest desire to un»
deceive him, as he t ;. ug^t. Henry begged him to con-
aider the p^an in its se^ :^m parts, and not to pass an in«
diacriminate sentence .< t>demnation upon die whole.
This s<did[tatiQn, i- ^iva. ^^iMe and so unassuming, it
was imposs&le.to reft;tfv^\fno'%'he result of Sully's co^nsi**
deration was what Hen^,n. tpected it would be — ^the con-
version of the minister a. the opinions of the prince.
Af;ter having s^en all tb^ parts of the fabrick.from their
propei: points of view, ^iter having made the necessa^
examinaidona and die y^cessary calculations, he found
himself engf^pcd and c^&rmed in the sentiment, that
the plan was just in its ^tendon, and that it would be
practicable in the execution, and glorious in its conse«
quences.

* .
Great mmds frequendy unite, without intercommuni-
cadon, upon the same great objects This exalted ays*

^ Um prescfitwd itself id Att pentooiton ami mapLr
■Uftt^ af SUaBriieih, before it kitd ^iccurred to the eae^
p«ttiTe cosqpreheiitidii of Henry. Indeed it sfypemn
douMId, whether he was not tiMtebtad p^^hcr for the
irithine of die di»kigii^ Bot (betoMM ,two mch^vmi^
tfiere was no mean jettoo^r ab<Hit tk« "rii^ or^e wam^
lit <rf die prior diseov^rf* Thefiunily of SvU^ w etitt^
possessed of a letter written by Henry, ^eTidettdy td
Elizabeth, though her naone doee not appear mAf^- i&
die snp^scripdoir or in die letter kseif* It is addressed
t» ^her who m^ks imnimtal- pffaiae.'' fei^^ ifefiry
HfeA^ of a eertsin cd^ect, rnUih h^^s^^d^i^Qm.
excellent and rare enterprise^t^ dk^^thsmsi^ mted etM
oonceived"-^^' a diongbt ridser dhnnfer tka^^mnJ' ,Um
mentions, wiib rapMtre, *^adiac»t;^ so w jl fc eo — m k I sA
and demonstradve of ^at wodU be |iecf^8aai|f foic die
government c^ empires and king^ms,'' and thascf^^^m*
depdonsaad fiBsolii^iatat'^ lromi^htcknoslLU^gle88.CQfi^
be hoped) than' ^^mottt remarkable baoea bodi of
honour snd g^bry.*' These/evpiiKsiima cmifmml^ ta «a
odier person than £ic2dbc(tlN-«4o: no olhtr d)}ece 'iSmti
diat, in the invemgauonof whtefa we i^e^now effiged».

It is well loiown that Heniy and £]iii^iedi w«t«
anXions to h»re a^persaMd inteavi^ir ; Md diai^. in .die*
year 1601, die latter okmer to AoiP'er and "Aifii£sfmmr tq^
Ci^tis fbr du^ pnrpaoe* . The' ^gemogyUila^ .esialJittheA
among^ princes, pmifmitesi the^.<sai»fiiclmL, of .A^oimfor^.
ence; bnt those com immh ai tk Be^ wbkh.ttony could
not make in person, he tsansmitted by the laidiM Sa%«
This minister fotmddiat she was deeply ^og^ig^ilifdie
means, bjr whi<^ the great design im^ be hippUy exc^.
ottted^ andthttt^ notwithstimdrng the i^kul^Sf iidnch^
in aonie 1001111% she afrprah en i Aid ^ jdie did nf»t sypeeiP JH.

X£CTUR£S OK iJLW. 837

>^ to doubt of success. Hiis she diiefljr expected for m
aresson, of the soliditj and justness of which^ Sully de^
clares that he was afterwards well convinced^ It was,
j}iat as the, plan, was, in truth, contrary only to the 4c»-
^igns of some princes, whose Ambidous views were
sufficiently known to all Europe, the obstacles imerpo«ed
by those princes, instead of retarding, would promote
the design; since they would place its' necessity 'in a
laiore striking point of view.

** A very great number, says Sully, of the articles,
conditions, and different dispositions is due to this queeni
and sufficiently evince, that, in respect of wisdom, pe-
netration, suid all the other perfections of the mind, she
iMcas not ipferiour to any king, ,the most truly deserving
of -that title.^'*

The death of this great princess gave such a violent
ahock to the whole plan, that Henry and his minister
were almost indiiced to abandon their fondest hopes.
The successoarto the throne was diie successour neither
to the virtues nor to the talents of Elizabeth ; and Henry
had too much penetration to ex!pect that assistance, which
James had too much pusillanimity to give. After some
time, however, favourable circumstances occurred again,
which induced him to reassume the plan, and to prepare^
with renewed vigour, for its execution. Of its execu-
tion, he wsffl on the very eve, when the fatal poignard of

Ravaillac interrupted it.

• . ' . ' .-J

'The leading object jb the greilt' design w«us to reduce,'
within,reaspns^le bounds, the formidable power of tl»e^
house of Austria. With this view, it was proposed to
devest that house of its ptx^eslions in <iermany, Italy,

VOL. I. XX

33t ££GTUR£8 ON LAW.

•ml the how Cotmtries ; and to caoAwt k to the kingdosi
^f Spain^ bounded by the ocean, the MediterraaeaBt ami
the P)nrenean mountains. That it mighty however, be
equally powerful with the other soivereigns bi Europe, k
was intended to allot lo it Slurdinia, Majorca, Minorca,
the Canaries, the Azores, and its possessions in Ari%
Africa, and America.

" If there be any where," says Vattel, y *' a state rest-
less and mischievous, always ready to injure others, to
traverse their designs, and to fotnent domestick troubles
within them $ it is not to be doubted, that all have a right
to join in order to repress it, and deprive it of the power
to molest them in future* The conduct of Philip the
second of Spain was adapted to unite aU Europe against
him ; and it was from just reasons that Henry the Grei^
formed the design of humbling a power, formidable by its
forces, and pemkious by its maxims."

Between Henry and Elizabeth, it was a settled point,
that neither of them should, by the <Ufferent dismember-
ments proposed to be made, receive any thing, except the
glory of, distributing them with equity and impartiality-
Henry even sometimes said, widi equal moderation and
good sense, that were the meditated dkpositions onee
firmly established, he would have consented that the
extent of France should have been determined by a
majority of suffrs^es. With regard to Engfamd, die
conduct of Elizabeth was probably influenced by an
observation, which she made, that the Britannick isles,
in all the different states, through which they passed,
and amcKig all the variations of their laws and poUcy, had

LCCTUKES ON LAW. SS9

never experienced great nikfortuties, but when^ thei^
aorereigns had interfered in matters beyondttbe sphere
vof their little continent. It seetnS) indeed, as if they
were cancoiitred in it, even by nature ; and their happi*
Qess appears to depend entirely on themselves, provided
^hey aim only to maintain peace in^ the three nati<ms
^•ubject to them, by governing each according to its own
laws and customs.

• • •

The ultimate design of the great plan was, to divide
dSurope equally among a certain number of powers, in
ftuch a manner, that no one might have reason for either
envy or fear, from the power or possession^ of the others.
The number of stales were reduced to fifteen. They
.were of three diffmnt kinds ; hereditary monarchies ;
elective monarchies ; republicks. The hereditary men-
Archies were six — ^France, Spain, Britain, Denmark,
Sweden, Lombardy. The elective monarchies were five
*— the Empire, the Papacy, Poland, Hungary, Bohemia.
The republicks were four — the Venetian, the Italian, the
Heivetick, the Belgick.

There was to have been a general council, represent-
ing 9l\ the states of Europe. The estabUshment of this
would have been the happiest kivention that could have
-been conceived for preventing those innovations, and for
applying a remedy to those inconveniences or defects,
-which time often introduces or disccrrers in the wiaest
jmd the most useful institutions. The model of this
general council of Europe was formed on diat of the
4neient Amphyctions of (k^eee (a delineation (^ whieh
I have already laid before you) with such aherationa only
as rendered it suitable to the alterations of customs, du
mate, and policy. It was to consist of a certain number

d40 X^SCfURBS OK LAW*

^f CklQgates frdm all tli« governmeiits .o£ tiie Ghristiaii
Sle^ublick, who were to be constamtly ibBS^mbled wn n
oeoSEite. This body was to discuss the different inte^es^
decide . the controversies, smd determine all the ciri^
jpolitical, and religious affairs of Europe^ whedier within
itself or with its ueighbours* The senate was to cosatst
pf four delegates frojtti each of the following power8"-«>
the Emperour, the Pope, the kings of France, Spain^
England, Denmark, Sweden, Lombardy, Poland, and the
republick of Venice ; and of two only from the other
repubUcks and ipferiour ..powers. All together would
have composed a senate of about sixty six personal
.They were to be chosen every three years* Withregmrd
to the place of meeting, it was undetermined whether it
would be better for the council to be fixed <»r an^bulatory ;
upited in one, ot* divided into, thr^e. If it were divided
into three, each containing twenty two magistrates, then
eaOh of them must have been fixed in stich a centre as
should appear to be most commodious. If it were judged
isijore etp^dient not to divide the assembly, Whether fixed
or ambulatory, it must have been ne^ly in the centre of
Europe. .

Be3ides this general council, it would h^ave been pro-
per to have cons^tuted subordinate councils ; but tffhat-
ever the number or form of those subordinate. counciU
bad been, it would have been abisplutely necessary UHijt
im^s^ipealshould have li^in from them tQ the genet^al comv-
pili whase decisions, . when considered as proceeding
fr<>m^he united authority of all the sOvereignN4P>^i^^UQ<^
in a maimer equally free and absolute ; must have beea
i:<gar4i&d as «o many filmland iireYofcahte deerees.

L£eTaR£S 09r law. d4l

A psdrticufao* acooont is, given fa^ Sndly of Uie meft#
taken to aecure^the auccess of tins great azid g^ori-
design.

Henry ^as inde&tigable in his negotiations in th«
different courts of Europe, particularly in the United
Provinces, and in the circles of Germany. The coun<*
cU of the states-general were Very soon unanimous in
their determinations. The states-general were, in a
skort time, followed by the landgrave of Hesse, and the
prince of Anhalt, to whom, as well as to the prince c^
Orange, the confederacy was obliged for being increased
by the duke of Savoy ; by sdl of the reformed religion
in Hungary, Bohemia, and lower Austria; by many
princes and towns in Germany; and by a great propor*
lion of the Swiss Cantons* But a discovery either of
tlie true motives, or of the full extent of the design^
was cautiously avoided. It was, at first, concealed from
all, without exception ; and it was afterwards revealed^
only to a few persons of approved discretion ; and
even of those, only to such as were absolutely to engage
others to join the confederacy.

The king, on his side, had actually set on foot two
good and well furnished armies ; one of which he was
to have commanded in person. It was to have consist-
ed of twenty ' thousand foot, all native French, eight
thousand Swiss, ibm* thousand Lansquenet^Or Walloons,
five thousand horse, and twenty cannons. The second
Was to have been connntodedby Lesdigaieres, consisting
<of ten thousdind foot, one thousand hdrse, and ten can^
Dons ; besides^ a ftyitig camp of four thousand foot, si]t
•hundred horse, and ten cannons; and Preserve of two
thousand foot to garrison places, where they might be
necessary. Magazines were collected and deposited in

348 LECTaass en law.

proper idaces, for faciiit«ti|ig the executioii of tiie enter-
prise : and) with the same view, maiofestQes were con^
pos^d with the greatest care. In them, a spirit of jaatkc^
of good policy, of honesty, of disinterestedness, and of
invicdable faith was universa% apparent.

It id impossible to dismiss a design, so interesting to
humanity, without indulging a few observations concern-
ing its nature, and its probable effects. That it was
bold and magnificent, it will be unanimously agreed «
but was it nothing more ? wa« it not presumptuous
Und extravagant? We have seen that, as such, it was,
at first, considered by SuHy. As such, even thfc least
difficult and most unii«i|Jortant parts of it were considered
by the other counsellors of France : for it was only on
the least difficult and most unimportant parts, that he
eould venture to consult them. ** Could it be imagined,^'
Says Sully, *^that Henry, in his whole council, could not
find one person, besides myself, to .whom he could',
without danger, disclose the whole of his designs ; and
that the respect due to him could scarce restrain those,
who appeared most devoted to his service, from treating
what, with the greatest circumspection, he had intrusted
to them, as wild and extravagant chimeras." So true
is sometimes the poet's exclamation —

Truths would yoa teach, olr save a staking land?
AH fear^ none aid you, and few understaad.

But nothing discouraged that great prince^ who was |i|a
abler politician and a better judge ^hanall his council,
and than all his kingdom* When he perceived that
affairs, both at home and abroad, began to wear a^ it^
vourable aspect, he then considered his success. as infill*
lible.

LEGTURfiS OK LAW. 043

At this ditftance of time, and with our prevent inq>er-
fect knowledge of particular circumstances, it would be
timwise to attempt a judgment, or even a conjecture, upon
m detail of facts, existing at that age, and in the differ**
ent states of Europe. But from general principles, and
from our knowledge- of some eminent characters, infe^
Fences, plausible and-even satisfactory, may be drawn*

One inference may be drawn from the nature of the
design, which Henry had formed. It was not a desiga
inspired by mean and despicable ambition: it was not a
design, guided by base . and partial interests : it was a
design, in the first place, to render France happy, and.
permanendy happy: but as he well knew that France
could not enjoy permanent felicity^ unless in conjunction,
with the other parts of Europe ; and as he w«s well plea- '
sed diat the other parts of Europe should participate the
felicity of France ; it was the happiness of Europe in.
general which he laboured to procure ; and to procure
in a manner BO solid and so durable, that nothing should
afterwards be. able to shake its foundations. May w^
not conclude, that, every thing else being equal, the.
probability is in favour of a great and good design i The
fury and ravage of conquests have extended farther and
wider, than the. benevolent system of Henry the Great
was meant or proposed to extend. Why should evil be
more powerful or more enlarged in its operations than
good? In private life, success is moat frequently, though
not universally, on the side of virtue: is it natu-
nd to expect a contrary rule in the administration of
states and kingdoms i Is there not reason to hope that
pttUtck virtue will, on the whole, be triumphant; and
that pubHck fiagitiousness must, and should, and, at a
pMfier .time, -wfll.be degraded to the deepest ribyss of
humiliation I

344 I.BCTURES OJK tAWi

These obBcrrations suggest genend realms in £g^our
of the .great design: other reasons nifty be, drawn frol^L
the character, and tidents, and virtues of the gre«t iiiu»
who undertook ks execution. It could not have beem
formed by one more eminently qualified to aceompliah
it. He possessed a courage capable of surmounting the
greatest obstacles: he possessed a presence of niind,
which saw and seized every opportunity of advantage: he
possessed a prudence, which would not precipitate, but
would calmly and patiently wait for the fit season cS
action: he possessed consummate experience, the result
jointly of talents and of time. With all thoae great qm^
Uties ias a soldier, as a statesman, and as a patriot, what
was there, fair, or honest, or honourable, to which he
wuld not form just pretensions i Had tlus enterprise
fisiUd in his hands, it would probably haye failed
for- no- other reason than this^^that he was too great
and tpo enlightened for the age in which he lived-

Had he been successful, the consequences of his snc*
eess would, indeed, have been beneficial, lasting, an&
eiBtensive, Those consequences would have reached not
only his own suAi^ts, not only the christiaD nations of
E^nope, but the whole world in general : of those con*
sequences, the generation, at that time alive, the gene«>
rations that have since succeeded, ^and those generations
that are still to sutceed, would hove participated, doivn
to the latest ipeoriods of time : those consequeoces wouU-
have been the source of all the snceets, irhidht tiatsiraUjr:
flow from an uninterrupted .and univeisal tranq^iSitjr* ' *

l«et me add another temarkv wducjiihas
Europe, and which, with>pride and jdy^ jnay betrans*
ferred to Amfrica. (^ Heniy .tb^ Great .'iltai ,sdivaysi|ni

LECTUUBS ON LAW.
the honour of being considered as the author of the mpst
important invention for th? benefit of nt^ankind, that ha^
yet appeared in the world ; the execution of which may,
perhaps, be. reserved by Providence, for the greatest an4
most capable of his successours.^' T|iis rich succession
has been reaped in America. Here the sublime system
of Henry the Great has been effectually realized, and
completely carried into execution.

When the political bonds, by which the American '
States had be^n connected with Great Britain, were dis-
aplved; when they assumed, amoiig the powers of the
earth, the separate and equal station, to which the laws
of nature and of nature's God entitled them, the fornx
pf government, which each should institute for herself,
and' that form, if any, which all should institute for
all,, became objects of th^ most serious and interesting
deliberation. With regard to this last, which is the ob-
ject of our present discussion, four different systems lay
before them ; any one of which they might havp adopted.
They might have consolidated themselves into one go-
vernment, in which the ^separate existence of the states
would hav^ been entirely absorbed. They might have
rejected any plan of union or association, and have acted
as distinct and unconnected states. They might have
formed two or more confederacies. They might have
united in one federal republick.

To support, with vigour, a single government over
the whole extent of the United States, would, I appre-
hend, demand a system of the most unqualified and the
Most unremitted despotism : even despotism herself, ex-
t^ded so far and so wide, would totter under the weig^
9f h^r own unwieldiness.

V OL. I. y y

%

346 LECTURES ON LAW. \

^Separate states, numerous as those of America are,
still more numerous as they must become, contiguous
in situation, unconnected and disunited in government,
wpuld; at one time, be the prey of foreign force,* foreign
influence, and foreign intrigue ; at another, the yictims
of mutual rage, rancour, and revenge.

Would it have been proper to liave divided the Uni-
ted States into two or more confederacies i It will not
be unadvisable to examine this object with accuracy and
attention* Some aspects^ under which it may be viewed,
are far from being, at first sight, uninviting. Two or
more confederacies would be each more compact and
more manageable, than a single one extending over the
same territory. By dividing the United States into two
or more confederacies, the great collision of interests,
apparently or really different or contrary, in the whole
extent of their dominion, would be broken,^ and, in a
great measure', disappear in the several parts. But these
advantages, which are discovered from t^ertdin points of
view, are greatly overbalanced by inconveniences, which
will appear on a closer inspection. Animosities and,,
perhaps, wars would arise from assigning the extent, the •
limits, and the rights of the different confederacies*
The* expenses of governing would be multiplied by the
number of federal governments. The danger, resulting
from foreign influence and mutual dissensions, would
not, perhaps, be less great and alarming in the instance
of different confederacies, than in the instance of differ-
ent, though more nume]:ous, unassociated states. These
observations, and many others which might be made on
the subject, will be sufficient to evin{^, that a^ivision
of the United States into a number of separate confe-
deracies would probably be an unsatisfactory and an un-
successful experiment.

« ^

/LECTURES ON LAW.
The only remaining system, that is to be considered,
is the union of tl^e American States into one confederate
republick. It will not be necessary to employ many argu-
inents to show, that this is the most eligible system,
which could have been proposed* By adopting it, the
vjgour and decision of a wide spreading monarchy may
be associated with the freedom and beneficence of a
compacted commonwealth. On one' hand, the extent of
territory ; the diversity of climate and soil ; the number,
and greatness, and connexion of lakes and rivers, with *
which the United gtates are intersected and almost sur-
rounded, all indicate an enlarged government to be fit
znd advantageous for them. On the other hand, the
principles and dispositions of their citizens indicate,
that, in this enlarged government, liberty shall reign
triumphant.

Agreeably to these principles, the United States have
been formed into one confederate republick ; first, under
the articles of confederation ; afterwards, lilider our pre-
sent national government. The weakness and inefficien-
cy of the former; the excellencies, the advantages, and
the imperfections of the latter — for it has its imperfec-
tions, though neither many nor dangerous — we shall
hereafter have an opportunity of showing. Our present
purpose win be best answered by taking a general view
of those principles, characters, and . properties, which
distinguish or 'ought to distinguish a confederate repub^
lick and its members,

" An overgrown republick," says the Marquis of Bec»
caria, in the exquisite performance^, with which he has
enriched the treasures of legislation — " an overgrown
republick can be saved from despotism, only by subdi-

348 LJJCTURES ON LAW.

VI ding it into a number of confederate republicks. But
how is this practicable ? By a despotick dictator, who,
with the courage of Sylla, has as much genius for build-
. ^n& upi as that Roman KaS for pulling down. If he be
an ambitious man ; his reward will be immortal glory :
if a philosopher ; the blessings of his fellow citizens will
sufficiently console him for the loss of authority, though
he should not be insensil)le to their ingratitude."* In
the United States, there is no occasion for the assump-
tion of dictatorial power, in order to be enabled to per-
form supereminent services for thfl^ publick. Powers
amply sufficient for the performance of the greatest
services, the enlightened citizens of the United States
know how to give. As they know how to give those
powers, so they know how to confine them within the
proper and reasonable limits.

If a commonwealth is small, it may be destroyed by a
foreign power ; if it is extensive, it cariries within it the
internal causes of its destruction. This double disad-
vantage affects equally democracies and aristocracies^
whether they are well, or whether they are ill constituted.
The former disadvantage is selfevident ; and, therefore,
requires no illustration. The latter may be evinced
from the following considerations. In a very extended
commonwealth, it is difficult, if not impracticable, to pro-
vide, at the same time, the three following requisites—
a number of representatives, which will not be too large ;
opportunities of minute and local information, which will
be sufficiently frequent and convenient ; an^ a connexion
between the constituent and representative, which will
be sufficiently intimate and binding. The experience of

* 6ec«c«S6.

L£CTUR£8 ON lAW. 349

ages evinces, that, where a certain excess in numbers
prevails, regularity, decency, and the convenient despatch
of business are expected in vain. On the other hand,
when, to avdid an excessive number of representatives^
-one representative is allotted to too great a number of
constituents ; it is improbable, that the former should
possess a sufficient degree of accurate and circumstantial
knowledge, or of an interest^ common, and, at the same
time, peculiar, with the latter, to qualify him for the
zealous and well informed discharge of his confidential
trust. Add to these considerations, that, in a common-
wealth, the proceedings and deliberations are too com-
plicated and too slow for the emergencies of an extended
government; to whose affairs and interests, simplicity
and secrecy in council, and vigour and desp?.tchin execu-
tion are of indispensable necessity. For these reasons,
it is not unlikely, that mankind would, at last, have been
obliged to submit always to the government of a single
person, if they had not invented the form of a constitu-
tion, which is recommended by all the internal advan-'
tages of a republican government, and, at the same time,
by all the force and energy of a government, which is
monarchical. This form is a federal republick.

This form of government is a convention, by which
several states consent to become citizens of a larger state,
which they wish to form. * It is a society formed of
other societies, which make a new one* This new one
may be enlarged and aggrandized by the union of asso*
ciates still new.

This kind of republick, fitted for resistance against
exteriour attacks, is equally fitted to maintain its graat*

s Mont. Sp. Laws. b. 9. c 1.

350 LECTURES ON LAW.

nest without interiour corruptipn. It is formed for
avoiding the inconveniences of that government, which
is bad; and for securing the benefits of that, which is
good.

In this kind of republick, the rights of internal legis*
lation may be reserved to all the states, of which it is
composed; while the adjustment of their several <Jaims,
the power of peace and war^ the regulation of comnderce,
the right of entering into treaties, the authority of taxa-
tion, and the direction and government of the common
force of the confederacy may be vested in the national
government*

A confederate republick should consist of states,
whose government is of the same nature ; and it is proper
that their government should be of the republican kind.
Small monarchies are unfriendly to the genius of confe-
deration* The spirit of monarchy is too often dominion
and war; that of a commonwealth is more frequently
moderation and peace. It is not likely, therefor^, that
these two kinds of government should subsist, on amica-
ble terms, in the same confederated republick. Thus
Germany, which consists of free cities and arbitrary
monarchies, forms a confederacy, jarring andLdisjointed.
Thus Greece was ruined, when the kings of Macedon
obtained a seat among the Amphyctions. Hence we
may see the propriety and wise policy of that article in
the constitution of the United States,^ which provides^
that they shall guaranty to every state in the union a
republican form of government. .

«

** Art4.8.4.

LECTURES ON LAW. ^51

When we s^y, that the government of those states,
^which unite in the same confederacy, ought to be of the
t^me nature ; it is not to be understood, that there
should be a precise and exact uniformity in all their
particular establishments and laws. It is sufficient that
the fundamental principles of their laws and constitutions
be consistent and congenial ; and that some general
rights and privileges should be diffused indiscriminately
among them. Among these, the rights and privileges
of naturalization hold an important place. Of such con-
sequence was the intercommunication of these rights
and privileges in the opinion of my Lord Bacon, that
he considered them as the strongest of all bonds to
cement and to preserve the union of slates. ^^ Let us
take a view,'* says he, " and we shall find, that where-
soever kingdoms and states have been united, and that
union incorporated by a bond of mutual naturalization,
you shall never observe them afterwards, upon any occa-
sion of trouble or otherwise, to break and sever again." ®
Machiavel, when he inquires concerning the causes, . to
which Rome was indebted for her splendour and great-
ness, assigns none of stronger or more extensive ope-
ration than this — she easily compounded and incorporated
with strangers. ** This important subject has received a
proportioned degree of attention in forming the consti-
tution of the. United States. " The citizens of each
state shall be entitled to all privileges and immuni-
ties of dozens in the several states."® In addition
to this, the congress have power to ** establish a uni-
form rule of naturalization throughout the United
States."' ^

<" 4. Ld. Bac 343. did. 214. « Art 4. 8.2.

' Art. 1. s. 8.

- .

S52

LECTURES ON LAW*

Though a union of laws is, by no means, necessary
to a union of states ; yet a similarity in their code of
publick ^ laws is a most desirable object. The publick
law is the great sinew of government. The sinews of
the different governments, composing the union, should,
as far as it can be effected, be equally strong. ^^ In this
point," says my Lord Bacon, ** the rule holdeth, which
was pronounced by an ancient father, touching the diver*
sity of rites in the church ; for finding the vesture of the
queen in the psalm (who prefigured the church) was of
divers colours ; and finding again that Christ's coat was
without a seam, concludeth well, in veste varietas sit.

w

scissura non sit. ^

Non onmibns &cies una ; sed qualis decet esse sororam.

OVID.

In a confederated republick, consisting of states of
unequal numbers, extent, and power, the influence of
each ought to bear a corresponding proportion. The
Lycian republick was an association of twenty three
towns. The large ones had three votes in the common
council, the middling ones two, the small ones one.
They contributed to the national expenses according to
the proportion of suffrages. " Were I to give a model,'*
says the celebrated Montesquieu, ^ ^* of an excellent
confederate republick, I would pitch upon that of
Lycia.'*

No one state, comprehended within a confederated*
republick, should be permitted to conc^lude an alliance
with a foreign nation. This salutary regulation subsists

f 4 Ld. Bac 334. 335. h 4.Ld.Bac.315. iSp.Laws.b. 9,c3;.

L£CTUR:I^S OtjT LAW. 354

not In the constitution of the Germankk Body. Hence
%he frequent dissensions and calamities, to which that
j^re^t confederacy is constantly exposed, and with which
Jt is frequently visited, through the rashness or the an>-
bition of a single memben

With regard to foreign transactions, and with regard
to those matters, which affect the genci al interests of
■the whole uiiion, a confederated republick should be con*
^dered and should act as a single government or nation.

A union of hearts and affections, as well as a union
of counsels and interests, is the very life and soul of a
confederated republick. This is a subject, on which it
i^ almost impossible to say too much, or to speak with
tof» much zeal. We have, in former lectures, i seen
•how strong, how active, and how persevering are the
operations and aims of our social powers. They are
jcapable of being raised to the greatest height. They are
capable of being enlarged to the greatest extent. But
they partake of human imperfection : in their most use-
ful and amiable forms, they sometimes degenerate into
irregularity, abuse, and what I may call an excess of
ippncentricity : by this I mean, overstrained exertions
within a narrow and contracted sphere. Faction itself
is frequently nothing else than a warm but inconsiderate
ebullition of our social propensities.

How easily is the esprit du corps generated ! How
powerfully is it felt ! How Universally does it operate !
Hqw early does it appear ! How ardent we see it in boys

J Ante ch. 7.

VOL. I. Z Z

A.

354 LECTURES ON LAW.

of diSerent schools ; and of different classes in the same
school ! With what emulation do th6y strive to outshine
one another in their several tasks or sports ! With
what eagerness do the young men of neighbour-
ing and rival towns — rival because they are neighbour-
ing — contend for victory m their nu-al and manly exer-
cises ! Let the distinction be once formed — it is imma-
terial on wha€ occasion, or from what cause — ^and its
effects will be both strong and lasting. They will be be-
neficial or pernicious, according to the direction, which
it first receives, and the objects to which it ultimately
tends. How frivolous ; how fierce ; how obstinate ; and
how bloody were the contests of the Blues and Greens
in the Hippodrome of Constantinople ! The empire was
sometimes shaken to its centre ; an(j[ those, who pro-
duced the strong convulsions, could tell neither what
they wished, nor why they were agitated. On the othei^
hand ; how often has the reputation of a regiment been
preserved or heightened — ^how often, in battle, has vic-
tory been obtained or retrieved, by the wise encourage-
ment and skilful applix^ation of the esprit du corps ! This
spirit should not be extinguished: but in all govern-
ments, it is of vast moment — in confederated govern-
ments, it is of indispensable n'bcessity— that it should be
regulated, guided, and controlled.

^^ The associating genius of man,'' says my Lord
Shaftesbury, "is never better proved? than in those very
societies, which are formed in opposition to the general
one of mankind, and to the real interest of the state." ^
Extensive governments are particularly exposed to this
inconvenience: to this inconvenience a national go-
vernment, such as ours, composed of a great number of

k 1. Shaft. 114

I*XCtt7RE8 ON LAW. ^5S^

States, powerful, extensive, and separated, taa great dis-
tance, by situation, and, sometimes too, by an opinion
of interest, not only from one another, but from the su-
perintending power, by which they are connected — to
this inconvenience, I say, such a national government isy
of all, the most exposed— by this inconvenience, I add,
such a national government is, of all, the most endan-
. gered. To embrace the whole, requires an expansion of
. mind^of talents, and of tem'{)er. To the trouble, though
the generous trouble, of expanding their mind, their
. talents, and their temper, some will be averse from in-
dolence, or what the indolent call moderation ; others
will be averse from interest, or what the interested call
prudence. The former will encourage a narrow spirit
by their example ; the latter will encourage it by their
' exertions also. These last will introduce and recom-
mend the government of their state, as a rival, for so-
cial and benevolent affection, to the government of the
United States. The simplicity of some, the inexperi-
.ence of others, the unsuspecting confidence, again, of
others will be won by plausible and seducing representa-
tions ; and, in this manner, and by these arts, the patri-
otick emanations of the soiil, which would otherwise be
diffused over the whole Union, will be refracted and con-
verged to a very narrow and inconsiderable part of it.

Against this ungenerous application of one of the
noblest propensities of our nature, the system of our
education and of our law ought to be directed with the
most vigorous and unremitted ardour. This application
of that noble propensity is not merely ungenerous : it is
no less unwise. It is unwise, as to the person, who
makes it ; it is unwise, as to the state, to the advantage
of which it is supposed to be made. Apply and extend.

356 * LECTURES OH LAW.

in favour of the Union, tfa*e same train of reflection aacT
argument which is used in favour of the state. Widi
regard to the latter, will it not be allowed-^will it not be
lU'ged— will it not be properly urged, that the ilkterest
of the whole should never be sacrificed to that of a paitt
nor the interest of a greater part to that of a part,
which is smaller ? Will it ndt be allowed — ^will it not be
urged, that to think or act in a contrary manner* woidd
be improper and unwise ? Why should not llie saipe rea-
soning and the same conduct be aillowed-— why should
they not be urged — ^for they may be urged with equal
propriety^in favour of the interests of the Union, or of
the greater part of the Union, compared with those of a
single member, of which that Union is composed i

But it will be seldom, if ever, necetostfy that die
interest of a single state should be sacrificed to that of
the United States. The laws, and government, and
policy of the union operate universally and not partially ;
for the accomplishment of general and not of local pur-
poses. On the other hand, the laws, and government,
and policy of a particular state, compared with the Union,
operate partially and not universally; for the accom«
plishment of purposes, which are local, and not general.
If, then, on any subject, a diiference should take place
between the sentiments, and designs, and plans of- the
national government and those of the government of a
single state ; on whose side are justice and general utility
likely to be found ? It is to be presumed that they wiUbe
found on the side of the national government. That
government is animated and directed by a representation
of the whole Union: the government of a single itate is
animated and directed by a representation of only a part,
inconsiderable when compared with the whole. Is it

LSCTURBS ON LAWt t^S9

not more i^ensonable/as weU as more potriottek, that the
interests of every part should be governed, since they
will be embraced, by the counsels df the Whole, than that
the interests of the whole should be governed, since they
will not be embraced, by the counsels of a part f

Expahded patriotism is a cardinal virtue in the Uni-
ted States. This csu*dinal virtue-^this ^'passion for the
commonweal," superiour to contracted motives or views,
will preserve inviolate the connexion of interest between
the whole and all its parts, and the connexion of affection
as well as interest between all the several parts*

Let us, then, cherish ^ let us encourage ; let us ad«
mire ; let us teach: let us practise this ^^ devotion to
the publick," so meritorious, and so necessary to the
peace, and greatness, and happiness of the United States.

<< Thfe central parent-publick calls
Its utmost effort forth, awakes each sense,
The comely, grand, and tender. Without this,
This awful pant, shook from sublimer powers
Than those of self, this heaven-infused delight,
This moral gravitation, rushing prone
To press the pubHck good, mir system soon,
Traverse, to several uelJUh centres drawn,
WiU reel to ruin."

2. Thonu Works. 158.

^ — To avoid this fate,
Let worth and virtue-
Exerted full, from every quarter shine,
Commix'd in heightened blaze. Light flash'd to light,
Moral or intellectual, more intense
By giving glows. As on pare winter's eve,
Qradual, the stats efiulge ; fainter, at first.

S5S

LECTURES ON Z.AW«

Tbey, stragi^g^, rise : but whea the radiant IumC,
In thick profusion poured, shineout immeniCi
Each casting; vivid influenca on each,
From pole to pole a glittering deluge plajrs^
And worlds above rcjoicei and men betow.**

2. Thonu Work: 16S.

CHAPTER IX.

or HAN, AB A HEHB£R 07 THS GREAT COMMONWEALTH

OF NATIONS.

iLVERY civil society, under whatever fomi it appears,
whether governed merely by the natural laws of such a
society, or by them and civil institutions superadded-—
every such society, not subordinate to another, is a sove*
reign state.

Those, who unite in society, lived, before their
union, in a state of nature : a state of nature is a state
of equality and liberty. That liberty and that equality,
belonging to the individuals, before the union, belong,
after the union, to the society, which those individuals
compose. The consequence. is, that a society is sub«
jected to no power or authority without it ; that it may
do what is necessary for its preservation ; that it may
exercise all its rights, and is obliged to give an account
of its conduct to- no onts. But these things constitute
LECTURES ON LAW.

what is called sovereignty* Every state, therefore
composed of individuals, free and equal, is a state sove-
reign and independent. The aggregate body possesses
all the rights of the individuals, of whom it is formed.

Another consequence is, that the rights of any one
state are naturally the same as those of every other. States
are moral persons, who live together in a natural society,
under the law of nations. To give a state a right to
make an immediate figure in the great society of nations,
it is sufficient, if it be really sovereign and independent ;
that is, it must govern itself by its own authority.* Thus,
when the United Colonies found it necessary to dissolve
the political bonds, which had connected them with
Great Britain, and to assume among the powers of the
dftrth the separate and eqiud station, to which tbe laws
of nature and of nature's God entitled them ; they had a
right to publish and declare, as, in fact, they did pub-
lish and declare, ihat ^^ they were free and indepeiident
Btate^; and that, as free and independent. states, they
•had fidl power tp levy war, to conclude peace, contract
<dUaacea, establish ccmtmerce, and to do all other acts
and things, which independent states may of right do ;'^
though, at that time, no articles of confederation were
'agreed upon ; nor wa» any form of civil government
inatituted by them.

A number of individuals, who have formed them*
selves into a society or state, are, with regard to the
•purposes of the society, bound to consider themselves as
one moral person. JBut the rest of mankind, who are
not parties tp this social compact, are under no obliga-

» Vat i>. 1, «. 4^

LECTURES ON LAW. 361

tion to take notice of it ; and may still consider the society
as a large number of unconnected persons. This per-
sonality-— I know no better expression for it— of a state
must, as to other nations, be derived from their consent
and agreement. But when a society have once associa-
ted, and considered and announced themselves to other
iiations as a moral person, this consent and agreement
ought not to be refused, without solid and special rea-
sons, which will justify the refusal. On this consent
and agreement, the mutual and mutually beneficial faiter-
course of nations is founded : whatever, therefore, pro-
motes this intercourse, should be zealously encouraged;
whatever prevents or interrupts it, should be cautiously
avoided.

Though one state has, by an unequal alliance,*^ formed
"" a connexion with another state more powerful ; still
the weaker state is to be reckoned in the class of
sovereigns. To the weaker state, the unequal alliance
may secure the most assistance ; on the stronger, it may
reflect the most honour ; but it leaves both the same
rank among the society of nations.

We may go further ; if a state, in order to provide
for its own safety, finds it necessary to place itself under
the protection of another ; and, in consideration of that
protection, stipulates to perform equivalent offices, with«i
out devesting itself of the right of self-government ; such
a state ceases not to preserve its place among sovereigns.
The payment even- of tribute, though it may diminish the
dignity of the society, by no means destroys or impairs
Its sovereignty or its rights.

. TOL. I. 3a.

\

369 |.BGTURI|t ON ]i,AW»

Tvo sovereign states may employ the same executive
magistrate, or bear allegiwce to the same prince, widw
out any dependence on each other ; and each may retain
all its national rights, free and undiminished* This
last, under the house of Stuart, was the case of £n-
S^d iM^d Scotland, before the natim of Great Britain
was formed by their union. This last, also, as shall be
hereafter shown at large, was the case of Great Qrit^iiii
and the American colonies, before the political connexion
between them, was declared to be dissolved*

But one people who have passed under the dominion
of another* can no longer form a state : they can no
longer retain a place in the great society of nations. Of
that great society, equality is the basis and the rule. To
this equality, the inferiority of subjection and the supe-
riority of command are, alike, repugnant-

This equality of nations is the great and general
foundation of national^ rights. In this matter, no regard
is had to names. On the great theatre of the worlds
empires, kingdoms, cpmmcmwealths, jMincipalities, duke-
doms, free towns, are all equally imperial. A society,
which, without subordination to any other^ exercises
within itself all the essential powers of society, is save*
reign, and has all the rights of a soyereign and inde*
pen4ent state; however narrow its territories; however
small its numbers may be.

£vety nation deserves consideration apd respect;
because it makes aQ immediate figure ia the gcandest
aociety of the human race ; because it is independent <^
all earthly power ; and because it is an assemblage of a
number of men^ whoj doubtleas* are more considerable
than any individual. ^

^itll regard to precedenc^Tf or the first place ftmong
«quak, power and antiquity are grounds, upon which it
is daimed or allowed* Into this questioiEi, the forms of
'government do not enter.

The natural state of individuals we have already
seen to be a state of society and peace : such alto is
the natural state of nations. This state, it is the duty
o£ nations, as well as of individuals, to preserve and im«
prove. But among nations, as well as ^mong individuals,
differences and causes of differejuce wiU, sometimes,
unavoidably arise. - Over independent nations there is
BO coercive authority, to which recourse may be had for
a decision of their controversies. What, then, shall be
done, in order to terminate or adjust them i Much may
be done ; much ought to be done, before the fatal appeal
ia Qiade to the dernier resort of sovereigns.

In some peculiar situations, it is more prudent, as
veil as more honourable, to abandon than to claim a
right ; to disregard, than to resent an injury : but, by
nations, even this laudable and generous conduct should
be observed with great prudence and circumspection, and
in such a manner as, instead of cowardice, to discover
magnanimity. ' Whmi this conduct can be so observed,
what a glorious example does it exhibit to the world !
** A king of France ought not to revenge the wrongs of
a duke of Orleans,'* was nobly said by a monarch of an
elevated mind. Might it not al$o be said, that it is not
every petty offence, which ought to provoke the dignified
energy of sovereign power ? Suppose a picture, disre«
spectful to Lewis the fourteenth, had been exhibited in
Holland ; was this a sufiicient occasion for drawing forth
the great monarch at the head of the armies of France i

904 LBCTUMB OK LA^.

Was it a sufficient occasion for drawing him forth at the
head of those armies against a power, comparatively
inconsiderable, and trembling to its centre from a con.
scions sei\se of its own inferiority i

Nee deus intersit, nisi nodus vindice dignus.

On some occasions, it may be proper to claim a right,
or take notice of an injury, merely widi a determined and
heroick purpose of ceding the former, and of forgiving
the latter. This mode of proceeding, adopted at a proper
time, in a proper manner, and by a proper person, has a
great and a useful effect. It. displays the good sense
and superioiir judgment of him, who observes it; and
secures the esteem, perhaps the friendship of him, to-
wards whom it is observed.

Controversies often happen, when neither of the
parties to them is intentionally wrong : they arise from
misapprehensions or mistakes. In such cases, nothing
more is necessary for an amicable accommodation, than
candid conference and mutual explanation. ** There are
two kinds of disputation," says Cicero,** " one, by argu-
ment and reason ; the other, by violence and force. To
determine controversies by the former belongs to man ;
by the latter, to the brutes. To the latter we ought never
to have recourse, but when all* hopes of success by the
former are proved to be unavailing." If in every minute
particular, an entire coincidence of sentiment and inte-
rest cannot take place ; concessions, in the course of a
negotiation, may be made on both sides; and, in this
manner^ a satisfactory adjustment of every difference
may be effectuated.

>» De oS L 1. 0.11,

LECTURES ON LAW. MS

If the parties themselves, notwithstanding their peace-
ful and proper inclinations, cannot finally agree upon the
t^'ms, according to which the difference should be adjust-

m

ed i those terms may, in many instances, be arranged and
settled by the kind and benevolent mediation of a com-
mon iriend* Delicate, indeed, but highly useful is the
office of a mediator. Address, prudence, a winning
smoothness, but, above all, a most strict impartiality are
the rare qualifications, which he ought to possess. Pos-
sessing these, he will favour what is due to justice and
right ; but remembering, at the same time, that his office
is to conciliate, and not to judge, his leading effort will
•be to preserve or to procure peace, and to prevail on him^
who has even justice on his side, to relax something, if
such a relaxation shall be necessary for accomplishing
a purpose so desirable and so humane. In the Alcoran^
it is delivered as an indispensable injunction, that if two
nations of the faithful will go to war, the others shall
interpose and force the aggressor to make satisfaction,
and afterwards lay both under an obligation to live, for
the future, in peace and friendship. ^

If, unfortunately, neither negotiation nor friendly in-
terposition of disinterested and benevolent powers shall
prove effectual, for determining a controversy between
two nations ; there is another method^ remaining^ by
which mutual irritation and, much more, dreadful extre-
mities may be prevented between those, who have no
common judge upon earth, to whom they can appeal.
This method is, to refer the matter in dispute to the
award of arbitrators.

This mode of decision has been embraced by nations,
the most powerful fuid the most wise. When the Athe-

c PufF. 556. b. 5. c. 13. s, 7.

5M I.BCTVftE8 OK LAW.

Hums and the citiEeiM of Megara htA a dispute eoneere*
ing the property of theitlandof Salamk, five Lacedemo-
niaa umpires were chosen to settle their omtested dahns.
Some of the Italian states, in the earfy ages of Roasey
submitted their controversies to the detennination of the
Romans. The Romans themselves, haughty and domi«
nesting as they were, and proud of the chaifact^^r dthellart
miperbo9y proposed to the Samnites, that the subject of
their contention should be referred to the arbitraticm of
their common fiiends and allies. ^ The Druids, those
revered ministers of a mysterious superstition, were &e
umpires between nations at war, and frequently brought
matters to an accommodation, when the beSSgerent
powers were on the very instant of an engagement. ^* It
is cruel and detestable,'' says Thucydides, ^^ to treat him
as an enemy, who is willing to submit his case to an
arbitration."*

In all their alliances with one another, and even ia
those, which they have formed with the neighbouring
powers, the Swiss have used the wise precaution to ascer-
tain, beforehand, the manner, in which their differences
should be left to the award of arbitrators, in case it should
prove impracticable to adjust them upon amicable terms.
This prudent and judicious policy has contributed, in no
small degree, to maintain the Helvetian republick in that
flourishing state, which has secured its liberty, and ren«
dered it respectable over all Europe. '

When the sentence of the arbitrators is given, it
Ought to be obeyed ; unless it be flagrandy partial, ma*,
nifestly unjust, or clearly beyond the powers given by

^ Liv. 1. a. c S3. « Gro. 486. 4ar. '^ 1PI|»|^ ^. s. 3S9.

* the »i;dmu8sion« If the awnrd is upon the veiy point
disputed, it can never be manifestly unjust, since it has
been rendered doubtful by the dissension of the parties.

It has been the opinion of some very respectable and
wtSk Informed writers, that k ifnould be highly convenl*
ent, and even somewhat necessary, that congresses of a
number of states should foe held, in which the differences
of contending parties might be determined by those al-
together disinterested in them ^ and in which^ likewise,
flome effectual means might be devised and carried into ,
execution, for compelling nations at war to conclude a
peace upon fair and equitable condkions« In the course
of the present century, two general congresses have been
held in Europe — one at Cambray ; the other at Soisaons:
bu|C they were nothing more than pompoua farces, acted,
with great parade, by those, who wished to appear soli-
citous for an accommodation, but who, in fact, were
little solicitous to promote it. '

If justice cannot be obtained in any of the peaceful
modes aboveno^ntioned ; a nation has then a right to do
itself justice* But even this ought to be done, when it
€:an possibly be done, without proceeding to the last dire*
iiil necessity of commencing a war» Reprisals may be
made. If one nadon has got into^ its possession what
belongs to another, and will not restore it ; if it refuses
to' pay a jifst debt, or to nmke reparation for an injiury ;
that other nation may seize property belonging to the

• first, may apply it for its own benefit, in discharge of
what is due, together with interest and damages ; or it
nmy ho^d the property in pledge, until satisfaction be
made.

■

s Vat b. 3. s. 830.

368 LECTURES ON LAW.

The subject of reprisals is so delicate and interefiting;
that the nature and the extent of the right to make tbem
deserve a careful and accurate investigation.

We have already seen,^ that a nation is to be consi-
dered as a moral person, having an understanding and
will peculiar to itself : as such it is considered by the
law of nations. The consequence necessarity is, that
every act of this moral or collective person must, in t^e
view of that law, be the concurrent act of its several
members.

From the same principles, the property of each of
the members must, with regard to other states, be deem-
ed the property of the whole nation. In some degree,^
this isy in truth, the case ; because the nation has power
over the riches of the citizens ; and because those riches
form a part of the national wealth. All those/ who
compose a nation, making, in the consideration of fo*
reign states, one whole, or one single person ; all their
property must be considered as the property of that sin-
gle person. It is in the power of a nation to establish,
among its citizens, a community of goods ,* but whether
this is done, or is not done, the separate property of
those citizens can neither be known nor discriminated
by other states. The unavoidable result is, that, if onfe
nation has a right to any part of the goods of another,
it has a right to the goods of its citizens, till the right
be satisfied or discharged. The unavoidable result,
again, is, that when it is justifiable to make reprisals^
they may be made on the property of any of the citi-
zens^ as well as on that of the nation. From this rule>

^ Ante p.3b4.S05.

lECTURES ON LAW. 369

one exception has been made, and deserves to be esta-
blished. This exception is made in favour of a deposit
trusted to the faith of the nation, which has a right to
make reprisals. This deposit has been made only in con-
sequence of the reliance, which the owner had on this
faith : this faith ought to be respected, even in the case
of an open and declared war. For this reason, in
France, in England, and in some other countries of
Europe, the money, which hostile foreigners have placed
in the publick. funds, has been considered as sacred from
the rights of reprisals, and even of war.

He who, for the injustice done by a nation, makes
reprisals upon the property of its citizens indiscrimi-
nately, cannot be accused of seizing the property of one
person in order to satisfy the debt of another. It is a
demand against the state, to the discharge of which
every citizen is bound to contribute his just proportion*
It is the duty and business of the nation to provide, that
those citizens, upon whom the reprisals fall immediate*
ly, should be indemnified for every thing beyond that
share, which, on a fair assessment, they ought to pay.
The nation ought to go farther : if the reprisals have
been occasioned originally by the injustice or violence of
some of its members ; those members should be com-
pelled to make satisfaction for every loss, which has
arisen from their conduct.

Though the property of the private citizens, from
the nature and the necessity of the case, must, in many,
perhaps, in most instances, be considered by foreign
states as liable for their demands against the nation ; yet
where publick property can be known and certainly dis-
tinguished, it is unquestionably proper, that such pro-

VOL. I. 3 b
LECTURES ON LAW.

petty should, in the first place, be the selected object of
reprisals, if to reprisals it be easily or conveniently ac-
cessible. The principles of humanity and the dictates
of magnanimity suggest, with equal force, the reason-
ableness and propriety of this discrimination, whenever
it can be made.

As the property of a nation, or of the citizens of a^
nation, may be seized by reprisals, in order to compel it
to do justice j so, on some occasions, the citizens them-
selves may be seized, in consequence of the same prin-
ciples, and may be detained until full satisfaction has
been received. This mode of proceeding was known
among the Grecians by a name, which may be literally
translated mancatching ; A^fi^^xn^^m. At Athens, the law
permitted the relations of him, who had been assassinated
in a foreign country, to apprehend three persons qf that
country, suid detain them, till the assassin was pun-
ished or delivered up.

In making reprisals, three precautions should be in-
violably observed. 1. They ought not to be made with-
out the authority of the nation. Though reprisals are
not war ; and though their proper use is to prevent war ;
yet they approach to a war, and are often followed by
one. They are, therefore, proceedings of too much
publick moment, to be carried on under the direction
and at the discretion of individuals ; probably, of indi-
viduals immediately and particularly interested in them.
In all civilized countries, therefore, it is the unvaried
practice, ;that when a citizen considers himself as injured
by a forcim state, be applies to the sovereign power of
his nation for permission to make reprisals. 2. Reprisals
ought to be made only for a demand, which is both just

L£CTVR£S ON LAW. 371

/

and certain. If it be ddubtful or unliquidated, the first
application should be for such steps as may be necessary
to ascertain its reasonableness and its extent. 3. The
reprisals should be in a due proportion to the demand.
General reprisals, the grand pensionary De Wit used to
say, wqre scarcely to be distinguished from an open war.

We have now seen that the citizens, in their persons
and in their fortunes, may be accountable for the con-
duct of the nation : so, on the other hand, the nation
may sometimes be accountable for the conduct of its
private citizens. »

The state should protect the citizen, should defend
him from injury, and should procure reparation for in-
juries which he has sustained. So, likewise, the nation
should not suffer its citizens to commit injuries against
the citizens of other states ; it ought to disclaim the
conduct of such as offer injuries 5 and ought to compel
or to give satisfaction for the injuries which have beetf
" offered.

It is impossible, however, that, even in the best re-
gulated state, the government should be able to super-
intend the whole conduct of all the citizens, and to re-
strain them within the precise bounds of duty and obe-
dience : it would be unjust, therefore, to impute to the
tiatidti, or to the government, all the faults or offences,
which its members may commit. Hence it does not ne-
cessarily follow, that one has received an injury from 1
nation, merely because he has receive& an injury from
a citizen belonging to that nation. , To a whole state,
the follies, the injuries, or the crimes of a particular
person ought not to be immediately ascribed : in every

3/2^ LECTURES ON LAW-

>*8tate, wicke(^ and disorderly citizens jpre onhappily to be
found: let such be held responsible for the conse-
quences of their crimes and disorders.

«

This doctrine is certainly reasonable and just ; but if
a nation wishes not to be involved in the punishment of
her citizens, she should sedulously avoid the impropriety
and the offence of becoming an accomplice in their inju-
ries and crimes. In their injuries and crimes she becomes
an accomplice, when she approves or ratifies them, and
when she affords protection and security to those, wha
have committed them. In such cases, the nation may
justly be considered as even the author, and the citizens
as only the instrunients, of the wrong or outrage which
has been done.

When the offending citizen escapes into his own coun^
try, his nation should oblige him to repair the damage, if
reparation can be made ; should punish him according to
tjje measure of his offence ; or, when the nature and the
circumstances of the case require it, deliver him up to the
offended state, to meet his doom there. This is frequently
done with regard to atrocious crimes, such as are equally
contrary to the laws and the safety of all nations.

i

In states, which are m9St strictly connected by friend-
ship and good neighbourhood, they go farther still. Even.
with regard to common injuries, which are prosecuted
civilly, whether for reparation of damage, or for a slight
civil punishment, the citizens of two neighbouring states
are reciprocally compelled to appear before the magistrate
of the country, in which they are accused of having
offended. On a requisition of this magistrate, which is
called a letter rogatory, they are cited judicially, apd

LECTURES ON LAW. 3f$

impelled by their own proper magistrates to appear*
" An admirable institution V^ exclaiqis Vattel/ in a tone
of admiration, ^^ by which many neighbouring states live
together in peace and harmony, and seem to form bu^
one and the same commonwealth." iThis institution is in
force through all Switzerland.

If we could restrsun, would it be proper to restrain
the pleasing and animating reflection, that even the mo9|:
admired institutions of Europe are improved, while they
are adopted t^y the United States i For the trial and
punishment of every kind of offence, prosecuted crimi-
nally, and, th^efore, on common law principles, locally^
the following provision is made in pur national constitu?
tion.^ " A person charged, in any state, with treason,
felony, or other crime, who shall flee from justice, and
be found in another state, shall, on demand of the execu-
tive authority of the state from which he fled, be deliver-
ed up, to be removed to the state, having jurisdiction of
the crime." In civil causes of a transitory nature, no
such provision is necessary ; but a much better one is
made. In Switzerland, controversies depending between
citizens of di£Perent states must be decided by the magis#
trates of a state, of which one party, but not the other, is
a citizen. But, in the United States, for controversies
depending between citizens of two different states, a
tribunal is formed and established, impartial, and equally
independent of both.

The foregoing remarks exhibit, in a very striking

point of view, the numerous, the near, and the important

relations, by which states and the members of states may

«

i B. 2. 8. re. J Art. 4. s. 2.

3/4 l£CTt7RES ON LAW.

be connected together. We here discover the xniich
famed institutions of Alfred the Great, extended on a
national scale. In the great society of nations, we see
each citizen bound for the good behaviour of all, and all
bound for the good behaviour of each. As the princi-
ples of society, humanity, benevolence, and liberality
shall become more and more regarded and cultivated,
the rights and duties of diiFerent nations, and of the citi-
zens of different nations, will become more and more
studied, and will be better and better practised and
observed. In this study, the present century has wit-
nessed great and manifest improvements. In this study
all men are interested : it is rich in delight : it is inesti-
mable in importance : its maxims should be known by
every citizen of every free state.

The relations existing between different states and the
citizens of different states, and the rights and duties
arising from those relations, form a constituent part of
the common law. In that country, from which the
common law has been brought, the law of nations has
always been most respectfully and attentively adopted
and regarded by the municipal tribunals, in all matters,
concerning which it is proper to have recourse to that
rule of decision. The law of nations, in its full extent,
is a part.of the law of England. ^ The infractions of that
law form a portion of her code of criminal jurisprudence.
In civil transactions between the citizens of different
states, that law has, in England, been received in its most
ample latitude.

One branch of that law, which, since the extension
of commerce, and the frequent and liberal intercourse

^ 3. Burr. 1481.

LECTURES ON LAW* 37S

between different nations, has become of pecaliar impor«
tance, is called the law of merchants. This system of
law has been admitted to decide controversies concerning
bills of exchange, policies of insurance, and other mer-
cantile transactions, both where citizens of different
states, and where citizens of the same state only, have
been interested in the event/ This system has, of late
years, been greatly elucidated, and reduced to rational
and solid principles, by a series of adjudications, for
which the commercial world is much indebted to a cele-
brated judge, long famed for his comprehensive talents
and luminous learning in general jurisprudence.

Another branch of the law of nations, which has
also become peculiarly important by the extension of
commerce, is the law maritime. In a cause depending
in the court of king's bench in England, and tried at one
of the assizes, my Lord Mansfield, the great judge to
whom allusion has been just now made, was desirous to
have a case made of it for solemn adjudication ; not be-
cause he himself entertained g^eat doubts concerning it;
but in order to settle the point, on which it turned, more
deliberately, solemnly, and notoriously ; as it was of an
extensive nature ; and especially as the maritime law is
not the law of a particular country, but the general law
of nations : non erit alia lex Romse, alia Athenis ; alia
nunc, alia posthac ; sed et apud omnes gentes et omni
tempore, una eademque lex obtinebit. "^ ^

^ In commercial cases, all nations ought to have their laws con-
formable to each other. Fides servanda est ; simplicitas juris gen-
tium prsvaleat 3. Burr. 1673.

» 2. Burr. 887.

376 LECTtrRES ON LAW.

In the plan of my lectures, I proposed ai question, the
greatness of which is selfevident — How far, on the prin-
ciples of the confederation, does the law of nations
become the municipal law of die United States ? I men-
tioned, that it would be unwise, at that time, to hint at
an answer. An answer I mean not to give even now:
but I deem it highly proper now to state the nature, the
extent, and the importance 6f the question. It points to
a course new and unexplored.

We have seen the divine origin ; we have seen the
amazing extent ; we have seen the uncommon magnitude'
of the law of nations : we have, in part, seen, likewise,
how ineffective the execution of that law, under human
authority, has hitherto been.

Amicable agreement between parties in controversy
has been recommended, and recommended with great
propriety, where the recommendation can take effect:
but controversy, which has arisen, and which, from the
very supposition of the case, subsists between the par-
ties, is certainly not the most natural guide to lead to
an amicable accommodation. The mediation of a disin-
terested and * benevolent power has been recommended
likewise: but this mediation, though it enhances the
nierit and displays the beauty of the candid, the peace-
ful, and the disinterested virtues, affords no reasonable
security, that the exertion of those virtues will be accom-
panied with the wished for effect. To arbitration
recourse has been advised: but to the institution of arbi-
trators, the previous consent of the parties in controversy
is requisite : and how, against the unwilling, is the award
of the arbitrators to be enforced ?

LECTURES ON LAW. 377

What is next to be done ? The same disposition or
the same mistake, which, on one of the sides, must
have given birth to the controversy, will probably com-
municate to it vigour and perseverance. Nay, that dis-
'agreement of mind between the parties, which must
liave taktn place when the controversy commenced, is
likely to be increased, instead of being diminished, by
the frequent, numerous, and mutual irritations, which
wiH unavoidably haj^pen nn. the prosecution of it. All
the tnodes of adjustment, which have been hitherto men-
tioned, prefsuppose tSie recondliation of irritated minds.
BuEt must liie peacefhl adjustment of controversies
bet^iveen states^^an adjustment so salutary and so neces-
saiy to the human race— depend on events so very
precarious, so very improbable? Must the alternatives
in disputes and differences between the dignified assem-
blages of men, known by the name of nations, be the
same, which are the prerogatives of sayages in the rudest
and most deformed state of society — voluntary accom-
modation, or open war, or violent reprisals, inferiour,
^ki odium, only to war ? Individuals unite in civil society^
and' instkute judges with authority to decide, and with
authority also to carry their decisions into full and ade-
quate execution, that justice may be done and war may
be prevented. Are states too wise or too proud to
receive a lesson from individuals f Is the idea of a com-
mon judge between nation?, less admissible than thfit of
a common judge between men f If admissible in idea,
would it not be desirable to have an opportunity of tr}'ing
whether the idea may not be reduced to practice ? To
return to the original-question— -has of has not our nation-
al constitution given us an opportunity of making this
great ^nd interesting trial ?

VOL. I. 3 c

dfS LECTU&Et OV. LAV. -

' Let U8 turn our most scnitinizing attention to llie
/utu^tion, in which, on the principles of that syfitem, the
states and the people^ composing the American Uoicm,
stand with regard to one another; the sitiiation, in lel^ieli
they stand with regard to foreign nations $ and the situ-
ation, in wUch they stand with regard to the g^venm^it
of the United States.

With regard to one another, they hm^^ by ordatntng
9Xkd e8iabli3hing the national constitution, isngaged to
^^ form a more perfect union," *^ to ensm'e domastick
tranquillity," ^^ to esuAlish justice:" " dieyliave engajgeA
^^ that the citizens of each state shall be entitled to all pi[i«
vileges and immunities of citizens in the several states^" ^
they have engaged that no state shall entier iotQ ^^ Mf
(reaty, alliance, or confederation ;" ^ ^^ nor^ witboiit tl^
consent of congress, into any agreement ^r cwtpaiet wijdl
another state*" ^

With regard to foreigii nations, the statesi^ ceRapQisiAg
the American Union, have made an engageineat prectsel?ff
in the terms of the last mentioned engagenseiit, whidt
they have made widi regard to one another^^HabsokttcijF
to enter into no treaty, alliance, or confedertttson with
foreign nations ; and to enter into no agreement or con^
pact with them, unless with the cbnsent of coAgress«'

With regard to the government of the United States^
they have engaged that the judicial power of the United
States shall extend ^^ to conuroversies between two or
more states; between a state and the citizens of aaothtf

•» Preanib. <> Art 4. s. 2. - P Artl.s..lO.

^ Ibid. f Ibid.

LECTtTRES ON LAW. 3^9

«tat« ; between citizens of different states ; Between citi-
zens of tte same state claiming lands under grants of
<Mferent states ; and between a state, or the citizens
thereof, and foreign states, cidzens, or subjects."*

m

The law of nations respecting treaties, alliances, and
confederations must be thrown entirety out of the ques*
tion : these are absolutely interdicted.

The law of nations respecting agreements and com*
pacta betWeeti two or more states ; between a state and
the ekizens of another state ; between citizens of dif-
ferent states ; between citizens of the same state claiming
lands under gtants of different states ; and between a
state, or die citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens,
or stibjects, will still be applicable, as before the national
constitutioii was established, to controversies arising in
ail diose diffsrent enumerated cases*

laaH those different enumerated cases, the tribunals
of the United States have judicial authority to decide.
By what law sbsdl their decisions be governed ? Before
l3ie estsd>lishment of the national -government, controver-
aies happening in^ those enumerated cases, if determined
Sit all, must have been determined by die principles
and rules of the law of nations. But before that establish-
ment, there was no power to determine them judicially
by any law.

- /

We have \already seen that, in England, the 'courts
ef eottimon law, in cases, to which the law of nations,
and particularly in cases, to which one great branch of it,

> Art.S.s.^«

580 LfiCTUBES OH LAW*

the law of merchants is apidicable, hav^ laade appro^edT
Application of that law^ and jbave received it, mitsfiiUeat
extent, as a part of the law iA £aglai»d« Should a siioi*
lar conduct be observed by the tribnnafe of the UialiBd
Sute% in the numerous and very important caaes, to
which the national constitution extends their judickL
authority ?

If a similar conduct ought to be observed by tbase
tribunals; what an immense improvement has takes
place in the application, and administration pf the law of
nations ! Hitherto that great law has been lyyplied and
administered by the force or .by the pleasure of itie parties
in controversy:, in the United States, k can now be.
applied and administered by impartial, independent, and
efficient, though peaceful authority.

This deduction, if. properly founded, places thegovem-
ment of the United States in an aspect, new, indeed, but
very conspicuous. It is vested with the exalted power ,
of administering judicially the law. of nations^ which we
have formerly seen to be the law of J^overeigns.

It has been already observed, that the maxisss of this
law ought to be known by every citizen of every free
state. Reasons, and very sufficient ones,^ were suggested,
why this should be the case. A new reason, striking
and illustrious, now appears, why the maxima of this law
ought to be particularly known and studied by every
citizen of the United States. To every citizen of the
United States, this law is not only a rule of conduct, but
may be a rule of decision. As judges and as jurors, the
administration of this law is, in many important instances^
committed to their care.

LECTURS8 ON LAW.
What a beftutiful and magnificent prospect of govern-
ment 18 Aow opened before you ! The shiices of discord,
devastation, and war ar^' shut: those of harmony ^ im-
provement, and happiness are opened! On earth there is
f^Lce and good will towards men ! On contemplating
such a prospect, though only by the eye of a sublime
imagination, well might the ardent and elevated Henry
address the congenial ardour and elevation of Elizabeth —
O most excellent and rare enterprise-*-Thought rather
ib»n huiixan !

To usdiis prospect is realized by happy experience:
howthank&d oogbt we, to be in enjoying it ! how zealous ,
ahould we be to secure it to ourselves and to our latest
po^erity I how anxious should we be to extend its exam-
ple, its influence, and its advantages to the remotest
regions of the habitable globe !

^ /

i

CHAPTER X.

^mm

OF GOVERNMENT.

/

W E have alrt ady seen, that society may exist without*.
civil government : indeed, if we would think and reason
with accuracy on the subject, we shall necessarily be led
to conud^r, in our contemplation, the formation of so*
ciety as preexistent to the formation of those regula-»
tions, by which the society mean, that their conduct
should be influenced and directed.

It is necessary that this distinction be plainly made,
and clearly understood. It has been controverted by
some : anjnattention to it has produced, in the minds of
others, practical inferences, which are both ill founded
and dangerous. A change of government has been view*
ed as a desperate event, as an object of the most terrifick
aspect; because it has been thought, that government
could not be changed, without tearing up the very foun^

384 ^ECTV&SS OV hAW. ,

dationa of the social estahUshment. It ha$ boen masp^
posed, that, in a transition from one govemmei^ to aiao-
ther, the body making it n^ust be dissolved; that^VAry
thin^ must be reduced to a itate of nature ; and that the
rights^ ^d obligations of the socie^ must be lost a»d
discharged.

In many parts of the world, iiideed, the idea of re-
volutions in government is, by a mournful and in^sso-
luble association, connected with die idea of wars^. a^d
of all the calamities attendant on wars. ^ But joyfiil
experience teaches us, in the United States, to view
them in a very different ^ and much tnore agreeable
light — ^to consider them only as progressive «teps io Im-
proving the knowledge of government, and increasing
the happiness of society and mankind.

It is true, that institutions^ which depend on the form
•or structure of the preceding government, must fall,
when that form or structure is taken away, fiutesta-
Uishments, whpse foundations rest on the society itsdlf,
cannot be overturned by any alteraticm of the govern-
ment, which the society can make* The acts and com-
pacts which form the political association, are very- dif-
ferent from those by which the associated body, when
formed, may choose to maintain and regulate itself.

But though,* with|^t government, .society ntiay ex-
ist ; yet it must be admitted, that, without government,
society, in the present state of things, cannot flourish ;

* Changes in course of government are looked at as uncouth
motions of the celestial bodies, portending ^dgments or diss^-
tion. Bac. on Gov. 7^

LECTURES OK LAW. SB5

4iir less, can it reach petfection. In a state of nature, it
ifi true, any one individual may act uncontrolled by
ediers ; but it is equally true, that, in such a state, every
other individual may act uncontrolled by him. Amidst
Ais universal independence, the dissensions and animo^
sities between the interfering members of the society,
would be numerous and .uagovernfdble. The conse*
^uenc^e would be, that each member, m such a natural
«tate, would enjoy less liberty, and suffer more inter-
ruption and inconvenience, than he would under a civil
'government.

Again ; it is true, that, by the fundamental laws of
society, obedience is stipulated on the part of the mem-
bers, and protection is stipulated on the part of the body.
But the modes, and extent, and particular objects of
Ats obedience, and the modes, and extent, and particu-
lar mstruments of this protection, are all equally unas-
certained. Precisibn tmd certainty in these points, so
important to the peace smd order of society, can be ob-
tained only by a system of government. In addition,
therefore, to the rules, which necessarily enter into the
formation of society, other rules — ^those, which com-
pose government— have, been gradually introduced into
every community, which has attained any consideral^le
xtegree of improvement.^

How the different governments, which have succes-
sively appe^u^d in the different parts of the world, be-
gan; on what principles they were originally formed;

^ Bine imperio, nee domus nlla, nee civitas, nee gens, nee'
r4Kiinimim vmiv^vom genus stare, nec'rerum natura omnis, nee
dfene.muDdiisiifftQBt. Clc.deli^a3.c.l.
VOL. I. 3.j>

aa6 LECTURES ON LAW.

what share jp their formation should be asmbed to stva^
tagem, what to force^ what to necessi^, what to coove*
niency, what to wisdom, what to patriotbm— -all tfaefte
are questions, which would employ^ and the answors ta
which would gratify curiosity t some of them would-
convey much pleasure and instruction: but, with re*
gard to many of them, complete information cannot be
obtained ; and if it could, it would not be accQmpuiied'
X with a proportioned degree of satisfaction. The origin
of many governments is obliterated or obscured by tbsr
impressions of all-c(HToding time. Some excepti^w*
however, there are ; and of those exceptions, some de*-
serve to be considered with careful and patient attention :
they contain matter of wise example, or of prudent
caution.

From ancient history I select one instance, die pai^
ticulars of which are transmitted to \i8 with a conudera^
ble degree of accuracy and minuteness. The Medea
orig^ally were induded in the great empire of Assjrriax
from this empire they separated themselves by a success
ful revolt. After their separation, they continued, lor
some time, without any established form of government
— rin a state of self .command, as the expression used
by Herodotus denotes* Of this state, tl^y soon begioi
to experience the infelicities : injuries were committed*
controversies arose f dissensions took place : there was
no setded or acknowledged authority to repress animo-
sities, to determine disputes, or to order lepamion i!(r
injustice that had been done.

One man there was, whose integrity and wisdom
taught his countrymen to revere him, and to apply to
him as the judge and arbiter of their differences. This

LECTURES ON LAW, 387

I

wai the famed Dejoces^ His decisions were equitable ;
bm the execution of them depended on the pleasure of
the parties, against whom they were made; Influence,
however, and reputation supplied, in some tolerable
-degree, the place of regular and established authority ;
and the Af edes confided and acquiesced in the prudence
amd justice of Dejoees.

Stimulated by latent principles of ambition, or direct-
ed by the admonitions of sagacity, Dejoces becaine dis-
satisfied with the situatioii, in which he stood.' Perhaps
.he wisely foresaw, that unless he possessed authority at
the same time that he deserved confidence, he could not
be long safe in his own person, or useful to his fellow
citizens. Another supposition there is likewise reason
to make. Perhaps his ambition suggested to him, that
the influence, which he already enjoyed, might, by an
easy and a certain transition, be converted into power';
that the voluntary acquiescence under his awards might
be improved into implicit submission to his edicts ; and
that the respected judge might become die splendid
nvonarch of Media. Whatever his motives were, we
know what was their result. He would not exercise any
longer the confidential office of administering justice
among the Medes ; but had recourse to a retired lifcy.
under the pretence, that he could no longer support the
excessive fatigue of the business of others ; and that it
was now become absolutely necessary for him to devote
his attention to the management of his own afiairs.

The consequence, which was naturally expected,
naturally followed. The disorders, which the character
and influence of Dejoces had repressed, returned, upon
his retirement, with redoubled violence ; and increased

$BS LECTURES ON LAW«

to such a degree, that the Medes were obliged to c€ATene
a general council of the nation, in order to deliberate
upon the proper methods of finding and applying a
remedy to the publick miseries and dissensions. The
expedient adopted by the general council was, that a king
should be elected, who should have power to restrain the
rage, of violence, and to make laws for the government of
the nation. When it was determined to elect a king ;
diere was no hesitation concerning the peiBon, on whom
the election should fall. With common consent, Dejocet
was elected king of Media. ^

With regard to. the first establishment of civil govern*
ment, it is probable, that the maintenance of publick
peace and the promotion of publick happiness were the
ends originally proposed by the people, in many instances.
It is certain, that, in every instance, they were the ends^
which by all ought to have been proposed and proseputed
too. One thing is unquestionaUe, and this, indeed, is
all that is necessary to be known upon the subject ; that
every man must have had his own advantage and happi*
ness in view ; and must have endeavoured, as much as
possible, to preserve his natural liberty. This is founded
on the constitution of numkind ; and this invincible prin«
ciple would operate with greater force on the first forma*
tion of government, than after it was fully established;
for under established governments, the ni^ural love o^
liberty is frequently counteracted by education, by pie-
judice, by interest, by ambition. Of this melancholy, but
undeniable truth, the history of man and of government
produces too many striking examples. The dc^ieneracy
^ government, and the consequott degenera^ of tbe^

Htoti».ac3. a.Geg.0r.Iiaws.«.9.

LECTURES ON LAW. , $99

citizens, have beea fruitful topicks of contemplation and
complaint, in almost eyexy age and country.

It is a question rather of cariosity than of utility—
what kind of government is the most ancient { The dif«
ferent kinds have different advocates in favour of their
antiquitjr ; and their different hj^theses are supported
with much ingenuity and zeal. The ardour of polemical
disquisition, however, upon this subject, might have been
greatly softened by the obvious reflection, that it by no
means follows, that the kind of government which is
oldest, is the kind which is also best. That form which
was most simple, and not that form which was most per*
feet, would, in all probability, attract the attention, and
determine the choice, . of a rude and inexperienced
society. In many parts of the world, the science of
government is . even yet in a state of nonage : shall its
first be deemed its most finished movements i

The most simple form of government is that of mo-
narchy : reasonaUe cpnjecture, therefore, would lead us
to presume, that this. form is the most ancient* This
presumption of reason is confirmed by the information
of history, both sacred and profane. The most ancient
nations mentioned by the inspired historian and legislator
of the Hebrews — ^for instance, the Egyptians, the BAy*
loQJans, the Assjrrians — were all under the government
of kings. Homer, the true original of his own Ulysses^
who knew societies as well as men, seems scarcely to
have seen, onr heard, or even imagined any other species
of government, than that which was monarchical. The
mcM famous states of antiquity, Athens and Rome, were
monarchies at their first commencement. The history
of China is said to reach a period of antiqui^r very

390 » LECTURES OH LAD^,

remote; at the remotest period, monarchy was tke form
of government which prevailed in it«

But though monarchy is the most ancient form of
^vemment ; monarchs were, at first, neither herectidoy
nor despotick. We have seen that D'ejoces, the first
monarch of Media, became a king by election. Crowns^
in general, were originally elective. , ,True, indeed, it is,
that, from causes obvious and easy to be assigned, the
office, which, at first, was elective, became afterwards
hereditary.

The domii^ions of the first monarchs were far from
being extensive. In the days x>f Abraham, there were
five kings in the single Valley of Sodom. The kings
defeated by Joshua in Palestine were thirty one in num«
ber. The different provinces, which, at present, compose
the empire of China, formed anciently so many separate
monarchies. ^^ The ancient Britons/' says Bacon in his
Discourses on Government, * " had many chiefs in a little
room ; whom the Romans called kings, fen: the greater
renown df their empire." For many ages, Gireece was
divided into a vast number of small and kiconsiderable
kingdoms.

re

The authority of those ancient monarchs was not
more extensive than their dominions. It i^pears f is^m
many monuments, that, by the constitutions of die fir^
kingdoms, the people had a great share in the govern-
ment. Affairs of importance were debated and deter-
mined in the general assemblies of the nations* ^ ^^ De
majoribus omnes consultant," says Tacitus' of the ancient

^ P. 1. e 1. Go|^.Or.I«aw8. li. ' De tnor. Gtrm. e. U

LECTURES ON LAW.
'he first kings were, indeed, properly no
iudges, who had no power to inflict puniish-
11* own authority, and without the consent of
Hence the poet Hesiod says, that the muses
the art of persuasion, that they may engage
lo submit to their decisions, for which end
liiaced in that exalted station.' ^^ Principes
k^us vicosque reddunt,'* says Tacitus in the
... aow cited. 1^

pinion,'^ says Cicero,^ ^^ it was not among

'nly, as Herodotus informs us ; but it was

)wn ancestors likewise, that kings of good

^re chosen, in order that the administration

^Mght be enjoyed. For when the poor were

'^y the rich, they fled for relief to some one,

*■ in virtue, who would protect the weak from

"^nd would dispense equal law to the high and

If they could obtain this from the mouth of

ci good man, they were satisfied ; but^ as they

disappointed in this reasonable demand, they

ards, recourse to general law, which spoke

€ to aU."

course of things in other nations, was similar to
took place in Media and in Rome. ^^ At first,'^
xellent Hooker, ^^ when some. kind of regiment
approved; it may be, diat nothing was, then,
Lght upon. for the manner of governing; but
^dto their wisdom and discretion, which were
I, by e^qierience^ they found this, for all parts.

Gro. ra n. 53.

h De mor. Germ. c. 2i2.

392 LECTURES OM LAW.

very ineo&venient, so as the thing, which they had devi-
sed for a remedy, did ''but increase the sore, whidi it
should have cured. They saw, that to live by one man's
will, became the cause of all men's misery. Tlus con*
strained them to come unto law, wherein all men might
see dieir duties beforehand, and know the penalties of
transgressing them.''*^

This progress of government and law, we find remark*
ably exemplified in the history of Greece. At first, aB
the Grecian cities were under die government of kings,
not arbitrarily, but agreeaUy to the lawif and custonis of
the country. He was esteemed the best king, nr^o was
die justest and strictest observer of the laws, and who
never departed from die estaUished customs of his kin|R-
dpm. This explains the true meaning of Homer, (who
painted to the life) when he denominated 'kings, ^^nsen,
who distribute justice." These small monarchies, ttms
limited, subsisted for a long time, as, for insta^ioe, Aat of
the Lacedemonians. But, afiterwatnis, som^ kings began
to abuse their power, and to govern according to their
pleasuK, rather ithan according to the laws. This die
Greeks could not endure ; and, therefin-e, s^H^^od die
monarchical form of .government, and established other
kinds of government in its place.

To find out the best kind of government liaa bean
long the celebrated problem in the polidcal worid. fe
order to fumidi some imperfisct materials fe^^tbe aolii-
donof dds very .important inquiry,. let as ofmsider pai
^ivestqpite the quafttifts and prinoi^tta,^byiwhicha fP#d
government ought to be characterized.

J Hooker. b.l. p. ;16.

" LECTURES ON LAW« 393

Men,* friul and imperfect as they, are, most be the
instruments, by which government is administered. But,
in order to guard against the consequences of their frail-
ties and imperfections, one effort, in the contrivance of
the political system, is,, to provide, that, for the offices
and the departments of the state, the wisest and the
best of her citizens be elected. A second effort is, to
communicate to the Qperations of government as great a
share as possiUe of the good, and as small a share ^
possible of the bad propensities of our nature. A third
effort is, to increase, encourage, and strengthen those
^od propensities, and to lessen, discourage, and cor-
rect those bad ones. A fourth effort is, to introduce.
veAo the very form of government, such particular checks
and controls, as to nlake it advantageous even for bad
men to act for the publickgood. When these efforts are
successful, and happily united; dben is accomplish^
what we truly mean, when we speak of a govemknent of
Jaws, and not of men ; then every man does homage to
the laws ; the very least as feeling their care ; the great-
est as not exempted from their power.

What are the qualities in government, necessary for
producing laws, properly designed, properly framed,
and properly enforced ? Goodness should inspire and ani-
mate the intention : wisdom should direct and arrange
the means : power should render the means efficacious,
by canying the laws vigorously into execution. The
more all those qualities prevail in any governments
the ^nearer does that government approach to its per-
fection* * In some kinds of government, one of the
equalities is eminent in undue proportion: in others,
another : (but the best are those, in which all the qua-
lities are happily blended in their operation, and dif-

394 lECTURES OV LAW.

fuse, through the whole society, their mingled imd tem^
pered influence.

We have now taken a general view of government^
and have traced the qualities, which should operate
through the whole : let us descend to a more minute ex*
amination of its different parts : let us view the structure
and properties of each, considered by itself; and also
the mutual dependencies and controls, which each ought
to possess, and to which each ought to be subject, when
considered relatively to others.

The powers of government are usually, and with
propriety, arranged under three great divisions ; the le-^
gislative authority, the executive authority, and the ju-
dicial authority. Let us consider each, as its greatness
deserves to be considered.

The first remark, which I shall make on the stnictnte
of Ae legislative power, is, that it ought to be dioided.
In support of this position, which is, indeed, one of the
most important in both the theory and the practice of
government, many arguments may be advanced. Let
me introduce one, bv the declaration of an admired
judge, whose manly candour must charm ev^ry gene«
rous mind. ^ It is the glory and happiness of our ex-
cellent constitution, that, to prevent any injustice, no
man is concluded by the first judgment ; but that, if ha.
apprehends hinuelf to be aggrieved, he has another
court, to which he may resort for relief. For my
part, I can say, that it is a consideration of gre«t
comfort to me, Aat, if I do err, my judgment is not
conclusive to the par^ ; but my mistake may be recti*
iied, and so no injustice be done." ^ Is less akill r^

^ Str. 565.

xscTiraEs on tAv» 395

qwFed<— should \tBs caution be observed — ^in making
lavs, than in explaining them i Are mistakes less likely
to happen«-*4U'e they less dangerous — ^is it less necessary
to prevent or rectify them, in the former case, than in
Are latter? Which i9 most necessary? to preserve the
stream^, or to. preserve the fountain from becoming
turbid?

But the danger arising from mistakes and .inaccura-
ties is not thi only nor the greatest one, to be apprehend-
md from a single body possessed of legislative power.
It is impossible to ^restrain it in its operations. No other
poweE in government can arrest the proceedings of that
which makes the la^s« Let us suppose, that this single
body, in a lud^ moment, should pass a law to restrain
itself: in the nett moment, an unlucky one, it might
repeal the restraining law. Any mounds, which it might
raise to confine itself, would still be within the sphere of
ks o,wn motion ; and whatever force should impel it,
would necessarily impel those mounds along with it«
.To stop and to check, as well as to produce motion in
this politicial globe, we must possess— what Archimedes
wanted — ^another globe to stand upon.

A single legislature is calculated to unite in it all the
pernicious qualities of ^e different extremes of bad go-
Temment. It produces general weakness,' inactivity^
and confusion ; and these are intermixed with sudden anc^
violent £ts of despotism, injustice, and cruelty*

But I will take the subject a little deeper : it is of the
utmost consequence that it be fully discussed. In pri-
vate life, how often and how fatally are we seduced, by
fmr passions and by our prejudices, from those paths,

396 LECTURES OW LAW.

which would lead us to our true interests ? But tape pas-
sions and prejudices less frequently to be found in pub*
lick bodies, than in individaals ? Are they less powerful?
Do they not become inflamed by mutual imitaticm tad
example ? Will they not, if unrestrained, produce ihe
most mischievous effects? Ye, who are versed in the
science of -human nature — ^ye, who have viewed itinth«
faithful mirrour of history^ — ^tell us, for you know, what
answer should be given to tl^ese questions. Cannof you
point out instances, in which the people have become
die miserable victims of passions, operating upon their
gbvemment without restraint ? Cannot you point out
other instances, in which the violence of one part of the
government has been happily controlled by the constitu-
tional interposition of another part ?

There is not in th,e whole science of politicks a more
solid or a more important maxim than this^— that of all
governments, those are the best, which, by the natural
effect of their constitutions, are frequently renewed or
drawn back to their first principles. When a single legis-
lature is determined to depart from the principles of die
constitution — and its incontroUable power may prompt
the determination — ^there is no constitutional authority
to arrest its progress. It -may proceed, by long and
hasty strides, in violating die constitution, till ntilliitig
but a revolution can stop its career. Far different wifl
the case be, when the legislature consists of two branches.
If one of them should depart, or attempt to depart from
the principles of the constitution ; it will be drawn back
by the other. The very apprehension* of the event will
prevent the departure or the attempt.

* »

In all die most celebrated governments bodi of ancient
and of modem times, we find the legislatures composed

of distmct bodies. Such was that formed at Athens by
Solon. Such was that instituted at Sparta by Lycurgus.
Such was that, which so long flourished at Rome. Ill
our sbter states, their legislatures consist of distinct
bodies of men. Similar, upcm this subject, is the con-
stitution of. the United States. And we can now happily
say, that Pennsylvania no longer exhibits an instance to
the contrary—- that she no longer holds out to view a
beacon to be avoided, instead of an example deserving
imitation*

Thus much I have thought it necessary to say concern-
ing that power of government;, which is intrusted with
the making of the laws. Let us next consider those
powers, which».are intrusted with their execution, and
with the administration of justice under their authority.
Wise and good laws are indeed essential ; but though
thjey are essential, they are so only as means. If we stop
here, all that we have done is nugatory and abortive.
The end is still unattained ; and that can be attained only
when the laws are vigorously and steadily executed ; and
when the administration of justice under them is unbias-
sed and enlightened.

Indeed, if I mistake not, an inferiour proportion of
attention, in this and in most of our sister states, has been
employed al^out these important parts of the political
system. Laws have abounded: their multiplicity has
been often a grievance : but their weak and irregular
execution, and the unwise and unstable administration
of justice, have been subjects of general and well grounded
complaint.

Habits contracted before the late revolution pf the
United States, operate, in the same manner, since that

598 LECTI^RiSB ON tA#«

time, though v<hy material alterations may hsLve takea
place in the objects of their operations.

Before that period, the executive and the judiciisl
powers of government were placed neither in the people^
nor in those, who professed to receive them under the
authority of the people. They were derived from a dif-
ferent and a foreign source t they were regulated by
foreign maxims : they were, directed to foreign putpo*
ses. Need we be surprised, that they were objetts of
aversion and distrust? Need we be surprised, that eveiy
occasion was seized for lessening their influence and
weakening their energy? Oh the other habd, ourasSem^
blies were chosen by ourselves : they were the guardians
of our rights, the objects of oqr con&ience, and the
^chor of our political hopes* Every pother, wMdi
could be placed in them, was thought to be safely placed^
every extension of that power was considered as a^
extension of our own security.

At the revolution, the same -fond predilection,
the same jealou^ dislike, existed and prevailed^ The
executive and the judicial as well as the legislative autho*
rity was now the child of the people ; but, to the two
former, the people behaved like stepmothers. The
legislature-was still discriminated by excessive partiality;
and into its lap, c^rery good and precious gift was pro-
fusely thrown;

Even at this time, people can scarcely devest them-
selves of those opposite prepossessions: lliey still hoM^
when, perhaps, they perceive it not, the language, whidi
expresses them. In observations on this subject, we
hear the legislature mentioned as tlie peopl^^ represent

LXGTVRSS ON LAW* 399

4ttives. TKe distinction, intimated by^ concealed impli-
cation, though probiibly, not avowed upon reflection,
is, that the executive and judicial powers are not connect*
^ ed'with the people by a relation so strong, or near, or
dear.

But it is high time that we should chastise our preju-
dices ; and that we should look upon the different parts
of government with a just and impartial eye. The exe-
cutive and judicial powers are now drawn from the same
source, are now animated by the same principles, and
are now directed to the same ends^ with the legislative
authority : they who execute, and they who administer
the laws, are as much the servants, and therefore as
much die friends of the people, as they who make tl\em*
The character, and interest, and glory of the two former
are as intimately and as necessarily connected with the
happiness and prosperity of the people, as the character,
and interest, and glory of the latter are. Besides ; the
execution of the law, and the administration of justice
vnder the law, bring it home to the fortunes, and farms,
and houses, and business of the people. Ought the exe-
cutive or the judicial magistrates, then, to be considered
I9& foreigners ? ought they to be treated with a chilling
indifference I

Having shown, that, on the principles -of our new
system, jealousies and prejudices concerning the execu-
tive and judicial departments ought to be discarded ;
let us now consider, in what manner those departments
should be formed and constituted* We begin with the
executive department.

The executive as weH as the legislative power ought
to be restrained. But there is a remarkable contrast

400 L£CTU&£S ON LAW..

between the proper modes of restraining thesu The
legislature, in order to be restrained, must be divideiL
The executive power, in order to be restrained, should
be one. Unity in this department is al once a prooiP
and an ingredient of safety and of energy in the opera«
tions of government.

«

The restraints on the legislative authority must, from
its nature, be chiefly internal; that is, they nmst proi-
ceed from some part or division of itself. But the
restraints on the executive power are extemaL These
restraints are applied with greatest cc;rtainty, and with
greatest efficacy, when the object of restraint, is clearly
ascertained. This is best done, when one object only^
distinguished and responsible, is conspocuously held up
to the view and examination of the publick.

In plamung) forming, and arranging laws, delibers^
tion is always becoming, smd always useful. But in the
active scenes of govem^ient, there are emergencies, iii
which the man, as, in other cases, the woman, who
deliberates, is lost. Secrecy may be equally necessary^
as despatch* But, can either secrecjr or despatch be
expected, when, to every en^rprise, and to every step
in. the progress of every enterprise, mutual commsimca*
tion, mutual consultation, and mutual agreement among
men, perhaps of discordant views, of discordant tem-
pers, and of discordant interests, are indispensably
necessary i How much time will. be consumed ! and
when it is consumed ; how little business will be don&!
When the time ia elapsed; when the business is uafiniah-
ed ; when the state is in distress, perhl^>s, on the verge
of destruction ; on whom shall we fix'the blame ? whom
shall we select as the object of punishmrat i

LECTtJItES OH LAW; 401

I

RuwiMis 4>Mensiong are not the only inconveniencea
resultiiig ftotn % numerous eiLecutive body : h is equally
Uabl« to peniioi0tts and intriguing combinations. When
the first take plase^ the publick business Is not done at all :
when ibe last take place, it is done for mean or malicious
pttiposes*

»

. The appointment to offiaes is an important part of the
executive authority. Much of the ease, much of the
reputation, much of the energy, and much of the safety
of. the nation dep^ids on judiciona azid impartial appoint-
menlB. But are impantiality and fine discernment likely
tii( predominate' in a numerous executive body ? In pro-
portion to their own number^ will be the number of their
friends, favouri|;ea» .^and dependents* An office is to be
filled. A ^rson nearly connected, by some of the fore-
going ties, with one of those who are to vote in filling it,
is. ]?ftmod as a candiddte. Hi» patron is under no neces-
sity to take any ps^ particularly responsible, in his
appointment* He may appear evi^n cold and indifferent
on the occasion. Bat he possesses an advantage; the
value of which is well understood in bodies of this kind.
Every member, who gives, on his account, a vote for his
friend, will expect the return of a similar favour on the
first convenient opportunity. In this n&anner, a reciprocal
intercourse of partiality, of interestedness, of favour-
itism, perhaps of venality, is established; and, in no
particular instance, is there a practicability of tracing the
poison to its source. Ignorant, vicious, and prostituted
characters are introduced into office ; and some of those,
who voted, and procured others to vote for them, are the
first and loudest in expressing their astonishment, th^it
the door of admission was ever opened to men of their
infamous description. The suffering people are thus

VOL. I. 3 T

402 J.ECT17RES Oil tXXfm

wounded and bulleted, like Homer's Ayai; in ifi^-dafk ;
and have not evenoSie mekncholy Batisfaclixm^if knotriiig
hy whom the blows are given. Thost who-p^ssd^tiriente
and virtues, which would reflect hofi<|^ mi o#fcie, will he
reluctant to appeiar ad candidates for apponnmeiits. if
they should be brought into view; what weight will
virtue, merit, and tdents for ofiice have, in a balance iield
and poized by partiality, intrigue, aiid4Aicane I

The person who nominates mt makes appoiatn^ei^i to
offices, should be known. His own offieef his own dta*
racter, his own fortune should be responsible. He skoufal
be alike unfettered " and unsheltered by counHeflo^i.
No constittttitaal stalking horse should be.pvo^tided for
him to conceal hb turnings ancfrwiiMtllig^ when they atre
too dark and too crooked to bif exposed to publick view.
Instead of the diihonburable intertourse^ which I haive
already memloned, an inte/eourtfe of a ^er^ USer^nt
kind should be efttabMied-^-^aii imtrcourte of integrkj
tt&d discernment on the part of the magistrate who ap*
points, and of gratitude and coafideoceron the part of the
people, who Will receive the benefit from hie appoiiat^
metits. Appoiiitmeiit^ dtude and sanctioned in this highfy
respectable manner, wiD, like a fragrant and. beneficent
atmosphere, diffuse sweetnesd and gkdness aroundtfaose,
to whom they are giv^n. Modest mi^rit will be beckoned
to, in order to encourage her to come forward. Bare*
faced impudence and unprincipled intrigue will receive
repulse and dissq^pointteent, deservedly their portion.

If a contrary conduct should unfortonatdy be ob*
served — suid^ unf<&rtmiately, a contrary eondnict wiU be
aomettmes observed — it will be known by the citizens^
whose conduct it 1$ t and, if they are not seised with the

:(.£GTUEE8 ON LAW* 403

;Ci»ly 4^«>^B«t incurable in a fr^e government — the
iliatemper of bplUg wanting to tbeina«)ve$-^they will, at
.lik^Mi03(l('gQnai|^'4ecition, take effectual care/that the
jp^^TBon^ w:ho h^s.O];)4^e Bh^mefuUy abuscid their gjenerous
ivad uipu«p&0tiQg confidence, shall nft have it in his
ipower to insult and injure thciQ a second timei by the
T«^fieiUion of such £ui uAgtat^ul rf turn.

^ Th« ol^ervatiohs, whieb I have radicle on the appoint*
Jx^^mp to officfifly will Ofiyly* ^ilii Utile varlatipn, to the
jollieip powers and diitie$ of the #$ecutive dc^panment.

a' Whe« more th^n.one. person ai^ engag^ in the same
.^fttorpris^, S diference of oiunion,.conc^rniil^,the object
er the means* ja p>*impfo1^*We contingency. When the
^fffr^noe takes place. afQOQg those of equM authority,
-wh^re is the umpire. <iO decide? A prevai^ngand unde-
liiided ^W^vpi^^t 49 9enti]iv0i|l, is the inauspicious parent
pf bitt«r md d^te^illi^ed opposi^on in conduct* In busl*
ji^ess, whioh i« Q^erely d^Ubecative, these difier^nces may
be concluded by 41 r^^olution or a vote : fqr, when a vote
is taken, the paajoi^ty h a&c^rtained,, and the business is
.done. Buty in publick enterprises, th$ case is far other*
vf iae. To the «upees$ tf the enterprise, the zealous co-
o^ratiQa of the di^aemung minority is np le^ indispeii«
sable, than thait of the coQsienting majority. Is such
e€K4)emtion to be e:i;peeled i Would it l^e safe to calculate
Ae Tootiofis of government upo« an expectation, indeed^
ao extremely knprohalde i If we build on such a sandy
foufidaUon, will not the superstrueture tumble in pieces^
a^d buiy, uiidejr h^ wdm^ the deareat interests of the
atade ?

If, on the other hand, the executive power of go-
vernment is placed in the hands of one person, who is

4(H LECTtJRBS ON I.AW.

to direct all the subordinate officers of tliat depajtmeftt ;
is there not reason to expect, in his plajis'md cooiduf^
promptitude, activity, firmness, consisteAcf^ and ewr-
gy ? These mark the proceedings of one man ; at leaat,
of one man, fit to be intrusted wilii the managemeut^of
important publick affairs. I^iay we^nofr indulge, at leairt
in imagination, the pleasing prospect, that this one^man
•—the choice of those who are deeply interested in apro*
per choice — will be a man distinguished by his abilities i
Will not those abilities pefnrade.eyerjppartof his adn^
nistration i Will they not diffuse their animatiag infiu-
ence over the most distant comers of the nation ? — ^May
we not further indulge tbe^ pleased imagination in the
agreeable piospect-wn one ^tapce, at least, it is. re-
alized by experience— rthait,4i^ publick eboioe will fall
upon a man. In whom distinguished abilities will be
joined and sublimed by distinguished virtues—on a maa,
who, on the necessary foundation of aiprivate character,
decent, respected, and dignified, wiD build aB the gre^i^,
and honest, and candid qualities, from which, an deva-
ted station derives its most beautiful lustre, and puUick
life its most splendid embellishments i

If these pleasing prospects shtfuld unhappily be blast»
ed by a preposterous choice, and t^ the preposterous
conduct of the magistrate chosen ; stiH, at the next elec-
tion, an effectual jremedy .can be applied to the niischief :
and this remedy will be applied effectuaSiy, unless, as has
been already intimated, the citizens should be wanting
to themselves. For a people wanting to themselves,
there is indeed no remedy in the political dispensary*
From dieir power there is no appeal : to their errour
there is no superiour principle of correction*

LECTURES ON LAlfr^ 405

The third great division of the powers of govern-
ment is the judicial authorfl^. It is sometii|ies consi-
^rcd as a braaoth of the executive power ; but inaccu*
rately. When the decisions of courts of justice are
made, they* must, .it fctruei* be executed ; but the power
•f executing them is ministertal, not judicial. The
judicial authority consists 'in applying, according to the
principles of- right and justice, the constitution and laws
to facts and trattsacttons ^ cases, in 'which the manner
er 'principles- of this ^afiplicafion are disputed by the pari
ties interested in them«

The very existence of a dispute is presumptive evi*
dence, that tho appfieaddn-is' not altogether without in-
tricacy 0t • dificulty. ' WlWh* intricacy or difficulty takes
place in the applicatioti , it ewmot be properly made
without the possession of skill in the science of juris"
prudence, and tte most unbiassed behaviour in the exer-
cise of that skill. Clear heads, therefore, and honest
hearts are essential to good judges.

•

As ^1 controversies in the cominunity respecting life,
liberty, reputation, and property, must be influenced by
their judgihents ; and as their judgments ought to be
calculated not only to do jns^ce^ but also to^i^e gene^
ral satisfaction, to inspire general confidence, and to
tsdte even from disappointed suftera — for in every cause
disappointment must fall on one sifie — ^the slightest pre-
tence of complaint ; ^ they ought to be |>laced in such a
situation, as not only to be, but likewise to appear su-
periour to eirery extrinsick circumstance, which can be

1 Etiam quos contra statuit, acquos placatosqtie deraisit ; sayi
Cicero of Brutus.

405 tf CTUIt^S 0V l;kV^4

.8ti{^)08ed to have the "feiftftllefit operation nfAn 4hetr tut*
derstaiidiiigs or their incljn^ioas. In thfeir saiftriea^'^od
an t^eir offices, they ought to4>e>complet^4Mkpe9d«^s
in odier words, they should be removed fttna* this mmt
distant apprehension of being ^tSiktttd^iih'tiieir judieili
character and rapacity, 4)f any thfey, -excc^ their o^
behaviour and'its consequences. ' - ^

^We are," says a very nensiUe wiiNr on-p^Uticnl
subjects, ^^to look upon all Ae vipit^ftaraMi of govern*
ment as having ultimately no other object or purpose,
but the distribution of jusnce. AH men Are sensible of
the necessity of justice to maintakif eaoe and ord<er ; and
all men are sensible of the nd«c<uiiiy*o£ p£;aee.fuad ^ider
for the maintenance of society** ^ •*^ Tfee fex^^vA wise^
»id equal administration^ the laws," says Mr. Paley^*^
^ forms the first end und blessing of social vnion." itet
how can society be maintained"— how dftn a state expe^
to enjoy peace and order, unless the administration of
justice is able ^nd impartial? Can such an administratioa
be expected, unless the judges can maintain dignified itnd
independent charactersi Can dignity and independence be
expected from jud^t, .wh<» are liable to be tossed alKiut
by every veering gale of politicks, and who can be secured
from destmction, only by desterously swimming ajctog
with every successive tide of party? Is there aotrtason
to fear, that in such a siluation^ the decisions of coolie
would cease to be the voice of law and justice^ 91MI
would become the echo of fraction and vielence?

' #

This is It subject, which most intiniatcly cancen»
every one, who sets the least value upon his own safety^

> •

" 1. Hume's Ess. 35. » 2. Paley«985:

Lie«TUR«S ON hAW4 407

I

«r ikut of hit ' posterity; 0«r fortuB#8, our lives, our
reputations, and our liberties are all liable to be affected
by ihe judgmsnts of the courts.. How distressing and
melanoboly must Ae. reflection be, thait, while judges
Ifeold their salaries only at pleasure, and their commis*
nons only for the. term o& a few years, our liberties^
oar fortunes, our reputations, and our litres may be sa*
erificed to a porty, though we have done nothing to for^
(eit them to the law.

Though the foregoing great powers — ^legislative, ex-
ecutive, and judicial— are all necessary to a good go-
vernment; yet it is of the last importance, that each of
them be preserved distinct, and unmingled, in the exer*
cise of its separate powers, with either or with both of
(Im others, Qere every degree of confusion in the plan
Will produceta corresponding degree of interference, op.
|x>sition, combkiation, or perplexity in its execution.

•

Let us siqppose the legislative and executive powers
united in the same person : can liberty or security be ex^
pected i No* In the character of executive magistrate,
he receives all the power, which, in the character of le*
^idkitor," he thinks proper to give. Maybe not, then— ^
ai^ if he may, will he not then — such is the unde*
€ned' and undefinable charm of power— -enact tyrant
nkal laws to furnish himself with an opportunity
t>f executing them in a tyrannical manner? Liberty
and security in government depend not on the limits,
which the rulers may please to assign to the exercise of
their own powers, but on the boundaries, within which
their powers are circumscribed by the constitution. He
who is continuaOy exposed to the lash of oppression, as
well as he who is immediately under it, cannot be de«>
nominated free.

408 LECTURfeS OK LAW.

Let us suppose the legislative and judicial powers
united : what would be the consequence? The fives-,
liberties, and properties (^ the citizens wo^d be com*
mitted to arbitrary judges, whose decisions woold, m
effect^ be dictated by their own private opinicms, and
would not be governed by any fixed or known princi^es
of law. For Aough, as judges, they might be b6und to
observe those principles ; yet, Proteus*like, they mig^t
immediately assume the form of legislators ; and, in tha^
shape, they might escape from every fetter and obligation
of law.

Let us suppose a union of the eixecutive ^nd judicial
powers : this union might soon be an overbalance for the
legislative authority ; or, if that expression is too strong,
it might certainly prevent or destroy the proper and legi-
timate influences of that authori^. The laiws might be
eluded or perverted ; and Ae execution of them might
become, in the hands of the magistrate or his minions^
an engine of tyranny and injustice* Where and how ia
redress to be obtained i From the legislature i They
make new laws to correct the mischief: but these new
laws are to be executed by the same persons, and will
be executed in the same manner as the formen Will
redress be found in the courts of justice i In those courts,
tlie very persons who were guilty of the oppression in
their administration, sit as judges, to give a sanction to
that oppression by their decrees. Nothing is more to be
dreaded than maxims of law and reasons of state blended
together by judicial authority. Among all the terrible
instruments of arbitrary power, decisions of courts, whet-
ted and guided and impelled by considerations of policy,
cut with the keenest edge, and inflict the deepest and most
deadly wounds.

I.ECTUJl£8 ON LAW* 400

Let us suppose, in the last place, all the three powers
of government to be united in the same mai^ or body of
men : miserable indeed would this case be ! This extent
of misery, however, at least in Europe, is seldom expe-
rienced ; because the power of judging is generally exer-
cised by a separate department. But in Tm-key, where
all the three powers are joined in the Sultan's person,
his slaves are crushed under the insupportable burthen
of oppression and tyranny. In some of the governments
of Italy, these three powers are also united. In such
there is less liberty than in the European monarchies.:
and their governments are obliged to have recourse to
as violent measures to support themselves, as even that
of the Turks. At Venice, where an aristocracy, jealous
and tyrannical, absorbs every power, behold the state
inquisitors, and the lion's mouth, at all times open for the
secret accusations of spies and informers. In what a
situation must the wretched subjects be under such a
government, all the powers of which are leagued, in awful
combmation, against the peace and tranquillity of their
minds!

But further ; each of the great powers of government
shmild be independent as well as distinct. When we say
this ; it is necessary— -since the subject is of primary con-
sequence in the science of government — ^that our meaning
be fully understood, and accurately defined. For this
position, like every other, has its limitations ; and it is
important to ascertain them. '

The independency of each power consists in this, that
its proceedings, and the motives, views, and principles,
which produce those proceedings, should be free from
the remotest influence, direct or indirect, of either of the

VOL. I. 3 G

410 lECTUltKS ON tAW#

Other two powers* But further than this, the indepen*
dency of each power ought i^ot to extend. Its proceed'
ings should be formed without restrsdnt, but, when they
are once formed, they should be subject to ccmtroL

We are now led to discover, that between these three
great powers of government, there ought to be a mutual
dependency, as weu as a mutual iadependeiicy. We
have ^described their independency: let us now describe
their dependency. It consists in this, that the procc/edings
of each, when they come forth into action and are readf
to afiect the whole, are liable to be examined and c<»ip
trolled by one or both of the others*

So far are these different qualities of mutual depen-
dency and mutual independency from opposing or de-
stroying each other, that, without one, the other could
not exist. Whenever the independency of <me, or more
than one, is lost, the mutual dependency of the others
is, that moment, lost likewise: it is changed into ji
constant dependency of that one part on two ; or, at
the case may be, of tho^e two parts on one.

An example may illustrate the foregoing propositions*
They cannot be explained too fully. The congress ia
intrusted with the legislative power of the United States*
In preparing bills, in debating them, in passing them,
in refusing to pass them, their resolutions and proceed-
ings should be uncontrolled and uninfluenced. Here is
the independency of the legislative power. But after
the proceedings of the legislature are finished, so far as
they depend on it, they are sent to be examined, and
are subjected to a given degree of control by the he^d of
the executive department* Here is the dependency of

{.ECTUMirS O^ LAWf 41 i

ikt legtslntiye power. It is subject also to aaother given
degree of control by the judiciary departmeat, whenever
thelawa^ though in fa(:t passed, are found to be contra-
Victory to the constitution.

The salutary consequence of the mutual dependency
of the great powers of government is, that if one part
should, at any time, usurp more power than the con*
Btitution gives, or make an improper use of its con*
#titutional power, one or both of the other parts may
^correct the abuse, or may check the usurpation*

The total dbjunction of these powers would, in the.
end, produce that very union, against which it seems to
Iprovide. The legislature would soon become tyrannical^
and would assume to itself the rights of the executive
«nd judicial powers,

irbe important condusipn to be drawu from the pre-
mises, which we have established, is, that, in govern-
ment, the perfection of the whole depends on the balance
of the partSy and the balance of the parts consists in the
independentexerciseof their separate powers, and, when
their powers are separately exercised, then in their mu-
tual influence and operation on one another.. £ach
part acts and is acted upon, supports and is supported, ,
regulates and is regul^te^ by the rest«

It might be supposed, that these powers, thus mutu-
ally checked and controlled, would remain in a state of
inaction* But there it a necessity for movement inhuman
affairs; mi thene powers are forced to move, though
still to move in concert. T^ey move, indeed^ in a line of
direction somewhat different from that, which each,

413 LECTURES ON LAW.

acting by itself, would have taken; but, atthe same time,
in a line partaking of the natural direction of each, and
formed out of the natural directions of the whole the
true line of publick liberty and happiness*

The works of human invention are progressive ; and
frequently are not completed, till after a slow and length-
ened series of gradual improvements, remotely disUmt
from one another both in place and in time. To the
theory and practice of govef^ment, this observation is
applicable with peculiar justness and peculiar force* In
this science, few opportunities have been given to the
human mind of indulging itself in easy and tmrestrained
investigation : still fewer opportunities have offered of
verifying and correcting investigation by experiment. An
age — a succession of ages— efeipses^ before a system of
jurisprudence rises from its first rude beginnings* When
we have made a little progress, and look forward i a few
eminences in prospect are- fondly supposed to form the
greatest elevation, which we shall be obliged to ascend.
But these, once gained, disclose, behind them, new and
superiour degrees of excellence, yet unattained* In
beginning and continuing, the pursuit of the arduous
paths, through which this science leads us, we may we&
adopt the language of the philosophick poet ;

Sopleas'd, at first, the towering Alps we tiy,
Mount o'er the vales, and seem to tread the sky.
Th' eternal snows appear already past,
And the first clouds and mountains seem the last :
But these attain'd, we tremble to survey
The growing labours of the lengthen'd way ;
Th' increaiung prospect tires- our y/mad^ring eye%
Hills peep o'er hills, and Alps on Alpsaxise t

LECTURfiS ON LAW.

41d

If the discoveries in goretnment are difficult and slow,
how much more arduous must it be to obtain, in practice,
the advantage of those discoveries, after they have been
made ! Of some governments, the foundation has been
laid in necessity ; of others, in fraud ; of others, in force;
of how few, in deliberate and discerning choice ! If, in
their commencements, they have been so unpropitious
to the principles of freedom, and to the means of happi-
ness ; shall we wonder, that, in their progress, th.ey
have been equally unfavourable to advances in virtue and
excellence*

Let us ransapk the records of history: in all our
researches, how few fair instances shall we be able to
find, in which a government has been formed, whose
end has been the happiness of those, for whom it was
designed! how few fair instances shall we find, in which
such a government has been administered with a steady
direction towards that end !

<v

iTo all these circumstances, we must add others,
which show still further the numerous and the strong
obstacles that lie in the way of improvement in juris-
prudence. Government, founded in improper principles,
smd directed.ta improper objects, has a natural and pow-
erful bias, both upon those who rule, and upon those
who are ruled* Its bias upon the first will occasion no
surprise : its bias upon the second, however surprising,
is not, perhaps, less efficacious. How often have the
vassals of absolute monarchy conceived their own digni-
ty and happiness to be involved in the glory of their
monarch ! How often have they, in pursuit of projects
for the accomplishment of his capricious desires, disco-
vered a degree of coimige and enthusiasm, worthy of a

414 lECtlTASS t)N LAW*

iu>blcr object and a better cause ! If such is the effect
jNxxiuced upon their conduct; will an inferiour effect be
produced on their sentiments ? Hence the principles .of
despotism become the principles of a whole nation, blind-
«d and degraded by its pernicious mflueace*

But let us suppose that the lig^t of liberty, at last»
l>reaks in upon Aem ; how slow must its progress; how
feeble, for a long time, must its energy bel Power,
splendour, influence, prejudice, Cashion, all stand arrsBp
ged in opposition to its operations.

Let us enlarge the sphere of our ccmjecture further,
and suppose, that, notwithstanding all the efforts of
opposition, die principles and doctrines of freedom ate
successfully propagated and established ; yet how man^
and how formidable ,are the barriers, diat renudn to be
surmounted, before those principles and doctrines can
be carried successfully into practice I The friends of
freedom, we shall suppose, are unanimous in their sen-
timents ; does the same unanimity prevail with regard
to their measures I does it prevail still farther with regard
to the time and manner of pursuing them ? In all these ^
particulars, is unanimity attended with discretion, op
one hand, and with decision, on the other? A failure in
one circumstance, is a failure in all. Have not centuries
passed without a single auspicious juneture, in which
all, conjoined and cooperating, could have succeeded I

When we revolve, when we compare, when we ccnb-
bine the remarks, which we havt been now making i
when we take a^light glance of others, which might be
offered ; we shall be at no loss to account for die dow

LllCfURES ON LAV. 415

and small progfess^ Which, after a lapse of ftges, has
been, made in the science and practice of govern-
ment.

Among the ancient political writers, no more than
three regular forms of government were known and
allowed. The first is that, in which the supreme power
k lodged in the hands of a single person. This they
denominated a monarchy. The second is that, in which
the supreme power is vested in a select assembly, the
members of which either fill up by election the vacan-
cies of their own body, or succeed to their places by in-
heritance, property, tenure of lands, or in respect of
fiom^ personal right or qualification. To this they gave
the appellation of aristocracy. The third is that, in
which the supreme power remains with the peojde at
large, and is exercised either collectively^, or by repre-
sentation. On this they bestowed the name of demo-
<^acy.

To each of these simple forms, conveniences and
inconveniences, good and bad qualities sCre attached.
In a democracy, publick virtue and purity of intention
are likely to be found ; but its counsels are often impro-
vident, and the execution of them as frequently weak.
In an aristocracy, we expect wisdom formed by educa-
tion and experience ; but, on the other hand, we may
expect jealousies and dissensions among the nobles, and
oppression of the lower orders. In a monarchy, there
are strength and vigour % but there is danger, that they
wSl not be employed for the happiness and prosperity of
die state. A democracy is best calculated to direct the
end of the laws ; an aristocracy, to direct the means of
attaining that end ; a monarchy, to carry those means
into execution.

416 LECTUJIES on LAW.

The ancients considered all other species of govern-
ments as either corruptions of these three simple forms,
or as reducible to some one of them. They had no idea
of combining all the three together, and of uniting the
advantages resulting from each. Cicero, <» indeed, seems
to have indulged a fond speculative opinion, that a go-
vethment formed of the three kinds, properly blended
and tempered] would, of all, be the best constituted.
But this opinion was treated as visionary by his countzy-
men ; and by Tacitus, ^ one of the wisest of them.

The example of Great Britain, however, has evinced
that the sentiments of Cicero merited a very different
reception ; and that, if they did not point to the highest
degree of excellence, they pointed, at least, to aubstaa-
tial improvement.

The government of that nation is composed of mo-
narchical, aristocratical, and democratical parts. It poe*
sesses— we freely and with pleasure acknowledge-— it
possesses advantages over all that have preceded it: iB
dignity and in duration, in the maintenance of liberty,
both publick and private, it has stood preeminent. But
has it reached the lofty summit of perfection ? In the
race of excellence,' has it gained a goal, which cannot
be surpassed i Is it entitled, as, i^ less enligbtosed
times, the columns of Hercules were thought to be, to
the proud inscription of ^^ne plus ultra?"

For the western world, new and rich discoveries In
jurisprudence have been reserved. We have found that,
in order to arrive, in this first of human sciences, at a

LECTURES ON LAW. 417

point of ^perfection hitherto un attained, it is not neces-
sary to intermix the different species of government.
We have discovered, that one of them — ^the best and
purest — ^that, in which the supreme power remains with
the people at large, is capable of being formed, arranged,
proportioned, and organized in such a manner, as to ex-
dkxde the inconveniences, and to secure the advantages
of all the three. On the basis of goodness, we erect the
pillars of wisdom and strength.

The formation and establishment of constitutions are
an immense practical improvement, introduced by the
Americans into the science of government and jurispru-
dence. By the invigorating and overruling energy of
a constitution, the force and direction of the govern-
ment are preser\'ed and regulated ; and its movements
are rendered uniform, strong, and safe.

It is proper that the nature and distinguishing charac-
teristicks of a constitution should be clearly stated and
explained* The sentiments and expressions, even of
celebrated writers upon this subject, are uncommonly
inaccurate and obscure.

By the term constitution, I mean that supreme law,
made or ratified by those in whom the sovereign power
of the state resides, which prescribes the manner, ac-
cording to which the state wills that the government
should be instituted and administered. From this con-
stitution the government derives its power : by this con-
stitution the power of government must be directed and
eontroUed: of this constitution no alteration can/ be
made by the government; because such an alteration
would destroy the foundation of its own authority. '

VOL. I. 3 H

\

418 LECTURES ON LAW,

As to the people, however, in whom the sovereign
power resides, the case is widely diiFerent, and stands
upon widely diiFerent principles. From their authority
the constitution originates : for their Safety and felicity
it is established : in their hands it is as clay in the hands
of the potter : they have the right to mould, to preserve,
to improve, to refine, and to finish it as they please. If
so ; pan it be doubted, that they have the right likewise
to change it? A majority of the society is sufficient for
this purpose; and if there be nothing in* the changCf
which can be considered as contrary to the act of origi-
nal association, or to the intention of those who united
under it ; all are bound to conform to the resolution of
the majority. If the act of original association .be in-
fringed, or the intention of those who united under it
be violated; the minority are still obliged to suffer the
majority to do as they think proper ; but are not obliged
to submit to the new government. They have a right
to retire, to sell their lands, and to carry off their effects*

It may, perhaps, be asked — ^why is so much pains
taken to prove and illustrate a principle, whic^, when
detached from adventitious circumstances, and exhibited
in its undisguised appearance, is so obvious, that few will
be found disposed, in direct terms, to refuse their assent
to its trul^ ? Has it been denied, that those, who have
a right to make, have a right to alter what they have
made ?

In England it has been d^ied : the successour of Sir
^illiamfilackstone in the Vinerian chair expresa!e;s hitnv
self upon this sutgect in the fpllowii^ maoner. ^^Haw«
ever the historic^al fact may be of a soci^ cdntfact^
government ought to be, and is^nerally .considered 9$

Z.EGTURES ON LAW. 419

ibunded oh consent, tacit , or express, on a real of quasi
compact. This theory is^a material basis of political
rights ; and, as a theoretical point, is not difficult to be
maintained. For what gives any legislature a right to
act, where no express consent can be shown ? what, but
immemorial usage? and what is the intrinsick force, of
immemorial usage, in establishing this fundamental or
any other law, but that it is evidence of common acqui-
escence and consent ? Not,'* adds he," " that such consent
is subsequently revocable, at the will even of all the sub-
jects of the state, for that would be making a part of the
community equal in power to the whole originally, and
superiour to the rulers thereof, after thqir establishment." q
'* I am far," says he, in another place, " from maintain-
ing, that any consent, tacit or express, is essential to
induce the duty of subjection from individuals bom under
an established government." ^ The evident consequence
of these positions is, that though the great an4 animating
principle of consent is considered as necessary to the
first formation of government, yet it is by no means
Accessary in the successive periods of its establidhment.
The theory is admrtted; but the continued right to
practise according to that theory is denied. In olher
words, an established government is treated as superiour
to those, or, at least, to others possessing aH the rights of
those, who originally formed its establishment.

In America, indeed, the doctrine, which I have taken
some pains to prove and illustrate. Has not been denied^
in words ; yet unwearied attempts have, on more occa-
sions than one, been made to elude its operation, and to-
destroy its force.

^ EL Jur. (4ta) 22. ' r Id. 23.

420 XECTVRES OK LAW.

Besides ; it is of high import, that the great principks
of society and government should not only be known and
recognised, but also that they should be so maturely
considered and estimated, as, at last, to make a practical
impression, deep and habitual, upon the publick mind.
A proper regard to the original and inherent and conti-
nued power of the society to change its constitution, wiU
prevent mistakes and mischiefs of very di£ferent kinds.
It will prevent giddy inconstancy : it will prevent unthink-
ing rashness : it will prevent unmanly languor.^

Some have appeared apprehensive, that the introduc-
,tion of this principle into our political creed would open
the door for the admission of levity and unsteadiness ia
all our political establishments. The very reverse will
, be its effect. Let the uninterrupted power to change
be admitted and fully understood, and the exercise of it
will not be lightly or wantonly assumed. There is a vis
inertia in publick bodies as well as in matter ; and, if left
to their natural propeiilsities, they will not be moved
' without a proportioned propelling cause. If, indeed, the
prevailing opinion should be, that the society had not the
re^ar power of altering, on every proper opportunity,
its political institutions ; an occasion, favourable in ap-
pearance, but deceptive in reality, might be snddetdy
fixed on, as a season for action. It might be allowed not
to be, in every respect, unexceptionable ; but when, it
would be urged, will another, less exceptionable, present
itself? The consequence would be, that the juncture^
however unpropitious, would be seized with premature
and improvident zeal, in order to accomplish the medi-
tated change. Disappointments, arising from the wan^of
due preparations, would take place ; disasters, very pre-
judicial to the publick and to individuals^ would be pro*

I

LECTURES OK LAW. 421

t

duced; and the enterprise would prove abortive, merely
because it was pursued at an unfit time, and under unfit
circumstances.

On the other hand, how often and how long has
degrading despotism reigned triumphant, because the
enfeebled and desponding sufferers under it have not
Inown, or, having once known, have, at last, forgotten,
that they retain, during every moment of their slavery,
the right of rescuing themselves from the proud and
bloated authors and instruments of their oppression !
Hesitation about ihe right will be attended with a cor*
responding hesitation about the expediency of redress.
A revolution, surrounded, in prospect, so thickly with
doubts, uncertainties, and apprehensions, will wear a
gloomy and formidable appearance ; and the miserable
patients of tyranny will languish out their lives in excru-
ciating and accumulated distress, merely because they
will not undergo one short operation, which would not
be more painful than their disease, and which would for*
ever deliver them from all its ills and consequences.

The importance of a good constitution will, on reflec*
tion and examination, be easily conceived, deeply felt,
and readily acknowledged. On the constitution will
depend the beneficence, the wisdom, and the energy, or
the injustice, the folly, and the weakness of the govern-
ment and laws. On the good or bad qualities of the
government and laws, will depend the prosperity or the
decline of the state. On the same good or bad qualities
will depend, on one hand, the excellence and happiness,
and, on the other, the depravity and infelicity of the
citizens.

I
4^2 LECTURES ON LAW.

A State well constituted, well proportioned, and well
conducted feels her own importance, her own power>
and her own vigour. Her importance, her power, and
. her vigour are seen by others, « as well as felt by herself.
What are the. consequences i Internal firmness ; exter*
nal respect: the confidence of her citizens; &e esteem
of foreigners. What, again, ate the consequences of
these? Peace; and dignity and security in the enjoy-
ment of peace.

Let, us reverse the scene-— let us view a state ill con-
structed, ill proportioned, and ill directed. She may

' exhaust every stratagem, and employ every art, to cover
her weakness and her defects : but can she destroy her

. own knowledge of them ? will her arts and stratagems
be successful in concealing them from others ? The very
pains taken to conceal, will facilitate the discovery, and
enhance its importance. Her imperfections, lialf seen
behind the veil drawn over them, will appear greater,
than if fully exposed. What will be the result of this
situation, thus felt and thus viewed \ Fluctuation in her
councils ; irresolution in her measures ; pusillanimity in
her attempts to execute them : the distrust and alarm
of her own citizens : the contempt, and the unfriendly
designs produced by the contempt, of the nations around
her : the evils attending war, or the evils, little inferiour,
attending a nation, which is equally incapable of securing

' peace and of repelling hostilities.

The influence' of a good or bad constitution is not
less powerful on the citizens, considered as individuals,
than on the community, considered as a body politick.
It is only under a good constitution that liberty— -the
precious gift of heaven — can be enjoyed and be secure*

LECTURES ON LAW.
Thid exalting quality comprehends, aracfng other things,
the manly and generous exercise of Aur powera; and
includes, as its most delicious ingredient, ^e happy
consciousness of being free. What energetick, what
delightful seMisatioiis must this enlivening principle diffuse
over? the ivhole man! His mind is roused and elevated:
his heart is rectified and enlarged: dignity appears in his
£ountenanoe, add animation in his every gesture and word*
He knows that If he iis innocent and upri^t, the laws
andccmstitutioti of his country will ensure him protection.
He trusts, that^ if to innocence and integrity he adds
faithful and meritorious services, his country, in addition
to protection, will confer upon him honourable testimo*
mcB of her esteem* Hence he derives a cheerful and
habitual confidence, this pervades and invigorates his
conduct, and spreads a noble air over every part of his
character. Hence, too, he is inspired with arSent
affection for the publick: this stimulates and refines
his strongest patriotick exertions. His heart, his head^
his hands, his tongue, his pen, his fortune ; all he is,
and all he has, are devoted to his country's cause, and
to his country's call.

A person of a vpry different description appears in
view— -pale, trembling, emaciated, faltering in his step^,
not daring to look upwards, but, with marked anxiety,
rolling his eager eyes on every side. Who is he? He is
the> slave of a bad constitution and a tyrannical , govern-
ment. He is afraid to act, or speak, or look. He knows
that his actions and his words, however guarded, may
be construed to be criminal : he knows that'even his looks
and countenance may be considered as the signs and evi*
dences of treacherous thoughts and treasonable conspi*
racies; and he knows that the suspicion of his masters^

424 LECTURES ON X,AV.

»

upon any of these points, mity be fatal : for he knoirs,
that be is at the mercy of those, who, upon the slightest
suspicion, may seize or bang him — ^who may do what-
ever they please with him, and vriA aU those who are
dear to him. What effects must this man's Mtuation pro-
duce upon his mind and temper ? Can his views be great
or exahed F No. Such views, instead of being encou-
raged, would give offence ; and he is Well aware what
would follow. Can openness and candour beam from
his soul ? No. Such light would be hateful to hid mas-
ters ; it must be extinguished. Can he feel affection for
his country, its constitution, or its government? No.
His country is his prison ; its constitution is his xurse ;
and its government is a rod of. oppression, held continu-
ally over his head. What must this man be f He must
be abject, fawning, dastardly, selfish, disingenuous, de-
ceilftily cunning, base — but why proceed in the disgust-
ing detail i He must receive the stamp of serviliQr fully
impressed on his person, on his mind, and on his man-
ners.

* *

Sucn are the influences of a constitution^ good or
bad, upon the political body : such are its influences upon
the members, of which that body is composled. Surely,
then, the first consideration of a state, and its most im-
portant duty,, is to form that constitution, which will be
best in itself ; and best adapted to the genius, and cha-
racter, and manners of her citizens. Such a constitu-
tion will be the basis of her preservation, her happiness,
and her perfection.

CHAPTER XI.

fieBBBBBBBBMBB

COMPARISON OF THE CONSTITUTION OT THE UNITED
STATES, WITH THAT OF GREAT BRITAIN.

HE Britisk constitution has been celebrated in the
most suUime and in the most elaborate strains by poets,
by orators, by lawyers, and by statesmen* ^^ As for us
Brhons," says the elegant Shaftesbury, compering them,
in the spirit of a fond and a just preferencfe, with many
other nations, ^^ as for us Britons^ tbank he»ren, we have
a better sense of govermnent, delivered to us from our
ancestors. We bavi a notion of a puUick, and a con-
stitution; how a legislative and how an executive is
modelled. We imderstand weight and measure in this
kind ; smd can reason justly on the balance of power and
property. The maxims we cbraw from hence, are as
evident as those in mathematicks. Our increasing know*
ledge shows us every day, more and more, what common
sense is in politicks." ^

a LShaft.108.
▼01, !• 3 I

426 LECTURES ON XAW.

My Lord fiolingbroke,^ in his masterly and animated
style, represents this constitution as ^^ a noble fabrick,
the pride of Britain, the envy of her neighbours, raised
by the labour of so many centuries, repaired at the ex-
pense of so many millions, and cemented by such a pro-
fusion of blood— *^ fabrick, which has resisted the e£Forts
of so many races of giants.^'

Tou will be suif rised to being told, that, if the nature
and chaiiicteristick qualities, which I have described, are
the true nature and characteristick qualities of a consti-
tution ; no such thing as a constitution, properly so called,
is known in Great Britain. What is known, in that king-
dom, under that name^ instead of being the controller and
the guide, is the creature and the dependeilt of the legis-
lative power. The supreme power of the people is a
doctrine unknown and unacknowledged in the British
system of goYeramiMit, The omnipoteasi wthority of
paiiiameni is the dtsmiei resort, taj^Uch ttsmit9%,i9 had
m timea and in doctwaeft of unpomn/on tUflCwal^r mhI
imporqiiice«. The natural, tho JB«|itff nt^ wd di<|;«.pcedsCb
minating rights of the citizMs ara .citfltideried aa m
dangerous and so ctf^spentte a resourse, asuto he iaeon»
sistent with the arraoij^flSf^^lsflf anygoveirntteait, ivhlch
does or can exisii ^

The order oftbsn^ in Britaxa La exactly the revere
of the oar4ex.of dungs, in d^ Uni|«^ Stsut^ Har^ ^ IJUI
^opfe iMre mastevi of the govcrndtt&ilx thfi»t the^gD^vem
mem 1%. maaiey of the pccyleii

.That, on this very interesting aat^Ct »t .My|l>i»
you may be en.abled to judge for yourselves, I shall lay

!> Diss. on Part^ 1ft. lap. 151.45^

LECTUR&S OH LAWl 4%t

before you lome passages from Britisb^ritef s of high
reputaticaii From those passages, }Km okn draw yout
OWA infertnces.

«

*' Molt of thosr,'' feayi Mr. Palej* " who treat of the
Briiiifth consthntion, consider it as a sfchethe of goVeni«
mem formally planned attd contrived hj our ancestorA^
in some certain era of out national history | and aa act
up tn purftMn^ of vuch reguiar fjltin and design* Somt^
iMng of this soft !g «*4cretly supposed, or reikrt^ed to^
in (h^ e!tpressions of tho^e, who dpeak c^the principles
of the constitution) of bringing back the constitution to
its first principles, of restoring it to its original purity,
or prknttive model. Now this appears to me an enrbne-
OU8 conception of the subject. . No such plan was erer
Ibrmed i oonsequendy no such first principlei, original
ttod«l, or dtttWhard exist.

^^ 'fh^ a)natitutiwi it one prindpal division, head,
aectiofi) or ti4!k 5f th^ e«»de of pubHek laws, distinguished
from llie rest bnfy by tHtf pmttecitar nature, or siiperiour
importance of tho subject, of whldl it treats. There-
fore the terms constitutional and unconstitutional^ mean
leg^tukd itleg^^ The distinction' and the ideas, which
these terms denote, iu-fc founded in the same authority
with the law of the land upon any other subject ; and to
be aacertnined by the tame inquiries. Th^ system of
' Bn^lsh jut4s^den«e ia mide np af acts of patfiament,
df d^ciaioAs of^urtt <if law, and of immemorial usages;
Mtt8e«[uemly, thes« ^^ the principles of Hftiich the eonstf-
tutimi Itself consists ; the 'sources, from whieh all our
Uiowkdg6 cf its ntture and Unikations is to b^ diidue^d,
and the authorities, to which all appeal ought to be
made, and by which tvery CMStitutional doubt or ques-

42d IKCTVftES OW LAW.

tion can alone be decided. This plain and inte&igiUe
definition is the more necessary to be'^pi^servcd in o«r
thoughts, as some writers iy>on the subject absurdljr
confound what is constitutional irith what is expedient;
pronouncing forthwith a meastire to be. unconstitutional,
which theyadjudge in any respect to be detrimental or
dangerous ; whilst others agun ascribe a kind of tran-
scendent authority, or mysterious sanctity to thcvconsti*
tution, as if it was founcted in some higlMr original^
than that, whicl^ gives force and oUigation ta Ae ofdW
nary laws and statutes of the realm, or were inyio-
lable on any other account than its intrinsic^ utility.

^^ An act of parliament, in EngTand, can never be
unconstittitional, in the strict and proper accepwSon of
the term : in a lower sense it may ; viz. when it mil»*
tates with the spirit, conthuiicts the analogy," ov defeats
the provision of other laws, made to rejfolate tha form
of government. Even dlirt flagitio«» abuse of Aeir trust,
by which a parliament of 4IenEry the highlit ^conferred
upon 'die king^s proclamation die aolkotlly-of law,
unconstitutional oidy Sn= this litter "•^— » »>-•

Sir William Bladestoh^ uses the tlMa, dMistkation,
as commensurate wifli the law of Bnglaiid. ^^ CMfta con-
stitution,'' says he; ^^ so wisely tKiHiv^i d, so stfan^^y
raised, and so highly finished, it is hard'to apeak»with
that'praise, which is justly and 8«!lrtrely lte^4tte. ^ Iriiatii
been the endeavour of these ComaMltifrtesj'koweewtiia
execution may have succeeded, ta exanune its soUd
foundations; to mark out Ita- ejttdudve plan, to eiqdain
'the use and distribution of lis piits, mid ifam Iheliar-

L£GTU»ES Oir law; 40$

ntonkuM toncurrence of those several parts to demoQ*
i^ate the elegant proportipn of the whole." *^

Mn Pidey use» the word in a more coofintd and^
perhaps, a more proper sense, when applied «& Great
Britaia ; as4&^ni>g that part of the Vaw, which relates
to the derifnsiftian aos^form of the legisla^re i , the rights
and fimct^oi^ of l]ie several parts of the legislative body;
^e constxiiction, oftce, andi« jurisdiction of the courts
of jus^e.* In tlM sense I shall use the term, when I
^9)ea]t df the British coqatimtion. Aii4». lH this stnse,
the atip^oiity of our constitution tf^ that of Great
Britain * will emin^ivlly appear from the comparison,
\whidi we now intitule, betweep dM^ principles, their
consnw^on, their proportion, and/tilieir^ntKperties.

't3» wienaitin of th» theoty wd fnmic^ <of represen-
tation.4h»iA|gfc att the differentdkpiitm^nts .of the state
is aaMiiei^ v^y iiaportwt; aq^sj^lon ^ma^e, by the
• Amotieima, ioiilhe sdentee of jui^9]^dence and goyeicn^
meni* To ttte^mieiett^ this ilhiaQiy mi, practice seepi
to h»ve been aitpgetkor* vac^amfimi To this moment,
the representatioit of the pec^le is npt the sole principfe
of aiiy ^avetanieAtin X,iii>i|pt» Gr^t Britain boosts,
and;i^ may^ boast willi jii^tifsg^ that,, by the admission
of mpresf ntHAni, si^e hzsiajse^^^i a valuable improye-
mcot lMy> titf soie«K:e of ^nr|||fiidence.. The improve-
memifi ^Mliilly* valuable, «o 4r4i»it extends} bi^ it is

^t lil^ prineifiie pf f epvftleBtation introduced into the

• , •

^4.9k.€mk^m.!Wk '' « 8. Foley. 309.

/-

This lifts ti6vef been attempted. Before di« t>«^rolufkA

of one thousand ti% faundted antt eighty l^ight^ iome of

the kings claimed to hold their thrones by divine, odiers

Ify hegtMmrf Affht r and t^tn 1ft the i<m{>t>Ttant em of

Ihaf^ n^ofiitioit, nothing fM'ther ^^te enieafiiroared or

obtained^ than Ae recogftiti^ of toeiltoitt {^at» of an

original tontmet, supposed^ at «olKie fiir Met period, t^

hare b^en made between die king dnidl the*p«ople> A

cbntract tf eeMs lo ekcliida, mthbr thkn to tttit^' delegated

powers The judges o( Great Brkiirt a^ a^poftited by

the^crovn. Tht judicial department, ^cbtrefa^, doeft

not depend «pMr a representation'of the peopled, erente

its reihcMiest decree. Is represetitittion a prlncifie'^era-

ting in the legislative department of Oreat BriUnn^'^It id;

but ieid t<)ia'pred)eimnating principle i thou||lFSmay

serve as a vefy salutary check. The leghlatare con^ts

of three btwdres, the^ihf , the k^ds, and ^bm mmUk om.

Of these, only- tlie latsier are supposed, by dM coAstitu*

tion, to fXlpiMecr^e m|Aorlif-of die people^ ^sWeniiir

s«te cle&riy, to whut n narrow comer of ilie Briliilii^evn*

n^rit the prinelpte trf i rt i ^ Ks e ttta t fate tft^diffiAeiv tn no

'Other ^government M SiiHype -does it eaeteeid imMer : In

none, I believe, so ftin The Aiberiioati Stakes^ enjoy

Che glory and the IwjppiMM of disusing ibfevHdpirind

"pie tYirdtf|;hout al Ae <HA»eiie dKlF4|toi& ilkl' (impart-

nien%8 of ihe govemmeitti ^tej^eseiitaftM k - tbe/tfiefa

of coitimvinfcation b^ween the ^people "isad ^^^Hiomi* to

a!%K)M' tftey ' have ecMnioBtittett* the ieofportantHEIiif^'^ t^f*

Aercising the delegated powers necessiopf Mr^ie itf^il-

msthition of publitk affairs. This chaiti may coidsiift of

'one^hik,' oif'df more linki/^an 01^ ; but it dioi8ftlAfays'

^4idik)ltntlyMi^*im*dbtarnMe:. ■J■'^:^^\

. *

A8,^1n BiS(g|Iaftd, the Hbus^tf e6nAn6ei ll6lBfe -repre-
sents, or is supposed to represent, the Jf^fh at laf|;e ;

aD, H» thm > » < | w< alcne are vc to look for the attslituk
tional and authoritative expression of the people's wiIIa
But even in that houst, thi^ will is but very feebly smd
rery impeifiictljr acpcpssed; ibr the representation ill
tk^Lt htese h t€rj unequal and inadequate i and i^ is pro*
tracted^hr^i^ a period o£ time much «»o )ong.

It is very unequal and inadequate. In England,, wt
may, froni Is^vmation whick seems to be naexceptioaa*
ble, compute aix hundred and thirty nine thonsand taxa^
ble k^abitantSb This nq^oJ^er would #s^gB' one rapre-
aantative^to twel^^ hundred coastitueais* Buftth^ fact
is, ditt a number not exceeding six liioiuMiDfl «u*o< suffix
cicnt- to return more than- one. hiJf <4 Aa meml^s of
th» htaaaa 0f commons. This Is in the prxfortton of
tvraoty ^e# eonstituems for one rtpne^nt^iire^ The
consffaewe is,, that a majo^tf .^ the houatf of x4ln-
mo^s may be ratumsd by less than a fiftieth part of the

cpiilliftMMh tha^ in|| ht t« be re^ske far^^eiuning that
ttiajotJly^ IVfcst ia ^ situatkai of Uk; other forty nte
parts j I<^ed I rep<M,^lil)»s mpasaeMMtioD 14 very une^iMl
astd ioadr^uatai v4i to^ Ikie Aiiaslley. of electars^ itcejs;.
tainly ia»

».

ItJM|ry,fe4is|»^ he^ipmmAf diat tbia dei^iency m
their lumobita^ is, io «(Mae'«iMSi»'a at laast^ compensated
by tha ^iTQnh^ tioAt respeetabiliQr, the indepeildeaca, and
tha epbis^ iaiftslMa oi.iha individuala^ who araiea^
pow^ed to vata^ . To tbia ex]N»ctatioi), tba fi^ct is dk
rectlir reverse. That small part are the most dependent
and iim loist raspeenMc patt af tba comnKvis of Eng*
iahd. Tkey aye -tii»pliatiiaHy sftylad. Ae rotten pm» of
the constitution. <, In dignity and respectability, there*
fore, as wtM -as in numkert, #» representation of the

4tt LECtUJlXS OH XAW.

conmttMM of England is extremely inadeqiMile and une-
mud*

r

The softness of a iviiisper maf sometkoM conunum*
Gate8oiBid<ifitii«more.distkict impesstos d»a there*
port of a cannoiii Sir William Blacksloms admits dial
^ if a&y alteration might be wished or suggested in die
present frame of pailiament, it should b« j^iiavoar ^f a
mora complete representation of the pe^d^" ^

The inei|uafilty ^ the repr^entation of the peefie of
England is evisiced, in the moat striking maiiaer, by
another comparative view, in which it may he placed.
Ninety ^^^ mamkars represent the landed interest; abont
one hoodjred meinbets represent the. great cilimi ud
tawnsi above tbl^ee hundred mmnbem ^cjapeaent sm^
ani inconaidecaUe 1mniu|^.

But fiifidifr; tbe vepresentatioai of the cownwii is
aot renewed by them at periods im(Bfl«i% neagone ana*
#ier. PariiaiifcmtswegeaitfiipiBWrowlA Acy laere after*
warda triennial; n<yw.th«y iveaqjtetaaidL This last pe^
tiod is surely too long. The aieiBlmf» will be apt to
forget the source ffom which they hartl teceivtd theb
powers. Every govcnumM, % order to p r esitvt its
freedom, has frequent need of stiiae new piovisioBs in
Cavour of t)iat freedmn. Such wm fmtm&m arainost
Ukelir ^o spring from those, who haM- harm recon% am*
fnated by the iniqnration of the people.

A rei»esenti^ion, inadaqoitei^ «iiylil» and^oatmnad
too long, is incOQststpit wiA lite prjuiriplea of free go-

^
f

LECT0RSS ON LAW* 43^

vemm^t : for by such a representation,* it is probable
that the sense of the people will be misapprehended, or
misrepresented, or despised. This probability has, in
England, been converted into fact and experience. Du-
ring many years past, the politicks of the house of com-
mons have been moved by the direction of the court and
.ministers, and* not by the sense of the nation. Numer-
ous and striking instances of this might be produced.
But I can only point to those paths of investigation ; I
cannot pursue them.

How immensely difEerent is the state of representa-
tion in the house of commons, from that which is es-
tablished in the United States. With us, every free-
man who possesses an attachment to the community, and
a common interest with his fellow citizens, and is in a
situation not necessarily dependent, is entitled to a vote
for members. With us, no preference is given to any
party, any interest, any situation, any profession,' or
any description over another. With us, those votes,
equally, freely, and univers^ly diffused, will have theii-
frequent and powerful operation and influence. With
us, therefore, it may be expected, that the voice of the
representatives will be the faithful echo of the voice of
the people.

Having seen that the house of representatives of the
United States will not suffer by being compared, in its
proportion and in its duration, with the house of com-
mons of Great Britain ; let us proceed to a comparison
of the senate with the house of lords.

That house is divided into two orders ; the lords
spiritual, and the lords temporal. The loicds spiritual

VOL.1. 3 k

4Si> LECTUEES ON XAW.

are composed of the archbishops and bishops. All these
hold, or are supposed to hold, certain ancient baroni^
tinder the crown ; and^ in right of succession to those
baronies, which were inalienable from their respective
dignities, they obtained their seats in the house of lords*
With the other lords they intermix in their votes;
and the majority of such intermixture binds both estates.
The lords temporal consist of all the peers of the realm,
by whatever title of nobility they are distinguished. Of
these, some sit by descent, as all ancient peers ; others,
by creation, as all new made ones ; others, since the
union with Scotland, by election of the nobility of that
countiy. The number of peers is indefinite ; and may
be increased at the pleasure of the crown.

The writers on the British constitution view the dis-
tinctions of rank and honours as necessary in every well
governed state, in order to reward such as are eminent
for their services to the publick ; exciting thus a laudable
ardour in others ; and diffusing, by such ard6ur, life and
vigour through the whole community. A body of no-
bility, they say, creates and preserves that gradual scale
of dignity, which proceeds from the peasant to the
prince ; rising, like a^yramid, from a broad foundation,
and diminishing as it rises, till, at last, it terminates in
a single point. It is this ascending and contracting pro-
portion, they conclude, which adds stability to any go*
vemment.

That eminent services ought to be rewarded, that de-
votion to the publick ought to receive the warmest en-
couragement, will not be denied here. But does this
encouragement — do these rewards grow only in aoi aris-
tocratick soil i Has republicanism no rewards or honours

LECTURES ON*LAW. 435

for her meritoripus sons ? She is accused, it is true, of
ingratitude. But the facts, which have given rise to
the accusation, have not, we hope, been owing pert*
liarly to her disposition or principles, but have sprung
from a spirit of envy and malevolence, predomina-
ting, alas! too much in all communities, and disco*
vering too often more activity and zeal in doing mischief,
dian the opposite qualities display in doing good. Be-
sides; instances have not been unfrequent, in which
publick gratitude has been expressed by commonwealths,
most generously and most effectually, both in words and
actions. It is true, that the publick testimonials of gra-
titude and esteem have no hereditary descent among re-
publicans ; because it is true, that no regular course of
descent is established in the qualities and services which
merit them.

The nobility, we are told, are necessary in the British
constitution, to form a barrier against the mutual en-
croachments of the king and of the people. In the
government of the United States, separate orders of men
dp not exist ; no encroachments of this kind can take
place ; and there is no occasion to provide barriers against
them. The pyramid of government may certainly be
raised with all the graces of fair proportion, and also with
the more substantial qualities of firmness and strength,
although the materials, of which it is constructed, be not
an assemblage of different and dissimilar kinds. These
are more likely to recal to our minds the composition
and the fate of a heterogeneous and disjointed piece of
wcMrkmanship, so well described by the prophet Daniel.
But to drop, the idea of approving and disapproving by
metaphor ; we find that, in Britain, there being two orders,
the king and the people, it was necessary that there sfaoald

436 LECTURES OK LAW.

be a third, to hold the balance between them. But dif-
ferent orders, we apprehend, may well be dispensed with
in a good and perfect government*

Wisdom, it is said, is foand in an aristocracy. Why ?
Because its members are formed by education, and
matured by experience, for the discharge of their duty.-
Education and experience, it will be readily allowed, are
excellent for forming and finishing the habits and charac-
ters of statesmen. But on whom will the best education
be probably bestowed f On whom will it be likely to
produce the strongest and most beneficial influence ? On
him, whose parents know, and who himself will soon
know, that, whether he receive it or not, or, receiving it,
whether he improve it or not, still he must succeed to
all the preeminences of aristocratick power?— or on
him, whose parents foresee, and who himself will be soon
sensible, that his prospects of success in publick life must
depend on the qualities, acquired as well as natui'al,
which, he can bring into publick life along. with him?
Whom will experience best teach ? Him, who sees, that,
as estimable acquirements have not been necessary for
introducing him to the dignities of the state, they are as
little necessary for continuing him in the enjoyment of
them ? or him, who is aware, that, as the good opinion
of his fellow citizens concerning his talents and virtues
procured him admission to the honours of his countty,
his continuance in the possession of those honours mus.t
depend on his justifying that good opinion, on his im-
proving it into confidence, and on his showing, by a
progressive display of services and accomplishnaents,
that his conduct becomes daily more aQd more worthy of
publick sanction and esteem ? He is, it is true, in some
measure, dependent : but his dependence is not of an

LECTURES ON LAW. 4d7

irrational or illiberal kind. It is of a kind, which, in-
stiead of depressing, will rouse and elevate the temper
and character.

*

We thus seize the strong outworks of aristocracy,
and successfully turn on herself her most formidable
batteries.

In drawing a contrast between the executive magis*
trates of the United States and Great Britain, I wave
every degree of comparison with regard to some of the
characters applied to the latter, lin the description given
of him by the British law and the British lawyers. They,
ascribe to him certain qualities as inherent in his royal
capacity, distinct from and superiour to those of any
other individual in the nation : they assign to him certain
properties of a great and transcendent nature : .by these
means, it is thought, the people will consider hin^i in the
light of a superiour being ; and will pay him that awful
respect, which may enable him, with greater ease, to'
cArry on the business of government- The law clothes
him with the attributes of sovereignty, of ubiquity, and
of absolute perfection: he can do no wrong: he can
think no wrong : in him no folly — ^in him no weakness
can be found : royal wisdom is ascribed to the infant of
a span long, as much as to the experienced sire, who
has seen diree generations : the man dies ; but the king

satisfies the wish of eastern adulation : he lives for ever!

■ ■ '

Prepossessions long entertained, habits long formed,
and practices long' established may, possibly, have inter-
woven those ideas into the system of the British consti-
tution in such a manner, that it would be difficult now to
disentangle them, without tearing or injuring some more

438 LECT0&E8 OK lAV«

useful parts of the fiafxick. But in foming a new syv
tern, it is certainly neither necessary n<xr proper to intro-
duce into it qualities and pretensions so disprc^rtionedi
to the sober consideration and management of human
affairs. Power may be conferred without mystery ; and
may be exerdsed, for every wise and benevolent pur-
pose, without challenging attributes, to which our frail
and imperfect state of hamzmty stands in daily and
marked contradiction.

On what foundation is the monarchical part of the
British ccmstitution 8upp<»ted ? Are the rights of the
monarch supposed, by it, tx> flow from the authority of
those, over whom Ke is placed ? Is the majesty of the
people recognised as the august parcsit of the preTogav
live of the prince i No. Such principles have never re-
ceived the sanction of the British ccmstitutioiu Con-
cerning the origin of the powers and rights of their mo-
narchs, very different opinions have, at dUIerent times,
been entertained and prt^gated. The.dark foundations
of conquest have, in some reigns, been uncovered and
exposed to view. Divine right has, in others, been im-
piously summoned to sanctify claims and pretensions, too
exorbitant to have derived their source from human au-
thority. At some periods, the title to the crown has
been supposed to be founded on hereditary right, aright
derived, by succession, from a long list of ancestors.
But, in tracing this succession upwards, we necessarily
come, at last, in frict, or in idea, to some one, who was
the first possessor. How did he acquire his possession i
The solution, now received, of this question, is, that
it was in consequence of an CMriginal contract, made, at
some former distant period, between the king and the
people* The terms of this contract have, indeed, heesi

LEGTURS8 ON LAlir. 43t

the subject of frequent and doiAtfiil disputation. At the '
revolution, however, some of them were reduced to a
certainty : and the existence of the contract itself was
explicitly recognised. But a contract does not imply
the idea of derivative power j it seems rather to imply an
equality between the parties contracting. Besides ; the
crown, on whomever it may be devolved by virtue of
this contract, still retains its descendible quality, and be-
comes hereditary in the wearer. Even in this enlighten-
ed century, the most determined champions of liberty in
Great Britain have not instituted' the claim, that the
power of every part of government^ the monarchical not
excepted, should be founded on the authority of the peo-
ple. Hear in what a humiliating manner one of their
boldest and most energetick writers has described th^ir
power on this interesting subject. ^^ The British liberties
are not the grants of princes. They are original rights,
conditions of original contracts, coequal with the prero-
gative, and coeval with the governments" ^

How different is this language, and how different are
these sentiments, from the language and sentiments,
which, under our improved systems of government, we
are entitled to hold and express ! We have no occasion
to enter a caveat against the supposition, that our liber-
ties are the grants of princes. With us, the poweiis of
magistrates, call them by whatever name you please, are
the grants of the people. With us, no prerogative or
government can be set up as coequal with the authority
of the people. The atipreme power is in them ; and in
them, even when a constitution is formed, and govern^
ment is in Operation, the supreme power still remains^

I BoL Rem. let 4

440 LECTURES ON LAW^

A portion of their authority they, indeed, delegate;
but they delegate that portion in whatever manner, in
whatever measure, for whatever time, to whatever per-
sonsy and on whatever conditions they choose to fix.

Those, who have traced and examined the subject of
the appointment of govemours, find, or think they find,
an irreconciUble opposition between the principles of
what they admit to be sotmd theory, and the rules of
what they contend to be exclusively the safe and eligible
practice. That what appears right in theory may be
wrong in practice, is, no .doubt, a possible case : but I
am apt to believe that, generally, this contrariety is
mor^ apparent than real : and proceeds either from in*
accurate investigation, or from improper conduct.

It has been the sentiment of many writers, that to
have elective govemours is best in speculation ; but that
to have hereditary ones is best in fact. The sense of
nations has often, on this subject, coincided with the
sentiments of writers ; and therefore, they have trusted
to chance rather than to choice, the succession of those,
who hold the reins of power over them. They admit,
that the chance is even a bad one. They admit that one
bom to govern is, by education, generally disquidified,
both in body and mind, rather than qualified for govern*
ment. They admit, that he will probably be debased by
ignorance, enervated by pleasure, intoxicated by flatty,
and corrupted by pride. They admit, that this chance
may give them a fool, a madman, a tyrapt, or a mon^
ster : and yet they hold it safer to depend on all the ca*
prices of this very chance, than to commit their fortune
and their fate to the discernment of choice.

X£GTUR£S ON LAW« 4ii

Jkmd whenor tiiis strong antipathy to choice i Popular
clamours, popular disturbances, popular disU-actions, po-
pular tumults, and popular insurrections are ever pre-
sent lo their view. The unfortunate and fluctuating ex-
ample of Poland dances perpetually before their eyes.
They reflect not on the cause of this example. Poland
Is /composed only of slaves, headed and commanded by
%few despots. Those despots have private purposes to
^nre $ and they head their slaves as the instruments for
exewting those private purposes. In Poland, we search
in vain Ibr a people. Need we ht surprised, that, at an
election in Poland, where there are only tyrants and
slaves, all the detestable and pernicious extremes of ty-
rmmy «id slavery shoiild unite i

But surely, in the United States, we have no occa-
sion to be apprehensive of such an odious and destrucr
tive union. In the United States, we have freemen and
fellow citizens. To freemen and fellow citizens^ and to
those selected, for this very purpose, by freemen and
fellow citizens, we may trust the appomtmeht of our
first and most important magistrate. In this appoint-
ment, no one can participate, either immediately or in-
directly, who does not possess a common interest with
the community. We are justified, therefore, in aban-
doning chance, and confiding in choice : our practice
corresponds with our theory ; and our theory is admit-
ted to be just. An election made by those, whom we
have described, authorized by the constitution, directed
by the laws, held oi^ the same day and for the same pur-
pose, but at different smd at distant plaees-*^uch «n
election n^ay certaiidy be carried on with fairne9s and
with regularity ; and its event may be considered as the

YOU I. 3 1.

442 LKCT0RES ON LAW.

genuine production of design, and not as the.casii;^ tt^
suit of a " lottery." ^

^.
In one important particular — ^the unity of the execu-^
tive power — ^the constitution of the United States 8tan4fl^
on an equal footing vrith that of Great Britain. In one
respect, the provision is. much more efficacious.

The British throne is surrounded by counsellors*
With regard to their authority, a profound and mysteri-
ous silence is observed. One effect, we kn<yw, they '
produce ; and we conceive it to^ be a very pernicious
one. Between power and responsibility, they interpose
an impenetrable barrier. Who possesses the executWe
power? The king. When its baneful emanations fly
over the land ; who are responsible for the mischief I
His ministers. Amidst their multitude, and the secre-
cy, with which business, especially that of a perilous
kind, is transacted, it will be often difficult to select the
culprits ; still more so, to punish them. The criminal-
ity will be diffused and blended with so much variety
and intricacy, that it will be almost impossible to ascer-
tain to how many it extends, and what particular share
should be assigned to each.

* ft

But let us trace this subject a little further. Though
the power of the king's counsellors is not, as far as I can
discover, defined or describe^ in the British constitu-
tion ; yet their seats are certainly provided for some pur-
pose, and filled with some effect. What is wanting in
authority may be supplied by intrigue ; and, in the place
of constitutional influence, may be substituted that sub>

^ See BoL Pat KiDg. 89.

XECTURES ON lA^, '443

fiSk ascendency ,^ which is acquired and preserved by deep-
ly dissembled obsequiousness. To so many arts, secret)
unceasing, and well directed, can we suppose that a
prince^ in whose disposition is found any thing weak, in-
dolent, or accommodating, willmot be frequently indu-
ced to yield? Hence spring the evils of a partial, an in-
decisive, and a disjointed administration.

In the United States, our first executive magistrate
is not obnubilated behind the mysterious obscurity of
counsellors. Power is communicated to him with libe-
rality, though with ascertained limitations. To him the
provident or improvident use of it is to be ascribed.
For the first, he will have and deserve 'undivided ap-
plause. For the last, he will be subjected to censure i
if necessar}^, to punishment. He is the dignified, but
accountable magistrate of a free and great people. The
tenure of his office, it is true, is not hereditary ; nor is
it for life : but still it is a tenure of the noblest 'kind :
by being the man of the people, he is invested ; by con-
tinuing to be the man of the people, his investiture will
be voluntarily, and cheerfully, and honourably renewed.

The president of the United States has such powers
as are strictly and properly executive ; and, by his qua-
lified negative on the legislature, is furnished with^a
guard to protect his powers against their encroachments.
Such powers and such a guard he ought to possess : but
a just distribution of the powers of government requires
that he should possess ho more. In this important
aspect, the constitution' of the United States has much
more regular, more correct, and better proportioned fea- .
turj^, than are those of the constitution 6f Great Britain*
It will be well worth while to trace this observation

444 LScnrKcs oh law^

through Tarious instances : its truth and its interecting
consequences will, by this means, cleaify appear*

As the king is the mAe fountain of honour; he
has, without limitation, die constitutioiial prerogaiiTe of
creating peers^; and of exalting to higher dignities those
already- created. He has also the power oi SKffomtimg
and promoting the bishops and archbishops. Tliose
lords spiritual and temporal form oneln-anch of the kgts-
lature. The number, therefore, and the rank of the
members composing that branch depend entirelj on die
pleasure of the crown. This is a rep^rehensible depen-
dency of the legislative on the executive power. Indeed,
experience has {uroved it to be so. A single centioy has
not yet revolved, since twelve peers were created at mie
time, with the avowed purpose of securing, by their
necessary votes, the success of a favourite court system*^
A conviction, that, on any great crown emergency,
recourse can be had -to a similar expedient, will natu*
rally lead the house of lords to be cautious, in an undue
degree, of giving pointed oppositi<»i to the crown,
however just or well grounded such opposition might
be.

Another instance of the dependency <^ the house of
lords on the king deserves to be mentioned : the speaker
of that house, whose office it. is to preside there and
manage the forms of their business, is the lord chan-
cellor, whose appointment and commissicm are at the
pleasure of the crown.

Indeed, this undue and dangerous dependency of the
bouse of lords seems to be acknowledged and dreaded —
for, in one mstance, provision is made against its efecte

tECT^HEjl Oil LAW. 445
* — jby the British constitution itself. It is the indiiptt*
table right of the house of €ommons-«-a rights over
which they have constantly watched with a jealous soli*
citude— that all grants of paiiiamentary aid begin in
their* house. Several reasons have been ditigncd for
this exclusive privilege ? ^ bat the true one, arising from
the spirit of the conslitiilion^ is this. The lords, being
created, at pleasure, hy the king, are supposed more
liable to be influenced by the crown; and, being a per*
xnanent hereditary body, are, when once influenced,
supposed more likely to continue so, than the commons,
who are a temporary body elected by the people. It
would, therefore, be extremely dangerous to give the
lor<^ any power of framing new taxes for the subject :
it suffices that they have the power of rejecting, if
they think the commons too lavish or improvident in their
grants.

^y the constitution of the United States, money bills *
originate in the house of representatives : the reason is,
that as that house are more numerous than the other,
and its members are elected more frequently ; the most
local and recent information of the circumstances of the
people may be found there. But, as the senate derive
their authority ultimately from the same origin with the
other house ; they have a right to propose and concur
in amendments in these as well as in other bills.

But further ; the power of conferring nobility is a
source of influence, which the Qrown possesses over the
house of commons, as well as over the house of Iord£*
A coronet, and all the proud preeminences and gilded
glories which encircle a coronet, are objects of ambition^
whose tempthig charms, few«^very few indeed-— are
I

446 I»XCT1llt£8 ON' LAW. *

capable of resisting. * £ven the great commoner wisbes
and sighs to b# something more. Will not his views be
directed to that power, by which alone his wishes can be
gratified? Will not his conduct receive a bias from the
longyn^ ejecting turn of bis mind i When bis towoiqg
hopes of elevation are suspended on the crown ; will he
easily run the risk of seekig th^n dashed to the ground,
by speaking, and' voting, and acting in, opposition to its
views and measures?

Wc are now arrived, In our progress, at another
fountain, from which, in Great Britain, the waters of
bitterness have plentifully flowed — I mean the fountain
of office. We reprehend not the nature of this power,
nor the place, where, by the British constitution, it is
deposited* In* every government there must be such a
power ; and it is proper, that it should be lodged in the
hands of him, who is placed at the head of the execu-
tive department. What we censure is^ that this pc^er
is not circumscribed by the necessary limitations. It
may be-^— it is exercised in favour of the members of
both houses of parliament. Offices of trust and profit are
scattered, with a lavish hand, among those, by whom a
return, very dangerous to the liberties of the nation,
may be made ; and from whom such a return is but too
often expected.

This is the box of Pandora, which has been opened
on Britain. To its poisonous emanations have been
owing the contaminated and contaminating scenes of
venality, of prostitution, and corruption, which have
crowded and disgraced her political theatre. To the
same efficacy have -been owing the indiscriminate profli-
gacy and universal degeneracy, which hd^t been diffia^

I.£CTUlt£S ON LAW. 44f

led through every chann^}^ into which the treasures of
the publick have procured admissiott. * In the house
of loipdf, this stream of influence may flow without
measure and without end. Some attempts have been
made to confine it in the house of commons ; but they
h^ve been feeble and unavailing. If any nlember of thia^
house accepts an oflice under the crown, his seat, it is
true, is vacated ; but he may be immediately reelected.
This provision, flimsy as it is, extends not to ofiicers in
the army or navy accepting new commissions. The
ardent- aspirations after military preferment are thus
left to be exerted, with all their energetick vigour, in
promoting the designs of the crown, or of the ministers
of the crown.

But fears, as well as hopes, operate in favour of tl\^
influence, which we have been tracing in so many direc-
tions. For the members hold their offices and commis^
sions, and, consequently, may be dismissed from them,
at the pleasure of the crown.

Indeed, this influence has been so great and so uniform,
that for more than a century past, it has been found, that
reliance could be placed on it implicitly. Accordingly,
during that whole period, the king has never once been
under the disagreeable necessity of interposing his nega-
tive to prevent the passing of an obnoxious law. . It has
been discovered to be a less ungracious, though not a
less efficacious method, to stop its progress in one of tht
two houses of parliament.

To the power of the crown to confer offices on mem-
]i)ers of parliament, we may also ascribe those numerous
and violent dissensions, which, on so many occasions.

4M LECTURES OH LAW»

■nd some of them Terjr crki^ oaes, kafrt couv^iked ihe
national copncilaf and SAoriftced the aatWnal interests.
Ample though the tneaas are^ wkich thd cvamM can
employ in gaining and securing members, by the oftcea
in its gift, they are insufficiest to gratify all. To ft su^
aaajority, the object most be confined. But of ^majo-
rity, gained by die interest of the court, the necessary
consequence ii, a minority in c^poskkm to its measures.'

I

The above is a plain and simple acconnt of the man-
ner^ in which the parties in pafliament have been frrsied,
and in which they hacve, without interruptiofi, beai con*
tinued ; though, ou both sides,, a veiy different account
has been uniformly attempted to be palsied upon the
publick. Neither side haa dK>sen to give a true history
and character either of themailves or of their antagonists :
each finds its interest in appearing, and in repre^entfaig
the other,, under x borrowed daess. WhXe the inflnence
of the crown, produ^bd by offices of trust and profit
bestowed upoft members of pariiament, shall continue,
this state of formed and irreconcilable parties will con-
tinue also. *

The result is, that a provision, by which the members
of the legislature will he precluded, while they remain
such, from offices, finds, with great t^opriety, a place in
the constitution of the United States. In this important
particular, it has a decided superiority over the constieu^^
tion of Great Britain.

Perhaps the qualified negative of the president of the
' United States on the proceedings of the senate and

* Itwast}iesapngo£KiAgWiiBaQi|thatifhefaadp]aoesenmi#L
to give^ tbe names of whig and tory weald soon be lost.

IBCTURES OH LAW. 440

house of representatives in ' congress, possesses adviEm*
tage^ over an absolute negative, such as that vested in
the cff>wn of Great Britain over the proceedings of the
lords and commons. To this last, recourse would not
be had, unless on occasions of the greatest emergency.
A determination not to interpose it without the last
necessity, would prevent the exercise of it in many
iBStaoces, in which it would be proper and salutary. In
this manner, it would remain, like a sword always in the
scabbard, an instrument^ sometimes of distant apprehen-
sion, but not of present or practical utility. The exercise
of the qualified negative is not an experiment of either
dangefous or doubtful issue. A snudl bias it turns with-
out noise or difficulty. To the operation of a powerful
ibias, which cannot be safely checksd or diverted, it
decently tnd leisurely gives way.

The qualified negative will be highly advantageous in
another point of view : it will form an index, by which,
fr6m time to time, the strength and height of the eurrent
of publick opinions and publick movements may, with
considerable exactness, be ascertained. Whenever it is
exercised, the votes of all the members of both the houses
must be entered on their journals. The single point,
that there is a majority', will not be the only one, which
w91 appear: it will be evinced also, how great that
-majority is. If it consists of less than two thirds of
both houses, it seems reasonable, that the dissent of the
executive department should suspend a business, which
is already so nearly in equilibrio. On the other hand, if,
after aH the discussion, investigation, and consideration,
Wbich must have been employed upon a bSl in its diifer-
ent stages, before its presentment to^e president of the
Umted States^, and after its return from him with

TOL. I. 3 ac

4i0 LECTURES ON LAW.

objections to it, two thirds of each house are still -of
sentiment, that it ought to be passed into a law ; thi»
would be an evidence, that the current of puMick 6|iinion
in its favour is so strong, that it ought not to be oppos&d.-
The experiment, though doubtful, ought to be made,
whttk it is called for so long and so loudly.

Besides ; the objections of the preddent, even when un*
successful, will not be without their use. If the law, not-
withstailding all the unfavourable appearances, which ac-
curate political disquisition discovered against it, proves,
upon trial, to be beneficial in practice ; it will add one to
the many instances, in which feeling may be trusted more
than argument. If, on the contrary, experience shows
the law to be replete with all the inconveniences, which
sagacious scrutiny foresaw in its operations, tke disease
will no sooner appear, than the remedy will be knowB

and applied.

»

Another advantage, of very general and extensive
import, will flow from the qualified negative possessed by
the president of the United Statep. His observations
upon the bills and acts of the legislature will, in a series
of time, gt^ually furnish the most valuable and the best
adapted materials for composing a practical system of
legislation. In every successive period, experience and
reasoning will go hand in hand ; and will, jointly, produce
a collection of accurate and satisfactory knowledge, which
could be the separate result of neither.

By the Bridsh constitution, the power '«f .jndgoq^ift
the last resort is placed in the hotae cif^lavda. Hii
: allowed, by an English writer on that constitution, that
there is nothing in the formation of the house of kwds;

LECTUBES ON LAW. 451

MU>T in the education, habits, character, or professions of
.|3ie members who compose it ; nor in the mode of their
appointment, or the right, by which they succeed to their
places in it, that suggests any intelligible fitness in the
nature of this regulation J £cclesiasticks, courtiers,
naval and milit^y officers, young men, just of age, bom
to their elevated station, in other words, placed there by
chance, are, for the most part, the members, who com-
pose this important and supreme tribunsd. These are
the men, authorized and^assigned to rievise and correct
the decisions, pronounced by the sages of the law, who
have been raised to the seat of justice on account of their
professional eminence, and have employed their lives
in the study and practice of the jurisprudence of their
country. There is surely something, which, at least in
theory, appears very incongruous in this establishment
of things* The practical consequences of its impropriety
are, in a considerable degree, avoided; by placing^ in the
house of lords 6ome of the greatest law characters in
the kingdom ; by calling to their assistance the opinions
of the judges upon leg^ questions, which come before
die bouse for its final determination ; and by the great
deference which those, who are uninformed, naturally
pay to those, who are distinguished by their information.
After all, however, there is a very improper mixture of
legislate and judicial authority vested and blended in
the same assembly. This is entbely avoided in the con*
atitution of the United States.
It may, perhaps, be objected, that, by this constitu*
tiosi, one branch of the legislature *is to present and the
^er is to try impeachments. The answer is obvious.

i 3. Palejr. 283. 283.

452 LSCT0AE8 OM lAWV

f

I

In^achmeots, and ofiencea and ofienders impeadisMc^
come not, in those descriptions, within the sphere of orcfr
muy jurisprudeace. They m founded on differait prii>
ctples ; are governed by different maxims » and are dixect>
ed to different objects : for this reason, die trial and
punishment of an offence on an impeachment, is no bar
to a trial and punishment of the same offence at comacKnt
law.

a

In the judicial establishments of Great Britain, there
IS, we cheerfully confess, much to admire, and much to
imitate. The judges are the grand depository of the
fundamental laws of the kingdom ; and have gained a
known and stated jurisdiction, regulated by certain and
established rules, which cannot be altered, but by act of
parliament. By the statute 13. W« III.k:. 2. ^^ An act for
the further limitation of the crown, and better securing
the rights and liberties of the subject," provision is made^
that after the said limitation shall take effect, the com*
missions of the judges shall be, not, aa formerly^ ^^duiante
bene placito," but ^^quamdiu bene se gesserint;'' that
their salaries shall be ascertained and established; but
that it may be lawful to remove them on the addrraw of
both houses of parliament. ,

Though^ in virtue of thi& law, the judges received
cottimiasiona to hold thtir oficea during their good behaip
Viour ; it was supposed, that their seata were ioianediald^
vacated by the demise of the crown. Whoi their seats
wfste vacated, dietc salaries terminated* A new com-
miAflMn, it i» true, migfat be givoi, and, if giveB, must
be given duriiig good behayiour ; but anew ocnmisskm
might also be refused, by th^ successour to the throne.
Under the new commisston, if ^en, a different salary

I^ECTUASS OK £Air. 45S

might. be asaigned. In this state of depGodeatt^ aot so
id^^grading, mdced^ as it had been, but still veiy preca^
viotts, and, as it respected the heir apparent of the thronei
vety embarrassing aad kumiliating, the judges of En^
latod GOQlinned till the first year of the reign of George
Ae third.

That Prince, soon after his accession, declared, from
^le throne, to both houses of parliament, that he looked
iqpon the independency uid uprightness of judges as
essential to the impartial administration of justice, as one
of the best securities to the rights and liberties of the
subjects, and as most conducive to the honour of Im
down* He, therefore^ recommended it to the consider*
ation of^ parliament, to make further provision for con^
tinuing the judges in the enjoyment of their offices
during their good behaviour, notwithstanding the demise
of the crown ; and for eniri)ling him to secure their sala*
jries during the continuance of their commissions* Pro*
vision was accordingly made, by parliament, for both
those purposes. But the judges are still liable to be
removed by the king, ufCai the address of bolli houses
of parliament.

This establishment for the administradon of justice
appears, in the opiniKlBi of Mr. Paley, no undisesmiiiy
jiKlge of the subject, to apprcyach so near to perfection^
as to justify Hkn in deekring;,^ that a politician, who
should sit down to delineate a plan for the dispetaiiiosr
of pdblick justice, gaajeded against all actleas to influaiea
and corruption, and hring^g togedMr the separate advsn*
tq;es of knowledge said impnrtialil^, w6ald find, when
he had done, that he had been transcribing the judicial

454 t£CTUft£B ON LAW.

constitution of England.^ ^ It may teach," contimicv
he, ^^ the most discontented among us -to acquiesce ia
the government of his countty, to reflect that die pure,
wise, and equal administratic^ of the hiws forms the first
end and blessing of social union ; and that this blessing
is enjoyed by him in a perfection, which he wyi seek in
vain in any other nation of the world*''

Notwithstanding this high encomium, pronounoMl
from a motive of which I cannot but approve, I hesitate
not to institute a comparison between the judicial
establishhient of England, and that which is introduced
by the constitution of the United States. Nay, I am
sanguine, that, on a just comparison, the latter will be
found to contain many very useful and valuable improve*
ments on the former.

The laws, in England, respecting the independency
of the judges, have been construed as confined to those
in the superiour courts. ' In the United States, this
independency extends to judges in courts inferiour as
well as supreme. This independency reaches equally
their salaries and their commissions.

In England, the judges of the superiour courts do
not now, as they did formerly, hold their commissions
and their salaries at die pleasure of the crown ; but they
still hold them at the jdeasure of the parliament \ the
judicial subsists, and may be blown to annihilaticm, by die
breadi of the legislative department. In the United
States, the judges stand upon the sure basis of the con*
adtution : the judicial department is independent of the

^ 2. Fsl^. 384.285. l l.BLCQm.36r.

tECTURES ON LAW. 455

department of legislature. No act of congress can shake
their commissions or reduce their salaries^ ^^ The judges^
both of the supreme and inferiour courts, shall hold their
ofSces during good behaviour, and shall, at stated times,
receive fdr their services a compensation, which shall
not be diminished during their continuance in dffice.'* »
It is not lawful for^the president of the United States to
remove them on the address of the two houses of con*
gress. They may be removed, however, as they ought
to be, on conviction of high crimes and misdemeanors.

The judges of the* United States stand on a much
more independent footing than that on which the judges
of England stand, with regard to jurisdiction, as well
as with regard to commisisions and salaries. In matiy
cases, the jurisdiction of the judges of the United States
is ascertained and secured by the constitution: as to
these, the power of the judicial is coordinate with that
of the legislative department- As to the other cases, by
the necessary result of the constitution, the authority of
the former is paramount to the authority of the latter.

s

It will be proper to illustrate, at some length, the na-
ture and consequences of these important doctrines con-
cerning the judicial department of the United States ;
and, at the same time, to contrast them with the doctrines
held concerning the same department in England. Much
useful and practical information may be drawn from this
comparative review.

It 18 entertaining, and it may be very instructive, to
trace and examine the opinions of the English courts

( M Cm!* U.S. art 3. 8.1.

45C * LSCTURB8 Oir t4W«

and lawyers cottceroing the decisioii, whicli may be
given, in the judicial department, upon the validity or
invalidity of acts of parliament,
•
In some books we are told plainly, and without any
circumlocution or disguise-i-tbat an act of pailiament
agiunst law and reason is, therefore, void ^ — that, in
many cases, the common law will control acts of parfiav
ment ; and sometimes adjudge them to be utterly void:
for when an act^of parliament is against common right
and reason, or repugnant, or impossible to be performed;
the common law will eontrol it, and adjudge such act
to be void. Some statutes are made against law and
right, which those who made theni perceiving, would not
put them in execution ° — that an adt^ of parliament
made agsunst natural equity, as to make a man judge in
his own cause, is void in itself; for jura naturae sutU
immutabiliay and they are leg^e$ legum. ^

My Lord Chief Justice HoU expresses himself^ upcm
this delicate and embarrassing subject, in his usual blunt
and decided manner : ^* It is a very reasonable and true
saying, that if an act of parliament should ordain, that
the same pers<m should be a party and a judge, or, which
is the same thing, judge in lus own cause ; it would be
a void act of parliament ; for it is impossible that (me
should be judge and party; for the judge is to determine
between party and party, or between the g;overn]|ient
and the party ; and an act of parliament can do no
wrong; though it may do several things, that look pretty
«ld-'**

* 4. Rq^ 13. ^ 8. Rep. 118.

?IIab.ar, 4 13. Mod. 687. 688.

LECTURES ON LAW. 437

These doctrines and sayings, however reasonable and
true they appear to be^ have been, nevertheless, deemed
too bold; for they are irreconcilable with the lately
introduced positions concerning the supreme, absolute,
and uncontrollable* power of the British parliament. Ac-
cordingly, Sir William Blackstone, on the principles of
his system, expresses himself in the following manner,
remarkably guarded and circumspect, as to the extent
of the parliamentary power. " If there arise out of acts
of parliament, collaterally^ any absurd consequences,
manifestly contradictory to common reason ; they are,
with regard to those collateral consequences, void. I
lay down the rule with these restrictions ; though I know
it is generally laid down more largely — ^that acts of par-
liament contrary to reason are void. But if the parlia-
ment will positively enact a thing to be done, which is
unreasonable ; I know of no power that can control it ;
and the examples usually alleged in support of this sense
of the rule do none of them prove, that, where the main
object of a statute is unreasonable, the judges are at
liberty to reject it: for that were to set the judicial power
above that of the legislature, which would be subversive
of all government." " No court has power to defeat
the intent of the legislature, when couched in such evi-
dent and express words^ as to leave no doubt concern-
ing its intention." ^

The successour of Sir William Blackstone in the
Vinerian chair walks in his footsteps. " It is certain,"
he admits, ^^ no human authority can rightfully infringe
or abrogate the smallest particle of natural or divine
law; yet a British judge, of highly deserved estimation,

r !• BL Com. 91.
' TOLt I. 3 K

458 LECTURES OK LAW.

seems in some measure unguarded in asserting from the
bench, that an act of parliament made against natural
equity, is void in itself. The principle is infallibly true $
the application of it, and the conclusion, dangerous. We
must distinguish between right and power; between
moral fitness and political authority. We cannot expect
that all acts of legislators will be ethically perfect ; but
if their proceedings are to be decided upon by their
subjects, government and subordination cease." '

It is very true — ^we ought to ^* distinguish between
right and power :" but I always apprehended, that the
true use of this distinction was, to show^ that power,
in opposition to right, was devested of every title, not
that it was clothed with the strongest title, to obedience.
Is it really true, that if " the parliament will positively
enact an unreasonable thing — a thing n^ianifestly contra*
dictory to common reason — there is no power that can
control it ?" Is it really true that such a power, vested
in the judicial department, would set it above the legis-*
lature, and would be subversive of all government ? If
all this is true ; what wiU- the miserable, but unavoidable
consequence be ? Is it possible, in the nature of things,
that all which is positively enacted by parliament can
be decreed and enforced by the courts of justice ? It will
not be pretended. The words in two different laws may
be clearly repugnant to one another. The law sapposes
that, sometimes^ this is the case ; and accordingly has
provided, as we are told in the Commentaries, that, in
this case, the later law takes place of the elder. *^ Leges
posteriores, priores contrarias abrogant," we are told,
and pr(^erly told, is a maxim of universal law, as well

* £1. Jur. (4to.) 48.

LECTURES ON LAVT. 459

9S of the £nglish constitutions.^ Suppose two such
repugnant laws to be produced in the sa^e cause, before
the same court : what must it do ? It must control one,
or obey neither. In this last instance, the remedy would
1>e worse than the disease : but there is not the least
occasion to have recourse to this desperate remedy.
The rule which we have cited from the Commentaries,
shows the method that shoul^ be followed. In the case
supposed, the £rst law is repealed by the second : the
ibecond, therefore, is the only existing law.

f
Two contradictory laws, we have seen, may flow
from the same source : and we have also seen, what, in
that case, is to be done. But two contradictory laws
may flow likewise from different sources. One superiour
to the other : what is to be done in this case ?

We are informed, in another part of the Commenta-
ries, that, " on the two foundations of the law of nature,
and the law of revelation, all human laws depend ; that
is to say, no human la^s should be suffered to contra-
dict these"— " that, if any human law should enjoin us
to commit what is prohibited by these, we are bound to
transgress that human law, or else we must offend both
the natural and the divine. ^ What ! are we bound to
transgress it ? — And are the courts of justice forbidden
to, reject it? Surely these positions are inconsistent and
irreconcilable.

But to avoid the contradiction, shall it be said, that we
are bound to suppose evtry thing, positively and plainly
enacted by the legislature, to be, at least, not repugnant

' 1. BL Com. 59. "" Id. 42. 43.

4(K> ^LECTUft£S ON LAW.

to natural or revealed law i This may lead us out of
intricate mazes respecting the omnipotence ; but, lam
afraid, it will lead us into mazes equally intricate and
more dangerous concerning the infallibility of paiti*-
ment. This tenet in the political creed will be found «a
heterodox as the othen

^^ I know of no power/'^says Sir William Blackstone,
^^ which can control the parliament." His meaning is
obviously, that he knew no human power sufficient for
this purpose. But the parliament may, unquestionably,
be controlled by natural or revealed law, proceeding
from divine authority. Is not this authority superiour
to any thing that can be enacted by parliament i Is not
diis superiour authority binding upon the courts of jus*
tice ? When repugnant commands- are delivered by t^o
different authorities, one infejiour and the other supe*
riour ; which must be obeyed i Wh^n the courts of jus-
tice obey the superiour authority, it cannot be said with
propriety that they control the inferiour one ; they only
declare, as it is their duty to declare, that this inferiour
one is controlled by the other, which is superiour. They
do not repeal the act of parliament: they pronounce it
void, because contrary to an overruling law* From
that overruling law, they receive the authority to pco^
nounce such a sentence. In this derivative view, tbiQir
sentence is of obligation paramount to th« act of the im
feriour legislative power.

In the United States, the legislative authority is sub-
jected to another octroi, beside that arising from nam*
ral and revealed law s it is subjected to the control ari^
sing from the constitution. From the constitution, the
legislative department, as well m every other part of

LEGTV&ES OK LAW. 461

government, derives its power : by the constitution, the
legislative, as well as every other department, must be
directed ; of the constitution, no alteration by the legis-
lature can be made or authorized. In our system of ju-
risprudence, these positions appear to be incontroverti-
ble. ^ The constitution is the supreme law of the land :
to that supreme law every other power must be inferiour
and subordinate.

Now, let us suppose, that the legislature should pass
an act, manifestly repugnant to some part of the con-
stitution; and that the operation and validity of both
should come regularly in question before a court, form-
ing a portion of the judicial department. In that de-
partment, the ^^ judicial power of the United States is
vested" by the "people," who "ordained and estab-
lished" the constitution. The business and the design
of the judicial power is, to administer justice accord-
ing to the law of the land/ According to two contradic-
tory rules, justice, in the nature of things, cannot pos-
sibly be administered. One of them must, of necessity,
give place to the other. Both, according to our suppo-
sition, come regularly before the court, for its decision
on their operation and validity. It is. the right and it is
the duty of the court to decide upon them : its decision
must be made, for justice must be administered accord-
ing to the law of the land. When the question occurs —
What is the law of the land ? it must also decide this
question. In what manner is this question to be decided ?
The answer seems to be a very easy one. The supreme
power of the United States has given one rule : a subor-
dinate power in the United States has given a contradic-
tory rule : the former is the law of the land : as a neces-
sary consequence, the latter is void, and has no operas

46S LECTUAE6 OM LAW. ,

tion* In this maimer it is the right and it is the duty of
a court of justice, under the constitution of the United
States, to decide.

This is the necessary result of the distribution of
power, made, by the constitution, between the Iqgisla*
tive and the judicial departments. The same constitu*
tion is the supreme law to both. If that constitution be
infringed by one, it is no reason that the infringement
should be abetted, though it is a strong reason that it
should be discountenanced and declared void by the
other.

The effects of this salutary regulation, necessarily re-
sulting from the constitution, are greatt and iUustrious,
In consequence of it, the bounds of the legislative pow*
er — a power the most apt to overleap its bounds— are
not only distinctly marked in the system, itself ; but
effectual and permanent provisionr is made, that every
transgression of those bounds shall be adjudged and
rendered vain and fruidess. What a noble guard against
legislative despotism !

This regulation is far from throwing any disparage-
ment upon the legislative authority of the United States*
It does not confer upon the judicial department a power
superiour, in its general nature, to that of the legislature ;
but it confers upon it, in particular instances, and for
particular purposes, the power of declaring .and en-
forcing the superiour power of the ^constitution — the su-
preme law of the land.

This regulation, when considered properly, is viewed
in a favours^ble light by the legislature itself. ^^ It has

L£GTUlt£S ON LAW* 46$

been objected," said a learned member^ of the house of
representatives, in a late debate, ^^that, by adopting the
bill before us, we expose the measure to be considered
and defeated by the judiciary of the United States, who
may adjudge i^t to be contrary to the <6onstitution, and
therefore void, and not lend their aid to carry it into
execution. This gives me no uneasiness. I am so far
from controverting this right in the judiciary, that it is
my boast and my confidence. It lea4s me to greater de*
cision on all subjects of a constitutional nature, when
I reflect, that, if from inattention, want of precision,
or any other defect, I should do wrong, there is a pow-
er in the government, which can constitutionally prevent
the operation of a wrong measure from affecting my con-
stituents. I am ' legislating for a nation, and for thou-
sands yet unborn ; and it is the glory of the constitution,
that there is a remedy for the failures even of the legis-
lature itself."

It has already appeared, that the laws, in England)^
respecting the independency of the judges, have been
construed as confined to those in the superiour courts.
In many courts, nay in almost all the court;;, which
have jurisdiction in criminal, even in capital cases, the
judges are still appointed and commissioned occasionally,
and at the pleasure of the crown. Those courts, though
possessing only a local jurisdiction, and confined to par-
;ticular districts, are yet of a general nature, and are
universally diffused over the kingdom. Such are the
courts of oyer and terminer and general gaol delivery.
They are held twice in every year in every county of the
kingdom, except the four northern ones, in which they

/ V Mr. Elias Boudinot.

464 LECTURES OK LAW. *

are held only once, and London and Middlesex, in
which thejr are held eight times* By their commis-
sions, the judges of those courts have authority io hear
and determine all treasons, felonies, and misdemeanors ;
and to try and deliver every prisoner who shall be in the
gaol, when they arrive at the circuit town, whenever
indicted, or for whatever crime committed* Sometimes
also, upon particular emergencies, the king issues a
special or extraordinary commission of oyer and termi-
ner and gaol delivery, confined to those offences which
stand in need of immediate inquiry and punishment.
Those courts are held before the king's commissioners,
among whom are usually — but not necessarily, as it would
seem— two judges of the courts at Westminster.^

It is somewhat surprising, that, in a nation where the
value of liberty and personal security has been so long
and so weU known, less care has been taken to provide
for the ind^^ndency of the judges in criminal than in
civil jurisdiction. Is property of more consequence dian
life or personal liberty ? Is it more likely to become the
selected and devoted object of ministerial vengeance or
resentment ? If peculiar precaution was necessary or
proper to ensure the independence of die judges on the
crown, one would think it most reasonable to apply that
precaution to the independence of those judges, who'^
exercise criminal jurisdiction. Even treason may be
tried before judges, named, for the occasion, and during
pleasure, by him, who, in law, is supposed to be person-
ally as well as politically dfended.

To the constitution of the United States, and to those
who enjoy the advantages of that constitution^ no judgea

"^ 4 BlCom.S66.S6r.

LSCTITIISS out LAW. 465

are known, but such as hold their offices during good
behaviour.

With regard to the institution and establishment of
juries, as well as those of judges, an advsmtage is pos-
•eased under the constitution of th^ United States,
greater dian what is possessed under the constitution of
Great Britain. This subject deserves to be placed in the
clearest and strongest point of view*

To be tried only by men of one's own condition, is
one of the greatest blessings — ^to know that one can be
tried only by sijich men, is one of the greatest securities^—
which can be enjoyed undcv any government.

If the trial of causes w«s committed entirely to one
elected body of men^ deprived, by their situation, of
faaviiig many opportu»ities of knowing particularly the
circumstances and characters of the parties, who come
befote them ; it could not be expected, that the proper
and practical adjustment of facts to persons' would, in
every instance, be made* The transactions of life will
be best investigated by a competent number of sensible
and unprejudiced jurymen, summoned and assembled for
tach particular cause* Such men will be triers not only
of the facts ; but also of the credibility of the witnesses.
They will know whom and what to believe, as well as
whom and what to hear. Truth will be estimated by the
•diaracter, and not by the number, of those, who give
their testimony. The testimony of one witness will not
•be rejected merely because it stands single ; nor will the
tciatimony of two wit^sses be believed, if it be encoun-
tered by reaa<m mad probability. These advantages of a
, yw. I. 3 o^

i

460 LECTURES OV LAW.

trial by jury are important in all causes: in crimifial
causes, they are of peculiar importance.

In criminal causes, the accusation charges not only
the particular fact« which has been committed, but alao
the motive or * design, to which it owed its origin, and
from which it receives its complexion. This design is
often so closely interwoven witH the transaction, dtat tiiie
elucidation of both depends on a collected view of pani«
culars, arising not merely from the testimony, but also
from the conduct and character of the witnesses, and
sometimes likewise from the character and conduct of
the person accused. Of such conduct and.charactc^r, men
of the same condition with that person, and probably of
the same condition with the witnesses too, are the best
qualified to make the proper comparison and estimate ;
and consequently to determine, upon the whole, whether
the conduct of the prisoner, comprehending both the
fact and the motives, is, or is not, within the mean-
ing of the law, upon which the accusation against him is
founded.

This institution does honour to hufdan policy : it is
the most excellent method for the investi^tion and dis-
covery of truth ; and the best guardian of both publick
and private liberty, which has been hitherto devised by
the ingenuity of man. Y^e are told by the celebrated
Montesquieu, that Rome, that Sparta, that Carthage—^
states, once so free and so prosperous — ^have lost their
liberties, and have perished. Their fate he holds up to
the view of other states, as « memento of their own. But
there is one consolatory distinction, which he did not
take, and which we will apply in our favour. In Rome,
in Sparta, in Carthage, the trial by jury did not exist, or

! ,'
I

y
-,*

DO NOT REMOVE

OR
MUTILATE CARD

IIPIP JMI IMPI Jl

'T'mmm


===== James Wilson - The Works of the Honourable James Wilson (ed. Bird Wilson, 3 vols, PD) (vol. 2) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/workshonourable02wilsgoog/workshonourable02wilsgoog_djvu.txt

Google

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project

to make the world's books discoverable online.

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover.

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the

publisher to a library and finally to you.

Usage guidelines

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.
We also ask that you:

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for
personal, non-commercial purposes.

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe.

About Google Book Search

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web

at|http: //books .google .com/I

I

*

■^^•atii

1^

GENERAL LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.

THE

Ha^erman Collection

OF BOOKS NSLATINO TO

HISTORY AND POLITICAL SCIENCE

JAMES J. HAGERMAN OF CLASS OF '61

IN

OF

Professor Charles Kendall Adams

IN THB VBAN

18^.

v«

WORKS /^i^

THE HONOURABLE

JAMES WILSON, L. L. D.

LATE ONE OF THE ASSOCIATE JUSTICES or THE SUFREHE

COURT or THE UKITED STATES, AKD PROFESSOR OF LAW

IN THE COLLEGE OF FRILADELFHIA.

PUBLISHED UNDER THE DmECTION ^- .

BIRD WILSON, ESQUIRE.

. ritMDAKBHTDH EST LIBEBTATIS, ^UA FRVIMUS. LICDU

PHILADEIJ^DA :

AT THB LORENZO PllESS. PRINTED FtiKBRONSOMANO CHAU

J

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA:- TO WIT.

(L. S.) "D E IT REMEMBERED, That on the fifth day of July
■^ in the twenty ninth year of the independence of tho
United States of America, Bird Wilson, Esquire, of the said
district) hath deposited in this office the title of a book, the right
whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following, to wit:

« The Works of the Honourable James Wilson, L. L. D.
<< late one of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of
<< the United States, and Professor of Law in the College of
<< Philadelphia. Published under the directionof Bird Wuson,
'^ Esquire. Lex fundamentum est libertatis, qua fruimur.
<< Legum omnes servi sumus, ut liberi esse possimus." —

Cic-
In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United States en*
titled '^ An act for the encouragement of learning by securing, the
copies of maps, charts and books to the authors and proprietors of
such copies during the times therein mentioned ;*' and also to the act
entitled « An act supplementary to an act entitled « An act ^r the
encouragement of learning, by securing the copieaof maps, charts,
and books to the authors and proprietors of such copies during the
times therein mentioned," and extending the benefits thereof to the
arts of designing, engraving, and etching historical and other
prints."

D. CALDWELL, Clerk of the
District of Pennsylvania.

%y-

'Yo-.^pC/V'vvt-ta^VU ^t^JL^Zc^

^CL^vC/V'vvfc-ea^vu

CONTENTS

OF THE

SECOND VOLUME.

PAGE.

LECTURES ON LAW.

PART I.

CHAPTER XII.
Of the common law, ^

CHAPTER Xin.
Of the nature and philosophy of evidence^ 6di

PART 11.

CHAPTER L

Of the constitutions of the United States and of Pennsylvaniap—
Of the legislative department, , 1X7

CHAPTER n.

Of the executive department^ 133

CHAPTER in
Of the judicial department, 201

"vi

CONTENTS OF fHE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER IV.

Of the nature of courts,

CHAPTER V.

Of the constituent parts of courts. — Of the judges,

CHAPTER VL

The subject continued.— Of juries,

CHAPTER VII.

The subject continued. — Of sheriffs and coroners,

CHAPTER . VIII.

The subject continued. — Of counsellors and attomies,

CHAPTER IX.

The subject continued.^ — Of constables,

CHAPTER X.

Of corporations,

CHAPTER XI.

Of citizens and aliens.

CHAPTER XIL

Of the natural rights of individuals,
299

sds
399
425
453

LECTURES ON LAW,

DELIVERED IN THE

COLLEGE OF PHILADELPHIA,

IN THE TEARS ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY,
AND ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY ONE*

VOL. IL

PART I.

CHAPTER XIl.

asase

OF THE COMMON LAMT.

«

u SaPIENTISSIMA redtempus," sajrs the profouad
Lord Bacon, ^ in one of his aphorisms concerning the
«agmentatioii of the sciences*— Time is the wisest of
tilings* If the qualities of the parent may, in any
instance^ be expected in the ofispring ; the common law,
xme of the noblest births of time, may be pronounced
&e wisest of laws. -^

This law has, at different times, and for different
reasons, been denominated by different appellations* It
is sometimes called, by way of eminence, the law of the
tttnd, ^^ lex terrs." At odier times, it is called the law
tt £m]gland. At other times again, it is called the law

"^ 1. Ld. Bacsn. 353. Aph. 32^

4 LECTURES OH. LAW.

/and custom of the kingdom. But its most general and
best known appellation is, the common law. Various
are the reasons, which have been assigned for this appel-
lation : the best seems to be this*-^hat it is the common
municipal law or rule of justice ; ^ the law which is
described in the code of king Edward the elder, a«
expressing the same equal right, law, or justice, due to

\ persons of all degrees, c

^ The term common law is not confined to the law of
England : It is not, says Sir Henry Finch^ a vr^d
new and strange, or barbarous, and proper to ourselves,
and the law, which we profess, as some mtleamedljr
would have it: it is the proper term for odier law»
also. Euripides mentions the common laws of Greece i^

f and Plato defines common law in this manner: that
which, being taken up by the common consent of a
country, is called law. In another place, he names it,
the golden and sacred rule of reason, which we call com-

^mon law.

^ This place, continues the same author, in his di^f-
course of law,"* is very notable : it opens the original
and first beginning of4he common law: it shows the
antiquity of the name ; it teaches common law to be
nothing else but common reason*-— that refined reason,

^ which is geiierally received by the consent of all^

The antiquity of the common law of England is un#
questionably very high. It is worth while to list^i to *
what may be deemed the prejadices-^ertainly die par-
donable ones—of its fond admirers, upon a point so
interesting to their partiality.

^ Hale. Hist 55. « EL Jur. (4to.) 94. « Finch, fi. 75.

X£GTURE» ON LAW. f

The redm of England, says Lord Chancellor For-
tescue,® was first inhabited by the Britons ; it was after-
wards ruled and civilized under the government of the
Romans : theii the Britons prevailed again : next it was
possessed by the Saxons : afterwai|ds the Danes lorded
it over us : the Saxons were successful a second time :
at last, the Norman conquest took place. But, du-
ing all that time, England has been constantly govern-
ed by the same customs, by which it is governed at
present. Neither the laws of the Romans, which are
celeiH^ted beyond all others for their antiquity; nor
yet the laws of the Venetians ; nor, in short, the laws
of any other kingdom in the world are so venerable for
their antiquity. So that there is no pretence to. insinuate
to the contrary, but that the laws and customs of England
are not only good, but the very best. — Thus far from
the predilection of the chancellor.

But, in truth, it is extremely difficult, if not altoge^
ther impracticable, to trace the common law of England
to the era of its commencement, or to the several springs,
from which it has originally flowed. For this difficulty
or impossibility, several reasons may be assigned. One
may be drawn from the very nature of a system of com*
iikon law* As it is accommodated to the situation and
circumstances of the people, by whom it is appointed ;
and as that situation and those .circumstances insensibly
change ; so, especially in a long series of time, a pro-
porticmed variation of the laws insensibly takes place ;
and it is often impossible to ascertain the precise period,
when the change began, or /to mark the different steps
of Its progress. ^ Another reason may be drawn from
the great number of different nations, which, at different

»DeLaud.c.l7.

6 tECl'IIJlES ON LAW.

successive periods, and somedmes even at the same
period, possessed the govemmeilt, or the divided goven^
ments of England. These added, undoubtedly, t6 the
richness and variety of the common law; but they Added
likewise to the difficulty of investigating the origin of its
different parts.

If this investigation is difficult, there is one ccmsola*
tion, that it is not of essential importance. For at what-
ever time the laws of £«igland w^e introduced, fronat
whatever person or country they were derived ; their
obligatory force arises not from any consideration of tfiat
kiQd, but from their free and volumary reception in the
kingdom.

Several writers, some of them very ingenious and
learned, think they can discover, in the. common law^
features, which strongly .indicate, that it i3 of a Grecian
cxUaction. Without adopting implicitly the authenticity
of this high descent, it may be well worth our while to
exsunine the particulars, on which the opinion is founded*
If they lead us not to this conclusion, they may, pexfiaps.,
lead us to something ebe, which will be, at leUst^ equsiUy
valuable and instructive.

The similarity between the idiom of our language and
that of the Grecians has persuaded some very sensible
men to believe, that the inhabitants of Great Britain
were, in a vbiy remote age, connected^ in some manner^
with tihe inhabitants of Greece^ This similarity is, in-
deed. Very strikisig. No one, I believe^ who is acquainted
ipth the (^eek, die Latin, and th^ Eng^iish languages,
will hesitate to declare, tbat there id a closer a£nity o£.
idiom between the Greek and the English, than between

LEGTITRXS ON LAW. 7

the English and the Latin, or between the Latin and the
Greek,

The very idea of a traditionary law, transmitted from
generatioa to generation merely by custom and memory,
may be considered as derived, in part at least, from the
practice of the Druids, who considered it as unlawful to
commit their religious inslructions to writing. But we
are informed by the penetrating and inteUigent Caesar,
that, in other business, whether of a publick or of a
prUrate nature, they used the Grecian letters—" Greecia
Uteris utuntur,^^ ^

Pliny conjectures that the name of Druid was derived
from the Greek word ?(vr, quercus, an oak, because they
performed their solemn ceremonies in the deep recesses
of groves formed by oaks ; and because, in their sacrifi*
ces, they used the leaves of those trees. > The missletoe,
it is well known, was of sacred import in their religious
mysteries.

Nathaniel Bacon, a gentleman of Gray's inn, wrote a
historical and political discourse of the laws and govern*
m^nt of England, particularly during the early periods of
its history. This discourse, we are informed, was col-
lected from^manuscript notes of Mr. Selden, so famed
for his various and extensive erudition. To the notes
of an antiquarian, so celebrated and so profound, atten*
tion will be expected in an investigation of the present
kind.

In that discourse we are told, that, though it be both
needless and fruitless to enter the lists concerning the

^ Debel.GaLL6.c.l3. s 3.Rep.Pref.9U

N

S LECTURES ON LAW*

original of the Saxons ; yet, about the time of Tiberius,
their government was, in general, so suitable to that of
the Grecians, as if not by the remains of Alexander's
army, which was supposed to emigrate into die north,
nevertheless, by the neighbourhood of Greece, much of
the Grecian wisdom was disseminated among them, be«
fore the Roman glory was mounted up to the full pitch;
and because this wisdom could never be thus imported,
but in vessels of men's flesh, rigged accorditig to the Gre-
ciian guise, it may well be supposed that there is some>.
consanguinity between the Saxons and the Greciai^
although the degrees be not known. ^

Their country, continues he, they divided into coun-*
ties or circuits, all under the government of twelve lords,
like the Athenian territory under the arcfaontes* Thesd
had the judicial power of distributive justice committed
to them, together with one hundred of the commons out
of each division. The election of these princes with
their commission was concluded inter majora^ by the
general assembly, and they executed their commission
in circuits, like unto the Athenian, h'eliastick or subdial
court, which was rural, and for the most part kept in the
ppen air. In brief, their judicial proceedings were very
suitable to the Athenian, but their military more like the
Lacedaemonian, whom, above all others, in their manners^
they most resembled. *

Austin is generally considered as the apostle of the
Saxons, who converted them to Christianity; but our
author suggests, that he was an apostle of another kind —
to reconcile them to the see of Rome. To prove this, he

k Bac. on Gov. 9. ' Id. 10.

tECTUAES ON LAW. 9

adduces a remarkable fact, that the Saxons lept Easter
^^ more Asiatico ;" and, against Austin's .will, retained
that custom fiftj years after Austin began his mission
among them J

In enumerating the different manners of trial among
the Saxons, he says, that the last and most usual one was
by witnesses, before the jurors, and their votes there-
upon: this made the verdict, and it determined the
matter in fact. In former time, questionless, it was a
confused manner of trial, by votes of the whole multi-
tude ; which made the votes hard to be discerned. But
time taught them better advice, to bring the voters to a
certain number, according to the Grecian way, who
determined controversies by the suffrages of four and
thirty, or the major part of them." ^

Speaking of a certain regulation concerning dower,
which was derived from the Latins, he says ; ^^ but the
Germans learned from the Greeks otherwise : for the
laws both of Solon and Lycurgus forbade it, lest mar-
riages should be made for reward, and not grounded on
affection." i

After having described, in detail, a number of parti-
culars relative to the Saxon government and laws, he
makes this general remark : ^' Nor did the fundamentals
alter, either by the diversity and mixture of people of
several nations in the first entrance, nor from the Danes
or Normans in their survenue ; not only because in their
original they all breathed one air of the laws and govern-
ment of Greece ; but also they were no other than the

i Bac. on Gov. 13. ^ Id. 56. i Id. 64.

VOL, II. c

V

iO LSCTURE8 ON LAW.

common dictates of nature, refined by wise m^n, which
challenge a kind of awe, in the sense of the mtost
barbarous/' "
He concludes his observations concerning the Saxon
commonwealth in this expressive manner. ^^ It was 9,
beautiful composure ; mutually dependent in ever); part
fFOii& the crown to the clown ; the magistrates being all
choice men ; and the king the choicest of the chosen ^
election being the birth of esteem, and that of merit:
this bred love and mutual trust ; which made thelaa as
comer stones, pointed forward to break the wave e£

danger.

-A

>^ Lastly, it was a regular frame in every party si|uare4
and made even by laws, which, in the people, ruled as
lex loquensy and, in the magistrate, as lex intelli^ens ^ all
of them being grounded on the wisdom of the Greeks,
and the judicials of Moses." ^

The history, says an inqui^tive writiei?^ of the coMti*
tutions of the different European nations may he nftucb
elucidated by institutions, ascertained to have existed hi
Aeir sister countries, during the corresponding periods
of their progress. The rise of the constitutions of the
Greek and Italian states wiU derive light from what ia
known of the Gaulick, German, aiiid Sc^^nkdinavisM^i tr^ibes* ^

Dr« Pettingal, in his very leaimed inquiry cpnq^imiag

the use and practice of juries, difiers from Mr. Bacoiat

with regard to the channel, through whic|i th« ^ecisn^

^ customis Qowfed into the Saxon comjaa^nwealths : h\k% him

» Bac. o» Gov. 68» >^ H^O. <> a £d«|. ^hi), Tnms. la

LSCTITRSS ON LAW. II

admits iIm those customs were origiDaUy derived from
Greece. .^^ The likeness^" says he, ^^ of the Greek and
SiPEon government, supposed to be owing to the neigh*
faourhood of Greece and Saxony, proceeded from a dif-^
ferent cause. For, as the Romans took then* laws and
iastitations from Greece, and particularly in the instance
of the heliastick court, which was a couat of trial by
jury, and on which the Romans formed their judicium
or jury ; so when they sent their colonies into Germany,
tltey sent also their laws and usages along witli them,
and by these means the wisdom of Greece and the prac*
tice of ^e beHastick court got among the Saxons in the
6ha]>e of the Roman judicia; and the plan of the Greek
government, through the channel of the Roman juris-
prudence, laid the foundation of many customs that had
a resemblance to the Greek, but in fact were no other
ihan an iii»tation of the Roman polity, which originally
was derived from Athens : so that the jui-y among the
Saxons and northern nations was derived .from the Ro-
naan jtuUda^ as the causa proocima; but both of them
drew their origin from the court of )<»#c«#, or jury,
among. <he Ck*eeks. This was the manner, in which the
resemUaace between the Saxons and Greeks, spoken of
by Bacon, was phnlttced." ^

With regard to the institution of juries, he afterwards
.observes ; ^* where shall we go, with so much propriety,
to look for its origin, as among those, who, of all man*,
kind^ Were/dte depositsu"ies and patrons of equal law and
J^erty, smd which they themselves had learned from the
wisdom and good government established in Athens by
Solon ? For nothing can be so absurd as to imagine, that

» P^t. sn Jur. 1$^ U$.

12 LXCTUESB Om LAW«

wch £. noble p<^tical structure, as had diatingBJahed the
xndy two civilized nations of Europe, and w^ose legal
limitations of power and obedience had done honour
even to human nature, shouldy in times future, be the
fi»tuitous result of a tumultuous deliberation, and tha^t
of Scythians and barbarians, rather than an indtation of
the wisdom #f those customs, whidi had been introduced
among thefn by their conquerors/' ^

The particular history of juries will find its proper
place elsewhere. Suffice \t to mention them now among
the group of institutions said to be derived from the
Grecians to the Saxons either immediately, or through
the intermediate channel of the Romans.

The laws and institutions of Greece flowed into Italy,
and were conveyed to the many different . states there*
through a va^t variety of channels.

The first inhabitants of this " terra potens vironim**
were composed of Grecian tribes, the overflowings of
their native habitations, who migrated, in early days,
into the southern parts of the Italian continent; from
this circumstance, it was denominated Magna Graecia.
These colonists brought with them their own laws and
customs. ^ These laws and customs were incorporated
into one general body, and made a part of the i^nwritten
» or customary law of Rome. " The law of the ancient
Romans," says Dr. Bum, in the preface to his book on
ecclesiastical law, ' ^^ had its foundation in the Grecian
republicks."

% Pelt, on Jar. 1S9. ^ Bever. 2. • P. 1,

LSCTUK£« OK LAW. 13

It is well known, that the Roman system of jarispru*
d^ice was much indebted to the wise and peacefvd insti*
ttttions of Noma. There was one, which produced
strong, and extensive, and lasting consequences in the
Roman republick ; and which seems to have furnished
an example for later times— the establishment of pagi or
villages^ The conquered and vacant lands he distributed
among the citizens. These he divided into districts, and
placed over each a superintendant, in order to induce
them to improve in the arts of agriculture. The conse-
quence of this wise regulation was, that the functions of
w^ and peace were frequently discharged by one and the
same person. The farmer, the soldier, and the magis-
trate were often united in the same character ; and re*
fleeted on each other reciprocal ornament. The respect-
ed citizen stepped from the plough to the consulship
without being elated ; and, without being mortified, re-
turned from the consulship to the plough. Thus the
Cincinnati were formed.

Towards the latter end of the third ccnturj' of Rome,
a solemn deputation, consisting of three commissioners,
was despatched to Athens, with instructions to obtain a
transcript of the celebrated laws of Solon, and to make
themselves fully acquamted with the regulations, the
manners, and the institutions of the other states of
Greece.'

The constitution of Athens had lately received great
improvements under the administration of some of her
most illustrious citizens, Aristides, Themistocles, and

« Livy.L3.c«31«

14 ucnnuift 09 z*Air*

CmoB; andt at tku ▼cr^ time, the ^louiid Pcfklei^
Wftt at the bead of her govenumeat*

After an<abience of about two ycai% die comma*
•ioners returned, with eopiea of the AdieaiaA lawa*
The decemvirs, of whom the commimoiiexa were
three, were then aj^inted, with lull powers to fSoonBa
and propose a digest of lawa for Roma. WHh much
alacrity and zeal they entered upon the execution of the
very important trust, with which they were invested by
their confiding country. In the arduous business, they
received the most valuable assistance from a wise Cphe-
aian, who had been driven, by the hand of envy, from
his native country ; and who, during bi» exile, had op*
portunities of personally observing the principles and
characters of men, and the establishments and forms of
society. His accumulated treasures of observation and
ireflecticm were imparted liberally to the decemvirs. The
name of Hermodorus was gratefully transmitted to poflh
terity, by a statue erected to his honour in the forum*

The code, which the decemvirs, composed, consisted
partly of entire laws tnuucribed from the Grecian odgi-
nals ; partly of such as were altered and accommodated
to the constitution and manners of the Romans; and
partly of the former laWs received and approved in
Rome. It was engraved on ten tables, and fixed up in
the'most conspicuous part of the forum ; that the whole
people might have an opportunity of perusing and ex-
amining it at their conveniency and leisure. When auf*
ficient time had been allowed for those purposes, an as*
sembly of the people was convened. In that assembly,
after invocations that what might be done should prove
happy and auspiciouato the commonwealth, the proposed

LECTURES dH LAW. 15

t
\ <

laws were read. The decemrirs declared, thtt the7had
provided, as far as their abilities could provide, that the
laws should be equal and impartial to the high and to the
low; but that on the coimsels and deliberations of the
citizens at large, more reliance could be placed ; for that
the Roman people should hare no laws, but such as
were ratified as well as ordered by the consent of all. «
The ten tables received the solemn ratification of the
people. Two more were afterwards added in a second
decemvirate. All diese formed the celebrated code of
the twelve tables ; the fountain, as Livy honourably de-
nominates them, of all puUick and private law. They
constituted the foundation of diat immense fabrick of
jurisprudence, which has extended the influence and the
glory of Rome, far beyond the limits and existence of
the Ronum power.

To the twelve tables, after some time, the resfhtua
pruAUum began to be superadded. These were the
commentaries of lawyers, who accommodated them to
the successive practice and proceedings of the courts of s
justice. ' This part of the law was denominated, iii con*
tradistinction to the laws of ^ twelve tables, the ju8 nan
9criptum^ or unwritten law ; and having no other name^
began then to be called the (mU law. By Justinian, it is
stykd the jurisprudentia media; because it intervened
between the laws of the twelve tabtea, and the imperial *

constitutions. «

In the free and happy periods of the Roman common-
wealth, great regard was paid to customary law. We

/

16 LECTURES OV LAlT*

have already seen^^ on another occasion, that it was
thought immaterial whether a hiw received the sanction
of the people by their formal suffrage, or by the uniforni
course of their conduct and manners. Thus did Jfto*
mans speak and reason while they enjoyed the blessings
of liberty. Nor did the spirit of their law change im-
mediately with the spirit of their government. Long^
after the impure air of despotism tainted the latter, the
vital principles of freedom continued the former in a to*
lerable state of internal health and soundness. Even
under the emperours, the opinions of die Roman law-
yers, and the decisions of the Roman courts, with re-
gard to property, and to the rights of private persons,
seem not to have been vitiated by the principles of their
government. The rules of justice among individual
could not prejudice, in the most remote degree, the
power or the interest of the emperouf , placed above the '
reach of all private regards ; their rights were, there-
fore, investigated and enforced with a balanced inipar-
tiality. *

I have observed, that, in the free and happy periods
of the Roman commonwealth, great regard was paid to
customary law. Even so late as the time of Justinian,
the unwritten law constituted one of the two great divi-
sions, into which the system of Roman jurisprudence
was thrown. " Constat,*'^ says the emperour, " autem
jus nostrum, quo utimur, aut scripto, aut sine scripto ;

^ Ante. vol. 1. p. 63. 64w

^ Consult Gibbon's Rom. £mp. c 44. voL 8. p. 19. and the
authorities cited in his notes.

7 Just.Int.Ll.t3.s.3ii

LECTURES ON LAW, 17'

lit apud Grsecos rvf ufuif «« ^%t fyy«^«i, U }i my^m^^i*** ^^ Our
law, which we use, consists,- like the law of the Grecians,
of what is written, and of what is unwritten." This
passage, by the by, strongly intimates, in the Institutes,
a principle of attachment and imitation operating in
favour of the Grecian system. This principle appears,
in the nokost explicit manner, from what we find in the
next section of the Institutes. ^V£t non ineleganter in
doas species jus civile distributum essevidetur; namorigo
ejus ab institutis duarum civitatum, Athenarum scilicet
et Ltacedaemoniorum, fluxisse videtur. In his enim civi-
tatibus ita agi solitvim erat, ut Lacedaemonii quidem
ea, quse pro legibus observabant, memoriae mandarent :
Athenienses vero ea quae in legibus scripta comprehen-
dissent, custodirent." " The civil or municipal law is
divided, with some degree of elegance, into two kinds.
For its origin seems to be derived from the institutions
of two states-^hat of the Athenians, and that of the
Lacedaemonians. In those states, the manner of trans-
acting their legislative business was such, that the Lace*
daemonians trus^edto memory for the preservation of their
laws ; whereas the laws of the Atheni^s were commit*'
ted to writing.'*

Concerning imwritten or customary law, Justinian
thus expresses himself. " Sine scripto jus venit, quod
usus approbavit ; nam diuturni mores, consensu utentium
comprobati, legem imitantur." ** The unwritten law
supervenes upon the approbation of usage ; for long cus-
toms, approved by the consent of those who use them
acquire the qualities of a law.'' By the way, it deserves
to be remarked here, that the expression, which, on a
former occasion, 7 I cited from an act of parliament as

^ Ants, vol 1. p. 308.
TOL. II. D ,

18 LEGTURfS ON LAW. '-

characteristick of the common law of Bngland, is the lite-
ral translation of the expression used by Justinian to
characterize the unwritten law of the Roman empire — .
diutumus-^long. The epithet immemorial is used by
neither of those very high authorities.

J

If unwritten law possessed such a dignified rank in
the system of Roman jurisprudence so late as even the.
reigpi of Justinian; we may be well justified in supposing,
that this species of law was entitled to a still greater pro-
portion of regard, four or five centuries before that time.
Four or five centuries before that time, it was extended
to the island of Great Britain.

The jurisprudence, which had been grossly adapted
to the wants of the first Romans, was polished and im-
proved, towards the latter years of the comnK>nwealth9
by the infusion and operation of the Grecian philosophy*.
The Scaevolas had been taught by precedents and expe-
rience. But Servius Sulpicius was the first civilian, who
established his art. on. certain and general principles*.
For the discernment of truth and falsehood,, he applied^
as an infallible rule, the logick of Aristotle and the
Stoicks, reduced particular cases to general principles,
and diffused, over the dark and shapeless mass, the
light of order, and the graces of eloquence.

The jurisprudence of Rome was adorned and enriched
by the exquisite gepius of Cicero, which, like the touch
of Midas, converts every object into gold. In ii^ita-
tion of PlatOj he composed arepublick : and for the usa.
af bis republick, formed a system of laws. In thift

LECTURES OV LAW« 19

^ystemr, he expatiates on the wisdom and excellency of
the Roman constitution. *

Julias Ciesar was the fitst Roman who visited the
nland of Great Britain ; and, perhaps, he had no great
reason to exult in the success of his visit. His own
account of his retreat is unitimished with a decent apo«>
logy. The poet, whose republican spirit was unbroke '
to the pliant arts of flattery, says in explicit tefms,

Territa qae^itis ostendit terga Britannis

The first foundations of an effective conquest and a
permanent settlement, which were laid in Britain under
the auspices of Rome, were those, which were begun
in the reign of the emperour Claudius. .

- The character of his administration may be thus
described. From the general tenour of his conduct it is
plain, that he contemplated the senate as the sovereign
power of the whole empire. He made many attempts
to introduce an*^ improvement of the constitution, by
reviving or reforming antiquated laws, and by enacting
salutary new ones: but these attempts he meditated and
prosecuted by the advice and with the concurrence of
the senate. So far, therefore, as the establishments in
Britain were carried on during the administration of
Claudius, it is not likely that they were marked by
circumstances of uncommon rigour or oppression. In-
deed, the acquisitions made in the island during that

* * Consult Gib. Rom. Emp. c. 44. toI. S. p. 26. 3^. and the attth<K
rities cited. .

20 l^ECTTTRKS OK lAW.: i

and some succeeding teigns were both very liimted axul-

very precarious.

* <

Julius Agricola^ who governed it in the reign of Vcs-
, l^asian, Titus, and Domitian, was the first who formed
a , regular plan for conlipleting the conquest, and render*
ing the acquisition useful to> the conquerors. Among;
the Britons be introduced the Roman civility and laws ;
be reconciled them to th^ Roman manners and language ;
he instructed them in learning and the arts ; he taught
them to know and to covet aH the conveniences and deli-*
cacies of life ; he employed every soothing contrivance
to render their fetters easy, andseveafashioiUibile. The
inhabitants, taught, by direful experience, how dispro^
portioned their military strength and military skill were
to the military strength and military skill of the Romans^
and lulled by the flattering scenes of ease and elegancet
which were exhibited to their views and wishes, acquies-
\ ced in the splendid dominion of their masters, and were
gradually incorporated as a portion of the mightyi em-*
pire of Rome. ^

Agricola disseminated the modes of Roman ^'duca*
tion among the sons of the British nobility; and impro*
ved them so well, that, in a short time, those who had
most despised the Roman language, applied with ardour,
to the study and the profession of Roman eloquence*
An affectation of the Roman dress was the natural con*
sequence ; and the gown was considered in Britain as a
splendid distinction. Luxury succeeded splendour and
refinement ; and the Britons were Romanised, without
reflecting that tb^ arts and accomplishments which were

^ 1. Giith. Eng. 40.

LSCTURSB ON LAW. 21

I. in. a Romanf were, in a Briton, servile ; and
thstt wtiat they viewed as the accompaniments of polite*
ness, were, in reality, nothii^ better or nobler than the
instruments ^ subjection. ^

The Romans held the possession and the government
of the most considerable part of Britain near four hundred
years. During that long period, a very frequent and
intimate intercommunication of marriages, manners, cus-
toms, and laws must have taken place.
•

In the whole province there are said to have been
about one hundred and fifty Roman stations.^ These
mrere connected by inferiour fortresses, erected at proper
distances, and garrisoned by regular troops. £ach of
those garrisons attracted the neighbouring inhabitants ; ^
a town or village was begun ; and a settlement was formed
indiscriminately by Roman and by native families. As
military service was often rewarded with possessions in
land, the example of the Roman officers and soldiers
must have spread the knowledge and practice of agricul-
ture, while their industry in the management of their
estates contributed to beautify and improve the face of
the country.

The connexion with Britain, which the soldiers of the
Romaniu:my formed by living in the country, was seU
dom dissolved, even when they were discharged from
the service. They had gradually acquired an attachment
to the places where they had long resided, and chose to
continue that residence where their attachment was now
formed. Their offspring became natural inhabitants;

h Tac. Agric c 21.— Millar. 16. 17. « Millar, la

\

!3d LKCTURES ON LAW.

and Britain, m this manner, received fresh*acc«8sionf oF
Romans^ to supply the place of such natives as were drawer
from it, in order to recruit the army in other provinces of
the empire.

'»

It was the policy of Rome to extend her jurisprudence
wherever she had extended hel- dominion* This policy
promoted her influence and her interest among the
vanqui^ed pirople ; and, at the same time, established
anoong them tranquillity and order. This policy was
peculiarly necessary in Britain, to prevent the private
wars, and restrain the mutual acts of violence and out-
rage, to which the inhabitants were remarkably addicted*
The introduction and establishment of the Roman laws
was unavoidably, however, a work of time. For a con-
siderable period, the Roman magistrates confined their
operations to the publick administration of the province }
while the British chiefs were permitted tb retain their
ancient jurisdiction in matters of private property, and
to determine the controversies of their tenants and
dependents.

Some writers are of opinion, that this jurisdiction was
gradually circumscribed, and, at last, entirely annihila-
ted ; and that, during the long government of the Romans,
the oi^ginal laws and customs of the Britons were disused
and forgotten. Perhaps the more probable opinion is,
that, during this extended succession of time, the two
nations became blended together in their laws and cus-
toms, as well as by their intermarriages ; so as to be
neither wholly Roman, nor wholly British. Those laws,
indeed, which related to government and the adminis-
tration of publick affairs, were^ it maybe presumed^ alto-
grether Roman.

LECTURES ON LAW. 23^

Accordingly, when the exhausted empire was obliged
to collect her last expiring efforts around the immediate
seat of Ufa and existence ; the departure of the Romans
from Britain was fatal to all the institutions of govern- ^
ment which had been formed, ripened, and established
during the long lapse of time, which we have already
mentioned. The officers, who directed and managed the
administration of the province, and the judges, who, at
least in matters relating to publick law, had acquired a
complete jurisdiction, retired froni a country, abandoned
by its master. The courts of justice were shut : govern-
ment, and the order attendant on government, were dis-
solved. The rudder of the state knew no hand, which
had a right to hold it : the vessel was, therefore, tossed
at the pleasure of the winds ai^d waves.

Time, however, and necessity gradually introduced
some form of government, though a very simple one*
The country was broken into districts, and placed under
chiefs. A general of their united forces was appointed.
Voltigem was the last, who was promoted to that high
dignity.

From the foregoing (deduction, it is highly probable,
that, at the period to which we have now brought our
remarks, the system of law in Britain, if, at that period,
any kind of law deserved the name of a system, was a
motley ndixture of iloman and British institutions. The
lang^ge, at that time used in Britain, was, as we have
every>reason to believe, a composition of the Roman and
British tongues. '

Sir William Bliackstone mentions three instances,"^ in
which the British jurisprudence bears a great resemblance

^4.BLCom.401.

24 LECTtJRES^ON LAW.

to some of tfie modern doctrines of the English law. One
is, the very notion itself of an oral unwrittenlaw, deliver-
ed down from age to age, by custom and tradition merely.
This seems derived from the practice of the Druids, who
never committed any of their instructions to writing.
This observation suggests a claim, unquestionably, to the
notion of a common law subsisting among the Britons.
But it, by no means, authorizes an exclusive claim- We
have seen that, in the pure times of the Roman common-
wealth, a customary law was known and highly respected
at Rome. At the time when the Roman law was trans-
lated to Britain, it retained its customary qualities in their
full vigour and extent.

The second instance mentioned by Sir William Black-
stone is, the partible quality of lands by the custom of
gavelkind, which still obtains in many parts of England^
and, till the reign of Henry the eighth, prevailed univer-*
sally over Wales. This, says he, is undoubtedly of Bri-
tish original. But the partible quality of lands, if not
entirely, yet nearly on the same principles, prevailed
among the Romans, as well as among the Britons. Nor
was it confined even to those two nations. The Greeks,
the Romans, as we are informed in the Comtnentaries,
the Britons, the Saxons, and even originally the feudists
divided the lands equally ; some among all the children at
large, some among the males only. ^

The third instance, mentioned by Sir William Black-
stone as of British original, is, the ancient division of the
goods of an intestate between his widow and children,
or next of kin ; which has since been revived by the sta-

* 3. BL Com. 215.

LECTURES ON LAW. 85

tute of distributions. But it is well known, that the
Matute of distributions is moulded in the form of Rojnan
well as of ancient British jurisprudence.^

^ell known is the event of the invitation, which
Voltigem ga^ve to a body of the Saxons to aid him
against his northern enemies- ^ As it has happened on
other occasions, the allies became the masters of those
w^hom they engaged to assist*

We have no complete account of the circums tances
iv^hich attended the settlement of the Saxons in Britain.
From the doleful, representations of some early and
passionate annalists, our historians, in general, have been
led to suppose, that all the Britons, who were not reduced
to captivity, were massacred by their barbarous, enemies,
or, disdaining submission, retreated among the moun-
tains of Wales, or withdrew into the country of Armo-
rica in France ; to which country, the name of Bretagne
is said to have been derived from those unfortunate
refugees. A bold and industrious antiquarian has lately
shown, however, that this extraordinary supposition is
without any solid foundation. It is, indeed, highly pro«^
bable, that many of the Britons were subjected to very
great hardship?, and were obliged even to abandon their
native soil. But it appears hard to believe, that the
Saxons should be stimulated by barbarity to proceed so
far as, contrary to their own interests, to exterminate the
ancient inhabitants. There is even complete evidence,
that, in some parts of the island, the Britons were so far
from being destroyed or obliged to fly their country, that
they were permitted to retain a certain proportion of

f 3. BL Com. 516. 517. Bever. 483. s 3. WhiUk. 545.
TOL. II. S

S6 LECTURSIS ON LAW.

their landed property. This proportion, a third part of
the whole, was the same with that allotted to the ancient
inhabitants, in some of those provinces on the continent
of Europe, which were conquered by the other German
tribes.

The language, which spread itself among the Saxons
after their settlement in Britain, contained a great pro<-
portion of the Latin and British tongues. This large
infusion of those different ingredients into the same lan-
guage, is, of itself, a strong proof, that the inhabitants
were compounded of the different nations, by whom
Ao^e tongues were originally spoken. ^

The victorious Saxons were less civilized than the
conquered Britons. The latter gradually communica-
ted to the formet a portion of that refinement, which had
not been entirely effaced from thetaiselves. At last, after a
lapse of near two centuries, the two nations, by habits,
treaties, commerce, and intermarriages, were entirely
blended together ; and their union produced such a com-
pound system of manners and customs, as might be ex-
pected totirise from the declining state of one, and the
improving state of the other. This blending principle
would have its effect upon the law^, as well as upon the
manners and habits of both nations. The conquerors
and the conquered would be incorporated into one peo-
ple, and compose, as the antiquarian ^ before mentioned
expresses himself, a mingled mass of Saxon Britons and
British Saxons.

We are told of three kinds of. laws uscid in England
during the government of the Saxons : the Mercian law,

^ 3. Whitak. 235. 230. i 2. Whitak. lit

tCCTURES ON LAW*' tf

whleh contained the local constitutions of the kingdom
of Mercia; the Dane law, which comprised the cus*
tosas introduced by those, whose name it bore ; and the
^We^t Sasoti law, a system compiled by Alfred the
Great; whose elevated and extensive talents were em*
ployed, in the most vigorous manner, for the improve-
ment of the \aLWh and constitution of his country.

These three systems of law were diiferent, rather in
unessential forms, than in important principles. For
this we have the authority of the very learned Spelman*
^' Our Saxons, though divided into many kingdoms, yet
wore th^ all one, in effect, in manners, laws, and km-
guage: so that the breaking of their government. into
many kingdoms, or the reuniting of their kingdoms int^
a monarchy, wrou^t little or no change among them,
touchixig laws. For though we talk of the West Saxon
law, the Mercian law, and the Dane law, whei:eby the
west parts of England, the middle parts, and those
of Suffolk, Norfolk, and the north were severally go-
verned; yet held. they all a uniformity of substance,
differing rather in their mulcts, than in their canon, that
is, in the quantity of fines and amerciaments, than in
the course and frame of justice.^'^

These distinct codes were afterwards reduced into
one uniform digest, for the use and observance of the
whole kingdom. This digest was undertaken and com«
sikCJiced by King Edgar : ft was completed by his grand*
3on, King Edward ; and has been since well known and
. distinguished by the appellation of the Confessor's laws*
It is conjectured to have been chiefly a revival of the

3 3. Henry. STSr. 278. eitcs Spel ReL p. 49.

3S LEOTXTBKS ON XAtf# >• »

^*r

code of the great Alfred, accompanied with suetai im-
provements as were suggested by subsequent experience*

^ We have now brought tfie hisfory of the comi6o<i
law down to the period of the Norman conquest.* W^
have seen its rise taking place, by skrw degrees; in ages;
very remote, and in nations very diflFefent ^m one ano-
ther. ^ We have seen it, in its converging progress, run
intp one uniform system, mellowed by time and improvetl
by experience. In every period of its existence, we
find imprinted on it the most distinct and legible charac-
ters of a customary law— a law; produced, extended,
translated, adopted, and moulded by practice and *j0a^

. sent.

The period through which we have gone is, indeed^
peculiaiiy interesting. ^^ The whole period of our na«
donal history before the conquest,'' says an English wri-
ter, ^^is the most important an^ momentous in our
annals. It most forcibly lays hold upon the passions by
the quick succession and active variety of incidents, and
by the decisive greatness of its revolutions. And, what
is much more, it is that period of our history, which
gives the body and the form to all the succeeding cen-
turies of iu It contains the actual commencement of
every part of our publick and private economy." ^

Here we make a pause in the history of the common
law. To pursue it minutely from the Norman conquest
to the accession of the Stuart line would be a tedious,:
a disagreeable, but, fortunately, it is an unnecessarjr
task.

^ 1. Whitak. f»ref. r.

lirCTU&fB ON hAW4 29

Th« comtiion law, as now received in America, bears,
hi lt9 principles, and in many of! its more minute parti*
culars, a stronger and a fairer resemblance to the com-
mon law 39 it was improved under the Saxon, than to
that lawy as it was disfigured under the Norman govern-
ment. How much it was disfigured, and why we should
not reoeive it in its disfigured state, will appear from the
Showing very interesting part of Sir William Black-
stone'» Commentaries.

^^ The liAt and most impoituit alteration, introduced
by the Norman conquest, both in our civil and military
poUty, was the ingrafting on all landed estates, a few
only excepted, the fiction of feodal tenure ; which drew
after it a numerous and oppressive train of servile fruits
and appendages ; aids, reliefs, primer seisins, wardships,
marriages, escheats, and fines for alienation; the ge-
nuine consequences of the maxim then, adopted, thatali
the lands in England were derived from, and holden,
mediately or immediately, of the crown.

^^The nation, at this period, seems to have groaned
iibder as absolute a slavery, as it was in the power of a
warlike, an ambitious, and a politick prince to create.
The consciences of men were enslaved by sour ecclesi-
asticks, devoted to a foreign power, and unconnected
with the civil state under which they lived ; who now
imported from Rome, for the first time, the whole farra-
go of superstitious novelties, which had been engendered
by the blindness and corruption of the times, between
die first mission of Augustin, the monk, and the Nor-
man conquest.

** The ancient trial by jury gave way to the impious
decision by beetle. The forest laws totally restrained all

so LECTURES ON LAW.

rural pleasures and manly recreations. And in cities
and towns, the case was no better; all eompany being
obliged to disperse, and fire and candle to be extingitish-
ed, by eight at night, at the sound of the melancholy
curfew.

^' The ultimate property of all lands, and a considera-
ble share of the present profits, were vested in the Is^ing^
or by him granted out to his Normal^ fayourites i who^
by a gradual progression of slavery, were absolute vas*
sals to the crown, and as absolute tyrants to the com-
mons. Unheard of forfeitures, talliages, aids, and fines
were arbitrarily extracted from the pillaged landholders^
in pursuance of the new system of tenure. And, to
crowh all, as a consequence ot the tenure by knight ser*
vice, the king had always ready at his command an
army of sixty thousand knights, or milites; who were
bound, upon pain of confiscating their estates, to attend
him in time of invasion, or to quell any domestick in-
surrection.

*^ Trade, or foreign merchandise, such as it then was^
was carried on by the Jews and Lombards ; and the very
name of an English fleet, which king Edgar had rendered
so formidable, was utterly unknown to Europe : the na-
tion consisting wholly of the clergy, who were also the
lawyers ; the barons, or great lords of the land ; the
knights or soldiery, who were the subordinate landhold-
ers; and the burghers, or inferiour tradesmen, who,
from their insignificancy, happily retained, in their so-
cage and burgage tenure, some points of their ancient
freedom. All the rest were villains or bond men.

*^ Fr<Hn ^o complete and well concerted a scheme of
^rvili<y, it has been the wprk of generaticms for ouf

LECTURES ON LAW. 31

$mcestors, to redeem themselves and their posterity into
that state of liberty, which we now enjoy ^ and which,
therefore, is not to be looked upon as consisting of mere
encroachments on the crown, and infringements of the
prerogative, as some slavish and narrow minded writers
in the last century endeavoured to maintain ; but as, in
general, a gradual restoration of that ancient constitu-
fion, whereof our Saxon forefathers had been unjustly
deprived, partly by the^iolicy, and partly by the force,
of the Norman," *

From the deduction, which we have made, it appears,
I think, in a satis&ctory manner, that the rich composi-
tion of the common law is formed from all the different
ingre£ent8, which have been enumerated; yet, when
we descend to particular principles and rules, it is very
difficult, it is often impossible, to ascertain the particular
source, from which such rules and principles have been
drawn. That some of our customs have been derived
from the Grecians, though pobably th.rough the inter-
mediate cbamiel of the Romans ; that others of them
have been derived immediately from the Romans, others
from the Britons, others from the Saxons, and others,
in fine, from the Normans, seems to be evinced by the
reasonable rules of historical credibility. But to say that
such or such a particular custom has descended to us
from such and such a particular origin, would be often
to hazard too much upon imcertain conjecture. It may,
however, be done sometimes, upon facts and arguments,
which are clear and convincing : and whenever it can be
done, it will amply repay all the care and trouble of the
investigation. As has been already mentioned, the most

1 4.Bl.Com,4U-413.

32 LECTURES ON LAW*

proper way to teach and to study the common law, is t»
teach and tb study it as a historical science. -> Under
many titles, we shall have an opportunity of pursuing tiiis
method.

Besides those particular instances ; of which notice
will be taken afterwards; there is one pretty general
distribution of the common law, according to whtchl^
different parts of it may be referred to different
nations, by whom, in all probability, they were intro-
duced.

The original fi^me of the British constitution, dif-
ferent, indeed, in many important points, from what-
it now is, and bearing, to some of the constitutions
which have lately been formed, and established in Ame-
rica, a degree of resemblsmce, which will strike and
surprise those who compare them together— -this vene-
rable frame may be considered as of Saxon architecture.
To a Saxon origin may also be ascribed much of that part
of the common law^ which relates to crimes and puxiirit-
ments. One lovely feature, in particular, we have the
pleasure to recognise. The ancient Germans, of whom
the Saxons composed a part, discriminated punishments,
as we are informed by Tacitus, *" according to the kind,
and proportioned them according to the measure of the
crime. " Liberty,** says the celebrated Montesquieu, **
^^ is in its highest perfection, when criminal laws derive
each punishment from the particular nature of the crime.'*
With regard to this very interesting part of the law, very
wide deviations from Saxon principles have been made

'^ De mor. Germ. c 19. & Spir.Lawi.l». 1% g.4.

I.E1CTURES «|» LAW. ,33

_ «

ixk the English criminal code ^^ 9inee.-.lhe period of the

«

N'ortnan conquest.

The common law, as it respects contracts and per«>
soxial propertjr, discovers evident traces' of the Roman
Jci»fa:udesLce. It has b#)en the opinion of some, that
those parts of the common law have been borrowed from
th« dnril law, subsequent to the grea( legislative era,a
"whenthe pandetis of Justinian were discovered at Amalfi:
I suggest, merely for consideration at present, a conjec-
ture, that many of those parts were incorporated into
the .common law, during the loog period of near four
centuries, when th&JlomaA jmrisprudence predominated
in England.

Much of the common law respecting real estates, as
it has been received in England since the time of William
the Conqueror; and a considerable part of it, as it is
still received Iq. that kingdom, particularly the feudal
principles and policy, should be -referred to a Norman
extraction.

Concerning, the period, at which the feudal system
was introduced into England, there has been long and
learned controversy among lawyers and antiquarians.
" At the close of the first century^," says Whitaker in his
History of Manchester, " our tenures in Britain appear
undeniably to have been purely military in their design,
and absolutely feudal in their essence. The primary
institution of feuds is unanimously deduced, by our his-
torical and legal antiquarians, from the northern invaders
of the Roman empire ; and the primary introduction of

« About the year 1130.
VOL, II. r

34 UteTUMi^ON LAW.

thcon into this irfhir* i^ ^In^oa^ -^ unanimously referred
to the much more recent epochs oC the, NorpsaA caoquest*
But tbey certainly existed among us before, and even
formed th^ primitive establiakn^ent oi the Britons*"
^' They mitslJiKve existed -^peval with the fini^jplanta<»
tion of the islandi^ Tliiy* vfem plainly th^ joint rfHilt af
a colonizing audita mJiit^Ty spirit. The fornoier pi^gviden-
tially animated tile ^rst.4age4 of the; J^oichid% iras
constantly prosecuted under the-idisciplhie of regular or-
der, and the control of fegal fiMharj^ty^ and had whole
regions to partition amo^ • tha QMNcnbeni of the colony.
The latter wis excita^ bjF Ihf fre^^fit u^girations of,
colonists and the numerous tavaaWMtS'ofiaeedtinenta ia
the same ages, and naturally provided for tbt s^curit^
of the colony, by the institution of a military «stablis)K
ment.*' ** . ;

• • ... ' •'

From Mr. Whitaker's own account^ it afKpeaers tbatkie
is singular in his sentimenli^ with regard«jto the antiqiMty
of the feudal aystem. Indeed, if his senlimema .are
well /bunded, that system must have been coeval and
coextensive with* society itself. But from the account
which we have already*^ given of the ^origMa and first
principles of society, the inference, we apprehend, may
be fairly made, that its first ages were ages nSi equality^
perhaps of some culpable degree of license. The opi-
nion is indeed singular^-that rule and subordination in
the extreme, in other words, tyranny and slavery, sboiiikl
be necessarily extended with the extension of thehumaa
race.

It i& remaikable^ however, that this very writer
tnakes, with regard to the Saxons, a peculiar exception

P 1. Wbitak.262. 364. "i Ante. vol. 1. p. 306^
LEtmnMi ow iTAJir. 35

horn thi» gvaerat and ahiMtt univeryal sfttem. ^^ No
traces," says he, ^^ of the ^limitive feuds appear visible
kmoDg^^M Saxons; and tbey ifdem to have been the only
naticKii of Germany that did not plastt^them in their con-
^etfU*^' ** His conjecture^ therefore, is, tbat the Saxons
had adopted this improvement from the BfitlPns. He
^Ii|>re8ents the whole' Saxot^ system, in consequence of
this adoption, as infornied /mtA one strong pdnciple of
stibdVdinatibB, w'^ich diiFased itslMcwiiceVhroiigh every
part^ and formed a scale of diej^elidencfc * from the sove-
rvignrto'the villain/ Thus,* one emtinued chain of
subordination was carried regularly from thft villain to
the monarch ; the higher ftak tiCAe wfiole being fastened
to the foot of the throne^ and keeping the whole machine
of Hftlional power steiklily depend:ent from'ic.*

Others inform lis, and afij^rentty on better grounds,
that in the early ages of society, estates in land were
f§ee; dntt^-th^^^Were bilA.inr. ptdpllety, and not by
tenure; *that tliijrwere btfreditary as^dl as free; that
such "vl^rt ^mM^iAtmamoii^ Grea§9,^tT!o Romans,
mAytiriJkltbatl^ dm 9m^m 1 4bMH Mtlmg tW latter,
Aey #err rii|<MWi 4ttii iltii at ftp Utami a of the own-
er, *lLnd deiMtUs hy Will. Ttic Saxoss were absolutely
niast«4s«if th4#MlH andAirere n0b obliged to transmit
it to lAm blood which ^he donor • Intended to favour,
it waa stUl, tiowever, tonsidered as the property of a
ciftizWt .and}"' therefore, '-subjected its owner to the
general obligation ^of taking arms in defence of his
coitHitrfi

The (Kfferences between, estates in land under the
Saxon government, and those which were held under

r 2. Whitak. 153. ■ Id. 157. 158.

36 LECTURES 4>lf^LAHKr.

that of the conqueror, will htt phi^n and striking by a short
enumeration and contrast; Before the conquest, lands
were the absolute -proprieties of the owners ; ih&f could
be devised and transferred at pleasure. No wardship or
marriage was due or exacted. In all these things, ^n
alteratidn was made on the introduftion of the feudal
tenures. Lands could not be alienated without the coqr
sent of the superiour : they could i^ot be devised by wifl..
The heir had notrigbt to enter into the inheritance of
his ancestor, utitil he ]|ad paid a relief, and had beea
adniitted by his lord. As to landed estates, therefore,
the law introduced by the conqueror might well be deno-
minated a new, ^ Norman law.

At common law, too, all inheritances were estates in
fee simple ; of diiFerent kinds indeed, qualified and con*
ditional, as well as absoluto^'

ft

^^ When all etftates wer« fee simple^". 69.3F8 my Lord
Coke, >^thei^ were purchasers sure*o£itheir purchases,
farmers of titeir liases, caeditgpt •£ tbtticdebts : «nd for
4hese, and otbir like cdbsesf bp^e wisdomof ^ common
law, all estates of ioJiflritanaMpere fee^sin^yle: and what
contentions and mischieft have crept ji^^the quiet of
the law by these fettered inlieritancas^ . dUtly ez^rience
teacheth us." * ^».

mr*

^' Out of all the books and reports of the common
law," says the same very experienced judge, ^^ I have
observed, that though sometimes by acts of parliament,
and sometimes by invention and contrivance of men,
some points of the ancient common law have been divert**

* 3. Ins. 333. » l.Ins. 19 b.

lECDURES ON LAW. 3/

ed from its proper channel ; y^t, in the revolutions <^
time, it has been, with much publick satisfaction, and to
avoid many great inconveniences, been restored to its
proper and aftciant course. For example ^ the wisdom
of the common law was, that all estates of inheritance
should be fee sijyiple, so that one man might safely alien,
demise, and! contract to and with another. But the
statute of Westminster the second created an estate tail,
aftd made a perpetuity by act of parliament, restraining
tenant in tail from aliening or demising, but only for*^his
own life. This, in process of time, introduced such
trouble and mischief, that, after two hundred years,
ivecessity discovered a method, by law, for a tenant in
taU to alien.

^^ In like manner, by the ancient common law, free-
holds could not pass from one to another but by matter
of record, or solemn livery of seisin. Against this, how-
ever, uses were invented, and grew coinmon and almost
universal, in destruction of the ancient common law in
that point. But, in time, the numerous inconveniences
of this being found by experience, the statute of 27. H.
VIII. c. 10. was made to restore the ancient commonlaw,
in this particular, as expressly appears by the preamble of
the statute itself. Of the same truth,, an infinity of other
examples might be produced ; but these shall, at present,
suffice."^

We have mentioned the common law, as a law which
is unwritten. When we assign to it this character, we
nieannot that it is merely oral, and transmitted from age
to age merely by tradition. It has its monuments in

r

V S. Rep. Pref, 18.

tt lliCTITRCS X)X LAir;

writing; imd its written tnonufnetits ^« aecutate ^axid
suthentickk But though, in many cases, its evidence rests^
yet, in all cases, its authority rests not, on thpse written
monuments. Its authority rests tm receptimi, apprcrfsa^
tiofi, custom, long and estaiUished. The same princf{ddS,
which establish.it, ehmige, efnlarge, improve, and repeal
it* These operations, however, *!ie, for the most part,
gradual smd imperceptible, partial and successive in a
kmg tract of time.

It is die characteristick of a system of common law,
that it be accommodated to the circumstances, the exi-
gencies, and the conveniencies of the people^ by whom it
is appointed. Now^ as these circumstances, and exigen-
cies, and conveniencies insensibly change j a proportion-
ed change, in time and in degree, must take.{dace in the
accommodated system. But though'-the s;^stem siiffist
these partial and successive alteraticms, yet k continujst
materially and snbstantially the same. The ship of the
Argonauts became not another vessel, though 'ahnost
every payt of her materials had blten altered during the
course of her voyage. •' • > • . ' . ^

Agaunrwe ?re taught both by observa£itmnaiid'lp^
experience, that tkc^&rthar laws rtach frdtniliielr Qr%!fl^
institutions, the more bttensi^ and^tke more nuteeroiis
they become. In the first association of a community^
their prospect is not enlarged, their wants are compara-
tively fsw: but as tiae society iacyeasee, their views
expand, smd their wishes multiply i wlAt is the conse-
quence ? New laws and provisions^ miied to the growing
multitude of successive exigencies, must beinade« Tbe
system, of course, becomes larger and more complex.

HCCTURES OK LAW* d§

The. same principle of accommodation in a system of
common lawy will adjust its improvement to eyeiy grade
and species of, improvement made by the people, in con*
sequjene^ of practice, commerce, observation, study, and
refinement. As the science of legislation is the most
noble, so it is the most slow and difficult of sciences. The
jurisprudence of a state, willing to avail itself of expe«
rience, receives additional improvement from evxry new
situation, to which it arrives -, and, in this manner, attains,
iu.the progress of time, higher and higher degrees of per*
fection, resulting fropi the accumulated wisdom of agesi
The illustrious legislators, who have illuminated the poli-
tical world, such as Solon, Numa, Lycurgus, collected
the customs which they fou2id already adopted, and dis«
posed them regularly, with the necessary amendments
and illustrations.

The same principle of accommodation, which we have
already traced in so many directions, may be traced in
still one direction more. It silently and gradually intro*
duces ; it silently and gradually withdraws its customary
laws. Disuse may be justly considered as the repeal of
custom. Laws, which are long imobserved in practice,
become^ laws, which are antiquated in theory. " On
strong grounds this rule is received, that laws may be
abrogated, ,not only by the express declaration of the
legislature, but, through desuetude, by the tacit consent
of all." ^ A law ought not, indeed, to be presumed
obsolete; upon slight pretences ; but, on the other hand,
a total disuse, for a long period of time, may be justly
considered as a sufficient reason for not carrying into
«ffi&ct a disrespected and neglected ordinance.

^ D.l.l.t.3.L3S.p.l.

40 UCTURES ON LAlr. '

^^ It has happeiied to the law^ as to other productions
jof human invention, particularly those which are closeljr
connected with the transactions of mankind, that the
, changes wrought by a series of years have been gradu-
ally rendering many parts of it obsolete; so that the
systems of one age have bepome the objects of mere
historick remembrance in the next. Of the numerous
volumes that compose a lawyer's library, how many arc
consigned to oblivion by the revolutions in opiniqps. and
practice ; and what a small part of those, which are. still
considered as in use, is necessary for the purposes of
common business 1" *

There are some great eras, when important and very
perceptible alterations take place in the situation of men
and things : at such eras, the accommodating principle^
which we have so often mentioned, will introduce simi-
lar and adequate alterations in the rules and practice of
the common law. Such considerable changes, together
with their extensive influences, diffuse, over many parts
of the system, a new air and appearance. At some of
:^ose eras, the improvement is as rapid as the change is
gfe^w. Why should not the present age in America,
form onetsC those happy eras \

During many — ^very many revolving ceiituries, the
common law has been the peculiar and the deserved fa-
vourite of the people of England. It suffered much, as
we have seen, from the violence of the Norman con-
quest i but it still continued the theme of their warmest
praise, and the object of their fondest hopes. Its com-
plete restoration was the burthen, of every memorial, and

^ !• Reeve. Pre£ 1. Roll. Prtt 3— 5,

I.ECTURES OK LAW. 41

the prayer of every petition. The knowledge of this
law formed a considerable part of the little learning of
the early and unenlightened ages.

Those, who had received the best education, says
Selden^ in his disiertation on Fleta, ^ applied themselves
assidsB^usly to the study of the ancient £ngli$h laws and
mamaers, which related to government and t{ie adminis-
traction of civil affairs. From such characters judges
and licensed advocates were selected. These liArs and
manners were taught in the private families of the most
iflustrioos cbaittcterB of the kingdom, in monasteries, in
colleges^ in universities. They had no acquaintance
with ihe Theodosian or Justinian codes. They taught
only the manners of our ancestors, and that law, which,
even before the period of which we speak, and down to
our own times, is kown by the name of the common
law of England.

•

The affectionate manner, in which the great and good
LtOrd Chief Justice Hale speaks of this law, recom-
mends it and him with equal warmth. He introduces
it — as the common municipal law of the kingdom — as
the superintendent of all the particular laws known in
any of the courts of justice— as the common rule for the
administration of publick affairs in that gr^at kingdom—-
as the object, of which that great kingdom had been al«
ways tender ; and with great reason ; not only because it
is a very just and excellent law in itself ; but also be-
cause it is singularly accommodated to the frame of the
English government, and to the disposition of the Eng-
lidi nation. As such, it is by a long ejcperience, iacor-

y c 7. s. T»

vox,* II. G

^

451 rECTURES OH LAW.

«

porated into their very temperament, and has become
the constitution of the English commonwealth. ^

In the natural body, diseases will happen ; but a due
temperament and a sound constitution will, by degrees,
work out those adventitious and accidental diseases, and
will restore the body to its just state and situation* So
is it in the body politick, whose constitution is animated
and invigorated by the common law. When, through
the «nburs, or distempers, or iniquities of men or times,
the peace of the nation, or the right order of govern*
ment have received interruption ; .the common law has
wrought out those errours, distempers^ and iniquities i
and has reinstated the nation in its natural and peaceful
state and temperament.

The best kings of England have been, always jealous
and vigilant to reform what has, at any time, beeh found
defective in that law; to remove all obstacles, which
could obstruct its free course ; and to support, counte-
nance, and encourage it, as the best, the safest, and the
truest rule of justice in all matters, criminal as well as
civil. •

We have seen bow much the common law has been
loved and revered by individuals, by families, and by
the diiferent seminaries of education throughout £ng.
land : let us now see how much it has been respected by
even the legislative power of the kingdom.

On a petition to parliament .for redress,, in the thir*
teenth year of Richard the second, the following re*

> Hale. WmL 44. » Hale-Hist 44. 45.

LECTURES ON LAW. 4^

ttiarkable judgment of parliament is entered-— It appeara
to the lords of parliament, that the petition is not a pro-
per petition to parliament ; since the matter contained in
k ought to he deterawaed by the common law: and*
therefore, < it vr^ .awarded, that the party petitioning
should take nothing by his suit in parliament ; because he
might sue at common-law, if he thought proper. ^

We tiave viewed, in a number of instances^ the aew
commodatiag spirit of the common law. In' other in-
stances its temper is decided and firm. The means are
varied according to times and circumstances; but the
^eat ends of liberty are kept steadily and constantly in
view, ; ■ • ' •

Its foundations, laid in the most remote, antiquity,
4iave mot been overtomed by the successive invasions, or
migrations, or revolutions which have taken place. The
reason has been already hinted at : it contains the com-
mon dictates of nature, refinecT by wisdom and experi-
ence, as occasions offer, and cases arise.

In all sciences, says my Lord Bacon, ^ they are the
soundest, that keep close to particulars. Indeed a sci-
ence appears to be best formed into a system, by a num-
ber of instance^ drawn from observation and experience,
and reduced gradually into general rules ; still subject,
however, to the^ successive im*provements, which future
observation or experience may suggest to be proper.
The natural progress of the human mind, in the acqui- '
sition of knowledge, is from particular facts to general
principles. This progress is familiar to all in the busi-
ness of life ; it is the only one, by which real discoveries

b Hale. Hist. 46. 47. "^ 4. Ld. Bac 5.

44 LECTURES ©N !« Air. »

kav^ been made in philosophy ; an^ kis the one, -whieh
has directed and superkitesded the ii^smration of the
common law. In this view, cottmion law, Hk^ natutfid
philosophy, when propei^ly sl^idMl, b a sdenoe faiuido41
<m experiment. The latter mt in^Hrov«ii"and establifiheii
by carefully and wisely attending^ to ttie phenometia ef
the material world ; the former, by aKtendiag, in the stolid
manner, to those of man and socie€y. Hence, in both^
the most regular aond unikviating principles will befeund,
on accurate investigation, to guide and x^^atpci the modt
diversified and disjointed appelMnces.

( f • •

* t

How steadily and how effectually has the spirit c^
Fiberty animated the common law, in all the vicissitudcfs,
revolutions, and dangers, to which that system has been
exposed ! In matters of a civil naturen, tieat^ystrar w^rictr
Jisetf pure by rules drawu from the'^omntaUl of justice f
m matters of a political natdre,' it '^worki itself pure \yf
rides drawn from the fountain of freedom.

It was this spirit, Vrfiich dictated the frequent atid
formidable demands on the Norman princes, for the
complete restoration of the Saxon jurifiprudaiee : it
was this spirit, which,* in magna charta, manifested a
strict regard to the rights of the commons, as well as to
those of the peerage : it was this spirit, which extracted
sweetness from all the bitter contentions between the
rival houses of Lancaster and York : it was this'spirit,
which preserved England from the haughtiness of the
Tudors, and from the tyranny of the Stuarts: it was
this spirit, which rescued the States of America from
the ojqiressive claims, and from all the mighty eSorts:
made to enforce the oppressive claims, of a British
parliament.

LECTURES ON LAW. 4S

Tlie common law of England, says my Lord Coke^i
is a social system of jurisprudence ; she receives other
laws and systems into a friendly correspondence: she
associates to herself those, who can comnmnicate to her
information, or ^ive her advice and assistance. Does a
question arise before her, which properly ought to bo
resolved by the law of nations? By the information
received fk'Otil that law, th^ question will be decided:
for the law of liatidhs, is, in its full extent, adopted by the
Common law, and deemed and treated as a part of the
law of the Ismd. Does a mercantile question occur?
It is det^mined by the law of merchants. By that law^
controversies oencetning bills of exchange, freight, bot-
tomry, and eilsurtmces receive their decision* That law
is indeed a ^rt of the law of nations ; but it is peculiarly
iq>propriated to the sifbjeets before mentioned. Disputes
concerning pri^^es, shipwrecks, hostages, and ransom-
bills, are, under the auspices of the common law, settled
and adjudged by the s£Kme . universal rule of decision*
Does a cotitract, in litigation, bear a peculiar reference
to the local laws of any particular foreign country ? By
llie local laws of that foreign country, the common law
will direct the contract to be interpreted and adjusted*
Does a cause arise within th^ jurisdiction of the admi-
ralty ? Within that jurisdiction the civil law is allowed
its proper energy and extent,

But^ while At {knows and performs what is due to
dbets, the common law knows also and demands what
is due to herself. She receives her guests with hospitality;
but she receives them with dignity. She liberally dis-
pexfses her kindness and indulgence ;-^but, at the same

^ Rep, 28. Calvin's Case..
46 LECTyllES OK LAW.

time, she sustains, with becoming and unabating firm-
ness, the preeminent character of ;f rawer /tf^f.

There is much truth and good sense, though there is
some quaintness of expression, in the following encomium
of the common law, which I take from my Lord Coke* *
^^ If all the reason, that is dispersed into so many several
heads, were united into one, yet could he not make such
a law as the law of England is ; because by nnany sucoes*
sions of ages it has been fined and refined by an infinite
number of grave and learned men, and by long«xperience
grown to such a perfection for the. government of this
realm, as the old rule may be justly verified of it, nemi-
nem oportet esse sapientiorem legibus: no man ought
to be wiser than the law, which is the« perfection of rea-
son." Indeed, yhat we call human reason, in general^
is not so much the knowledge, or experience, or infor*
mation of any one man, as the knowledge, and experience^
and' information of many, arising from lights mutually
and successively communicated and improved.

To those, who enjoy the advantages of such a law
as has been described, I may weU, address myself in the
words of Cicero, ^> Believe me, a more ineatimaUe

« 1. Ins. 97. b.

f Mihi credite: major faxreditas venit, unicuique vestrum, a
jure et a legibus, quam ab lis, a quibus bona relicta sunt Kain, ut
perveniat ad me fimdus, testamento alkujiu £gn potiest : ut retir
neam quod meum fieu:tum sit^ sbe jare civili.non potest Quaproptor
non minus diligenter ea, qus a majoribus accepistis, publica patri-
monia juris, quam privatse rei vestrs, retinere debetis ; non solum
quod hsc jure civili septa sunt; sed etiam quod patrimoniumi
unius incommodo demittitur; jus amitti non potest sine magna
incommodo civitatis. Cic pro Ccec. c. 26*

LECTURES ON LAW. 47

inheritance descends to you from the law, than from
those who have left, or may leave you fortunes. A farm
may be transmitted to me by the will of any one : but
kt is by the law alone that I can peacefully hold what is
already my own* You ought, therefore, to retain the
publick patrimotiy of the law, which you have received
from your ancestors, with no less assiduity than you
retain your private estates ; not only because these are
fenced and protected by the law ; but for this further
reason, because the loss of a private fortune affects
only an individual, whereas the loss of the law would
be deeply detrimental to the whole commonwealth.''

Does this inestimable inheritance fol&w the, person of
the citizen; or is it fixed to the spot, on which the
citizen first happened to draw the breath df \i(^ ? On this
great question, it will be proper to consider what the
}aw of England, and, also, what the law of reason
says. Perhaps both will speak substantially the same
language.

By the common law, every man may go out of the
realm to carry on trade, or on any other occasion, which
be thinks a proper one, without the leave of the king;
and for so doing no man shall be punished. ^

We are told, however, that if the king, by a writ of
ne exeat regnunit under his great or privy seal, thinks
proper to. prohibit any one from going abroad ; or sends
a writ to any man, when abroad, commanding his return;
and, in either case, the subject disobeys; it is a high
contempt of the king's prerogative, for which the oSen*

■ *, ' ' ' ■ . ^

9 F.N,B.a5. Jenk.88.

48 LECTURES ON LAW.

der's lands shall be seized, till he return ; and then he
is liable to fine and imprisonment* ^

The discussion of this prerogative, and the cases^
in which it may be justly and usefully exerted, it is
unnecessary, for my present purpose, to undertake, or
enumerate f because if this prerogative was admitted in
the fullest extent, in which it has ever been claimed, it
would weaken neither the principles nor the facts, 01$
which my observations shall be grounded.

A citizen may leave the kingdom : . atir ali«n may enter
it. Does the former lose ? — does the latter acquire! the
Fights of citizenfhip i No. Neither dimate, nor jspil, nor
time entitle one to those rights : neither climat^ nor soiI>
nor time can deprive him of them. Citizens^ who esnl-
grate, carry with them, in their emigraJpion, their best
and noblest birthright. ^

It is remarkable, however, that, in the charters of
several of the American colonies, there is this declara-
tion, *^ that the emigrants Bind their posterity shall still
be considered as English subjects." Whether the solici*
tude of the colmiists obtained, or the distrust of the reigiw
ing sovereigns in^posed this clause, it would be super/-
fluous to inquire ; for the clause itself was equally
unnecessary and inefficient. It was imnecessary, because,
by the common law, they carried with them the rights
of Englishmen ; it was inefficient ; because, if such h^
not been the opera^iion of the common law, the KiigHit of

h 1. BL Com. 366. ChaL26.2r.

» The law is the birthright of every subject; so wherever sub-
Jecjts go, they carry thdr taws with tl«m. S.P.Wms.T'S.J

LECTURES ON LAW. 49

citizenship could not have resulted from any declaration
from the crown. A king of England can neither'confer
nor take away the rights of his subjects. Accordingly,
the charter of Pennsylvania, perhaps the most accurate
of all the charters, contains no such declaration. When
the charter of Massachusetts, soon after the revolution
of 1688, was renewed by king William, he was advised
by his law, council, that such a declaration would be
nugatory..^

As citizens, who emigrate, carry with them their
laws, their best birthright; so, as might be expected,
they transmit this best birthright to their posterity. . By
the statute 25- Edw. Ill- says my lord Bacon, which, if you
believe Hussey, is but a declaration of the common law,
all children, bom in any part of the world, if they be of
English parents, continuing, at that time, as liege sub-
jects to the king, and having done no act to forfeit the
benefit of their allegiance, are, ipso facto, naturalized- If
divers families of English men and women plant them-
selves at Lisbon, and have issue, and their descendants
intermarry among themselves, without any intermixture
of foreign blood ; such descendants are naturalized to
all generations ; for every generation is still of liege
parents, and therefore naturalized ; so as you may have
whole tribes and lineages of English in foreign countries.
Andtherefore it is utterly untrue that the law of England
cannot operate, but only within the bounds of the domi-
nions of England. ^

This great man, whose keen and comprehensive genius
wfLW and understood so much, seems to have viewed the

^ ChaL 14. 15. 1 4. Ld. Bac 192-

VOL, II, H

50 L£CTURi:S ON LAW.

principles of colonization and the situation • of colonists,
with his usual penetration and sagacity. It was his sen*
timent, that the American colonies should be guided and
governed by the common law of England. "^

It has been already observed, that there are some great
eras, when important and very perceptible alterationa
take place in the situation of men and things ; and that,
at such eras, the accommodating spirit of the common
law will introduce, into its practice and rules, corres-
ponding and adequate alterations. To the situation of
the American colonists, this observation may be applied
with singular propriety and force. The situation, in
which they found themselves in America, was, in many
important particulars, very different from that, in which
they had been before their departure from England.. The
principles of that law, under whose guidance the emigra-
tion was made, taught them, that the system, in its parti-
cular parts, must undergo changes proportioned to the
changes in their situation. This sentiment was under-
stood clearly and in its full extent. By alterations,
which, after their emigration, might be made in England,*
the obligatory principle of the common law dictated, that
they shoxild in no manner be affected ; because to such
alterations they had now no means of giving their consent. -
Hence the rule, that acts of parliament, made after the.
settlement of a colony, have, in that colony, no binding
operation.

It is highly requisite, that these great trulihs should
be stated, and supported, and illustrated in all their force
and extent.

m 3.Ld.Bac«if8t

lECTURES ON LAW. 51

The emigrants, who in the year 1620 landed near
Cape Cod, at a place, which they afterwards called New
Plymouth, had the honour of planting the first permanent
colony in New England. Before they landed, they entered
into a political association, which, on many accounts, de-
serves to be noticed in the most particular manner. It is
in these worda. " In the name of God. Amen. . We,
whose Barnes are hereunder written, the loyal subjects of
our dread sovereign lord king James, by the grace of God,
of Great Britain, France, and Ireland king, defender of
the faith, Sec having undertaken, for the glory of God and
advancement of the Christian faith, and honour of our
king and country, a voyage, to plant the first colony in
the northern parts of Virginia^ do by these presents,
soleomly and mutually, in the presence of God and of
one another, covenant and combine ourselves together
into a civil body politick, for our better ordering and
preservation, and furtherance of the ends aforesaid ; and
by virtue hereof, do enact, constitute, and frame such just
and equal laws and ordinances, from time to time, as
shall be thought most meet for the general good of the
colony, unto which we promise all due subjection and
obedience. In witness whereof, we have subscribed our
names at Cape Cod, 11th November, 1620.""

In this manner was a civil society formed^ by an ori-
ginal compact, to which every one consented, and, of
consequence, by which every one was bound. During
the infancy of the colony, we are told, the legislature con-
sisted of tlie whole body of the male inhabitants. In the
year 1639 they established a house of representatives,
composed of deputies from the several towns. These

n ChaL102.

F-^

52 LECTURES ON LAW.

representatives, in the true spirit of the principles, which
we have been delineating, determined to make the laws
of England the general rule of their government, " To
these laws," says their ancient historian, Hubbardi " they
were willing to be subject, though in a foreign land;
adding some municipal laws of their own, in such cases,
where the common and statute laws of ^England could
not well reach, and aiFord them help in emergent cases."**.
Under the foregoing compact and the principles of legis-
lation, which have been mentioned, this colony long
enjoyed all the blessings of a government, in which pru*
dence and vigour went hand in hand.^

In Virginia we see the same principles adopted and
ratified by practice. In the month of March 1662, the
assembly of that ancient dominion met : with the most
laudable intentions, it reviewed the whole body of
the laws of the colony. In this review, dieir object was,
^^ to adhere. to the excellent and often refined customs,
of England, as nearly as the capacity of the country
would admit." "*

In Maryland we behold a repetition of the same scene.
' In the month of April of the same year, the legislature
of this colony, with a spirit congenial to that of the
common law, declared, that, in all cases where the
usages of the province were silent, justice should be
administered according to the customs and statutes of
England ; ^^ so far as the court shall judge them not
inconsistent with the condition of the colony.

5> r

o Chal. 87. 88. p JA 89.

•* Id. i4S. ' Id. 360.

LECTURES ON LAW* 53

The foregoing principles were recognised even under
the arbitrary government of James the second. When
he passed a commission— ^the legality of which is not
the present subject, to carry on a temporary administra-
tion in Massachussetts, New Hampshire, Maine, Narra^
ghanset^ the commissioners were created a court of
record for administering affairs civil and criminal, so
that the forms of proceedings and judgments be conso-
nant to the English t)aws, as near as the circumstances of

the colony will admit."

>

It has been already remarked, that as the rules of the
common law are introduced by experience and custom ;
so they may be withdrawn by discontinuance and disuse.
Nuntierous instances of the conduct of the colonies set-
tled in America evince the force and ^tent of this
remark. Many parts of the common law as received in
England, a kingdom populous, ancient, and cultivated,
could receive no useful application in the new settle-
ments, inconsiderable in respect both of numbers and
improvement.

This principle is fully recognised by the learned Author
of the Commentaries on the laws of England. ^^ It hath
been held," says he, " that if an uninhabited country be
discovered and planted by English subjects ; all the
English laws then in being,, which are the birthright of
every subject, are immediately there in force. But this
must be understood with very many and very great
restrictions. Such colonists carry with them only so
much of the English law, as is applicable to their own
situation and the conditibn of an infant colony. The

8 ChaL 417.

54 I.ECTURSS ON LAW,

artificial refinements and distinctions incident to the
property of a great and commercial people, the laws of
police and revenue (such especially as are enforced by-
penalties) the mode of maintenance for the established
clergy, the jurisdiction of spiritual courts, and a multi*
tude of other provisions, arc neither necessary nor
convenient for them ; and, therefore, are not in force." '

It has been often a matter of some difficulty to
determine what parts of the law of England extended to
the colonies, and what parts were so inapplicable to
their situation as not to be entitled to reception. Ou
this, as on many other subjects, those who felt had a
right to judge. The municipal tribunals in the diflPer-
ent colonies decided the question in the controverted
instances, which were brought before them ; and their
decisions and practice were deemed authoritative evi-
dence on the points, to which they related.

ff

The advocates for the legislative power of the British
parliament over the American colonies remind us, that
the colonists were liable to the duties as well as entitled
to the rights of Englishmen ; and that, as Englishmen,
they owed obedience to their ancient legislature ; accord-
ing, as it is said, to a principle of universal equity ; that
he who enjoys the benefit shall submit patiently to aD its
inconveniences. *

It is always proper to guard against verbal equivoca-
tion J the source of the grossest errours both in opinion
and practice. That it is the duty oif some Englishmen
to pay obedience to the legislature of England, is admit*

^ 1. Bl. Com. lOr. * Chal. 15. 28.

LECTURES ON LAW. SS

ted very readily. The principles, on which this obedience
is due, have been amply illustrated in a former part of
our lectures. ^ Acts of parliament have been shown to
be binding, because they are made with the consent or
by the authority of those, whom they bind. Such English-
men, therefore, as have had an opportunity of expressing
this consent, or of exercising this authority, arc certainly
bound to pay obedience to those acts of parliament.
But is this the case with all Englishmen ? Let us know
what is meant by the term. Is it confined to those,
who are represented in parliament? In that cotifined
sense, it is conceded that they owe obedience to that
legislature. Is it extended to all those, who are entitled
to the benefits of the common law of England ? In that
extended sense, no such concession will or ought to be
made : such a concession would destroy the vital princi-
ple of all their rights— »that of being bound by no human
laws, except such as are made with their own consent.
It never is the duty of an Englishman, of one entitled
to the common law as his inheritance-— it never is the
duty of such a one to surrender the animating principle
of all his rights.

He who enjoys the benefit, it is said, shall submit
patiently to all its inconveniences. True : but do Eng-
lishmen who are not and cannot be represented in parlia-
iment, enjoy the benefit i Unquestionably, they do not.
To the inconveniences, then, they are under no obliga-
tion of submitting. This is the true inference. The
opposite inference burthens the colonists with the incon-
veniences separated from the benefit : it does more— at
burthens the colonists with the inconveniences, augment-

▼ Ante.

56 I/ECTUREft ON LAW.

ed in consequence of this very separation. When the
benefit of representation is lost ; the inconveniences will
be increased in a dreadful proportion. This reasonixig
seems to be just in theory. Let us apply to it the touch-
stone of fact.

In the journals of the house of comnsons, we find
some short notes taken of a parliamentary debate, in thp
year i621, concerning tobacco. The result of this de-
bate was a bill, which was afterwards passed into a law,
for preventing the inordinate use of tobacco. Among
other short notes on this subject, is the following 'one,
very instructive and interesting-^^" Mr. Solicitor-*-4oveth
England better than Virginia."^ To every claim of
obedience to the parliament without representation there,
the standing answer and objection ought to be, in refer*
ence to the spirit of Mr. Solicitor's honest, and, indeed,
natural declaration— ^the members' of parliament love
England better than America.

This important subject deserves to be pursued futr-
ther. Citizens, who emigrate, carry with them their
rights and liberties. When to these rights and liberties,
duties and obligations are inseparably annexed, the IslU
ter should be performed wherever the former can be
enjoyed. But, in some instances, the enjoyment of the
former becomes, from the nature and circumstances of
things, altogether impracticable. The question, which
we now consider, presents to us^ one of those instances.
Obedience to acts of parliament is, as we have seen at
large, founded on the principle of consent. Tfaat4;on-
sent isexpressed eidier personally or throu^tte m4«r

^ Chal. 72.

LBCTURES OlSf LAW. 57

diVLVti of representation. That it cannot be given per-
sonally 18 evident from the case supposed : the citizen
has emigrated to another country. - The same reason
shows, that it cannot be given through the medium of
representation. The right of representing is conferred
by the act of electing : elections for members of parlia*
Hient are held within the kingdom : at those elections,
the citizen, who has emigrated into, another country,
cannot vote. The result, then, is unavoidably this : if,
by the emigration of the citizen, the enjoyment of his
right of representatioil is necessarily lost ; the duty of
obedience, the consequence of enjoying that right, can-
not possibly arise. When the cause is removed, the ef-
fect must cease to operate.

In this plain and simple manner, from the principles,
which we have traced and established ^s the foundation
of the obligatory force of law, we prove incontestably,
that the colonists, after their emigration, were under no
obligations of obedience to the acts of the English or
British parliament. Principles, properly and surely laid,
ftre eminently useful both for detecting and confuting
errour, and for elucidating and confirming truth.

The history as well as the principles of this momen-^
tous question ought to be fully developed and known.
Il is an in^ructive, and it is- an interesting one. It has
engaged the attemion of the civilized world. It has
employed the treasures and the force of the most >e«
spectable nations. America, both North and South
ttbnost ail the £uit>pean powers, either as parties or as
neutrab, acted or waited in arms for the important and
final decisicm. On one side, it W9s worth all that it has
cost. The auspicious event we have seen and ezperien-

VOL. II. 1 ^

58 LECTU!IES ON LAW.

«

ccd. Its rise, its progress, and its merits, every citizeo,
certainly every lawyer and statesbian, in the United
States, should accurately ^now.

The dependence of the colonies in America on the
parliament of England seems to have been a doctrine
altogether unknown and even unsuspected , by the colo-
nist9 who emigrated, and by the princes with whose
consent their emigrations were made. It seems not, for
a long time, to have been a doctrine known to the par-
liament itself.

Those, who launched into the unknown deep, in
search of new countries and habitations, stiH considered
themselves, it is true, as subjects of the English mo-
harchs, and behaved suitably and unexceptioimbly in
that character ; but it no where appears, that they still
considered themselves as represented in an English par-
liameht, or that they thought the authority of the En*
glish parliament extended over them. They took pos-
session of the country in the king's name : they treated,
or made war with the Indians by his authority : they es-
tablished governments under his prerogative, as it was
then understood, or,' as it was also then understood, by
virtue of his charters. No application, for those pur-
poses, was made to the parliament : no ratification of the
charters or letters patent was solicited from that assem-
bly, as is usual in England, with regard to grants and
franchises of much less importance.

My Lord Bacon's sentiments on this subject ought t6
have great weight' with us. . His immense genius, his
universal learning, his deep insight into the laws and
constitution of England, are well known and much adr

LECTURES ON LAW. 59

mired. Besides ; he lived at that very time when the
^settlement.and the improvement of the American plan-
tations began to be seriously pursued, and successfully
to be carried into execution. Plans for the government
and regulation of the colonies were then forming ; and
it is from the first general idea of those plans that we
can best unfold, with precision and accuracy, all the
more minute and intricate parts of which they after-
wards consisted. ^^The settlement of colonies," says
he, " must proceed from the option of those who will
settle them, else it sounds like an exile : they must be
raised by the leave and not by the command of the king.
At their setting out, they must have their commission
or letters patent from the king, that so they may ac«
knowledge their dependency upon the crown of England,
and under his protection." ^^ They must still be subr
jects of the realm." ^^ In order to regulate all the in-
conveniences, which ' will insensibly grow upon them,"
he proposes, that the king should erect a subordinate
council in England, whose care and charge shall be, to
advise and put in execution all things, which shall be
fppnd fit for the good of these new plantations ; who,
upon all occasions, shall give an account of their pro-
ceedings to the king or to the council board, and from
them receive such directions as may best agree with the
government of that place. ^ It is evident from these
quotations, that my Lord Bacon had no conception, that
the parliament would or ought to interpose, either in the
settlement or in the government of the colonies.

We have seen the original association of the society,
who made the first settlement in New England. In that

» 1. Ld. Bac. 725. 726.

60 LECTURES ON LAW« ^

instrument, they acknowledge tliemselves(,tbe loyal sfib-
jects of the kingj and promise all due subjection said
obedience to the colony : but we hear nothing concerning,
the parliament. Silence is sometimes, expressive : k
seems to be strongly so in this instance.

About sixty years afterwards, and during the reign of{
Charles the second, the general court of that colony exhi-
bit the following natural account of the principles, on
which the first settlement was made. ^^ The fii*st corner^
here," say they, "having first obtained leave of Wng
James, of happy memory, did adventure, at their own
proper costs and charges, through many foreseen and
diterwards felt sufferings, to break the ice^ and settle^the
first English plantation in this then uncultivated remote
part of your dominions. We have had now near abaa|
sixty years lively experience of the good consistency of
the order of these churches with civil goyeniment smd
order, together with loyalty to kingly government and
authority, and the tranquillity of this colony. May it
therefore please your most excellent majesty to favour us
with your gracious letters patent for our incorporation
into a body politick, with singular the privileges as your
majesty has been accustomed to grant to other cplonies,
so to your majesty's colony of Connecticut." ^ Still no
inention is made of parliament : still no application is
made to that body. These omissions could not have been
owing to accident : they must have been intentional. Be<p
fore this time, the pretensions of parliament, during the
existence of the commonwealth, had been both known
and felt ; and, at this time, must have been remembered.

r Chal. 106. lor.

LECTURES ON LAW.^ 61

By tlie charter of Rhode Island, granted in the four^
teenth year of Charles the second, the king grants and
confirms all that part of his dominions in New England
in America, containing the Narraghanset Bay, and coun*
tries aQ«l parts adjacent, &c. Here, also, no notice if
taken of the parliament.

The following transactions relating to Virginia, exhi«
bit, in a very striking point of view, the sentiments both
of the king and of the colonists, concerning the interfe*
rence of parliament with the business of colonial adnunis*
tration. Sir William Berkely, who, in the year 1639,
was appointed govemour of that colony, was, among other
things, directed to summon the burgesses of all the plan-
tations, who, with the goveroour and council, should con*
stitute the grand assembly, with power to ^ake acts for
the government of the colony, as near as may be to the
laws of England.

A discontented party in Virginia contrived, in what
particular manner is not mentioned, to have a petitioa
presented, in the name of the assembly to the house of
commons, praying a restoration of the ancient patents and
corporation government. .The govemour, the council
and the burgesses no sooner heard of a transaction so
contrary to truth and their wishes, than they transmitted
an explicit disavowal of it to England ; and, at the sam«
time, sent an address to the king, acknowledging his
bounty and favour towards them, and earnestly desiring
to continue under his immediate protection. In that
address, they desired that the king would, under his royal
signet, confirm their declaration and protestation against
the petition presented, in their names, to the house of
commons, and transmit that confirmation to Virginia.
LECTURES ON LAW.

The king expresses strong satisfaction with this address ;
declares that their so earnest desire to continue under hii
immediate protection is very acceptable to him ; and in-
forms them, that he had not before the least intention to
consent to the introduction of any company over the
colony J but that he was much confirmed in his former
resolutions by the address ; since he would think it very
iniproper to change a form of government, under which
his subjects there received so much content and satisfac-
tion. He transmits to them, under his royal signet, his
Approbation of their petition and protestation. *

In the colony of Massachussetts, the famous navigation
act, made by the English parliament, met with a strong
and steady opposition. It was not enforced by the
govemour annually chosen by the people, whose interest
it was that it should not be observed. Of consequence, no
custom house was established. The colony carried on the
greater part of the trade of the plantations to every quarter
of the globe : and vessels from* every European coun-
try, from Frahce, from Spain, from Italy, from Hol-
land, were crowded together in the harbour of Boston.
This prosperous situation excited the envy and the
jealousy of the mercantile and manufacturing interests
in England. These principles produced, from the mer-'
chants and manufacturers, a representation to Charles
the second; in which they prayed, that the colonies
might receive no supplies but from England; and that the
subjects of New England might be compelled to trade
according to law. When information of these measures
was transmitted to Massachussetts by her agents in En-
gland ; the general court avowed the conduct of the

> Chal. 121. 122. 133. 134.

X£CTtrit£B ON JLAW. 63

colony; justified that conduct in point of legality; and
stated the sacrifice which it was willing to make of its
interests, though not of its rights. It acknowledged
that no regard had been paid to the laws of navigation*
It urged that those laws were an invasion of the rights
and privileges of the subjects of his majesty in that colony,
they not being represented in the parliament ; because^
according to the usual sayings of the learned in the law,
the laws of England were bounded within the four seas,
and did not reach Amerioa; but that, as his majesty
had signified his pleasure, that those laws should be observ-
ed, it had made provision, by an ordinance of the colony,
which obliged masters of vessels to yield faithful obe-
dience, and commanded officers to see them stricdy
observed*

A letter written in the year 1698 from govemour
Nicholson of Maryland to the board of trade shows that
the sentiments of the colony of Massachussetts, with
regard to the authority of acts of parliament, had, when
the letter was written, become general in the colonies.
*^ I have observed that a great many people in all these
provinces and colonies, especially in those under propri-
etaries, and the two others under Connecticut and
Rhode Island, think that no law of England ought to be
in force and binding to them without their own consent :
for they foolishly say they have no representatives sent
from themselves to the parliament of England : and they
look upon all laws made in England, that put any restraint
upon them, to be great hardships,'^

» Cbal. 40a 407. 408* ^ ChaL 443. 443.

CHAPTER XIII.

OF THE MATURE AND PHILOSOPHY OF EVIDEK.d^

11« VIDENCE is a subject of vast and extensive impor-
tance in the study and practice of the law : it is of vast and
extensive importance, likewise, in the business and gene-
ral management of human aflfairs.

*' Experience,'' says Sir William Blackstone, " will
abundantly show, that above a hundred of our law suits
arise from disputed facts" — and facts are the objects of
evidence — ^^ for one where the law is doubted of. About
twenty days in the year are sufficient, in Westminster
Hall, to settle, upon solemn argument, every demurrer
or other special point of law, that arises throughout the
nation. But two months are annually spent in deciding
the truth of facts, before six distinct tribunals, in the
several circuits of England, exclusive of Middlesex and
London, which afibrd a supply of causes much more than
equivalent to any two of the largest circuits*"*

• 3. Bl. Com. 330.

vol.. lU K

66 LECTURES OH LAW. '

But evidence is not confined^ in its operation and im*
portance, to the courts of justice* Its influence on the
human mind, human manners, and human business is
great and universal. In perception^ in consciousness, in
remembrance, belief always forms one ingredient* Bvit
belief is governed by evidence. In every action which
is performed with an intention to accomplish a particular
purpose, there must be a belief that the action is fit^d for
the accomplishment of the purpose intended. So large a
share has belief in our reasonings, in our resolutions^ and
in our conduct, that it may well be considered as the
main spring, which produces and regulates the move-^
ments of human life;*

In a subject of so great use and extent, it is highly
necessary that our first principles be accurate and weK
founded. It is, however, matter of just and deep regret,
that very, little has been said, and that still less has been
satisfactorily said, concerning the sound and genuine
sources and principles of evidence. *' An inquiry," says
Eden, in his Principles of penal law, ^ into the general
rules and maxims of evidence, is a field still open to
investigation. For the considerations of some very in-
genious writers on this subject have been too much influ-
enced by their acquiescence in personal authority, and
we are furnished rather with sensible and useful histories
of what the law of evidence actually is, tlum with any free
and speculative disquisition of what it ought to be." ^
The truth is, I may add, that the philospphy, as well as
•the law of evidence b a field, which demands and which
is susceptible of much cultivation and improvement.

b Eden 164. 165,

LJBCTURES ON X.AW. 67

^^ Evidence^ m legal understapding,'' says my Lord
Coke, ^^ doth aot only contain matters of record, as letters
patent, fines, recoveries, enrollments, and the like ; and
writings under seal, as charters and deeds ; and other
writings without seal, as court rolls, accounts, which are
called evidences, instrumental but, in a larger sense, it
conUuneth also UtMtimonia^ the testimotiy pf witnessiss, and
either proofs to be produced and given to a jury, for the
finding of any issue joined between the parties. And it
is called evidence, because thereby the point in issue is
to be made evident to the jury. Probationes debent esse
evidentes (id est) perspicuse et faciles intelligi.'* ^

The learned Author of the Commentaries on the
Laws of England describes evidence as signifying that,
which demonstrates, makes clear, or ascertains the truth
of the very fact or point in issue, either on the one side or
on the other.

When we are informed that it is called evidence, be-
cause thereby the point in issue is to be made evident to
the jury ; we are informed of little, if any thing, more
than an identical proposition ; and, consequently, are x^ot
enabled by it to make any considerable progress in the
atlainmeait of science*

To say that evidence demonstrates, makes clear, and
ascertains the truth of a fact, is rather to describe its
effects than its nature. Its effects, too, are described in
a numner, neither very accurate nor precise ; a3 I shall
afterwards have occasion to show more particularly.

^ 1 108.383. ^ ^ 3. BL Com. 367.

6S LECTURES OK LAW.

But the truth is, that evidence is much more easily
felt than described. We experience, though it is diffi*
cult to explain, its operations and influence. A man
may have a good eye, and may make a good use of it,
though he cannot unfold the theory of vision.

•

These reflections naturally lead us to oAe illustrious
)50urce of the propriety of a jury to decide on matters
of evidence. ^^ It is much easier," says the Marquis of
Beccaria, ** to feel the moral certaintj^'of proofs, than
to define it exactly. For this reason I think it an ex.
cellent IslWj which establishes assistants to the principal
Judge, and those chosen by lot : For that ignorance
which judges by its feelings is little subject to errour.

we

Perhaps there is no more unexceptionable mode of ex«-
pressing what we feel to be evidence, than to say-^it is
that which produces belief.

Belief is a simple operation of the mind. It is an
operation, too, of its own peculiar kind. It cannot^
therefore, be defined or described. The^ appeal for its
nature and existence, must be made to the experience,
which every one has of what passes within himself. This
experience will, probably, inform him, that beKef arises
from many different sources, and admits of all possible
degrees, from absolute certainty down todotibt an'd sus-
picion.

The love of system, and of that unnatural kind of
uniformity to which systen. is so much attached, has done
immense mischief in the theory of cvidenc^. It has been

A

« Bee c. 1% p, 39.

LECTURES ON LAW. , 69

long the aim and labour of philosophers to discover some
common nature, to which all the different species of
evidence might be reduced. This was the great object
of the schools in their learned lucubrations concerning
the criterion of truth. This criterion they endeavoured
to find from a minute and artificial analysis of the se-
veral kinds of evidence ; by means of which they ex-
pected to ascertain and' estaUish some common quality,
which might be applied, with equal propriety, to all.
I>es Cartes placed this criterion of truth in clear and
distinct perception, f ftnd laid it down as a maxim, that
whatever we clearly and distinctly perceive to be true,
is true. The meaning, the truth, and the utility of
this maxim seem to be all equally problematical.

This criterion of truth was placed by Mr. Locke in a
perception of the agreement or disagreement of our
ideas. This, indeed, is the grand principle of his .phi-
losophy, and he seems to consider it as a very important
discovery. ** Knowledge," says he, " seems to me to
be nothing but the perception of the connexion and agree*
ment, or disagreement and repugnancy of any of our
ideas. In this alone it consists^ For since the mind,
in all. its thoughts and reasonings, hath no other imme-
diate object but its own ideas, which it alone does or
can contemplate ; it is evident, that our, knowledge is
only conversant about them."* " We can have no know-
ledge farther than we have ideas. We can have no
knowledge farther than we have perception of that agree-
ment or disagreement."** ^

^ We give the same of evidence to a clear and distinct view cf
things and of their relations. 1. BurL 8.

8 Locke on Und. b. 4. c. 1. ^ Id. b. 4. c. 3.

•

*

TO

lectuAes ok law.

In order to perceive whether two ideas agree or
agree, they mtist be compared together : Accordkig to
this hypothesis, therefore, all knowledge must arise iTom
the comparison of ideas.

Let us try this hypothesis by applying it minutely and
carefully to a principle of knowledge allowed by all
philosophers— and the only one allowed by all pMloso*
phers — ^to be sound and unexceptionaUe : I mean the
principle of consciousness : — I mean, fulher, the most
clear and simple appeal, which can possibly be made to
that clear and simple principle, / thini. This has always
been admitted to form a principle' and a part of know-
ledge. According to the hypodiesis of. Mr. Locke, this
knowledge must be nothing but the perception of the
agreement-^for disagreement caimot enter into the ques*
tion here—between ideas. . What are the ideas to be
compared, in order that the agreement may be disco*
vered i /and thought f Let us grant every indulgence^
and suppose, for a moment, that existence and though
are nothing more than ideas; and then let us see how
the comparison of ideas, and how their agreement in
consequence of their comparison, will stand.

How is the knowledge of this truth— ^' I think"— -drawn
frmn the perception of any agreement between the idea
at me and the idea of thought ? When I think, I am
conscious of thinking; a,nd this consciousness is the
clearest and most intimate knowledge. But does this
consciousness arise from the perception of agreement
between the idea of me and the idt^Lot th^ghtf No»
From Mr. Locke's own system, no such knowledge can
arise from the perception of any such agreement : be-
cause the agreement does not, at all times, take place*

lecture's on law* 71

^^ The mind" says he, ^^ can sensibly put on, at several
times, several degrees of thinking, and be sometimes,
even in a waking man, so remiss,' as to have thoughts
dim and obscure to that degree, that they are very little
removed from none at all ; and, at last, in the dark retire-
moits of sound sleep, loses the sight, perfectly, of all ideas
whatsoever* ^ The knowledge, then, of this truth, that
/ thinks does not arise from the perception of any agree-
ment between the idea me and the idea of thought; since,
according to Mr. Locke's own account of the matter,
ihsLt agreement does not always subsist*

Let us try this hypothesise—that knowledge is the per-
ception of the agreement or disagreement of our ideas—
by another instance ; and let us attend to the result* , I
perceive a small book in my hand. My faculty of seeing
gives me not merely a simple apprehension of the book ;
it gives me, likewise, a concomitant belief or knowledge of
its existence ; of its shape, size, and distance. By the
perception of the agreement of what ideas, is this know-
ledge or belief acquired? This belief is inseparably
connected with the perception of the book ; and does
not arise from' any perception of agreement between the
idea of the book, and the idea of myself.

I remember to have dined a few days ago with a
psurticular company of friends. This remembrance is
accompanied with clear and distinct belief or knowledge.
How does this belief or knowledge arise i Is it from the
perception of agreement between ideas ? Between what
ideas i Between the idea of mcy and die idea of my

J|[<

friends f This agreement, I presunie^ ^''V^ hw^ been

Locke on Und.hi 3.C.19.8.4

72 LECTURES ON LAW.

the same, whether we had dined together or not. Is it
from the agreement between the idea of me and the idea
of dining ? But how, from this agreement, will the
knowledge of dining with my friends arise ? On thia
state of the supposition, I might have dined with stran->
gers or with enemies.

Let us examine the future, as we have examined the
past. If a certain degree of cold freezes water noinr,
and has been known to freeze it in all times past ; we
believe, nay, we rest assured, that the same degree of
cold will continue to freeze the water while the cold
continues ; and returning, will be attended with the same
eiFect, in all times future. But whence does this belief
or assurance arise ? Does it arise from the comparison of
ideas — ^from the perception of their agreement ? When
I compare the idea of cold with that of water hardened
into a transparent solid body^ I can perceive no con-
nexion between them : no man can show the one to be
the necessary effect of the other: no one can ^ve a shadow
of reason why nature has conjoined them. But fronti
experience we learn that they have been conjoined in
times past ; and this experience of the past is attended
with a belief and assurance, that those connexions, in
nature, which we have observed in times past, will con-
tinue and operate in times to come. ^

We now see, that our knowledge, which proceeds
from consciousness, from the senses, from memory, and
from anticipation of the future occasioned by experience
of the past, ^ses not from any percepti<m of the agree-

ment or disajppement.of our ideas. These stre important

1" Reid'slnq.437.438.

LECTURES ON LAW. 73

%

parts of our knowledge : the evidence, upon which these
parts of our knowledge is founded, is an important part
of the system of evidence. All, however, rests on prin*
ciples, very different from that which is assigned by Mr.
Locke, as the sole principle of knowledge. We may
go farther still, and say, if knowledge consists solely in
the perception of the agreement or disagreement of ideas,
there can be no knowledge of any proposition, which
does not express some agreement or disagreement of
ideas ; consequently, there can be no knc^vledge of any
proposition, which expresses either the existence, or
the attributes, or the relations of things ; which are not
ideas. If, therefore, the theory of ideas be true, there
can be no knowledge of any thing else : if we have
knowledge of any thing else, the theory of ideas must be
unfounded. For the knowledge of any thing else than
ideas must^se from something eke than the perception
of the agreement or disagreement of ideas. ^

This principle, assigned by Mr. Locke, that know-
ledge is nothing but a perception of the agreement or
disagreement of pur ideas, is founded upon another—
the existence of ideas or images of things in the mind.
This theory I have already had an opportunity of consi-
dering, and I shall not now repeat what I then delivered
at some length. I then showed, I hope, satisfactorily,
that this theory has no foundation in reason, in conscious-
ness, or in the other operations of our minds ; but that,
on the contrary, it is manifestly contradicted by all these,
and would, in its necessary consequences, lead to the
destruction of all truth, and knowledge, and virtue ;
though those consequences were, by no means, foreseen

^ Reid's Ess. Int. 553.

VOL. II. L

f4 LJKCTURKS ON I«AW«

by MjT* Locke, and many aucceeding pMIosopbers, who
]»ave adopt€4t ^^ ^tiU adopt, hi& theory concerning tho
eziateaco of ideaft or imag<^ of things in the mind*

If tins theoiy has, as we have shown it to have^
BO ibundation«-«4f these ideas have, as we have shown
them to have, bo existence ; then Mr< Locke's geeat
jprinciple, which represents knowledge and belief, aod
consequendy evidence, upon which knowkdge aBd be*
lief are grounded, as consisting in the perception of the
agreement or disagreement of those ideas, must tUmblo
in ruins, like a superstructure, whose bams has been
undermjjuMi and removed*

It is nevertheless true, that, in our law books^ the
general principlea of evidence, ao far as any ]M>tice>i8
taken of generd priafiiplea on thb suliject, are referred,
for their sole support, to the theory of Mr. Loeke«
This will appear obvious to any one who is acquainted
with diat theory, and peruses the first pages of my Lord
Chief Barofi Gilb^it's Treatise ixpon Evidauie. This
unfolds the reason why I have esmployed so much paiaa
to eaqK>se a&d remove the sandy and unsound feuodatioo^
on which the principleft of the law of evidence have bees
placed*

Let us now proceed to erect a fabrick on a different
mid a surer basis^-^the basis of the human mind.

I am, by no means, attached to mmierQus and unne*^
cessary distinctions j but^ on some occasions, it iaprc^r
to recollect the rule^ ^' qui bene distinguit, bene doce)U"
It is possible to blend, as well as to distinguish^ impro-
perly* Nature should- idwaya km consulted. We are

I.fiC:T171l£S ON LAW. T5

f

«ttie> when 'Wt imitate het in her vtrtous, as well as
^rhen we imitate her in her uniform appearances. By
foQowing her as our guide, we can trace evidence to the
foUowmg fourteen distinct sources.

I. It arises frcmi the eictemal senses : and by each of.
Aese, 4fotfnct information is comney^d to ^ mind.

I

II* It arises from consciousness ; or ^tt internal view
of what passes within ourselves.

IlL It arises from ^ttte; or that powei^ of die hmnaii
mind, by which we perceive and enjoy the heauties of
nature or of art.

IV. it arises from the motei sense ; or that fisu^tdty of
the mind,, by which we have the trnginal conceptions of
right and wrong in conduct ; • and the original perceptions,
diftt eettam thii^ are right, and that others are wrong.

V« Evidence arises from natural signs : by these we
'gain our imowledge of the minds, said of the various qua*
l)lie4 and operations of die minds, of other men. Their
thoughts, and purposes^ and dispositions have their natural
signs in the features of the countenance, in the tones of
the vcnce, and in the motions and gestures of the body.

VI. Evidence arises from artificial signs; such as
have no meaning, except that, which is affixed to them
by compaet, or agreement ^ or usage : such is language,
wittcfa has been em{doyed universal^ for the purpose of
eommiMkating diought. '

VIL Evidence aritSes from human testimony inmaiiB
ters of fact.

^6 tSCTURES OK LAW.

VIII. Evidence arises from human authority in m«&«
tcrs of opinion.

IX. Evidence arises from memory, or a reference to
Eiomething whichs is past*

k

X. Evidence arises from experience ; as nrhen, from
facts already known, we make inferences to facts of the
9i2m^ kind, unknown:

XI. Evidence arises fi*om analogy ; as when, from facts
already known, we make inferences to facts of a simikir
l^nd, not known.

XII. Evidence arises from judgment; by which I
here mean that power of the mind, which decides upon
truths that are selfevident.

XIII. Evidence arises from reasoning: byTeasoning^
I here mean that power of the mind, by which, from
one truth, we deduce another, as a condition from the
first. The evid^ce, which arises from reasoning, we
shall, by and by, see divided into two species— nlemoii-
strative and moral.

XIV. Evidence arises fit>m calculations concerning
chances. This is a particular application of demonstrative
to ascertain the precise force of moral reasoning.

Even this enumeration, though very long, is, pexhaps^,
far from being complete. Amcmg ^1 those different
kinds of evidence, it 4s, I believe, impossible to find any
common nature, to which they can be reduced. They
agree, indeed, in this one quality^— which constitutes

LECTUAE8 OK LAW* 77

* '

them evideiice«-^that they are fitted by nature to produce
beUef in the human mind.

It will be proper to make some observations concern-
ing each of the enumerated kinds of evidence. In the
business of life, and, consequently, in the practice of a^
kiwyer or man of business, they all occur more frequently
than those unaccustomed to consider them are apt to
imagine. .

I. The truths conveyed by the evidence of the exter-
nal senses are the first principles, frocm which we judge
and reason with regard to the material world, and from
which all our knowledge of it is deduced.

The evidence furnished even by any of the several
external senses seems to have nothing in common with
tiiatiumished by each of the others, excepting that single
quality before mentioned. The evidence of one sense
may be corroborated, in some instances ; and, in some
instances, it may be corrected, by that of another sense,
when both seases.convey information concerning the same
object; but still the information conveyed by each ia
clearly perceived to be separate and distinct* We may
be assured that a. man is present, by hearing and by see-
ing him ; but the evidence of the eye is nevertheless dif-
ferent £rom the evidence of the ear.

In the sacred history of the resurrection, a beautiful
and empl»tical reference is had to this distinct but cor-
respondiagand reciprocally corroborating evidence of the
senses, by him, by. whom our nature was both made and
assumed. ^^ Behold^^^ says he, to his trembling and doubt-
ing disciples, who supposed they had seen a spirit, ^' Be*

TB LECTURES OK X.AW.

htfld my hands and 1117 feet, that it is I ^^telf ; kanMe
me, and see ; for a spirit has not flesh and boiies as you
see me have : And when he had thus spoken, he showed
them his hands and his feet." ^ To the unbelieving
Thomas, he is stilt more {)articular in Us appeal to the
,jeviden<^e of the senses, and in the manner, in^ which the
appeal should be made. ^^ Reach hither thy finger and
hhold my hands ; and reach hither diy hand, and thrvgt
it into my side ; and be not faithless, but believing." ^

Many philosophers of high sounding fanie, deeming
it inconsistent with their character to believe, when th^
could not furnish an argument for belief, have endeavoutw
ed, with much learned labour, to suggest proofs for the
doctrine— -tthat our senses ought to be trusted. But their
proofs are defective, and shrink &om the touch of rigid
rsamination* Other philosophers, of no 4efl» briUiant
reno#n, have clearly and unansweraUy discov^ered Kid
expose^ the fallacy of those pretended proofs: so £ie
they have done weU: but very unwisely they have a6f
tempted to do more : th^ have aittempted toovertum
our.bdief in the evidence of our senses, beeawae the n*
guments adduced on die other side to prove its tmds
were shown to be defective and fallacious. From ha«
man najtiure an e^ual depaitiure is made on both sidei* It
appeals not to reascm for any argument in siqiport of oiur
belief in the evidence of our senses : but it determintts us
to believe them.

II. Consciousness furmshes us with the mesfk ai»|faen«i
tick and the moat indubitable evidence of eveay thiiis
which 'passes within our ow9 miade. This souxce «£

•» Luke XXIV. 39. 4a •Ma XX. ST.

ItEGTURES ON LAW« 79

cvid^ftce layii open to our view aQ our ptrceptioiw and
xaental powers ; md, coiisequeQtly, forms a necessary
ingredient in all evidence arising from every other source.
Xhere csax be no evidence of the objects of the senses^
without perception of them by the mind : there can be
no evidence of the perception of them by the mind, with"
out consciousness of that perception. When we see, and
feely alid think, coosciouuiess gives us the most certain
informatics that we thus see, and feel, and think. This,
as has been observed on a former occasion, is a kind of
evidence, the force and authenticity of which has never
been called in question by those, who have been most
tBclmed to dispute every thing else^ except the evidence
of reasoning*

HI. I mentioned taste, or that power of the tnind by
mdach we perceive and enr^ the beauties of nature and
art,. a» one of the sources from which evidence arises*
This facul^, in its feeling and operations^ has something
aMdogoita t^ the impressions, and operations of our ex«
termd senses ; from one of which, it has, in onr own
and ia several other Isaiguages^ derived its metaphorical

With the stiietest propriety, taste may be catted aO/
ofigtnsd^ sense. It is a power, which fmroisfaes us with
masiy sisdple percepticma, which, to those who are desd«.
tute of it, cannot be conveyed through any other chaoneL
of information. Concerning objects of taste, it is vain
to reason or diacouise with llK>se who possess not the
first pKtneipIes oi^taste« Again ; taste is a power, wbidb^
so soon as its proper object is exhibited to it, receives ktt
perception from that object, immediately and intuttiveljr;^
it ia>Bat tarCi— Hiqaence of a chmn of argumeat, or a
LECTURES ON LAW*

deductive process of our i^easoning faculties, that ire
discover ahd relish the beauti'es of a poem or a prospect*
Both the foregoing characters belong evidently to con-
sciousness and to the external senses. All the three are,
therefore, considered, with equal propriety, as distinct
and original sources of information and evidence.
t

That it is fruitless to dispute concerning loatters of
taste has been so often said, that it has now acquired
the authority and notoriety of a proverb ; and its sug-
gestions are consequently supposed, by some, to be dic-
tated only by whim and caprice. Nothing, • however,
can be farther from the truth. The first and generid
principles of taste are not less uniform, nor less perma-
nent, ^than are the first and general principles of science
and morality. The writings of Cicero present him to
us in two very different characters — as a philosopher^
and as a man of taste. His philosophical performances
are read, and ought to be read, with very consider^le
grains of allowance ; the beauties of his oratory have
been the subjects of universal and uninterrupted admira*
tion. The fame of Homer has obtained an undisputed
establishment of near three thousand years* Has a re<^
putation equally uniform attended the philosophical,
doctriiies of Aristotle or Plato? The writings of Moses
have been admired for their subUfpnity by those, who
n^ver received them as the vehicles of sacred and eter-
nal truth. .

The first and most general principles of taste are uni*
versal as well as permanent ; it is a faulty, in some de»
gree, common to all. With youth, wHh .ig&<H'aiice^
with savageness, its rudiments arc found to dwell. It
seems not less essential to man to have some discernment

LECTURES ON LAW. 61

of the beauties both of art and nature, than it is to pos-
sesSi in some measure, the faculties of speech and rea-
fian. ^* Let no one," says Cicero, in his excellent book
de Oratore, " be surprised that the most uncultivated
mind can mark and discern these things ; since, in every
thing, the energy of nature is great and incredible.
Without education or information, every one, by a cer-
tain tacit sense, is enabled to judge and decide concern-
ing what is right or wrong in the arts. If this observa-
tion is true with regard to pictures, statues, and other
performances, in the knowledge of which they have
less assistance from nature ; it becomes much more evi-
dent and striking with regard to the judgments, which
they form concerning words, harmony, and pronuncia-
tion : for concerning these there is a common sense im-
planted in an,' of which Nature intended that no one
should be entirely devoid."**

IV. As a fourth source of evidence, I mentioned the
moral sense, or that faculty of the mind, by which we
have the original conceptions that there is a right and a
wrong in conduct ; and that some particular actions are
right, and others wrong. Without this last power of
applying our conceptions to particular actions, and of
determining concerning their moral qualities, our gene-
ral and abstract notions of moral good and evil would
be of no service to us in directing the conduct and affairs
of human life.

The moral sense is a distinct and original power c^
the humsm mind. By this power, and by this power
8<^ly^ we receive information and evidence of the first

• Ci&deOratLS. c.5Qt

VOL. II« M

82 LECTURES ON LAW.

principles of right and wrong, of merit and demerit, ^..j,*^
He, who would know the colour of any particular ^^^fiftty
must consult his eye f in vain will he consult evelry Sther
faculty upon the point. In the same manner^ he^ who
would leaxn the moral qualities of any particular action,
must xonsult his moral sense : no other faculty of the
mind can give him the necessary information.

The evidence given by our moral sense, like that
given by our external senses, is the evidence of nature ;
and, in both cases, we have the same grounds for rely-
ing on that evidence* The truths given in evidence by
the external senses are die first principles from which we
reason concerning matter, and from which all our know*
ledge of the material world is drawn. In the same
manner, the truths given in evidence by our moral facul-
ty are the first principles, from which we reason ccmcem«
ing moral subjects, and from which all our knowledge
of morality is deduced* The powers, which Nature
has kindly bestowed upon U99 are the only channels,
through which the evidence of truth and knowledge can
flow in upon our minds.

Virtuous demeanour is the duty, and should be the
aim, of every man : the knowledge and evidence of mo-
ral truth is^ therefore, placed within the reach of alL 1

Of right and wrong there are many different degrees ;
and there are also many different kinds. By the moral
faculty we distinguish those kinds and degrees. By tlie
same faculty we compare the different kinds t€>getber|
and discover numerous moral relations between them.

Our knowledge of moral philosophy, of natural ju-
risprudence, of the law of nations, must ultimately de-*

i

LECTURES ON LAW. , 83

pend, for its first principles, on the evidence and infor«
maiion of the moral sense. This power furnishes to us
the first principles of our most important knowledge.
In dignity, it is far superiour to every other power of
the human mind.

V. The fifth kind of evidence, of which I took notice,
is that, which arises from natural signs. By these, we
gain information and knowledge of the minds, and of
the thoughts, and qualities, and affections of the minds
of men. This kind of evidence is of very great and
exte^nsive importance.

We have no immediate perception of what passes in
the minds of one another. Nature has not thought it
proper to gratify the wish of the philosopher, by placing
a window in every bosom, that all interiour transactions
may become visible to every spectator. But, although
the thoughts, and dispositions, and talents of men are
not perceivable by direct and immediate inspection ;
there are certain external signs, by which those thoughts,
and dispositions, and talents are naturally and certainly
disclosed and communicated.

V
The signs, which naturally denote our thoughts, are
the different motions of the hand,^ the different modula.
tions or tones of the voice, the different gestures and
attitudes of the body, and the di£ferent looks and features
of the countenance, especially what is termed, with sin*
gular force and propriety, the expression of the eye.
By means of these natural signs, two persons, who

P To this the evidence arising from the similitude of hands may
berefinred.

84, LECTURES ON tMWk

never saw one another before, and who pomem no kiKnr*
ledge of one common artificial langimge, cim, in some
tolerable degree, communicate their thoughts and e^^en
their present dispositions to one another: they can zA
and give information : they can affirm and deny : they
can mutually supplicate and engage fidelity and protec-
tion. Of all these we have very picturesque and interest-
ing representations, in the first intervifws between
Robinson Crusoe and his man Friday; they are inte^.
resting, because we immediately perceive them to be
natural. Two dumb per^o'ns, in their intercourse toge^
ther, carry the use of these natural signs to a wonderful
degree of variety and minuteness.

We acquire information, not only c^the thoughts and
present dispositions and aifections, but also of the qimli*
ties, moral and intellectual, of the minds of others, by
the means of natural signs. The eloquence or skill of
another man cannot, themselves, become the objects of
any of our senses, either external or internal. His skill
is suggested to us by the signs of it, which appear in his
conduct : his eloquence, by those which appear in his
speech. , In the same manner, and by the s^me meanst
we receive evidence concerning his benevolence, his
fortitude, and all bis other talents and virtues*

This evidence, however^ of the thoughts, and dispo
sitions, and passions, and talents, and characters of othet
men, conveyed to us by natural signs, is neither less
satisfactory, nor less decisive upon our conduct in the
business and ailairs of life, than the evidence of external
objects, which we receive by the means of our senses.
It is no less a part, nor is it a less important p^rt^ of
our constitution, that we are enabled and determined to

LECTURES ON LAW. 85

judge of the powers and the characters of men, from the
sigtts of them, which appear in their discourse and con-
duct, than. it is that we are enabled and determined to
judge, by our external senses, concerning the various
corporeal objects, which we hfive occasion to view and
consider.

The variety, the certainty, and the extent of that
evidence, which arises from natural signs, maybe con-
ceived from what we discover in the pantomime enter-
tainments on the theatre ; in some of which, the whole
series of a dramatick tale, and all the passions and emo-
tions to which it gives birth, are represented, with
astonishing address, by natural signs. By natural signs,
likewise, the painters and statuaries infuse into their
pictures and statues the most intelligible, and, sometimes,
the most powerful expression of thought, of aifections,
mxd even of character.

Amiong tintutored nations, the want of letters is sup-
plied, though imperfectly, by the use of visible and
Jiatural signs, which fix the attention, and enliven the
remembrance of private or publick transactions. The
jurisprudence of the first Romans exhibited the pictu-
resque scenes of the pantomime entertainment. The inti-
mate imion of the marriage state was signified by the
solemnities attending the celebration of the nuptials.
The contracting parties were seated on the same sheep
skin ; they tasted of the same salted cake of far or rice.
This last ceremony is well known by the name of con*
farr^atic. A wife, divorced, resigned the keys, by the
delivery of which she had be)en installed into the govetn%
ment of domestick affairs. A slave was manumi^ed by
turning him round, and giving him a gentle stroke on the

86 LZCTURES ON LAW.

cheek. By the casting of a stone, a work was prohibited.
By the breaking of a branch, prescription was interrupted.
The clenched fist was the emblem of a pledge. The right
hand was the token of faith and confidence. A broken
straw figured an indenture of agreement. In every pay*
ment, weights and scales were a necessary formality. In
a civil action, the party touched the ear of his witness ;
the plaintiff seized his reluctant adversary by the neck,
and implored, by solemn solicitation, the assi&tance of his
fellow citizens. The two competitors grasped each other's
hand, as if they stood prepared for combat, before the
tribunal of the pretor. He commanded them to produce
the object of the dispute. They went ; they returned,
with measured steps ; and a turf was cast at his feet, to
represent the field, for which they contended, and the
property of which he was to decide. ^

In more enlightened ages, however, the use and mean*
ing of these natural and primitive signs became gradually
obliterated. But a libel may still be expressed by natural
signs, as well as by words ; and the proof of the intention
may be equally convincing and satisfactory in cases t)f the
first, as in those of the last kind.

VI. But evidence arises frequently from artificial as
-^ well as from natural signs ; from those which are settled

by agreement or custom, as well as from those which arc
derived immediately from our structure and constitution.
Of these artificial signs there are many different species,
contrived and established to answer the demands and
emergencies of human life. The signals used by flttets >

^ Consult Gib. Rom. Emp. c. 44. vol 8. p. 92. and the authorities
cited.

LECTURES ON LAW. ^7

at sea|, form a very intricate and a very intere$]ting part
of naval tacticks.

But language presents to us the most important, as
well as the most extensive, system of artificial signs, which
has been invented for the purpose of giving information
and evidence concerning the thoughts and designs of men.
I mean not that language is altogether an invention of
human art ; for*! am of opinion, that, if the first princi-
ples of language had not been natural to us, human reason
and ingenuity could never have invented and executed
its numerous artificial improvements. But of every lan-
guage, at least of every refined language now in use, the
greatest part consists of signs that are purely artificial.
The evidence of language may, therefore, with sufficient
propriety, be arranged under that kind of evidence, which
arises from artificial signs.

Natural signs, though, as we have seen, susceptible of
very considerable extent and variety, yet, when compared

I

with the almost boundless variety and combinations of
our conceptions and thoughts, have been found, in every
country, and in every period of society, altogether inade-
quate to the communication of them in such a degree, as
to accomplish, with tolerable conveniency, the necessary
ends and purposes of human life. Hence the invention
and improvement of language ; which, as has been already
observed, consists chiefly of artificial signs, contrived, at
first, in all probability, only to supply the deficiencies of
such signs as were natural ; but afterwards, as language
became refined and copious,»substituted almost entirely
in their place.

But even language, however copious and refined, is,
on ezaminatiQtn and trial, found insufficient for conveying

88 LECTURES ON LAW.

precisely and determinately all our conceptions atid dc
signs, consisting of numberless particulars, combined
into numberless forms, and related by numberless con*
nexions. • Henc€ the necessity, the use^ and the rules
of interpretation, which has been introduced into ali
languages and all laws. A most extensive field now opens
before us. But I cannot go into it. I am confined, sTt
present, to the mere outlines of the philosophy of evi-
dence. Let us therefore proceed.

VII. A seventh kind of evidence arises from human
testimony in matters of fact.

Human testimony is a source of evidence altogether
original, suggested by our constitution, and not acqui-
red, though it is sometimes corroborated, and more fire-^
quently corrected, by considerations arising from expe-
rience.

" This is very plain," says my Lord Chief Baron
Gilbert, " that when we cannot see or hear any thing
ourselves, and yet are obliged to make a judgment of it^
we must see and hear from report of others ; which is
one step farther from demonstration, which is founded
upon the view of our own senses : and yet there is that
faith and credit to be given to tlie honesty and integrity
of credible and disinterested witnesses, attesting any
fact under the solemnities and obligation of religion,
and the dangers and penalties of perjury, that the mind
equally acquiesces therein as in knowledge %• demon-
stration ; for it cannot have any more r€;ason to be doubt-
ed than if we ourselves had heard or seen it. And this
is the original of trials, and all manner of evidence." ^

^ Gilbi £v. 4.

LECTURES ON hAW^ ^9

i fihall not, at present, make any reraarks upon the
position— -that demonstration is founded on the view of
our own senses. It will be examined when I come to
consider that kind of evidence which arises from coa-
M^nmg — profaable and demonstrative. But, at present,
it is material to observe, that, in the sentiments, whidi
the very learned Judge, whose character and talents ;{
kold in the highest estimation, seems to entertain con-
cerning the source of our belief in testimony, the re-
straints which are wisely calculated, by human regula-
tions, to cheeJk^ are mistaken for the causes intended to
produce this belief. The true language of the :law, ad-
4)ressed to the native and original sentiments of the
human mind concerning testimony, is not to this purport
—If youiind a witness to be honest and upright, oredi-
•ble and disinterested : if you see him deliver hts testi-
mony under all the solemnities and obligation of reli-
gion, and aH the dangers and penalties of -perjury ; you
flftust then believe him. Belief in testimony springs, not
from the precepts of the law, but froni the propensity
x>f OUT nature. This propensity we indulge in every
moment of our lives, and in every part of our business,
without attending, in the least, to the circumspect pre-
cautions prescribed by the law.

»
Experience has found it necessary and useful, that,

at least in legal proceedings, the indulgence of this na-
tural and original propensity should be regulated and
restrained. For this purpose, the law has said, that,
unless a witness appears, as far as can be known, to be
honest and upright, credible and disinterested ; and un-
less lie delivers his testimony under all the solemnities
•and obligations of religion, and all the dangers and
penalties of perjury; you shall not— -It does not say,

vol. n. ' N

-■».,

90 XECTUMES on lAw;

ytm shall hot believe him. To pz^vont this act or ope*
ration of the mind might be impracticable on hearing
the witness: but it says«— you shall not hear him.
Aocordinglj, tvery. gentleman, in the least conversant
about law proceedings, knows very well,^ that the qualifi-
eaticms and solemnities enumerated by the learned Judge,
are requisite to the competency, not to the credibility,
of the witnes8-*--to the admission, not to the operation,
of his testimony.

The proceedings of the common law are founded oft
lo&g and sound experience ; but long and sound experi-
ence wis not be found to stand in opposition to the origi*
nal and genuine sentiments of the human mind. The
propensity to believe testimony is a natural propensity.
It is unnecessary to encourage it ; sometimes it is imprac-
ticable to restrain it. The law will not order that which
is unnecessary : it will not attempt that which is imprac-
ticable. In no case^ therefore, does it order a witness
to be believed ; for jurors are triers of the credibility
of witnesses, as well as of the truth of facts. The posi-
tive testimony of a thousand witnesses is not conclusive
-as to. the verdict* ^ The jury retain ^n indisputable,
unquestionable right to acquit the person accused, if,
in their private opinions, they disbelieve the accusers. "
In no case, likewise, does the law order a witness not
to be^ believed ; for belief might be the unavoidable
result of his testimony. To prevent that unavoidable,
but sometimes improper result, the law orders, that,
without the observance of certain precautions, which
experience. has evinced to be wise and salutary, the
witness shall not be heat^. This I apprehend to be the
true exposition and meaning of the regulations prescribed

> Eden's Pen. Law. 169. 170.

I
LECTURES OK LAW. dl

by the law, befpre a witness can be admitted to give his
testimony.

It will be pleasing and it will be instructive to trace
•und explain the harmony, which subsists between those
regulations, dius ittustrated, and the genuine sentiments of
tbe mind With regard to testimony. To discover an in*
timate connexion between the doctrines of the law and-
the just theory of human nature, is peculiarly acceptable.
Uy those, who study law as a science founded on the
science of man. ^

' In a jformer part of these lectures," I had occasion to
take notice of the quality of verafcity, and of the corre*
sponding quality of confidence; and to show the operation
and the importance of those qualities in promises, which
relate to what is to come. It is material to illustt-ate the
connexion, the importance, and the operation of the same
corresponding qualities in testimony, which relates to
what is past^

By recaHing to our remembrance what we have expe-
rienced, we find, that those, with whom we have con-
versed, were accustomed to express such and such
particular things by such and such particular words.
Biit, in strictness, experience conveys to us the know-
ledge only of what is past : can we be assured, that, in
future,, those who have it in their power to express

' Farum est jus ncMBSe, says Jostiaiatt in hils institutes (1. 1. 1 3. s.
12.) si persons, qttarum causa constitttlum est, igaorentur. Jt is
to little purpose to know the law, if we are ignorant coQcermng the
persons, for whose sake the law was constituted.

" Ante voLl.p.S98.

9% URCTURES ON LAW.

dtiferont things by the same irords, and the ^ame thing»
by diiFerent words, will, in neither manner, avail them-
selves of that power? We act, and we cannot avoid
acting, as' if we were so assured. On what foundation
do we so act i Whence proceeds this belief of the future
atid voluntary behaviour of those, with whom* we coii«-
verse ? Have they come under atiy engfige^ments to dd<
what we believe they will do i They have not; aad^ i£
they bad, what assurance could engngements convey td-
those, who pos^ssed no previous reliance on the £»sdi o£
promises I

i

There is, in the human mind, an- anticipation, an ori-
ginal conviction, that those, with whom we coavefscy wUl^
when, in future, they eatress the samp sentitnents^ whiclb
they have expressed in time past, convey those seiatisnent^
by the same language which, in- time past, thev have^
employed to convey them. There is, in the hum<tti»
mind, a farther antteipation and conviction^ that diose^
with whom we converse, will, when they express to u*
sentiments in the same language, which they have for-
merly employed Ux express them, mean, by those senti-
ments, to convey to us the truth.

The greatest and most important part oif our know*
ledge, we receive by the information of others. We are,
accordingly, endowed with the two corresponding {»:i]i-
ciples, which I have already mentiotted^ and which are
admirably fitted to accomplish the purpose, for which
they were intended. The first of them, which is » pro- .
pensity to speak the truths and to use hmguffge in sueh
a manner as to convey to others the sentiments, which
we ourselves entertain, is a principle, degenerate as W6
are apt to think humanr nature to b^, more imiformly and

I.1CTU&E8 ON LAW* 93

#

ttiofe untversally predominaQt^than is generally imagined.
To speadc as we think, and to speak as we have been ac-*
caalonied to speak, are familiar and easy to us : they
require no studied or artificial exertion: a natural impulse
is sufficient to produce them. £ven the most consummate
Bar deckores truths much more frequendy than falsehoods.
On some occasions, indeed, there may be inducements to
deceive, which will prove too powerful for the natural
principle of veracity, unassisted by honour or virtue :
but when no such inducements operate, our natural in-
stinct is, to speak the truth. Another instinct, equally
natural^ is to believe what is spoken to be true. This
principle is a proper and a usefuf counterpart to the
ibrmer.

A very different theory has been adopted by some
philosophers. No species of evidence, it is admitted by
tbem, is more common,. more useful, and even more ne*
cessary to human life, than that which is derived from
testimony. But our reliance, it is contended, on any
evidence of this kind is derived from no other principle
than our observation of the veracity of human testimony,
and of the usual conformity of facts to the reports of wit«
nesses. If it were not discovered by experience, that the
memory is tenacious to a certain degree ; that men have
commonly a principle of probity and an inclination to
truth ; and that they have . a sensibility to shame, when
detected in a falsehood^-If /it were not discovered by
experience, that these qualities are inherent inhuman
nature ; we should never repose the least confidence in
kuman testimony. ^

V 2, Hume's Ess. 119. X20.

94 I.£CTU]l£8 ON LAW.

If belief in testimony were the result only of expert*
ence ; those who have never had experience would never
" believe ; and the most experienced' would be the most
credulous of men. The fact, however, in both instances,
is precisely the reverse ; and there are wise reasons, why
it should be so. The propensity which cnildren, before
they acquire experience, discover to believe every things
that is told to them, is strong and extensive. On the
contrarj^, experience teaches those who are aged, to be*
come cautious and distrustful.

'^ Oportet discentem credere" has acquired, and just-
Jy, the force and the currency of a proverb. How many
thin'gs must children learn and believe, before they can
try them by the touchstone of experience ! The infant
mind, conscious, as it should seem, of its want of experi-
rience, relies implicitly on whatever is told it ; and re-
ceives, with assurance, the testioiony of every one, with-
cjut attempting and without being able to examine the
grounds, upon which that testimony rests. As the mind
gradually acquires experience and knowledge, it discovers
reasons for suspecting testimony, in some cases, and for
rejecting it, in others* But unless some reasons appear
for suspicion or disbelief, testimony is, through the whole
of life, considered and received as sufficient evidence to
form a foundation both of opinion and conduct.

The reasons for suspecting or- rejecting testimony
may generally be comprised under the following heads.
1. When the witness testifies to something, which ap«
pears to us to be improbable or incredible. 2. When he
shows himself to be no pompeteht judge of the matter, of
which he gives testimony. 3. When, in former instan-
ces, we have known him to deliver testimony, which has

rf

L£CtUR£S OK LAW. 9$

(

I

been false* 4. Wheti, in the present instance, we dis-
cover some strong inducement or temptation, which maj
prevail on him to deceive.

While experience and reflection, on some occasions^
diminish the force and influence of testimony, they, on
other occasions, give it assistance, and increase ^ts autho-
rity. The reputation of the witness, the manner in which
he delivers his testimony, the nature of the fact concern-
ing which his testimony is given, the peculiar situation in
which he stands with regard to that fact, the occasion on
which he is called to produce his testimony, his entire
-disintereistedness as to the matter in question— each of
these taken singly may much augment the force of his
evidence — all of these taken joindy may render that force
irresistible.

In a number ^f concurrent testimonies, there is a de-
gree of probability superadded to that, which may be
termed the ag^egate of all the probabilities of the se*
parate testimonies. This superadded probability arises
from the concurrence itself. When, concerning a great
number and variety of circumstances, there is an entire
agreement in the testimony of many witnesses, without
the possibility of a previous collusion between them, the
evidence may, in its effect, be equal to that of strict de-
monstration. That such concurrence should be the result
of chance, is as one to infinite ; or, to vary the expression,
IS a moral impossibility.

To this important kind of evidence we are indebted
for our knowledge of history, of criticism, and of many
parts of jurisprudence ; for all that acquaintance with na*
ture- and the works of nature, which is not founded on

96 LECTURES OH LAW.

our own personal observatioos and experience, but on
the attested experience and observations of others ; and
for the greatest part of that information concerning men
and things, which is necessary, if not to the mere ani->
mal support, yet certainly to the ease, comfort, improve-
ment, and hap{)iness of human life.

In the profession of the law, and in the administra-
tipn of justice, this kind of evidence acquires an import^
ance very peculiar indeed. To examine, to compare,
and to appreciate it, forms much the greatest part of the
business and duty of jurors, and a very great part of
the business and duty of counsel and judges. It is,
therefore, highly interesting to society, that the genuine
and unsophisticated principles of this kind of evidence
should be generally known and understood. From the
very cursory view which we have taken of them, it ap-
pears that the rules observed by the co^mou law, in ad-
mitting and in refusing testimony, are conformable to
the true theory of the hun^an mind, and not to the
warped hypotheses of some philosophical systems.

yill. The eighth source of evidence, which I mtn^
tioned, is human authority in matters of opinion.

" Cuilibet in suft arte perito est credendum" is one
of the maxims of the common law. Lake many other
of its maxims, it is founded in sound sense, and in hu-
man nature.

Under the former head We have aeen, th&t ttle infant
mind, inexperienced and unsuspi<:i6as, trusts itnplicid^
to testimony in matters of fact. It trusts, in the sasae
implicit manner, to auttrarity in matUfs of i9|ridion. In.

LECTURES ON LAW. 97

proportion as the knowledge of men and things is gra-*
dually obtained) the influence of authority as well as of
testimony becomes less decisive and indiscriminate* By
the most prudent, however, and the most enlightened,
it is, at no period of life, suffered to fall into desuetude
or disrepute; even in subjects and sciences, which seem
the most removed from the sphere of its operations.

Let us suppose, that, in mathematicks, the science
in which authority is justly allowed to possess the least
weight, one has made a discovery, which he thinks of
importance : let us suppose that he has ascertained the
triith of this discovery by a regular process of demon-
stration, in which, after the strictest review, he can find
no defect or mistake : will he not feel an inclination to
communicate this discovery to the inspection of a mathe-
matical friend, congenial in his studies and pursuits?
Will this inclination be prompted merely by the pride or
pleasure of making the communication? Will it not arise,
in some degree, from a very different principle — a latent
but powerful desire to know the sentiments of his friend,
not only concerning the merits, but also concerning the
certainty of the discovery ? Will not the sentiments of
his friend, favourable or unfavourable, greatly increase
or diminish his confidence in his own judgment ? A man
must possess an uncommon degree of self-sufficiency,
who feels not an increased reliance on the justness of
his discoveries, when he finds the truth of them fortified
l)y the sientiments of those, who, with regard to the
same subjects, are conspicuous for their penetration and
discernment.

The evidence arising from authority, as well as that
arising from testimony, other circumstances being equal,

VOL. II. o

§8 LECTURES ON LAW.

becomes strong in proportion to the number of those, on.
whose voice it rests. An opinion genersdly received in
all countries and all ages, acquires such an accumulation
of authority in its favour, as to. entitle it to the character
of a first principle of human knowledge.

IX. The ninth kind, into which we have disUnguished
evidence, is that, which arises from memory. The
senses and consciousness give us information of those
things only which exist at present. The memory con-
veys to us the knowledge of those things which are past*
The evidence of memory, therefore, forms a necessary-
link in every chain of proof, by which the past is notified «
This evidence is not less certain than if it was founded
on strict demonstriltion. No man hesitates concerning^
it, or will give his assent to any argument brought to in-
validate it* On it depends, in part, the testimony of
witnesses, and all the knowledge which we possess, con-
cerning every thing which is past.

The memory, aa well as other powers of the mind
which we have already n^ientioned, is an ^original facuky^
and an original source of evidence, bestowed on us by
the Author of our existence Of this faculty we can
give no other account, but that such, in this particular^
is the constitution of our nature. Concerning past
events we receive information from our memory ; but
how it gives this information, it is impossible for us to
explain.^

*^ All our other original faculties, as well as memory^
ar0 unaccountable* He only, who made them, compre-

'^Rei<J.£8S.Iiit.306.

LECTURES ON LAW. ^V^^'*> "

liends fully how they are made, and how they produce in
us not only a conception, hut a firm belief and assurance
of tlttng9, which it concerns us to know."^

Remembrance, however, is not always accompanied
with full assurance. To distinguish by language, those
lively impressions of memory, which, produce indubita-
Jble conviction, from those fainter traces, which occasion
an inferiour degree of assent, or, perhaps, diffidence and
suspense, is, we believe, an impracticable attempt. But
every one is, in fact, competent to distinguish them in
sv^ a manner, as to direct his own judgment and con-
duct.

X« Evidence arises from experience ; as when from
facts ^ready known, we make inferences to facts of the
mrneVmAy unknown.

This branch of our subject is of great extent, of much
practicsd utility, and highly susceptible of curious and
instructive investigation. But it cannot, on this occasion,
be treated as fully as it deserves to be treated.

The sources, from which experience flows, are— the
external senses^ consciousness, memory* The senses and
eonsciQusness give information to the mind of the exist-
ing facts, which are placed within the sphere of their
operation. These articles of intelligence, when received,
are committed to the charge of the memory. From all
these faculties, however, there results only the knowledge
oi such facts as have come, or now come under our notice.
B«it> in order to render this knowledge of service to us

^ Reid's Ess. Int Sia

100 LECTURES ON LAW.

in directing our own conduct, and in discovering the
nature of things, a further process of the mind becomes
necessary. From the past, or the present, or from both,
inferences must be made to the future : those inferences
form that kind of evidence, which arises from experi-
ence.

If an object is remembered to have been frequently,
still more, if it is remembered to have been constantly,
succeeded by certain particular consequences ; the con-
ception of the- object naturally associates to itself the
conception of the consequences ; and on the actual appear-
ance of the object, the mind naturally anticipates the
appearance of the consequences also. This connexion
between the object and the frequent or constant conse-
quences of the object, is the foundation of those inferences,
which, as we have observed, form the evidence airising
from experience.

If the consequences have followed the object constantly,
and the observations of this constant connexion have
been sufficiently numerous ; the evidence, produced by
experience, amounts to a moral certainty. If the con-
nexion has been frequent, but not entirely uniform ; the .
evidence amounts only to probability ; and is more or
less probable, in proportion as the connexions have been ;
more or less frequent. That cork will float on the sur-
,face of water, and that iron will sink in it, are truths,
of which we are morally certain ; because these inferences
are founded on connexions both sufficiently numerous
and sufficiently uniform. We are not morally certain
whether oak timber will float or sink in water; because,
in some circumstances, it sinks, and, in other circum-
*tances, it floats. But, if the circumstances uniformly

LECTURES ON LAW. 101

attending the contrary efFects arc specified ; then, under
that specification, we can tell, with moral certainty,
-whether the timber will sink or swim.

This evidence, by which we infer what the future
will be from what the past has been, is the effect of an
original principle, implanted in the human mind. This
principle appears in our most early infancy. The child,
who is burnt, is soon taught to dread the fire. A great
and necessary part of our knowledge is drawn from this
source, before we are able to exercise the reasoning
faculty. It is an instinctive prescience of the operations
of nature, very similar to that prescience of human
actions, by which we are made to rely upon the testi-
mony of our fellow men. Without the latter, we could
not receive information, by the means of language, con-
cerning the sentiments of those, with whom we converse :
without the former, we could not, by means of experi-
ence, acquire knowledge concerning the operations of
nature. When we arrive at the years of discretion and
are capable of exercising our reasoning power, this in-
stinctive principle retains in us all its force ; but we
become more cautious in its application. We observe ^
with more accuracy, the circumstances attending the
appearance of the object and its consequences, smd
learn to distinguish those« which are regularly, from
those which are only occasionally, to be discovered.
■»•

On this principle is built the whole stupendous fabrick
of natural' philosophy ; and if this principle were removed^
that fabrick, solid and strong as it is, iiyrould tumble in
ruins to the very foundation. " That natural effects of
the same kind are produced by the same causes," is a
first principle laid down by the great Newton, as one of
his laws of philosophizing.

100 LECTURES ON LAW.

On the same principle depends the science of pcditick^,
which draws its rules from what we know by eiq>erienjce
concerning the conduct and character of men. From this
experience we conclude, that they will bestow some care
and attention on themselves, on their families, and on
their friends ; that, without some temptation, they will
not injure one another; that, on certain occasions, they
will discover gratitude, and, on others, resentment. In
the science of politicks, we consider not so much what
man ought to be, as what he really is ; and from thence
we make inferences concerning the part which he will
probably act, in the different circumstances and situations^
in which he may be placed. From such considerations
we reason concerning the causes and consequences of
different governments, customs, and laws. H man were
either better or worse, more perfect or less perfect, than
he is, a proportioned difference ought to be adopted in
the systems formed, and the provisicHis made, for the re*
gulatxon of his conduct.

The same principle is the criterion, at least, if it is not
the foundation, of all moral reasoning whatever. It is
the basis of prudence in the management of the affairs
and business of human life. Scarcely can a plan be form-
ed, whether of a publick or evenof a more private nature,
which depends solely on die behaviour of him who forms
it : it must depend also on the behaviour of others ; and
must proceed upon the supposition, that those others will,
in certain given circumstances, act a certain given part.

XI. Evidence arises from analogy, as well as froTa
experience. The evidence of analogy is, indeed, nothing
more than a vague experience, founded on some remote
aimilitude* When the circulation of the Uood in one

LECTURES ON LAW. 103

human body was verified by experiftient, this was cer-
tainly a sufficient evidence, from experience, that, in every
other human body, the blood, in like manner, circulates.
When we reflect on the strong resemblance which, in
many particulars, the bodies of some other animals, qua-
drupeds, for instance, bear to the human body ; and
especially on that resemblance, which is discovered in
the blood vessels, in the blood itself, and in the pulsation
of the heart and arteries ; we discover evidence, from
analogy, of the circulation of the blood in those other
animals ; for instance, in quadrupeds. In this^ application
of the experiment, however, the evidence is unquestion-
ably weaker than in that, which is transferred from one
to another man. Yet, wheii the analogies are numerous,
and evidence of a closer and more direct application is
not to be obtained, the evidence from analogy is far from
being without its operation and its use.

Its use, we acknowledge, appears more in answering
objections, than in furnishing direct proofs. It may, for
this reason, be considered as the defensive rather than
the offensive armour of a speaker. It rarely refutes ; but
it repels refutations : it cannot kill the enemy ; but it
wards off his blows.

Much of the evidence in natural philosophy rises not
higher, than that which is derived from analogy. Wc
leam from experience, that there is a certain gradation
in the scale of certain animals : we conclude from ana-
logy, that this gradation extends farther than our experi-
ence reaches. Upon the foundation of analogy, the
systems of ancient philosophy concerning the material
world were entirely built. My Lord Bacon first deli-
neated, and, in some instances, applied the strict and

104 LECTURES ON LAW.

severe method of induction from experiment. Since his
time, this has been employed in natural philosophy,' with
the greatest success.

To the common lawyer, the evidence of analogy is a
jsulgect of very .great extent and importance.

In speaking of judicial decisions, my Lord Chief
Justice Hale distinguishes them into twd kinds : one con- '
sists of such as have their reasons singly in the laws and
customs of the kingdom. In these the law gives an ex*
press decision; and the judge is only the instrument,
which pronounces it. The other kind consists of deci-
sions, which are framed and deduced, as his Lordship.

says, by way of deduction and illaticm upon those laws.

< -

' A competition between opposite analogies is tlie prin-
ciple, into which a very great number of legal controver*
ides may he justly resolved. When a particular point of
law has been.once directly adjudged f the adjudication is
deemed decisive as to that question^ and to every other
which, in all its circumstsmces, corresponds completely
with that question. But questions arise^ whidh resenible
the decided question only in some parts, in certain cir-
cumstances, and in certain indirect aspects; and which^
'it is contended, bear, in other aspects, in. other circum-
stances, and in other parts, a much closer and stronger
resemblance to other cases, which have been likewise
adjudged. To stating, to comparing, and to enforcing
those x>pposite, analogies, on the opposite sides, much of
the business of the bar is appropriated. In discerning
the force and extent of the distinctions which are taken ;
in- framing an adjudication in such a manner, as to pre-
serve unimpeached the various former decisions, from

I.ECTURE& ON LAW; 105

vrkich the cont^dd^g analogies have been drawn ; or, if
all caimot be 80 preserved, yet so as that the weaker may
be given up to the stronger — in this, much of the wisdom
^ ^oA sagacity of the court are employed and dbpl^yed.

The laite celebrated dispute ccmcerning literary :pr<>-
perty will place this subject, and tke remarks which fai»re
been made concerning it, in a very striking point of
view« On one b«Bbd, the time which an aittbor empioys^
the pams which he takes, and the indu^Ury which he e»-
4Sf^^ in the prodaction 6t his litejfary perfpr;uanee,.be«r
the nearest and the most marked resea^laaee to the
industry exerted, to the paina taken, and to the time
employed, in the acquisition of property of every other
kind. This resemblance, so striking and, so strong,
between the labour bestowed in thb, and the labour' be-
stowed in any other, way, justifies the inference and the
claim, th»t he,, who b^towed the labour in tbia wagr^
should be entitled to the same, perpetual, assigBAbte^
a^d eixlusive right in die production of the Ubour tibua
bestowed; and diould receive the same protection c£
tbe law in the enjoyment of this perpetital, aaaignabley
asaden^chuive right, as; is given and decreed to thoa*
who bestow their labour in any other manner* Thia is
the analogy on one side. On the other hand, a book,
c^nsidei^d with respect to the author's right in it, has a
pecidiar resemblance to any other invention of art ; the
dkcQvery,' for instance, of a new medicine, or of anew
machine. Now, in these instances^ unless an exdusifva
right is Mcured to the iaventor hy a patent, theL.law per*
naits dlie machine or medicine to. bemused or imitated*
W!^^ slieadd not the same lil^i4y be enjoyed in the puk
lication and sale of books ? This is the analogy on the
other aide.

TOL. II, 7

106 t£CTUR£8 OH LAV.

XII. Evidence arises from judgment. By jndgment
I here mean that power of the mind, which decides upOA
selfevident truths. This is a much more extensive
power than is generally imagined. It is, itself, a distinct
and original source of evidence ; and its jurisdiction is
exercised in ^ the other kinds of evidence, which have
been already enumerated.

'^ There are conceptions, which ought to be reCeived
to the faculty of judgment as their source: because, if
we had not that faculty, they could not enter into our
minds ; and to those who have that faculty, and are ca-
pable of reflecting on its operations, they are obvious aad
familiar.

^^ Among these, we may reckon the conception of
judgment itself; the notions of a proposition, -of its sub»
ject, predicate, and copula ; of affirmation and negation ;
of true and false ; of knowledge, belief, disbelief, opi-
nion, assent, evidence. From no source could we acquiee
4hese conceptions, but from reflecting on our judgments.
Ilelations of things make one great class of our notions
or ideas; and we cannot have the idea of any relation
without some exercise of judgment."^

By our senses, we have certain sensations and ^ er«
ceptions. But to furnish us with these, is not the only,
oer is it, indeed, the principal office of our senses. They
are powers, by which we judge, as well as feeLand per*
ceive« A man, who has become blind, may, nevertbe**
less, retain very distinct conceptions of the several co.
lours; but he cannot, any longer, judge ccmceinins

y Reid. Ess. Int 500, SOt.

XEGTITKES ON ^AWt 107

oolQurs; because he h^s lost the sense, the immediate
c^ration of which is necessary in order to enable him
to fofm such judgment. By our ears, we have the ideas
of sounds of different, kinds, such as acute and grave^
soft and loud. But this sense enables us not only to. hear,
but to judge of what we hear. We perceive one sound
to be loud, another to be soft. When we hear more
sounds, than one, we perceive and judge that some are
concords, and that others are discords. These are judg*
ments of the senses.'

Judgment exercises its power concerning the evidence
^f consciousness, as well as coyceming the evidence of
the senses. The man, who is conscious of an object^
believes that it exists, and is what he is conscious it is ;
nor is it in his power to avoid such judgment. Whether
judgment ought to be called a necessary concomitant, or
-rather an ingredient, of • these operations of the mind,
it is not material to inquire; but one thing is certain •
they are accompanied with a determination that something
is true or fal^, and with a consequent belief. This de-
termination is not simple apprehension ; it is not reason^
ing ; it is a mental affirmation or negation ; it may be
expressed by a proposition aflSirmative or negative ; and
. it is accompanied with the firmest belief. These are the
characteristicks of judgment*. This name is sometimes
given to every determination of the mind conceining
,what is true or what is false.^ Under this head, I ap-
ply it, and confine it to that degree of judgment, which
is commensurate with what is sometimes called common
sense : for, in truth, common sense means common
judgmcnt.c

"^ Reid Ess. Act 33/, 238. "" Reid. Ess. Int 501, 50a

>> Id. 504, 533. 534. « Id. 533, 530^ 531.

\ I

/

iOi 11E€TI7KfiS OH lAW*

Farther ; judgment is implied in ever^ optMti^tt
of taste. When we say a statue or a poem is beauti*
ful^ we afirm something eoncieming that poem cmp
statue : but every affirmation or denial expresses judg*
me&t« Our judgment of beauty is not) inde^ed^ dry aaad
uninteresting, like that of a mathematical truth. It ift
accompanied with an agreeable feeling or emotion, for
w%ich we have no appropriated term. It is called the
sense of beauty*

Judgment is exerted also in the operations of our
mm'al sense. When we exercise our moral powers con*
eeming our own action%or those of ^hers, we judge a»
well as feel. We 4lcuse and excuse ; we aequk afi€
ccmdemin , we assent and dissent i w^ believe- md dts«
believe. These are all wts of judgaaenti*^

In short, we judge of the quali&es of bodies 1^ our
external senses $ we judge concerning what passes in our
minds by our consciousness % we judge concerning beauty
and deformity by our taste ; we judge concerning viitue
-and vice by our moral sense : but, in all these cases, we
judge ; in most of them, our judgment is «ccOmp^ied 1^
feding. Judgment accompanied by feding form® ^<tet
eomplex operaticm of the mind, which is denomitiatedi
sentiment.

This train of investigation might be canted much fieir^
ther \ bttt, at present, we 3top hey e.

judgment, In "^tit sense in which we here use it, ia
an original and an important source of knowledge," €om«

«]laidfsEi8.Act.fr4.

LXCTUKfiS OH XAW4 109

1XI0& to all men ; and, for tliis reason, is frequetitljr
denominated common sense, as has been already intima^
ted. In different persons, it prevails* indeed, with
different degrees <tf strength ; but none, except idiots,
have been found originally and totally without it.

The laws, we believ^y of every civilised nation
4itistinguitth between those who are, and those who are
not, endonred with this gift of heaven. This gift is
easily discerned by its effects, in the actions, in the dis*
course, and even in the looks of a man. When it is
niiade a question, whether one is or is not possessed of
"riiis power, the courts of justice can usually detennine
the question with much clearness and certainty.

The same degree of udderstanding, which enables one
to aict with common prudence in the business of life,
uiables hitn ilso to discover selfevident truths toncern*
sng matters, of which he has distinct apprehension.

Selfevident truths, of every kind, and in every alt
ttud science, are the objects of that faculty, which is now
under our consideration/ Such truths, or axioms, as
they are distinguished by way of excellence, are the
ibondation of all mathematical knowledge. There are
ttxioms, too, in matters of taste. The fundamental rules
of poetry, and painting, and eloquence, have riways
been, and, we may venture to add, always will be the
flame. The science of morais is ^so founded on axioms ;
maoay of which are accompanied with intuitive evi*
dence, not less strong than that which is discovered m.
the axioms of, mathematieks. Mathematical axiMst
tan never extend their influence beyond the limits of
abstract knowledge. Jiut with axioms in odi^ bnuicbei

110 LSCTUREft OK IbAW.

of science, the whole business of human life is closelj
and strongly connected.

XIII. Evidence arises from reasoning.

One observation, which I made concerning judgment,
may be made^ with the same propriety, concerning rea-
soning. It is, itself, a distinct and original source of
evidence ; and its jurisdiction is exercised also in evi-
dence of every other kind. This suggests a very
probable account why reason has been considered hy
many philosophers as the only source and criterion of
evidence : for the powers both of judgment and of rea-
soning have been frequently blended uncl^r the name of
reason.

As the conception of judgment should be referred
to the faculty of judgment ; so the conception of rear
soning should be referred to the reasoning faculty, as its
source. The ideas of demonstration, of probability,
and of all the dilRFerent modes of reasoning, take their
origin from the faculty of reason. Without this faculty^
we could not be possessed of those ideas.

The power of reasoning is somewhat allied to the
power of judging. Reasoning, as well as judgment, must
be true or false ; both are accompanied with assent or
belieL There is, however, a very material distinction
between them. Reasoning is the process, by which we
pass from oi^ truth to another as a conclusion from it*
In all reasoning, there must be a proposition inferred^
and one or more, from which the inference is drawn.
The proposjlipn infen-ed is called the conclusion: the
name of premises is given to thp proposition or propcw

LECTU&ES ON LAW. Ill

&Utoas, from which the conclusion is inferred* ^ When a
chain of reasoning consists of many links, it is easilj
distinguished from judgment. But when the conclusion
is connected with the premise^ by a single link, the dis*
tinction becomes less obvious ; and the process is some-
times called by one name ; sometimes by the other*

In a series of legitimate reasoning, the evidence
of every step should be immediately discernible to those
who have a distinct comprehension of the premises and
the conclusion.

The evidence, which arises from reasoning, is divided
into two species— demonstrative and moral. The nature,
the Uiiflference, and the uses of these twq species of
evidence, it is of great importance clearly and fully to
understand.

Demonstrative evidence has fpr its subject abstract
and necessary truths, or the unchangeable relations of
ideas. Moral evidence has for its subject the real but
contingent truths and connexions, which take place
among things actually existing. Abstract truths have no
respect to time or place ; they are universally and eter-
nsdly the same.

If these observations are just— and they are agreeable
to the sentiments of those who have written most accu*
rately on this subject— we may see the impropriety of
my \Lord phief Baron Gilbert's remark, when he says
that ^^ all demonstration is founded on the view of a
man's proper senses." From hence w*e may see likewise
the inaccuracy of Sir William Blackstone's description
Qf evidence, when h« mentions it as demonstrating the

tl3 LSCTUJUIS OM LAW.

▼erjr fact in issue. The otjects of our senseft sre olgect»
of moral, but not of demonstradve eYtdenoe.

By writers on the civil law, the scienttfick distinctioB^
^ipon this subject, is accurately obsenred* Trutfas4iloae^
say they,^ which depend on abstract principles, are 8ii9»
ceptible of demonstrative evidence : truths, that depend
on matters of fact, however conq[dete n»y be the evi'*
dence by which they are established, can never become
demonstrative..

In a series of demonstrative evidence, the inference^
is^ every step, is necessary ^ for it is inpipossible that, from
the premises, the conclusion should not flow. In a ae-
xies of moral evidence, the inference. drawn in the seve«
ral steps is not necessary ; nor is it impossible that thc^
, premises should be true, while the conclusion drawu
from them is false.

In demonstrative evidence, there are no degreea ;
one demonstration may be more easily comi^rehended^
but it cannot be stronger than another.^ Every necessary
truth leaves no possibility of its being, falsci. In moral
evidence, we rise, by an insensible gradation^ from. pQa*-^
sibility to probability, and from probability to tl^e hig^hest
degree of moral certainty.

In moral evidence, there not only may he, , but there
gtnerally is^ contrariety of proofe ; in dembastrMivQ
evidence, no such contrariety can take place. If oivc^
djemonatration cap. be refuted^ it must b& by another de*
nstfirostrMion : but to suppose that two cox^trary depoa-

t Boqrc TiJ^ Iw^xxidepQ^ vqIk^. part $. p. 7413. (Frenob^

LtCTUlLEB OK LAW. IJS

strauons can e^st, is to suppose that the same, pit>posi*
tion is both true and fabe : which is maBifestly. absurd*
With regard to moral eyidence, there is| for the moat
part, real evidence on hoih aid^s^ On both si4as> coi^trary
presumptions, contrary testimonies, contrary ^3iperienc(s^
must be balanced* The probability, on the whole, is,
eettsequendy, in the proportion, in wbiah the evidence
em, one side preponderates ov^r the evidence on th^ ptbar
aide.

Demonstrative evidence is simple : in it there. is only
one coherent series, every part of which depends on
what precedes, and suspends what follows. In demon-
strative reasoning, therefore, one demonstration is equal
to a thousand. To add a second would be a tautolog7
in this kind of evidence. A second, it is true, is some-
times employed ; but it is employed as fin exercise of
ingenuity, not as an additional proof. Moral evidence
is generally complicated : it depends not upon any one
argmnent, but upon many independent proofs, which,
however, combine their strength, and draw on the sam^
conclusion*

In point of auAority, demonstrative evidence is supe^
riour : moral evidence is superiour in point of importance.
By the former, the understanding is enlightened, and
many of the elegant and useful arts are improved. By
the latter, society ia supported ; and the usual but indis.
pensable affairs of life s«*e regulated. To the acquisi-
tions made by the latter, .we owe the )cnowle4ge of al#
^most every thing, whkh distinguishes th^ man from tbf
ehild.

VOL. II. A

114 tECTURKS oir x^w.

XIV. Evidence arises from calcuUtioiis com^trjaing
chances* This kind of evidence does not occur vexy
frequently* I take particular notice of it, because if is of
much importance in some commercial transactions ; es{ie« '
cially in those relating to ensurances*

Chance furnishes materials for calculation, only urbea
we kpow the remote cause, which will produce some <Mie
event of a given number ; but know not the immediate
cause, which will determine in favour of any one parti*
cular event of that given number, in pref^ence to any
other particular event. In calculating chances, it is ne«
cessary that a great number of instances be taken into
consideration ; that the greatest exactness and impartiali-
ty be used in collecting them on the opposite sides ; and
that there be no peculiarity in any of them, which would
render it improper for becoming apart pf the basis of a
general conclusion.

I have now finished the long, I will not say, the com-
plete enumeration of the different, sources and kinds of
evidence. Between several of them something will be
found to be analogous. But, upon the most careful re-
view, It will, I think, appear, that no one of them can be
resolved into any other. Hence the propriety of consi-
dering and treating them separately and distinctly. Much
advantage will, I believe, be reaped from acquiring and
-e:(ercising a habit of considering them in this separate
and distinct manner^ For this purpose, it will be proper,
when a trial of much variety and importance is perused
t>r heard, to digest; at leisure, those things which ape
given or which appear in evidence, and refer them to
their several sources and kinds. After this has been
done, it will be of great use carefully to arrange^ the dif*

L

' LECTURES ON XAW. llif

ferent 8<»ts and {iarts of the evidence, and compare them
together in point of solidity, clearness, and force. A
habit of analyzing, combining, methodising, and balan^
cing evidence, in this manner, will be a constant and a
valuable resoisrce in the practice of the law. Every one,
who has observed or experienced that practice, must be
sensible, that a lawyer's time and attention are more
employed, and his talents are more severely tried, by
^questions and debates on evidence, than by those on all
&e other titles of the law, various, intricate, and exten*
sive as they are.

To wield the weapons of evidence foritis an important
article in a lawyer's art. To wield them skilfully evinces
a good he£(d : to wield them honestly as well as skilfully
evinces, at once, a good head and a good heart ; and
^tfiects equal honour on the profession and on the man.

I have, on this occasion, said nothing concerning the
artilicisd rules of evidence, which are framed by the law
for convenience in courts of justice. These, unquestion-
ably, ought to be studied and knbwn. Concerning these,
much learning may be found in the several law books.
Particular rules ma^y be seen, adapted to particular cases.
Anmtimate acquaintance with those rules will be of great
practical utility in what I may call the retail business of
the law ; a kind of business by no means to be neglected ;
a kind of business, however, which should not be suffered
to usurp the place of what is far more essential — ^the study
and the practice too of the law, as a science founded ou
principle, and on the nature of man. The powers and
the operations of the human mind are the native and
original fountains of evidence. Gaudy, but scanty and
' temporary cascades may sometimes be supplied by art*

115 LfeCTtREli ON LAW.

But the natural springs alotie ean fumish ^ tomrttnt ttftd
an abundant supply. He, too, who is in full possessitm
of these, can, with the greatest facility, and to' the gi-eat*
est advantage, display their streamB, on proper occasiiMeis^
in all the forms, and with all the omaments^ suggdfrtedi
and prepared by the most artificial contrivnnces^

It is generally supposed — and, indeed, our law book^i
so far as I recollect, go upon the supposition^-^hat th0
evidence, which influences a court and jury, df&pemis
altogether upon what is said by the witnesses, or read
from the papers. This, however, is very far from beiiig
the case. Much depends oti the jfleadings of the counsel.
His pleadings depend much on a masterty knowledge and
management of the principles of evidence. Evidence is
the foundation of conviction : conviction is the founda-
tion of persuasion : to convey persuasion is th*e etid of
pleading. From the principles' of evidence, therefore,
must be drawn that train and tenour of reasoning, which
will acco!mplish the aiih of the pleader, and produce the
perfection of his art.

A rich and an immense prospect opens toi iKly vieir>
but I cannot now attempt to describe it*

THE END OF THE TOIST PART.

PART 11.

CHAPTER I.

or. THE CONSTITUTIONS OF THB: UNITED STATES AND
OF PENNBTLVANIA— OF THE LEGISLATIVE DEPART*
MENT,

XN my fhxXf I mentioned, that I would coniSider our
municipal law tmder two great divisions; that, under
the first, I would treat of the lan^, as it relates to persons;
and that, under the second, I would treat of it, as it
relates to things. I pursue those two great divisions ;
and begin with persons.

Persons are divided into two kinds— natural and arti«
£cial* Natural persons are formed by the great Author
of nature. Artificisd persons are the creatures of hu*
man sagacity and contrivance ; and are framed and in*
tended for the purposes of government and society.

When we coxH^mplate the con^dtuticni and the law*
of the United States and of the commonwealth of

lis LECTUaES ON LAW.

Pennsylvania ; the mighty object, which first arrests our
attention, is — ^the people. In the laws of England, as
they have been imposed or received during the last
seven centuries, the "people" is a title, which has scarce-
ly found a place, or, if it has found a place occastonaUyv
it has attracted but a very disproportionate degree, of
notice or regard. Of the prerogative of the king, fre-
quent and respectful mention is made : he is considered
and represented as the fountain of authority,'of honour,
of justice, and even of the most important species of
property. Of the majesty of the people, little is said in.
the books of our law. When they are introduced upon
the legal stage, they are considered as the body, of
which the king is the head, and are viewed as the sub*'
jects of his crown and government.

This has noit been the case in all countries ; it has' not-
been the case in England at all times. It hasj indeed,
been the case too often and too generally; but the pages
of literature will furnish us with a few brilliant exceptions.
Of one permit me to take a very particular notice ; for of
a very particular notice it is highly deserving;

At the mention of Athens, a thousand refined and en-
dearing associations rush immediately into the memory
of the scholar, the philosopher, the statesman, and the
patriot. When Homer, one of the most correct, as well
as the oldest and one of the most respectable, of human
authorities, enumerates the other nations of Greece,
whose forces acted in the siege of Troy ; he arranges
them under the names of their different kings : but when
he come^ to the Athenians, he distinguishes them by the
peculiar appellation of " the people" * of Athens.

* JimfUf. Pot 12. Iliad 1. 2. v. 547.

lECTURES OK LAW. 119

Let it not surprise you, that I cite Homer as a very
respectable authority. That celebrated writer was' not
more remarkable for the elegance and sublimity, than he
was for the truth and precision, of his compositions*
-The geographer, who could not relish the exquisite
t)eauties of his poetry, felt, however, uncommon satis-
faction in ascertaining, by the map, the severe accuracy
of his geographical descriptions. But let me mention
what is still more to my present purpose and justification.
From one of the orations of iEschines it appears highly
probable,** that in the Athenian courts of justice, the
poems of Homer, as well as the laws of Athens, were
always laid upon the table before the judges ; and that
the clerk wairfffequently applied to, by the orator, to read
passages from the former, as well as from the latter.
On the authority of two lines from Homer's catalogue
of the Grecian fleet, was determined a controversy
between the Athenians and the inhabitants of Salamis.
His imnlortal poems, like a meteor in the gloom of night,
jMrighten the obscure antiquities of his country ? ^

By some of the most early' accounts, which hav«
been transmitted to us concerning Britain, we are inform-
ed,^ that " the people held the helm of government in
their own power,'' ^ This spirit of independence was a
ruling principle among the Saxons likewise. Concerning
^heir original, it is both needless and fruitless— -I use the
expressions of the very learned Selden* — to enter the
lists; whether they were natives from the northern parts
of Germany, or the relicks of the army under Alexan-
jier* But their government, adds he, was, in general,
90 suitable to that of the Grecians, that it cannot be

^I.j6iil36« c l.6itt,3. ^ Bm on Gov. 3. « 14.9.

tZO LXGTUaES ON LAW.

imagined but much of the Grecian wisdom was derived
into those paits. The people were a free people, governed
hy laws which they themselves made ; and, for this reason,
they were denominated free. This, he subjoins, was
like unto the manner of the Athenians.

The Saxons were called freemen, because they were
born free from all yoke of arbitrary power, and from all
laws of compulsion, except those which were made by
their voluntary consent : for all freemen have votes in
making and executing the general laws. ^ The freedom
of a Saxon consisted in the three following particulars.
1. In the ownership of what he had. 2. In voting upon
any law, by which his person or prop#ty could be
affected. 3. In possessing a share in that judiciary
power, by which the laws were appliedt ^

By this time, we clearly perceive the exquisite pro-
priety, historical as well as political, with which the
people appear in the foreground of die national constitu^
tion and of that of Pennsylvania. " We, the people of
the United States, ordain and estaUidi this constitution
for the United States of America." " We, the people
of the commonwealth of Pennsylvania^ ordain and eata^
blish this constitution for it9 government.''

In free states, the people form an artificial penon or
body politick, the highest and noblest that can be known.
They form that moral person, which, in one of my
former lectures,^ I described as a complete body of free
natural persons, united together for their common beii#r

' Bac. on Gov. 34, f U 84

« ^ Ante. vbL 1. p. 304. 305.

lECTURES ON LAW. l^i

fit ; as having an understanding and a will ; as deliberating,
jand resolving, and acting; as possessed of interests
which it ought to manage ; as enjoying rights which it
ought to maintain ; and as lying under obligations which
it ought to perform. To this moral person, we assign,
by way of eminence, the dignified appellation of state.

In discussing the rights and duties of a state, I obsenr*
edj that it is its right, and that, generally, it is its duty,
to form a constitution, to institute civil government,
and to estaMish laws. The general principles^ on which
.constitutions should be formed, government should be
instituted, and laws should be established, were treated
at large then, and will not be repeated now. It is my
present business to trace the application of those princi-
ples, as that application has been practically made by
dte people of the United States, and, in particular, by
the people of Pennsylvania.

I mention the people of Pennsylvania in particular ;
because, in discussing this system, it is necessary that
I should select the constitution, and government, and
laws of some on^ of the states in the Union; and because
it is natural, for many reasons, that Pennsylvania should
be the state, whose constitution, and government, and
laws are selected for this discussion. The' observations,
however, which I shall have occasion to make with
regard to Pennsylvania, will, in the greatest number of
instances, apply to her sister states, with an equal degree
of propriety. Whenever any v6ry striking difference
or coincidence shall occur to me, I shall distinguish it"
by an especial noUce.

TOL. J I. ^

122 LECTURKS ON LAW.

The people of^ the United States must be considered
attentively in two very different views— as forming one
nation, great and united ; and as forming, at the same
time, a number of separate states, to that nation sabor-
dinate, but independent as to their own interiour govern-
ment. This very important distinction must be continualljr
before our eyes. If it be properly observed, every things
will appear regular and proportioned : if it be neglected,
endless confusion and intricacy will unavoidably ensue*.

The constitution of the United States is arranged, as
we have formerly seen it ought to be, under three great
divisions — the legislative department, the executive
department, and the judicial department.

The legislative power is divided between two differ-
ent bodies, a senate, and a house of representatives*
The reasons and the importance of this division were
explained in a former part (^ my lectures.^

In discoursing farther concerning the legislature of
the United States, I shall regulate myself by the follow-
ing order. I shall treat, I. of the election of its members;
II. of their number ; III. of the term, for which they
are elected ; IV. of the laws, and rules, and powers o£
the two houses ; V. of the manner of passing laws i VJ^
of the powers of congress.

i. I am first to treat concerning the election of members
of congress. Many of the remarks, which I shall make
on this subject, will be applicable to the election of
members of the general assembly of this commonwealth;

^ Ante, voL 1. p. 394 &€.

LECTURES ON LAW* ld3

«

for the assembly of Pennsylvania, like the congress of
the United States, consists of two bodies, a senate and a
house of representatives* Some important articles of
discrimination will be noticed in their proper places.

The constitution of the United States and that of
Pennsylvania rest solely, and in all their parts, on the
great democratical principle of a representation of the
people ; in other words, of the moral person, known by
the name of the state. This great principle necessarily
draws along with it the consideration of another principle
equally great — ^the principle of free and equal elections.
To maintain, in purity and in vigour, this important prin-
ciple, whose energy should pervade the most distant parts
of the government, is the first duty, and ought to be the
first c^rc, of every free.state. This is the original foun-
tain, from which all the streams of administration flow.
If this fountain is poisoned, the deleterious influence will
extend to the remotest corners of the state : if this foun-
tain continues pure and salubrious, the benign operation
ef its waters will diffuse universal health and soundness.

Let me, by the way, be indulged with repeating a
remark, which was made and fully illustrated in a former

*

lecture^ — ^that government, founded solely on represen-
tation, made its first appearance on this, and not on the
European side of the Atlantick.

Of the science of just and equal government, the pro-
gress, as we have formerly seen, has been small and slow.
Peculiarly small and slow has it been, in the discovery
and improvement of the interesting doctrines of election

J Ante,V©l.l.p.439.

124 LECTURES ON LAW.

and represcntatioD. If, with regard to other subjects^
government may be said, as it has been said, to be still in
its infancy ; we may, with regard to this subject, consider
it as only in its childhood* And yet this is the subject^
which must form the basis of every government, that is,
at once, efficient, respectable, and free.

The pyramid of government-— and a republic^ go-
vernment may well receive that beautiful and solid form
— should be raised to a dignified altitude : but its foun-
dations must, of consequence, be broad, and strong, and
deep. The authority, the interests, and the affections of
the people at large are the only foundation, on which a
superstructure, proposed to be at once durable and mag^
nificent, can be rationally erected*

Representation is the chain of communication between
the people and those, to whom they have committed the
exercise of the powers of government. If the materials,
which form this chain, are sound and strong, h is unne-
cessary to be solicitous about the very high degree,, to
which they are polished. But in order to impart to them,
the true republican lustre, I know no means mose effectual,
than to invite and admit the freemen to the right of suC*
frage, and to enhance, as much as possible, the value of
that right. Its value cannot, in truth, be enhanced too
highly. It is a right of the greatest import, and of the
most improving efficacy. It is a right to choose those,
who shaU be intrusted widi the authority and with the
confidence of the people : and who may employ that au«
thority and that confidence for the noblest interests of the
commonwealth, without the apprehension of disappoint-
ment or control.

LECTURES OK LAW, 125

This surely must have a powerful tendency to open,
to enlighten, to enlarge, and to exalt the mind. I cannot^
ipvith sufficient energy, express my own conceptions of the
value and the dignity of this right. In real majesty, an
independent and unbiassed elector stands superiour to
princes, addressed by the proudest titles, attended by the
xnost magnificent retinues, and decorated with the most
splendid regalia. Their sovereignty is only derivative,
like the pale light of the moon : his is original, like the

beaming splendour of the sun.

»

The benign influences, flowing from the possession
and exercise of this right, deserve to be clearly and fully
pointed out. I wish it was in my power to do complete
justice to the important subject. Hitherto those benign
influences have been little understood ; they have been
less valued ; they have been still less experienced. This
part of the knowledge and practice of government is yet,
as has been observed, in its childhood. Let us, however,
nurse and nourish it. In due time, it will repay our
care and our labour ; for, in due time, it will grow to the
strength and stature of a full and perfect man.

The man, who enjoys the right of suffrage, on the
extensive scale which is marked by our constitutions, will
naturally turn his thoughts to the contemplation of pub*
lick men and publiek measures. The inquiries he will
make, the information he will receive, and his own re*
flections on both. Will afford a beneficial and amusing
employment to his mind. I am far from insinuating, that
every citizen should be an enthusiast in politicks, or that
the interests of himself, his family, and those who de-
pend on him for their comfortable situation in life, should
be absorbed in Quixote specuhtions about the mana^

126 LECfURES OK I^AW.

xnent of the reformation of the state. But there is suirety
'm golden mean m things ; and there can be no real incom-
patibility between the discharge of one's publick, and that
of his private duty. Let private industry receive the
warmest encouragement , fen* it is the basis of p^ublick
happiness. But must the bow of honest industry be
always bent ? At no moment shall a little relaxation be
allowed? That relaxation, if properly directed, may
prove to be instructive as well as agreeable. It may con-
sist in reading a newspaper, or in conversing with a felr
low citizen. May not the newspaper convey dome inte-
resting intelligence, or contain some useful essay ? May
ixot the conversation take a pleasing and an improving
turn ? Many hours, I believe, are every where spent, in
talking about the unimportant occurrences of the day, ,or
in the neighbourhood ; and, perhaps, the frailties or the
imperfections of a neighbour form, too often, one of the
sweet but poisoned ingredients of the discourse. Would
it be any great detriment to society or to individuals, if
other characters, and with different views, were more^
frequently brought upon the carpet ?

Under our constitutions, a nuni^r of important ap«
pointmenta must be made at every election. To make
them is, indeed,^ the business only of a day. But it ought
to be the business of much more than a day, to be pre-
pared for making them well. When a citizen elects to
office — ^let me repeat it — ^he performs an act of the first
political consequence. He should be employed, on every
convenient occasion, in making researches after proper
persons for filling the different departments of 'power $
in discussing, with his neighbours and fellow citizens,
the qualities, which ought to be possessed by those, who
enjoy places of publick trust ; and in acquiring informs-

LECTURES ON LAW. 127

tion, with the spirit of manly candour, concerning the
manners and characters of those, who are lijcely to be
•andidates for the publick choice.

A habit of conversing and reflecting on these subjects^
and of governing his actions by the result of his delibe-
rations, would produce, ii:\ the mind of the citizen, a
uniform, a strong, and a lively sensibility to the interests
of his country. The same causes will effectuate a warm
and enlightened attachment to those, who are best fitted,
and best disposed, to support and promote those interests.
By these means and in this manner, pure and genuine
patriotism, that kind, which consists in liberal investiga-
tion and disinterested conduct, is produced, cherished,
and strengthened in the mind : by these means and in
this manner, the warm and generous emotion glows and
is reflected from breast to breast.

Investigations of this nature are useful andimprbving,
not to their authors only ; they are so to their objects
likewise. The love of honest and well earned fame is
deeply rooted in honest and susceptible minds. Can there
be a stronger incentive to the operations of this passion^
than the hope of becoming the object of well founded and
distinguishing applause i Can there be a more complete
gratification of this passion, than the satisfaction of know-
ing that this applause is given — ^that it is given upon the
most honourable principles, and acquired by the most
honourable pursuits ? To souls truly ingenuous, indiscri-
minate praise, misplaced praise, flattering praise, interest-
ed praise have no bewitching channs. But when publick
approbation is the result of publick discernment, it must
be highly pleasing to those who giv6, i^d to those who
receive it.

tZ$ l.£CT0R£ft ON LAW.

If the foregoing remarks and deductiona be just ; and
I belieTe thej are so ; the right of suffrage, properly un-
derstoot^d) properly valued, and properly exercised, in a
free and well constituted government, is an abundaiU:
source of the most rational^ the most improving, and
the most endearing connexion among the citizens.

All power is originally in the people; and shoidd be
exercised by them in person, if that could be done with
convenience, or even with Uttle difficulty. In some of
the small republicks of Greece, and in the first ages of the
conunonvealth of Rone, the people voted in their ag^
gregate capacity. Among the ancient Germans abo, this
was done upon great occasions. ^^ De minoribus consul*
tant principes," says Tacitus^.^ ^^ de msyoribus-omnes:"
From their practices, some of the finest principles pf
modem govemn^ents are drawn.

But in large states, the people cannot assemble togedier*
As they cannot, therefore, act by themselves, they most
act by their re]|resentatives» And> indeed, in point o£
right, there is no difference between that which is done
by the people in their own persons, imd that which is
done by theit deputies, acting agreeably to the powera
received ixQV^ them. In point of utility ,^ tber-e is aa little
difference ; for there is no advantage, which may not be
obtained from a free and adequate representation, m as
effectual a mattneir, as if every citizen were to deliberate
and vote in person*

To the legitimate energy and weight of tnierepreseop^
tation^ tw^ things are essentisdly necessaiy. 1* That th^

'^ De mor. Germ. Ct 11.

LECTtfUEB ON LAW. 129 -

nepredeiitatives should express the same sentiments, which
-tlfte represented, if possessed of equal informatioQ, would
eacpress. 2» That the sentiments of the representatives,
thus expressed, should have the same weight and influ-
ence, as the sentiments of the constituents would have,
if expressed personally.

To accomplish the first object, all elections ought to
be free. If a man is under no external bias, When he
votes for a representative, he will naturally choose such
as, he imagines, will, on the several subjects which mi^
come before them, speak and act in the same manner
as himself* Everyone, who is not the slave of volun-
tary errour, sapposed thathis own opinions and sentiments
are right : he must likewise suppose, that the sentiments
and opinions of those who think with him ai*e right al^o.
Every other man, equally free from bias» will vote with
similar views. When, therefore, the votes generally or
unanimously centre in the same representatives, it is a
satisfactory proof, that the sentiments of the constituents
are generally or altogether in utiison, with regard to the
matters, which, they think, will be. brought under the
consideration of their representatives ; and also, that the
4Eientiments of the representatives will be, with regard t9
those matters, in unison with those of all, or of a majori-
ty of their ccHistituents*

To accomplish the second object, all elections ought
to be equal. Elections are equal, when a given number
of citizens, in one part of the state, choose as many re-
presentatives, as are chosen by the same number of citii-
2ens, in any other part of th^ state. In this manner, the
proportion of the representatives and of the conaittiuents
will remain invariably the same.
VOL. M. s

130 LECTURES OH LAKT.

If both the requisites are estaUished and preserved^
such counsels will be given, such resolutions will be taken,
and such measures will be pursued, by the representative
body, as will receive the concurrence, the approbation,
and the support of the community at large*

In a free government, it is of essential importance to
ascertain the right of suffrage, and those inhabitants who
are entitled to the exercise of that right. To vote for
members of a legislature, is to perform an act of original
sovereignty. No person unqualified should, therefore^
be permitted to assume the exercise of such preeminent
powers We are told, that, among the Athenians, exqui-
sitely sensible to all the rights of citizenship, a stranger
who interfered in the assemblies of the people, was pu-
nished with death* Such dangerous interference was
considered as a species of treason against their rights of
sovereignty.

A momentous question now occurs— who shall be en-
titled to suffrage ? This darling privilege of freemen
should certainly be extended as far as considerations of
safety and ordel* will possibly admit. The correct theory-
and the true principles of liberty require, that every ci-
tizen, whose circumstances do not render him necessarily-
dependent on the will of another, should possess a vote
in electing those, by whose conduct his property, his
reputation, his liberty, and his life, may be all most ma-
terially affected.

By the constitution of the United States, ^ the mem-
bers of the house of representatives shall be chosen by
the people of the several states. The electors, in each

1 Art. 1. 8. 2.

f

LECTURES ON LAW. 131

State, shall have the qualifications requisite for electors
of the most numerous branch of the state legislature.

This regulation is gederous and wise. It is generous ;
for it intrusts to the constitutions or to the legislatures
of the several states, the very important power of ascer-
taining and directing the qualifications of those, who shalt
be entitled to elect the most numerous branch of the na-
tional legislature. This unsuspicious confidence evinces,
in the national constitution, the most friendly disposition
towards the governments of the several states. For how
can such a proper disposition be evinced more strc^ngly,
than by providing that its legislature, so far as respects
the most numerous branch of it, should stand upon the
same foundation with theirs ; and by providing farther,
that this foundation should be continued or altered by the
states themselves i

This regulation is wise as well as generous. An at-
tention to its genuine principle and tendency must have
9 Strong effect, in preventmg or destroying the seeds of
jeadousy, which mig^t otherwise spring up, with regard
to the genius and views of the national government. It
has embarked itself ontiie same bottom with the govern^
ments of the different states : can a stronger proof be
given of its determination to sink or swim with them i
Can proof be given of a stronger desire to live in mutual
harmony and affection i This is an object of the last im-
portance ; for, to adopt an expression used by my Lord
Bacon, " the uniting of the hearts and affections of the
people is the life and true end of this work." "^

m 4. Ld. Bac. 23a

132 LECTURES OH LAW.

»

The remarks which I have made en this subject
place, in a clear and strikmg point of view, the propriety^
and indeed the political necessity, of a regulation made
in another part of this constHution, In the fourth section
of the fourth article it is provided, that, ^^ the United
States shall guaranty to every state in this Unicm a re*
publican form of government.** Its ovm existence, as a
government of this description, depends en theirs.

As the doctrine concerning elections and the quddifi-
cations of electors is, in every free country, a doctrine
of the first magnitude ; and as the national constitutioft
has, with regard to this doctrine, rested itself on (kc
governments of the several states ; it wilt be highly pro*
per to take a survey of those provisions, which, o» si
subject so interesting, have been made by the dtfertfte
state constitutions : for every state has jus^ deemed
the subject to be of constitutional'importance.

In the constitution ot PennsyWania, the great p^ncU
pk, which animates s»d governs tbis subject, Is seeui^
by 9tv expKcit flechuration, that ^^ eloettons shatt be free
and equak*^ ■* This is enumerated among the great points^
which are ^^ excepted out ef the genef^ powers of go^
iremment, and shall fcfr ever remain kmohte.'*** The
practical €>perat}on of this great and inviokble principle
is thus ^ciRed and cKnei^tedr ** In elections by the ei-
tiaens^ every freeman of the age of twenty one year*,
having resided in the state two years next before the
deotion, and within that time paid a state or county tax,
which shall have been assessed at least six months bc*^
fore the election, shall enjoy the rights of an electon'"*

«Art.9,«.5. •Art9.s.26. p Cons. Pcnn. Art. 3. s. 1.

1 »

V

LECTURES ON XAV. 133

It well deserves, in this place, to be remarked, how
coageaial, upon this great subject, the principles of the
constitution of Pennsylvania are to those adopted by the
government of the Saxons* The Saxon freemen, as we
have already seen, had votes in making their general
laws. ^ The freemen of Pennsylvania, as we now see,
enjoy the rights of electors. This right, it has been shown,
is equivalent, and, in a stsrte of any considerable extent,
must, on every principle of order and convenience, be
substituted to the other. This is far from being the only
instance, in which we shall have the pleasure of finding
tke old Saxon maxims of government renewed in the
American constitutions. Particular attention will be paid
to them, as they present themselves.

By the constitution of New Hampshire, *' every male
inhabitant, with town privileges, of twenty one years of
age, paying for himself a poll tax, has a fight to vote, in
the town or parish wherein he dwells, in the election of
rept esentatives." ^

In Massachussetts^ this right is, under the constitution,
tajoyed by ** every male person, being twenty one years
of age, and resident in any particular town in the com-
monwesdth for the space of one year next preceding,
having a freehold estate within the same town, of the
annual income of three pounds, or any estate of the value
of sixty pounds.'' Every one so qualified may " vote in
the choice of a representative for the said town." •

The right to choose representatives in JRhode Island
is vested in ^^the freemen of the respective towns or

9 Bac. on Gov. 34. r Cons. N. H. p. 11. 14/

* Con8.Ma8S.c 1.8. 3. a. 4.

V

134 LECfyRES ON LAW.

places." This regulaticm is specified in the charter of
Charles the second. The state of Rhode Island and
Providence Plantations has not assumed a form of go-
vernment different from that, which is contained in the
abovementioned charter.'

The qualifications requisite, in the state of Connecti-
cut, to entitle a person to vote at elections, are, maturitj'
in years, quiet and peaceable behaviour, a civil conversar
tion, and forty shillings freehold, or forty pounds personal
estate : if the selectmen of the town certify a person
qualified in those respects, he is admitted a freeman, on
his taking an oath of fidelity to the state. ^ ^

It ought to be observed, by the way, that this power
to admit persons to be freemen, or to exclude them from
being freemen, according to the sentiments which other*
entertain concerning their conversation and behaviour, i^
a power of a very extraordinary nature ; and is certainly
capable of being exercised for very extraordinary pur*
poses*

The constitution of New York Ordains, ^^ that everjr
male inhabitant of full age, who shall have personally
resided within one of the counties of the state, for six
months immediately preceding the day of election, shall,
at such election, be entitled to vote for representatives of
the said county in assembly ; if during the time aforeaai4
he shall have been a freeholder, possessing a freehold of
the value of twenty pounds, within the said county, or
have rented a tenement therein of the yearly value of

« Char.R,t p. 41.Sh ^ Cow. Con.p. 54.

LECTURES OK LAW. 135

forty shillings; and been rated and actually paid taxe^
to the state-'' ""

*' All inhabitants of New Jersey, of full age, who are
worth fifty pounds, proclamation money, clear estate
within that government, and have resided within the
county, in which they shall claim a vote, for twelve
months immediately preceding^he election, shall be enti-
tled to vote for representatives in assembly." ^

The right oi suffrage is not specified in the constitu-
tion of Delaware ; but it is provided, that, in the election
of members of the legislature, it ^^ shall remain as exer-
cised by law at present,"

In Maryland, " all freemen above twenty one years of
iige, h^ing a freehold of fifty acres of land in the county,
In which they offer to vote, and residing therein ; and all
freemen having property in the state above the value of
thirty pounds current money, and having resided in the
county, in which they offer to vote, one whole year next
preceding the election, shall have a right of suffrage in
the election of delegates for such county."''

We find, in the constitution of Virginia, no specifica-
tion of the right of suffrage : it is declared, however, that
diis right shall remain as it was exercised at the time
when that constitution was made. '

It is provided by the constitution of North Carolina,
'^ that all freemen of the age of twenty one years, who

▼ Cons. N. Y. c. 7. p. 5a ^ Cons. N. I. c 4. p. 70. 71.

X Cons. Del. c. 5. p. 95. y Coos. Mar. c 2^ p. 1<09«

* Cons. Vir. p. 136.

;[36 LECTURES ON LAW.

have been inhabitants of any county within the »tate
twelve months immediately preceding the day of any elec<»
tion, and shall have paid publick taxes, shall be entitled
to vote for members of the house of commons, for the
county in which they reside.'^ * '

According to the constitution of South Carolina^
*' every free white man, ^f the age of twenty one years,
being a citizen of the state, and having re&ided in it two
years previous to the day of election, and who has a free-
hold of fifty acres of land, or a town lot, of which he
hath been legally seized and possessed at least six months
before such election, or, not having such freehold or lot^
has resided within the election district, in which he
offers to give his vote, six months before the election,
and has, the preceding year, paid a tax of three shiUings
sterling towards the support of government, shall have a
right to vote for members of the house of representatives
for the election district, in which he holds such property^
or is so resident." ^

I am not possessed of the present constitution of
Georgia, By its late constituti(»i, it was provided,
that " all male white inhabitants, of the age of twenty
one years, and possessed, in their own rights of ten
)K>unds value, and liable to pay tax in the state, or beings
of any mecbanick trade, and shaU have been a resident
six months in the state, phalli have aright to vote at all
elections for ^ representatives," ^

a CcBS. N. C c 8. p. 134. b Cea5.S.C. art. 1. s. 4.

c Cons. Oeorg. c..9. p. 158.

^ ^keratkms ha^e been made by several of the 9katea ia their
constitutional provisions on this subject. .

LECTURES ON LAW. 137

From the foregoing Enumeration — its length and its
xainuteness will be justified by its importance — from the

«
According to the present constitution of Delaware, " every white
freeman of the age of twenty one years, having resided in the state
two years next before the electionj and within that time paid a state
or county tax, which shall have been assessed at least six months
before the* election, shall enjoy the right of an elector." Art*
4. 8. L. ' • /

By an amendment of the constitution of Maryland, confirmed in
the year one thousand eight hundred and two, it is provided
that every free white male citizen of the stale, and no other, above
twenty one years of age, having resided twelve months nest prece-
ding the election in the city or county at which he offers to vote,
shall have a right of suffrage. ConstitutioBS, p. IT4. >

The present constitution of Oeorgia'directs that the electors of
members of the general assembly sh^ll be citizens and inhabitants of
the state, and shall have attained the age of twenty one years, and
have paid all publick taxes which may have been required of them,
and which they have had an opportunity of paying agreeably to law,
for the year preceding the election, and shall have resided six
months within the county. Art. 4. s. 1.

In order to complete the view taken of this subject in the text) x
it will be proper to state the provisions made by the constitutions
of the new states admitted into the Union respecting the qualifica-
tions of electors.

In Vermont, " every man of the full age of twenty one years,
having resided in the state for the space of one whole year next
before the election of representatives, and who is of a quiet and
peaceable behaviour, and will take the following oath. or affirma-
tion, shall be entitled to all the privileges of the state. — < You do ,
solemnly swear (or aflBrm) that whenever you give your vote or
suffrage, touching any matter that concerns the state of Vermont,
yon will do it so as in your conscience you shall judge will most con-

VOL. II. T

ISfii LECTURES ©N LAW. ,

foregoing enumeration of the provisions, which have
been made, in the Several states, concerning the right
of suffrage, we are weU warranted, I think, in drawing
this broad and general inference — that, in the United
States, this right is extended to every freeman, who
by his residence, has given evidence of his attachment
to. the country, who, by having property, of by being
in a situation to acquire property, possesses a coiAmou
interest with his fellow citizens ; and who is not in such
\incomfortable circumsta^nces, as to render him neces-
sarily dependent, for his subsistence, on the will of
others.

duce to th€ best good of the same, as established by the constitu-
tioD, without fear or favour of any maa." Cons. Ch. 2. s. 21.

By the constitation of Tennessee, every freeman of the age^
of twenty one years and upwards, possessing a freehold in the
county wherein he may vote, and being an inhabitant of the state,
and every freeman, being an inhabitant of any one county in ^e state
six months immediately preceding the day of election, shall be enti*
tied to vote for members of the gensral assembly, for the county in,
which he shall reade. Art. S. s. 1.

The constitution of Kentucky provides, that in all elections for
representatives, every free male atizen (negroes, mulattoes, and
Indians excepted) who at the time being hath attained to the age o£
twenty one years, aad resided in the state two years, and the.
county or town in which he offers to vote one year next preceding
the election, shall enjoy the right of an elector. Art. 2. s. 8.

In the state of Ohid, the rights of electors are enjoyed by all

white male inhabitants above the age of twenty one years, having

" resided in the state one year next preceding the election, and who

have paid or are charged with a state or county tax. Cons. Art. 4-

s.1. Ed.

LECTURES ON I«AW. 139

By the same enumeration, we are enabled, with con-
scious pleasure, to view and to display the close approxi-
mation, which, on this great subject, the constitutions of
the American States have made, to what we have
already seen to be the true principles and the correct
theory of freedom.

Again; the same enumeration places in the strongest
and most striking light, the wisdom and the generous
confidence, which rested one of the principal pillars of
the national government upon the foundation prepared
for it by the governments of the several states.

With this sentiment I began — with this sentiinent I
conclude my remarks concerning the qualifications
required from those, who elect the house of representa-
tives of the United States.

We now proceed to examine the qualifications requi-
red from those, who are elected to that dignified trust.

1. A representative must have attained the age of
twenty five years. *

It is amusing enough to consider the different ages,
at which persons have been deemed qualified or disqua*
lified for different purposes, both in private and in publick
life.

A woman, as we learn from my Lord Coke and others,
has seven ages for several purposes appointed to her by
the law. At seven years of age, her father, if a feudal
superiour^ was entitled to demand from his vassals an

« J

I
I

• Cons. U.S. art 1. s.2.

140 LECTCILES ON LAW,

aid to marry her: at nine, she may have dower: at
twelve, §he may consent to marriage : at fourteen, she
may choose a guardian : at sixteen, marriage might be
tendered to her by her lord : at seventeen, she may act as
executrix: at twenty one, she may alienate her landsf^
and goods. ^ A man, also, has different ages assigned .
to him for different purposes. At twelve, years of age,
he was formerly obliged to take the oath of allegiance :
at fourteen, he can consent to marriage : at the same
age he can choose his guardian : at twenty one, he may
convey his personal and real esta):e. ^ . •

The .foregoing are the different ages allowed for dif-
ferent purposes in private life. In publick life, there has,
with regard to age, been a similar variety of assignments ;
the reasons of some of which it is hard ta conjecture ;
for the propriety of others, it is equally hard to account*

In the government of the United States, it is sup-
posed, that no one is fit to be a member of the house
of representatives, till he is twenty five years of age ; to
be a senator, till he is thirty ;** to be a prei»dent, till he
is thirty five. *

The duration assigned by nature to human life is
often complained of as very short ; that assigned to it
by some politicians is much shorter. For some political
purposes, a man cannot breathe before he numbers
thirty five years : as to other political purposes, his
breath is extinguished the moment he reaches sixty.
By the constitution of New York, J " the chancellor, the .
judges of the supreme court, and the first judge of

f 1. Ins. T8, b. s Id. ibid.

> Cons. U. S. art. 1. s. 3. ' Id art 2. s, 1. 3 C. 24. p. 63.

L£CTUR£S ON LAW. 141

the county court in every county, hold their offices —
until they shall respectively have attained the age of sixty
years."

How differently is the same object viewed at different
times and in different countries ! In New York, a man is
deemed uniit for the first offices of the state ofter he is
sixty : in Sparta, a man was deemed unfit for the first
offices of the state till he was sixty. Till that age, no
one was entitled to a. seat in the senate, the highest ho-
nour of the chiefs.^ How convenient it would be, if a
politician possessed the power, so finely exercised by the
most beautiful of poets ! Virgil could, with the greatest
ease imaginable, bring iEricas and Dido together; though,
in fact, some centuries elapsed between the times, in
. which they lived. Why cannot some politician, by the
same or some similar enchanting art, produce an ancient
and a modern government as cotemporaries ? The effect
would be admirable. The moment that a gentleman of
sixty would be disqualified from retaining his seat as a
judge of New York, he would be qualified for taking
Ills seat as a senator of Sparta.

.2. Before one can be a representative, he must have
been seven years a citizen of the United States. ^

Two reasons may be assigned for this provision.
1. That the constituents might have a full and mature
opportunity of knowing the. character and merit of their
representative. 2. That the representative might have a
full and mature opportunity of knowing the dispositions
and interests of his constituents.

* 1. Gil. c. 3. p. 107. 8. War. Bib. 29.
> Ci^DS. U. S. ai*t 1. s. %

142 LECTURES OK LAW.

3. The representative must, when elected, be an in-
habitant of that state, in which he is chosen. "*

The qualification of residence we have found to be
universally insisted on with regard to those who elect :
here the same qualiiication is insisted on with regard
to those who are elected. The same reasons, which
operated in favour of the former qualification!, operate
with equal, indeed, with greater force, in favour of this.
A provision, almost literally the same with the present
one, was made in England three centuries and a half
ago. By a statute made in the first year of Henry the
fifth, it was enacted, that ^' the knights of the shires,
which from henceforth«hall be chosen in every shire, be
not chosen, unless they be resident within the shire
where they shall be chosen, the day of the date of the
writ^f the summons of the parliament"—" And more*
over it is ordained and established, that the citizens and
burgesses of the cities and boroughs be chosen men, citi-
zens and burgesses, resiant, dwelling, and free in the
saihe cities and boroughs, and no other in any wise."^
To this moment, this statute continues unrepealed--a
melancholy proof, how far degenerate and corrupted man-
ners will overpower the wisest and most wholesome
laws. From Sir Bulstrode. Whitlocke we learn, that,
above a century ago, noncompliance with this statute
was " connived at." ° The statute itself has been long
and openly disregarded. The consequences of this dis-
regard may be seen in the present state of the represen*
tation in England.

«Cons.U. S. art. 1. s. 2. » St 1. Hen. 5. c 1. Bar. 38a

- o l.WhitL496.

LECTURES ON LAW. 143

Thus far concerning the election of the house of re-
presentatives, and the qualifications of the members and
of the electors. It remains to speak concerning the elec-
tion and the qualifications of the senators.

The senators are chosen by the legislatures of the
several states. Every senator must have attained to the
age of thirty years ; he must have been nine years a citi-
tzen of the United States ; and he must, when elected,
be an inhahitant of that state, for which he shall be
chosen, p

Some have considered the senators as immediately
representing the sovereignty, while the members of the
other house immediately represent the people, of the
several states. This opinion is founded on a doctrine
which I considered and, I believe, refuted very fully
in a former lecture :<i the doctrine is this— that the legis*
lative power is the supreme power of the state. The
supreme power I showed to reside in the people.

By the constitution of the United States, the people
have delegated to the several legislatures the choice of
senators, while they have retained in their own hands
the choice of representatives. It would be unwise,
however, to infer from this, that either the dignity or
the importance of the seni^te is inferiour to the dignity or
the importance of the house of representatives. One
may intrust to another the management of an equal or
even superiour business, while he chooses to transact
personally a business of an equal or even an inferiour
kind.

f Cons. U. S. «rt. 1. s. 3. ^ Ante. vol. 1. ch. 5.

144 LECTURES ON LAW*

Between the senate of the United States^ and that of
Pennsylvania, there is one remarkable point of difference,
of which it will be proper, in this place, to take parti-
cular notice. According to the constitution of the United
States, two senators afe chosen by the legislature of each
state: while the members of the house of representatives
are chosen by the people^ According to the constitution
of Pennsylvania, ^ the senators are chosen by the citizens
of the state, at the same time, in the same manner, and
at the same place where they shall yote for representa-
tives.

To choose the senators by the same persons, by wham
the members of the house of representatives are chosen,
is, we are told, to lose the material distinction, and, con-
sequently, all the benefits which would result from the
material distinction, between the two branches of the
legislature.

If this, indeed, should be the necessary consequence
of electing both branches by the same persons ; the ob-
jection, it is confessed, would operate with a force ir-
resistible. But many and strong reasons, we think, may
be assigned, why all the advantages, to be expected
from two branches of a legislature, may be gained and
preserved, though those two branches derive their au-
thority from precisely the same source.

A point of honour will arise between them. The
esprit du corps will soon be introduced. The principle,
and direction, and aim of this spirit will, we presume,
be of the best and purest kind in the two houses. They

r Art 1.8,5.

l/SCTVRES ON LAW. 145

frill be rivals in duty, rivals in fame, rivals for the good
l^aces of their common constituents.

£ach house wiU be cautious, and careful, and circum-
spect, in those proceedings, which, they know, must un«
dergo the strict and severe criticism of judges, whose
inclination will lead them, and whose duty will enjoin
them, not to leave a single blemish unnoticed or uncor*
rected. After all the caution, all the care, and all the
circumspection, which can be employed, strict and se-
vere criticism, led by inclination and enjoined by duty^
will find something to notice and correct. Hence a dou-
ble source of information, precision, and sagacity in
planning, digesting, composing, comparing, and finish-
ing the laws, both in form and substance. Every biU
-will, in some one or more steps of its progress, undergo
the keenest scrutiny. Its relations, whether near or more
remote, to the principles of freedom, jurisprudence, and
the constitution will be accurately examined : and its
effects upon the laws already existing will be maturely
traced. In this manner, rash measures, violent innova*
tions, crude projects, and partial contrivances will be
stifled in the attempt to bring them forth. These effects
of mutual watchfulness and mutual control between
the two houses, will redound to the honour of each, and
to the security and advantage of the state.

The very circumstance of sitting in separate houses
will be the cause of emulous and active separate exer*
tion. The era, when the commons of England met in
an apartment by themselves, is, with reason, considered,
by many writers, as a memorable era in the history of
English liberty. ^^ After the formation of the two housef
vol; II. u
LECTURES ON LAW.

of paiitament,'' says Mr. Millar, in his historical view
of the English constitution/ ^^ each of them came to be
possessed of certain peculiar privileges ; which, although
probably the objects of little attention in the begimiingy
have since risen to great political importance. The house-
of commons obtained the sole power of bringing in money
bills." This subject will, by and by, come under our
mbire immediate view.

Rivals for character, as we have seen the two houses
to be, they will be rivals in all pursuits, by which cha«
racter can be acquired, established, and exalted. To
these laudable pursuits the crown of success will best be
obtained, by vigour and alacrity in the discharge of the
business committed to their care.

A difference in the posts assigned to the two houses^
and in the number and duration of their members, will
produce a diiFerence in their sense of the duties required
and expected from them. The house of representatives^
for instance, form the grand inquest of the state. They
will diligently inquire into grievances, arising both from
men and things. Their commissions will commence or
be renewed at short distances of time. Their sentiments^
and views, and wishes, and even their passions, will have
received a deep and recent tincture from the sentiments,
and views, and wishes, and passions of their constituents.
Into their counsels, and resolutions, and measures, this
tincture will be strongly transfused. They will know the
evils which exist, and the means of removing them : they
will know the advantages already discovered, aud the
means of increasing them. As the term of their com-

• P.596<4to.)

tECtURES ON LAW. 14T

mission and trust will soon expire, they will be desirous,
while it lasts, of seeing the publick business put, at least,
in a train of accomplishment. From all these causes, a
sufficient number of overtures and propositions will origi*
na^e in the house of representatives. These overtures
and propositions will come, in their proper course, before
the senate. Those, which shall appear premature, will
be postponed till a more convenient season. Those^
which shall appear crude, will be properly digested and
formed^i Those, which shall appear to be calculated upon
•too narrow a scale, will be enlarged in their operation
and extent. Those, which shall appear to be dictated by
local views, inconsistent with the general welfare, will be
either rejected altogether, or altered in such a manner,
as that the interest of the whole shall not be sacrificed,
or rendered subservient, to the interest of a part.

Articles of information, detached and seemingly un-
connected, introduced by the house of representatives;
at different timies, from different places, with different
motives, and for different purposes, will, in the senate,
he collected, compared, methodised, and consolidated.
Under their plastick hands, those materials will be em-
ployed in forming systems and laws, for the prosperity
and happiness of the commonwealth.

If, at anytime, the passions or prejudices of the people
should be ill directed or too strong ; and the house of
representatives should meet, too highly charged with the
transfusion ; it will be the business and the duty of the
senate to allay the fervour ; and, before it shall give a
sanction to the bills or resolutions of the other house, to
introduce into them the requisite ingredients of mildness
and moderation.

148 LECTtltSS on IiAW.

Extremes,. on one hand, are often the fiM*ehintta9 wt
extremes on the other. If a benumbing torpor should
appear in the body politick, after the effects of yioleot
convulsions have subsided ; and if the contagious apiitbj
should spread itself over the house of representatives ; 'ut
will then become the business and the duty of the senat^^
to infuse into the publick councils and publick measures
the proper portion of life, activity, and vigour.

In seasons of prosperity, it will become the care of the
senate to temper the extravagance, or repress the ins^
lence, of publick joy. In seasons of adversity, the senate
WiU be employed in administering comfort and cure tir
the publick despondency*

In fine ; the senate will consider itself, and will be
considered. by the people, as the balance whedinthe
great machine of government ; calculated and designed
to retard its movements, when they shall be too raptd^
and to accelerate them, when they shall be too alow.

These reflections, which seem to arise naturally frona
the subject before us, will, we hope, be sufficient to coop-
vince you, that the most beneficial purposes may be ration*
ally expected from the senate of Pennsylvania, though
the senators, as well as the members of the house of
representatives, be elected immediately by the citizens of
the commonwealth.

Another circumstance, not yet mentioned, deservMi
to be added to this account. The districts for the electitn^
of senators, are to be formed by the legislature. In
forming those districts, the legislature are empowered
to include in them such a number of taxable inhi^itanti

LECTURES OK lAW. 140

aft thaU be entitled to elect four senators. ' An enlarged
and judicious exercise of this power will have a strong
tendency to increase the dignity and usefulness of the
Hsenate* It may, I believe, be assumed as a general
maxim, of no small importance in democratical govern-
m^its, that the more extensive the district of election
is, the choice will be the more wise and enlightened.
Intrigue and cunning are the bane of elections by the
people, who are unsuspicious, because they are undesign-
ing: but intrigue and cunning are most dangerous, be-
>cause they are most successful, in a contracted sphere.

IL I am now to consider the number of members of
which the legislature of the United States consists.

The representatives are apportioned amongthe several
states according ta their numbers. The number of repre-
sentatives shall not exceed one for every thirty thousand. *
.The senate shall be composed of two senators from each
^ *tate. ^

The Union consists now of fourteen, and will soon
consist of fifteen states. Of consequence, the senate is
composed now of twenty eight, and will be composed
soon of thirty members.

A census of the United States has been taken, agree-
ably to the constitution, and the returns of that census
are nearly completed. By these it appears, that, allow-
»g one representative for every thirty thousand returned

•

t Cons. Peon, art 1. s. 7* <^ Cons. U. S. art 1. s. 2;.
Y I^ art 1. s. ^

1^0 JLeCTURES OJff LAW*

on the census, the house of repreaentiaitives will consist of
one hundred and twelve members. ^

Every one has heard of the saying of the famous Car*
dinal de Retz-— -that evjery publick assembly, consistiBg^
of more than one hundred members, was a mere mob*
It is not improbable, that the Cardinal drew, his conclu^
sion from what he had seen and e3q)erie]i£ed. He lived
in a turbulent season ; and, in that turbulent season, wast
distinguished as a most turbulent actor. Of consequence^
he was much conversant with mere mobs. But surely
no good reason can be given, why the numbef one hun-
dred should form the precise boundary, on one side of
which, order may be preserved, and on the other side ^of
which, confusion must unavoidably prevail. The politic*
cal qualities of publick bodies, it is, in all likeUhood, im*
possible to ascertain and distinguish widi such numerical
exactness. Besides ; the publick bodies, most celebrated

V After the census mentioned in the text, the representative^
t^ere apportioned among the states, by an act of congress passed on
the fourteenih day of April, 1792, agreeably to a ratio of one member
fer every thirty three thousand persons in each state, computed ac-
tsording to the rule prescribed by the constitution. The number of
representatives, agreeably to that ratio, amounted to (me handled
and five.

A second enumeration was made in the year oiie tliousand
eight hundred ; and the representatives were, by an act of congress
passsd on the fourteenth day of January, 1803, apporticnied among
the states agreeably to the same ratio. Thmr number amounted ti>
one hundred and forty one. The state of Ohia has since been ad*
mitted into the Union, and is entitled to one member. This last
apportionment is stiU in force.

The senate of the tJnited States, at present, consists of thirfy fbitir'
members. Ed.

LSCTURE6 ON LAW. 151

for the decency and dignity, as well as for the importance,
of their proceeding, have far exceeded, in number, the
bounds prescribed by the Cardinal for the existence of
liiose respectable Qualities : witness the senate of Rome^
and the parliament of Great Britain.

There is, however, with regard to this point, an ex-
treme on one hand, as well as on the other. The num-
ber of a deliberative body may be too great, as well as too
small. In a great and a growing country, no precis^
number could, with propriety, be fixed by the constitu-
tion. A power, in some measure discretionary, was,
therefore, necessarily given to the legislature, to direct
tbat number from time to time« If the spirit of the con-
atttuticm be observed in other particulars, it will not be
▼iolatedin this.

' III. I proceed, in the third place, to treat of the term,for
Hrhich the members of the national legislature are chosen*

In the greatest part of the states, the members of the
most numerous branch of their legislature are chosen an-
nually ; in some, every half year. The members of the
least numerous branch are generally chosen for a longer
term. - By the constitution of the United States, ^ the
members of the house of representatives are chosen
** every second year."

When we consider the nature and the extent of ,the
general government, we shall be satisfied, I apprehend,
that biennial elections are as well proportioned to it, as
annual elections are proportioned to the individual, states,
^nd half yearly elections to some of the smallest of them.

» Art 1. s. 2.

158 LECTUREl^ ON LAW.

The senators of the United States are chosen for six
years ; but are so classed, that the seats of one third part
of them are vacated at the expiration of every aecend
year ; so that one third part may be chosen every second
year. ^

In Pennsylvania, the senators are chosen for four years ;
but are so classed, that the seats of one fourth part of them
are vacated at the expiration of every year ; so that oneT
fourth part may be chosen every yean "

The intention, in assigning different limitatioiis to the
terms, for which the members of the different houses are
chosen, and in establishing a rotation in the senate, ia
obviously to obtain and secure the different qualities, by
which a legislature ought to be distinguished. These
qualities are, stability, consistency, and minute informa-
tion. All these qualities may be expected, in sOBfte degree,
from each house ; but not in equal proportions. Po9
ipinute information, the principal reliance will be placed
on the house of representatives ; because that house is
the most numerous ; and because its members are most
frequently chosen. The qualities of stability and con*
sistency will be expected chiefly from the senate ; because
the senators continue longer in oflice ; and because only
a part of them can be changed at any one time.

IV. I proceed to treat concerning the laws, and rules^
and powers of the two houses of congress.

The parliament of Great Britain has Its peculiar law;
a law, says my Lord Coke, ^ with which few are ac({iiasiii^

r Cons. U. & art 1 9. 3. > Coos. Fenn. art L s. jT. 9.

"^ 1. Ins. 11 b.

r

LECTURES ON LAW. 153

td, but which deserves to be investigated by all. The
maxims, however, upon which the parliament proceeds,
are not, it seems, defined and ascertained by any parti-
cular stated law : they rest entirely in the breast of the
parliament itself. The dignity and independence of
the two houses, we are told, are preserved, in a great
measure, by keeping their privileges indefinite. ^

Very different is the case with regard to the legisla-
ture of the United States, and to that of Pennsylvania.
The great maxims, upon which our law pf parliament is
founded, are defined and ascertained in our consti-
tutions. The arcana of privilege, and the arcana of
prerogative, are equally unknown to our system of
jurisprudence*

By the constitution of the United States,^ each house
of the legislature shall be the judge of the qualifications
apd returns, and also of the elections, of its own mem-
bers. By the constitution of Pennsylvania, ** each house
shall judge of' the qualifications of its members : but
contested elections shall be determined by a committee
to be selected, formed, and regulated in such manner as
shall be directed by law. With - regard to this subject,
the constitution of Pennsylvania has, I think, improved
upon that of the United States. Contested elections,
when- agitated in the house itself, occasion much waste
of time, and, too often, a considerable degree of ani-
mosity among the members. These inconveniences
will be, in a g^eat measure, avoided by the proceedings
and decision of a committee, directed and governed by
a standing law.

ii 1. Bl Com. 163. 164. c Art. 1. s. 5. d Art. 1. s. %%

VOL. II, X

It is proper, in this place, to take liotitft, thit tlie
house of representative^ in congress have appointed a
standing committee of elections. It is the duty of thf i
committee, to examine the certificates of ^eetioft, c^
other credentials of the members returned ; to tAtitM
their consideration evety thing referred to thefm eoh^efn^
ing returns and elections ; and to report their Opinions
and proceedings to the house.*

In the United States and in Pennsylvania*, thd legi«*
lature has a right to sit upon its owti adjournments : but
neither house shall, without the consent of tbe other,
adjourn for more thandiree days, nor to any other placef
than thsit in ii^hich the two houses shall be sitting*^ Itl
England, the sole right of convening, prorbgutng^ and
dissolving th^ parliament forms a part, and, obviously,
a very important part, of the prerogative of the king. ^
Here we discover, in our new constitutions, another
, renovation of the old Saxon customs. I'he orig^id
meetings of the wittenagemote in England were held
regularly at two seasons of the year; at the end of sprinj^,
^nd at the beginning of autumn.^ Afterwards there
came to be two sorts of wittenagemote ; one held by
custom, and at the stated periods; die other called
occasionally, ' and by a special summons from the king.

e Jour. Rep. ISth April, 1789.
^ Cons. XJ. S^ art h s. 5. Cons. Penn. art 1. s. 16.

*

V I. BL Com. IBT. 1,86. ^ Bac <Mi Gov. S6. WBatt. 146. 34S.

^ A similar distincUon between stated and occasional assemblies
was observed by the Athenians. The times of the former were
appointed by law: the latter were sunmoned by those at the

.LECTURES OH LAW. 1^5

Under the princes of the Norman and Plantqgenet
lines, the ancient apd regular meetings of the national
.legislature were more and more disregarded. The
consequence was, that, in progress of time, the whole
4»£ the piirli^inentary buainesa wais transacted in extraor-
cUqary Qieqtings, which were called at the pleasure of
tJ9^ sovereign J PrincipUa ob^fa* In consequence of
squiring the power to call the parliament together, that
of putting a negative upon its meetings, ^n other words,
of proroguing or dissolving it| was, in all cases, vested
in the crown* ^

The institution of the United States provides, > that
the s^iJitars and representatives shall, in. all cases, except
treason, felony, and breach of the peace, be privileged
from arrest during their attendance at the session of their
respective houses, and in going to and returning from
l^m. The constitution of Pennsylvania"^ contains a simi-
lar provi^cm, excepting in one particular. The mem-,
bers are no^ entitled to privilege, if their conduct has
been such, as to give reasonable cause of fear that they
will break tho^peace ; in the same manner as they are not
entitled to it, if, by their conduct, the peace has been
actually broken. This necessary privilege has continued
mdstantiaUy the same, since the time of the Saxons.
The grand assembly of the wittenagemote, as we are
toM by Mr. Selden, was bolden sacred; and all the
members were under the publick faith, both in going
and coming, unless the ^^xrty vrcxt fur firobatus. This

head of the civil or of the military department «f the government ;
^8 emergencies in those different depaitments arose. 1. Pot Ant
91. 92.

j Millar. 343. 344^ ^14 311. iAit.l.s.6. mArtl.s.ir.

156 LECTURES OK LAW.

privilege of safe pass, being thus ancient and fcinda-
mental, and not by any law taken away, resteth still in
force. "

The members of the national legislature, and those
also of the legislature of Pennsylvania, shall not, for any
speech or debate in either house, be questioned in any
other place. ^ In England, the freedom of speech is,
at the opening of every new parliament, particularly;
demanded of the king ^ in person, by the speaker of the
house of commons. ^ The liberal provision, which is
made, by our constitutions, upon this subject, may be
justly viewed as a very considerable improvement in the
science and the practice of government* In order to ena-
ble and encourage a representative of the pabUck to dis-
charge his publick trust with finnness and success, it is
indispensably necessary, that he should enjoy the fullest
liberty of speech, and that he should be protected
from 'the resentment of every one, however powerful,
to wjiom the exercise of that liberty may occasion
offence*

*
When it i^ mentioned, that the meimbers sh|ill not
be questioned in any other place ; the impli^tion is
strong, that, for their speeches in either house, they
may be questioned and censured by that house, in which
they are spoken. Besides; each house. Both in the
United States and in Pennsylvania, has an express power
given it^ to *'*' punish its members for disorderly beha-

» Bacon Gov. dfi.

* Cons. U. S. art. 1. s. 6. Cons. Pena art 1. & XT.

? l.]n.Cpin.lH

LECTURES ON LAW.

15?

viour."*' Under the protection of privilege, to use
indecency or licentiousness of language; in the course of
debate, is disorderly behaviour, of a kind peculiarly base
and ungentlemanly.

«

Each house niay not only punish, but, with the con-
currence of two thirds, it may expel a member. ' This
regulation is adopted by the constitution of Pennsyl-
vania : • " but," it is added, " not a second time f6r the
9ame cause." The reason for the addition evidently is
— that the member, who has offended, cannot be an
object of a second expulsion, unless, since the offence
giyen arid punished by the first expulsion, he has been
cither reelected by his former constituents, or elected by
others. In both cases, his election is a proof, that, ih
the opinion of his constituents, he either has not offended
at all, or has been already sufficiently punished for his
offence. The language of each opinion is, that he
ought not to be expelled again : and the language of
the constituents is a law to the house.

Each house may determine the rules of ^ts proceed-*
ings. This power is given, in precisely the same terms,
by the constitution of the United States, and by that
of Pennsylvania. ' Its propriety is selfevidenf.

The constitution of the United States directs, « that
each house shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and^

4 C(Mi. U. S. art. 1. 8. 5. Cons. Penn. art. 1. s. 23.

' Cons. U. S. art 1. s. 5.

% Art, 1. s. 13.

' Cons. U. S. art 1. s. 5. Cons. Penn. art 1. s. 13.
« Art. 1. s. 5.

15^ LECTURES ON lAW.

•

from time to time, publish them, except such parl^ m
may require secrecy: it directs further, that the yeas
and nays of the members of either house, on any qiies*
tion, shall, at the desire of one fifth of those preseat, ht
entered on the journal. The constitution of Pennsyl-
vania^ goes still further Upon these points: it directs,
that the journals shall be pubfished weekly ; that the
yeas and nays shall be entered on them^ at the desire
of ^any two member's ; and that the doors of each
house, and of committees of the whole, shdQ be op^
unless when the business shall be such as ought to be
kept secret.

That the conduct and proceedings of representatives
should be ^s open as possible to the inspection of dKMie
whom they represent, seems to be, in republican go«
vemment, a maxim, of whose trudi or impoHance the
smallest doubt cannot be entertained. That, by aiieces*
aary consequence, every measure, which will facilitajte
or secure this open communication of the exeretae of
delegated power, should be adopted and patronised by
the conBtitution and laws a£ every free state, seems to be
another maxim, which is the unavoidaUe result of idke
former. For these reasons, I feel myself necessarily
and unavoidably led to consider the additional regulations
made, upon this subject, by the constitution of Pennsyl-
v^ia, as improvements upon those made by the consti-
tution of the United States. The regulation'--«tbat tke
doors of each house, and of committees of the whole, shall
be open-— I view as an improvement highly beneficial both
in its nature and in its consequences— both to the repre-
sentatives and to their constituents. ^^ In the house of com-

^ Art. 1. 8. 14, 15.

LECTURES ON LAW.

1^9

mo&s,'' sajrs Sir William Blackstone, *^ the conduct of
ever)' member is 9ubject to the future ciensure of his
constituents, and therefore should be openly submitted
to theirinspection.'' ^ But I forbear to enter more large-
ly into this interesting topick.

The house of representatives in congress shall choose
their speaker and other officers. " The like provision is
made by the constitution of Pennsylvania, ^ with respect
to both houses of the general assembly.

The speaker of the house of commons cannot giv^
his opinion, nor can he argue any j[uestion in the house.*
From this view of the matter, one would be apt to ima-
gine, that SIS the Latins assigned to a grove the namex)f
htcus^ a non lucendo^ so the English distinguished the
first officer of the house of commons by the appellation
of speaker, because, by the rules of that house, he could
say neither yes nor no. But if we trace things to their
origin, we shall be led to discover the reason of this
denomination.

The first mode of passing a bill through parliament
was by a petition to the king. This petition represented
the grievance or inconvenience, concerning which com-
plaint was made, and requested that it should be removed.
"When a petition was offered by the commons, after they
sat in a separate house, it was necessary to appoint some
person to intimate their views and wishes to the king.
'This person, chosen by themselves, and approved by the
king, whom they would not address by the mouth of a

^l.BLCom.l81.
3^ Art 1.8. 11.

X Cons. U.S. Art t s. 3.
■ t BL Com. 181.

160 LEGTUREf ON LAW.

person disagreeable to him, was denominated their
speaker^

To discharge this part of his duty in the dignified,
and, at the same time, in the respectful manner, in which
it ought to be discharged, was frequently considered as
a busines3 of a very arduous nature. It will not be un-
entertaining, to learn, from one of the speakers of the
house of commons, the qualities, which, in his opinion,
were necessary for the proper performance of the speak-
er's office.

*' Whence," said Serjeant Yelvertoh, ^' your unex-
pected choice of me to be your mouth or speaker should
proceed, I am utterly ignorant. Neither from my per-
son nor nature df>th this choice arise : for he that supplieth
this place ought to be a man big and comely, stately and
well spoken, his voice great, his carriage majestical, his
nature haughty. But, contrarily, the stature of mybody
is small, myself not so well spoken, my voice low, my
carriage lawyerlike and of the common fashion, my
nature soft and bashful. If Demosthenes, being so
learned and so eloquent as he was, trembled to speak be-
^fore Phocion at Athens ; how much piore shall I, being
unlearned and unskilful, supply this place of dignity, to
speak before the unspeakable majesty and sacred per-
sonage of our dread and dear sovereign, the terrour of
whose countenance" (he speaks of Queen Elizabeth)
V will appal and abase even the stoutest heart."

All bills for reusing revenue shall originate in the house
of representatives ; but the senate may propose amend-

> Millar 414. ^ 4. Pari. Hist 411, 412. .

LECTURES ON LAW* 161

metits as in other bills. This provision is common to
the United States and Pennsylvania. ^

In a former lecture, d this subject was considered
under one aspect, under which it then made its appear-
ance. It now claims consideration in other respects t
and ought to be examined with a greater degree of mi-
nuteness. * s

In England, all grants of ^ids by parliament begin in
the houae of commons. Of that house, this is an an<?
cient,^ and, now, an indisputable privilege. With re?
gard to it, the commons are so jealous, that, over money
bills, they will not suffer the other house to exert any
powers, except.simply those of concurrence or rejection*
From the lords, no alteration or amendment will be re-
ceived on this delicate subject. The constitutions of the
United States smd Pennsylvania have, on this head,
adopted the parliamentary law of England in part ; but
they have not adopted it altogether. They have directed,
that money bills shall originate in the house of represent*
tatives; but they have directed also, that the senate
may propose amendments in these, as well as in other
bilk* It will be proper to investigate the reasons of each
part of the direction. This will best be done by tracing
the matter historically, and attending to the difference
between the institution of the house of lorcls in England^
and that of. the senates of the United States and Penn-
sylvania.

During a considerable time after the establishment of
the house of commons as a separate branch of the legist

^ Cons. U. S. art. 1. s. 7. Cons. Peim. art 1. s. 30.

^ Ante Vol 1. p. 445. ' *4.Ing,39.
VOL. IJ. Y

,162 LECTUl^ES ON XAW.

i

lature, it appears, that the members of that house were^
with regard to taxes and assessments, governed alto-
gether by the instructions, which they received from
their constituents. Each county and borough seems to
have directed its representatives, concerning the amount
of the rates to which they might give their assent. By-
adding together the sums contained in those parti-
cular directions, it was easy to ascertain, in the house
of commons, the sum total, which the commonalty of
the kingdom were willing to grant. To the extent of
this sum, the commons conceived themselves empowered
and directed to go; but no farther.

According to this mode of proceeding, the imposi-
tion of taxes produced no interchange of communieattoa
between the two houses of parliament. To introdiice
a money bill, or an amendment to a money ImQ, into the
house of lords—to deliberate upon the bill or amend-
ment in that house-rafter agreeing to it there, to submit
it to the deliberation of the house of commons--^-^ &is
would have been perfectly nugatory. Let us suppose,
that the bill or amendment had undergone the most full
and careful examination in the house of lords, who, att*-
ing only for themselves, could examine it under eveiy
aspect, unfettered by exteriour direction and control;
let us suppose it then transmitted to the house of com-
mons, for their concurrence : what could the house jof
commons do? They could not deliberate upon the bill
or the amendment: they could only compare^ it with
their instructions : if they found it consistent with them,
they could give, if inconsistent, they must refbse, their
consent. The only course, therefore, in which this
-business could be transacted, was, that the commons
fejiould begin by mentioning the sum, which they were

LECTUHES ON LAW. 163

empowered to grant, and that what they proposed should
be sent to the house of lords, who, upon all the circum-
stances^ might deliberate and judge for themselves. ^

•

In this manner, and for these reasons, the house of
commons became possessed of this important privilege,
which is now justly regarded by them, as one of the
strongest pillars of their freedom and power. Once pos-
sessed of this privilege, they w^re far*from relinquishing
it, wjtken the first reasons for its possession had ceased.
Other reasons, stronger than the first, succeeded to them«
In the flux of time and things, the revenue and influ*
ence of the crown became so great, and the property
of th^ peerage, considered with relation to the general
property of the kingdom, became comparatively so small,
that it was judged unwise to permit that body to model,
or ev^n to alter^ the general system of taxation. This
is the aspect, under which this subject was viewed in the
lecture, to which I have alluded ; and I will not repeat^
now, what was observed then.

From, this short historical deduction, it appears, that
the provision, which we now consider, is far from being
so important here, as it is in England. In the United
States and in Pennsylvania, both houses of the legislature
draw ..their authority, either immediately, or, at least,
not remotelv, fi-om the same common fountain. In En^
gland, one of the . houses acts entirely in its private
and separate right.

But though this regulation is by no means so necessary
here, as. it is in^ England ; yet it may have its use, so^ far

f Millar. 398.

164 Z.ECTU&2S ON LAW.

as it has been adopted into our constitutions. Our housea
of representatives are much more numerous than our
senates : the members of the former are chosen much
more frequently, than arcf the members of the latter.
For these reasons, an information more local and Qiinute .
may be expected m the houses of representatives, than
can be expected in the senates. This minute and local
information will be of service, in suggesting and in col*
lecting materials for the laws of revenue. After those
materials are collected and prepared, the wisdom and
the patriotism of both houses will be employed inform*^
ing them into a proper system*

The house of representatives shall have the sole pow^
er of impeaching. All impeachments shall.be tried by
the senate. These regulations are found both in the
constitution of the United States^ and in ^atof P^iii«
sylvania.^

The doctrine of impeachments is of high import in
the constitutions of free states. On one hand, the most
powerful magistrates should be amenable to the law : on
the other hand, elevated characters, should not be sacai«
iiced merely on account of their elevation. No one
should be secure while he violates the constitution and
the laws : every one should be secure while he observes
them*

Impeachments were known in Athens. They
prosecuted for great and publick offences, by which the
commonwealth was brought into danger. They were
not referred to any court of justice, but were prosecuted

« Art. 1. 8. 3, 3. hArt4. s.1.3.

^ LECTURES ON LAW. 16^

before the popular assembly, or before the senate of five
hundred* ^

Among the ancient Germans also, we discover the
traces of impeachments: for we are informed by Tacitus,
in his masterly account of the manners of that people, ^
that it was allowed to present accusations, and to prose-
cute capital offences, before the general assembly of the
nation.

An impeachment is described, by the law of England,
to be, a presentment to the most high and supreme
court of criminal jurisdiction, by the most solemn grand
inquest of the kingdom. ^ .

It is evident that, in England, impeachments, ac-
cording to this description, could not exist before the
separation of the two houses of parliament. Previous
to that era, the national council was accustomed to inquire
htto the conduct of the different executive officers, and
to punish them for malversation in office, or what
are* called high misdemeanors. The king himself was
not exempted from such inquiry and punishment : for it
hiid not yet become a maxim — ^that the king can do noi
wrong.

Prosecutions of this nature w^e not, like those of
ordinarjr crimes, intrusted to the management of an in-
dividual : they were conducted by the national council
themselves ; who acted, improperly enough, in the dou-
ble character of accusers and judges. Upon the separa-
tion of the two houses, it became an obvious improve^

» X Pol Ant 125. i Ch, 12. k 2. Hale, P. C. * 150. 4. Bl. Com. 256,

160 LECTURES ON LAW.

ment^ that the power of trying tiiose high xmsdemeanois
should belong to the house of lords^ and that the power,
of conducting the prosecution should belong to the house
of commons* In consequence of this improvement, the
inconsistent characters of judge and accuser were no
longer acted by the same body. ^ ^

We find the commons appearing as the gdoid inquest
of the nation, about the latter end of the reign, of Edward
the third. They then began to exhibit accusations for
crimes and misdemeanors, against offenders who were
thought to be out of the reach of the ordinary power of
the law. In the fiftieth year of that reign, they preferred
. impeachments against many delinque^its. These im-
peachments were tried by the lords. "

In the United States and in Pennsylvania^ impeach-
ments are confined to political characters, to political
crimes and misdemeanors, and to political punishments*
The president, vice president, and all civil officers of the
United States ; the governour and all other civil officers
under this commonwealth, are liable to impeachment,;
the officers of the United States, for treason, bribery, or
other high crimes and misdemeanors ; the officers of
X. this commonwealth, for any misdemeanor in Q%$e.
Under both constitutions, judgments, in cases of impeach*
ment, shall not extend fi^rther than to removal from office^
and disqualification to hold any office of honour, trust,
or profit* "

Thus much concerning the laws, and rules, and powei's
6f the two houses of the congress of the United State&^

1 Mmar. 403. » 2. Reeve. 85.

" Cons. U. S. art 2. s. 4. art. 1. s. 3d Cons. Peon. art. 4. s. S.

LECTURES ON LAW- Ifif

^aind concerning those of the two houses of the general
^sembly of Pennsylvania.

* V. I next consider the manner of passing laws.

To laws properly made, the following things arc of
indispensable necessity — information-^^^caution — ^perspi-
cuity— ^precision— ^agacity-^-conciscness. For obtaining
those valuable objects, different states have adopted dif-
ferent regulations. It wiH be worth while to bestow some
attention upon the most remarkable among thena.

At Athens, laws were made according to the follow-
ing very deliberate process. When any citizen had conj
ceived any plan, which, he thought, would promote the
interests of the commonwealth, he communicated it to
certain officers, whose duty it was to receive information
of every thing which concerned the publick. These officers
laid the plan before the senate. If it appeared to the
senate to be pernicious or useless, they rejected it. If
otherwise, they agreed to it ; and it then became what
we may call a bill, or overture. It was written on a white
tablet, and fixed up in a publick place, some days before
the meeting of the general assembly of the people. This
was done, that the citizens might have an opportunity of
reading and forming a deliberate judgment, concerning
what was to be proposed to them for their determination.
When the assembly met, the bill was read to them i and
every citizen had a right to speak his sentiments with
regard to it. ; If, after due consultation, it was thought
inconvenient or improper, a negative was put upon it :
if, on the contrary, the people approved of it, it was
passed into a law.
LECTURES ON X.AW.

We are informed, that no one, without mnch esutiott
and a perfect acquaintance with the constitution and
former laws, would presunie to propose a new regulation ;
because the danger was very great, if it proved unsuit-
able to the customis and inclinktions of the people. °

With all these numerous precautions, so many obsciire
and contradictory laws were gradually introduced into
the Athenian code, that a special commission was esta-
blished to make a selection among them. The labour evea
of the special commissioners was, however^ fruitless. ^

Peculiarly rigid was the constitution of the Locrians,
with regard to propositions for making a law. The citi-
zen, who proposed one, appeared in the assembly of the
people, with a cord round his neck* Encircled by that
solemn monitor^ he laid before themdie reasons, on which
his proposal was founded : if those reasons were uaba-
tisfactory, he was instantly strangled. ^

Among the Romans, legislation, as it might be expects'
ed, was considered as a science: it was cultivated with
the most assiduous industry, and was enriched with idl
the treasures of reason and philosophy. The mtatresa of
the world had laws to instruct her how to make laws. la
digesting the original plan of a biU, the magistrate, who
proposed it, used every possible precaution, that it might
come before the people in a form, the most perfect and
unexceptionable* He consulted, in private, with bis
friends, upon its form and matter. The object was, that
it migtu contain no clause contrary to the interests of the^
tommonwealth ; no provision inconsistent widi former

• J. Pot. Ant 14a P 2.Ai»cSri. « I. Pot Ant. 14a

tSGTURES ON LAW. 169

lavs, not intended to be repealed or altered ; and no
regulation, which might produce a partial advantage to
the connexions or relations of the proposer, or to the
proposer himself.

i

As unity and simplicity are essential perfections of
every good law ; every thing foreign to the bill immedi-
ately in contemplation was strictly prohibited. By in-
coherent assemblages, the people might be induced to
receive^ as law what they mig^t dislike ; or to reject what
they might desire.
A bill, after all the precautions before mentioned, was
submitted to the. examination of the senate. On being
approved there, it was fixed up publickly in some con-
spicuous part of the forum, that: every citizen might
underst^d fully what it contained. \A meeting of the
^^ comitia" was appointed by proclamation at the end of
twenty seven days. When this time was elapsed, the
people assembled. The bill proposed was proclaimed by
the publick crier ; and the person who proposed it was
expected to speak first in its support. After this, any
other member of the assembly was at liberty, to deliver
his sentiments ; and, to prevent any improper influence,
a private . citizen had always the privilege of speaking
before a magistrate, except the magistrate who was the
proposer of the law.

When the debates concerning the bill were finished,
pr4eparation was made for voting upon it. The names
of the centuries were thrown promiscuously into an urn,
smd being blended tc^etfaer by the band of the presiding
magistrate, they were drawn out, one by one. The cen-
tury first dr^wi^ was called the ^^prerogative century/'

vox.. ZK s

irt

LECTURES OH LAW.'

After these preparatory steps were taken, tke mag^traic^
who proposed the law, commaaded proclamatifm lo ,be
made for every one to repair to his respective ce&tury«
The prerogative century was called out firsts and after*
wards the others, as their lots directed.

In the eariy times of the reputdick, Ae votes were
given ^^ viva voce ;'^' but that mode beiog productive of
much confusion, and having a tendency to subject tbe
lower orders of citizens to the influence of their supe-
riours, the more secret and independent method ky ballot
was introduced. It is to be remembered, that the citizens
voted in their own right, and not by representation. To
vote by ballot, in such a situatk>n, was. unquestionably a
great improvement in a free system of government, swh
as that of Rome then was ; and accordingly we find that
Cicero '^ denominalbs the tablet, ^^ the silent assertei^ ot
Bberty."

In this solemn, deliberate, circnmspeet mAfiner, wllfst
was called ^^ lex,^ a law, in its strict a^d proper sense, wan
enacted. It was passed at the instance of a senaHM^kil
mag^trate, by the whole aggregate body of tibe people
(senators and patrici^ms, as well as plebeians) in whoiMt.
alone the majesty of the commonwealth resided* "

The general preamble to a capitulary of taws made m
the reign of Edward the first, gives us an intimation pf ,
the course, which, in England, was observed^ at that
period, in passing laws. It mentions, that, ^^ ift tbe fi»«w
sence ^f certain reverend fathers, Usbops- of Enj^ttady
and others of the council of the realm of Eng^aaid, ^e

r Be leg; agr. H. ^. Be leg. lH. IT. "^ Bever. n^TT.

.XXCTURES ON LAW. 171

widcywi'itten constitutions were recited ; and afterwards
tfaejr were heard and published before the king and his
rouncil, who all agreed, as well the justices as others,
tfiat they should be put into writing for a perpetual
memory, and that they should be stedfastly observed."'

In Great Britain, laws are now. psissed in the following
-"manner. All bills, except those of grace, originate in
one of the two houses ; and all other bilk, except those
for raising a revenue, may .originate in either house of
parliament. A bill may be brought in upon motion made
to the house ; or the house may give directions, to bring
it in* It 16 read-*^suppose in the house of commons-^a
.first, and, at a convenient distance, a seccHid time. After
each reading, the speaker opens the substande of it, and
puts the question, whether farther proceedings shall be
-had upon it. When it has had the second reading, it is
referred to a selected committee, or to a committee of
the whole house. In these committees, paragraph after
paragraph is debated, blanks are filled up, and alterations
and amendments are made. After the conimittee have
gone through it, they report it with these amendments :
the house then consider it again, and the question is put
%ipon every clause Snd amendment* When it is agreed
to by the house, it is then ordered to be engrossed for a
third reading. On being engrossed, it is read a third
titnp ; amendments are sometimes made to it ;. and a new
clause, which, in this late stage of its progress, is called
a- rider, is sometimes added. The speaker, again, opens
die contents of the bill; and, holding it up in his hand,
puts the question-T-Shall this bill pass ? If this is agreed
to, the title is then settled ; and one of the members is
directed to carry it to the lords, and desire their con-
currence*

« 4. Edw. 1. St ^.

172 LECTURES ON LAW* /

In that houie,. it passes through the same numerous
stages, as in the house of commons. If it is rejet^ted^
the rejection passes sub silentio; and no communicatioa
takes place concerning it, betfreen~the two houses* Oa
agreeing to it, the lords send a message, notifying their
agreement ; and the bill remains with them, if they have
made no amiendments. If they make amendments, they'
send them, with the bill, for the concurrence of. the
house of commons. If the two houses disagree with
regard to the amendments ; a conference usually takes
place between members deputed by them, re^ectively,
for this purpose. In this conference, the matters, con- -
cerning which the two houses differ in sentiment, a.re
generally adjusted: but if each house continue inflexible,
the bill is lost. If- the commons agree to the amend-
jnents made by the lords to the bill, it is sent back
to them with a message commtmicating their agree*
ment.

Similar forms are observed^ when a bill originates in
the house of lords***

We see, with what cautious steps, the business pro-
ceeds from its commencement to its conclusion. Each
house acts repeatedly as a court of review upon itself:
each house acts repeatedly as a court of review upon the
other also. Could one believe it ?— -Notwithstanding all
these proofs and instances of circumspection and care^
which are constantly exhibited by the legislature of
Great Britain, when it passes laws, precipitsmcy in pas-
sing them is frequently a well grounded cause of com-
plaint. *^ Perhaps," says a sensible and humane writer
upon the criminal jurisprudence of England, ^^ the great

« 1. BL Com. 181.— 184.

LECTURES ON LAW. 173

severity of our laws has been, in some <Legree, owing to
their having been made fiagrante trUy on some sudden
occasion^ -when a combination of atrocious circum-
stances, attending some particular ofFence, inflamed the
lawgivers.

J'^

In the house of representatives is^ congress, every bill
must be introduced by motion for leave, or by an order
of the house on the report of a committee : in either
case, a committee to prepare the bill shall be appointed.
When it is intended to introduce a bill of a general
nature by motion for leave, one day's notice, at least,
of the motion shall be given : every such motion may
be comnaitted.

Every bill must recefve three several readings in the
house, previous ' to its passage ; and no bill shall be
read twice on the same day, without a special order of
the house.

The first reading of a bill shall be for information ;
and, if opposition be made to it, the question shall
be, " Shall the bill be rejected?" If no opposition
be made, or if the question to reject be determined in
the negative, the bill shall go to its second reading with-
out a question*

When a bill is read the second time, the speaker
shall state it as ready for commitment or engrossment ;
if committed, a question shall be, whether to a select
committee, or to 'a committee of the whole house.
If the bill be ordered to be engrossed, a day shall be

^ 1. Dagge. 274.

IT^ XECTURES OK LA^KT.

Appointed, when it shall receive the third reading. After
commitment and report of a biD, it may, notwith-
standing, be recommitted, even at any time before its
passage.

In forming a committee of the whole hoase, the
speaker shall leave his chair ; and a chairman to preside
in the committee shall be appointed.

A bill, committed to a committee of the whole
house, shall be first read throughout by the clerk, and
shall be then read again and debated by clauses*
The body of the bill shall not be defaced or inteiiined ;
but all amendments, as they shall be agreed' to, shall
be duly entered, by the clerk, on a separate paper,
noting the page and line, to which they refer; and^
in this manner, shall be reported to the house. After
being reported, it shall again be subject to be debated
and amended by clauses, before a question to engross it
be taken. "*

In the senate of the United states, one day's notice, 9t
least, shall be given of an intended motion for leave to
bring in a bill.^

Every bill shall receive three readings previous- to
its being passed : these readings shall be on three
different days, unless the senate unanimously direct
otherwise : and the president shall give notice at each
reading, whether it be the first, or the second, or the
third.

w Joir. RjBp. rth April, 1789.

LECTUKES OK LAW. tft^

No bill shall be committed or amended until it shall
hftve been read twice i it may then be referred to a
committee.*

The senate never • go into a committee of the whdla
house* A committee of the whole house is composed
of every member ; and to form it, the speaker leaves the
chair, and may sit and debate as any other member of
the house. The vice president of the United States is^
ex offichy president of the senate ; but be has no v<^ie^
unless they be equally divided. > That this hig^ officer
might not be placed in a situation in which he could nei-
ther preside, nor vote, is, I presume, the reason, why the
senate do not resolve themselves into a committee of
the whole. It is a rule, however, in d^e senate^ thact
all bilk, on a second reading, shall, unless otherwise
<Hrdered^ be considered in the same manner, as if Ac
senate were in a committee of the whole, before they
shall be taken up and proceeded on by the senate, agree*
able to the standing rules, z

Such, so numerous, and so wise, s^e the precautions
used by our national legislature, before a bill can pass
througii \t9 two different branches. But all these precan*
tioRs, wise and numerous as they are, are far from being
^e only ones directed by the wisdom and care of our
national constitution.

After a bill has passed, in both houses, through all
the processes, which we have minutely enumerated, stiH^
before it becomes a law, it must be presented to the
president of the United States for his scrutiny and revi-

» Jour. Sen. 1789; p. 15. 7 Cons. V. & art 1. s. »..

* Iour« Sen. 17B9. p, 39.

1^6 LKCTURES ON LAW*

sion. If he approve, he sig^s it ; but if not, he retums
it, with his objections, to the house, in which it had
originated. That house enter the objections, M large,
on their journal , and proceed to reconsider the bill. If,
after sudi reconsideration, two thirds of the membeis
agree to pass it, it is sent, with the objectionp, to the
other house, by which also it is reconsidered; and if
approved by two thirds of that house, it shall become a
law. In all such cases, the votes of both houses
shall be determined by yeas and nays ; smd the names
of the persons voting for and against the bill sIkJI be
ejatered on the journal of each house respectively. «

I have already illustrated, ^ at large, the nature, the
political advantages, and the probable consequences^
of the qualified negative vested in the president of
the United States. I now consider it merely as aa
excellent regulation, to secure an additional degree cof
accuracy and circumspection in the manner of passing thfr
laws.

The observations,, which I have nuide on this subject,
have a relation to the constitution and legislature of thi»
commonwealth, as close as to those of the national goveiti-
Bient. A negative, similar to that of the president of
the United States, is lodged in the govemour of Penn-^
sylvania; ^ and the rules of proceeding, adopted by the
two houses which compose the legislature of this state,
are substantially the same with the rules framed by the
two houses which compose the legislature of |the Union*
It is, therefore, unnecessary, and it would be tedious,

a Cons. U. S. art 1. s. r. b Ante, vol 1. p. 448.

f CQiukPemi. ^rt 1. & 33.

LECTURES ON LAW. 1T7

to make, tb the former, a formal application of what has
beeu mentioned concerning the latter.

w

By both constitutions, and in both legislatures, provi-
sion has been made, as far as, by human contrivrance, it
would seem, provision can be made, in order to prevent
or to check precipitancy and intemperance, in the exer-
cise of the all-important power of legislation. And yet,
after all, there is, perhaps, too much Reason to appre-
hend that the cucoethes legisfemndi will be but too preva-
lent in both governments. This is an imperfection — ^in
the present, state of things, the very best institutionii
have their imperfections — this is an imperfection inci-
dent to governments, which are free. In such govern-
ments, the people, at once subjects and sovereigns, are
too often tempted to alleviate or to alter the restraints,
which they have imposed upon themselves.

We have already seen, that, in Athens, the number
and intricacy of the laws were productive of great incon-
veniences, and were considered and felt as a grievance
of the most uneasy and disagreeable kind. Livy, whose
eloquence is marked as conspicuously by its justness as
by its sfdendour, gives us a strong representation of the
unwieldiness of Roman laws. He ^ describes them ais
^^ immensus aliarum super alias acervatarum * legum cu-
mulus"— an immense collection of piles of laws, heaped
upon one another in endless confusion. The description
of the energetick Tacitus is still more concise and expres-
sive—" legibus laborabatur" — ^the state staggered under
the burthen of her laws. * As to Pennsylvania, I will, as
it becomes me, simply state the fact. Within the last

voi,, II. ▲ a

178 LECTURES ON LAW. !

fifteeh yeai^s, she has witnessed and she has sustained an
accumulationf of atts of legislation, in number eight
hundred and seventy one.

Far be it from me to avail myself of the abuse, and
to urge it against the enjoyment, of freedom* But while
I prize the inestimable blessing highly ad I do, I sm-ely
ought, in every character which I bear, to suggest, to
recommend, and to perform every thing in my power,
in order to guard its enjoyment trom its abude*

VI» I come now to the last head, under which I pro-
posed to treat concerning the legislative department :
this was, to consider the powers vested in congress by
the constitution of the United States.

On this subject, we discover a striking difference
between the constitution of the United States and that
of Pennsylvania. By the latter, each house of the ge-
neral assembly is vested with every power necessary for
a branch of the legislature of a free state. In the former,
no clause of such an extensive and unqualified import
is to be found. The reason ^ is plain. The latter insti-
tutes a legislature with general, the former, with enu-
merated, powexis. Those etuimerated powers ax« now
the subject' of our consideration.

One great end g of the national government is to
" provide for die common defence." Defence presup-
poses an attack. We all know the instruments by which i
an attack is made by one nation upon another. We all,
likewise, know the instruments necessary for defence

^ Art 1. & 13: 9 C<ms. U. & Pream.

LECTURES ON LAW. 1T9

«

when such an attack is made. That nation, which would
protect herself from hostilities^ or maintain peace, must
have it in her power — such is the present situation of
thiiigs-^to declare war. The. power of declaring war,
and the other powers naturally Connected withat, are
vested in congress. To provide and maintain a navy —
to make rules for its government — ^to gratit letters of
marque and reprisal-^^to make rules concerning captures
— rto raise and support armies — ^to establish rules for
their regulation — to provide for organizing, arming, and
disciplining the militia, and for calling them forth in the
service of the Union — all these are powers naturally
connected with the power of declaring war. All these
powers, therefore, are vested in congress. ^

As the law is now received in England, the king has
the sole prerogative of making war. * On this very in-
teresting power, the constitution of the United States
renews the principles of government, known in England
before the conquest. This indeed, as we are told by a
well informed writer, J may be accounted the chief differ-
ence between the Anglo-Saxon and the Anglo-Norman
government. In the former, the power of making peace
atfd war was invariably possessed by the wittenagemote ;
and was regarded as inseparable from the allodial condi-
tion of its members. In the latter, it was transferred to
the sovereign : and this branch of the feudal system,
which was accommodated, perhaps, to the depredations
and internal comnK>tions prevalent? in that rude period,
has remained in subsequent ages, when, from a total
change of manners, the circumstances, by which it was
recommended, have no longer any existence.

^ Cons. U. S. Art. 1. s. 8. i 1. Bl. Com. 257-. i Millar. 30 .

180 XECTURE5 OW LAW.

ft

There is a pleasure in reflecting on auch important
renovations of the ancient constitution of England* We
have found, and we shall find, that our national govern-
ment is recommended by the antiquity, as well as by^he
excellence,^ of some of its leading principles.

Another great end of the national government is, ^^ to
ensure domestick tranquillity." That it may be enabled
to accomplish this end, congress may call forth the mi«
litia to suppress insurrections«

Again ; the national government is instituted to ^^ es-
tablish justice." For this purpose, congress is authorized
to erect tribunals inferiour to the supreme court ; and to
define and punish offences against the law of nations,
and piracies and felonies committed on the high seas.
These points will be more fully considered under the
judicial department.

It is an object of the national government to '^ form
a more perfect union." On this principle, congress is
empowered to regulate commerce among the several
states, to establish post offices, to fix the standard of
weights ^nd measures, to coin and cegulatethe value %f
money, and to establish, throughout the United States,
a uniform rule of naturaliitation.

Once more, at this time : the national ^vemment
was intended to " promote the general welfare." For thjis
reason, congress have power to regulate commerce with
the Indians and with foreign nations, J^nd to promote the
progress of science and of useful arts, by securing, for
a time, to authors and inventors, an exclusive right to
their compositions and discoveries.

tECTURES ON LAW.
An exclusive property in places fit for forts, maga-
zines, arsenals, dock yards and other needful buildings ;
and an exclusive legislation over these places, and also,
ibr a convenient distance, over such district as may be-
come the seat of the national government— such exclu-
sive property, and such exclusive legislation, will be of
g^eat publick utility, perhaps, of evident publick neces-
sity. They are, therefore, vested in congress, i^ the
constitution of the United States.

For the exercise of the foregoing powers, and for the
accomplishment of the foregoing purposes, a revenue is
unquestionably indispensable. That congress may be
enabled to exercise and accomplish them, it has power
to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises.

The powers of congress are, indeed, enumerated ;
but it was intended that those powers, thus enumerated,
should be effectual, and not nugatory. In conformity to
this consistent mode of thinking and acting, congress
has power to make all laws, which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution every power vest-
ed by the constitution in the government of the United
States, or in any of its officers or departments.

And thus much concerning the first great division of
the national government — ^its legislative authority. I
proceed to its second grand division — its executive au-
iJiority.

it.

CHAPTER 11.

OF THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT.

»

An a former part of my lectures,* it was shown, that
the powers of government, whether legislative or cxe-*
cutive, ought to be restrained. But there is, it was
observed, a remarkable contrast between the proper
modes of restraining them ; for that the legislature, in
order to be restrained, must be divided; whereas the
executive power, in order to be restrained, should be
one. The reasons of this remarkable contrast were,
on that occasion, traced particularly, and investigated
fuUy.

We have seen, in our remarks on the congress of the
United States, that it consists of two branches — that it
is formed on the principle of a divided legislature. We-
now see, that, in the executive department, the princi-
ple of unity is adopted. " The executive power shall *
be vested in a president of the United States of Ame-
rica.''»»

« Ante. vol. 1. p. 399. 400. ^ Cobs. U. S. art 3. s. 1.

184 LECTURES OM LAW.

In treating of the executive department of the United
States, I shall consider, 1. The title of the president.
2. His powers and duties. •

1« I am to consider the title of the president of the
United States. His tide is by election.

The general preference which has been given, by
statesmen and writers on government, to a hereditary
before an elective title to the first magistracy in a state,
was the subject of full discussion in a former lecture. ^ I
then, I hope, showed^ that this preference, however
general, and however favoured, is, in truth and upon
the geni^ine principles of government^ ill founded. My
remarks on this subject I will not, at this time, re*
peat.

It will probably occasion surprise, when I state the
elective tide of wr first executive magistrate as a renewal^
in thb particular, of the ancient English constitutftm.
Without hesitation, however, I state this elective title asL
such.

Well aware I am, that, with regard to this point, I
differ in my opinion from the Author of the Commen-
taries on the laws of England. He thinks it clearly
appears, from the highest authority England is acquainted
with, that its crown has ever been a hereditary crown. ^
The best historical evidence, however, speaks, I appre«»
hend, a language very different from that, which Sir
William Blackstone considers as the highest authority*

« Ante vol. 1. p. 44a ^ 1. Bl Com. 219,

LECTURES ON LAW. 185

A king among the old Saxons, says Selden, was, in
probability, a commander in the field, an officer pro
tempore* His title rested upon the good opinion of
the freemen ; and it seemeth to be one of the best
gems of his crown, for that he was thereby declared
to be most worthy of the love and service of the
peopk.e

t

I

The sheriiF, says he, in another place, was chosen
by the votes of the freeholders , and, as the king him-
self, was entided to his honour by the people s favour.
The magistrates, he tells us, in the same spirit, were
all choice men ; and the king the choicest of the cho-
sen ; election being the birth of esteem, and this of
merit, g

The dignity and oflGke of the king, says Mr. Millar,
though higher in degree, was perfectly similar to those
of the tithing man, the hundreder, and the earl ; and he
posseiBsed nearly the same powers over the whole king-
dom, which those inferiour officers enjoyed in their
particular districts. ^

King Offa, in an address to his people, speaks of
his elective tide, and of the great purpose for which
he was elected, in the following very remarkable and
unequivocal terms-^' " electus ad libertatis tuae tui-
tionem, non meis meritis, sed sola liberalitate vestra."

It appears from history, says a vexy accurate inqui*
rer,J that all the kings of the Saxon race were elected to
their kingly office.

« Bac on Gov. 29. 3a fld.41. 8^ Id 70.

^ Millar. 153. ' SuUiv. 244. (4te.) i Id. 245^'

VOL. II* S b

1^6 I.ECTUILE8 ON LAV.

Even the mighly Conqueror, says the learned 5eU
den,^ stooping under the law of a Saxon king, became a
king by leave ; wisely foreseeing, that a title gotten by
election is more certain than that which is gotten by
powers Henry the third brought in with him the first
precedent in point, oL succession by inheritance in the
throne of England.

Sir William Blackstone himself, in one place in his
Commentaries, speaking of thie Saxon laws, mentions,
among others^ the election of their magistrates by the
people, originally even that of their kings* He adds,
indeed, that dear bought experience afterwards evinced
the convenience and necessity of establishing a heredi-
tary succession to the crown. ^

If an elective title is a distemper in the body politick ;
the history and experience of England would lead us to
conclude, that a hereditary title is a remedy stiU wcorse
than the dises^e. Henry the third is stated as the first
fair instance of a prince ascending the throne by virtue
of a hereditary claim. How soon was this claim trans^
mitted, in crimson characters, to his posterity, by the fatal
and factious war of the roses concerning the right of suc-
cession ! How long and how destructively did that war
rage! How pernicious were its consequences, for ages
after its immediate operations had ceased ! How few and
how short have been the lucid intervals, during whith
the madness of a contested claim to the succession or to
the enjoyment of the English or the British crown has not
disturbed the peace and serenity of the nation \

^ Bac. on Gov. 7% > 4. BL Com. 4d6.

LSCTURES ON- LAW. 18/

The intrigues, and cabals, and tumults, and convul-*
sions, which. are assumed as necessarily annexed to the
election of a first magistrate, are perpetually urged against
this mode of estabHshing a title to the office. It is well
worth our while to mark the sedulous attention, with
Arhich intrigues, and cabals, and tumults, and convulsions,
in the election of our first magistrate, are avoided, nay,
we trust, rendered impracticable, by the wise provisions
introduced into our national constitution^

To avoid tumults and convulsions, the president of the
United States is chosen by electors, equal. In number, to
the whole number of senators and representatives, to
which all the states iare entitled in congress. Thes6, as
we shall find by referring to one part of the constitution,
cannot much exceed the number of one for every thirty
thousand citizens. These, as we shall find by referring
to another part of the constitution,- are only equal to the
number, which compose the two deliberative bodies of the
national legislature. If they are not too numerous to
transact, with decency and with tranquillity, the legisla-
tive business of the Union, in two places ; surely they aife^
not too numerous to perform, with dtfbency'and with
tranquillity, a single aet; in as many places as there are
states ; foiy iu tbe?ir respective states, the electors are!
obliged to^meet.

In the appointment of the electors, there is not reason
for the least apprehension of convulsions and tumults.
They , are to be appointed by each state ; and they are to
be appointed in such a manner as the legislature of each
state shall direct. They will, in all probability, be ap-
pointed in one of the two following modes — ^by the citi-
zens-^r by the legislature. If the former ; the business

* IBB LlKCTUEES ON LAW>

wiU be managed in the same manner as the election of
representatives ia each state. If the. latter ; it will be
managed by those to whom the diflferent states have in-
trusted their legislative authority — ^that kind of authority,
the exercise of which requires the greatest degree of
cooluess and caution. Of either mode, can tumults and
convulsions be th^ apprehended result ?

To intrigue and cabal, the election of the president
is rendered equally inaccessible, as to convulfii(His and
tumults. Those, who s^point the elector^, have a deep
interest, or represent such as have a deep interest, in the
consequences of the election. This interest will be best
promoted by far other arts- than those of cabal and dn-
trigue. Such electors, we may, therefore, presume, will
be appointed, as will favour and practise those other arts.
Some reliance, consequently, may be placed on the cha-
racters of the electors.

But this is, by mo means, the only circumstance, on
which the expectations of the United States rest for
candour and impartiality in the election of a president.
Other circumstances ensure them. 1. The, electors must
vote by ballot. Ballot has been called the silent assertor
of liberty : with equal justness, it may be. called the silent
assertor of honesty. 2. The electors must give their
votes on the same day throughout the United .States,
How can cabal and intrigue extend or combine their in-
fluence at the same time, in many different places, sepa-
rated from one another by the distance of hundreds or
thousands of miles \ 3. Each elector must vote for two
persons, without distinguishing which of the two he
wishes to be the president. The precise operation of his
vote is not known to himself ajtthe time when he gives it.

L£CTUR£8 ON LAW. . 189

By this reguktton, simple but sagacious, cabal and in-
trigue, could they even be admitted, would be under the
necessity of acting blindfold at the election* The sinister
plims, formed separately in every part, might and often
would be defeated by the joint and unforeseen effect of
th^ whole. For it is the unforeseen effect of the whole,
which must finally determine, or furnish materials for
finally determining, the election of the president.

His election shall be finally determined in this manner.
Xhe person, in whose favour the greatest number of votes
is given, provided that number shall be a majority o^the
-whole number of electors, shall be the president. If more
than one person have a majority, and, at the same time,
an equal number of votes ; the house of representatives
shall immediately choose one of them for president, by
ballot. If no person have a majority of votes of the elec-
tors ; the house of representatives shall choose, by ballot,
a president from the five highest on the list.

After the choice of the president, the person having
the greatest number of votes of the electors shall be the
yice president. But if there remain two or more having
equal votes y the senate shall choose from them the vice
president by ^ ballot, n

"* Cons. U. S, art 2. s. 1.

"^ Bf an alteration of the constitution recommended by cong^ress
in December, 1803, and which, having received the approbation of
three fourths of the states in the Union, has now become a part of
the constitution, the regulations mentioned in the text have been
changed in the following particulars. The electors are directed to
name, in their ballots, the person voted for as president, and, in
distinct ballots, the person voted for as vice president, and to trans«
But to the seat of government distinct lists of the persons so voted for.
LECTURES ON LAW.

Thus much concerning the title of the president of
the United States.

2. I am, in the next place, to consider his poiv^rs
and duties. "^

He is to take care that the laws be faithfully executed ;,
he is commander in chief of the army and navy of the
United States, and of the militia, when called into their
actual service. In the Saxon government, the power of
the first executive magistrate was also twofold. He had
authority to lead the army, as we are informed by Sel-
den, to punish according to demerits and accc^ding ta
laws, and reward according to discretion. The law mar*
tial and that of the sea were branches of the positive
law, settled by the general vote in the wittenagemote^ .

Ths person having tho greatest number of votes for president, shall
be the president, if such number be a majority of the whole num.
ber of electors appointed ; and if no person have such majority, then
from the persons having the highest numbers, not exceeding three
on the list of those voted for as president, the house of representa.'
tives shall choose immediately, by ballot, the president If thehoiise
do not make a choice before the foorth day of Mardi then next
following, the vice president shall act as president, as in case of the
death or constitutional disability of the president. The person, hav-
ing the greatest number of votes as vice president, shaff be the vice-
president, if such number be a majority of the whole number of
electors appointed ; and if no person have a majority, then from
the two highest numbers on the list, the senate shaU choose the vice
president A quorum for the purpose shall consist of two thirds of
the whole number of senators, and a majority of the wh<de number
shall be necessary to a choice. No perscm CGnstitutionally ineligible
to the office of president, shall be eligible to that of vice pre»dent
of the United States.— £d

• Cons. U. S. Art 2. s. 2, 3.

LECTIIRES ON LAW, 191

and not left to t;he will of a lawless general or comman-
der : so tender and uniform were those times both in
their laws and liberties. J The person at the head of the
.executive department had authority, not to make, or al-
ter, or dispense with the laws, but to execute and act
the laws, which were established : and against this power
there was no rising up, so long as it gadded not, like
an unfeathered arrow, at random. On the whole, he
ivas no other than afrimum mobile^ set in a regular mo-
tion by laws, which were established by the whole body
of the nation. ">

. The president has power to nominate, and, with the
advice and consent of the senate, to appoint ambassadours,
judges of the supreme court, and, in general, all the
other officers of the United States. On this subject,
there is a very striking and important difference between
the constitution of the United States and that of Penn-
sylvania* By the latter, the first executive magistrate
possesses, uncontrolled by either branch of the legisla.
ture, the power of appointing all officers, whose appoint-
xnents are not, in the constitution itsdf, otherwise pro-
vided for. ^ On a former occasion « I noticed a maxim,
which is of much consequence in the science of govern-
ment— ^that the legislative and executive powers be
preserved distinct and unmingled in their exercise.
This maxim I then considered in a variety of views :
and^ in each, found it to be both true and useful. I am
very free to confess, that, with regard to this point, the
proper principle of government is, in my opinion, ob-
served by the constitution of Pennsylvania much more

P Bac. on Gov. 4a ^ Id. 32, 33.

.* Cods, Peon* art 3. s. 8. * Aate. vol 1. p. 401, 407.

192 LECTURES ON LAW«

correctly, than it is by the constitution of the United
States.' In justice, however, to the latter, it ought to
be remarked, that, though the appointment of officers is
to be the concurrent act of the president and senate, yet
an indispensable prerequisite — ^the nomination of them
-*is vested exclusively in the president.

The observations which I have delivered concerning
the appointment of officers, apply likewise to treaties \ the
making of which is another power, that the p!resident
has, with the advice and consent of the senate.

The president has power to fill up all vacancies that
may happen, in offices, during the recess of the^ senate,
by granting commissions, which shall expire at the end
of their next session.

He has no stated counsellors appointed for him by
the constitution. Their inutility, and the dangers ari-
sing from them, were before ^ fully shown« He may,
however, when he thinks proper, require the opinion, in
writing, of the principal officer in each of the executive
departments, upon any subject relating to the duties of
their offices.

On extraordinary occasions, he may convene both
houses of the legislature, or either of them : and, in
case of disagreement between them, with respect to the
time of adjournment, he may adjourh them to such time^
as he shall think proper.

It is his duty, from time to time, to lay before con-
gress information of the state of the Union; and to re-

LECTURJES ON LAW. 193

commend' to their consideration such measures^ as he
Bhall judge necessary and expedient.

He has power to grant reprieves and pardons for of-
fences against the United States, except in cases of im-
peachment*

To prevent crimes, is the nohlest end and aim of
criminal jurisprudence. To punish ihcm, is one of the
means necessary for the accomplishi^nt of this noble end
and aim.

The certainty of punishments is of the greatest im-
portance, in order to constitute them fit preventives of
crimes. This certainty is best obtained by accuracy in
thepublick police, by vigilance and activity in the execu-
tive officers of justice, by a prompt and certain communi-
cation of intelligence, by a proper distribution of rewards
for the discovery and apprehension of x^riminals, and,
when they are apprehended, by an undeviating and in-
flexiUe strictness in canying the laws against them into
sure and full execution. '

All this will be readily allowed. What should we
then think of a power, given by the constitution or the
laws, to dispense with accuracy in the publick police, and
with vigilance, vigour, and activity in the search and
seizure of offenders? Such a power, it must be admitted,
^would seem somewhat extraordinary.

What, it will next be asked, should we think of a power,
given by the constitution or the laws, to dispense with
thrir execution upon criminals, after they have been ap-
prehended, tried, convicted, and condemned t In other

VOL. II. . G c

J

\i._ '

194 LECTURES ON LAW.

words— ^an the power to pardon be admissible into aojr
well regulated government i Shall a power be given to
insult the laws, to protect crimes, to indemnify, and, bjr
indemnifying, to encourage criminals ?

From this, or from a similar view of things, many
writers, and some of them very respectable as well as
humane, have been induced to conclude, that, in a go-
vernment of laws, the power of pardoning should be
altogether unknown*

Would you prevent crimes ? says the Marquis of Bec-
caria: let the laws be clear and simple: let the entire
jpirce of the nation be united in their defence : let them,
and them only, be feared. The fear of the laws isssdu*'
tary : but th^ fear of man is a fruitful and a fatal source,
of crimes. Happy the nation, in which pardons will be
considered as dangerous! Clemency is a virtue which
belongs to the legislator, and not to the executor of the
laws ; a virtue, which should shine in the, code, and no^
in private judgipent. The prince, in pardoning, gives
up the publick security in favour of an individual : -and,
by his ill judged benevolence^ proclaims an act of impu-
nity.*

With regard, says Rousseau, to the prerogative of
granting pardon to criminals, condemned by the laws of
their country, and sentenced by the judges, it belongs
only to that power, which is superiour both to the judges*
^d the laws — ^tfae sovereign authority. Not that it is
very clear, that even the supreme power is vested with
such a right, or that the circumstances, in which, it might
be exerted} ^re frequent or determinate. In a well

* Bee. c. 41. 46.

LECTURES OK LAW* 195

governed state, there are but few executions ; not be
cause many are pardoned i but because there are few
criminals. Under the Roman republick, neither the se-
nate nor the consuls ever attempted to grant pardons :
even the people never did this, although they sometimes
recalled their own sentence. ^

In Persia, when the king has condemned a person,
it is no longer lawful to mention his name, or to intercede
in his favour. Though his majesty were drunk and
beside himself; yet the decree must be executed ; other-
wise he would contradict himself; and the law admits
•f no contradiction.^

■4

^^ Extremes, in nature, equal ends produce ;" so in
politicks, as it would seem.

The more general opinion, however, is, that in a
state, there ought to be a power of pardoning offences.
The Exclusion of pardons, says Sir William Blackstone,
must Necessarily introduce a very dangerous power in
the judgeK>r jury, that of construing the criminal law by
the spirit instead of the letter; or else it must be holden,
what no man will seriously avow, that the situation and
circumstances of th^ offender (though they alter not the
essence of the crime) ought to make no distinction in
the punishment.^

I. cannot, upon this occasion, enter into the discussion
of the great point suggested and decided, in a very few
words, by the learned Author of the Commentaries —
that judges and juries have no power of construing the

«»
V Roos, Or. Com. 54. 1. 3. c. 5. "^ Mont. Sp.L. b. 3. c. 10.

* 4. BL Com. 39a

196 LECTURIBB OH ILAW*

criminal law by the spirit instead of tlie letter. But I
cannot, upon any occasion, su£Fer it to pass under my
notice, without entering my caveat against in^pUcit Mb»
mission to this decision. I well know the humane nile^
that, in the construction of a penal law, neither judge
nor jury can extend it to facts equally criminsdi to tbos^
specified in the letter, if they are not contained in the
letter. But I profess myself totally ignorant of any rule
— I think it would be an inhuman one — that the letter of
a penal law may be carried beyond the spirit of it ; and it
may certainly be carried by the letter beyond the spirit^
if judges and juries are prohibited, in construing it, from
considering the spirit as well as the letter. But to return
to our present subject.

The most general opinion, as we have already obscav
ved, and, we may add, the best opinion, is, that, in every
state, there ought to be a power to pardon offences. In
the mildest systems, of which human societies are capa*
ble, there will still exist a necessity of this discretionary
power, the proper exercise of which may arise from the
possible circumstances of every conviction. '^ Citizens^
even condemned citizens, may be unfortunate in a higher
degree, tha^ that, in which they are criminal. When the
cry of the nation rises in their favour ; when the judges
themselves, descending from their seats, and laying aside
the formidable sword of justice, come to supplicate in
behalf of the person, whom they have been obliged to
condemn ; in such a situation, clemency is a virtue ; it
becomes a duty.

But where ought this most amiable prerogative to be
placed ? Is it compatible with the nature of every species
of government? With regard to both these questions,
different opinions are entertained.

LECTURES ON lAW. 19/

With regard to the last, the learned Author of the
Commetitaries on the laws of England declares his un-*
qualified sentiment — ^*'In democracies, this power of
pardon can never subsist ; for there nothing higher is
acknowledged than the magistrate, who administers the
Ikws : and it would be impolitick for the poiver of judging
and of pardoning to centre in one and the same person.
This would oblige him (as the President Montesquieu
observes) very often to contradict himself, to make and
Unmake his decisions : it would tend to confound all
ideas of right among the mass of the people; as they
would find it difficult to tell, whether a prisoner were
discharged by his innocence, or obtained a pardon through »
favour. In Holland, therefore, if there be no stadtholder,
there is no power of pardoning lodged in any other mem-
ber of the state.

^^ But in monarchies, the king acts in a superiour
sphere; and though he regulates the whole government
as the first mover, yet he does not appear in any of the
disagreeable or invidious parts of it. Whenever the
nation see him personally engaged, it is only in works
of legislature, magnificence, or compassion.

wy

Let us observe, by the way, the mighty difference
between the person described by Selden, as the first
magistrate among the Saxons, and him described by
Sir William Blackstone, as the monarch of England
since that period. The former was set in regular motion
by the laws : the latter is the first mover, who regulates
the whole government.

y 4.BLCQm,^.391.

1^ LECTUKES OK LAW.

Let me also repeat here, what has been mentioned in
another place. One of the most enlightened writers oa
English jurisprudence imagines, that the power of par*
doning is a power incommunicable to the democratlcal
specie^ of government. For the western world new aad
rich discoveries in jurisprudence have been reserved.
We have found, that this species of government— the
best and the purest of all — that, in which the supreme
power remains with the people — is capable of being form-
ed, arranged, proportioned, and organized in suph a-
manner, as to exclude the inconveniences, vaxd to aecore
the advantages of all the others.

Why, according to Sir William Blackstone, can the
power to pardon never subsist in a democracy ? Because^
says he, there, nothing higher is acknowledged, than
the magistrate, who administers the laws. By pursuing
the principle of democracy to its true source, we have
discovered, that the law is higher than the magifitrate,
who administers it ; that the constitution, is higher dian'
both ; and that the supreme power, remaining with the
people, is higher than all the three. With perfect con-
, sistency, therefore, the power of pardoning may sub-
sist in our democratical governments : with perfect
propriety, we think, it is vested in the president of the
United States.

The constitution, too, of Pennsylvania, animated by
the wise and powerful recommendation, conveyed, by
innumerable channels, to the conv/ention, which proposed
and framed it, " that they should imitate, as far as it
Applies, the excellent model exhibited in the constitution
ofthe United States" — ^the constitution of Pennsylvania*

% Avt.3.8.9.

LECTURES ON LAW. 199

vests the power of pardoning in the govemour of the
commonwealth.

It is by no means, however, a unanimous sentiment^
if we collect the publick sentiment from the. constitutions
of the different states of the Union, that the power of
pardoning criminals should be vested solely in the supreme
executive authority of the state.

By the constitution of New York, » the govemour,
in cases of treason or murder, can only suspend the
execution of the sentence, until it shall be reported to
the legislature, at their subsequent meeting; and they
shall either pardon, or direct the execution of the crimi-
nal, or grant a further reprieve.

In the state of Delaware the governour possesses the
power of granting pardons*, except where the law shall
otherwise direct. ** A similar legislative control is impo-
sed on the governours of Maryland, Virginia, and North
Carolina, by the constitutions*^ of those states.^

a S. 18. k Cons. Del. s. 7,

c Cons. Mar. s. S3. Cons. Vir. p. 127. Cons. N. C. s. 19.'

d By the present constitution of Delaware, this legislative con-
trol over the power of the govemour to grant pardons is destroyed
— ^Art. 3. 8. 9. In Vermont, the power of the ex^utive to grant
pardons is restrained in cases of treason and murder ; in which
they have power << to grant reprieves, but not to pardon, until after
. the end of the neict session of assepably.'' Cons. c. 3. s. 11. By the
constitution of Kentucky, the power of pardoning is, in cases of
treason, vested in the general assembly, but the govemour may
grant reprieves until the end of their next session. Art. 3. s. 11. In
Temiessee and Ohio, pardons can be granted only after conviction
Cobs. Ten. art % s. 6. Cons. Ohio, art. 3. s. 5. In Georgia like*,

200 LECTURES ON LAW.

In the states of New Hampshire, Massachussetts and
South Carolina, pardons can be granted only after a
conviction.*

The president and vice president hold their offices
during the term of four years.

The president shall, at stated times, receive, for his
services, a compensation, which shall neither be increased
nor diminished during the period, for which he is elected ;
and he shall not receive, within that period, any other
emolument from the United States, or any of them.

I here finish what I propose to say concerning the
second great division of the national government-^— its
executive authority.

wise, according to her present constitution, the gcnreniour can grant
pardons only after conviction ; and in cases of treason and murder,
he can only recite the execution, and make report thereof to the
next general assembly, by whom a pardon may be granted. Cons-
Geor. art. 2. s. 7. JSd

« Cmis. N. H.p. 18. 19. Cons. Mas. c. 2. s. 1. a.8. Cons. S. C;
a^t|2. $.7.

CHAPTER III.

OP THE JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT.

t

1 HE judicial poorer of the United States is vested iii
Che supreme court, and in such inferiour courts as are
established by congress. *

A court, according to my Lord Coke,^ is a place where
justice is judicially administf red.

To Egypt, where much wisdom, we are assured, was
to be learned, we trace the first institution of courts of
justice. Concerning its adnilnistration, the Egyptians
were remarkably vigilant and exact ; for they believed,
that on it depended entirely the support or the dissolu*
tion of society. Their highest tribunal was composed of
thirty judges. ^ At the head of it was placed the person,
who, at once, possessed the greatest share of wisdom, of
probity, and of the publick esteem.

a Cons. U. S. art 3. s. 1.

c 1. Gog. Or. L. SS.
vol. II* D d

b 1. Ins. 59.

S02 LECTURES ON LAW.

I

The trials, it is said, were carried on in writing ; and,
to avoid unnccdssarj' delay, the parties were allowed to
make only one reply on each side. When the evidence
was closed, the judges consulted together concerning the
nierits of the cause. When they were fully understood
and considered, the president gave the signal for proceed-
ing to a judgment, by taking in his hand a small image,
adorned with precious, stones* When the sentence was
pronounced, the^president touched, with the image, the
party, who had gained his cause. The image was with-
out eyes ; and was the symbol, by which the Egyptians
. were accustomed to represent Truth. It is probably
from this circumstance, that Justice has been painted
bliad«

I *

* The judges of this court received from government

what was necessary for their support ; so that the people

paid them nothing for obtaining justice.

We are told, that no advocates were admitted in this
tribunal ; but that the paHies themselves drew up their
own processes. This, however, must probably be under-
stood with some limitation ; for we cannot reasonably
imagine, that all the inhabitants of Egypt were not only-
taught to write, but were also possessed of a degree of
legal skill, sufficient to qualify them for- composing their
own defences. It is not unlikely, that the regulation
went no farther than one, which we have seen adopted in
another state — ^Every one has a right to be heard by him-
self and his counsel.

On the model of this high tribunal of Agypt, was
formed the Celebrated court 6f the Areopagus at Athens*
This court was instituted, one thousand and five hundred

>

LECTUREB ON LAW. 203

years before the Christian era, by Cecrops, who was ori-
ginally of Sais, a city of the lower Egypt, and to whom
Athens, the seat of literature and politeness, of Uoquence
and patriotism, owed its foundation and first establish-
ments.

This excellent man relinquished the fertile banks of
the Nile, in order to avoid the tyranny, under which his
native country, at that time, groaned. After a tedious
voyage, he reached the shores of Attica : and was re-
ceived in the most friendly manner by its inhabitants.
Placed, after some time, at the head of their affairs, he
conceived the noble design of bestowing happinesls on his
adopted country. For this purpose, he introduced among
his new compatriots niany valuable and memorable insti-
tutions, of which, indeed, he was not strictly the author —
if he had, he would have been the first of legisl^ors and
the greatest of mortals — but which he brought, probaUy
with his own judicious improvements, from a nation, who
had been attentive to carry them to perfection during a
long series of ages. Some of his institutions — ^in all of
them wisdom and humanity shone conspicuous-^will
claim our future attention. At present, it is directed to
the court of the Areopagus.

«

Aristides — well qualified to decide upon this subject ;
for he ulras distinguished by the appellation of the just —
informs us, that this court was the most sacred and venera-
ble tribunal in all Greece. From its first t^stablishment^
it never pronounced a sentence, which gave reasonable
cause of complaint. Strangers, even sovereigns, solicited
and submitted to its decisions ; which contributed, more

204 LECTURES ON LAW.

than any thing else, to disseminate the principles of jnstice
first among the Grecians. ^

The proceedings in this tribunal were, in some in-
stances, very solemn and striking. In a prosecution for
murder, the prosecutor was obliged to swear, that he was
related to the person deceased — ^for none but near rela-
tions could prosecute-— and that the prisoner was the cause
'of his death. • The prisoner swore, that he was innocent
of the crime, of which he was accused. Each confirmed
his oath with the most direful imprecations ; wishing that,
if he swore falsely, himself, h)s family, and his houses
might be utterly destroyed and extirpated by the divine
vengeance. *

In early times, it is s^id, the parties were obliged to
plead their causes themselves. But this severity was^
afterwards relaxed. Those, who were accused, might
avail themselves of the assistance of counsel. The coun-
sel, however, were never permitted, in pleading, to wan-
der from the merits of the cause. This close and perd*
nent manner of speaking gave^the tone to the bar of
Athens, and extended itself to the speeches, which were
delivered in other assemblies. In this. manner, we may
natdraUy account for the condensed Vehemence so re-
markable in the orations of Demosthenes.

Let tne conclude this account of the Areopagus by
mentioning an incident, seemingly of slight importance,
but which will not be related without producing, in my
hearers, feelings in proper unison with those, which the

A % Gog. Or. L. 16. 21. 1. Anac 11. « 1. Pot Ant 106.
' % Gog. Of. L. 23.

' LECTURES ON LAW. 205

• ■^^

incident occasioned. A little bird, pursued by its enemy,
took refuge in the bosom of one of the judges., Ixlstdad
of protecting, he stifled it. For this instance of cruelty
he received punishment ; and was thus taught that he^
-whose heart is callous to compassion, should not be suffer^
ed to have the lives of the citizens at his mercy*

You will not, after this, be surprised, when you are
told, that the (decisions of the Areopagus were deemed
the "Standards of humanity, as well as of wisdom. ^

In order to understand, fully and in their true spirity
the juridical* institutions of the United States and of/
Pennsylvania, it will be of the greatest use to take a mi-
nute and historical view of the judicial establishments of
England; especially those which were formed under the
government of the Saxons.

Civil governments, in their first institutions, areno*
■ thing more than voluntary associations for the purposes
of society.' . When the Saxons first settled in Britain^
they found themselves obliged, by the disorders of the
times, to associate, in their different settlements, for
their mutual security and prot.ection. Families, con-
nected by consanguinity or other ties, found it agreeable*
as well as necessary, to live together in the same neigh-
bourhood, in order to enjoy the social pleasures of peace,
as well as to give and receive assistance in the time of
war. These societies were known by the appellation of
vills or. towns. ^ On some occasions, an ^ association of
the same kind was necessary, and it was therefore gra-
dually introduced, between the inhabitants of a larger

f2.Anac290. hWTiUar.lU

406 LECTCTRISS ON LAW.

I
t

district. Those larger districts were distin^ished hy
tb6. name of hundreds. ^ The cbnnexions and the exi-
' gencies of society becoming, on great emergencies, still
inore important and extensive, the members of diiFerent
hundreds also associated together, and formed distriscts
larger stiUy^vhich were denominated shires. The officer
who presided dVer them was called alderman or earl.
Hundreders and tythingmet, as their names import,
presided over the lesser associations, i

This establishment of tythings, and hundreds, and
shires, though, at first, intended chiefly for the mutual
defence of the inhabitants, was soon rendered subser-
vient to other purposes, salutary and important.^ The
same motives which induced them to associate for their
Security against foreign danger, induced them alsq to
iake measures for preventing or composing internal dif-
ferences or animosities. In this manner, a judicial au-
thority was gradually assumed by every tything over the
members, of which it was formed. In the same man-
ner and upon the same principles, the hundred exercised
the power of determining the controversies, which arose
within the bounds of its larger district. In the same
manner and upon the same principles stilly the shire esta-
blished a similar jurisdiction over the different hundreds
comprehended within its still more extensive territory.

These courts took cognizance of every cause, civil
and criminal ; and as, in the first instance, they enjoyed
respectively the sole jurisdiction within the boundaries
of each, they soon and naturally became subordinate, o^

i Maiar. 117. i Id. tit, 114.

t

y

LECTUHES ON LAW* 20ir

to another : from the sentence of the tything, an appeal
lay to the hundred, and from the sentence of the huK^
dred, an appeal lay to the shire*

It deserves also to be known — ^for it is important^ to
know— 4batv besides the 4e£ence of the country and th€
decision of law suits, the Saxon tythings, hundreds, and
shires were accustomed to, deliberate upon matters of
still greater consequence* They received complaints
concerning the grievances or abuses in administration^
vrhich' happened within their respective districts, and
sq)plied a remedy by introducing new regulations. Thus
the heads of families in every tything exercised a legxs«
lative power, within their own limits: but were liable
,to be controlled by the meetings of the hundred, which
enjoyed the same power in a larger district: both of
these were subordinate to the assemblies of the shire^

It

which possessed a legislative authority over all the
hundreds in that extensive division. "* Unto the coun*
ty court, says Selden, " all the freemen of the coun*
' ^ assembled, to learn the law, to administer justice, and
to provide remedy for publick inconvenience, o

"* Millar. 130. n Bac. on Gov. 42.

« A striking analogy >vill sometimes be found where it is least to
be expftQteo. The empire of Peru was divided into small districts,

' each consisting of ten families : five of these constituted a higher
class : two of these composed a third class, called a hundred \ ten
hundreds formed the great class of a thousand. Over each of these
a superiatending officer was appointed to administer justice, and to
provide, that those committed to his care should be furnished with

' the means of industry and the necessaries of life.

Between two governments, so remote from each other m time
and plsioe, liilaaiialogy coald not hate been the^ect ef imitation :

208 LECTURES ON LAW.

\

A$ the freemen of a tything, of a hundred, and o£
a shire determined the common affairs of their seversd
districts : so the union of people belonging to different
shires produced a greater assembly, consisting of all the
freemen of a kingdom. This national council was cal^-
led the wittenagemote. Th€ king presided. During the
heptarchy, each of the Saxon kingdoms had a wittenage-
mote of its own : but when they were all reduced into
one, a greater wittenagemote was formed, whose au- ^
thority extended over the whole English nation, f Those
who could not attend the wittenagemote in person, had
always the right of appointing a procurator to represent
them in their absence, q

The wittenagemote exercised powers of a judiciary,
as well as of a legislative kind. They heard complaints
concerning great quarrels and enormities, which could
not be adjusted or redressed by the prdinary courts ;
and they endeavoured, by their superiour authority, .
either to reconcile the parties, or to decide their con*
troversies. By frequent interpositions of this nature,
the great council was formed into a vegular court of jus-
tice, and becanfie the supreme tribunal of the kingdom.
In this tribunal, appeals from the cQurts of every shire,
as well as original suits between the inhabitants of dif-*
• ferent shires, were finally determined* *"

The original meetings of the wittenagemote were ^
held regularly at two seasons of the year : but the in-
crease of business, especially of that which regarded the

it must have been the native result of similar states and circum«
stances of society. Bever. 7, 8.

P.MiUar.l33. a Id. 143, 144 >'Id.l50.

•LECTURES OK LAW. 209

administmtion of justice, rendered it afterwards neces-
sary that its meetings should be more frequent. Occa^
sional meetings were, therefore, convened by the king.
At those occasional meetings, the nobility, who resided
at a distance, seldom gave themselves the trouble of
appearing. Of consequence, the business devolved on
those members who happened to be at court, or who
might be said to compose the privy council of the king.
For this reason, they seldom undertook matters of gene*
ral legislation ; but confined themselves chiefly to the
hearing of appeals. These smaller and occasional meetings
of the wittenagemote seem to have suggested the idea
of the aula regis. *

After the conquest, appeals to parliament multiplied:
the members of .that assembly became 4aily less disposed
to execute this part of their duty : a regular tribunal was,
therefore, formed, in order to discharge it. Of this
tribunal, the great officers of the crown became the
constituent members. To these were adtled such as,
from their knowledge of the law, were thought qualified
to give the best assistance. ' This court received, from
the place in which it was commonly held, the appella-
tion of the aula regis. In its constitution, it corresponded
exactly with the tour de roif^ which, after the accession
of Hugh Capet, was gradually formed out of the ancient
parliament of France ; and with the aulick council,
which, after the time of Otho the Great, arose, in the
same manner, out of the diet of the German empire.'*

For some time after its first formation, the king^
whenever he thought proper to sit as a judge, presided

»<Minar. 242. 243. « Id. 316. « Id. ZMt.

vol. II. E e

/

210 LECTURES OK LAW. •

«

in the aula r^gis: but he, at length, ceased to dis*
charge the ordinary functions of a judge ; and the grand
justiciary became, in a manner, the sole magistrate of
the court. ^ .

The institution of this court yr2is a great improvement
in the system of judicial policy. It was always in readi-
ness to determine every controversy, criminal and civil.
The reparation of injuries was secured ; the expenses
of litigation were diminished ; and justice pervaded the
remotest parts of tlie kingdom. It had the power of
reviewing the sentences of inferiour jurisdictiotis; and^
by that means, produced a consistency and even a uni-
formity of decision, in the judiciary system of the
nation. ^

From circumstances, however, which were the natu-
ral consequences of the introduction and progress of the
feudal s)^tem in .'England, this court began and conti-
nued to make ambitious and unnecessarv encroachments
on the inferiour jurisdictions. Soon after the conquest^
^oo, a complete separation of the ecclesiastical from the
temporal courts took place. The bishop no longer sat as a
judge in the court of the county ; nor the arch-deacoii in
that of the hundred. From the moment ef this separation,
^ the clergy were zealous, and they were successful, in
extending their own jurisdiction, and invading that of the
subordinate temporal tribunals. % By the gradual and
strong operation of these causes and circumstances, the
county courts, in particular, dwindled into a state of
insignificance^' their power was, at length, exercised
•Bly on matters of an inconsiderable value ; ^and the

^ Miliar. 31«. w W. 324; 325. % Id. 331.

LECTURES ON LAW. 211

greatest part of causes, civil, criminal, and fiscal, were
drawn into the vortex of the aula regis, oi^ into that of
the ecclesiastical courts. ^

"4. • .

So far as these changes related to the aula regis, the
consequence of them was, that this court, at first admi-
rably accommodated to the arrangements of the juridi-
cal system then existing in vigour, became, afterwards,
defective, unwieldy, and inconvenient. It followed the
king, wherever the political state of the kingdom requi-
red his presence. A court, thus ambulatory, was incon-
sistent with the leisure and deliberation, which are
necessary for judges m forming their decisions ; and it
was still more incompatible with the interest of the par-
ties, who, with their witnesses, were obliged to travel
about from place to place, before they could obtain a
final determination of their suits. "^ Besides, the great
increase of judicial business, which now crowded into
the aula regis, rendered the proper despatch of that
business an object altogether unattainable : from this
cause, therefore, as well as from the other, the admini-
stration of justice became tedious, burthensome, and
expensive. »

The remedies for these grievances seem to have been
natural and easy — ^to establish the aula regis as a station-
ary court^ — and to remand a great proportion of the -
original causes to those tribunals, which were best fitted,
in the first instance, to decide them. , These remedies,
however, though easy and natural, were not applied.
The county jurisdictions had ceased to be objects of
&vour at court : and the splendour of a retinue, com-

y Millar. 326. 331. ^ Id.42t 422.

J12 LECTURES ON LAW. «

posed of the officers of the judicial as well as the execu-
tive department, was a gratification too fascinating to
be easily relinquished.

One of the remedies, indeed, it was found necessary
to adopt in part ; and the remedy, even in that part, was
obtained with difficulty, and was soon abridged by inge-
nious and favourite fictions of law. When magna charta
was demanded of King John^ one of the articles inserted
in the important instrument was — ^^ that common pleaa
should no longer foUpw the court of the king, but should
be held in some certain and appropriated place." When
we see this regulation forming a part of that great trans-
action between the king and the nation, we may be fully
satisfied, that it was much wished for, but could not be
easily obtained. In consequence of this regulation, a
court of comSoion pleas, detached from the aula regis,
was erected, and was appointed, for the future, to have
a fixed and permanent residence. But though the court
of common pleas obtained, in this manner, a separate
establishment, and was held by separate judges, yet it
was deemed inferiour in rank to the aula regis held by
the grand justiciary, and in which the king still continued
to sit sometimes in person ; and, for this reason, was
considered as subject to its 'decisions of review. *

There is much reason to believe, that the other reme-
dy, so natural and easy, for lessening or removing the
inconveniences, wjhich arose from the crowd of business
in the aula regis — ^that of reinstating the inferiour juris-
dictions in their original degi-ee of respectability — ^was,
by no means, suffered to escape the attention of those,

» MiUar. 424.

i

XECTURES ON LAW. 213

who obtained the great charter, Onfc of the articles of
their demand was—** that the king should promise to
appoint justiciariea, constables, sheriffs, and bailiffs of
such as knew the law of the land, and were well disposed
to observe it."** With this demand the king literally
complied, and engaged to app6int men only of such
characters. ^ Had this engagement continued and been
fulfilled, the subordinate, and, in particular, the county .
establishments for the administration of justice — for to
the county establishments I wish to. direct your particu-
lar attention — ^would have gradually regained, as they
gradually lost, their original dignity and ioiportance.
The uniform and uninterrupted appointment of judges,
intelligent, upright, and independent — men, who, in
the language of magna charta, ** knew and would observe
the law of the land" — ^would, without any farther or
more explicit provision, have been amply sufficient to
have attracted and secured the confidence of suit6rs9
and, by a necessary consequence, to recover and retain
the usefulness and the respectability of the courts. This
engagement, however, was neither continued nor fulfill-
ed. In the instrument confirmed by Henry the third,
this, among many other important regulations of the
magna charta of John, was unfortunately omitted. The
county establishments, from that period to the present
moment, have been despised or disregarded in England;
and other establishnients, less natural and less conTeni«
ent to the nation, have been substituted in their place.
To the view of those other establishments we now
proceed.

4 -,

When we consider' the administration of justice in
theory, it seems very susceptible of an arrangement in

* Bl. 8. art. 42. c Id. x^, art. 45.

514 LECTURES ON LAW»

three great divisions. Prosecutions for crimes are easily-
distinguished from suits concerning property: and, in
suits concerning property, the demands of government
are as easily distinguished from demands of individuals*
On the foundation of this specious theory, a triple divi-
sion was made, in England, of the unwieldy jurisdiction
accumulated in the aula regis. We have already seen^
that ** qommon pleas," or demands of property made by
individuals, were detached from that court by an article
of the great charter. In the reign of Edward the firsts
a farther division was made of its powers ; the court of
exchequer was erected to decide in matters regarding the
publick revenue. 7'he cognizance of crimes was the only
division now remaining to the original court. To an
alteration, so material, in its jurisdiction and power, an
alteration, equally material, in its establishment and name
was added, and the aula regis now subsided into the court
of king's bench. This court is still, in its constitutioti,
ambulatory ; and may attend the person of the king in
whatever part of the kingdom he shall be. The process
of this court is in the king's name, and must be returned
ijcfore him " ubicunque fuerimus in Anglia." **

We now see, clearly and fully, the origin of the three
great courts of common law, which, during a series of
centuries, have been the ornaments of Westminster hall ;
and we now see, clearly and fully, the distinct principles,
on which those three courts were separately erected. To
the king^s bench was allotted the jurisdiction of offences
and crimes : decisions concerning the property of indivi-
■ duals — meum an(J tuum, as our books express it — ^were
committed to the court of^ common pleaa : the enforced

d 5. Bl. Com. 41.

LECTURES ON LAW.. 215

collection of the publick revenue was intrusted to the
court of exchequer. .

I conclude my inquiries respecting the juridical history
of England, at a period, at which, others generally begia
theirs.

To the jurists of Pennsylvania, this investigation,
though minute, concerning the distribution of the powers
and the jurisdiction of the aula regis, is deeply interest-
ing ; nay, it is of indispensable necessity ; for, by the
constitution and laws of Pennsylvania, a jurisdiction,
similar to the. combined jurisdiction of that court, is re-
united in the supreme court of this commoiiwealth. But
along with that reunion, the measures proper for avoiding
its incony^niences have been adopted. The supreme
court is stationary; and juridical establishments, highly
respectable, are formed in every county. These, in due -
course, will become the objects pf particular attention.

By the historical deduction which we have made, we
are now properly prepared to examine,, by a particular
survey, the judicial departments of the United States and
this commonwealth ; and. to . estimate, with correctness,
the numerous jurisdictions, supreme and subordinate, of
which those departments are composed, and upon the
qualities and proportions of which, the declining or the
flourishing state of those departments, and of every
thing connected with those departments, must ultimately
depend.

The judicial power of the national government ex-
tends— to all cases, in law or equity, arising under the
eon9titution,the laws, or the treaties of the United States ;

216 LECTURES ON LAW*

to all casea^ affecting publick minister? and consuls f to aU
, cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; to contro-
versies, to which the United States shall be a party ; to
controversies between two or more states ; between a
state and citizens of toother state ; between citizens of
different states ; between citizens of the same state, claim-
ing lai^s under grants* of different states ; and between, a
^tate, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens,
or ^ subjects. ^

Besides the supreme court established by the consti-
tution, the judicial power of the United States is, at pre-
sent, vested in circuit and in district courts. «

The supreme court has original jurisflictic^ in all
cases, to which a, state shall be party, and in all cases
Meeting publick ministers and consuls. In all the other
cases before mentioned, it has appellate jurisdiction, both
as to law and fact ; but with such exceptions, and under
such regulations, as are made by congress.*^ It consists
of a chief justice and five associate justices ; and holds

e Cons, tr, S. art 3. s. 2.

f The supreme court of the United States, in tht case of Chis-
holm V. the state of Georgia (2 Dall. 419.) decided, that under ihc
clause of the constitution which extends the judicial power of the
United States to controversies " between a state and citizens of ano-
ther state," a state was liable, as defendant^ t© a suit commenced
by such citizens. But by the eleventh article of the amendments to
the constitution, it is declared that « the judicial power of the United
States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or eqnii^,
commenced or prosecuted against one of the UnHed States by citi-
zens of another state, or by citizens or subjects of aoy fbr^gii state/'
Vide post. ch. 4. Md*

% Cons. U, S. Art. 3. s. 2. ' .

fi

LECTURES ON lAW* 217

annually two sessions at the seat of the national govern-
ment4 Oi^e session commences on the first Monday of
Februarys the oth^r, on the first Monday of August.
Four judges are a h quorum. *

The judges, both of the supreme and inferioui* courts,
hold their offices during good behaviour j and, at stated,
times, receive, for their services, a compensation, which
cannot be diminished during their continuance in offic^. i

The supreme court has poWcr tp issue wrfts of prohi-
bition to the district courts, when they proceed as courts
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; and wi^its of
mandamus, in cases warranted by the principles and
usages of law, to any courts appointed} or persons hold^
ing office, under the authority of the United States. ^

^ Laws. U. S. l.-cctiu 1. j9es8. c. SO. s. 1^ .

1 By an act of congress passed 29th April, 1802, the supXsm^ court
h to hold but obe session annually, commencing on tlie first Monday
Sn February, Four of the justices form a quorum. If four shall not
attend within ten days after the time appointed for the commence-
ment of the session, the business shall be continued to the next stated
session ; but any one or more of the justices may make all necessary
orders preparatory to the hearing, trial, or decision of any case re-
• turned to or depending in the court. The August session is abolish-
ed ; but one of the justices is directed to attend at the seat of govern-
ment on the first Monday of August annually, and has power td
make all necessary orders in any case returned to or depending in
the court, preparatory to the hearing, triat, or decision. Writs and
process may be returnable on the first Monday in August, in the
same manner as to the February session, and may also bear teste on
that day, as though a session of the court was holden. Lstws» U. S^
7, con. L sess. c 31. s. 1. 2. JEd.

j Cons. U. S. ait. 3. s. 1.

^ Laws. U. S. 1. con. 1. bess. c 30. s^ 13.

TOL. II. F f .

218 t£CTVR£S OK LAIV^.

Final judgments and decrees of a circuit coUrt, where
the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand dollars, may
be reexamined and reversed or affirmed in the supreme
court, ^ upon a writ of errour, ««

If the validity of a statute or treaty of the United
States, or of an' authority exercised under them, be drawn
in question, in any suit in the highest court of law or
equity of a state, in which a decision of the suit could be
had ; and a decision is against their validity — ;if the vali-
dity of a statute of any state, or of an authority exercised
under that state, is, in any suit in such court, drawn in
question, as repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States ; and a decision is in favour
of their validity— if the construction of any clause of the
constitution, of a treaty, of a statute of the United Statea^
or of a commission held under them, is, in any suit in
such court, drawn in qilestion ; and a decision is against
the title, right, privilege, or exemption, specially set up
1 Laws. U. S. ;l. con. 1. sess. c. 20. s. 23.

«n See the case of Wiscart et al. v. Dauchy, (3. Dall. 321.- 327) in
which the supn^me court of the United States decided, that causes
cf admiralty and maritime jurisdiction and suits in equity, as well as
other civil actions, could be removed from the circuit into the su-
preme court by writ of errour only, and not by appeal ; and that
therefore nothing was removed for reexamination but the law. Byv
an act of congress since, passed (7. con. 2; sess. c. 93. s. 2.) it is
provided that an appeal shall be allowed to the supreme court of the ,
United States from final judgments or decrees rendered in the circuit
court in cases of equity, of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and
of prize or no prize ; where the matter in dispute, exclasive of costs,
shall exceed the Value of two thousand dollars. No new evidence,
however, can be received in the tupremc court on the hearing of the
appeal, except in admiralty and prize causes. JE^

LECTURES ON LAW. S19

«r claimed by either party under such clause— a final
judgment or decree, in all these cases,* may, upon a writ
of errour, be reexamined and affirmed or reversed in the
supreme court of the United States. "

The United States are divided into circuits and dis«
tricts.

The districts are, in number, sixteen t one consists
of that part of the state tof Massachussets, which lies
easterly of the state of New Hampshire, and is called
Maine district : one consists of the state of New Hamp-
^Mre, and is called New Hampshire district: one ^con-
sists of the remaining part of the state of Massachussetts,
and is called M assachussetts district : one consists of the
state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, and
13 called Rhode Island district : one consists of the state
of Connecticut, and is called Connecticut district : one
consists of the state of New York, and is called New
York district: one consists of the state of New Jersey,
and is called New Jersey district : one consists of the
state of Pennsylvania, and is called Pennsylvania dis-
trict : one consists of the state of Delaware, and is
called Delaware district: one consists of the state of
Maryland, and is called Maryland district : one consists
of the state of Virginia, and is called Virginia district:
one consists of the state of North-Carolina, and is called
North Carolina district: one consists of the state of
South Carolina, and is called South Carolina district:
one consists of the State of Georgia, and is called Georgia
district : ° one consists of the state of Vermont, and i»

^ Laws. U. S. 1. con. 1. sess. c 20. s. 35.
* Id. 1. con. 1. sess. c. 30. s. 3.

820 LECTURES ON LAMT.

called Vermont district :P one consists of Kentucky, and
is called Kentuckj' district.

These districts { except Maine and Kentucky, are di-
vided into three circuits, the eastern, the middle, and the
southern. The eastern circuit consists of the districts
of iitvr Hampshire, Massachussetts, Rhode Island, Con-
necticut, New York, and Vermotit : the middle circuit
consists of the districts of New Jeirsey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia : the southern circuit
consists of the districts of North Carolina, South Caro-
lina, and Georgia. **

In each district, there is a district court, consisting
of one judge, "^ who resides in the district| and holds
four sessions annually, *

In each district of the three circuits, two courts, cal-
led circuit courts, are annually held. These courts con-
sist of any two justices of the supreme court, and of the
district judge of the district, any two of whom constitute
a quorum. "*

p Laws U. S. 1. con. 3. sess. c 12. s. 2.
^ Id. 1. con. lb sefts. c, 20. s. 4. >' IcLs. 3,

8 For the alterations which have been made in the distribution
of the United States into districts and circuits, and in the sessions
of the district courts, the number of which now varies in different
districts, see Laws U. S. 3. cong. 1. sess. c. 54. Z.cong. 1. sess. c. 31-
7p cong. 2, sess. c. 60. £d,

*■ Laws U. S. 1. con. 1. sess. c. 20. s. 4.

« The circuit courts aow consist of one of the judges of the su-
preme court and the judge of the district ; either of whom may hold
the court. In cases removed from a district to a circuit court by

i

LECTURES ON LAW, 421

Over crimes and oflFences, committed upon the high
seas, or within the respective districts, and cognizable
under the authority of the United States, the district
courts have jurisdiction ; provided the punishment ex-
ceed not ^whipping with thirty stripes, a fine of one hun-
dred dollars, or imprisonment for six months. From
Jurisdiction over such crimes or oiFences, the courts of
the several states are excluded. ^

The district courts have, in the first instance, exclu-^
aive cognizance of all causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, *^ and of seizures under laws of impost,
navigation, or trade ; provided the seizures be made on
the high seas^ or within their respettive districts, on
waters navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more
tons burthen. But the right of a common law remedy
18 saved to suitors in all cases, in which the common

appstal or writ of errour, judgment shall be rendered in conformity
to the opinion of the judge of the supreme court. In other ca^es, if
the opinions of the judges shall b^ opposed, tlie question respecting
which they disagree shall, during the same term, at the request of
either party or their counsel, be stated under the direction of the
judges, and certified to the supreme court, by whom it shall be final-
ly decided ; and their decision and order shall be remitted to the
circuit court, and be then entered of record, and shall have effect
according tethe nature of the decision or order. No punishment
shall, in any case, be inflicted, when the judges are divided in opi-
nion on the question respecting it — ^Laws U. S. 7. cong. 1. sess. c. 31.
s. 4. 5. 6. Ed.

V Laws U. S. 1. con. l. sess. c» 20. s. 9.

^ Every district court in the United States possesses all the
powers of a court of admiralty, whether considered as an instance
w as a prize court. 3. Dall. 16. . E^,

S2!^ lECTURBS ON LAW*

law is competent to give it. ^ Of se^izures on Isind, or^
on waters, other than as above described, and of all
suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred under the laws
of the United States, the district courts have, likewiset
in the first instance, exclusive cognizance*

Of all causes, in which an alien sues for a tort only
in violation of the law of nations or of a treaty of tfat^
United States, the district courts have cognizance, con-
current, as the case may be^ with the circuit cQurts, or
with t&e courts of the several states. They have a simi«
lar concurrent cognizance of all suits at common law, in
which the United States sue, and the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, amounts to the value js>£ one hundred
dollars. Th€y have, exclusively of the courts of the
several states, jurisdiction of all suits against consulsor
vice consuls, except for offences above the descriptioa
before mentioned. ^

*

The circuit courts have concurrent jurisdiction wkh
the district courts of the crimes and offences cognizable
in the latter, and they have exclusive cognizance of all
other crimes and offences cognizable under the authority
of the United States, except where provision is or shall
be otherwise made. .

They have, concurrent with the dourts of the several

statts, original cognizance of ^ civil suits at common

law or in equity, where the matter in dispute, exclusive

of costs, exceeds the yaliie of five hundred dollars, and

^here the United States are plaintiffs, or an alien is a

#
* Laws U. S. 1. con. t seas. c. 3a s. 9.

yldibM.

\

• L£CTUIl£S ON LAW. 223

party, or a suit is between a citizen of the state, in which
it is brought, and a citizen of another state.*

The final decrees and judgments of a district court
in civil actions, where the matter in dispute, exclusive
of costs, exceeds the value of fifty dollars, may, upon. 1

a writ of errour, be reexamined, and reversed or affirm- 1

«d in' a circuit court, holden in the same district. » ' \

From the foregoing detail, which was necessary,
though not entertaining, we find, that as yet, only three
species of courts are known to the constitution and laws
of the United States ; and that even to one of those,
species no appropriate order of judges is assigned ; for
the judges of the circuit courts are drawn together, in
opposite directions, from the supreme court and the dis-
trict. This very uncommon establishment may become
the subject of some future remarks.

I proceed to take a view of the courts of Pennsyl-

vania*

#

X Laws U. S. 1. COD. 1. sess. c 30. s. 11.
a Id. s. 32.

^ By the 31st section of the same act, an apiieal to the circuit
court was allowed from final decrees in a district court in causes of
udmiralty and maritime j^^adictUmy where the matter in dispute
exceeded the value of three hundred dollars exclusive of costs. By
a later act {T, cong. 3. sess. c. 93. s. 2.) it is provided that firom all
Jinal judgments or decrees in any of the district courts of the United
States, an appeal, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,
shall exceed the value of fifty doOarS) shall be allowed to the circuit
court jEor the saii^e (Ejistrict Md^

V

224 LtCTUKES ON LAW. ^ «

The first, which attracts our notice, is " the high
court of errours and appeals." This court was constituted
by a late law. A court of the same name and of much
the same kind was known in Pennsylvania, before the
present constitution* This court, as at present established,
consists of the judges of the supreme court, of the pre-
sidents of the courts of common pleas, and of three
other persons, appointed during good behaviour, and
removable in the same manner as the judges of the su-
preme court. Five judges form a quorum. It is em-
powered to decide on writs of errour from the supreme
court, and on appeals from the register's courts in the
several counties of the commonwealth, c

The supreme court has been long known in Penn*
sylvania, though not always by the same name. By
consulting the records of our laws, we shall find ** an
act for erecting a provincial court," passed as early as the
year one thousand six hundred and eighty four. It had
power to try titles, of land, to try all causes civil and
critninal, both in law and equity, not determinable in the
county courts, and to decide appeals from inferiour juris-
dictions.^ This law was continued, according to a
general regulation in force at that time, from one ses-
sion of the general assembly to another, till the year one
thousand six hundred and ninety. From that year to
the year one thousand seven hundred, there is a chasm
in the laws of Pennsylvania. To those, who are con-
versant in the general history of the province, the reasons
of this chasm are well known.

c 3. Laws Penn. 97. s. 17. .
d R. O. book A. p. 7U \

L£CTiril£S ON LAW. 225

In the year one thousahd seven hundred and one^ a
new act was passed for establishing a provincial court.
By this act, the court had jurisdiction in equity by bill
and answer, such as is necessary in courts of chancery,
and proper in these parts. * This law was, in the year
one thousand seven hundred and five, repealed by the
queen in counciL

In the year one thousand seven hundred and fifteen^
another law was passed '* for erecting a supreme or pro-,
vincial court of law and equity."^ This experienced
the fate of the former — it was repealed by the king in
council in the year one thousand seven hundred and
nineteen*

I may be permitted to remark, by the way, that such
•was the fate of many of the most valuable laws, which
were passed in the early periods of Pennsylvania. They
•well deserve the attention of every one, who wishes to
become a master of her juridical history. They disclose,
in the most striking as well as the most authentick man-
ner, how soon and how strongly a spirit of jealousy began
to operate in the administration of the colonies. ^

Will it be believed, that the benefit of the great palla-
dium of liberty — ^the writ of habeas corpus — was refused
to be imparted to the plantations ? Will it be believed,
that the name of Somers — a name, in Europe, so dear
to liberty — stands first in the list of those, by whom the
tyrannick refusal was given? These things ought not to
be believed without the most irrefragable testimony v if

* R. O. book A. vol. 1. p. 110. ^ R. O. book A. vol. 2. p, IO9,

VOL, II. G g

226 LECTURES ON LAW.

the most irrefragable testimony of their authenticity can
be produced, these things ought to be both believed and
published. They show how dangerous it is for freedom
to depend upon her best friends for z. foreign support.

In December one thousand six hundred and ninety
five, the committee of plantations wrote, to the governour
and council of Massachussetts, a letter on the subject
of a variety of laws passed by the legislature of that
colony. Many of those laws were favourable to liberty;
and, among others of this spirit, there was one concern-
ing the writ of habeas corpus. With regard to this law,
the committee expressed themselves in the following
manner, truly remarkable. " Whereas by the act for
securing the liberty of the subject, and preventing illegal
imprisonments, the writ of habeas corpus is required to
be granted, in like manner as is appointed by the statute
of 31. Charles II. in England; which privilege has not
as yet been granted in any of his majesty's plantations :
it was not thought fit in his majesty's absence, that
the said act should be continued in force ^ and, there-
fore, the same hath been repealed.'* My Lord Somers
signed the letter ! ^
I return to the supreme court of this commonwealth*

By a law, npiade in the year one thousand seven hun-
dred and twenty two, and which is still in force, a court
of record >yas established, and styled the supreme court
of Pennsylvania. To that court power is given to issue
writaof^eas corpus, certiorari, and writs of errour.
and all r^Haedial and other w^rits and process, in pursu-

e ChaL 74.

UtCTURES ON LAW, 227

aace of the powers given to it. ^ Its judges are authori-
sed to minister justice to all persons, and exercise the
jurisdictions and powers granted by law, as fully and
amply as the justices of the court of king's bench, com-
mon pleas, and exchequer, at Westminster, or any of
them, can do. * It was made a doubt, whether, under
the authority of this law, the supreme court could exer-
cis^e original jurisdiction, and take cognizance of causes
at their commencement. A law, passed a few years
ago,' gives it expressly original jurisdiction in enumerated
cases, i

m

I

By the constitution of Pennsylvania, ^ the jurisdiction
of the supreme court shall extend over the state ; and
the judges of it shall, by virtue of their ofEces, be jus-
tices of oyer and terminer and general gaol delivery in
the several counties.

Besides the powers formerly and usually exercised by
it, it has now the powers of a court of chancery so far as
relates to the perpetuating of testimony, the obtaining of
evidence from places not within the state, and the care
of the persons and estates of those, who are non compotes
mentis.^

The judges of this court hold their offices during good
behaviour ; but^ for any reasonable cause, which shall
not be ground of impeachment, the governour may
remove any of them, on the address of two thirds of

h 1. Laws Penn. 179. s. 11. '» Id. 180. s. 13.

J 2. Laws Penn. 472. s. 4. 5. * Art. 5. s. 3.

1 Cons. Penn. art 5. s. 6.

228 LECTURES, ON LAW.

each branch of the legislature. '^ They shall, at stated
times, receive, for their services, an adequate conipeit-
sation, to be fixed by law ; which shall not be diminished
during their continuance in office.

By a law passed during the present year, the supreme
court is established in the same manner, and with the
same powers, as it has been heretofore established by
the laws of the state, consistently with the provisions
contained in the constitution. " It holds three terms in
the year ; one, on the first Monday in January; ano-
ther, on the first Monday in April ; and the third, on
the first Monday in° September, p

a

By the constitution of Pennsylvania,"^ a court of com*
mon pleas, an orphans' court, a register's court, and a
court of quarter sessions of the peace are established for
each county. Before I consider tliese jurisdictions sepa-
rately, it will be proper to premise some observations,
equally applicable to them all.

Among the dispositions and arrangements of judicial
power, the institution of counties has long made a con-
spicuous figure. The division of England into counties
^s generally ascribed to the legislative genius of the great

^ Cons. Penn. art 5. s, 2. " 3, Laws Penn. 92. s. 1. <> KL ibid.

P The terms of the supreme court now commcHce on the first
Mondays in March, September, and December. March term con-
tinues three weeks ; September term, two weeks ; and December
term four weeks.' The first and last days of each term are return
days. 5. Laws Penn, 166. Ed.

^ Art. 5. s. !•

' LECTURES ON LAW, 229

Alfred* His genius was unquestionably equal to the

task ; but part of it was performed before his reign. ' A

country so large as some of the kingdoms of the heptar^

chy could not, according to the policy and the exigencies

of the times, enjoy the administration of justice without

a division into subordinate districts. Accordingly, in

the old laws, before the union of England under £gbert,

vre find the mention of sheriffs and shires. ^ But though

Alfred did not commence, he undoubtedly extended the

county establishments of England. Before his reign,

the Dknes had made extensive settlements in the northern

parts of the kingdom. During some years after the

commencement of his reign, they confined him within

very narrow limits, and ravaged the rest according to

their savage pleasure. At last, however, this great man,

whom so many embarrassments surrounded, and who

surmounted so many embarrassments, obliged those,

who had viewed him with supercilious contempt, to

acknowledge him as their superiour and lord. After his

conquest over the Danes, he then settled the boundaries

of the counties through every part of England. In the

southern parts of the kingdom, they were, probably,

laid out according to the formei>limits. In the northern

parts, which were less fertile and more uncultivated, they

were laid out on a larger scale. Hence, to this day,

we find the largest counties in the north of England.

In every county, justice was administered to the*
inhabitants near their places of residence, without the
delay and expense of resorting to Westminster.

SuUiv. 245.

230 LECTURES OK LAW.

Each of the counties or shires had, as we are told by
Seldqn, their two chief go vernours for distributive jus-
tice : of these, the sheriff was the more ancient and
worthy; being, in certain cases, aided by the power of
the county* His office was partly judicial and partly
ministerial. In the last character, he was the king's ser-
vant to execute his writs : in the first, he regulated the
courts of justice within the county. The other officer was
the coroner, whose duty it was to inquire of homicide
upon the view, to seize escheats and forfeitures, to re-
ceive appeals of felony, and to keep the rolls of •crimi-
nal proceedings. He was chosen, as was the sheriff,
from among the men of the first rank in the county.

In those times, the county court was surrounded with
numerous and respectable attendants : it was considered
as the great theatre, on which the justice and the power of
the county were displayed. ' In those times> justice was
administered principally in the county establishments ;
and it was only in cases of uncommon magnitude or
difficulty, that recourse was had to that judicial tribunal,
whose jurisdiction extended over the whole kingdom.
In those times, the p]:x)ceedings and decisions of the
courts were simple and unembar^assed — an advantage,
as a learned writer says, « which always attends the in-
fancy of laws — an advantage, as I will venture to say,
which always attends their perfection. Such have been,
and such will be the true character and native conse-

» Bac. on Gov. 40, 41.

t Forum plebeix justitix, et theatrum comitivx potestatis. Spel.
Gloss. V. comitatus,

» 4. Bl. Com. 407.

k

f-

LECTURES ON LAW. 231

quences of county establishments, properly instituted
and properly organized.

Let us now trace their origin and their progress in
Pennsylvania.

In the second session of her legislature, it was en-
acted, that " all actions of debt, account, slander, and
trespass, shall be first tried by the court of the county,
in which the cause of action arises." ^ In a subsequent
session, it was constituted a court of equity as well as
of law. ^ Soon afterwards the sphere of the county ju-
risdictions was enlarged. It was enacted, that trials of
titles of lands, actions of debt, account, and slander, and
all actions civil or criminal whatever (excepting treason,
murder, manslaughter, and other enormous crimes)
shall be first heard, and determined in the proper coun-
ties by the respective justices; and that the county courts
ishall be held quarterly, and oftener, if there be occa-

sion. *

These institutions fell at the chasm of legislation,
which I have already mentioned ; but their spirit was
afterwards revived, continued, and invigorated. They
received, it is true, some checks, similar to those, which
were experienced by the supreme court. In the year
one thousand seven hundred and fourteen, an act was
passed for establishing the several courts of common
pleas within the province. ^ It naet its fate at the same
time and in the same manner as the law for establishing
the supreme court.

V R. O. Book A* p. 33. wldLp. ro,

, «. 14 p» «4« y U. Td. 3. pb 113.

232 LECTURES ON LAW^

By a subsequent law^ more fortunate, a court of record,
styled the county court of common pleas, was established
in every county, with power to hear and determine all
pleas and causes, civil, personal, real, and mixed, ac-
cording to the laws and constitutions of the province. *
Here appears a plain separation of the civil from the
criminal jurisdiction, both of which were, before this
time, vested in the county courts. The criminal juris-
diction was, by the same law, transferred to a court in-
BtiUited at the same time, * and styled ^^ the general quar-
ter sessions of the peace and gaol delivery.'- ^

By the constitution,^ the judges of the courts of
common pleas shall hold their offices during good be-
haviour.

I am next to consider the establishment and the juris-
diction of orphans' courts in Pennsylvania. These are
institutions pf the last importance to the welfare of the
commonwealth. .

Among the ancients, those who studied and practised
the sciences of. jurisprudence and government with the
greatest success, were convinced, and, by their conduct
showed their conviction, that the fate of states depends
on the education of youth.

History, experience, and philosophy combine in de-
claring— ^that the best and most happy of countries is
that country, which is the most enlightened.

* 1. Laws Peon. 183. s. 21.
» See R. O. Book A. vol. 3. p. 9a
^1. LawsPenn. p. 176.S.3. <Art5.s. 2^

LECTURES ON LAW* 283

" It was a leading principle with our ancestors," says
Isocrates in his oration on reforming the government of
AthenS) ^'.not to limit the education of the citizens to any
particular period of life. Great pains were employed
upon them during their youth ; and, as they advanced
to the years of maturity, they were watched with an at-
tention still more sedulous than before. Their manners
were an object of such high concern, that the Areopa-
gus seemed instituted with no other view but to preserve
them." ^ It was the business of this court to appoint tu-
tors and governours for the youth ; and to take care that
they were educated in a manner corresponding to their

situation and circumstances. ^

*

A similar degree of watchfulness and assiduity was
bestowed upon education, in other parts of Greece.
£paminondas, we are told, in the last year of his life,
said, heard, beheld, and performed the very same things,
as at the age in which he received the first principles of
his education. ^

Nothing, indeed, can be of greater importance, than to
conduct our children in the same manner, in which we
ought to conduct ourselves.

" Custom," says my Lord Bacon, " is the principal
magistrate of man's life. But custom is certainly most
perfect, when it^beginneth in young years. This we call
education ; which, in effect, is but an early custom. But
if the force of custom, simple and segregate, be great -,
the force of custom, copulate and conjoined and coUe-

d Gil. Lys. & Isoc. 4S7. « i. Pot Ant 104.,

^ Mont Sp. L. b. 4* c 4.
VOL. II. H h

X

234 LECTURES ON LAW.

giate, is far greater. For there, example teacheth, com-
pany comforteth, emulation quickeneth, glory raiseth.
Certainly the great multiplication of virtues upon human
nature resteth upon societies well ordained and disci-
plined." «

Things are sometimes best displayed by the side of
their contraries. It has been the benign aim of patriot
legislators to disseminate knowledge : it has been the
infernal wish of despots and the minions of despots to
extinguish it. The political principles of Mr. Hobbes
are well known. Such an abhorrence he contracted for
popular government, and the principles of freedom, that
he was anxious to see both extirpated from the face of
the earth. In order to obtain this consummation, in his
perverted judgment so devoutly to be wished, he recom-
mends it to princes to destroy the Greek and Latin
authors. " By reading them," says he, " men have, under
a false show of liberty, acquired a habit of favouring
tumults, and of licentiously controlling the conduct of
their sovereigns." ^ In France, during a late reign, a
minister was heard to say — " I will put an end to all
schools ;" and another is said to have declared — " I am
tired with these publications ; if I continue ten y^ars ,
longer in office, I am determined that no books, except
the court calender, shall be printed in Paris." * But in
France, that late reign is now passed.

The same savage and tyrannick maxims have, in
former times, been avowed in America. But those times
ar« now also passed. It will not, however, be unuseful

8 3. Ld. Bac. 357. 358. h Lev. P. 2. c. 21. 1. Shaft. Char. 88.
i Fr. Rev. 266.

LECTURES ON LAW. 235

to turn our eyes back upon them ; and, with the mingled
emotions of disdain and conscious joy, to trace the stri-
king contrast between the views of government in a past,
and those in the present age. , .

In the reign of Charles the second, the lords of the

committee of plantations transmitted to Virginia a series

©f inquiries concerning the condition of the colony.

Among the answers returned by Sir William Berkeley,

who was then its governour, we find the following one,

too extraordinary to be passed without particular notice.

*' I thank God, there are no free schools, nor printing ;

and, I hope, we shall not have, these hundred yejars. For

learning has brought disobedience, and heresy, and sects

into the world ; and printiDg has divulged them and libels

against the best government: God keep us from both!"J

By the court of Charles, this prayer was received mo8.t

graciously ; and, agreeably to its principle, a succeeding

governour was ordered "to allow no person to use a

|)rinting press on any occasion whatsoever."

Very different were the principles, which animated the
genius of the immortal Alfred. He considered learning
and the sciences as the glory and the felicity of his reign.
He founded and endowed schools : difficult as the task
was in'that unenlightened age, he provided those schools
with proper instructors. Still farther to diffuse a taste
for knowledge, and to transmit its blessings to posterity,
he made a law, obliging all freeholders, possessing two ,
hides of land or upwards, te send their sons to school,
and give them a liberal education. By his own example
«-^for he was the most accomplished scholar of his age-^

i Chal. 328. i^ Id. S45.

236 LECTURES ON LAW*

by his powerful recommendations of learning — for he
made it the great road to preferment — ^he introduced
among his people the most ardent pursuits after intellec-
tual acquirements. The old bewailed their unhappiness
in being ignorant ; some, at a very advanced age, applied
themselves to study ; and all took care to procure proper
instruction for their children, and their other young
relations. *

According to the theory of Plato " and the institutions
of Lycurgus," the care and education of children were
taken entirely out of the hands of their parents. The
propriety of this regulation I will not, at present, examine.
Suffice it to say, that the laws ought to give every possi-
ble encouragement and assistance to the education of
children ; but particularly of those, who are unfortunate-
ly deprived of their parents.

We now see the reasons and the importance of esta-
blishing orphans* courts. The first object of their juris-
diction is the education of orphans : their property is the
second.

So early as the second session of the legislature of
Pennsylvania, orphans' courts were established in every
county to inspect the estates, usage, and employment of
orphans ; " that care," says the law, " may be taken for
those, that are not able to take care for themselves^" ®
Their education is. more immediately the object of a sub-
sequent law, which was made in the same session. ** "That
poor as well as rich may be instructed in commendable

* 2. Henry 356. » 4 Anac 341. n Id. 1«3.

0 R.O.Book.Ap.34. P.Id.p.46.
LECTURES OH LAW. 337

learning," it was enacted, ^' that all persons having children,
and the guardians or trustees of orphans, shall cause them
to be instructed in reading and writing ; and to be taught
some useful trade or profession ; that the poor may work
to live, and the rich, if they become poor, may not want."

By a law still in force , orphans' courts appoint guar-
dians over such orphans as the court shall judge incapa-
ble, according to the rules of the common law, of choosing
guardians for themselves ; admit orphans, of the proper
age, to choose their own guardians ; and direct the bind-
ing of orphans to be apprentices to trades or other employ-
ments. But it is provided, that no orphan shall be bound
an apprentice to any person, or be placed under the
guardianship of any person, whose religious persuasion
is different from that of the orphan's parents.^

You will probably be surprised, that the regulations
known to our laws for the education of orphans here
close. You have reason for your surprise. Those regu-
lations are, indeed, defective. To parental affection the
care of education may, in most instances, be safely
intrusted. But in no other principle ought the laws to
repose an implicit confidence, concerning an object of
the greatest magnitude, immediately to orphans, and
eventually to the publick* In Sparta, one of the most
respectable members of the state was placed at the head
of all the children. Would not some similar institution
be eligible with regard to ' such of them as are deprived
. of their parents?

The jurisdiction of the orphans' courts, as it respects
the property of orphans, will be discussed with more pro-

4 t Laws. Penn. lOt s. 7. 103. s. 12.

s

258 LECTURES ON LAW*

priety, wheii we come to the second great division of the
law— that, which relates to things.

By the constitution of Pennsylvania, ' the judges of
the court of common pleas of each county compose its
orphans' court,

I proceed to the consideration of the register's court.

In England, the probate of wills and the granting of
letters of administration belong to the jurisdiction of the
ecclesiastical courts. In Pennsylvania, this jurisdiction
is turned into a very different channel.

In the first session of the legislature of Pennsylvania^
a registry was established for wills, for lexers of adminis*
tration, and for the names of guardians and executors. '

A law passed in the year one thousand seven hundred
and«five directed, that an officer, called register general^
should be appointed for the probate of wills, and granting
letters of administration. He was directed to keep his
office at Philadelphia, and to constitute a deputy in each
county of the province. The deputies were empowered
to take probates and grant letters of administration, as
amply as the register general himself could do. A will
proved, or letters of administration granted, in any one
county, superceded the necessity of another probate or
other letters of administration in any other county. '

It

Wheii objections were made, or caveats entered against
the proving of any will, or granting letters of adminis-

rArt5.s.r. • R.O.Book.A.p. 18.

^ 1. Laws. Peon. 56. s. 8.

LECTURES ai^ LAW, 239

tration ; and when there was occasion to take the final
accounts of executors or administrators, or to make dis-
tribution of decedents' estates, the register general and
his deputies were respectively obliged to call to their
assistance two or more of the justices of the court of
common pleas, who w^re empowered and required to
give their assistance, accordingly, to do all judicial acts
concerning the matters before mentioned. This was the ^
register's court. **

The office of register general is now abolished ; and,
by the constitution, a register's office for the probate of
wills and granting letters of administration shall be kept
in each county. ^

The register of wills, together with the judges of the
court of common pleas, or any two of them, compose the
register's court, w

The court of quarter sessions of the peace is the last
of those courts, which, by the constitution of Pennsylva-
nia, form the juridical establishment for every county in
the commonwealth.

In England, the general or quarter sessions of the
peace is a court of record held, in every county, once in
every quarter of the year. It is held before two or more
justices of the peace, for the execution of that authority,
which is conferred on them by the commission of the
peace, and a great variety of acts of parliament.

« R. O. book A. vol. 2, p. 43. v Cons. Penn. art 5. s. 11.

w Id. art 5. 8. 7.

240 LECTURES ON LAW.

By the statute of 34 Ed. III. c. 1. the coart of general
quarter sessions have authority to hear and determine
all felonies and trespasses M^hatever done in the county
in which they sit. But they seldom try any greater
offences than small felonies ; remitting crimes of a
heinous nature to the assizes, for a more publick aiid
solemn trial and decision. There are many offences,
which ought to be prosecuted in the quarter sessions,
as bel<Higing particiilarly to the jurisdiction of that court.
Of this kind are the smaller misdemeanors, not amount-
ing to felony ; such as offences relating, to the highways,
taverns, vagrants, and appi;entices.' It has co^izance
also of controversies relating to the settlement and pro-
vision for the poor, and orders for their removal. It
cannot try any newly created office, without an express
authority given by the statute, which creates it. ^

In Pennsylvania, the courts of quarter sessions of
the peace are formed upon the model, and exercise juris-
diction according to the practice of the courts of the same
denomination in England. In one important particular,
however, there is a very material difference between
them. The courts of quarter sessions in England are
composed of the justices of the peace, who hold their
commissions only during the pleasure of the crown: those
in Pennsylvania are composed of the judges of the court
of common pleas, who hold their commissions xduring
their good behaviour. ^

Thus much concerning the court of quarter ses-
sions.

* Wood. Ins. 499. 4. Bl Com. 368. r Coos. Pcnn. art 5. s. T. 3*

. '

LECTURES ON LAW. 241

In each county, and in such convenient districts aa
.«ire directed by law, the gorernour of Pennsylvanift
appoints a competent number of justices of the peace. *

To the common law, the conservation of the peace
has always been an object of the most particular atteib*
tion and regard. Long before the institution of justices
of the peace was known, many oflkers were, ex officio, or
by election, or by particular appointment, guardians of
the puUick tranquillity — conservatores pacis. ^

<
When quarrels suddenly arise — ^when violence is com*
mitted — when riots and tumults are likely to ensue, it is
vain to wait for the interposition of the ordinary courts
of justice. That cannot 'be obtained soon enough for
preventing or suppressing the disorders. It is highly
important, therefore, that metk of character and influence,
to whom, upon any emergency, application may be easily
made, should be invested with sufficient power to arrest
dHisorderly persons, to confine them, and to preserve or
restore the quiet of the country.

The peaccy in the most extensive sense of the term,
comprehends the whole of the criminal law. ^^ Against
€tic peace," all crimes are laid to be committed.
Whoever, therefore, had authority to take cognizance
of crimes was, from the nature of his office, considered
as a conservator of jthe peace. The king himself was sty-
led its great conservator through all his dominions. His
judges and his ministers of justice were also official
conservators of the peace. Others were conservators
by tenure or prescription* Others, again, were elected

s Cons. Penn, art 5. s. 10. - * MQUtf , 433.

VOL. II. I i

242 LECTURES ON LAW*

■

in the full county court, in pursuance of a writ directed
to the sheriff* Besides all these, extraordinary epnser*
vators of the peace were appointed by commission from
the king, as occasion required. They were to continue,
says my Lord Bacon, for the term of their lives, or at
the king^s pleasure. For this service, adds the same
great authority, choice was made of the best men of
calling in the county, and but few in the shire« They •
might bind any man to keep the peace, -and be of the
good behaviour; and they might send for the party, direct
ing their warrant to the sheriff or constable to arrest the
party and bring him before them*

»
This it was usual to do, when complaint was made,
upon oath, by smy one, that he stood in fear of another ;
or when the conservator himself saw the disposition of
any man inclined to a breach of the peace, or to- misbe-
have himself in some outrageous manner. In such cases^
the conservator might, by his own discretion, send for
auch a fellow, and, as he should see cause, oblige him
to find sureties for the peace, or for his good behaviour^
. If he refused to find them, a commitment to gaol would
be the unavoidable consequence.

Those, who were conservators of the peace by virtue
of their qifices, still retain the character and power:
thoj^e, who became so by election or appointment, are
superseded by the ji^stices of the peace. *»

Of tliia ins^titution, says my Lord Coke,*^ it i& such
a form of subordinate government for the tranquillity

b 4. Ld. Bac 59. 99. 1, Bl. Com. 349. ^ Rcev. 122.
^ 4v Ins. iro.

LECTURES ON. LAW« 243

jmd qui«t of thee realm, as no part of the chriatiaii world
liftth ; provided it be duly executed.

The power of the justices of the peace arises from
two different sources — ^their commission, and acts of par-
' liament, which have created the objects of their juris-
diction*

By his commission* every justice is appointed a con-
servator of the peace, and is vested with a separate power
to suppress riots and affrays, to take securities for the
peace or good behaviour; and for defect of sureties may
commit to the common gaol or house of correction. For
treason, felony, or breach of the peace, he may commit
even a feHow-justice<

>•

The powers, which, by acts of parliament, have been
conferred, from time to time, upon one, two, or more
justices of the peace, are accumulated to such a degree
as to form a jurisdiction of immense variety and impor-
tance. They are so many and so. great that, as Sir Wil-
liam Blackstone observes,' the country U greatly obliged
to any worthy magistrate, who, without sinister views of
his own, will engage in this, troublesome service. For
this reason, he is protected, by many statutes, in the
honest discharge of his office ; and, for any unintentional
errour in his practice, great indulgence is shown to him
in the courts of law. On the other hand, tyrannical
abuses of his . office are punished with the merited seve-
rity; and all persons, who recover a verdict against
him, for a. wilful or malicious injury, are entitled t«
double costs.

* Wood. Ins. 80. « 1. Bl. Com. 3if4.

244 LECTURES ON LAW.

In England, a justice of the peace holds bis office
only during the pleasure of the king : by the constitiition
of Pennsylvania, he holds it during his good behaviour*
He may be removed on conviction of misbehaviour in
office, or of any infamous crime, or on the address of
both houses of the legislature. ^

< • ^

The presidents of the courts of common pleas, within
their circuits, and the other judges, "vtrithin their several
counties, are justices of the peace, so far as relates to
criminal matters* ^

This distinction, suggested by the constitution, brings
into our view a very important branch of the power of a
justice of the peace. He possesses civil as w^U ds cri«*
minal jurisdiction in Pennsylvania, and decides concern^
ing property as well as concerning offences. This branch
of hb power deserves a. particular consideration*

The easy, the regular, and the expeditious adminis*
tration of justice has, in every good government, been
an object of particular attention and care. To the aU
tainment of an object so inteiesting, the distribution of
ythe juridical powers among convenient di^icts is highly
conducive. Such distribution, therefore, has, in tnany
states, been made with a degree of precision suited to
its importance. * Every citizen should be always under
the eye and under the proteaion of- the law and of. its
officers : each part of the juridical system should give
and receive reciprocally an impulse in the direction of
the whole.

^ Cons. Penn. art 5. s. la < Id. art. 5. s. 9.

V

LECttTRES 0» LAW. 245

In Athens, there %yas a grade of magistrates, who,
in the several districts, had jurisdiction of suits, when
the sum in controversy did not exceed ten drachms.
They had cognizance also of actions of assault and bat-
tery.^

Arbitrators likewise acted a very considerable part on
the juridical theatre of Athens. There were two kinds
of them. One kind consisted of those, who were drawn
by lot to determine controversies, in their own tribe,
concerning demands, which exceeded ten drachms in
value. Their sentence was not final; for if either of the
contending parties thought himself injured by it, he might
appeal, for redress, to a superiour court of justice. * Ar-
bitrators of the other kind were such as the parties them-
selves chose to determine the controversy between them*
From the determination of these arbitrators, the law
permitted no appeal. But they took an oath to give their
sentence without partiality. J

We have seen and traced the importance of the coun«
ty establishments. But counties are too extensive, for
their inhabitants to meet on every- occasion* Hence the
propriety of fnferiour divisions. .

Among the Saxons, there wms a magistrate called the
hundredary, who presided over that division of a ^hire
which wsis called a hundred. This magistrate was known
to the ancient Germans, as we find, in Tacitus, ^ an ex-
press reference made to his jurisdiction. The hundredary
was, in virtue of his office, empowered to appoint tbe

h GiL Lys. & Inc. 489. 1. Pot. Ant 123. ' 1. Pot Ant 132.
i 1. Pot Ant 133. ^ De mor. Ger. c 13.

d46> tXCTUREB ON LAW.

times and plates for the meetings of the hundred court;
to preside in those meetings ; and to carry the sentences
of the court into full execution. All the members withia
the hundred were originally members of the hundr^
court, and obliged, under severe penalties, to attend*
This, however, was discovered, by experience, to be
inconvenient; and, therefore, the court was new mq-
delled by a law of the gresM; Alfred. It was reduced to
the hundredary oi his bailiff, and twelve of the hundried;
and these twelve were sworn, neither to condemn the
ii^nocent, nor to acquit the guilty. It was a niixed court,
possessing both civil and criminal jurisdiction. ^ Many
petty causes came before it* Its proceedings were sim*
pie and summary : but if any one thought himself ag.-
grieved by its decision, he had the right of appeuling^
to a superiour tribunal. In this court also, sales of land,
and other important transactions between members of the
same hundred were published and confirmed.^

We have seen, that, in Pennsylvania, a very early-
attention was given to the respectable establishment
of county courts. In the same session, which was
the second after the settlement of the province, at-
tention was also given to districts more circumscribed.
It was enacted, that, in every precinct, three persons
should be chosen yearly as peace makers in that precinct.
That arbitrations might be as valid as the judgments of
courts, it was directed, that the parties should sign a re-*
ference of the matter in controversy to the peace makers
so chosen. This reference being ratified by the county
court, the award of the peace makers was as conclusive

^Bac 00. Gov, 42, 43. 2. Henry. 341. 342.

LECTURES ON LAW. 24/

as a judgment ; ahd was registered in court in the samo
manner as other judgments. ™

A farther regulation was made, also in the same ses-
sion, that speedy justice might be administered to the
poor, and in matters of small value. Debts under forty
shillings were ordered to ])e heard and determined, upon
sufficient evidence, by any two justices of the peace of
that county, in which the cause arose. The justices
were directed to report their judgment to the next coun-
ty court. This judgment, if approved by the court, was
to be recorded as good and binding. "^ Thus matters
stood with regard to small debts, before the chasm of
legislation, which has been repeatedly mentioned.

in the year one thousand seven hundred and five, a
law was made, empowering any one justice of the peace
to take cognizance of debts under the sum of forty shil-
lings. His judgiyient concerning them is declared to be
final and conclusive, and without appeal. ° This law was
repi6aled, but its principle was confirmed by another,
made ten years afterwards. * Such is the law still with
regard to debts under the sum of forty shilling^.

By a law made in the year one thousand seven hun-
dred and forty five, the jurisdiction of a single justice,
of the peace was extended, from sums under forty shiU
lings, to sutns not exceeding five pounds. But with re*
gardtothe exercise of the extended jurisdiction, two ver}'
salutary precautions are used. At the request of the
parties, referees, named by them and approved by the

m

R.O. Book A. p. 99. n Id. p. 34.

Id. voL 1. p. 154. V F 1. Laws Penn. 113, 114

248 LECTURES ON LAW,

justice^ shall hear and examine the cause* Upon their
return^ the justice shall g^ve judgment. In all cases,
except those determined on the return of referees, an
appeal lies from the judgment of the justice to the next
court of common pleas* Upon an appeal made, the jus-
tice shall send a transcript of his judgment to the jm"o«
tbonotary of the court, which has the appellatCv Jurisdic-
diction of the cause, q

Since the revolution,** the jurisdiction of a single jus-
tice is carried as high as debts not exceeding the sum
of ten pounds.*

q J. Laws Penn. 305. s. 1. 307. s. 7, 8. ^ 2. Laws Penn. 304.

s By a law passed in the fear one thousand seven hundred and
ikkiety foar (3. Laws Pens. 536.) the jurisdiction of the js^tices of
the peace was extended to actions of debt and other demands not
exceeding twenty pounds, under the regulations and exceptions
contained in the act of 1745. An appeal from the judgment of th^
justice to the court of common pleas was allowed only in cases,
where the debt or demand exceeded live pounds.* W^het party
might, before judgment given by the justice, elect to have the cause
tri^ in the court of common pleat, if the debt or demand exceeded
^en pounds.

By the present constitution of Pennsylvania (art 9. s.6.) it isde-
cl^f ed, " that trial by jury shall be as heretofore, and the right
thereof remain inviolate.** This constitution was adopted in the year
1790. At that time, the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, (before
w^om a trial by jury cannot be had) was confined to cases of debt
and contract not exceeding ten pounds; and even of such cases,
some, in which unliquidated damages were claimed, were excepted
out of theh" jurisdiction. In cases of torts, they possessed no juris-
diction whatever. The law of 1794 was early opposed, as repug*
nant to the above mentioned provision of the constitution, which,
it declared, « was excepted out of the general powers of govem-
menty" and should <* for ever remain inviolate,** (Art. 9. s. 26.) A

LECTURSS OK LAW. 249

Prom this historical deduction, it is natural to obser\^e,
that the civil jurisdiction of justices of the peace seems
to have been a growing favourite with the legislature of

respectable minority in the house of representatives protested against
the act, at the time it Was passed in that house, on this, among
other grounds. (Jour. H. Rep. 23d. Feb. 1793.) No judicial determi-
Bation on the subject has taken place. It was once brought before
the supreme court of the state ; but the law, whidi was temporary
expiring, the judges declined pronouncing a decision.

The attachment of the legislature, . however, to the jurisdiction
of the justices of the peace, has continued and increased. By a
law passed at their last session (March 1804.) which repeals all the
prior laws above mentioned, that jurii^iction has been extended to
an cases of debts, and of demands for damages on promises of
whatever kind, not exd^eding the amount of one hundred dollars.^
(9, 1«} But it is declared, that their jurisdiction shall not be con-
strued to. extend t^ actions of ejectment, of replevin, on real con-
tracts for the sale or conveyance of lands or tenements, or upon
promise of marriage, (s. 15.) And in cases of rent not exceeding one
hundred dollars, they have power to compel the landlord to de&lcate
0r set off the just account 6f the tenant out of the same ; but the
landlord' ma^ then wave farther proceedings before the justice, and
pursue the method of 'distress, in the usual manner, for the balance
so settled, (s. 12.)

If the demand does not exceed five doUkrs and thirty three cents,
the justice himself hears tbe parties, and gives judgment, which is
linal. If the demand is for a sum exceeding that amount, the case
shall) if both parties consent, be submitted to referees, whose
award shall be transmitted to the justice, and he shall enter judg-
ment on it, which shall be final and concluave, if for a sum not ex-
ceeding fifty three dollars, (s. 3.) If either of the parties retusfe to
refer, the justice 'may hear them and give judgment, (s. 4.)

If the cause is decided by the justice alone, and the*demand ex-
ceeds the sum of five dollars and thirty three cents, either party, if
dissatisfied with the judgment, may appeal to the court of common

VOL. ij. K k •

A

250 LECTURES .ON LAW*

Pennsylvania. It was introduced, at first, widi apparent
hesitation and reserve : it was confined to *sums under
forty shillings : it was intrusted to two magistrates, not
to one : the judgment even of two magistrates was not
binding till it was approved by the county court. The
same jurisdiction was afterwards intrusted to a sing^
magistrate, conclusively and without appeal. The juris-
diction of a single magistrate has been since ^extended
from two to five, and from five to ten pounds : with th^

pleas; as he may likewise do, if judgment is given on the award of
].eferees, and such award exceeds the sum of fifty three dollars-
(8. 4.) No appeal lies in the case of rent : but the remedy by re-
plevin is declared to remain as before the act passed, (s. 13.)

^ This act did not receive the sancdon of the gpremoar ; not
being returned by him, to the house in which it ot^;inated, withm
ten days after it was presoited to him, it became a law. Acts of a
similar nature passed by the two houses at the two prior sessions,
had been negatived by him, on account of their being contrary to
the above cited provi»on of the constitution (which* he declared to
be his decided opinion, and to be more and more confirmed by re-
flection) as well as of their dangerous and oppressive tendency.

From these circumstances, and those before stated in this note,
the question respecting the constitutionality of the late law must be
considered as at least doubtful. It is worthy of observation, too,
that the objections apply more forcibly to the late law, than to that
of 1794. For, bjr the former, no right is given to either party to
elect, before judgment given by the justice, to have the cause tried
by a jury in. the court of common pleas, as was given by the latter.

The justices of the peace 'also possess, by an act passed 1st
March, 1799, (4. Laws Penn. 351.) which was temporary, but has
been revived and made perpetual, jurisdiction over actions brought
for the recovery of damages for any trespass done to real gt per-
sonal property, whera ^ey do not exceed tweo^ dollars. Ed.

LECTURES ON LAW. 251

two precautions, indeed, of which I have already taken
notice.

It may be observed, and the observation certainly has
weight, that experience, the best test of things, must
unquestionably have witnessed in favour of this jurisdic-
tion; otherwise it would not, in this gradually progres.-
sive manner, have been intrusted and extended. But
4iie weight of this observation ought to be compared
^with that of another, which is found in the opposite
scale.

We hav^ seen who are to exercise this jurisdiction :
let us now see upon whom it is to be exercised—^" upon
the poorer sort of people,** says the law, " who are unable
to bear the expenses arising by the common method of
prosecution." ' Let us suppose it possible, that a magis-
trate, in the exercise of his final and conclusive jurisdic-
tion, may be guilty of gross partiality or wilful injustice j
how is redress to be ^obtained by the unhappy sufferer
under his injustice or partiality ? Only by a prosecution
against him. But the unhappy sufferer appeared or was
brought before him, only because he was unable to bear
the expense of a common prosecution. Would the pro-
secution of a magistrate, clothed with authority, and
heretofore answering before his associates in ofHce —
would such a prosecution be less expensive ? Would he,
who was unable to bear the former, be strengthened in
such a manner as to support the burthen of the latter?
That the oppressed have suffered in silence, is no proof
ythat the oppressed have not suffered.

^ 1. Laws Penn. 304. 305*

'*

253 LECTURES OK tAW^

Before the establishment of the present conatkuttofi^
this was, in Pennsylvania, a subject of well fQunded alarm.
One half, probably, of the personal proper^, which, in
this commonwealth, becomes, during the revolution of a
year, the subject of judicial decision, is withdrawn froxn
the trial by jury, and committed to the summary and
solitary determinations of the justices of the peace*
Before the establishment of the present constitution, the
single magistrates, on whom this jurisdiction was con-
ferred, were not appointed by any respectable and respon-
sible officer, nor chosen by any considerable part of the
community, or at stated and well known times : they were
elected in a comer, as occasion offered, or contrivance
planned. The causes, which came before a justice chosen,
and anxious to be again chosen, in thi^ manner, were
itrequently suits betweeen a party, On one side, who would
have a vote at his succeeding election, and a party, on the
other side, who would be entitled to no such vote. The
poor and friendless part of the community — ^those, who
were soonest ruined by oppression — ^those, who were least
able to struggle against it — ^wcre the part selected to be
delivered over, bound hand and foot, to magistrates pos-
sessing such powers, and possessing them by such means,
and in such a manner. Surely, this was a subject of
well founded alarm.

The cause of alarm is removed'by the salutary provi^
sions, which we find in the present constitution of the
commonwealth. The justices of the peace are appointed
by the govemour, who, by the citizens of the common-
wealth, is himself elected, and who, to the citizens of
the commonwiealth, is himself responsible. The justices
of the peace are appointed during good behaviour ; and
can no longer be seduced, by a dependent situation, to

LECTURES OH JLAW. 255

disgrace themselves and their offices by sinister adjudi-
cations. Farther; they are habitually controlled 'by the
judges of the court of common pleas. Those judges have,
within their respective counties, the like powers ivith the
judgeK <rf the supreme court, to issue writs of certiorari
U» the justices of the peace, and to cause their proceed-
ings to be brought before them, and the like right and
justice to be doije."

But though the cause of alarm be now removed, the
cause of considerate circumspection still subsists : for it
is still true, tha:t the property decided by justices of the
peace is property withdrawn from a trial by jury. The
constitution suggests, indeed, that those magistrates are
to exercise a civil jurisdictioB j but the terms, onVhich,
and the extent, to which that jurisdiction is t6 be exer-
cised, are l^ft, as is piroper, to be marked and ascertained
by the wisdom and the experience of the legislature.

Perhaps the distant view which I have taken of the
hundred courts, may not have been altogether imperti-
nent to the present subject. Perhaps it will not be im-
jpracticsdble, after some time^ to introduce them into Penn-
sylvania, modified, indeed, but with modifications not
destructive of their principle. Such a tribunal should
mot be considered as a fanciful alteration, or a wild expe-
riment ; it ought rather to be deemed a close adherence
to the wisdom of the ancient plan, concerted by the great
Alfred, and to the spirit of his excellent and venerable
institutions. To an object of this kind, the legislature is
fully competent ; for the constitution ^ empowers it to
establish courts from time to time.

tt Cons. Penn. art.5. s, 8. ^ Art 5. s. 1.

254 XECTUABB Oir LAW*

I have now made a tour through the..<:ourts of the
United States, and through a number of the couito of
Pennsylvania. Perhaps I youg^t here to make an apolog3r
for the degree of minuteness, with which I have surveyed
tind described tbem» Let me apologize by reciting 'an
incident, which I remember to have heard in my younger
years.

From the castle of Edinburgh, in Scotland, the pros-
pect is uncommonly rich, extensive, and diversified* A
young gentleman, bom and educated at no very consi«-
detable distance from it, set out on his travels through
Europe, with a view to notice attentively every thin^,
whid^h he should find most worthy of his remark* Wheti.
he was at Rome, the subject of exquisite prospects be-
came, one day, the topick of conversaticm in a company^
of literati, to whom he had been introduced* Among
others, that from the castle of Edinburgh was mentioned ;
and to our young traveller a reference was naturally made
for a minute description of its different parts ai^ beauties;
They expressed themselves happy in so fine an opportu-
nity of learning every particular concerning that, of which
vague and general accounts had so much excited their ad-
miration. With blushes, he was obliged to disclose the
fact— that though he had resided, from his birth, near an
object, which so well deserved to be known, yet he had
never bestowed upon it the least share of attention, and
was, therefore, totally unqualified to gratify the company
b/ describing it. A profound silence was observed. It
was not lost upon the young traveller. He returned
immediately to Scotland, and acquired the knowledge of
what was worthy to be known at home, before he went
farther abroad in search of what was remarkable in foreign
countries.

LECTURES ON LAW, ^55

The institutions of other nations and of other times
merit, most unquestionably, our perusal and our study.
The travels of a young Anaclwsis, in which the govern-
ments and laws-^of Sparta and of Athens are so beauti-
fully delineated, richly deserve to be read and admired.
But to us, the governments, and laws, and institutions
of the United States and •f Pennsylvania ought to be
the constant standard, with which we compare those of
every other country. How can we compare them with a
standard, which is unknown ?

Trusting, therefore, that the interesting nature of
the things which I describe will compensate for my
minuteness and for my many imperfections in describing
them, I proceed to give an account of some other juris-
dictions known to the constitution and laws of the
United States and of this commonwealth.

'•V

Circuit courts form a part, and a very valuable part,
of our juridical system in Pennsylvania. These are of
two kinds— courts of nisi prius, which try issues joined
in civil causes— courts of oyer and terminer and gene-
ral gaol delivery, which hear and determine criminal
causes.

The courts of nisi prius are derived from the supreme
court; and act as its auxiliaries in the exercise of its^
very important jurisdiction. They decide, in the several
counties, all questions of fact, which arise in civil causes
depending in the supreme court. They are called courts
of nisi prius from the following circumstance-^The
- causes commenced in the courts of Westminster Hall
are, by the course of those courts, appointed to be tried
at their bar, by a jury returned from the county, in

25% LSCTUftSS on I.AW«

which the cause of action arises. But in the writ, enjoin-
ing the attendance of the jurj^, there is this proviso — r
9iVi prius justitiarii ad ^assisas capiendas venerint-—
unless, before the day prefii^ed, the jodgesof assize come
into the county in question. This they do : the issue
joined in the cause is tried in the proper county : the
verdict is taken, and retumofi to the court above, on the
day when the jury would otherwise have been obliged to
appear and try it at bar. ^ By this means, much trouble
and expense are saved to the parties, the jury, and the
witnesses.^ By this wise arrangement, the investiga-
tion of the facts-^«t matter frequently of the greatest
consequence even in civil causes, is carried on in the
county, sometimes in the very neighbourhood, in wluch
the dispute arose ; while questions of law are left to
be considered by a court, which, from its permanent
situation, is better qualified for deciding points of difficult
ty and importance.

The courts of nisi prius are held between the terms
of the supreme court, at such times as the judges think
most convenient for the ^ people. '

w 4. Ld. Bac 64. x3.BLCom.59. 7 a Laws Penn. 92. s. 1.

* Courts of nisi prius are now held only in the county of Phila-
delphia. In the other counties of the state, they have been siq[>erSb-
ded by courts, styled ^< circuit courts," established by an act of
assembly passed in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety
nine. (4. Laws Penn. 362.)

The circuit courts are held by one or more of the justices of the
si^reme court, at such times and places as the justices ci that cour^
^^oint, having due r^ard to the amvenience of the peq[>le (s. 1.)
In most of the counties, they are held once, and sometimes twice
hi the year, at the discretion of the justices.

lECttTRES ON LAW« 857

' l( it is highly expedient and convenient, that cbrQ
actions should be tried in the.countv. iti nrhich the causes
of action arose; M is much more so, that crimitiad
prosecutions should be tried in the county, in which thte
t:rimes were committed. A crime can seldom be proved
in any other manner than by oral testimony. But of all
the modes of proof, that which requires the attendance
of tiHtnesses from a great distance, is necessarily the
most burthensome and expensive. In another view, too,
it is very important, that every crime should be tried and
every criminal should be punished near tiie {dace, wheiie
tike guilt was conttneted. One great design of punish-

Tkcf have no original Jurisdiction ; bnt have power to issue writs
of certk»ari, hsfaeas corpus, and all other remedial and other writs
sad lirocess, grantable by the justices of the supreme court by vir-
tue of their offices (except writs of errour, and certiorari after
judgments, orders, or decrees) ; and the writs and process so issued
are returnable in the circuit court Appeals also lie to the circuit
court in each county from the register's and orphans' courts of that
county, (f . 30

The circuit courts have power to give judgment, pass decrees*
toA awald execution, and generally exercise similar power in any
cause before them, and iii which jurisdiction is given to them, in
as ample a manner as if sitting in bank. They have power, though
not sitting as a court of oyer and terminer, to try any capital or
other criminal case removed into the circuit court, and to pronounce
judgment, and award execution, as fiilly as the supreme court may
da (s. 4.)

If either of the parties to any suit removed frcui the common
pleas, register's court, or oiphans' court is dissatisfied with the
decision of the circuit court oh any demurrer, special verdict, cai|B
Stated, point reserved on the trial, motion in arrest of judgment or
ftit a new trial, or to set aside a judgsaent, discontinttanGe, or non
pros, he may BppnXM tha supreme cimrt (s. 4.) £ti.

VOL. IK X.1
258 LECTURES ON LAW.

ment is to deter others from imitating the conduct^ for
which it is inflicted. This design is most eJSectually
accomplished, when the same persons, who. have seen
the law violated, are witnesses also of the dismal con-
sequences, by which its violation is unavoidaUy suc-
ceeded.

In England^ crimes are generally tried before judges,
who sit by virtue of two commissions from die crown.
One is a commission of oyer and terminer : the other
is a commission of general gaol delivery* The first is
directed to the judges of the circuits, and to many others
of the best account within the circuits, -as we are inform-
ed by my Lord Bacon. By this commission, they are
authorized to hear and determine all treasons, felonies
and misdemeanors. But this commission gives them
no power to proceed upon any other indictments than
those found before themselves. The second commission is'
directed only to the judges themselves, and the clerk of
the assize associate. This commission empowers them
to try and deliver every prisoner in the gaol, for whate,
ever offence he may have been committed, or before
whatever judges he may have been indicted : but, by
this commission, they have authorit}^ only over those wh©
ai*e prisoners in the gaoK "^

By the law of the land, says my Lord Coke,** diis
commission was instituted, that men might not be detain,
ed a long time in prison ; but might receive full and
speedy justice.

Commissions of oyer and terminer are either general,
or they are particular, in respect of the persons, of thie

a4,LdBac61. . ^4,Jds.168.

LECTURES ON LAW. 2.59

ciffencefls or of the places where the offences are com-
mitted. ^ Sometimes, upon urgvant occasions, the king
issues a special or extraordinary commission of oyer and
terminer and gaol delivery, confined to' those offences,
which demand immediate inquiry and punishment.
On these, the course of proceeding is the same as on
ordinary and general commissions* ^

The constitution of Pennsylvania declares, * that no
connmiftsion of oyer and terminer or gaol delivery shall
be issued. This power is expressly excepted out of , the
general powers of government. The powers granted,
in England, by those commissions, are, in this common-
wealth, placed much better for the security and advantage
of the citizens. The jud^s of the supreme court are, by.
virtue of their offices, justices of oyer and terminer and
general gaol delivery in the several counties of the
state. The judges of the court of common pleas, in
each county, are, in the same manner, justices of oyer
and terminer and general gaol delivery for the trial of
capital and other offences in such county* f

m
We have already seen that all those judges hold their
offices during their good behaviour. ' The judges, both
of the supreme and inferiour courts of the United States,
hold their offices by the . same tenure. The important
nature o£ this difference between the situation of those,
who exercise criminal jurisdiction in England, and that
of those, who exercise iti in the United States and in
Pennsylvania, was fully shown in a former lecture, «

<^ 4. Ins. 162. 163. ^ ^ BL Com. 267.

« Art 9. s. 15. 26. ^ Corns. Penn. art 5. s. 3. 5.
« Ante, vol 1. p. 463.

2tO UCTVRBS 9V t4LVr«

vAten 1 waa engaged in drawing a psmUel bet3(7Mm the
government of the United Statea wd that of Q9€^
Britain.

You have frequently heard of the dMtinetioa betir^A
IffMT and eqaity, of courtp o£ equity^ and of eqnilaUc.
jurisdiction and powera.

Though no court of equity aubsista sepatatidy ia the
United Statea or in Pennsylvania, yet thia ai^joct
demands your closest intention* It occii{nes an impiHP*
taat station in the science of bnr*

By Ai&atode, equity is thus defined-***^ the correc^oia
of that, in ndiich the law is defective^ hiy bring tsio gene*
raL" ^ In makii^ laws, it is imposstbk to apec^ or ta
foresee eirery case: it is, therefore, necesaaiy, ihat, m
interpreting them^ those oases should he excepted, 'whieh
the legislator himself, had he foreseen them, would have
specified and excepted. Such intei^etation, however
ought to be made with the greatest cifcumspeotioii*
By indulging it rashly, the judges would bei^ifie the
arbiters, instead of being the ministers of tl|e laws. It
is not to be used, unless where the atrotige^ aod moat;
convincing reasons appear for using it. A, striing rea9M
for using it is drawn from the spirit of the law* or thQ
motive which prevailed on the legialatmre t^ ,make it^
When equity is taken in tbis sen^e, every cpi«rt of l$iw
is also a court of equity* M%en equity is taken in. ^a
senae— 4mdf applied to the interpr^tatioii ^f l^w, this is
its genuine meaning^— <-it is an expression synonimous to
true and sound construction. ^

LJBCTURBfi OH LAW* 361

Tefins, and the rjelative poattions of tenns, are fre<«
qo^itly too apt to mislead us. When we find a court
of law and a court of equity placed in contradistinction
to each other, how natural ia it to conclude, that the
fanner decides without equity, and that the latter decides
widiout law. Such a conclusion, however, is greatly
erroneous.

It has, indeed, hten said, concerning a court of equi-
4y, that it determines by the spirit, and not by the letter
of a rule. But ought not this to be said concerning a
court of law likewise ? Is not each equally bound-— does
not each profess itself to be equally bound— to explain
lbs law according to the intention of those, who made it i
Im the interpretation of laws, whether strictly or liberally,
there is not a single maxim, which is not adopted, }n
the samci manner, and with the same force, by both
courts. Hitherto, then, we find no difference between
a court of law and a court of equity.

It has been supposed, that it is the peculiar and exclu-
sive business of a court of equity to taVe cognizance of
frauds, and accidents, and trusts. One kind of trusts,
indeed — ^a technical, a useless, and a mischieyous kind, as
I shall show in the proper place — A trust created by
the limitation of a second use — ^has been forced into
the courts of equity, by the narrowness of the courts of
law. But of other trusts, the courts of law take full and
unreserved cognizance; particularly the very important
and extensive trust of money received by one to the use
of anothei*. An action, fotinded on this trust, has often
been compared to a bill in equity, on account of its use*
ful and salutary influence. For accidents, too, remedy
is found in a court of law : for the loss of deeds ; for

262 LECTURES OH LAW.

mistakes in payments, receipts, and accounts ; for the
destru'ction of records ; and for a variety pf other con«
tingencies. For relief from other accidents, which might
be specified, application ^ a court of law, we own, is
vam ; but application to a court of equity is vain also*.-
With regat*d to frauds, they are as much the objecta.of
cognizaiiice and resentment in the courts of law, as they*
are in the courts of equity : a fraud in obtaining a devise
of lands is always sent out of chancery to be determi-
ned at law.^ Hitherto, again, we find no dififereuce be-
tween a f ourt of law and a court of equity.

A court of equity has been represented as bound by-
no precedents or rules, but as proceeding arbitrarily, ac--
cording to the sentiments of the chancellor, arising from
the circums-ances of every particular case. But, in truth,
precedents and rules govern as much in chancery as they
govern in courts of law. Decrees are often founded on
no other principle, than a reverence for a series of foi:mer
concurring determinations. Hitherto, still, again, we find
no difference between a court of equity and a coiut of
law. The rules of property, the rules of interpretation,
and the rules, of evidence are, iii both, the same. The
systems of jurisprudence in both are systems equally
laboured and artificial, and founded equally on the same
principles of justice and positive law.

Let it be observed farther, that the distinction between
law and equity, as administered in separate courts, is not
known at present, nor seems to have been known at any
former period, in any country, excepting England, and
those of her colonies, who, in this instance, have imitated

j a Bl. Com. 431.

LECTURES ON LAW. 263

the practice of England. Even in England, the aula
regis, anciently, as we haye seen, a court of supreme
jurisdiction over the whole ^cingdom, administered equal
justice, according to the rules of equity as well as of law.
In none of our very ancient authors, such as Glanvil,
Bracton, Fleta, and Britton, do we find the remotest-
reference or allusion to the equitable jurisdiction in the
court of chancery. When the aula regis, become un-«
wieldy and cumbersome, was divided into a number of
distinct courts, a court of equity, existing separately from
a court of law, did not, by any means, enter into the
original plan of partition. ^

Whence then the origin and progress of this distinct
and independent equitable jurisdiction, which, in £41-
gland, has become so very extensive and important? In
what material or essential points, does it differ from a
jurisdiction exercised according to the rules and prin-
ciples of law ? These questions merit full and satisfactory
answers. *

In very early times, the chancellor of England was
nothing more than an officer merely ministerial. He was
the king's secretary. In this character, he had the sole'
charge of writing the king's letters. In the same charac-
ter, he acquired the sole power of issuing the king's
writs. 1 These writs were necessary, not only to bring
the defendant into court, but also to give the court juris-
diction over the cause. For, soon after the conquest, it
became a general rule, that no plea could be held in the
king's court without the king's writ. °* As causes and
^ the.kinds of causes multiplied, the chancellor was more

^ 3. BL Com. 49. 1 Mfflar. 4Q9. <" 1. Reev. 66.

I

J

I

**

364 LECTURES OH LAW*

and more employed in issuing writs, and in framing new
writs, directed to the courts of common law, in order to '
empower them to giv^e remedy in cases, in which none
could before be obtained.

On this subject we find an early legislative provision. *
^^ When, in one case, a writ was found in the chancery ;
and, in a like case falling under the same right and
requiring the like remedy, no precedent of a writ could
be produced, the clerks in chanbery were directed to form
a new one. If they could not agree, it was ^djoifmed to
the next parliament, that a writ might be framed by the
consent of the learned in the law." This provision was
made^ *^ lest it should happen that the court of the ting
should be deficient in doing justice to the suitors." Here
we see the chancery fully established as the great oJltei$Ui
hrevium. These writs, however, were all intended to be
returnable in the courts of justice. At diis time^ the
chancery itself was not considered as a court : it is alwuya
mentioned as an ofiice merely. °

In the reign of Richard the second, the provision,
which we have just now read, was apjdied to a purpose,
unforeseen and unexpected. Uses of land— a species^
not of property, but of an artificial and mysterious clainoi
to the advantages of property, which I shall hereafter
consider minutely — ^beg^^ about that tkne, to be intro-
duced. The establishment of them was, to the clergy^ a
lucrative and a favourite object : for it would h«re eluded
the statutes of mortmain. To accomplish this object^
John WaUham, the bishop of Salisbury, add at that time
chancellor, by a strained inteipretation of the law^ devised

" St 13. ^w. ]. c. ^. o 1. RseVt 43.

^IiEGTUHES ON LAW. 265

the^ wrifof subpaena— the powerful instrurtient of chancery
jux^is^icUotir-'S^ .made it returnable before himself in
<;|ia9cery, in or^er.to oblige a feoffee to uses to account
£6r the profits of the land, ^ Successful in, assuming the
jurisdiction of one case, the chancellor afterwards extend-
ed it to others ; and, in the time of Edward the fourth,
tke procefs by subpsena was become the daily practice of
the Gourt. Such was the origin of the equitable jurisi^*
diction qI chancery^

. The description which we have given of courts of
equity tod courts pf law, and of equitable and legal juris-
dictions, is conformable to the (o-actice and proceedings
^ the court of chancery and of the courts of commoa
law in £])gland> £tt present, and during the last hundred
yseara^ or the greatest part of them. But thi& de&criptio^
ctanot^ with proprie;ly9 be applied to the practice and
pfoceeditiga of those courts at periods more remote : iu
those remote periods, a court pf ejquity was considered
and acted as possessing a poifer, altogether discretionary*
♦* Equity," says Mr. Selden, ^ " is a roguish thing. For
law we have a measuine < know what to trust to. Equity
is acoording to the ^nsdenee of him that is chapcf Uor ;
9BB^ as'tbat iS'lar^r or narro^vrier) so is equity. It isi.aU
«ifte as* if they 'Should make the standard of measure a
<^anceik)r'3 loot. What an uncertain measure would this
be ! One chancellor has a lopg foot : another, a short
iioot; athird, a^ indifferent foot. 'Tis the s^me thing
incbe chancefior's conscience." Similar, though not eXf^
praACedy perbiq^a, in a similar maimer, w^re the sentiments
of theprincipallawyers of, that ag^-^of jSpebnan, of Coke,

P Millar. 475. 6. BlCom. 51. , q Table talk,
vol, II. . Mm

266 " LECTURES OM LAW.

*

of Lambard, and even of the great Baeon,'' whfr himself
held the office of chancellor, and who, of sdl others, ap-
pears to have been the be$t qualified to undefvtand the
nature of that office. This, indeed, was in the infancy,
as it may be called, of the court of chancery, before ite
jurisdiction was settled, and when the chancellors, partly
from their ignorance of law, and partly from ambidoa
and lust of power, had arrogated te themselves sudi un-
limited authority, as has since been totally disclaimed, by
their successours.

In the remote periods, which we have mentioned,
while a court of equity acted and was considered as pos-
seasing powers altogether discretionary, the courts trf
law, on the oiher hand, acted upon principles, which were
both narrow and unjust.' If the judges of the courts of
^common law had been as liberal then as they have been
since, the court of chancery would never have swelled to
its present enormous bulk. ^^ I have always thoi^ht,"
€aid the very able and learned Judge,^ who3e opinion I
now quote, ^^«that formerly there was too confined a way
of thinking in the judges, of the courts of common law:;
and that eomrts of equity have risen, because the judges
have not properly applied the.principles of the common
law, but, being too narrowly governed by old cases aixl
maxims, have too much prevented the public^ from ha-
ving the benefit of that law." This contracted spirit, pre-
vailing, for a long time, in the courts of common law,
necessarily drove a multitude of suitors, into, a court of
equity for relief. The doors of this court were con^
stantly open to receive them.

*• Millar. ASf7. X Bl. Com. 433. » 3. Bl, Com. 433.

*

t Lord Chief Justice Wilmot % Wils. S5a

V

' LECTURES ^ON LAW. 267

I adduce an instance,, familiar and striking* A dou^
ble bond^-a bond, with a penalty containing the ^double
of the stun really due—- is an instrument peculiar, I be-
lieve, to England, and those countries which have adopt-
ed the laws of England. It was originally contrived to
evade those absurd constitutions, which interdicted the
receipt or payment of interest for the use of money
lent* Since interest could not be allowed by the law, as
it then stood, the penalty was, in the courts pf law, con-*
sidered as the real debt, when the debtor did not perform
his agreement at the time stipulated; and for the penalty,
Judgment was accordingly given. •In proportion as busi-
ness and trade became considerable and extended, the
necessity and the propriety of paying and receiving in-
terest became daily more apparent, and was allowed by
the law ; and, in th^ reign of Henry the eighth, it
was declared, by an act of parliament, that the debt or
loan itself was, " the just and true intent," for which
the obligation was given. One would naturally suppose,
that this legislative declaration would have been a suffi-
cient authority for the courts of law to alter the principle,
* on which their former judgments had been given. The
narrow minded judges of those times thougHt otherwise ;
and, adhering wilfully and technically to the letter of the
settled precedents, refused to /:onsider the payment of
principal, interest, and costs as a full satisfaction for the
bond. In the courts of equity, where a more liberal
spirit prevailed, the instrument, according to " its just
and true Intent," was considered as merely a isecurity
^or the money really due, and was discharged on its pay.
- xnent. But so pertinaciously, in this instance, did the
courts of law cling to their precedents, even so late as
the present century, that the parliament was obliged, at
length, to interpose, and to direct, that what had long

36A LECTVREe OV LAV*

been the practice in the courts of e<{uity, should^ in fu-
ture, be the' practice in the courts of law. °

We now see the causes of the progress^ which a (tis-
tinct and independent equitable julrisdiciionniade in Eo^
gland.

«

Id many instances, however, and, indeed, in the ge-
neral principles/ of their proceedings and adjudications,
the courts of law and equity have, for a century past^
gradually approximated to one another. A seiie^ of emi-
nent lawyers, who successively filled the cnSncellor's
chair, formed the system of equity into a regular science,
which, like the science of law, cannot be acquired with«
out the aids of study and experience* In the courts of
law, a series of lawyers, equally eminent, have, by de-
grees, embraced the enlarged and enlightened principles,
by which law as well as equity should be governed and
illustrated. In chancery, it is a maxim, that equity
follows the law. In the courts of law, a powerful reason
for adopting a principle or rule is the consideration, that
the principle or rule has been adopted in chancery. Each
jurisdiction^ as far as possible, follows the other, in the
best and most effectual measures for attaining the great
ends of certainty, peace,- and justice.' The suggestion,
indeed, of every bill in equity, in order to give jurist-
diction to the court, is still, that the complainant has no
remedy at the common law. But he who views the va-
riety and extent of the causes determined in chancery,
must be satisfied that this suggestion is now a mere fic-
tion, copied, indeed, from the realities of former times.

° 3. BL Cem. 435.

LECTURES ON LAW.

S69

We are now prepared to give an answer to the second
qaestion, which was proposed some time ago^^In what
material or essential points, does the jurisdiction of chan-
cery differ from a jurisdiction exercised according to the
rules and principles of the common law I
They differ not, as we have seen, in the rules of pro-
perty, of evidence", or of itjitdrpretation : they differ not
in the principles of justice or of positive law. Still,
however, they differ in some points very material, and^
nvhich ought to be known.

They differ with regard to the mode of proof. By
the rules of the common law, as a party cannot be a
witness in his own favour, so he cannot be obliged to
become a witness, orto feimish evidence, against himself.
But the views of equity, with regard to this subject, are
more extensive' and refined. If the defendant knows
the claim made upon him to be well founded, he ought
neither to conceal it, nor refuse to satisfy it. If he has
doi}e nothing improperly, he can sustain no loss by a can-
did declaration of what he has done. If his conduct
has been fraudulent, the fraud should receive no pro-
tection: but it receives protection, if it is suffered to be
concealed. For these reasons, when material facts rest
only in the knowledge of the party, a court of equity
examines him, on oath, with regard to the truth of the
transaction.

In mercantile transactions, this mode of discovery
is peculiarly reasonable and important. In such transac-
tions, the parties are generally at a distance from one
another: their contracts, therefore, cannot be made in
jthe presence of witnesses. Of such transactions, each

2^0 LECTURES OK LAW.

party keeps or ought to keep a regular diary or acdbont*
On the truth and accuracy of dvis account, the other par-
ty may naturally.be supposed to place a very considera-
ble degree of dependence.

As this mode of discovery is unknown to the courts ,
of law, equity has acquired a concurrent jurisdiction
with those courts in all matters of account. From the
sa^me source, it has acquired a jurisdiction in matters of
fraud, and judgments at law obtained by fraud or con-
cealment.

In the courts of common law, the trial is by a jury.
This trial requires, that the witnesses should give their
testimony viva voce^ and in open court. But in courts of
equity, the mode of trial is by administering interroga-
tories to the witnesses, and taking their depositions in
writing, wherever they may happen to reside. For this
reason, the chancery alone can take proofs by commission,
when, the witnesses are abroad, or about to go abroad,
or arc prevented by age or infirmity from attending. »

. When a contract has been made and broken, a court
of law only awards damages for the breach ; but a court
of equity will decree a specifick performance. It will
likewise set aside deeds, and order sales and conveyances
of lands. ^

These are the principal, though not the only points,
in which the jurisdiction of a court of equity differs
materially from that of the courts of common law. I
speak of those jurisdictions as considered under the as^

^ Millar, 482. 3. BL Cbm./43r.

LECTURES ON LAW, 271

pectSi under which they have been hitherto viewed.
There is a particular aspect, in which they have never,
so far as I know^ been viewed ; but to which I shall, bjr
and by, direct your, i^inute. attention.

In the mean time, it will be proper to consider a
question, which has employed the talents of the most
eminent writers on jurisprudence. Should the jurisdic-
tion according to equity, and the jurisdiction accord-
ing to law, be committed to the same court ? or should
they be divided between diiferent courts ?

My I^ord Bacon thinks that they should be divided :
my Lord Kaims thinks that they should be united. All
this is very natural. My Lord Bacon presided in a di-
vided, my Lord Kaims was a judge in a united jurisdic-
tion. Let us attend to their arguments : the arguments
of such consummate masters will suggest abundant mat-
ter of instruction, even if we cannot subscribe to them
implicitly, ^

The reason assigned by my Lord Bacon for preferring
the division of these jurisdictions between several courts
is, that if they are committed to the same court, the
distinction between them will soon be lost ; for that the
discretionary will soon draw along with it the legal
power. "^

My Lord Kaims admits, that, in the science of juris-
prudence,* it is- undoubtedly of great importance, that the
i>oundary between equity and common law be clearly
ascertained i because, otherwise, we shall in vain hope

w L Ld Bac. 353. Apl^. 45i

272 LSCTURES <Nr LAW«

for just decisions. A judge, adds he, who is uacetUtiik
whether the case belong to equkjr^r td connncm. law^
cannot have a clear conception whut jodgment ouglit to
' be pronounced. But, on the other hand, may it not' be
urged, that to divide, among different courts, thiags inti-
mately connected bears hard upon every man, who hasa
claim to prosecute ; because, before he bring his aotioti^
he must, at his peril, determine a point extremely me— ^
whether the case is to be governed by equity, or by com^
mon law ? Nor is the most profound knowledge always
sufficient to prevent inconveniences upon this fiiubjcM t
for, though he may be perfectly acquainted with hia,
own demand, he cannot certainly foresee the defence^
nor divine whether it will be a defence &t law or la
equity. Weighing these different arguments, the pre-
ponderancy seems, in his Opinion, to be ola the side 0f>a
united jurisdiction. The sole inconvenience of a uniteA
jurisdiction — ^that it tends to blend common law witii
equity — may admit a remedy by an institute, di^dngursl^
ing, with accuracy, their boundaries : but the incdfii^ei-
nience of a divided jurisdiction admits not any effectual
remedy. *

Both these great men agree in one* point — ^that th^
distintiion between common law and equity ought, by aH
means, to be preserved ; and one of them recommends
even an institute to distinguish their limits with acciHWy.
With the becoming deference to such high authority, it
may be worth while to ex£^mine, whether, in the fiiictua-
ting situation of men and business, an attempt to fet peri^
manently the line of division between law and equi^
would not be fruitless and impracti£dl)le. This line, I
am apt to believe, will be found to change necessarily ac*

» Prin. <Sf Eq. 49.

LECTURES ON LAW.

27S

carding to different circumstances— >the state of property
-—the improvement of the arts — ^the experience of the
judges — ^the refinemeidt of the people.

In rude ages, the first decisions of judges arose, pro*
bably, from their immediate feelings ; in other words,
from considerations of equity. In the course of their
business, many similar cases would supcessively occur :
upon these, similar decisions would naturally be given.
A number of precedents, thus introduced, would, from
the power of custom, acquire authority and respect.
General rules would gradually be formed ; and the utility
of establishing them would beqome an object of attention.
Those rules, however, upon a little further experience,
would be found, at some times, too narrow; at other
times, too broad. To adhere rigidly to them, at all
times, would be to commit injustice under the sanction
of law. To avoid an evil so alarming, it would be thought
advisable, upon extraordinaiy occasions, to recede from
general miaxims, and to decide, as originally, according
to the immediate sentiments of justice. In this manner,
the distinction between equity and strict law was, proba-
bly, introduced : the former comprehended the establish-
ed rules : the latter comprised their exceptions.

But when the exceptions became numerous, many of
them also would be found to be similar, and, consequent-
ly, to require a similar decision. Those similar decisions
would, in time, produce a new rule ; and this new rule
would, in its turn, give birth to new exceptions.

If this account of the matter is just — and it seems
to be natural — ^law and equity are in a state of conti-
nual progression ; one occupyinjg incessantly the ground,

VOL. II. Nn

274 LECTURES ON LAW.

which the other, in its advanceiaeiit, has left. The posts
now possessed by strict law were formerly possessed by
equity ; and the posts now possessed by equity will here«
after be possessed by strict law.

In this view of the subject«-«and it is an interesting
one— -equity may be well deemed the conductor of kiw
towards a state of refinement and perfection.

In this view of the subject, we can find no difficulty in
pronouncing, that every court of law ought also to be a
court of equity ; £or every institution should cobtaia in^ it
the seeds of its perfection, as well as of its preservation.

In this view of the subject, we shall find as little diffi-
culty in pronouncing, that every court of equity wiU
gradually become a court of law ^ for its decisioim, at
first discretionary, will gradually be directed by general
principles and rules. Thus, in England, the^ court of
chancery has gradually devested itself of its original and
.arbitrary character, and has approached to that of the
courts of common law. Thus^ again, in England, the
courts of common law, animaterd lately with the spirit of
improvement inspired by a liberal age, have enlarged
their powers of just decision, and have advanced within
the precincts of equity.

The particulars, in which they still differ, are, indeed,
of importance ; but I see no reason why the separate
powers of chancery, placed there very properly, indeed,
should be thought incommunicable to the courts of com*
monlaw*

, A power to compel discoyeries by a party may, with-
out any incongruity, be annexed to a common law juris-

in

L£CTUR£8 OK LAW. 275

V

diction. This, to a certain degree, has been already done
by a law of the United States. In the trial of actions at
law, the courts of the national gbvemment are authorized
to require the parties to produce books or writings in their
power, in cases, in which they might be compelled to
produce them by the orditiary rules of proceeding la
chancery. ^

The power of granting commissions to take, upon
interrogatories, the depositions of foreign, removing, or
infirm witnesses is fBtmiliar, in practice, to the courts both
of the United States and of Pennsylvania.

The power of compelling a speciiick performance is,
I apprehend, strictly and originally a power at the com-
jtion law. In some of its unpropitious eras, indeed^ the
exercise of thi» part of its authority has, in most cases,
fallen into disuse, and has not been revived, but anciently
it subsisted in its full force and vigour ; and, in one case,
it is supposed to subsist in its full force and vigour to
this day. I fortify my bpinion by instances of the fact.

Fines, or solemn agreements acknowledged and enter-
ed of record, are well known to be of very high antiquity
at the common law. It is generally, I believe, supposed,
that they took place only in pleas respecting land. But
the fact is unquestionably otherwise. Fines were executed
In other pleas. If either of the parties violated the agree-
ment, a suit upon it was commenced. When they both
appeared in court ; if they both acknowledged the writing
containing the agreement ; or if the agreement was stated
to be such by the justices, before whom it was taken, and

y Laws U. S. 1. cong. 1. sess. c. 20. s. IS,
LSCTURXS Ofr X«AW»

this vaa testified by their record ; then the psarty, who ,
had broken it, was in the king's mercy» and was attached;
till he gave good security to perform the c<MiKord In,
future — either the specifick thing agreed on, if that was.
possible ; or otherwise, in some instances, an equivalent.''
Can a power to adjudge a specifick performance be ^-
pressed more unequivocally or more strongly? This
instance is referred to a period so ancient as the reign
of Henry the second.

In the 'reign of Edward the first, we find.that, in some
cases, land could be recovered in a writ of covenant ;
and in such cases, it was a real action : in other cases,
damages only could be recovered ; and in such cases, it
was a personal action. The former writ of covenant
was generally that, on which fines.were levied. ^.Actions
of covenant for land occur likewise in the time of
Edward the second. It was held, that this action- was.
appropriated for the recovery of a fee simple or of m
term. **

In tracing this subject down.to the reign of Edward
the third, we find that a writ of covenant was that, upon
which fines were most commonly levied. But, by this
time, the writ of covenant was usually brought upon a
supposed transaction. The writ of covenant, in this
instance, had the effect of actually transferring the land;
and thus produced a specifick effect. "" Such, with regard
to fines, continues to be the practice to the present
day.

» l.Rccv. 110. * Id. 4r7. «► 3.Reev.S3. 147. « Id. Xrx

LICTUR£S ON LAW. 277

I think I have now proved, that the power to adjudge
« specifick performance is strictly and originally a power
at common law*

The power to setaside deeds, and to order sales and
conveyances of land, can be considered only as branches
of the power to compel a specifick performance.

In all the views which we have hitherto taken of this
important part of jurisprudence, we find no reason to
eoncltide, that a court of chancery would bestow any
improvement of essential importance, on the juridical
system of the United States, or of this , common-
wealth*

There is, however, another view, in which this sub-
ject ought to be considered. In that other view, if I
mistake not, the establishment of a court of chancery
will be found a matter of great moment both to the Uni-
ted States and to Pennsylvania.

Military power has too long governed in the affairs
of men : influence of a kind more peaceful and benign
is, we hope, about to assume its place. We trust that,
in future, men, instead of knowing and treating one
another as enemies, and as engaged in enterprises
mutually destructive, will know and treat one another
as friends, and as jointly operating in plans and systems
for promoting the prosperity, the virtue, and the felici^
of the human race.

Deeds of arms, we fondly anticipate, will not be the
themes of future songs. The more delightful subjects

2fS L£CT0REi Off lAW.

of agriculture, of the arts, and of commerce will cmpioy
the efforts of genius the most sublime.

Commerce arresis our present attention. Its encou-
ragement is justly a favourite object with every govern-
ment, which is good and wise. The protection of
commerce, and of foreign merchants engaged in com-
merce, forms an article in the great charter of the liber-
ties of England. A regulation, so salutary and so
humane, deserves, as it has obtained, the warmest eulo-
gium of the eloquent Montesquieu. Upon this subject,,
his powers carried him away like a torrent, rapid arid
irresistible : my humbler aim is to glide along a smooth
and gentle stream.
The law merchant as well as the law maritime forms
a branch of the general law of nations. ' The inference
is natural, that mercantile as well as maritime transac-
tlons should be the object of a separate jurisdiction ;
and that we should see courts of commerce as well as
courts of admiralty. Things done upon the sea are
deemed worthy of peculiar cognizance : are things done
beyond the sea less entitled to peculiar notice ?

In the rude and barbarous times, which are past, and
which, we pray, may neyerreturn— in those times, above
alluded to, when nations were known to nations only by
feats of hostility ; even their hostile feats were subjected
to the cognizance of law, and were dignified with an
appropriate jurisdiction. The court of chivdlry, held
before the lord high constable and earl marshal of
England, had cognizance of contracts and deeds of arms
and of war out of the realm, and also of things Which

X£CTUR£S ON LAW, 279

touched war wtthin the realm.** When war was the
general trade, this court enjoyed a high degree of conse-
quence and reputation. My Lord Coke calls it " the
honourable court." • As cprnmerce comes in the place
of war, should not commercial come in the place of
military institutions ?

Even with regard to: commerce, we shall find, in
former ages, establishments expressly made and calcu-
lated for its protection and encouragement, in the man-
ner in which it was then carried on. This was chiefly
in markets and publick fairs, at which merchants attend-
ed personally with their Qierchandise. It was hot then
-usual to trust property to a great amount in the hands of
foreign correspondents.

. So early as the reign of Henry the third, we find the
delays, and what were called the solemnities, of pro-
ceedings dispensed with, where the plaintiff deserved
a particular respect or privilege ; as noble persons, or
Merchants, who were continually leaving the kingdom.*

■

Edward the first has been often and deservedly styled
the Englisli Justinian. In his reign we may expect to
find a proper attention paid to the interests of commerce.
Our expectation will not be disappointed. In his reign
the statute of merchants was made.

The pressing demands, which arise in the course of
mercantile transactions, rendered the delays and the
niceties of the law inconvenient, and sometimes fatal, to
the credit and fortunes of the merchants. This, it is

^ 4. ^8. 133, « 1. Reev 395. 396. 30a

280 LECTUEE8 ON LAW.

said, occasioned many to withdraw from the kingdom.
These, who remained, made application that some spee-
dy course might be appointed for recovering their debts
at the stipulated times of payment. In compliance with
their application, the following method of securing a
ready payment of their debts was provided by parliament.
The merchant was to bring his debtor before the magis*
trates specified in the law, to acknowledge the debt and
the time of payment. This recognisance was entered
on a roll. If the debtor did not make payment at the
time appointed, the magistrate, before whom the recog-
nisance was acknowledged, was, on the application of the
creditor, obliged immediately to cause the chattels and
devisable lands of the debtor to be sold, to the amount
of the debt, by the appraisement of honest men. The
money, if the property was sold, was paid instantly to
the creditor : if the property could not be sold, it was -
delivered to him according to the appraisement. If, from
partiality to the debtor, the appraisers set too high a
price upon the goods, they were themselves obliged to
take them at the price which they fixed, and to satisfy
the creditor for the money due to him.

Commerce continued to be patronised by the kings,
and encouraged by the legislature, of England. In the
twenty seventh year of Edward the third, was made the
famous statute of the staple, containing a most complete
code of regulations for commercial transactions at the
staple, or great mart, which was then established in cer-
tain places of England.

As this mart was intended, in its very institution, for
the resort .of foreign merchants, a mode, consonant to

f 1. Reev. 405.

LSCTURES ON LAW. 281

the ideas of foreigners, and fitted to the nature of mer^
cantile transactions, was adopted for administering jus-
tice. That disputes might be decided among them ac-
cording to their own conceptions, it was provided, that
none of the justices of the courts of Westminster Hall,
nor any other justices, if they came to the places where
the mart was, should interfere with the jurisdiction of
the mayor and constables of the staple. Within the town
where the mart was, those officers had* cognizance of
people and of things touching the mart. All merchants
coming to it, and their servants, were, in all things con-
cerning it, governed by the law merchant, and not by
the common law of the land, nor by the us^ge^ of cities,
or boroughs, or towns ; nor were they, concerning such
things, to implead or be impleaded before the magistrates
of such cities, boroughs, or towns. That the foreign
merchants might have reason to complain of no one, and
that no one might have reason to complain of them,
speedy justice was administered from day to day, and
from hour to hour.

That contracts made within the staple might be strict-
ly observed, and that payments might be punctually
made, a course similar to that of the statute merchant
was directed. The mayor of the staple was empowered
to take similar recognisances of debts ; and upon those re-
cognisances, similar proceedings were held. A recog-
nisance of this kind has obtained the name of a statute
staple. ^

It was directed that, in every staple town, the mayor
should be one well acquainted with the law merchant,

« 2. Reev. 71.
VOL. II. o o

282 . LfiCTUREg ON LAW.

that he might be qualified for the dispharge of such ata
important trust* ^

If we refer to the institutions of the ancient nati<Hi3 ;
we shall find that, aniong them too, tribunals have been
established for the decision of mercantile causes. Ma-
gistrates, called Mt9«)ufc^, had the jurisdiction of them
in Athens, i The pra^or peregrinus determined them
in Rome. ^ Even after the fall of the western empire,
the institution of courts for the trial of commercial suits
subsisted in many places : ^ and fairs and markets had
their peculiar jurisdictions assigned for the expeditious
determination of controversies that might arise in them.

The United States have the most extensive projects
of commerce before them. The variety of their climate,
the richness of tbeir soilf the number and value of their
productions furnish them with abundant materials to ex*
change for the manufactures and refined commodities of
Europe and of Asia. The genius of their governments
js favourable to trade, because it is favourable to equality
and industry, the only pillars, on which trade can be sup-
ported. The long and cumbrous list of duties and cus-
toms, which publick debts, the arts of finance^ and the
political views of government have introduced into every
country of Europe, is, in a great measure, unknown ia
their ports. They possess not, indeed, the advantages
of use and hid)itto form precedents for their transactions,
publick and private, with foreign nations, and with die
individuals of whom foreign nations are composed : but
to compensate for diis, they are disengaged from one

h 2. Reev. 75. | Bouch. The. Com. 134.

i Id. 13«. «( Id. 14a '

LECTURES ON LA^. . %BS

mconvenience, with which use and habit are naturally
accompanied— I mean that of confining the imagination,
and damping the spirit of vigorous and enlarged enter-
prise. In order to improve the opportunities, with which
they are favoured, asid to s^vail themselves, as they ought,
of the happy situation, in which they are placed^ they
should encottirage commence by a liberal system of met*
cantile jui^ispmdeaceA

h
These observations concerning the situation, the du«
ty, -and the interest of the United States, receive an
easy and a strong application to the situation, the duty,
and the inteis^st of Pennsylvania.

In other countries, as we have sieen^ where commerce
has been regarded as an object worthy of the publick
attention, jurisdictions have been established for the trial
and determination of commercial causes. In the United
States and in Pennsylvania, commercial causes are tried
in the same manner, by the same tribunals, at the same
expense, and with the same delay, as other controversies
relating to property. This must be often productive of
the most serious disadvantages.

Before the revolution, we were strangers, in a great
measure, to what is properly called foreign commerce.
The same system of commercial law pervaded Great Bri-
tain and her coloniess^ The rules, therefore, of admitting
ioreign testimony, and of authenticating foreign trans-
actions^ have been but lately th|^ objects of much consi-
deration. They have not been fixed with the clearness
and precision, which are now become requisite. But they
should, as soon as possible^ be ascertained, particulariKed>

S84 LECTURES OK LAW.

and rendered as easy as the precauti<^ns necessary to avoid
fraud will admit.

Great innovations should not be made : a wise and
well tempered system must owe much to experience.
But the foundations should be laid betimes. They
should be broad, and deep, and well compacted, that they
may be sufficient to support the magnificent structure,
which the present ahd future ages will build upon them.

The important ends, which may be attained by a court
of chancery formed and organized for commercial pur-
poses, now begin to appear in prospect before us. In
this view, the establishment of courts of chancery appears
to be of high importance to the United States in general,
and to the commonwealth of Pennsylvania in particular.

It will not, I am sure, be supposed, that I am un-
frieiidly to the trial by jury. I love — I admire it : but
my love and my admiration spring from proper princi-
ples : I love and I admire with reason on my side. Sacri-
lege would be offered to the venerable institution, by
profaning it to purposes, for which it was never intend-
ed. Let it be maintained in purity — ^let it be maintained
in vigour : but if it be so maintained, it must be main-
tained in that spirit, and in that application, foi which it
was formed, and to which it is so exquisitely adjusted*
Its genius should be encouraged and concentred : if it
be applied to foreign and unnatural objects, its strength
will soon dissolve and evaporate.

Let us attend to the nature of mercantile transactions*.
Accounts never were, by the course of the common law,
brought to trial before a jury. Toajury^ indeed, the

LECTURBS ON LAW. tS$

freneral question— K)ught the party to account— w£^8 sub-
mitted for its determination. But the adjustment of the
accounts was submitted to auditors, instead of being tried
by a jury. If, upon any article in account, the auditors
cannot agree; or, if agreeing, the parties are notsatis«
fied f then^ upon each point, so litigated, a separate and
distinct issue may be taken, and that issue must be tried
by a jury* In this manner, a hundred issues may be
joined in the same cause, and tried separately by as many
juries ; but the general statement of the disputed accounts
still remains before the auditors, and by them the general
result from the whole must be formed and ascertained*
This mode of liquidating accounts judicially at common
law, is obviously exposed to many disadvantages and
delays ; and, for this reason, the action of account has,
in a great measure, fallen into disuse. In England, the
parties in unsettled and litigated accounts have recourse
to chancery ; in Pennsylvania, to arbitrators, or to jurors
acting in th^ character of arbitrators*

%

The numerous embarrassments, which arise from
the want of a proper commercial forum, are well known
and severely felt both by the gentlemen of the bar, and
by the gentlemen of the exchange.

Impressed with these truths, t\^ committee who were
appointed to report a draught of a constitution for the
cot^sideratlon of the late convention of Pennsylvania, in-
.cluded, in their report, the plan of a chancery establish-^
ment. The convention thought it improper to fix that
establishment as a part of the constitution, but have given
ample powers to the legislature to adopt that or any simi-
lar one, and to model and alter it as the sage instructions
of time may direct.

380 LSCTUAES ON 'LAW.

Impressed vkh ihese truths^ whicli I liave both vit»
ii€ssed and experienced, I have thought it vay duty to
faring this 'important sjabject fuBy into your viev. View«
ed in a connnercial light, Pennsylvania^ axid pa^kularly
her metropolis, attracts, solicitous attention both on this
and on the other side of the AUantick. {^yery iriend ta
Fennsytvania, every friend tQ. her metropolis,, every en^
lightened friend to the interests of commerce, must ^i^
ardently to see her commercial establish«ients complete..
These observations apply to the IJnited States on a sqalet
still more extensive ; and, as applied to them, therefore^
acquire still an additional degree of importance.

With these observations I conclude, at last, my minute,
delineation — if drawn in a more masterly manner, it
would be interesting as well as minute — of the juridical
establishments of the United States and of Pennsylva*
nia.

\

CHAl»TER IV.

BfB

OF THE NATURE OF COURTS.

X HE next subjects of my re'itoadks are^ iht nature^
itttd the constituent pxrtn 6f couitfr.

That the judicial depsplment should be ittdepelident^
IS a principle, which, in a former part of my lectlires,^
I had an .opportunity of stating, explaining, and en-
forcing at large* In the review which we have now
t^ade of that department, as established i<i the United
{States and in lS%is commonwealth, we see what a strict
and uniform tegard has been paid to the practical obs^r^^
vance of this very important principle. To neither of
the constitutions is a judicial magistrate known,. who
holds his office by a tenure less secure or less respectable
than that of his own good behaviour.

All courts should be open. This is one of the rules,
wnich, by the constitution of Pennsylvania, ** is rendered

* Ante, vol 1. p. 405.

i» Art 9. s. 11.

288 LECTUKES ON LAW.

inviolable by the le^slature itself. It is a rule of~ the
highest moment.

The place of administering justice was originally at
the gates' of the cities — in other words, in the presence
of all the people. Such was the practice in the days of
Job. ^ By Moses also, of legislators the first and wisest,
the ^ame ancient custom is mentioned. ^ Homer speaks

of it as subsisting in the heroick ages. ^ In some coun-

«

tries, this simple and undisguised mode is still observed.^

Among the Saxons, as we are informed by Selden^
their courts, like the heliastick court at Athens, were, for
the most part, kept in the open air. ^

By the ancient Romans, trials were held in publick,
in the presence of the accused, and of all who wished
to hear them. This procedure was open and noble ;
says the writer^ who mentions it; it breathed Roman

magnanimity*

«

In France, too, as appears, we are told, from some
old manuscript law books, criminal processes wefe an-
ciently carried on in publick, and in a form not very dif*
f^rent from the publick judgments of the Romans.
" The witnesses," says Beaumanoir, one of the oldest
writers on the laws of France, ** ought to give their testi*
mony in open court." *

c Job xxix. 7. d Gea xxiii 18. « D. L 18. v. 497.

^ 1. Gog. Or. L. 28. s Bac. on Gov. 10. ^ Com. on Bee* g. 23.

^MQDt^.L.b.38.c.34.

LSCTURXS ON LAW. 289

AH trials, says Heccaria,-^ should be publick ; that
opinion, which is the best, or, perhaps, the only cement
of society, n^ay curb the authority of the powerful, and
the passions of the judge ; and that the people, inspired
-with courage, Ynay say, " We are not slavee ; we are
protected by the laws."

-^^ Let not," says my Lord Bacon, ^ in the same spirit
of sound sense, ^^ decrees issue in silence: let judges^
g^ve the reasons of their judgments: let them do this
openly ; that what is unrestrained in point of authority,
may- be circumscribed by a regard to character and
fame."

But why, it may be asked, are examples produced in
such numbers — nvhy do we cite authorities of so much
weight, in order to establish a principle, in itself so
extremely plain ? Is it not selfevident, that,' in a court
of justice, every one is entitled to a publick trial? Why,
then, refer us to instances, in Asia, in Greece, in Rome,
in France, of the enjoyment of a selfevident right i

Beca^use, in Asia, in Greece, in Rome, in France,
too, till very lately, the enjoyment of this selfevident
right has been lost. Liberty, indeed, says it is selfevi-
dent : but tyranny holds a contrary language ; and unfor-
tunately for the human race, the voice of tyranny has
been more loud and more powerful than the voice of
fr««doQi.

' To states as well as to individuals, the lesson is salu-
taiy*»-4et those, who stand, take heed lest they fall.

i C. 14* k 1* I'd. B^ 2SZ Aph. 38.

VOL. II. p p

290 LE€TUllSg OK LAW.

Asia is fallen, Greece is fallen, Rome is fallen, France
is fallen — I correct myself--*she rises. Let the other
monitory instances suggest caution,: I offer them not
to your imitation.

The slave who suffers, and the slave who dreads the
inquisition-— how would he exult to be able to say, ia
the irrevocable language of Pennsylvania, ^^ all court*
shall be open."

According to the rules of judicial architecture, a
system of courts should resemble a pyramid. Its base
should be broad and spacious : it should lessen as it
rises : its summit should be a single point. To express
myself without a metaphor — in every judicial depart-
ment, well arranged and well organized, there should
be a regular, pi^ogressive gradation of jurisdiction ; and
one supreme tribunal should superintend and govern all
the others.

An arrangement in this manner is proper for two
reasons. 1. The supreme tribunal produces and preserves
a uniformity of decision through the whole judicial
system. 2. It confines and it supports every inferiour
court within the limits of its just jurisdiction*

If no superintending tribunal of this nature were
established, different courts might adopt different and
even contradictory rules of decision ; and the distrac-
tions, springing from these different and contradictory-
rules, would be without remedy aQd without end. Op«
posite determinations of the same question, in differeat
courts, would be equally final and irreversible. But
when, from those opposite determinations, an appeal to

LECTTTltes OH LAW. S91

a jurisdiction superiour to both is provided, one of them
will receive a sentence of confirmation, the other, of
reversal. Upon future occasions, the determination
confirmed will be considered as an authority ; the deter-
mination reversed will be viewed as a beacon.

AmpUare jurisdictionem has been a principle avowed
by some judges : it is natural, and will operate where it
is not avowed. It will operate powerfully and irre-
sistibly among a number of coordinate and independent
jurisdiction s ; and, without a tribunal possessing a con-,
trol over all, the pernicious and interfering claims could
neither be checked nor adjusted* But a supreme court
prohibits the abuse, and protects the exercise, of every
inf«riour judiciary power.

In France, before the present revolution, the esta-
blisiunent of a number of parliaments or independent
tribunals produced, in the different provinces, a number
of incongruous and jarring decisions. This has been as-
signed, and with much apparent reason, as the great source
of that diversity of customs and laws, which prevailed,
to an uncommon degree, in the different parts of the
kingdom of France, in other respects so well com-
pacted*

In England, the principles and the rules of law are,
through the whole judiciary department, reduced to a
standard, uniform in an exemplary degree. In no
country, perhaps, does k stronger impression prevail of
the advantages resulting from stability in the admini-
stration of justice. But by an unwise inattention, to
say the least of it, to the inferiour establishments, the
base of the exquisitely proportioned edifice, erected by

Alfred, is natrowed and weideened ; and its beauty and
durability are consequently iftipaired.

In the United States and Pennsylvania— 4br here we
must take the two constitutions in a collected view<*«-«
fine and regular gradation appears, from the justices of
the peace in the commlonweakh, to the supreme court
of the national government. The justice of peace is, id
criminal matters, assisting to the court of quarter ses«
sions : in civil causes, his jurisdiction is subordinate to
the court of common pleas. The courts of common
pleas, and quarter sessions, and orphans' courts of each
county are subordinate to the supreme court, whose
jurisdiction extends over the commonwealth. The
supreme court is, by a late law, rendered subordinate
to the high court of errours and appeals. With regard
to the register's court, an exception is introduced by
the law just now mentioned. Though a coun^ jurist-
diction, it is not rendered subordinate to the supreme
court by an appeal : that revisionaiy process is directed
per salttim to the high court of errours and appeals.
From the highest court of a state, a writ of errotir
lies, in federal causes, to the supreme court of the
United States. In the national government, a writ of
errour lies from a district to a circuit court, and from a
circuit to the supreme court.

In controversies, to which the state or nation is a party,
the state or nation itself ought to be amenable before th&
judicial powers. This principle, dignified because it is
just, is expressly ratified by the constitution of Pennsyl-
vania. ^ It declares, that suits may be brough t i^;ahist the

^ Art 9. 8. U

nCTURES OK LAV* MS

tommonwealth. The manner, the courts, and the cases,
in which they may be brought, are left to the direction of
the legislature. It was deemed sufficient to recognise the
principle : its operation will be guided in such a way, ais
time and circumstances shall suggest. Upon the same
principle, the judicial power of the national government
** shall extend to controversies to which th« United States
Hre a party ; and to controversies between two or more
stales." "

These provisions may be viewed by some as incom-
patible with the opinions, which they have formed con-
cerning the sovereignty of the states.

In the introduction to my lectures,** I had an oppfjr-
tunity of showing the astonishing and intricate mazes, in
which politicians and philosophers have, on this subject,
bewildered themselves, and of evincing, that the dread
and redoubtable sovereign, when traced to his ultimate
and genuine source, is found, as he ought to be found, in
the free and independent man. In one of my lectures, **
I proved, I hope, that the only reason, why a free and
independent man was bound by human laws, was this —
that he bound himself. Upon the same principle on which
he becomes bound by the laws, he becomes amenable
before th« courts of justice, which are formed and autho-
rized by those laws. If one free and independent man,
an original sovereign,, may do all this ; why may not an
aggregate of free and independent men, a collection of
original sovereigns, do this likewise ? The dignity of
the state is compounded of the dignity of its members.

m Cons. tr. S.«rt 3. s. 2. „ Ante. vol. 1. p. 23. 25i

« Ante. voL 1. p. 211. et seq.

N

SM LSCTURES ON LAW.

If the dignity of each singly is undiminished, the dignity
of all jointly must be unimpaired. Is a man degraded
by the manly declaration, that he renders himself ame-
nable to justice? Can a similar dedaration degrade a
state i

To be privileged from the awards of equal justice, is
a disgrace, instead of being an honour ; but a state claims
a privilege from the awards of equal justice, when she
refuses to become a party, unless, in the same case, she
betomes a judge.

" In any cause" — said the judge of the high court of
admiralty of England, in a very late decision'—** In any
cause where the crown is a party, it can no more with-
hold evidence of documents in its possession, than a
private person. If the court thinks proper to order the
production of any publick instrument,, that order must
be obeyed."

In the Mirrour of Justices, we have an account of the
first constitutions ordained by the ancient kings of
England. When the writer of that book calls them
ancient, they must be so indeed ; for my Lord Coke ^
informs us, that most of it was written long before the
conquest. Among these constitutions, we find the fol-
lowing very remarkable one. ** It was ordained that the
king's court should be open to all plaintifis ; from which
they should have, without delay, remedial writs, as well
against the king or the queen as against any other of the
people." ' You are pleased by tracing another instance,

P l.CoL Jot. 68. 9 la Rep.Pre£ 14

■" 4. Cou. Ang. Norm. 487.

LECTURES ON LAW* S9J

» I

in which Saxon principles are renewed by our consti-

tutions.

Ci

Judges ought to know, that the poorest peasant is a
man, as well as the king himself: all men ought to obtain
justice ; since in the eyes^of justice, all men are equal ;
whether the prince complain of a peasant, or a peasant
complain of the prince.'' ■ These are the words of a king
—of the late Frederick of Prussia. In his courts of
justice, that great man stood upon his native greatness,
and disdained to mount upon the artificial stilts of
sovereignty.

In England, there is a noted distinction, which runs
through the whole system of courts. Some are courts of
record: others are courts not of record.

A court of record is one, whose proceedings and acts
are entered in rolls of parchment, and whose power is to
hold pleas according to the course of the common law.
These roUs, being the memorials of the judges, import in
them such incontrollable credit, that they admit no aver-'
ment, or plea, or proof, to the contrary of what they con-
tain. Such a record can be tried only by itself. ' No
possible kind of evidence, not even that of the senses, can
shake its authenticity ; if we may rely on the authority
of a well known story in Westminster Hall. A party, in
})erfect health, was hearing his cause ; but his counsel, by
an unfortunate stroke of his plea, had killed him on the
record. The judges could, by no means, take notice of
him, though he stood before their eyes. He averred that
he was alive : his averment could not be received : it was
against the record. "

• Warv. 343. . « 1. List. 260. « Bar. on st 248.

396 L£CTURES OX XAWp

A court, not of record, is one, whose acta are not en-
rolled in parchment, or whose proceedings are not accordU
ing to the course of the common law. y

It deserves to be remarked, that the distinction be-
tween courts of record and courts not of record was
unknown in England till after the Nomian conquest*^
The occasion and the cause of its introduction deserve
also to be remarked. The Conqueroir, averse to the Saxon
law of liberty, but unwilling to run the risk of an at*
tempt to overturn it at once, formed a plan, artful and
too successful, for undermining it by degrees. He
appointed all the judges of the curia regis from among
the Normans, ignorant of the Saxon laws, and fond of
their own. The language of the court was altered ; and
all pleadings and proceedings were entered in the Nor-
man tongue. This introduced the technical terms and,
imperceptibly, the rules and maxims of that fo]::eiga
juriq>rudence.

This introduction of a new language, the exaltation,
of the aula regis, and the consequent depression of the
county courts, paved the way, in the opinion of a very
sensible lawyer, ^ for the distinction between courts of
record and not of record. Courts of record were those,
whose proceedings were duly entered in the Norman
tongue, and, vmless reversed, could never be questioned
or contradicted. To have allowed such a privilege to the
county courts, in which the Saxon suitors were judges,
and whose proceedings were in the £i\^ish language,
would have been inomsistent with the genius of the Con-
queror's plan ; for it would have had A tendency to con-

V Wood. Ins. 464. w i. Reer. Q8. » Sulliv. 271.

LECTURES ON LAW. 297

firm, rather than to depress, the SaxoR system. The
county courts, therefore, were considered as courts not
of record, ,

From any thing I have fiaid, no inference, I hope, will
be drawn, that I deem fidelity and exactness in register-
ing and preserving the acts of courts of justice as matters
of small importance : they are of the greatest. I only
mean to enter my protestation against a sacrifice of the
principles of common sense, to a superstitious regard for
the infallibility of records.

VOL. II. q, ^

CHAPTER V.

ft

OF THE CONSTITUENT PAETS Of COURTS.-*^

OF THE JUDGES.

•X NOW proceed to. consider the constituent parts of
courts. The judges form one of those constituent parts.
Let me introduce their chjaracter by the beautiful and
correct description of the magna charta of King John.
A judge should know the laws : he should he disposed
to observe them.

It seems to be the opinion of some, that severity
should be the striking feature in a judge's countenance.
His countenance should reflect the sentiments of his
heart. In his heart should be written the words of the
law. If the law say, and the law does say, that, in all
its judgments, justice shall be executed in mercy ; on the
heart of a judge will this heavenly maxim be deeply en-
graven ; in his looks it will beam.

——Nee supplex turba timebunt.
Judicis ora sui ; sed erunt sub judice tuti.

. OVID.

300 • LECTURES ON LAW*

He ought, indeed, to be a terrour to evil doers ; but he
ought also to be a praise to those who do well. The
more numerous as well as the more valuable part of
the citizens, are, we trust, 'of the latter descripticm*
Complacency, therefore, rather than vengeance, should
habitually influence the sentiments, and habitually mark
the features of a judge*

A judge is the blessing, or he is the curse of society.
His powers are important : his character and conduct
can never be objects of indifference.

When a judge is mentioned as the curse of society,
. Jefferies, ofinfe^ons memory, iftstatndy -starts into view.
Some circumstances, tehich attended the fate of that
odious^ man, place, in. the strongest light, that deep
ifiktestation which is dways entertained, and whidh i&
«i^>ressed whenever it can be expressed with sirfe^
iagainst the charactdr and person of sm oppireasivc and
Ifyrannical judge.

When his master abdicated the throne, his owft
security lay only in flight. From the law, the law's
worst assassin could expect no protection. That he
might escape unknown, he shaved his eye brows, pot
on a seaman's habit, and, all alone, made the best of Us
way to Wapping, wkh « design to take shaping for a
foreign country. But his countenance coidd not remain
undiscovered under all this disguise: a man, whom
upon a trial, he had frightened almost into cdnvolsiotis^
no sooner got a glimpse of it, than^ in a momem, he
recollected all the terrours he had formerly felt. No-
tice was instantly given to the mob, who rushed in
upon him like a herd of wolves. He was goaded on

LECTUftEa OW IfAW« 301

to dus lord mayor; tlM^ lor4 lAayor, i^eing a ixiaii» <m
whom he had never looked without trembling, l^'ought
before him in this situatipn, fell into fits, was carried to
.Jus bed, and nti^tx rt^e froin iu On his wnjr to the
.^owttj tp which he wa6 committedi^ he saw threatening
fiu:es oft every side ; he saw whtps^ and halt&rs heJdup
around him ; and cried out in agony^ *^ for the Lord's
sake, keep them off." I saw him, I heard him, says a
'Cotem|)orary historian, and without pky too ; though,
witbout pity^ I never saw any other niafeALctor*

:•*•

On the other hand-— I now speak from Beocaria^-^
a man of enlightened undsrslandiag, appointed guardian
of the laws, is the greatest blessing, tl^t a sovetetgn Qa«
bestow on a nation* Such a man is accustomed;^
4>ehoM truth, and not to fear It : unaoquainted wiitb the
greatest part of those imaginary and tnsatiaUe neceaai^
ties, which so often put virtue to the proof, and accus*
temed to contemplate mankind from the most elevated
point of view, he considers the nation as his family, and
li*s fellow citizehs as brothers.

Patience of hearing, says the great Lord Bacon, is
aa essential part of justice ; and an overspeakiiig judge i«
no wdil tuned cjnoibal. It is no grace to a judge, first to
iindthatj which, in due time, he might have 'heard from
the bar ; or to show qmickiyss of conceit in cutdng wit«
nesses or counsel off too short ; or to prevent information
by questions, even by pertinent ones. In, bearmg a
cause, the parts of a judge are four — to direct the evi-
denc&"^to moderate lengdi, repetition, or smpertinency
of speech— ^to recapitulate, select, and collate the material

a 4. Guth. 1063. »» C. 42.

5Qd LEGTirltfta ok law.

|Nirt8 of tluit which hath been said— -to give the rale <ir
tenteace* ^ '

A judge, particidarly a jodga of the commoa law,
should bear a great regard to the sentiments and deci-
4lifMi8 of those, who have ihougfat and decided befc^e
him*

It may be asked«*-why shoidd a point be received wf
law, merely because one man or a succesrion of men have
said it is law, any more than another point should be
-received as reason, merely because one philosopher or a
«et of philosophers have said it is resnon ? In law, as in
philosophy, should not every one ihink and judge for
himself? Stare decisis may prevent the trouble of inves-
ti^tson ; but it will prevent also the |dieasure and the
advantages of improvement.

Imphcit deference to authcMity, as I have declared oa
more occasions than one, I consider as the bane of science ;
and I honour the benefactors of mankind, who have bro-
ken the yoke of that intellectual tjn'anny, by which, in
man^ ages and in many countries, men have been depri-
ved of the inherent and inalienable rig^t of judging £cxr
ih^nselves. But how natural it is, from one extreme to
vibrate with violence to its opposite one ! Though autho-
rity be tkot permitted to4y;|^nnise as a mistress*; may
she not be consulted as a skilful guide I May not respect
be paid, though a Uind assent be refused, to her dictates?

A man must have an uncommon confidence in his own
talents, who, in forming his judgments and opinions,
feels not a sensible and strong satisfaction in the concur-

« 3.Ld.BacS7r.

LECTURES ON SAW.

30$

rence of the judgments and opinions of others, equally or
more conversant than himself with the subjects, on which
those judgments and opinions are formed. Society of
wise men in judgment is like the society of brave men
in battle; each depends not merely on himself: each
depends on others al^: by this means, strength and
courage are diffused over alL To human authority in
matters of opinion, as well as to human testimony in mat-
ters of fact, a due regard ought to be paid. To rely on
bodi these kinds of evidence, is a propensity planted^
by nature, in die human mind.

In certain sciences, a peculiar degree of regard should
be paid to authority* The common law is one of those
sciences. Judicial decisions are the principal and most
authentick evidence, which can be given, of theeilustence
of such a custom as is entitled to form a part of the com*
mon law. Those who gave such decisions, were selected
for that employment, on account of their learning and
experience in the common law. As to the parties, and
those who represent th^ parties to them, their judgments
continue themselves to be effective laws, while they are
unreversed. They should, in the cases of others, be
considered as strong evidence of the law. As such,
every prudent and cautious judge will appreciate them.
He will remember, that his duty and his business is,
not to make the law, but to interpret and apply it'.

V

CHAPTER VI.

TH£ SUBJECT CONTINUED.
OF JURIES.

JURIES form, with a few exceptions, another consti-
tuent part of courts : they form, especially, a constituent
part of courts exercising criminal jurisdiction.

' I mentioned, in a former lecture,^ that I love and ad-
Anire the trial by jury ; and that my love and admira*
tion of it spring from proper principles. Those princi*
jples t am now to unfold.

When I speak of juries, I feel no peculiar predilec-
tion for the number twelve; a grand jury consists of
more, and its number is not precisely fixed.

When I speak of juries, I see no peculiar reason for
confining my view to a unanimous verdict, unless that
verdict be a conviction of a crime— particularly of a
capital crime. In grand juries, unanimity is not required.

* Ante. p. 284.
toIh II. R r

306 LECTV^I^S ON LAW.

When I speak of juries, I mean a convenient number
of citizens, selected and impartial, who, on particular
occasions, or in particular causes, are vested with discre-
tionary powers to try the truth of facts, on which depend
the property, the liberty, the reputation, and the lives of .
their fellow citizens.

Having described what I mean when I speak of juriest
it is proper that I should assign, in the fullest and clear*
est manner, my reasons for some parts of my descrip-
tion.

The first part in this description, which has drawn
your most marked attention, is, probably, that which
represents the powers^ vested injuries, as discretionary.
This part, therefore, merits the first illustration. It wffl
be remembered all along, that the discretionary power
vested in juries is a power to try the trutib of iacts. ^^ Ad
quaes tionem facti respondent juratores."

The truth of fsLCts is tried by evidence. The princi-
pal species of evidence, which comes before juries,' is
the testimony of witnesses.

In a former lecture, >» I had occasion to observe, that
human testimony is a source of evidence altogether ori-
ginal, suggested by our constitution ; and not acquired,
though it is sometimes corroborated, and more frequent-
ly corrected, by considerations arising from experience.
I had occasion further to observe, that, in no case, the
law orders a Vritness to be believed ; for the testimony
of a thousand witnesses may not prodtice belief ; and

fc Ante. p. 88. 90.

LECTUAES ON, LAW. SOT

that, m no case, the law orders a witness not to be be*,
lieved ; for belief may be the. unavoidlable result of his
testimony. These general positions, then laid down, it
is now eur business to fortify and apply. If we shall be
successful in foitifytng and applying them ; we shall see^
in a new and in a very striking li^t, the sublime prin*-
ciple of the institution of juries*

It is tedious, and it is painful, to travel through all th^
nuttierouis degrees, into which it has been attempted to
arrange the force of evidence. Some vpriters on th^
subject have divided proofs into such as are near, and
such as are remote. Others have been adventurous
enough to define the precise number of each, which is
necessary to superinduce the condemaatioa of a person,
who is accused. One says, two will be sufficient : a se«
cond says, three are necessary : a third fixes upon a
number different from either. They have never reflect-
ed, that evidence arises from the circumstances attending
the fact: that those circumstances should be considered
in a coHected and not in a separate view i and that on
the more or less intunate connexion which subsists be-
tween them, the strengdi or weakness of the evidence
resulting from them depends.

The truth of this remark will sufficiendy appear, if
we consider separately any of the presumptions enume-
rated by those writers op the criminal law. There is not
one of them, which may not appear favourable, or un*
favourable, or indifferent to the person under trial. A
man, with a bloody sword in his hand, is seen running
from a hpuse. On entering it, a person run through the
body, and no other person, is found there* Would not
the presumption be strong, that the map, who ran from

ao8

LXCTUREB Oil LAW.

the house was the assas^ni i But should a jury be coni*
pelled, on this evidence, to convict htm? ^hoidd he
not be allowed to prove, if he can, the cotmexioa of ~this
strong circumstance against him with aiiotl»r, in Us la-
TOur, equalty strong-**that, passmg-the door of the hcnise,
he was drawn, by the cries of the person assasstiuitedt
to his assistance, and suddeidy seized the poignard which
the assassin had left in lus side ? The weight of any
one circiunstance cannot be ascertained independent of
others : the number and connexion of those odiers^ can*
not be specified, previously, in a didactick treatise upon
the degrees of evidence.

Thus it is with regard to evidence arising from ^r*
cumstances': wiU more success attend an attempt to as«
certain systematically At degrees of evidence arising
from positive testimony ^ This depends upon the chatac*>
ter of him who delivers, and upon the character of him
who receives it. That, which would be believed from
the mouth of a witness famed for his integrity aiul good
^ense, would be disbdieved, if told by a witness remark*^
able for fdsehood or credulity. A person, hackneyed
in the ways and vices of the worid, who has deceived
and who has been deceived a thousand times, is slowrto
credit testimony. An undesigning countni^man, who has
never practised nor experienced the artifices of fraud,
believes implicitly every tbmg he bears. Can the chai»
racters of witnesses-^^ian the chsu*acter8 .of jurors be
graduated in a disscltatioti upon evidence i And y%%
in each particular case, the force of evidence must de-
pend upon the character both of witnesses and jurc»*s«

For these reasons, we find, in the institutions pf an^
tiquity, no general ru)a» prescribed ccmcemii^ the force

LEGTURKB ON LAW. 309

of. testimony, or the weight of presumptions: the em*
perour Hadrian eacpressly declares the impracticability of
prescribing them. When cme of hia judges applied to
htm for a rescript, containing particular directions upon
this subject; the emperour wrote him an answer, in which
the sentiment we have mentioned is beautifully exhibit-
ed* ^ No cer^n rule,'' says he, ^^ can be. given with
regard to the degree of evidence, which will be sufficient
/ in every cause that shall occur. This only I can recom^
mend to yo^ in general ; that you by no means confine
yourself to any one kind or degree ; but that, according
to the nature and the circumstances of every case, you
estimate, in your own mind, what you believe, and what
you do not think to be sufficiently proved." «

The evidence of the sciences is very different from
ike evidence of facts. In the sciences, evidence depends
on causes which are fixed and immovable, liable to no
ftuctuation or uncertainty arising from the eharacters or
conduct of men. In the sciences, truths, if selfevident,
lure.instandy known. If their evidence depend on their
connexions with other truths, it is. evinced by tracing and
discovering those connexions. In facts, it is otherwise*
They consist not of principles whi^h are selfevident ;
wot can their existence be traced or discovered by any
necessary connexioti with selfevident principles. As
fiaclB, therefore, are neither principles, nor necessarily
connected with principles ; the evidence of facts is un-
susceptible of a general theory or rules*

Let us then forbear to attempt a graduated scale of
diis kind of evidesice. It is the philosopher's stone of

« 2. M<D. ins. 631.

310 XXCTU&XS ON LAW*

criminal jurisprudence. It is impossible to estaUtfth
general rules, by which a complete proof may be dm^
tinguished from a proof that is incomplete^ and presump-
tions slightly probable may be distinguished from conjee-
tares altogether uncertain.

If, therefore^ the evidence of facts can be ascertained^
distinguished, and estimated by no syiM)em of genm^al
rules ; the consequence unavoidably is, that, in every
case, the evidence of facts must d^>aid upon circumn
stances, which to that case are. peculiar. The futh^*
consequence imavoidididy is, that the power of deciding
on the evidence of facts must be a discretionary power i
for it is a power of deciding on a sid)ject uosusceptible
of general principles or rules.

And, after all, is it, at last, come to this? Bo we
live by discretionary power i Is this the final result of
the boasted triad by jury i In Turkey, life and every
tfaipg precious in life depend on the nod of one man: here^
it seems, on the nod of twelve. There is a dUSerance^
indeed, in number : but, in principle, where is tto di&
ference i

. Such is, and such must be our doom. It is agreed^
on all hands, that, in every state, there must be some^
where a power supreme, arbitrary, Absolute, uncontt'ot
lable : these are strong expressions for discreticmarf
power. There have been, it is true, ^diiferent opinions
concerning the question — where does this power reside ?

What security, then, it may nelt be asked, is dieiae^
under any government, for the enjoyment of property,
character, freedom, and life ; if, under every govern^

LECTURES OK LAW. 311

mmty the last resolutidti of the tedious and expenswc
process. is into arbitrary or discretionary power?

Let us not despair : perhaps, after a little investiga-
tibn, we may be happy enotifb to discover some emerg.
ing isthmus, on which, amidst this unstable, watery scene
that suTTOunds us, we may be able to find rest for the
soles of our feet.

It has been shown, at large, that it is impracticable, by
any determinate rules, to ascertain or graduate the force
€rf evidence in facts ; and that, consequently, juries, who
decide on the evidence of facts, must possess discretion-
ary powers. But though it be impracticable to ascer-
tain this matter by determinate rules ; is it, therefore,
impracticable also to give and acquire some conception
of it by a general reference ? Perhaps not.

Let us try ; let the reference be as comprehensive as
possible : if we must live by discretion, let the exercise
of that discretion be universally unanimous. If there
ittiist be, in every political society, an absolute and dis-
cretionary power over even the lives of the citizens ; let
the operations of that po^er be such, as would be sanc-
ticmed by unanimous and universal approbation. Suppose
then, that, in pursuing this train of thought, we assume
the following position<>-*-that the evidence, upon which a
citizen is condemned, should be such as would goveiji
the judgment of the whole society.

Let us, first, inquire, whether this position be rea#
smiable :^ let us next inquire, whether, if this position
is reas<mable, the establishment of it would give, to the
citizen, a just degree of security against the improper

dis

LECTtTRES ON LAW*

exc^rcise.of discretionsny power : let us, in the last plate^
inquire, whether, if this theory is eligible, it be possihle
to reduce its principles to practice.

»

1. I am first to inquir^ whether die position-— that
the evidence, upon which a citizen is condemned, shoidd
be such as would govern the judgment of the wiiok so-
ciety—be a reasonable position.

We showed, at large, in a former part of these lee*
tures, ^ that, in a socie^, the act or judgment of a
majority is always considered as the act or judj^eoit of
the whole.

, Before the formation of socieity, the right of punish-
ment, or, to speak with more propriety, the right of pre-
venting the repetition of crimes, belonged to him who
had suffered the injur}'-, arising from the crime whidi
was committed. In a society formed and weU consti-
tuted, the right of him who has suffered the mjory is
transferred to the community. To the community^
therefore, instead of the injured individual, he who coan
mitted the injury is now to answer. To answer to the
community for his conduct, w^ a part of Ae social con-
tract, which, by becoming a member, be tacitly and
voluntarily made. ^ In this manner, a complete right is
vested in the society to punish ; and a full obligation is

d Antev(^ l.p. 310..

^ Upon this principle of consent, all civil penalties are debts to
the publick ; from whence the Greeks and Romans used Xvufy and
<< pcenas solvere, lucre,'* for undergdng a punidimeot, which "was
a conditional debt contracted by their own consent JPet ob« lor. f9.

L££T?R£« OK LAW. 313

laid oji the individual offeiadiiig, to be amenable to pU<»
maiiment*

The social Contract is of a peculiar kind : when ana-
lyzed into its component parts, it is found to be acoippo-
sition of agreemi&nts, equal in number to the number of
all the members, of which the society is composed. To
each of those agreements thefe are two parties. One
member of the society is the party on one side : all th€
odier QiejQdbers form the party on the other side.

,' The puEushment of a crime in regulated society pre«
supposes two things. 1. The crime must be authenti'*
cated. 2. The penalty must be ascertained. Upon the
principles which vft have laid down, each of those two
prerequisites to punishment must be equally the act of
the society-Mjf the whole society.

With regard to each of these prerequisites, the society
may act either cc^ectiyely and personally, or by depu*
tati(m aud representation. If they act by deputation
and. representation, they^ may intrust one of the fore-
mentioped, prerequisites to the management of one class
of .deputies anfd representatives ; and, to another class,
ibf^^ vasiy commit the management of the other prerequi-
rite. With regard to both, however, the proceedings
must be those of the whole society, or, at least, sanc-
tioned by the authority of the whole society : for it must
be remembered, that to the whole society the right of
punishment was transferred, and with the whole society

^e engagement to be amenable to its justice was made.

\

• ; • .

Q^ a nearer and more minute view of things, we
sfaall discover a most material difference between the
you XI. f s

/ \

I dl4 L£CTUR£S OH LAW*

modes proper for the management of the different pre--
requisites ; because, on a nearer and more minute view
of things, we shall discover, in the management of those
different prerequisites, a most material difference in the
sitixation of the parties to the social contract.

Penalties majr be adjusted, graduated, and ascertain*
ed by general rules, and against all the members of the
society indiscriminately. In the cotssequences of the
regulations made upon this subject,^ every member may
be affected in a double capacity ; he may be affected,
either as the individual party to one agreement, or as .
forming one of the numerous party to each of the otfi»r
agreements, <^ which we have seen the social contract
to be composed. In other words, he may be affected
either as die audior ov as the sufflerer of the peoaMes..
Impartiality,.' therefore, m the conduct of every mem-
ber, may rationally be expected ; and there will be little
reason to use strong or numerous precautions against
interestedness or its effect. Tf tike society aict by repre^
sentatives, and a; difference oi sentiment takes place
among them conc^:^ing any subjecr; the nombers on
&e different sides, in the representative body, wiB pro^
bably bear to one another a proportion ne^ly the same,,
as would be found if aH the members of the society were
personally assembled*.

But, when we attend to the management of ^e other
prerequisite — that of authenticating the commission of
a -crime— a situatiem' of men and things, extremely iitf-
feretit, appears to our view., Here no general n^es ca*'
be adopted-^-no measures can be taken, which will equal-
ly and indiscriminately s^ect all the diflferent nuev^ra
6f the commitfHty in their tum%^ Here,^ the pwrties ¥^

LTOTURSa ON LAW*

iu

^u^jo{ tBe agreements, which form the sochil contract,
^pear ia their origioal stations— -oa one side, an indi*
vidual**-on the other, all the members of the society
^s;cept him8elf-*<-oD one side, those who are to try*— on
the other, he who is to be tried.

In this isolated situation, in which he necessarily but
Unfortunately stands; and in which, if all the members
^f tlie society were present, his fate must, from the vtry
Stature of society, be decided by the voice of the ma«
jority— in this situation, if the society act by representa^
tives, it is reasonable to demand, and it is just to grajal:
the reasonable demand, that the unanimous voice of
those who represent parties, and who themselves are par-
ties as. well as judges, should be necesssoy to warrant a
sentence of condemnation* In such a situation. Where
the representatives are not indifferent, and, consequently,
sotay not be impartial, their unanimous suffrage may be
considered as nothing more, than wJuit is necessary to
found a fair presumption concerning the sentiments of
n majority of the whole community, had the whole com*
xnunity been personally present. In such a situation,
therefore, we may probably be justified in recurring to
our position— ^that the evidence, upon which a citizen is
xondenmed, should be such as would govern the judg*
inent of the whole society: and we may require. the
unanimous suffrage of the deputed body who try, as the
oeoessary and proper evidence of that judgment.

2. I am next to inquire, whether &e establishment of
this position would give, to the citizen, a just degree of
security against the improper exercise of discretionary
power.

3i6 LECTURES p9 X.Alf9'«

t

In all states, as ¥re haVe seen, dkcrelimiaiy po^efs
must be placed somewhere. The great body of the people
is their proper permanent depository. But on some occa-
sions, and for some purposes, they must be delegated.
When they are exercised by the people themsdves, a
majority, by the very constitution of society, is sufficient
for the purpose. When they are exercised by a delegation
from the people, in the case of an individujsl; it would
be difficult tosuggest, for his security, any provision more
efficacious than one, that nothing shall be siUFered to ope-
rate against him without the unanimous consent of the
delegated body*

This provision, however, may still be fortified hf a
' number of additional precautions. Care may be taken in
d;ie manner of forming tlie delegated^body. As this body
cannot, for reasons which will appear afterwards, be
. selected, on every occasion, by the great body of the
people themselves; they may, on every occasion,^ be
selected by an officer, confidential, impartial, and, by the
people themselves, appointed for this very purpose; Notr
withstanding this very guarded selection, yet if any im-
proper character appear among the delegated body, every
reasonable exception mdy be allowed against his compe-
tency to act. To a necessary exercise of dbcretionary
powers on one hand, the indulgence of a discretionary
power may be opposed, on the other. Leave may be
given to reject any determinate number of the delegated
body, even without disclosing any cause of rejection.
Under all these gu^axled and generous precautions, the
person who would undergo a trial might, with an almost
literal propriety, be said to try himself.

If, even after all these precautions, conviction might,
by possibility, take place improperly ; a power might be

L&CT0RES OK LAW. Slf

%

vested in anodic body to set the improper conviction
fl^side, and to remit the trial of the caus^ to a new abstract

of the citizens*

... . ^

Sttttt^unded and fortified by establishments and provi-
sions of this nature, innocence might certainly be secure.

3. I am now^ in the last place^ to inquire, whether
tliese principles, so' beautiful in theory, can possibly be
reduced to practice. <

V

Reduced to practice ! It cannot have escaped you, that
I have been describing the principles of our well known
ttialbyju^.

» • -

Those principles, so illustrious in themselves, will
receive a new de'gree of ^splendour from a more particular
investigation concerning the history, the nature, and the
properties of this admired institution.

To Athens, to Germany, and to Normandy, the insti-
tution of juries has been attempted to be severally traced.
From Athens it has been supposed to be transplanted to
Rome ; from Rome, to England. Those who think it
originated in Normandy or Germany, suppose it to have
been brought into England from the place of its original
establishment.

The great principle of Solon's system was, unquestion-
ably, this noble one — ^that every citizen should enjoy the
inestimable right of being tried t^liis peers, and bound
only by laws to which he had given his conseilt. His laws
were of the most extensive nature. They comprehended
rules of right, maxims t>f morality, precepts of agriculture,

Mft

LMfiTVUM 0» LAW*

and ngublioiis of oDmoierce. - His institttticMis concern-
ing marrifige, luccession^ tesismenUi the rights of perscmtf
and of things, have been disseminated thrqugh th^ juris*
prudence of every civilized nation in Europe* ^ . The
trial by jury, therefore, as well as odner establishments,
may, it is said, refer, with great propriety, its original
to Athens.

In Athens, the citizens were all equally admitted t4.
vote in the publick assembly, and m the Courts of justice^
whether civil or criminal.^

The trial by a jury in Atfams was i^onducCed, it is sakl,
with the same forms as those of an English jury, with a
few exceptions arising from the difference between the
two political constitutions. ^ ^ When the cause was reddy
for hearing, the jury, who were to try it, were chosen by
ballot. ^ It was necessary that they should be competent
in point of understanding, character, and disinterested^.
ness. i The jury was very numerous : it consisted some*
times of five hundred, sometimes of a thousand, some-
times of fifteen hundred members. ^ If the defendant,
in a criminal prosecution, had half the number of ii^otee
Ui his favour, he was aqiiuitted* ^ The presiding arches
settled the cause for trial, gave the ballot* re<;eived the
▼erdictf and published it. "^

In this mode of t^ial, we are told, equal law was open
to all : it was favourable to liberty, because it could not
be infttte9<;ed by intrigues* *"

f 1. GilL 461. Z Pet on Jur. S7. 58, 1. GilL 45§.

\ Pet on Jar ST. ^ Id. e». i I<L» ». k 14SJ9.
» Id. SWd. «i Id. 2d. 50. 51. n Id. 32.

I^KCTVIIEfr ON XAW. tL9

In every piiuticular cause^ the jurors were chosen audi
sworn anew. ^ They were attetided by prt^r officers of
the court, that no one might mix with them, or corrupt-
tfaem, or influence their debisions./ They were not:
obliged to follow testimony in cases immediateiy within'
their own knowledge : but when witnesses were the best
evidence, they were admitted* ^ They were an im^iori^
tant body of men, vested with great powers, patrons oi
liberty, enemies to fyrannny. >^

The antiquity of this institution among the • most
civilized people of the world, is urged as an at^ament^
that it is founded in natnre and original justice. * ^^ The
tirial'by a jury of our own equals seems to grow out of the
idea of jtist government ; and is fotmded in the nature of
things,"*

From thi^ institution, as it was estaUished and ob«
jN&rved by the Greeks, we pass to it as estedilished and
observed by the Romans,

About sixty'years after the eiqxilsioii of the Tanfuitn,;
the Romans, agitated by the dissensions between the
patricians and plebeians, on many sub|ects, aasd partica<*
larly on that of their judicial government, sent commis*^
aioners to Athens to d^ain a tnmsoript of the laws of

SfAan.

»

Among the Romans, there was a double selectioil of
jiiiors. On ^e kalends of Jamtary, a number, different
at 4iffsreat times, of citizens of best note were chosefi bjr

• Pet OB Jur. 43. rJa.M. ili.4a.ia.m.

S80 JUBCTUKBB ON lAW.

/

ballot. From tbesCf aU the juries were mpf^ed^ to
nundier of eighty one each, upon erery newxause. ^
each side^^t^ere was a Hberty to chadlenge fifteen : ifty
one remained to give the vel-dict.. This rejectio jutlicum
is often mentioned by Cicero. ""

- In Rome as in Athens, the jury were sworn ; and^ibe
defendant was acquitted on ap equally of votes. ^ .

Both at Athens and Rome, the time allowed to the
counsel for. their pleadings, was measured by the drop-
ping of a certain quantity of water* ^ When the^ couasely
on each side, had finished their arguments byssying^
^* dixi^^' the i»*aitor sent out the jury to. consult shoot theJor
Verdict. When they returned with dieir verdict,- tbejr
delivered it to the praetor ; and he published it. r

The Roman juries were judges of iaw as w^ as of
£akct. '• They could give a verdict of eondemnmtion, a
verdict of acquittal, or a verdict of n^n lifueU Tins last
hsks, by some, been considered as a special verdict ; biH
improperly ; for a special verdict furnishes the court with
a statement of facts, on whidi they can found a decision
of law ;: whereas a non liquet among the Romans- imme-
diately adjourned the cause for farther consideratson. hsL
some modem tribunals on the continent of Europe, a most
scandalous use h^s, by judges, been made of their pow^^
to pronounce a non liqtiet.

In the celebrated cause of Mil^, we can trace the
yestiges of a special jury. Pompey, who was, at that

tt Pet. on Jur. 113. 115. ^ Id. 114. 115. 123. ^ Id 117.
X Id. 134 . ^ Id. 119. ISa I id.131.

JL£CTt7R£d ON LAW. 321

Hitof sole consnl^ with the dictatorial power, ** videre
mt quid detriment! respublica caperet,'' appointed a
jttiy^ in all respects, of the most able and upright men.
Of this jury, the celebrated Cato was one. " Te, M.
Cato, testor,'' says Cicero^ in his animated and particulai:
-address. The seleetion 6f a jury in this peculiar maimer^
instead of the usual way by ballot^ was^ probal^ly, ohe
instance, in whi«h Pdmpey exercised his dittatotUt
au&ority. *

Julius CsBsar extended the Roman name and power
into Gaul and Germany ; and reduced tliose countries
into the form of Roman provinces. This is an etpr^s-
flion of strong and peculiar import. Wh^n a country
was reduced into the form of a Roman province, it lost
its own laws, and wsis governed by those of Rome. ^

- Caesar visited Brrtaifi^: Claadms, oite of his succeflh
aoin-s, adiieved the congest of a considerable part of
the islands He planted in it four colonies. One of them
*-— that at Malden-<^was intended, as we are told by
Taeitus,^ not so much ^s a check upon the rebel Britons,
ma to accustom the new conquests to a familiarity with
^be Roman laws-^**^^ imbuendis sociis ad officia iegum.'^
His des^s were crowifed With success. The Britons,
who, at £rst, were disgusted even with the language of
Rome, became soon the admirers of her language, her
eloquence, and her laws.^ Under the reign of Severus,
the Roman laws were in their meridiatt splendour in
Sritain, and were illustrated by the talents and authority
mi die^ebrated Papinian^ ^

» Pet on Jun 133.

•

»» U 140.

« Ann. Lit.

a Pet^J«r.M;

« Id 14$.

-

VOL. II.

T t.

$22 LECTURES ON LAW.

When the Romans retired from Ehg^d to guard the

. vitals of the empire, the Britons resumed, in pait,. their

.ancient customs; but blended them with the Roman

■ institutions, with which they had long been familiar*

As the trial by jury was a part of the Roman system

, of judicial polity, when her colonies were established in

Britain, it is probable, that this, among other parts, was

left and was continued among the Britons. ^

Such is the train of observations, which has induced an

opinion, that the trial by jury was introduced into

England from Adiens, through the intermediate channel

-of Rome. Others think they can trace this mode of

tri^ through a different channel.

The very learned Selden is of opinion, that the Saxons
derived the institution of juries immediately from the
Grecians. The government of the Saxons, about the
time of Tiberius, was, in general, as he informs us, ^ so
suited to that of the Grecians, that it cannot be imagined
but much of the Grecian wisdom was introduced among
them, long before the glory of the Romans was exalted
to its greatest height. It may be well supposed, he
infers, that there is some consanguinity between the
Saxons and the Grecians, though the degree of that con-
sanguinity be not known. The people were a free people,
because they were a law to themselves. This was a
privilegje belonging to all the Germans^ in the sanae man-
ner as to the Athenians and the Lacedempnians.

The most ordinary trial among the Saxons was, upon
traverse of the matter in fact, by witnesses before the

f Pet on Jur. 146. 179. c Bac. m Gov. 9.

a

LECTURES ON LAW. 323 '

! -
/

jurors ; their votes made the verdict, and determined
the matter in fact. In former times, continues he, it '
was questionless a confused manner of trial by votes qf
the whole multitude, which made the verdict hard to be
discerned. But tiihe taught them better advice, to bring
the voters to a certain number, according to the Grecian
way*^

The trial per pares, we are told by others, was
common to all the northera. nations, as well as to the
Saxons. *

r

It is probable, says an ingenious and well informed
writer, that, among the Saxons, every kind of law suit
was, at first, determined in full assembly, and by a plu*
rality of voices. But when the duty of these assemblies
became burthensoitne by the increase of business, conve-
nience introduced a practice of selecting a certain number
of their members to assist their president in the deter-
mination of each cause. Hence the origin of juries f
the precise date of whose establishment is uncertain,
because it probably arose from no general or publick
riegulation, but from the gradual and almost impercepti-
ble changes, authorized by common usage in the sevei*at^
districts of the kingdom. Tlie number of jurymen was^
for some time, different upon different occasions; till
the advantage of uniform practice introduced a general
rule, which determined, that no less than twelve persons
should be called in all ordinary causes.-^

A third class of writers contend, that juries, properly
so called, were first introduced into England from Nor-

^ Bac. on Gov. 56. « Millar. 440. SuDiv. si^l. i Millar. 123.

dS4| UG1UAX8 OJV I.4WV

m^ndy. They admit a near aSmity betveea tlu9 uiatL-
tution and that luiown to the triWiala of the Sasumaii
but Ui3]6t> that, among that peopte, the ttisk hy jary>
waiting correctly, ^ did Bat exiat« Thfi trtal^* say A^>.
per duodecim jurcUosy called noini^, was est^Kahed
among the Scandinavians -at a very earl^. peiiod ', hsxt
having fallen into disuse, was revived by a law. o€
Reignerus sumamed Lodbrog, about the year eight hun^
dred a^d twenty. Seventy yeacs afiter thb tmie, Rolkv
made, hiis^ aettJemept in Normandy-; and, among <Hber.
customs, carried with him this mode of trial. . WlMife
the Normans transplanted themselves into England, they
wer^ anxious, to. l^itimate this as wett as.oiiies parta.of
4^eir juri^prud^nce^ and endeavoured to aub^tute it ia
the place ofUiie $sLXf>n.sfcUitoresif or auttocs to l&e coutt^
The earliest mention, they say« which we find of ai^
thing like a jury, was in the r^igaof the Conquenoc*.
He had referred a cause to the county, or ^c^o/^reis,. to.
determine in their county court, a^the course then waa^
according to the Saxon establishments That court'^
g^ve their opinion of tlie cause*. But Oda, the bishop.
6f Baieux, who presided at. the hearing of the cause-,
was dissatisfied with their determination, and directed^
that, if they wete still sure they spoke truth, theyv
sliould choose twelve from^mong themselves, who should^
confirm it upon their oatha.^ The old trial by anJndefi^
^te number of suitors of court omtinued, it is snlded,
for many years after the conquest; but the precedent, sei«
by the Bishop of Baieux had a grei^ e£fbct towaitis*
altering it. It was not^ however^ till the reign of Henrf
the seccmd, that the.ti;Jal by jurors became. genendL^\

LSCTURE8 OH LAW. 325^

If this nccount possessed sdl the accuracy, with the
want of which it contains an implied censure of others,-
ittill it would adimt the princifdes aad substsmtial rukftf-
of trial by jury, to have subsisted among the Saxons y
asxd would establish, between their instittttbti and that-;
of the Normans, a difference only with regaird t6 thc^
liumber of jurors, and to their qualification by an oath*
But, on farther examination, we «haU find, that, in both
these respects, the law was the same before as after the
coiiquesl>^-that the suitors of the court, in other words,
^e freemen, wese the judges, or, as we now say, the
jury. °* .

Before the conquest, we can discover the clearest
vestiges of a jury qualified by an oath, and consisting of
t*relve men. The most ancient, says Selden,** are to
be- fovmd in a law of King Ethelred. Its original is in
the following words^— "'In singulis centuriis comitia
suhto, atque libers& cotlditionis viri duodeni, a&tate supe-
riores, una cum praeposito sacra tenentes juranto se adeo
vemm aliquem innocentem haud damnatutos^ sontemve
absoluturos*^ — In every hundred let there be a court ;
and let twelve freemen of mature age, together with
their foreman, swear, upon the holy relicks, that they
will condemn no innocent, and will absolve no guilty^
person. ®

Selden'j 2^ we^nd from his notes collected by Bacon^
translates the word' "propositus'^ — ^the lord of the hun-
dred. If his translation is just; then this is a strict
instance of the duodecentviral judgment. I translate
tlfe'Word* " propositus'* — ^the foreman of the jury : if my

^ SuSliv. 34r, « AnaL b. 2,.c 6. , • Pet on Jnr. U9i

326, I«£CTURB8 OK LAW.

*

traBsfation is just ; then the jury, in this instance, con-
sisted of thirteen members, including their foreman. I
can only say, that, so far as I know, my translation is the
i|sual one of the word, prsepositus ; that it seems rather
unnatural to designate the lord of the hundred by &e
name of the president of the jury $ and that, I apprehend,
it was never customary for the judge and jury to be swoni
*f together" — " una."

There were two Saxon kings of the name of Ethelred^
The first was the immediate predecessor of the great
Alfred : the second was one of his successours. Selden
refers the law which we have mentioned, to the reign of
the second Ethelred. Now, there must be some mistake
here one way or the other* If this law describes the
jury of twelve ; it is not the most ancient vestige of it ;
for, as we shall soon see, it was unquestionably establish-
ed in the. reign of Alfred. The conjecture is far from
being improbable, that this law should be- referred to the
reign of the first Ethelred ; and that it describes a jury
consisting of thirteen — a foreman and twelve others.

It, has been already observed, that, among the Saxons,
the number of jurynien was probably different at different
times. It may be observed here, that, before the era
of which we now speak, we discover not the slightest
traces of the principle of unanimity in juries. If a jury
was equally divided in a criminal prosecution, we have
seen that, in Athens and Rome, the defendant was
acquitted: but what was to be done in a civil cause?
To avoid frequent dilemmas of this kind, it is probable
that juries consisted generally of an uneven . number.
This number might be fixed by the first Ethelred to

riCTURES'ON LAW» '327

^thirteen. This, at least, was an improvement up6n a
larger and more inconvenient number.

But to the penetrating Alfred, this number, and the
regulations connected with this number, ' would, pro-
bably, appear to require and to be susceptible of still
greater improvement. A jury of thirteen sit on the
life of a prisoner. Six vote for his condemnation : six
vote for his acquittal : must his life depend on a single
vote — ^perhaps not more to be relied on than the single
throw of a die ? Is it not probable, that such as this
ifirpuld be the soliloquy of the humane Alfred ? If so ;
is it not probable, that, from this precarious situation,
the family of Alfred — ^for his people were his children
—would be relieved by the resources of a mind, no less
distinguished by its vigorous exertion, than by its wise
and benevolent reflections ? We can only conjecture his
jnotives, indeed : but we know his conduct. He fixed
the number of jurors at twelve : to a conviction by tHa,t
number, he rendered a unanimous vot^ indispensably
necessary. To him the world is indebted for the unani-
mous duodecemviral judgment.

I establish these interesting facts.

I have already mentioned, on the authority of my
Lord Coke, that the greatest part of the book called
^ ** The Mirrour of Justices," was written long before the
conquest. In that book, we find an account of Alfred^s
acts and judgments, conjectured to have been originally
composed by himself. Of that account, I give the fol-
lowing very literal translation from the old French — ^the
language, ih which Andrew Home, compiled and pub- .
lished the book. "He hanged Cadwine, because hp

988 i;.ECTvm£t on i.av«

»
judged Hackwjr to deadi wUhoui; the asaent of all the

jurors, in a case where he had put hlibaelif upon a* juiy
of twelve men ; and because three were for saving him
against nine, Cadwtne removed the three for others upon
whom Haqkwy did not put himself." *' He hanged
Frebem^ because he judged Harpin to death, when the
jurors were in doubt as to their verdict ; for where there
|s a doubt, they should save rather than condemn." ^

These texts are short : but they are pregnant widi

precious instruction*

1. Each juror may here find a salutary lesson for
his conduct, in the most important of all the tranaaetioM
of a man or a citizen«~*in voting whether a fellow man
and a fellow citizen shall live or die. Does he doubt i
he should' acquit. It ia only when the clearest convic-
tion is in full and undivided possession of the mind^
Ihat the voice of conviction ought to be pronounced^

2. AH the jurors may, in this transaction, of dU bii«
man transactions the most important, find a salirtavy
lesson for their conduct, in forming the. cpllected verdict
pf the whole from the separate judgment of each.

I speat of criminal-^I speak of capital casear hecsaise
tbe cases here mentioned were those, in whidi peraona
were " judged to death."

Is the judgment of a n^jority of the members— 4hat
the defendant should be convicled--4i sufficient founda*
tM» for a verdict of conviction by the jury ? It ia not-

» Pet on lac; I66» £67.

L£tiTUtl£S OK LAW* 329

That verdiet must: be composed of each separate' judg*
"fiient. In the case before us, a majority of three to one
-were for conviction. But the judge was hanged for pro-
notmciiig sentence of death upon the votes of*this majori-,
ty, though it was propped by an adventitious accession
of three other votes.

3. Every citizen may here find most comfortable in*
formation of the jealous attention, with which the law
inratches over him, even when he is accused .of violating
the- law. No jury can pass upon him, except thai upon ,
-which he piitshimself. " Hackwy," says the case before
us, " did not put himself upon those others." For every
trial thcrej must be a new selection* The discretionary
powers,, which we have described, and why;h, in one
view, appear so formidab^, though, in every view, they
are so nectys^ary, can never be exercised against him by
anybody of men, to the exerci5.e of whose powers he
does not give his consent. He may- suffer, indeed, in anO*
ther way. He may suflPer the pain of contumacy, dire-
ful and hard. His contumacy may, by a legislative pro- '
cess, be. transformed into a confession of his guilt. But,
by his . country he can never suffer, unless, in the lan-
guage of the law, he " put himself upon his. country."

In the strictest and mostxorrectmepning of the word^
we have unquestionably, I think, traced the trial by jury
to the Saxons. Selden thinks ^hey derived it immediate-
ly frojm the Greeks : others think they derived it from
'the> Greeks through, the intermediate chazmelof the Ro-
^naBS. The latter seems the. most probable opinion.
From the Romans they might receive it^ by their imme-
diate . intercourse with them in Germany f or they might

VOL. ix» .... ; . .u u ..' ., '

receive It by still another intermedi^e ch^nel — ^tbat cT
ibe Brkons*

It has been already mentioned^ that the Roman arms
were followed constantly and rapidly by the Roman laws*
If, therefore, we can trace the conquests of Rome to
the Saxons i to them we may expect to trace the institu-
tions ot Rome likewise.

The loss of the legions under Varus was one of die
most striking events in the reign of Augustus. On the
mind of the emperour it made so deep an impression,
that he was often heard to cry, in his interrupted slunt*
I^ers— -Varus 1 restore my legions! This remarkable
disaster happened in or near the country of the Cherusciyr
which was itself a part of Saxony ; and was, indeed^ ^
the consequence of the extraordinary pains employed by
Varus, to diffuse amone the inhabitants the laws and ju»
risprudence of Rome.

By Velteius Paterculus we are informed, that whes
Varus commanded the army in Germany, he entertain*
ed an opinion, that n^en, who had nothing human about
them but their form and their language, might be cir
vilized by laws much more easily, and much more eflPec-
tually, than they. could be brought under subjection by
the sword. Under the influence of this impression, he
remained in his camp without military exertion ; and^
surrounded with enenues, sat in judgment o^ causes^
which were brought before him, in the same maimer ai
if he had been a praetor, presiding in the forum of Rome*
Of this propensity, the Germans took an artful advan-
tage. They instituted, before Varus, a continued sc-
ries of litigation ; they expre^sed^ in the strongest terms,^^

LXCTDRE8 OH LAW.

tSieir gra^tude at beholding their controversies tertnin»< '
ted by Roman justice, and at seeing the mild energy of
law substituted in the place of decisions by force. They
expressed also their hopes, that, by the influence of this
new discipline, their own feroci^ would be graduaUy
softened, and themselres would be graduaUy qualified
to think and to act as the friends of Rome. The sur-
prise of his lepons was the first thing which roused
him — but it roused him too late — ^from hia delusive
dream.

The Saxons, it is said, might see' the benefit and
retain the exercise of the Rdman institutions, after they
had expelled him who introduced Aem with so ranch
Zeal, and so much unguarded confidence.

' The Sas6ns, who invaded and conquered England,
might also learn the Roman forms of decision through
the medium of the Britons. On a former occasion,^ I
mentioned, that there is, in truth, no reason to suppose
that the destruction of the Britons by the Saxons, on
their invasion of England, was so greator genera] as it
has been frequently represented. After some time, there
was, unquestionably, aff intimate and a continued iater-1
communication of manners, cnstoms, and laws between
the two nations. Even an English historian admits, that '
a more minute and particular account of the An^o-
SaxoD constitution might be extracted from the Welch
laws of Howell Dha, which were collected in the year
eight hundred and forty two, than even from the Saxon
laws the mseh^es. He indeed accounts for this similari-
ty, by supposing that the Welch adopted the regulations

1 Ante. p. 35, S&

4 >*i

332 LECTURES OK LAW,

- >

of their aneient ^enemies. A Welch historian woold^,
' probably, admit the fact of the similarity, but, as to the
inference drawn from it, he might, perhaps, be iiblc to
turn the tables upon the historian of England. It is, in*-
deed, highly probable, that the Saxons borrowed more
from the Britons, than the Britons borrowed from the
Saxons.

\ -

I have now traced the trial by jury, in its priticiple,

and in many parts of its practical rules, to the most splen-
did eras of Rome and Athens : and I have ascertained
the reign, in which its present number was fixed, and
the principle of unanimity in verdicts of convictioit was
introduced. On this principle of unanimity^ farther at-
tention ought to be bestowed* ^

We have seen an express and a very awful ^Kithoritjr,
that, in verdicts of conviction in criminal cases, it must
be inviolably observed. Is the rule extended— -ought it
to be extended to verdicts of acquittal in criminal cases i
Is it extended — ought it to be extended to any verdict
in civil cases?* I state the questions on the double
grounds of fact and reason^; because, in these lectures^
we are entitled to consider the4aw as citizens as well
as jurist3% It may be our duty to obey, when it is not
our duty, because, without any fault, it is not in out
power, to approve.

N.

I shall consider the questions historically and on prin-
ciple. On this, as on other topicks of common law, we^
shall probably find that princijde is illustrated by history.

I beg leave, before I proceed, to suggest one precau-
,. Uon^--*that the idea of a unanimous verdict should be

LECTUKBS Ol^ LAV.

. carefully distinguished from the idea of a unanimous
sentiment in thoae who give th^ unanimous verdict,
n'hia distinction, perhaps, will be found far'from being
unworthy of your attention. But let us proceed.

That verdicts in civil causes, as well as v«rdicts of
conviction^ criminalKauses, must be unanimous in or-
der to be valid, seems to be a rule unknown tp the law
■of England for many ages after that of Alfred. During
some reigns after the conquest, the law was, that if some
of the jurors were for one party, and some fc»r the other,
new jurors were added, till twelve were found, who
«gr«ed ia opinion for one of 'the parties.'' In the reign
of Henry the third, a unanimous verdict was still not,
deemed absolutely necessary ; but the dissenting jurors
Were amerced, as guilty of a kind of offence, in obsti-
nately maintaining a difference of opinion..'

In the next reign; — that of Edward the first — it was
laid down for law l>y a respectable writer, t that when
the jurors differed in opinion, the judge, before whom
the cause was tried, niight, at his election, add others,
till twelve were found unanimous ; or migbt compel the
jury to agree among themselves, by directing the sheriff
to keep them without meat or drink, till they agreed on
their verdict. • There was still another method, which,
we are informed by a remarkable case in that reign, was
the custom. The verdict of the minority as wejl as of
the majority was ascertained, and distinctly entered on
the record ; and then judgment was given- according, to
the verdict of the majority.'

, 1. Keev. 106. . , Id. 243. t Fleta.

Bl.BeeY.48o. 'IiLibid^ i Hale. P. C. 397.

334 XECTyRES OH LAW*

•

In the eighth year of Ed«ward the third, when a' Juror
delayed his companions a day and a night,, wil&ont as*
sentlng or'giTing any good reason why he vould not
assent, the judge committed him to prison. In the fertgr
first year of the dame reign, the point was fully debated
in the court of common pleas, and, as has been generally
thought, finally settled. All the JMfqjrs, exc^|| one, were
agreed. They were remanded, and remained aU that
day and the next without eating or drinling. Being dien
asked if they were agreed, the dissenting juror answer**
ed, no ; and said that he would die first in prison. On
this, the justices took the verdict of the eleven, and
committed the single juror to prison. All this bsq>peine<i
in an assize. But when judgment was prayed upon this
verdict, in the court of common ple^, the justices were
unanim^sly of opinion, '^ that a verdict from eleven
jurors was no verdict at all." When it was urged, ^at
former judges had taken verdicts of eleven both in assize
and trespass, and one taken in the twentieth year of the
king was particularly mentioned; Thorpe, one of the
justices, said, that it was not an example for them to
follow, for that judge had been greatly censured for it;
and it was said by the bench, that the justices ought ta
have carried the jurors about with them in carts till they
were agreed. Thus it was settled, we are told^ that the
jurors must be tinanimous in the verdict ; and that the
justices may put them under restraint,/ if necessary, to
produce such unanimity. ^

Unanimity produced by restraint ! Is this the princi-
pie of decision in a trial by jury ? Is that trial, which has

been so long considered as the palladium of freedoi^i*-^

•

t

^2.Rcev;i»L,

WCTURBS OH LAfl

Is that trial brougtit to ita consummation by tyranny^a
most direful engine — force upon, opinion — upon opinion
gtveu under all the sanctions and solemnities of an oath i
Every other agreement produced by duress is invalid and
unsatisfactory ; what contrary principles can govern this f

Letuq here make a pause— let us turn round and look
back upon the point said to be settled, and the manner
of settling it. Useful observations will probably be the
result.

We see |hat,in civil cases, unanimity was not original-
ly required from the jurors : the unanimous verdict of
twelve was, indeed, deemed necessary; and, for this
reason, new jurors were added, till twelve were found of
the same mind. This mode must have been productive
of very great inconveniences. It was neceBsary that the
added jurors should be as fiilly informed concerning the
cause, as those who had been impannelled originally.
Every new addition, therefore, must have been attended
wkh all the trouble, and expense, and delay of a new trial.
Wiiii a view, probably, to avoid those inconveniences, a
cuitom was introduced to enter on the record the opinion
of tlie minority as well as that of the majority ; and to
give judgment upon the latter o|Mnion. '

» Inthe fifty sixth ycarafHenrythethirdjWehaveaprecedeiil
of the nwnuer, in which the entry on the record wa> made — " And

all the jury exc^t — say uprai their o»th, &c. and says upon

his oath, &c. Butbecause the aforesaid eleven aay accordingly, ScK.
therefore it is considered," Sec.

In a record of the fburtecnth year of Edwardthe first, the reason
Is assigned in these words— " qma dicto majoris' partis juratonim
ff*^THl|im est." To the principte— that & majority is sufficient— and
LECTUKES ON LAW.

From the record of the case, however, in which tWs
is stated to have been the custom, it appears that another
mode was adopted sometimes by the jurors among them<*
selves, and without any communication of it to the court.
A large extract of this record, of the twentieth year o£^
Edward the first, is furnished us in one of the valuable
notes, annexed to my Lord Hale's history of the pleas of
the crown. ^ The history of that case, and the conduct
of the jury who tried it, deserve very particukurattentioD.

Certain lands were recovered against a prior before
' two judges of assize, in the sixteenth. year of ^dward the
first. The prior complained, that injustice had been done
him at the assize; and the. bishop of Winchester and
others were appointed to hear the prior's complaint, smd
to do justice. The judges appealed, for their just^ca-
tion, to the record of the judgment, which they had given*
In that record, the conduct of the jury was statjed very
minutely. John Pickering, one of the jurors, in narnting
the verdict of the jury, was contrary to all the otiber
jurors ; for he narrated a different thing from what was
agreed upon aniong them, as appeared by their examkia-
tion. For this conduct he was amerced, and ordered into
the custody of the sheriff, till he made satisfaction for his
transgression. The judges, say the bishop afid his asso-
ciates, without specifying on the record, as was the cus-
tom in such cases, the opinions of the eleven, or the
. contradictory opinion of John Pickering, received the
verdict, as if aU had been of the same isentiment concern-
ing it, and gave judgment accordingly. This judgment

not— that unaniiyity is necessary— aa appeal is jxiade on tl^e records
2. Hale. P. C. 297.

Vol. 3. p. 29a.

le(:tur£s oh la

WftS} hy the buhop and his associates, declared contrary
to the law and custom of the kingdom. From this deci-
sion, a writ of errour was brought before the king, by,
die origiital plaintiff. But whether any final determina-
tion vas given, or, if given, what it was, we are not
informed.

From the record it ajqicara, that, whea the j urors could
not a^ee iti a verdict, it was the custom and deemed to
be the law to enter the different sentiments upon the ,
record, and give judgment according to those of the ma-
jority. But from this record somethingjmore appears. It
a[q>eara, Uiaut the jury might agree upon a verdict among
themselves, and appoint one of their, number to narrate
it to the court— that if the person, thus appointed, nar-
rated die Terdict in a manner contrary to what wis agreed
on, he was guilty of a miadetncanor — ^that the verdict
agreed on should not, however, be vitia.'ed by the preva-
rication of the foreman, but should be received according
to what was agreed upon among the jury. Such is the
evident inport of the racorA be£xe the judges of assize*
and of the jjid^ueiit which they gave upon the pro-
ceedings.

The bishop and hii usociates are extremely inaccurate
in ttating the iacts, upon which they ground their repre-
IwnsiaB of the judges. Ftora tE^ir statemeot one woidd
be led to imagine, that Pickering narrated one verdict aft
the voice of the other eleven, and another as his own ;
■nd that the judges, whhouttaking any notice of this tfon:-
trtdiction, had received and entered the verdict as a
unaMDOUs otie. But fhU was very &r from being the
fact, as it appears upon the record oF the two judges of
assise. Pickering spe«U«4 in lus auratioii no difference
TOI.. II, XX

rURES OK LAV.

of sentiment. He, on the contrary, attempted to palm
upon the court, tu a unanimous verdict, one contradio
tory to that which had been agreed on among th« jury.
The other jurors disclosed the verdict agreed oa. That
verdict was received and entered as a unanimous one.
Pickering himself appears not to have either denied'cH*
retracted his own agreement to it. The law and custom
of ^e kingdom, therefore, concerning contradictOfry ver*
diets, were applied, with great inaccuracy, to the proceed-
ings before the two judges.

Highly probable it is, however, that, before this ver-
dict was formed, much diversity of sentiment was enter-,
tained concerning it, among the jurors. The expressions
of the record are very remarkable — .** inter illos fuit pro-
visum'^—^e verdict was provided among them. Consi-
deraUon, consultation, adjustment are aQ suggested bj
this emphatick phrase.

One important subject of their deliberation is mention-
ed ; and it appears, that their sentiments were worthy of
the subject, which emplojied their attention. The prior,
it seems, claimed the plainUffas his villain. The conse-
quence of this claim, if established, would have been, that
the plaintiff could not have recovered the lands in ques-
tion. For a villain could acquire no property in lands or
goods i but if he purchased either, the lord mig^t enter
t^n them, or seize them for his own use. '

The jury found, that the> father of the pl^dff was a
free man, and of free condition ; and that although the
father and his issue held, of the prior and his predeces-

■ S: BL Com. 9S.

LECTURES ON LAI

■on, their tenements in villainage and by viUiUQ s
this should not prejudice them as to the freedom of their
persons. They assi^ the reason — because no prescrip-
tion of time can reduce free bleod to a condition of slave-
lyj therefore the plaintiff should recover. This position,
indeed, the bishop aiid his associates declare to be alto-
gether false; and some of the jury themselves, perhaps,
entertained a degree, of hesitation .concerning it, and
did not adopt it till after much deliberation and advise-
ment* They provided, however, a verdict, founded
on this position, and instructed one of their number to
narrate that verdict to the court.

.The cotiduct of thia jury in forming their verdict '
' deserves the attention — perhaps, as yre shall afterwards
find, the imitation of their successours'. Sentiments,
somewhat discordant wKen taken separately, may, by a ~
proper process, be melted down into a unanimous ver-
dict.

Hitherto we have discovered no law or authority,
which, in civil, causes, requires unanimity in the verdicts,
far less in the sentiments, of jurors. In this.reign, how-
ever, an approach seems, at first sight, to be made
towards the rule. The author of Fleta, who wrote in
the time of Edward the first, gives, as we have seen,
the ..eltiction to the judges, either to increase the
number of jurors till twelve are found unanimous,
or to compel the first twelve, by hunger and thirst, to
-agree.

The author of Fleta was a writer very respectable^:
great deference is due to his sentiments : but the senti>
ments of no writer have, on the balance of authority.

01M lectdreb oh lav.

the weight of judicial determinations. Besides, ihe
practice of withholding from jurors the causes of torpor
and the incentives of passion, while they ponder and
deliberate concerning their verdict, will, perhaps, be
traced to a source and to principles, very dilFerent from
those assigned by the author of Fleta.

The case decided in the forty -first year of the reign
of Edward the third may, perhaps, be urged as a leading
and governing authority for the principle of unanimity
in the verdicts and opinions of jurors. In that case, the
court said, that the justice^ ought to have carried the
jurors about with them in carta, till they were.agreedl
But, as to this saying of the court, I crave the liber^ of
proposing two questions.

Is it supported by any previous custom or Adjudica-
tion? Our investigations hitherto lead us to conclude,
th9t it has no sufch support.

Is it the point of adjudication in this very case ? It
is not. The question in judgment before the court was
this — FS the verdict from eleven jurors only a good
verdict? This question the court determined judicial!)^;
and their determination Was in the negative. But was
the other question — what shall be done with a disagree-
ing jury ? — was this question in judgment before diem?
It was not. Was the answer given to this question a
necessary consequence of their adjudication on the point
judicially before them ! It was not. The verdict (rf de.
ven jurors only might be an erroneous verdict. Does it
follow, that the errour can be prevented or rectified only
by carting the jury till they agree? According to the
practice previous to this saying of th£ court, it would

LECTTTRES OH LAW.

have been rectified by entering tin the record the o]»Di<m
of the dissenting juror. According to the practice subse-
quent to this saying, the errour would have been prevented
by directing a juror to be withdrawn. According to the
principles of jury trial, it might be prevented or rectified
by a variety of modes oth«r and more eligible than that
of carting the jury. Some of those modes will soon be
suggested.

" I would know," says my Lord Chief Justice Vaughan,
in the celebrated cause of Bushetl, ' " whether any thing
be more common, than for two men, students, barris-
tera, or judges, to deduce contrary and opposite conclu*
eions from the same case In law? And is there any
difTercQce, that two men should infer distinct conclusions
from the same testimony? Is any thing more known,
than that the same author, and the same place in that
author, is forcibly urged to maintain contrary conclu*
stons ; and the decision is hard which is in the right? Ii
any thing more frequent in the controversies of religion,
than to press the same text for opposite tenets ? How
then conies it to pass, that two persons may not,
with reason and honesty, apprehend what a witness
says, to prove one thing in the understanding of one,
and a contrary thing clearly in the understanding of the
other I Must, therefore, one of these," asks his Lordship,
" merit fine and imprisonment ?**

Must, therefore, both of these, I beg leave to ask,
merit what is worse than imprisonment and fine i Must
they be exposed, m ctuts, to publick derision, because
^y act a part which is common, inQoCttDt, unavoididile?

SVZ I/BCTCRZS ON LAW.

Must they suffer all the extrcmiues of hunger and thirst*
till, at last, agoiiizmg nature makes the necessary but
disgraceful barter of unsufferable punishment for degr^
ding prevarication? Are instruments Bubscribed by pain,
by infamy, and by shame— are these the letters recom.
mendatory, which our law despatches, or wishes to
despatch, to the remotest regions of the globe, in order
to concentre in the trial by jtiry the admiration and imi-
tation of all ?

It must, however, be confessed, that though no ju-
dicial determinations, so far as I know, are precisely in
■ the point ; yet the forms of our law, rendered venerable
by the immemorial practice of ages, seem at least to
countenance, if not to presuppose, the principle of una-
nimity in the trial by jury. When the jury retire, a bailiff
is sworn to keep them together till they be agreed of
theii^ verdict. When they return to the bar, the first
question asked of them is — are you agreed of your ver-
dict i This question must be answered in the affirmative,
before the verdict can be received. Such are the esta-
blished forms of the law. They seem to require a
unanimous verdict.

Every juror swears that he will give a true verdict
according to his evidence. The sacred obligation of this
oath demands, that to unanimity truth shall not be made
a sacrifice.

In this situation are the jury placed. Truth and
unanimity— qualities very distinct— qualities, on some
c^ccasions, seemingly irreconcilable — ^must unite in the
composition of their verdict. To extricate them' from
such a labyrinth, where the lair seems to point to one

I.ECTVREB OK LAW. 343 .

direction, and their oaths seem to point to another,
is there no affectionate hand to furnish them a clue ?

What is a verdict ? It is the joint declaration of twelve
jurymen upoa their oaths. Littleton calls it " the ver-
dict of twelve men." ''

" Vcredictum," says my Lbrd Colce, in his valuable
Commentary, ^' quasi dictum veritatis, as" judicium is
quasi juris dictum. £t sicut ad qusestionem juris nan
respondent juratores^ sed judices; sic ad qusstionem
facti, non respondent judices, sed juratores." A verdict
is a declaration of the fact : % judgment is a declaration
'Of the law. To a question of law the judges, not the
jury, shall answer : so, to a question of fact, the jur^-, not
the judges, shall answer. So far the paralle} holds,
exactly hetween the duties of judges and of jurors^
in their respective provinces of law and of fact. So far
ttie parallel holds hetween a verdict and a judgment.

We have seen what a verdict is; it is a joint decla-
ration of the jury. What is a judgment ! It is, I appre-
"hend, the joint declaration of the court. It is not merely
a declaration of a majority of the judges : it is the decla-
tion of the court. When it is solemnly pronounced,
even hy a dissenting president, it must be announced as
*' the judgment of this court" — ^not as the "judgment of
a majority of the judges." Why should not the parallel
hold, in this instance too, with regard to a jury, except
in a case of conviction, which has been already shown to
stand upon its own peculiar foundation?

^44 J^EGTURSS ON tAW*

We have seen, that, in this instance too, the'parallel
did hold formerly with regard to the jury. We have
seen, that the declaration of the majority operated as
the verdict of the jury. For some time, indeed, the
dissent of the minority was noticed on the record ; but
was it necessary to notice that dissent ? Was it necessary
to continue that practice ? Every one knows, that judg-
ments are entered as the acts of the court generally,
even when there is a dissenting minority. Why should
SLOt the same practice prevait^-^hy should we not pre«*
sume that the same practice has prevailed, with regard
to juries ? On the record, the transactions of the cotirt
bear the same stamps of ui^imity with the trauisactioii4
of the jury: whence, then, can it be inferred, tiiat
a degree of unanimity is, in reality, required from th&
jurors, which, on all hands, i^ acknowledged to. be unne<*
cessary in the judges ?

Whether, therefore, we consult the suggestions of
the records, or the information of etymology, the Infe-
rences of analogy, 9r the language of adjudications, we
shaB find no authority to conclude, that, in civil causesj
the verdi(!;t of a jury must be founded on unanimout
opinion.

But recurrence will still be had to tbb$e venerable
forms, immemorially established, which' eountenaftce
or presuppose the doctrine of \maniitiity in the trial by
jury. Befoi?e'a verdict can be received, it will be :urgfcdt
i^e jur^" mu^ deoliU-e, diat of thatriterdkt they are
agreed. . y

Permit me, on this occasion, to have recourse to a
conjecture. I propose it with diffidence : I pursue it

*

¥:

LECTURES ON LAW. ' i4>^

with c&ution ; if my expressions concerning it become
sanguine, it shall not be till I think I have established lt«
My conjecture is^ that by the phrase,. .*' agreed of a ver-
dict/'- nothing more is meant, than that the jury are wil*
, ling and prepared to give a verdict ; and by that means,
bring to a decision the controversy submitted to them^

In e*rly times^ a verdict, as we have seen^ could not
be prevented by the contrary vote or sentiment of one
ov'of a miilority.of the jurors* The jury \vap increased
till twelve w^re unanimous; or the vote of a majority
was received as a^ decision. But the effect of sin obsti^
ttate refusal: to give any vote was very different; We
bave seen, that aH the votes were required to be dis-
posed of on the^ record ; and that though eleven votes*
on one side, and one on the other, formed maiteri-
als for a verdict ; yet eleven votesf*, unopposed by the
diissenting one, were deemed insufficient for that purpose.
Those, therefore, who wished to c^bstruct the administra<«
tion of justi<?e ia the trial by jury, accomplished theit
wishes by refusing to give any vote on either side. In
turbulent times — and the times I allude to' were tur-»
bulent---this expedient would be often used, by the
frieiftds of a powerful usurper in possession, against a^
legal recovery by him who had right. To restrain and
to prevent the pemic,ious effects of such a conduct, every
juror was sworn to give a verdict ; the bailiff was sworn
to*confine him till be should agree to give it ; and no decla-
ration was received by the court, till it was unanimously
declared, that, as to the point of giving a verdict^ they
were afi agreed*

These obsdrvatioiis :si^ill throw a new light upon some
jioii^ts, which have been already mentioned. The case
TOL. II. Y y

!■■. * *

L

346 {.ECTURjeS ON LAW.

of ati obstinate juror, of the species now described, hap*
pened, as we before noticed, in the eighth year of the
reign of Edward the third. Upon that case, my Lord
Chief Justice Vaughan makes the following re-
marks : " This book," says he, ** rightly imderstood,
is law : that he staid his fellows a day and a night, with-
out any reason or assenting, may be understood, that
he would not, at that time, intend the verdict at aU, more
than if he had been absent from his fellows ; but wilful-
ly not find for either side. In this sense, it was a mis-
demeanor against )iis oath; for his oath was" truly to
try the issue, which he could never do, who resolved
not to confer with his fellows.** ** And in this sense,^*
adds he, ^^ it is the same with the case 34. Ed. III. where
twelve being sworn^ and put together to treat of their
verdict, one secretly withdrew himself, and went away^
for which he was justly fined and imprisoned ; and it
diifers not to withdraw from a man's duty, by departing
from his fellows ^ and to withdraw from it though he stay
in the same room : and so is that book to be understood.***
These remarks corroborate what I have mentioned<r-that
the great object seems to have been to secure a decision^
not a unanimous decision, by verdict. For both the
cases, just now noticed, happened before that whidi is
alleged to have settled the principle of unaniniity* I
hope, I have now established my conjecture..

I have asked, ** since judgments ate entered as the
acts of the court generally, when there is a dissenting
minority ; why should not the same practice prevail-^
why should we not presume that the same prac^ce has
prevailed, with regard to juries ?** I now go farther, and
undertake to evince, that the reason for that pracHce U

cVaugh. 15I4

»t

• > LKTURES ON LAW. 34/

itkXLch'gtesLttm, and that, consequently, the presumption
ia its favour is much stronger, in the case of jurors, than
it is in the case o/ judges. This will appear from a va-
riety of considerations.

In the turbulent times, to which I allude, the jurors,
a$ we arc told by Montesquieu, were obliged to fight
either of the parties who might give them the lie. When
there was no dissent, or which, as to this point, was the
same thing— -when no dissent appeared, a party who gaVe
t)|e lie to one, must engage in single combat with each.
Their numbet would render him circumspect. A regard,
therefore, to the security of jurors would superinduce.
cvQjl^ prudent appeaiance of unanimity in their opinions
and verdicts. But this reason applied not to the judges.

In times the most civilized and tranquil, it is impro«
^r to expose jurors unnecessarily to the. concealed re-
•e^^tment of those, who may be- affected by the parts they
•everally take in the juries, of which they are members.
This reason is applicable, but not so strongly applicable,
to the judges. 4

In this argument, whatever shows a greater reason
for preserving the vestiges of diversity in the sentiments
of the judges, than in those of the jurors, will have the
same effect, as that which shows a greater reason for pre*
serving the appearance of unanimity in the sentiments
of the jurors^ than in those of the judges. We haye
seen,** that ** a judges particularly a judge of the com*
mph law, should bear a great regard to the sentiments
and decisions of those, who have, thought and decided
before him.** We have seen, « " that the evidence of

^ ADte. p. 302/ * Ante. p. 310.

548 L£CT0IiBS ON LAW.

facts— ^nd facts are the ^emntt of juriet^— <^aiti0t ht
ascertained, distinguished, or estimated ^by any system
of general rules ; and that, for this reason, the evi4eiice
of facts must, in every case, depend on circumstances,
which to that case are peculiar." The natural conse-
quences from these two positi<»n8<are> that it might be
useful, perhaps material, to preserve, on the record,
evidences of the unanimity or diversity <^ sentinieBts,
with which judgments are given, so that they may make
the slighter or deeper imppession on die minds of suc^
ceeding judges ; and that such a measure^ with regard to
verdicts, would be altogether useless and iramatmal ;
since every verdict rests on its own peculiar circumstaaces^
without precedent and without examqde«

The result' is, that the reasons for apparent unanimi-
ty on the record are not so great, nor the presumption
arising from them so strong, in the case of judges as ifx
the case of jurors : an apparent umminutyy however, is
preserved^ while a real diversity of sentiment suhsistsf
jn the case of judges': there is, therefore, much greater
reason to presirme, that a real diversity of sentiment
may subsist, though an apparent unanimity be preserved,
in the case of juries.

It may be naturally asked— if this principk of unani*
mity in the trial by jury be unfounded ; how has it hap^
peiied, that the opinion of its existence hi^ been so ge-
neral and so permsaient, not only among the pec^le at
large, but even among professional characters I Tfah
has already been accounted for in part. It. was prudent
to preserve the appearance of unanimity: this aniforal
appearance would naturally produce and disseminate soEt
pptpioh that the unanimity was real. Besides^ in one

LKOTURSB OH LAW. 849

i^pecies—rUi the most important species of verdicts— ^those
of convieCiOB in criminal, stiil more in capital cases"-^
thi^ unatiimity, upon the principles which have b^en ex«
plained, was not cfoly apparent, but real and ihdispensa-
ble. Fardier ; the awful precedents set by Alfred, to
.establish the principle of unauimity in this species of
verdicts, would naturdly make a deep and lasting im»
pression upon aH— upon professional characters, as well
as upon others. Impressions, deep and lasting, are al«
Ways diffusive : their influence, therefore, extended be-
yond those causes, which had ori^naliy produced them.
Unanimity, confined, in its principle, to verdicts of eon- .
vietion in criminal cases, was applied indiscriminately to
cases and verdicts of every kind — ^to verdicts of acquit-
tal, as well as to those of conviction — to cases civil, as
weH as to cases eriminal.

This subject, so very interesting to juries and to all
who, and whose causes, are tried l>y juries, I have
inv^estigated minutely and carefully, historically and upon
principle. Of many late dicta I have taken no notice,
because they are suspended on those of a more early pe-
riod. To trace matters to their remotest sources, is the
most satisfactory and the most successful mode of *de-
tecting errours, as well as of discovering truths.' In ^

doing both, I hope that, on this subject, I have had

«

some success: if so, I shall have much satisfaction ^
for I shall have contributed to dispel a cloud, dark and
heavy, which has hitherto shaded and hung over the
triad by jury, so luminocn when beheld in its untnter^
cepted lu«tie.

If I lunw been successful, many practical advantages
will result to parties, to jurors, and to judges. My

MO

LXGTURX8 ON X.AW.

Aeory is ^loitly this. To the.CQ&viciioii»of a crlsne^ 4»
iindottbting and the unaniinaus sentimieat of the, twelve
jurors is of indispensable nece^itjr. tn civil cau^sest the
sentiment of a majority of the jurors forms the verdict of
the jury, in the same maimer ^w the sentiment of a ma-
jori^ of the jadges forms the judgment of the court. In
many cases, a verdict may, with, great propriety, be com-
posed of the separate sentiments of the seversd. jurors,
reduced to what may be called their averse i^esult. This
will be explained. Hitherto, I have said nothing con-
cerning, verdicts of acquittal in criminal cases. After
what has been observed, it is unnecesMoy to say much
concerning them. If to a verdict of conviction, the un-
doubted and the. unanimous sentiment (^ the twelve
jurors be of indispensable necessity; the -conseifueaoo
unquestionably is, that a single doubt or a sii^e dissent
must produce a verdict of acquittal.

Let us now see whether this^ theory^ short and pban,
may not be reduced to practice, with great security and
advantage to parties, to juries, and to judges.

In criminal prosecutions, the state or sodiely is always
a party. From the necessity of the case, it is also always
a judge. For we have seen, that, in ^he social coiMract,
the party injured transfers to the publkk his right of
punishment, and that, by the publicly the parly iajiaing
agrees to be judged. The state acts by tiie medium ctf
the selected jury. Can the voice of die state be indicated
more strongly, than by the unanimous voice of thb select-
ed jury ? Again ; the state, though a party on one side,
has a deep interest in the party on the otkerside ; for to
a well organized state, every citizen is precious. Accord*
ing to the theqiy which we are now t|yin^*by its apfili*

LECTTTRES OlT LAtT*

^Sl

cation to practice, the state can lose no preckms part of
herself, unless on the strongest indication that she herself,
if consulted on the occasion, would say,

-— imme^ycabile vutous

Ease recidendum evt; Reparsjunceratrohetar*

\

Bjr the practice of this tl^pry, the sta,te will lose no inea(i»
ber by the malice or reaenlment of a single individual^
who, with a tonstitutton as strong as his heart ishard^
can -starve his fellow jurors into a reluctant and prevari-
cating verdict of ocmviction.

How stands the olh^ party to a criminal prosecution I
He standa single and unconnected. He is accused df a
crinae^ For bis trial on this accusation, he is brought
before those who, if he is guilty, represent his offended,
judge. If it were possible, the characters of party and
jndge should be separated altogether. When that is im«
possible, the greatest security imaginable should be pHrOf*
vided against the dangers, which may result from theit
union. The greatest security is provided by declaring,
and by reducing to practice the declaration, that he shall
not suffer, unless.the selected body who act for his coun*
try say unanimously and withoutjiesitationr*-4ie deserves
to suffer.' By this practice, the party accused will be
effectually protected from the concealed and poisoned
darts of private malice and malignity, ^d can never suffer
but. by the vo^ce of his country*

By this practice, we are led to see the beautiful and
exquisite propriety and emphasis of a fo];m, which is used
every day in criminal trials ; but which is the object of.
Uitle attemibn, because it is used every day* When the

/

dll

%JKiTVhBB^:<^1g hAW.

jwy 9X€ sworn to try 9^ pevscm £91* «. eriam, iht clerk o£
the eourt mform^ them sneekictly of the aature of the
charge ; that the prisoner h^ pleaded to it^ that be is act
guilty ; that for trial he has put himself vpon his country
'—"which couaAry," adkb he, "you are.-' Upon the
principles wbicif I have s|ftl»d and €Xfimatdy st jury, in
criminal cases, may, indeed, be called the' country of the
person accused, aiffed the trial by jvary nia^r, iDdi^e<^ be
deaominaited &e tr'ml ptr p^triiem*.

" In a well tempered govettttttwt,'' says the £mpr^a
of Russia, in the excellent .tastruGtioBS wfakh ahe gsMtre^
concerning a code of laws for her extensive empire^ " In
a well tempered goveTument, napersoix iadepri^^ of his
life, unless his couiktry rise up against him." ^ Ijet cl&era
imow, and teach, and publish, and reconrniead fine fcSi-
tical priiiciptes : it is ours to reduce thcsn to practice

We may now conclude, that the ptactke of die idieory,
wfakh we have explained, is advaa«sige6(UB>and seotrefor
the parties in erimkial causes* Let ufe next examine it
in r^Iatkm to causea of a civil tM&te^ Here, we say, diie
aentiment of a majority of the jurokrs forms the verdict of
the jury, m the same AmMer as the ventiment of a m^i^^
jevity of the judges^ forms the judgment of the court*

That the sentiments of the majority shatt govern, is,
as we before showed at large, ^ the general rut^ of socie^.
To this rule we have seen the (Strongest reason to intro-
duce an exception, with regard to verdicts of conviction
in. criminal prosecutions, fioes the &ati» reason ext^id
to civil eausesf i We* presume not. In; cakilr causes, tiise

f a^WanBibiOr.

t iUMbs^ vei I4 ]!. dl«.

'U

/
uc;rvR£s x>N LAW*. ' ssz

jQll^(rtw4 ^fl!M4|r m4iffer€Qt to t|ie parties on either side.
At ^^ jvH^H^al ^9^9^^ tk^a bwgft in {^rfect equipoise
^^^tweieQ theqi; it i^ for tjieir aecurityv ^^ ^Qi* their ad«
vaatnge too, that ^he scales should clearly indicate the
proportippfd weight 9ifh^ ^4 tnitLiYhtc^ i^ thrown into
them, and that a prf^nderi^icj oipi the whole should
direct the decision. To insist that a jury should be una-
ai|ii|04|s, if aventwdiy, in many cases, tp ordain, $hat
their vi^rdijCt.sh^ ffot.b^ fbe legitimate p^^pring of free
deliberation and candi4 discussion ^ but shall be the spu-
rious brood of stfisp^ of constitution and obstinacy of
tcniper* Fqr. tk^ advantage and seci^rity of the parties
^a cannot be ; tlie other mi^t.

*' . ■ ..."

Let ^8 npw consider this subject ^s it respects juries*
Vvovf^ the principle of unanis^ity, as it has been often
^^d£T$tood, he who 'will ,be. obliged to dischsurge the iniT
portant trusts and duties of a juryman has but a comfort?
lesa prospept beCpr^ him. H^ i^ust pefforin the most
interesting business pf aoci^tyr^he must decide upon
£brtunp, upon charact^, uppn lit^erty, upon life : all thi^
he must perform in conjunction with others, whom he
does not ^hpose, whojn, perhaps, be dpes not know, with
srfapin, perhaps, hp would not wi^h to associate f for
jd^QugljL jurors are sel^cted> they ai?e not selected by one
unotber : aU this, top, k^ mi^t perform inreal or in cpun*
terfeited unanimity with ejeven pther^, each of whom is
summoned and appears on this busii^eiis under the sam^
untoward circumstances with himself. What, must he
4o i In the affairs of li^, re#d i^i^i^iity aiiip^g s^ch a
number is little to be ejected i least of a)l is it to be
ies|>ecled in mattes w^if^h ^/^ litig9ted, and cpnceiHiiig
orUch, if there had b^ep i|o doubt, it is to be presumed
lliere would have beM f¥> cpntrovevsy. If real unj^umity
VOL. II. a z

354 LECTVREft 0V %AW.

eaiinot be expected, he must either couitterfeitlthiittsdC»
or he must be an accessory before the fact to the counter-
feiting of it by others. The first is the principal, tlie
second is inferiour only to the principal degree of diaitt-'
gehultj''. Such a situation can nevef be desirable : on
soine occasions, it msiy be dreadfidi '

Let us suppose, that matters are brought to die »ttl
alternative — that a juror must ruiti his constitution, or,
perhaps, literally starve himself ; or, to avoid immediate
death or a languishing life, he must, contrary to his con-
science, doom a fellow^ man and a felloe citizen to die—- ^
what must he do? In this crisis of distress, he praysr
direction from the. laws of his country: the laws of his
countr}"^, as often understood, tell him— you must starve :
for it cannot be insinuated, that the laws will advise htm
to belie bis conscience. 'He obeys the hard mandate: by
the virtue of obedience he loses his life : by his death the
jury are discharged: fdr now there is a natural^ as well
as a moral impossibility of obtaining th^unabimous ver-
dict of twelve mdn. The former produces what, on every
principle of morality and jurisprudence, the latter ought
most unquestionably to 4iave produced. But what must
be the consequence of the jury's discharge? Does tt dis-
charge the person accused ? No. A sedond jury mint sit
upon him i and before that second^ury muslt be brought
all those inextricable difficulties, which ptoduced? sack
calamity in the first. u. .

Where is this to end? By the {H^actice of the^princi-
ples which I have explained, this tan never ..begin. It is
no hardship for each juror to speafc>^Inft genume ^xsA
undisguised sentiinem. Is it fc»: co&viction ? Let him
declare it. Let^ every other, in tte same manner, dedai*

LxcTuaes on law^ ?SS

■

JM^ gemiific : and undi^uised seuting^nt* If the ^eminoyei)^
4>f every other is for coaviction ; the verdict of conviction
i^ unftnrmout. . If a fiingle senjtlment is not for conyiction ;
^en a verdict of acquittal is the immediate consequence.
To this verdict of ^aojpitta^, every one. whose private sen-
timent was for conviction ought immediaitely to agree*
For by the law, as it has been atated^ twelve votes of coa-
v^tion are necessary to compose a verdict of conviction ;
but eleven votes of conviction and one against it compose
a verdict of acquittal.

Thus it is as to ci'iminal matters* Under this dispo**
^tton of things, can an honest and conscientious juror
dread or suffer any inconvenience, in discharging his im«
pertaat trust, and performing his important duty, honestly
and conscientiously ? Und^sr this disposition of things,
will the citizens discover that strong reluctance, .which
they often and naturally discover, against serving on juries
in criminal, especially in capital cases ? Under this dis-
ppsition of things, will those who have influence with the
returning officer, exert that influence to prevent their
being returned ; and will those who cannot prevent their
being returned, but can pay a fine, , pay the fine ratherv
than perform the service ? Under this disposition, will
juries, in criminal, especially in capital cases, be compo-
sed— as we have seen them too often composed — chiefly
of such as have neither influence enough to avoid being
returned, nor money enough to pay a fine for their non-
aUendance?

In civil causes, the. business of the jury will be mfina-
ged and directed in the same manner as the business of
the court, and of every other publick body* Unanimity
will always be acceptable ; free and caiulid discussion

35»

LECtUlikS <rtl lAW.

will alwsqrs, be used : if they produte onatiimtty, k is welfe
if they reach not this hi^ aim, acquiescence wifl be
shown in the sentiment of the majority. This is tl*
conduct of legislators : this is the condtict of judges : wfaf
41i6ald.not this be the conduct t^ jurors I

* I mentioned, Aat, in man3r cases, a verdict may,
great projaiety,^ be composed of the sepatate scnthncnlSi
of the several jurors, reduced to whattnay he cdled thefts
avera^ result. This I now explain.

It has been observed — and the iiAscrvatlon Has beeii
illustrated at great length— that Ae power of jurffes is a
discretionary power. This discretionary power acrise»
from the nature of their office. Their office is to try the
truth of facts : the truth of facts is tried by their evi-
dence t the force of cvi^eace cannot be digested by ndes,.
nor formed into a r^utar system.

In many causes, there can be but two different senti«
ments. If, for instance, a suit be brought for the re<:6ve1fy^
of a horse ; there can be, among the jury, only two
opinions — ^that the plaintiff ought, and that he ought
riot, to recover.^ If there is a majority on either side,,
the voice of the majority should govern the verdict. H^
on each side, there be an equal number of opinions, the
verdict should be in favour of the possessor. ^ M^or est
conditio possidentis.'*

»

But there are many other causes, in which twenty
different opinions toay be entertained, as well as two ;
and there is no ilxed itile, by which die accuracy or
inaccuracy of any one of thetn can be ascertdned. An
•ction of slander, fol instance, is brou](htl>)r a youiig

woman to recmrer danuiges for an hijuty, whidb she hka
stxstained fay the defamation of her character* A variety
of opiniofis ina]r4)& formed, Without end, eoncetning the
partkukr sum which she ought to recover. Each of
those various opinimts may be composed from a variety
of combining circuntstances, the precise force of any of
which can nelwr be liquidated by ahy known nActlibds
i:ff cakulation* Those combining circumstances will ariW
firom llie situation afatdxharacter of the plamtiff, from the
situation and characterof the defendant, from the nature
and kind of the injury, and from the nature and extent
of the loss* In the mind of each of the jurors, ^cording
to his situation aiid character, each of those combining
circumstances may produce an effect, different from that
which is produced by them in the mind of every other
juror. The opinions, which are composed of those
circumstances operating thus differently, must, ofneces-
sity, be different. Each juror^ forms his own. The
Opinion of each has' an equal tide to regard. How shall
a verdict be collected from twelve opinions, no two of
which are the same? Let each pronounce the particular
sum, which, he thinks, the plaintiff ought to recover t
let the sums be added together : let the amount of the
whole be divided by twelve : let the sum produced by
this division form the verdict of the jury. In this man-»
ner I explain what I me^n by a verdict, " composed of
the separate sentiments of the several jurors, reduced to
wfcat may ht called Aeir average result.'^ This mode
of fbrming a verdict will, on many pccasions, be found
useful and satisfactory* r

Let^us, in the! last place, consider this subject as it
regards judges, Judges do not, indeed, undergo, but,.
With mdancholy, dympathetick f^^lingo^ they are obliged

3S% M^TUiMKa c#^ LAW.

10 wit&e«i-F-<4i»3F« they are obliged to be imtrttiiif»t9} h
the fe«l|&gs. ^hidi jar^ra uiidergi^ froan^die I»^iac^»lc
and the practice of unaniouty, as it is £requeiitlyvuBflm>
etood.

•■ — '

How oalural is it for a jwry^ wjoxf^down by tUist, gad
huBger, and want of sleep, dbtimcted^y altercatioB»4nHl
debates, bewikieired by Ae di^lculiiee aad embasraai|i»
ments by which those detotes aad^ ahjeifcatioDs wos^
produced — how natqjral is itior them to fly, for relief and
iastructioo, to the court! Before the eoiut they i^pear,
pale, anxioua, dejected i and beg the court to instruct and
relieve 4hein. On .the principle of unsmimity, as o&e^
received, what -can the co^irt do or advise i If they are
well disposed-— and we will presume them wi^ disposed
' —they will, with every miurk of compassionate attenticm
and regard, advise them to do— what, if they could
h|ive done, there wpuld have been no f^plication lor
advice*-^^^ gentlepien, we advise you to agree : retum to
your qh&mber ; confer ^geAer ; . reason together ; come
to an agreement ; fpr you must agree ; otherwise ^e
caimot receive your verdict." ^ ,

« I have presumed the, court to be weU diqiosed: for
this presumption, there is tM>t alw^^ys a sufficient ground.
In the celebrated trial of Willia^i Penn and William
Meade, four of the jurors diss^ited from the others.
The recorder of London, before whom the cause was
tried, addr^esaing himself to Mr. Bushel, one of the four
disjienters, said, Sir, you are the cause of thb disturb-
aause, and manifest show yourself an abett<»* of faction ;
I shall, set a mari; m you, Sir, Oentlen^n, said he
to the whole jury, you shall not be dismissed, till we
have a verdict that Ac coult will iiccept ; and yojji shall be

iscTtrftxs our i;aw» 9S9 .

JiDcked 1^ wklioiit meat, drinks fife, and tc^bftceo : we
will haire a verdict, by the help of God j or you sb^dl
eearve for it*'* /

But I have presuttied the court %0he well disposed.
ICthey really £re^ so, their situatidxi id, indeed* a distress-
§ai<me. They see before them a- body of tneti; iiiflrustea
1^ their country with the gteatest and inost intereathig
ponders : in the execution of this high trust-, they see
them suffering, thoergh not ofifetidi^g r from thosie unme^
rited sufferings, they feel themselves ^ttogethcrintfiipaA
Ue of Itffording relief. What, in this sitiiati^, is left
to the CQurt? The alternate emotions of compassion and
regret— compassion for those, whom they cannot aid—
regret, -because they cannot aid them. *

By reducing to practice the theory, which I have
iitated and explained, the judges wBlbe disbutthened df
nil that uneasiness, undei: which they Otherwise ' niust
labour ; and will, on every occasion, have it in theif
pbw6r to relieve and advise satisfactorily every jury,
who may apply to them for advice and relief. '

Is the jury sifting in a criminal cause I Are they atii
loss what to do i Do they pray the direction of the court?
The court may give them a series of directions, whieh,
one would imagine, must contaun a remedy for every
complaint.— Gentlemen, each of you must know the state
ef his own mind* Each of you must be clearly of opinion
that the prisoner ought to be convicted, or that he btight
t6 be acquitted; or you must be dotiAtfuI what opinion
you must form. If the first be the case, you ought t6

* ■ " " t u, - «

> 2.StiTr.613.614.

S60 I^SOTIfBIS im JLAfVc

f»ie fin* m convu»ciaa t i£ tklffr ot ikt^^Plm Imf^ be.tk^
cii«et youQtti^t to Tote.for maoquUt^K Whatwea^
ia the case of one, we say in the case of eveiy^jwe* Ijct.
every one, ther^ore^ govern his own vote by these di«
reclioiis;^ Whf n the vo^Df eaieh isjfoeiM^ i <2ie next step
is to <30mp^s(B 4bf( v^iidiet of ^U^fipoffi th^ v<^ ^ m^hM
Let the vo^^y ^hen^ Jie^t^ak^a t tl|fiy>9it»9l iH^#i|iieriiii«iu^
mws.or ii0t5iiu^ii||t|i|Bi^ if they; fU'e: dot ^nftnimMs, lei
«U agrfSf to a V:^rdic^ p( ncquiltai 4 if ^y are ^ssqi^
nmis, th^y n^nftC be uMnimous for acqaitt^l^ or for Mmn
Viotion : if the fit^rmttit th$ v^rfik^ is 9, v^^ of ncfuil^
fal : if ,th4 latter, the yerdict^is a vei^ict of ei^vtei«tt«*

V . - , ■'•■■■''■..' . . . ^

Is the jury fitting in a civil jpai^ i Are they, in tbii».
cause toO) a* a loss what to doi Dp th^y pray the ^irei;?
tion of the court i The court may^ in this cause too, give
1^1^411 aserte^i of satisfactory 4irpctiioQ;i«rrQ^^cAien,^caii
Duly two opinions be entertained concerning the cause
before you? If sos^ aiterfreely aifid ci^ndidly discussing
th^nuuter by friendly confer^ce s^mooy; yc^irselvesr let
each mak^ up his oym opinion ; let aU the opinions be
collected : if their^ be a xnajority on either side, let all agree
to a verdict in favour of that side: if there is an equality
^ votes oil (iKach.iiide, let the verdipt he given in favour
of possession* May any indefinite number of opinions
be entertained concerning the cause, before yqn?. Let
eachjuror foi7nhi$ ow^: let the, verdict <^on^tQf the
average result of all*

' ' ' . . • .';.'' ■ : •' *

. I truf ^ I h^ve now sh^wn^, ^t, by re4u<:ipg to prac*
tice the theory, which I have advanced 09 the subject pf
l3&Qildmity .in jury trials, vmj^ solid advantages woidd
result from it to jv^ges, to juries, and to parties. I trust,
i have established t]w tlhllpiy ojievery pillar on which a

, ^ X.SCTURES OH Z.4Vf 561

legal thepvy cao^be hiislt«HWi precedent—Non autiiority-^
QQ principle.

To sdl ^ nationst'iiiduch 8iraniied>&oi&.the iiortheni
liive^ the trial, by jury ^as commoo: tanone of them,
the principle «of uxumimity was kpown.

I here fiouh what, ait present^ I propose to «ay^
coAccming the doctrine of uoanimity in the trial by jury;

Of juries there are two kinds; a grand jury, and a
traverae jury. The institution of the grand Jury is, lit
•least in the pres^it times, the pecidiar boast of the com-
mon law* In the annals of the worUl^ there cannot be
found an institution so well fitted for avoiding abuses,
which might otherwise arise from malice,^ from rigour^
frotn negligence, orirom partidity, in the prosecution of
crimes.

« In Athens, we can discover the vestiges of an insti-
4ntion, which bears a resemblance, though a very slight
one^ to diat of grand juries. There was among them a
^ (previotLs inquiry befcire that trial, ki which the final sen*
•eence wa» pronounced.

*

In cases of murder, the relations of the deceaaed
alone had aright to prosecute. ^ There is' an evident re-
semblance between this regulation, and that part of the
Ik^ of England, which relates to prosecutions by appeal.
When crimes ^W^ere committed immediately against the
govemmi^t of Athens, every citizen might step forward
as thie prosecutor ; for an injtury offered to die com-

i 3. 66g. Or. I^jrt
yQU II. 3 A '

I

I

i62 Lie'niftss on lav*

*

monwealdi W9S contidered m pevsonal lo etch of ht
meinben*

AmoDg the Romans^ too, any one of the citizens was
peimitted to prosecute a publick offence. Wi& all our
predilecUon^ however, for those celebrated republicks,
we must admit, that these regpulations were extremely
^iqudicious, and produced mischiefs of very dai^jcrous,
though of very opposite kinds. Prosecutions were, on
some occasions, undertaken from motives of rancour
and reveaoge. On other occasions, a friend, a dependent,
perhaps a confederate, of the criminal officiously engaged
to prosecute him, with a view to ensure his impunity.
Of diis we have a remarkable instance, in the case of tlie
infamous Verres* Coecilius, hJMft creature and associate,
disputed with Cicero the right of accusing him. The
preference was adjudged to Cicero, in a process knovm
by the name of divinatiom

There was a time, says Beccaria, when the crimes
ef the subject were the inheritsince of the prince.i J^
jfU^h a time probably it was, than the judge himseU be*
eitmt the prosecutor. In several of the feudal nations^
this was, indeed, the case. The gross imprc^rie^of tlua
regulation appears at the first view* The prosecutor is
a party : without the last necessity, the^j^osecutor ou^t
not to be both a party and a judge..

Among the Saxpi^, as we are infonned by |if r. $d[«
den, besides the satisfaction recovered by the party in-
jured, there was a way found out to punish the offender
by indictment* The difference, adds he, between

iBeccir

iBGHUftSS ON LAW. 3^3

former Indictmeats and those jin these days^ conaista in
this, that the gncient indicttnents were in the name of
one man ; those of the latter sort are in the name of the
jury^ Time and experience, continues he, refined this
way of trial into a more excellent condition. ^

In the reign of Henry the third, the presentment of
offences was made by a jury of twelve, returned for every
hundred in the county. But towards the latter end of
the reign of Edward the third, another improvement was
introduced into the institution of grand juries. Besides
the jury for every hundred, the sheriff returned a jury
for the county, which was termed " the griind. inquest."
When this grand inquest inquired for the whole body of
the county, the business of the' hundred inquest, and
the whole trust wd duty of making presentments and
finding indictments, naturally devolved upon the grand
jury.*

A presentment is an accusation brought forward by
the grand jury of their own mere motion. An indict-
ment is a particular charge laid, by the publick prosecur
tor, before the grand jury, and found by them to be
true.

The trust reposed in grand juries is of great and ge*
neral concernment. To them is committed the custody
of the portals of the law, that into the hallowed dome
no injustice may be permitted to enter. They make, in
the first instance, the important discrimination between
the innocent and the guilty. To the former, they give

^ Bac on Gov. 53, 54, S7. ^ 3. Reev. 210, 311,

564 LtCTtlAES OH XAW.

ft passport of security : the latter diey consign to a final
trial by a traverse jtiry.

The mailner, in which grand juries ought to make their.*
inquiries, welt deserves to be attentively considered. It
has been declared by some, that grand jucies are only to
inquire, *^ whether what they hear be any reason to put
the party to answer" — ^^ that a probable cause to call iiim
to answer, is as much as is required 1>y law." But, in-
deed, such a declaration is very litde consonant to the
oath — die best evidence of the law — ^which every grand
juryman ii obliged to take. He swears, that h^ will in*
quire diligently. As little is such a declaration conso-
nant to ancient authority and practice.' ^^ In those days,^
says my Lord Coke,"* speaking of the reign of Edward
the first — -^' in those days (as yet it ought to be) indict-
ments, taken in the absence of the party, were formed
upon plain and direct proof, and not upon probabilities
or inferences." Still as little is such a declaration con-
sonant to the voice of reason and sound sense. An in-
dictment has been styled, and with no small degree of
propriety, the verdict of the grand jury. ** It ought to
itnpoit all the truth which is requisite bylaw ; and every
-part material ought to be found by the oath of the in-
dictors." Now, is it consistent with reason or sound
sense, that a verdict found upon oath-^upon an oath to
make diligent inquiry-— should be the vague, perhaps the
visionary, result merely of probability? Ought not mo-
ral certainty to be deemed the necessary basis of what
IS delivered, under the sianction of an obligation so so-
lemn and so strict I

n 3. Int. 364

i

I.ECTWRSS OK lAir. MS

Tlie (loetrine, that a grand j\iry may rejit satisfied
merely with probabilhies, is a doctrine dangerous as well
as unfounded : it is a doctrine, which may be applied to
toufitenance and promote the vilest and most oppres-
sive purposes : it ittay be used, in pemiciou& rotation^
as a ^nare, in which the innocent may be entrapped, and
as a screen, under die cover of which the guilty maty
escape.

' r

It has been alleged, that grand juries are confined, in
their inquiries, to the bilk offered to them, to the crimes
given them in charge, and to the evidence brought be;^
fore them by the prosecutor. But these conceptions are
much too contracted : they present but a very imperfect
and unsatisfactory viei^ of the duty required from grand
jurors, and of the trust reposed in them. They are not
appointed for the prosecutor or for the court: they are

• appointed for the government and for the people : and of
both the government and people it is surely the concem-

. ment, that, on one hand, all crimes, whether given or
not given in charge, whether described or hot described
with professional skill, should receive the punishment,
which the law denounces ^ and that, on the 6iher hand,
innocence, however strongly assailed by accusations
drawn up in regular form, and by accusers marshalled
in legal array, should, on fuH investigation, be secure
in that protection, wliich the law engages that she shall
enjoy inviolate. "

The oath of a grand juryman — and his oath is the
commission, under which he acts^-'-assigns no limits,
except those marked by diligence itself, t<E> the course ef
his inquiries : why, then, should it be circumscribed by
more contracted boundaries i Shall diligent inquiry be

306 I^ECTVUXS 0« XAir*

enjoined ^ And shail the mesois and opfiortilnities of
inquiry be prohibited or restrained i

^ ■ ' . " '

The grand jury wre a great channel of communication^
between those who make and administer the laws, and
those for whom the laws are made: and administeied*
All the operations of government, and of its n^nistera
and officers, are within the compass of their view and
research. They may suggest publick improvements, and
the modes of removing puhlick inconyeniences : they
may expose to publick inspection) or to publick punish-
ment, publick bad men, and publick bad measures*

The relative powers of courts and juries form an
interestitig subject of inquity. t^onceming it, different
opinicms have been entertained ; and it is' of much con-
Sequence, in the study and in the practice too of the.
law, that it be clearly and fully understood. I shall
treat it in the same manner, in which I have treated
other questions of great importance : I shidl esLamine it
historically and on principle.

From a statute made in the thirteenth year pf Edward
the first, usually called the statute of Westminster the
second, " it appears, that the contest between judges and
juries concerning their relative powers ran, at that time^
in a direction very different from that which it has taken
since. The judges, then, were disposed to compel the
jury to find the law as well as the fact : the jury were
disposed to show /the truth of the fact only, and to refer
to the court the determination of the law. The statute
interposed, and declared the discretionary power of the

/

LECTUIUSS ON LAW* 367

jury to do which of the two they thought most proper.
*'^ It is ordained, that the justicest assigned to take assizes
shall Qot compel the jurors to say precisely, whether it
is or is not a disseisin." A general verdict of this kind
included the question of law as well as the question of
fact. ^^ It is sufficient that they show the truth of the fact,
lind pray the assistance of the justices. But if they
will voluntarily say, whether it is or is not a disseisiii^
their verdict shall be received at their own peril."

This statute; recognised the law as it thei) stood, but
introduced ndnew law. We are informed by my Lord
Coke, in his commentary on it,^ that in all actions,
real, personal, and mixedy and upon all issues joined,
general or special, the jury might find the special m^>-
ter, of fact pertinent and tending only to the issue joined,
tt^d might. pray the discrietion of the court for the law*
This the jurors inijght do at. the comtnon law, not only
^i; cases between, party and p^rty, of which the statute
puts an example of the assize ; but also in pleas of the
crown at the suit of the king* This. statute, therefore,
like many others of the, ancient atatutes, isonlyin.affirm^
unce of the comQiQn Jiaw. ? .

T '

> " ' '

Bracton, who wrote rn^the reign- of Henry the thiwl,
tells us^^ that a distinction was commonly taken between
the provinces of the judges and jutors in this manner-^
truth is to be displayed by the jury ; justice and judg-
ment by the court. Yet, says he, it seems that judg-
ment sometimes belongs to. the jurors, when they declaim
upon their oath, whether such a , one disseised or 4i|l
Aot djisseise such a ow i according to which dedara-

•2.hifi.4^» p9.Rcp.i3;. ^BractlS^b.

368 • zXGTU&ss on ZAWm

«

iioiif die jj[i4gttieiit of the court is rendei^d. But^ Bdd^bt,
as it belongs to the judges to pronounce a just judgment,
it is incumbent on them diligently to weigh and examine
what is said by the jury, that they themselves may not
be misled by the jury's mistakes*

We have the high authority of Littleton, diat, in cases
where the jury may give their verdict at large — in oUietr
words, a special verdict, stating the facts, and praying
the decision of the court as to the law — ^they may, if
they will take upon them the knowledge of the law,
give their verdict generally, ' as is.put in their charge* ''

In a ease determined in the reign df Queen Edi^abeth^
it was objected, that a juiy cocdd not give a apeci^I
verdict upon a special and coUat^al issue ; but that, in
auch case, the jury ought to give a precise and catego-
rical answer to the question arising from s^ch special
issue. It was resolved, however, unanimously Jby the
court, diat the law will not compel the jurors to take
4ipon them the knowledge of points in law, either in
4tases of profMVty, or ill diose which concern life ; send
that it will not compel even the jndges to give their
opinions of questions and doubts in law upon the sudden j^
but^ in sncb cases, the truth of the fects should be found;
and, after constderaikion and- conference, the question
should be determined according to< the law."

III thii famous trial of John Lilbume, for publishing
a^book, entided, an impeadiB^ient of hig^- treason against
Oliver Cron»well, we hear a kln||;uage, very -different
•from that) tb< which w« ha^ hidifei^'b^en accustpmed.

** Lit 1 36$. 1. Ins. 1238^ • 9. Rep. XI. b. 13.

££CTUlt£S OH X>AW« , 369

I

(

-"* I*et ,^ltbe bearers know" — ^said Mn Justice Jerstin,
sk judgje of the upper bench) a;s it was jealled during the
commonweakh, and who was one of the commissioners
appointed in the e^xtraordinary commission of oyer and
terxainer for the trial of Mr. Lilbume — " Let all the
bearers know, the jury ought ^p take notice of it^ that
the judgeSf that are sworn, that are twelve in number, .
^ey hayc ever been the judges of the law, frojn the fir§t
lime that ever we can read or hear that the law was truly
es^pressed in Englaind: and the jury are only judges,
whether such a thing were done or no ; they are only
j^ud^a of maUer of feet." ' Lord Commissioner Keble
delivers it as the opinion of the court, that " the jury
are judges of matter of fact altogether f but that they are
not judges of master of law." ^ The prisoner urged the
authority of my Lord Coke, that the jury were judges
of the law as well as of the fact ; but, by a mistake,
mentioned the book as a commentary upon Plowden
instead of Littleton. The court told him there was no
such book ; that they knew it a little better than he did.
He pressed to read it ; and said that it, was an easy mat-
ter for an abler man than? him, in so many interruptions
as he met ^ith, to ntjatake Plowden for Littleton. " You
Gacinot"*^these are the words of Judge Jermin, as men-
Uoned in the report of the tri^l--*^' you cannot be suffer-
ed to read the law: you have broached an erroneous i
opinion, that the j.ury are the judges of the law, which
Ui enough to destroy all the law in the land-; there was
tteve? sueb a dinnnable heresy broached in this nation
before."^ Mr. Lilburnepersiste4y however, and read his
authorities.

frS.StTrikl« uU<»9i ^W.iWd,

VOL, lit 3i^

.;3^ LSCTUftES OK LAV.

** Extremes in nature equal ^nds produce/' As were
aome of the judges undo: Cromwell^ so were sovalt of
the judges under Charles the second. We have had
occasion to take some notice of the trial of William Pens
and William Meade. The jury, at ls»t, agreed cm a
rerdict of acquittal. This verdict the court could not
refuse ; but they fined each of the jurors forty maak%
far giving it, ^ because it was against the direction of
tfie court in matter of law." ^ The jurors were impari-
•oned tin they should pay the fines. Mn BusheS^, xmt
of them, sued a writ of hi6eas corpus out of the couit
of commoA pleas* His case was heard and determined
- there ; and the cause of commitment was adjudged to be
insufficient, and Mr. Bu shell was discharged.

To what 6Bd-»*4aid Lord Chief Jnitice Vaugfem, in
delivering the opinie^ of the €ourt--^to what end are
jurors challenged so scrupulousl}' to the array and the
poll i To what end must they be true and lawful men,
and not of affinity with the parties concerned ? To what
end must they have, in many cases, 1^ view, for dieir
exacter information chiefly i To what end must they
undorgotiie heavy punishment of the vill^nous judgment ;
U^ after all this, they must impHcidy give a verdH^ct by the
dictates and authority of another man, under pain of fines
" aasd imprisonment, when sworn to do it according to the
best of their own knowledge I A man cannot see by an-
other's eye, nor hear by another's ear ; no m6re can a
man cottclnde on infer the thing to be resc^pd, by an*
o&er*stmderstanding or reasoning*

Upon aH general issues, the jury find not the fact of
every case by iuelf, l^avingthe law to the court ; but find

* .

LECTU&Efl OV LAW* Z7l

ibr the plaintiff or defc^ndant upon the issue tried, where-
in Aey resolve both law and fact complicately, and not
fbi^ fact by iff elf. ,

Ineveiy caae, says the lat^ Sir Michael Foster, wh^e
the point turneth upon the question, whether the, homi-
cide was comipitted .wilfully and maiiciouslyi or und^
circomatances justifying, excusing, or alleviating; the
ixiatter ^fact, to wit, whether the facts alleged by way pf
justificalion, excuse, or alleviation be true, is the propet
4iod only province of the jury. But whether, upon a sup-
positioit of the truth of the facts, such homicide be justi-
fied, excused, or alleviated, must be submiUed to the
judgment of the courts ^

It is of the greatest consei^uence, says my Lord Hard-
wtcke, to the kw of Ei^land, that the powers of the judget
aad jury be kept distinct : that the judges determine the
law, and that the jury determine the fact.'

This well knowti division between their provinces baa
been long recognised and established. When the ques«
tion of law and the question t>f fact can be decided sepa^
rately ; -there is no doubt or difficulty in saying, by whom
the separate decision shall be made. If, between the

' parties litigant, there is no contention concerning the
faets, but an issue is joined upon a question of law, as is
die case in a demurrer ; the determination of this ques-^

^ tion, and the trial of this issue, belongs exclusively to the
judges. On the other hand, when there is no question
concerning the law, and the controversy between the
parties depends entirely upon a matter #f fact ; the de-

"" Vaiq^ 148.15a r Feet 315. > Hardw.36.

«

t

J

»^

5ff t^ECTURSS tm LAW*

termination of this matter, brought to an issue, belongs
exclusively to the jury. But, hi many casesy the qaestton
of law is intimately and inseparably blended, widi the
question of fact : and when this is the case, the decision
of one necessarily involves the decision of the other*
When this is the case, it (s incumbent on the judges to
inform the jury concerning the law ; and it is ineuttbent
oa the jury to pay much regard to the information, whiefe
they receive from the judges. But now tl}e difficulty, m
this interesting subject, begins to press upon us. Suppose,
that, after all the precautions taken to avoid it, a differ^
ence of sentiment takes place between die judges and thei
jury, widi regard to a point of law : suppose the law and the
fact to be so closely interwoven, that a determination of
one must, at the same time, embrace the determination of
the other : suppos,e a matter of this description to come
in trial before a jury«--what must the jury do f-^«-The .
juiy must do their duty, and their whole duty : they must
decide the law as well as the fact*

This doctrine is peculiarly applicable to criminal cases ;
and from them, indeed, derives its peculiar importance*
When a person is to be tried for a crime, the accusation '
charges against him, not only the particular fact which he .
has committed, but also the motive, to which it owed its
origin, and from which it receives its complexion. The
first is neither the only, nor the principal object of exami-
nation and discussion. On the second, depends the iniio*
cence or criminality of the action. The verdiet must '
decide not only upon the first, but also, and principattf,
upon the second : for the verdict must be coextpnsive and
commensurate with the charge.

It may seem, at first view, to be somewhat extraordi-
nary, that twelve ;men, untutored in the study of juris-

tKCTURfiS OH LAW. JT3 »

prttdence) ^botild be the ultimate interpreters of the law,'
with a' power to overriile the directions of the judges,
* who have made it the subject of their long and elaborate
researches, and have been raised to the seat of judgment
for their professional abilities and skill.

Btit a deeper examination of the subject will reconcile
us to what, at first, may appear incongruous. In criminal
eases, the design, as has been already intimated, is closely
interwoven With the transaction ; and the elucidation of
both depends on a collected view of particulars, arising
not only froni the testimony, but also from the character
and conduct of the witnesses, and sometimes also from
the character and conduct of the prisoner. Of all these,
the jury are fittest io make the proper comparison and
estimate ; and, therefore, it is most eligible to leave it to
thenl, after receiving the direction of the court in matters
-of law, to take into their consideration all the circum-
' stances of the case, the intentioii as well as the facts, and
to determine, upon the whole, whether the prisoner has
or has not been guilty of the crime, with which he i«
charged.

Juries undoubtedly may make mistakes : they may
commit errours : they may commit gross ones. But
dhanged as they constantly are, their errours and mis-
takes can never grow into a dangerous system. The
native uprightness of their sentiments will not be bent
under the weight of precedent and authority. The esprit
du corps will not be introduced among them ; nor will
society experiente from them those mischiefs, of which
the esprit du corps, unchecked, is sometimes productive.
Besides, their mistakes and their errours, except the ve-
nial ones on the side of mercy made by traverse juries,
UCTVJl£ft OH LAW.

are not without redress. Of im indictment found fajr a
grand jury^ the person indicted may be acquitsed om. his
trial. If a bill be returned ^^ ignoramus'' improperly, the
accusation may be renewed before another grand jary»
With regard to the'tmverse jury, the court, if disnitisfied
with their verdict, have the power, and will exercise ihe
power, of granting a new trial. This ^weri| whUe it
prevents or corrects the effectaof their errourSf pr^Mrvj^
the jurisdiction of juries, unimpaired. The cause is not
evoked before a tribunal of another kind. A jury ^ the
country-^an abstract, as it has been called, of the citizena
at large, — summoned, selected, impannelled, and svorq.
as the former, must stUl decide.

One thing, however, must not escape our attention*
In the cases and on the principles,, which we have men*
tioned, jurors possess the power of determining legal *
questions. But they must determine those questicm^y as
judges must determine them^ according, to law. The .
discretionary powers of jurors find no place for exertion
here. Those powers they possess as triers of facts ; be.-
cause, as we have already observed, the trial of facts
depends on evidence ; and because the force of evidence
cannot be ascertained by any generid system of rules*
But law, particularly the common law, is governed by
precedents, and customs, and authorities, and maxims.;
those precedents, and customs, and authorities, and max-
ims are alike obligatory upon jurors as upon judges, in
deciding questions of law.

True it is, according to the sentiment of my Lord
Hardwicke, that it is of the greatest consequence to pre«
serve the separate and distinct powers of the judges and
the juries. But equally true it is, that those sepairate and

LECTITRES ON LAW. 3T6

dUiitict powers may be rendered reciprocally beneficial,
by the most pleasing and harntonious cooperation*

In favour of a conclusion of this kind, the conduct of
juries bears ample testimony. The examples of their
tcfsistkig the advice of a judge, in points of law, are rare,
except where they have been provoked into such an oppo-
sition by the grossness of his own misconduct, or betrayed
into an unjust suspicion of his integrity by the misrepre-
sentation of others* In civil cases, juries almost univer-
sally find a special verdict, as often as the judges recom-
mend it to them. . In criminal cases, indeed, special
verdicts are less frequent : but this happens, not because
juries have an^ aversion to them, but because such cases
depend more on the evidence of facts, than on any diffi-
culties arising in points of law.

Nor is it a small merit in this arrangement, that, by
means of it, every one who is accused of a crime may, '
on his plea of *' not guilty," enjoy the advantages of a
trial, in which the judges and the juiy are to one ano-
ther a mutual check, and a mutual assistance. This
point deserves from us a full illustration.

Some things appear, at the first view, to be alike,
which, upon a close inspection, are found to be mate-
rhdly diffei^nt. To a puperficial observer, no very im^-
portant distinction would seem to arise, between the
credibility and the competency of evidence. Between
them, however, a most important distinction subsists*
They spring from different sources ; they run in different
directions ; and, in the division of power between the
court and the jury, they are, with great propriety, allot-
ted to different provinces. In some instances, indieed.

376 " I.ECTURES ON LAW*

the Hne of division i& scarcely percepiible ^ but, even in
those instances^ the law points out a proper mode of
management*

Evidence is of two kinds, written and oraL In each
kind, the important distinc^tioa between its competency
and its credibility takes place. In oral evidence, bow^
ever, or the testimony of witnesses, the distincticm id the
most important; and, for this reason, it ahould be
clearly known and strictly preserved*

The excellency of the trial by jury, aays the great
and good Lord Chief Justice Hale, is, thitt they are the
triers of the credit of the witnesses, as weU as the truth
of the fact : it is one thing whether a witness is admisr
sible to be heard : whether, when he is heard, he is to
be believed, is another thing. ^
It is a known distinction, says Lord Chief Justice
Willes, in a very celebrated cause, Aat the evii£ence^
though admitted, must still be left to the persons who
try the causes, to give what credit to it they please. ^

That I may observe it once for all, says Lord Chief
Justice Hale, in another place, the exceptions to a wit-
ness are of two kinds. 1 . Exceptions to the credit of
the witness, which do not at idl disable him from being
sworn, but yet may blemish the credibili^ of hiB XeaA>'
mony ; in such, case, the witness is to he allowed^i bat
the eredit of his testimony-is left to the juvyr ^^^^ <^>^
jttdi^a of thr fisurt, and likewise of the probdhility or
impnebafaility, cradibiiily g» incredibifity of the

LECTURES ON LAW. ZTT

aod his testimony ; these exceptions are of such great
variety and multiplicity, that they cannot easily be
reduced under rules or instances. 2. Exceptions to the
competency of the witness, which exclude him from
giving his testimony : and of these exceptions the court
is the judge.®

The writers on the civil law, to which the trial by jury
has, for many ages, been unknown, have attempted to
reduce the credibility and incredibility of testimony
under rules and instances \ but their attempts have
shown, what, indeed, has been likewise shown from the
nature of the thing, that such a reduction is not only not
easy, as my Lord Hale says, but is altogether and abso-
lutely impracticable.

Evidence ' is, by those civilians, distinguished into
different degrees — into full probation ; into probation less
than full } into half probation. The deficiency in half
probation is made up, sometimes by torture, sometimes
by the suppletory oath of the party. ^ Concerning circum^
stantial proofs, rules, unsatisfactory because unfouttdedy
have been heaped upon rules, volumes^ have been heaped
upon volumes, and evidence has been added, and divi-
ded, and subtracted, and multiplied, like pounds, and
shillings, and pence, and farthings. In the parliament of
Toulouse, we are told by Voltaire,*^ they admitted of
quarters and eighths of a proof. For instance, one hear-
say was considered as a quarter ; another hearsay, more
vague, as an eighth ; so that eight vague hearsays,
which, in fact, are no more than the reverberated echos .
of a report, perhaps originally groundless, constitute a

c 2. HUe. P. C. ^6. A Com. onBec c. 22.

VOL. IX. 3 c

3T8 LECTURES ON LAW.

full proof. Upon this principle it wais, that poor Catas^
was condemned to the wheeU

Evidence is that which produces belief** Belief is a^
simple act of the mind, more easily experienced thaa
describe^. Its degrees of strength or weakness cannot^
like those of heat and cold, be ascertained by the pre^
cise scale of an artificial thermometer. Their eifects,
however, are naturally fek and distinguished by a sound
and healthful! mind. With great propriety, therefore,
the common law forbears to attempt a scale or system
of rules, concerning the force qr credibility of evidence :,
it wisely leaves them to the unbiassed and unadulterated
sentimeftts and impressions of the jury. But with regai^d
to the propriety or competency of evidence, the case i*
ver}' different. This subject is susceptible of systeso.
and of rule. This subject, therefore, is wisely com.«
initted to the information and experience of the
juciges.

The most general and the most conspicuous rule
with Regard to the competency of evidence, is, that the'
best, of which the nature of the fact in question is capa-
ble, must be produced, if it can be produced : if it cannot
be produced, then the best evidence, which can be
obtained, shall be admitted. Both the parts of this.
rule are founded on the most solid reason. To reject,,
as incompetent, the strongest evidence which can be
procured, would be rigid, and unaccommodating to tb€^
various vicissitudes of life and business. Ta admit an
inferiour kind of evidence, when evidence of a superiour
nature is withheld, would prevent that degree of satis-
faction in the minds of the jurors, which evidence should
be fitted to produce^ Evidence produces belief: the

V tECTURBB oir LAW. 979

^0B|[e8t evidence produces the strongest belief: whj
)s the strongest evidence withheld I The party, in whose
power it is, can have no motive for withholding it, unless
he is conscidUs that it would disclose sotnething^ which
has interest requires to be concealed* The satisfactory
Administration of justice, therefore, demands, that h
should be laid before the jury.

*
The application of this rule is most extensive. What
ought or ought not to be presumed in the. power of the
party, must be collected by a full and intimate knowledge
or information concerning the business and transactions
of life. The most authentick materials of information
and knowledge are furnished by juridical history— -a
subject deservedly the professional study of judges of dif
common law*

* Another rule, of high import in the adjninistratioft
of justice, is, that evidence, in order to be admitted,
xniist have a proper degree of connexion with the ques-
.tion to be tried : in legal language, it must be pertinent
to the issjie. A variety of evidence, unconnected with
€be point specified' by the record for the examination
of the jury, would have a tendency to bewilder their
minds, and to prevent that strict and undivided atten-
tion, which is so indispensable to the satisfactory inves-
tigation of that, which they are empowered and intrusted
to decide.

The evidence proper to be given in each of the nume-
rous kinds of issues, which come before a jury, forms a
y^ry interesting portion of legal knowledge. At present,
we can only show the principle and the importance of that
accuracy, which the law requires in the admission of

^80 LSGTVREft OK LAW.

t

evidence. The preservation of this accuracy is fitif
committed to the experience of the judges.

With regard to oral evidence, or the testiratony of
witnesses, the rule of the law is, that proper testimony
may be received from the mouth of evoiy intelligent
person, who is not infamous or interested. Concerning
the points of intelligence, of infamy, -and of interested-
ness, a great variety of rules are established by the
law. To apply those rules to cases which occur in the
course of practice, is, with obvious propriety, allotted
to the judges*

In one of those subjects, however— -I mean the inte-
rest of witnesses— the line of division, between the
province of the judges and that of the jury, is faintly
marked, and difficult to be ascertained. The degrees of
interest are so numerous, and the effects of the saine
degree of interest upon different characters and in differ-
ent situations are so diversified, that it is impracticable,
in many instances, to define exactly the precise bouiidary,
at which the question of competency ends, and the
question of credibility begins. In doubtful cases of this
description, the judges, especially of late years, presume
in favour of the province of the jury. This is done with
great reason. For an objection, urged, without success,
against the competency of a witness, may be urged suc^
cessfuUy against the credibility of his testimony ; and to
the objecting party it is altogether immaterial, whether
the testimony of the witness is rejected or disbelieved*
When an objection, says my Lord Hardwicke, is made
against a witness, it is best to restrain it to his credit*

LECTURES ON LAW*
unless it is like to introduce great perjury ; because it
tends to let in light to the cause. ' ■

I

s

In arranging and in summing up the evidence, the
court, from their knowledge and e^^perience of business,
can giVe great assistance to the jury. In questions ^of
law emerging from the evidence, the assistance of the
court is still more necessary and essential. Lord Chief
Justice Hale observes,' that a judge may be of much ad-
vantage to the jury, by showing them his opinion even
in matter of fact.^ Of the sentiment of a judge so ex-
emplary in his delicacy as well as in his candour, I
risk not the disapprobation ; but I add, that this power
can never be exercised with a reserve too cautious.

We have seen, by a number of instances, how, in this
administration of justice, the jury receive assistance front
the judges. Let us now see how the judges receive as-
sistance from the jury.

*' Ex facto oritur jus." The jury lay the foundation
of truth, on which the judges erect the superstructure of
law. A correct statement of the facts, every profes-
ftional gentleman knows, is necessary to an accurate re«
port. A true verdict given by the jury, is an essential
prerequisite to a just judgment pronounced by the court.
Judgihents < in supposed cases may abundantly evince
professional skill ; but they will never have a decisive in-
fluence over society — they will never come home to the
business and bosoms of the citizens- — ^unless they are
practically founded on the manners, and characters, and
Tights of men. The manners, the characters, and the

^ Hardw. 36o.

f Hale. Hist ^^.

083 IfiCTU&Sfl ON l^AW. _

rights d^ men are truly and practically reported by the
verdicts of juries*

To judges of a proper disposition, the assists^nce of
juries is soothing as well as salutary* In.crimin^ cases,
it is unquestionably so. ^^ To say the truth"— *I use the
language of thehumtoe LordChief Justice Hale"— *4t were
the moat unhappy case that could be to the judge, if he^
at his peril, must take upon him the guilt or innocence
of the prisoner, and if the judge's opimon moat rule the
matter of fact." «

Take upon him the guHt or innocence of the prisoner !
It may be soothing, indeed, to judges, to .be relieved
from this mental burt;^en,* of all the most anidous : but
upon wbom^-methinks J hear a citizen ask— upon whom
must this most anxious of all mental. burthens be laid?
How must it be bom by those on whom it is laid i

This very serious and momentous question brings be-
fore us the trial, by jury in a view, the sublimity of
which I have often admired in silence ; but which now
— though I feel myself far inferiour to the task — I must
endeavour to describe and explain. I solicit your candid
indulgence, while I attempt to delineate the particulars,
of which this prospect, magnificent and interesting, is
composed ; and then try, with unequal efforts, to convey
the impression which naturally wiU result from the com-
bination of the whole.

It will be necessary to review some principles, of
which notice has been already taken in the course of my

g3.Hsle.P.C* 313.

LECTtTRES ON LAW» 3SS

lectures. In a former part of them h I observed, that,
whea society was formed, it possessed jointly all the
previously separate and independlint powers and rights
of the individuals who formed it, and all those other
powers Jjnd rights which result from the social union. I
observed, that all those powers and rights were collected,
in order to be enjoyed and exercised ; that, in a nume.
rous and extended society, all those powers could not^
indeed, be exercised personally ; but that they might ,be
exercised by representation. I asked, whether one power
might not be delegated to one set of men? and whether ano-
ther power might not be delegated to another set of men ?
alluding to the legislative and executive departnients. I.
mentioned a third power of pociety — that of administer-
ing justice under the laws. I asked, whether this power
might not be partly delegated, and partly retained in
personal exercise ; because, in the most extended com-
munities, an important part of the administration of jus*
tice may be discharged by the people themselves. I
mentioned, that all this has been done, as I should have
the pleasure of showing, wjien I should come to examine
our governments, and to point out, by an enumeration
and comparison of particulars, how beautifully, how re-
gularly, and how usefully, we have established, by our
practice in this country, principles concerning the distri-
bution, the arrangement, the reservation, the direction^
and the uses of that publick power, of which the just
theory is still unknown in other nations.

I have had the pleasure of explaining the powers,
legislative, executive, and judicial, which the people
have delegated ; I come now to that part of the judicial

> Ante. vol. 1. p. 189^1S1.

I
864 ^ LECTURES ON LAW.

authority, which they retain in persoi^al exercise^*^!
mean, the authority to decide in criminal cases ; in cases,
especially, of life and^eath.

This may be consi4ered in two different points of light;
as a power, and as a burtheq* As a burthen, it is consider-
ed as too heavy to be imposed, as a power, it is con-
sidered as tQO great to be conferred, permanently upon
any man, or any organized body of men* We have
seen it a discretionary— ^o far it partakes of a legislative
power. - We have seen that, in large and extended com-
munities, necessity directs the delegation of other legis-
lative power. This is a species of legislative power,
which may, and therefore should, be exercised in per-
son. In cases of life and death, the standing juris-
diction remains with the people at large. As emer-i
gencies occur, an abstract of the people is selected for
the occasional exercise of it. The moment that the oc-
casion is over, the abstracted selection disappears among
the* general body of the citizens. No one citizen, there-
fore, any more than any other, can complain of this, as
an uneasy burthen. Except on particular occasions^
and during those occasions, it is imposed on no one.

If jurisdiction in cases of life and death, considered
as a burthen, is uneasy to those who bear it ; consider-
ed as a power, it is tremendous to those who behold it.
A man, or a body of men, habitually clothed with a
power over the lives of their fellow citizens ! These arc
objects formidable indeed. By an operation, beautiful
and sublime, of our juridical system, objects so formida-
ble are withdrawn from before the eyes of our citizens
—objects so formidable do not exist. To promote an
habitual courage, and dignity^ and independence of sen^

JtECTHREft OK J^jkMf.. M5

jtiment and of actions in the citizens^ should be the aim
of every wise and good government. How much are
these principles promoted^ b^^ this beautiful and subHme
effect of our judicial system. No particular citizen can
threaten the exercise of this tremendous power : with
the exercise of this tremendous power, no particular eiti-
zen can be threatened. Even the unfortunate prisoner^
the day of whose trial is come, the jury for whose trial
are selected^ impannelled, and returned— *even this nn»
fortunate prisoner cannot be threatened with the exercise
of this tremehdous power by any particular citizen*
When he comes to the bar and looks upon the prisoner,
a single superciUous look wiU produce a peremptory re.
jection.

Uncommonly jealous is the coiMtituti<»i of lite United
States and that of «Pennsylvania'upon this subject, so in*
teresting to the personal independence of the citizens*
The formidable power we have mentioned is inter-
dicted even to the legislatures themselves. Neither
congress nor the general assembly of -this common*
wealth, can pass any act of attainder for treason or
felony.^ Now, an act of attainder is a legislative vern
diet.

I have said, that this authority remains with the peo*
pie at large. Potentially, indeed, it does; actually, it
cannot be said to remain even, with them. The cdn*
trivance is so admirably exquisite concerning this ti^e*
mendous jurisdiction, that, in the general course of
things, it exists actually no where. But no sooner does.

i Cons. U. S. Art. 1. s. 9. G^nsrfenn; Art 9. s. 18.
VOL. 11. 3 p ^

3i6 I^CCTURISS ON l.A;V»

9Xky patticular emergency call for its operataofloi, 'dtan it
starts into immediate eitistence*

But it remains, that I give sati^factioft irkh regard ta
the inquiry'-^how shall this burthen, attended with so
«iuch tmeiteiness, he bom by those, upon whovi^
Aotxgh only occasiona&y, it is laid I

It is, we acknowledge, a most weighty burthee. That
man mtist, indeed, be callous to seosihility, who, with*
out amotion and anxiety, can deliberate on the question
— ^whether, by his voice, bis fdOiow main.afnd fi^Bow citi>
sen shall live or die* But while capital pamshmentt
continue to be inflicted, the burthen Inustbebom; asd
while it must be bom, every citizen, who, in the ser-
vice of his country, may be called to bear it, is bound
to qiKdiiy himself for bearing it in iiuoh a mamier, as
win ensure peace of mind to himself; jostif^e to him
whose ikte be may determine, and honour to the jiididaS
administration of his country. By so qualifying faitosdE^
' though, in the dischai^ of his duty, he wiQ feel straatg
emotions, he wiH, from the performance ^of it, feei no
remorse*

I must again enter upon a review of some principles^
of which notice has already been mken*

With regard to the law in criminal cases, et^ry citi-
zen, in a government such as ours, should endeavour
to- aciquire a reasonable knowledge of its princijdes aiMl
rules, ibrtlie'dii^ction of his conduct, when ixe is odted
to obey, when he is called to answer, and when he is
called to judg^. On ql^estions of law^ his 4eSciencie»
will be supplied by the professional directions of ^te

j^idgesy whose. 4i|t^ and whos^e bmsiiiess it b. p:^fea8ioii*
afly t» dscect him. Fob, aijs we have seeijs, verdicts^ ia
o^imiflal cases, gexiftH% <ji^teirmii>e the t|uestipa of lekWj,
a^ ^«11 astdie quose^an o£ fa^t. %ies<fioi^ of &iBi,. it u|,
hb eicchiAive pirwii^e to 4e^2!«))Q^* Wich^ th^ cQaeider^*
tioa of ettdteace^ itn^ona^ted with tb($ %u^of> wh^f h^
h»i ia, to try, hia fttteiijb^ witt tiM h^ <i[i^^ai::ti94;: fer eyetsy^.
thing of that nataiiiei^ we piseswjWie, wJU b6 eiK^J^fi^d by>
the court. The collected powers of his mind, therefore,
will be fixed, steadily and without interruption, upon the;
issue which he is sworn to try. This issue is ar issue of ^
fact* Its trial will depend upon the evidence. Evidence,
in every cause, is thar which produces : evidence, in a
' capital cause, is that which forces belief.

Belief, as we have seen, is an act of the mind, not
easily described, indeed, but easily felt. Does the juror
feel its force I Let him obey the constitution of his na-
ture, and yield to the strong conviction. If the evidence
produce, upon the mind of each of his fellow jurors, the
same strong conviction, which it produces on his, their
sentiments will be unanimous ; and the unanimous senti^
ments of all will still corroborate the strong conviction
of each. If a single doubt remain in the mind of any
juror, that doubt should produce his dissent ; and the
dissent of a single juror, according to the principles
which we have explained, and, we trust, established, will
produce a verdict of acquittal by all. x

Considered in this manner, is the duty of a juror, in
a capital case, intolerably burthensome ? It cannot, in-
deed, as we have said, be discharged without emotion :
but the unbiassed dictates of his own constitution will
teach — will force hirai to discharge It properly.

5SS

LECTURES ON LAW.

In crimiiia!U-»in capital cases, with what sublime ma^
jesty does the trial by jury now appear to its ravished
beholders ! In the first and purest principles of societ7
its foundations are Idid: by the moit exquisite skill.
United with consummate benignity, the grand and finelj
proportioned edifice has been raised : within its watts,
strong and lofty as well as finely proportioned, freedom
fehjoys protection^ and imiocence rests secure.

CHAPTER VII.

THE SUBJECT CONTINUED.

t

Of SHERIFFS AND CORONERS,

^ • . . ■' . '

T'. ' -

HE sheriff is an officer of high respectability in our

juridical system, and was known to the most early ages
of the common law.

Among the Saxons, his power was very great and
extensive — judicial as well as ministerial* In his minis-
terial character, he executed the writs of the king and
the judgments of his courts : in his judicial character^
the sheriff presided in the several courts of justice com-
prehended within the sphere of his jurisdiction* He was"
chosen in the county court by the votesof the freeholders;
and, like the king himself, says Selden, j^ was entitled to
his honour by the people's favour*

• •.

All the other nations of Gothick and German origin,
who, on the ruins of the Roman empire, founded king-
do tas in the different parts of Eurc^e, had officers of the

o Bac on Got. 41. ^

590 L£CTV&£S ON LAW.

same kind with the sheriffs of the Ang^o*Sasoiis« This
is a strong evidence of their high antiq^uity, as well as
general respectability* ^ In some of the Gothick consti-
tutions, the sheriffs were elected by the people, but con-
firmed by the king* The electicm and appointment were
made in this mannei*: the people chose twelve electors ^
those electors nominated tbi:^e^p^|S(HPi5' to the king ; from
those three the king selected one, who was the confirmed
sheriff. ^

The popular elections of the sheriffs, in England, were
lo|it by the people in the reigns of Edward the second and
Edward the third ; and a new mode of appointment was
substituted in their placfc..^ I9 itbf time of Lord Chan-
cellor Fortescue, the manner of the dection of sheriffs
was as. foUpwsA Every year there met,, in. the court of
exchequer, aQ the king^s coui\selIora, as well lords spirit
tual and temporal, as all other the king^s justices, all the
barons of the exchequer, the master of the rolls, and cer-
tain other officers. All these, by common x:onsent, nomi-
nated of .every county three persons of distii^ctton, such
s^s they deemed be^t qualified for the office of sheriff,
and presented them to the king. OS the person^ so
nominated ajtid returned, the king m^de choice of one,
who, by virtue of the king's letters pateAt^ was consti-
tuted high sheriff of that county, for which he was so
chosen^ ^ This mode pf nomination andy appoii^tm^nt
st^ll continues in England. ^

It has been usual to appoint them annually. But in
the reign of ftenry the fifth, we find from this custom, a

*» 2. Hen. 245. -o i.K, Com. 340. * 4. Hk Com, 430.
« Fort.de laud, c 24. - ^Wood.r<K

fkxtiumtrkfaty fexccfption^ rendered very r^maifkaA>l« by
•the Tea9<><i ^saSgnM for it. The kitig is ^erfiii«ted tt) *
appoint sherifis for four years; "because by w<ft*s aftd
p^stUetice th^r^ are not a sij^cient tiu^iiiiber r^ittdfiivig;
iti tlie dlflPcfretit coufities^ to discfh^rge thift ofSce froHl
year to year."*

By « parliainentary regulation made f« the rtipk of
Edward the second, atid repeated m that of Edward ^h^
third) it wds directed that shei4fe should be chosen frotfi
^tKfi 'persons t^ had landff in <their shires ; and that those
Istnds should be sufficient to answer to the kii^ and hk
people, if grieved, ^

By a law of the United States, a marshal is appointed
for ea A district for ifce term of four years ; but is remo*
vable from his office at pleasure. * As no particular mode
is specified by the law for appointing the marshal, hi*
appointment f«Als, of course, under the general provision
ttKiide by th6 nfrtioaail constJtutton. i The president nomi*
nates, and. With the advice and consent of the "senate,
appoints him. His powers alid his duties are, in^enersd^
coincident with those of a sheriff, u

% Bar. on St. 386. ^ 3.^eeT. 7a. .

* Laws. tJ. S. 1. cbng. 1. sess. c. 2a s. 27. J Art. 2. s. 2.

k u ri;^ marshals of the several districts, and their deputies^
shall have the same powers in executing the laws of the United.
States,,a8 sheriiis and their deputies, in the several states, have by
law, in executing the laws of the respective states." Laws U. S.
3. cong.2. sess. c. 101. s. 9. The same provision was contained in a
prior law, repealed by that above cited. Laws U. S. 2. cong. 1. sess»
G. 28. a. 9. £d.

/

^1^ LECTUREft OK LAllr.

By the constitution of Pennsylimnia)^ slieriffs sre
chosen by the citizens of ^ach county: two persons are
chosen for the office ; one of the two is appointed by the
governour. We observe, here, another instance of the
old Saxon and German customs revived in the constitU'
tion of this commonwealth.

Our sheriffs are Elected and hold their offices for three
years, if they behave themselves well ; but no person shall
be twice chosen or appointed sheriff in any term of six
years. The converse of this regulation we find in an act
of parliament — No man, ' who has served the! f^ce of
sheriff for one year, can be compelled to serve it again
within three years afterwards, m The reason o^ this coil-
verse regulation may be collected from another act of
parliament. The expense which custom had introduced '
in serving the office of high sheriff became so burthen-
some, that it was enacted, that no sheriff should keep any
table at the assizes, except for his own family, or ^ve
^y presents to the judges or their servants, or have more
than forty men in livery : yet, for the sake of safety and
decency, he may not have less than twenty men in En-
gland and twelve in Wales."

An attention to the powers and duties of the sheriff
will disclose, I think, a" peculiar propriety in the com-
pound mode of election and appointment, directed by our
constitution. He executes the process of courts, and, in
his county, is the principal conservator of the peace : so
far he is an executive officer, and should be appointed by
the governour. ' He returns jurors : for this reason, he

iArt6.s.l. » Stl.R.2.c.ll. LBiGmm

n St 13 and 14 C. % c 91. l.BL Com. 34#.

•££CTi;R£S OM I.AW*

a9i

llbould'Se ohoieo by the people. Invested 'with the dou-
ble .chiaiu:UT, he sfaoold receive ht6 authority partly from
both. As^he is elected aiid a|>pointed for three years^
osmd-caa si^rve onlyonceia the -period of sij^ yeai's; he
iB,in $i co^svdemble degree, independent, and may, there-
fore, be presumed impartial in the exercise of his very
important duties and powers* Those duties and powers
4re are now^icoDGisely to describe. ;

f 'i

' The judicial >powev of the sherHF, which, in former
timeSfWafr vsiy great, and; extensive;, is, :bry our juridical
system^ ftfaBjifercedi with/ great propriety^ to otheir esta^
blilshirfienfe:. for it ts^ obviQusly incdngruons^ thatekeeu-
tive- and judicial authority ekguld: be iiinited in the same
person.

- nP^nnit.me here ta observe, that the aecmbalation of
,iinn(ecesBary and even ideoiAsifte&t powers seems to^jbe
t^e principal objection against the old Saxon institutioos^
In..mQsl20tber nas|Hspts^- tbey are not moife venerable on
ncoount of theii? imtiquaty^ '4lian oni.slcGount of their
matured ^xoellf ncej Permklme also hicro to observe/that^
in the' coixect distributioaitof the powers; of. govemi|ient,
the constitution of Penna^lTahfa, approaches, if it doe^
not reach, : dieoretick perfbctidn;

The ministerial power of the sheriff is of great impor-
tance to the impiartial administration of justice^ andto the
internal peace and tranquillity of the commonwealth*
He is. the chief officer, says my Lord Coke, within the
abxre^'. To his custody the coumy is committed. This-
custody is three-fold. 1. Of the life of justice; for no
suit begins, and no process is served, but by die sheriff.
It belongs to him also to return indifferent juries^ for the

VOLt II,

3 £

994 X£CTUR£a on law.

trials of men's properties^ liberties, andtiTeti^ 3* .Of tkt
life of the law ; for, after suits king and chargeable, he
makes execution, which is the life and fruit of the law.
3. Of the life of tl^ republick; for, within the counqr,
he is the principal conservator of the peace, which is
the life of the commonwealth, o

With regard to process issuing from the courts of
justice, the sheriff's power and duty is, to execute itf
not to dispute its validity: though the writ be iUeg^,
the sheriff is protected and indemnified in serving it. '
From this general rule, however, one exception muit be
taken and allowed. He must judge, at his peril, wfccdier
the court, from which the process issued, has or has not
jurisdiction of the cause. ^

The selection and the return of jurors is a most mo*
yientotts part of the power and duty of a sheriff* It is
that part, in which abuses are most £!|tal : it is that
part, in which there is the greatest opportunity jmd temp^
tation to commit them. Let us ^ak of former tuaes.
In the reign of Edward the frst, the parliament was
obliged to interpose its aathortigr to give relief to the
people against deriffs, who harassed Jurors unnecessa^
rily, by summoning them from a great dbtaace, and who
returned such as would not fpve an impartial verdict.
This last abuse, says a modem writer ** on the English
law, was never perfectly removed till the late act was
made for balloting juries. In an account of ComwaB,
wiitten by Mr. Carew, we are informed, that, ia the
.reign of Henry the seventh, an article of charge for the

<" 1. Ins. 16a a. P 6. Rep. 54. 9. Rc^ 41.

4taRq!^r6.3. WiLSaC r Barv on St ISf .

. X

ttCTtniES ON laV«

^n

^ 'friendship of the sheriff," was common in an attor-
ncy'«bilL^

As the principal conservator of the peace in tiis coun*
ty, and as the calm but irresistible minister of the Jaw,
the authority of a shoiff is important ; his duty is pro-
portionably great. To preserve or restore the publick
tttmquilti^, to ensure or enforce the effectual execution
of the law, he is invested with the high power of order-
ing to his assistance the whole strength of the county
over which he presides.

The law is mild in its mandates ; but it will be obey.
ie3. It knows, it presumes, it will suffer none ,of its
ministers to know or to presume, any power superiour to
Its own. If any man, says my Lord Coke^ however
g;reat, might resist the sheriff in executing the king's
writs \ it would be regular and justifiable in the sheriff to
return such resistance : but such a return would redound
greatly to the dishonour of the king and his crown :
what redounds to the dishonour of the king and his
erowi^, is against the common law : and, therefore, if
necessity require it for the due execution of the king's,
writs, the sheriff may, by the common law, take the
posse comitatus to suppress such unlawful force and re-
sistance.* '

When necessity requires it» the sheriff not only may^
but must at his peril, employ the strength of his county*
In the reign of Edward the second, a sheriff had the
king's writ to deliver possession of land : the sheriff
returned that he could not execute the writ by reason of

*Bp.(mSt459.

t 2. In. 19^

resistance* This was considered as tti ittsmlt upon ^die
authorit)'^, with which he was invested ; and becamse hk
took not the power of the county in aid of the execution,
he was amerced at twenty marks. ^

Besides the warrant of the cdsmncm law, cootinties
my Lord Coke, die sheriff has his'letters patent of as8is6>
ance, by which the kkxg commands, that all airhbisbc^^
•bishops, dukes, earls, barons, knights, freemen, and all
others of the county sbsll attend, assbt, and answer to
the sheriff, in every thing which belongs to his ofice*
No man above fifteen and under seventy yeara-of age,
ecdesiastical or temporal, is exemptedfrom this service y
for so it is by construction of law* * ■

' ' '

How easily are these cases applied to the United
States and to Pennsylvania, under the operation of the
fine rule, that the empire of the law is stronger as well
as safer than the empire of maa !

I proceed to consider the office of coroner. Thi^
office, though much neglected, though, peibaps, despUed,
is an office, both ancient smd dignified. It forms no
inconsiderable part of a coinfdete juridical system*

In the time of the Saxons, as we are informed by M n
Selden, he was one of the two chief .govemours of Ae
county. He was made by election of the freeh(4ders iii
their county court, as ike sheriff was, and from among
the men of the dniefest rank in the county*^

\

By the constitution^ of this commonwealth, sher^
and coroners are chosen and appointed in the same man-

«3.Ins.l94; "" Bac on Got. 41. w^rt^s.!*

t
\

t.ECTlTE<ft OH VAW* $9f ,

aer* We see here another revival of the Saxon and
•Genaan issstitutions* ' ..

To die office of sheriff^ that of coroner is, in many
instances, a necessary 8ubstitut#: for if the sheriff is ia«
tetv^ted in a suit, or if he is of affini^ with one of the
parties to n suit, the coroner must execute, and return '
ihe process of the courts of justice. ^
■• ' . ♦

But the most important daty.and business of a comner
a»of another nature* When any person is killed, or di^
suddenly, or dies in prison, the coroner must hold an
inquest ccmceraing the manner of his death. This in«
quest must be held upon the view of the body ; for if the
bbdy cannot be found, the coroner cannot sit. He must
certify his inquisition to the court of king^s bench or to
the next assizes, y

«

The lord chief justice of the king's bench is the su«
preme cotoner of all England^ and may exercise that juris-
diction in any part of the kingdom. ,

From the statute of Wales, made in the twelfth year
of Edward the first, and which, by the remedies provided
for Wales, informs us, at the same time, what was the
law and practice of England-— from this statute we learn,
that the coroner was directed to attend and summon a
jury, when a man was wounded so dangerously, that his
Kfe was despaired. Thi^ branch of a coroner's duty is
now totally neglected. ^^ It is a regulation, however,"
says the learned observer upon the ancient statutes,
*^ which deserves much to be revived : and I should con-

^ 4.1n8.3n. y l.BLCom.349. « 4Rep.5rb.

MB

LSGTUISS pir LAW*

ttxvc that this attendance of the coroner with' a jurfy
when a dangerous wound had been received, was to pre*
vent the dying words of the person murdered from being
evidence ; as this kind of pro6f, though ifiowed at pre*
sent, cannot be too cautiously admitted. It is presumed^
indeed, that the words of a person expiring cannot but iMt
true, consideringthe dtuation, under which he gives the
information* But may not a dying man', thoi^ a good
christian, deprived of expected happiness in life by a
wound, received, perhaps, from an enemy, rather wish
his punishment more eagerly than he should do ? And
may not those about the dying perscm, who are generallT'
relations, repeat what he said asoce strongly on the trials
than possibly the words were delivered?" *

» Bar,QnSt.l34.

ft ••

' l4 •

CHAPTER VIII.

THE SUBJECT CONTINUED..

or COUNSELLOE8 AND ATTORKIES*

In our courts of justice there ^xt counsellor^ and attor-
nies* In England, there are two degrees of coonseUom
— Hseijeant^ and barristers* How ancient and honourable
the ^taite and degree of a seijeaat is, has been the
simple theme of many leaf n6d and elaborate treatises.

My Lord Coke^ in a speech wihith he made upon m
call of Serjeants^ coinpares thie serje^dits' coif-— a cap of ^
a particular fcrm— to Minerva's helmet ; for Minerva <
was this goddess of counsel. He also discovers, that th^
fiour corners of that cap indicate four ezcell^Qt qualities
«-4ciencj(> ^emerienc^ observation, recordaliotf. *

» B8r*oii.St4#S.

^ •

t
/

>

400 Li:CTURES ON LAW.

Pace tanti virl^ shall the truth be disclosed ? If the on*
gin of coifs is investigated, we shall, perhaps, find that
Mercury, and not Minerva, is entitled to the merit of
the invention. A.t one period,' the clergy were almost
the only lawyers known in England'; but, in a fit 6f
resentment, they were banished from the bar; Its sweets
— ^for its profits were sweet-— could not be easily rehn-
> quished. The clerk still pleaded, but disguised in the
Serjeant's robe, and, by cotitriviag the coif^ concealed
his clerical tonsure.

But, like many other things, its first origin was losC^
in it^ subsequent sptendduK '* The institution became
honourable ai|d venerable ; and, as such, is still con-
sidered and preserved in England. ^^ A serjeant at
law," says my Lord Chancellor Fortescue, *» " shall not
take oflf his coif, though he be in the royal presence, and
talking with fiis majesty. No one can be made a judge
of the courts of king's bench or common pleas, until he
is Called to the stale and dignity of a seljeant." To Am0*
rica, howeyer,*it ha^ not been transplanted. We leave
it td'cotitinue and flourish'in its native sdil. '

f . • ,*■•!' ...''•. . . '

Ii](=d^ first ages of Athens, the parties pleaded, for
themselves ; but, in iateir times,, they wei*e aUbWed tb
have the benefit of . counsel. ^ That the length of their
srpeech^s might not' eshaiust the patience 61 *the fudges,
bt* prevent other business equally necessary, it was lisiiaT
; -fc-pethaps ^^he spirit of the custom might be revived' Isrith
]|o disadviaiitage-^to measi\rd thtir ' ahbtted ^portion of
time by fen hour glass, in which they' tiied iv^l^i* l^^tfci*
of sand. XSb scrupulously exafct weV^ they iti thii parti-

fc De Laud. €. 4apL ^ t Pot Aat 10«. ' .

I.ECTURES ON LAW*
iCttlar, that an officer, whose name denoted his office —
Bpmiof^ — ^was appointed to distribute the water equally
to each side. While strict justice was required from the
advocates, strict justice was done them : the glass w*as
•topped while the proper officer recited the laws which
t|iey quoted. Nay, the water remaining at the conclu-
sion of an argument might be transferred to the use of
another speaker. Hence this expression — Let such a
one apeak till my water be run out,^

This custom was practised by the Romans. The time
allowed, by the law, for the speeches of the advocates
is termed, by Cicero, " legitimae horae." The patient
and indulgent Antoninus, who was a philosopher as well
as an emperour, ordered, as we are told by his historian,
plenty of water for the speakers at the bar ; in other
words, he allowed them full time for their speeches^
*' Quoties judico," says the younger Pliny, " quantum
quis plurimum postulat aquae do"— when I sit injudg-*
ment, I give to every advocate as much water as he
desires. ^
This instance of resemblance between the Athenian
imd Ronian bars is not mentioned on account of its intrin-
.aick importance ^ but because it proves, mor^ strongly
than an important instance could provt, the principle of
imitatioil. The coincident practice could be dictated
by no common principle of nature or of society.

Counsellors, or barristers at law, have been long
]tuM>wn in England. Formerly they were styled " appren«

d Pet. on Jur. 59. 63. 1. Pot Ant 118.
* PU. £p. 1. §. ep. 3. Pet on Jwr. 134

TOl. !!• ' 3 F

i02 I.XGTURES ON LAW*

ti«ii ad legenii" apprentices to the law ; because th^
were considered only as learners, and were not permitted
to exercise the full office of an advocate, till they were
qualified by the knowledge and experience acquired
dudng the long probation$hip of sixteen years. ^ Edward
the first, it is said, introduced the practice of permitting
them to plead in the court of king's bench, before they
attained the rank and dignity of seijeants. ^

Attorney, says my Lord Coke, is an ancient English
word, and signifies one who is set in the turn, stead, or
place of another. Of these, some are private ; and some
are publick, as attomies at law. ^ The business of an
attorney at law is to manage the practical part of a
suit, and to follow the advice of the Serjeants or baitis*^
ters, who are of counsel in it. ^

At the common law, no person could appear by an
attorney, without the king^s writ or letters patent. J In
one part of his works, my Lord Coke admif es the policy
of this r/egulation. Its genius was to prevent the increase
and multiplication of suits. But when statutes permitted
the parties to appear by attorney, it is not credible,
$ays he, how suits at law increased and multiplied.
Such ill success has ever had the breach of the maxims
and the ancient rules of the common law.^ In another
part of his works, he expresses sentiments more favour-
able to the appointment of attornies. The act command-
ing the judges to admit them, he styles ^* an act of

f Fort de Laud. c. 50 t l.Reev.491. ^ l.Iiis.51b,

^ S. Ins. 564. Wood. Lis. 466. | Wood. Iiw. 466b

^ 2. Ins. 249.

LECTURES 01^ LAW. 403

I

grace," because the king gave his royal assent to a law
for the quiet and safety of his subjects, giving them
power to make attomies, whereby he lost such profit of
the great seal, as he formerly received in such cases. ^

To correct the abuses, which arose from the admission
of attomies, whose heads and whose hearts were equally
unqualified for the trust, it was enacted^ so early as the
feign of Henry the fourth, "^ that all the attomies shall bt
examined by the judges ; and such as are good and vir^
tuous and of good fame shaD, by the discretion of the
court, be received and sworn well and faithfully to serve
in their pffices ; and their names shall be entered on the
roll.

.♦

A barrister is not sworn. ^

According to the law of the United States, parties majr
plead and manage their own causes personally; or by the
assistance of such counsel or attomies at law, as, by the
rules of the several courts, shall be permitted to m^mage
and conduct causes. ^

By a rule of the supreme court, it is ordered, that it
shall be requisite to the admission of attomies and coun#
sellors to practise in that court, that they shall have been
such for three years in the supreme court of the state to
which they respectively belong, and that their private and
professional character shall appear to be fair, fo^ the
circuit court for the Pennsylvania district, the same nrie'

*

1 2. Ins. S7«. " St. 4. H. 4. c. It. ■ 2. Int. 214.

^ Laws U. S. 1, cong. 1. sesi. c. 20. f. 35»

^404 LECtURES OK LAV.

is made wich the only difference of ^^two" instead of
*^ three*' years. ^

. By a law of Pennsylvania^ it is provided, that a com-
petent number of persons, learned in the law, and of an
honest disposition, may be admitted by the justices of
the several courts to practise as s^tomies in them. No
attorney shall be admitted, without taking an oath or
affirmation — ^that he will behave himself in the office of
attorney within the court, according to the best of his
learning and ability, and with all good fidelity, as well to
the court as to the client ; that he will use na falsehood,
nor delay any person's, cause for lucre or malice. ^ |

Attomies at law, on one hand, enjoy privileges on ae-
coimt of their attendance in courts : on. the other, thay
are peculiarly subject to the censure and animadversion
of the judges.*'

In all the courts of Pennsylvania, and in jaJl those of
the United States, except the supreme court, the same

p At Apnl sessions, 1804, the abovementioned rule of thedrodt
court was rescinded, and the following established. ^Ordered,
that no person s>hall be^ admitted to practise as counsel or attorney, of
this court, unless he shall have previously studied three years, been
admitted two years in a court of common pleas, and in the supreme
court of a state : or unless he shall have studied four years, been ad«
mitted one year in a court of common pleas, and in the supreme
oofn-t'of a state : or ualess he shall have studied fiveyeam, and beea
admitted in the supreme court of a state. . Sstisfisctipn.alsa of noial
character will be required." £d.

^ 1. Laws. Penn. 185. s. 38. >^ Id. 360. s. 38.

' aBl.C(»n.3e.

LECTURES ON LAW.
L^er^on may act both as counsel and as attorney. In the
supreme court, the different offices must be exercised by
difierent persons.

«/
The law has not, in every age, nor in every country,
ibeen formed into a separate profession. Doubts have
been entertetined, whether, in any country, or in any age,
it should be so formed. Every man, it hsA been oftcfti
msAA^ ought to be his own lawyer.

«

In a system of lectures, addressed peculiarly, though
b3r no means exclusively, to those wh6 are designed for
the profossion of the lawf this question deserves our par-
ticular notice. It deserves our notice more especially
as we are told, in a very late and a very sensible perform-
ance concerning the revolution in France, that those, who
have been most active in this mighty event, mean to de-
stroy the separate profession of the law. An event, so
auspicious to man, will diffuse a winning appearance over
every thing, with which it seems to be, in the slightest
manner, connected. But it is our business to examine
the foundations, and not merely the external appearances
of things.

It may be asked— when you have talien so much pains,
in the introduction to these lectures, and in many parts
of them, to persuade us, that the knowledge of the law
should, especially apiong a free people, be disseminated
universally J will you now turn suddenly in an opposite
direction, and endeavour to persuade us, that a distinct
and separate profession should be formed of the law i
The result, perhaps, of investigating this subject will be,
that unless the law is made the peculiar study and pro-
fession of some, it will never become the object o£ know-
ledge to all.

40S LXCTURES Off LAir.

We have heard the complaint of my L<»rd Coke, thst
the admission of attornies at \bw into the courts of justice
18 an innovation upon the practice and the policy of tho
common law. It must be confessed that this is the case.
At iikc common law, b<^h the ^aintiff and the defetidant
appeared in their proper persons. ^^ The plaintiff offeri*
himself," and ^^ the defendant comes" are the immemo«
ml and authentick forms of entry — ^^ Querens obtuKt se*^
•— " Oefendens venit." These, on both sides, denote m
personal appearance.

In th^ early and simple periods of society, the personal
appearance of the parties waa all that was necessary*
Such were the periods of which we speak. Among the
ancient Saxons, few and plain were the forms uid circnm*
attinces, under wliich property was litigated and decided
m. thcif courts of justice ; uniform and dhort were the
proceedings in those courts. Among the ancient Saxons,
therefore, professional characters were not necessary for
tibe management or the determination of suits. The king,
or the earl, as the case might be, was qualified to judge ;
aii4 the partiea to plead.

An adherence ^o principle often dictates a variation
in practice. In the progress of society, the business of
society became more comple:i^ and intricate ; and the con-
troversies arising from it became more frequent and
embarrassed. This new order of things introduced a
Mw order of profe9sions. To the king were substituted
the judges : to the earls, the sheriifs ; and to the parties,
attornies or counsel learned in the law. ^^ After the
Anglo-Saxon laws were committed to writing," says Dr.
Henry in his history of Britain, ^^ it became necessary
that some persons should read and study them widi pai^*

LECTURES ON LAW. 40f

ticular atte]:itu)xi4 in order to understand their true intenl
and meaning. This gsdve ri^e to lawyers by profession^
who, in the language of England in those times^ were
called retdborariy Qr lahmen, and, in latin, rhetoresj or
qausidicu Some of these law men, after having undeF^
gone an examination as to their knowledge of ,the law^
were appointed assessors to the aldermen and hundreda^
ries : others of them acted as advocates and pleaders at
the bar." '

But it will be replied — ^and still on the authority of
iny Lord Coke — that the introduction of lawyers multi*
plies suits at law. The unnecessary ^^ multiplication oi%.
lawyers", rather say : for that is the amount of my Lord
Coke's complaint : and, even in the ground of his com*
plaint, he appears not altogether, steady or consistent*
But elsewhere, my Lord Coke traces the multiplication
of law suits to causes, very different from the eatablisfa^
ment of the law as a profession. Xheir two general
causes, says he, are peace and plenty. Peace is the
mother of plenty ; and plenty the nurse of suits. ^ Ie«
stead of wishing the removal of those general cause&A
he prays for their continuance.

In a country governed by the common law, the sepa^
rate profession of lawyers ought to be established for n
peculiar reason. The common law is the law of experi«
ence. vFar is it, indeed, from being without its general
principles; but these general .principl.es are formed
strictly upon the plan of the tegulcc philosophandiy which^
in another sdence. Sir Isaac Newton prescribed and
observed with such glorious success-«-they are formed

« • • «

t3.Hen. 345. «4.Ias.ra.

408 LEGTURSa on LAW*

Ikom fhe coincidence, or the analogy, or the oppositioi'
of numberleBS experiments, the accurate history of which
is contained in records and reports of judicial determi-
nations. To peruse those reports— -to consult those re-
cords, requires much time and industry. To methodise
them under the proper heads, requires much attention
and patient sagacity. From a variety of particular cases
to draw conclusions, neither too wide nor too narrowt
requires a judgment habitually exercised, as well as na-
turaDy strong. These are the requisites, by which tho
common lawyer must be formed. From these requisites
we may easily infer the propriety of establishing the law
. as a separate profession. To acquire these requisites ic
a sufficient employment.

In the common law, principles are collected slowly
gnd with difficulty ; but, when once coUected, they may
be communicated soon and easily. The principles may
be known, and may be reduced to practice too, by men
who never heard or witnessed one of the legal experi-
ments, from the lengthened series of which those prin-
ciples are drawn.

In this manner I reconcile my positions-— that the
knowledge of tl^e law should be disseminated universal-
ly— and — that the law should be formed into a separate
profession. In this manner, too, I prove — that unless
the law is made the peculiar study and professioti of
some, it will never become the object of knowledge to
all.

Should the profession of the law be merely honoraryf
Or should it be a source of profit as well as of fame f
These questions have undergone ample discwision ; and

LtCTURES ON LAW* 409

h^e, at di&rent times^ received contrary authoritative
r^oIutions« In a government truly republican, the sub*
ject will not admit of dispute.

By the Cincian law, every gratification whatever was
interdicted to the Roman advocates. What was the con-
aciquence^ Betweeji citizen and citizen an inequality in-*
o(^sistent with the government of a free country. Those
who had and those who might have causes depending,
ami were unqualified for pleading, them-^^this is the de^
SQiption of the many-*— -were kept in a state of vas^salage
to.those^ by whom they migbt be pleaded without a fee
•^-tthis is the description of the few. Hence the well
known relation of client and patron : hence the tyranny
and servility, to which that 'well known relation gave
rise* Besides, this regulation was as liable to be eluded
as it was certain to be 'abused. Presents,^ said to be
vcduntary, might easily supply the place of stipulated
ftes« We are told of a lawyer, who practised this art
with great address and advautage* A piece of plate,
which a client had thrown at his feet, was placed con*,
ipicuous in his office, J with this inscription-**-^^ lucri ne^
glecti lucrum."

What can be more honourable than that gain, which
Is acquired by virtue and talents ? In a state of repub-
^can equality, what can be more reasonable, than that
one citizen should receive a compensation for the ser-
vices, which he performs to another ? still more so, for
those which he performs to the state ?

It may b^ expected, that I should here say something
f^nceming the studies which a lawyer should pursue, the

^ Bar. on St 415.

VOL. U. 3 Q -

\

' \

410 LECTUAES OH LAW.

accomplishments which he should aequire^ .and the cht«
racter which. he ^hauld support. Something concemii^
each of these topicks I mean to say, but with a diffideoee
proportioned to the delicacy of the subject*

I think I may venture the position — ^diat in aa
science can richer materials be found, and that, in fio
science, have rich materials been more neglected or
abused, than in the science of law-^particularly of the
common law. Listen to the sentiments of mvLprd Ba-
con, in his book on the ^ advancemoit of learning.
It is well known, that the*vast object of this exalted
and most comprehensive genius was, to erect a new and
lasting fabrick of philosophy, founded, not on hypothesis
or conjecture, but on experience and truth. To the ae-'
complishment of this design, it was necessary that he
should previously review, in all its provinces and divi-
sions, the state of learning as it then stood. To do this
effectually required knowledge and discernment, exqui-
site and universal : such were happily employed in the
arduous task. Whatever, in 'science, is erroneous or
defective, he has pointed out. I(e has done more; he
has suggested the proper means of correcting erroursafid
supplying defects. Of the science of law, he thus speaks
—Those, who have written concerning laws, have treat-
ed the subject like spec\ilative philosophers, or like mere
practising lawyers. The philosophers propose many
things, which, in appearance, are beautiful, but, in fact,
are without utility. They make imaginary laws for
imaginary commonwealths ; and their discourses are as
the stars, which give little light, because they are so
high. The lawyers, on' the other hand, attached imp
plicitly to the institutions o^ their country, or to the te-

^ nets of their sect, exert not their judgment unbiassed,

*ljut harangue as if they were in chains*

I^EGTVRES ON LAW*

Mt

Bat certaiidy, continues he, the knowledge of this
subject properly belongs ad viros civiies* Those viH
jtivUes-^^^^ practical statesmen" is, perljaps, the nearest
translation, of which our language will admit — he
describes in the following manner. They know what
appertains to human society, what, to the publick welfare^
what, to natural equity, what, to the manners of nations^
what, to the different forms of comnionwealths. These
ate qualified to judge concerning laws, by the prxaci-
pies and rules of genuine policy and natural justice*
For there are certain fountains of justice, from which all
civil laws should flow like streams. To those fountains
of justice and publick utility let us have recourse*^ He
then goes on, according to his plan, to give a specimen
of a treatise concerning universal justice, or the fountains
of ^aw.

I have said that the^law^ particularly the. common
law abounds in rich materials. For the truth of this
t>bservation, can I appeal to stronger evidence than to a ^
series-— continued, almost without interruption, for five
hundred years-— of cases which actually happened, and
were judicially determined? Many of these cases ara
related in the most accurate and masterly manner ; wit-
ness the reports of my Lord Coke, of Mr. Peere Wil-
liams, and of Sir James Burrow : others, too, deserve •
to 6e mentioned. These are the precious materials of
the common law. These are authentick experiments,
on which a sound system of legal philosophy must be
formed. On these experiments, the most indefatigable
industry has been frequently employed. But has it been
employed in a proper manner ? tJpon cases, cases have

1. Ld. Bac 248. 3. Ld. Bac. SZ7,f

4iM ' IKQTURSS OH^LAW^

been accumulated e to cdSectiona, collections hiiv^ been
superadded : but they have been directed, generaUy, bjr
no order more eligible than that of the alphabet* To
one who is already a lawyer, abridgments may, ola par-
ticular occasions, be of use: but surely they are not
calculated to inspire or to guide the libm^and enUght*
cned study of the law*

The Institutes of my Lord Cobs are a caUnet rtchiy
stored with the jewels of the law : but are not those
jewels* strewed about in endless and bewildering tonfu*
*ion?

In expression, as well as in arrangement, the eompo-
sitions of the law have been glsu*ingly im]^erfect ; md
have had an injurious tendency to deter those, whose
attachment they should Iv^ve been fitted to attract* Hear
' the natural and pathetick description which the celebrated
Sir Henry Spelms^n gives of his situation aod feelings,
when, he commenced ^his study of the comm^D. law:
^^ My mother sentme to London to leara the iawf when
I entered on its threshold, and encountered a foreign
language, a barbarous dialect, an inelegant arrangejnenti
and a collection ojT matter, not only immense, but dispo-
sed in such a manner as.tor be a perpetual load upon
the memory ; my spirits, I own it, failed within me*" *
• . ■ * . '

Since his time, ii^deed^ very considerable assistance
has been furnished to young gentlemen^ engaged in tha
acquirement of legal knowledge. . Of this assistance^ the
short but very excellent ansdysis digested by nsy Lord
Chief Justice Hale forms a most valuable jpart; whefhef

\ * 1. BLCoDu31« ». . .

WCTtfRES ON LAW. 410

V

I

%e cotisttler it in itself^ or as the foundation of what has
been erected upon it. The distribution of this scientific
cal performance has, as we are informed by Sir William
Blackstone, been principally followed in his celebrated
Comttientaries on the laws of England. It is but justice
to add, that, in those Commentaries, '^e method of
Hale's smalysis is improved as welbas regarded. I have
formerly observed, that, in point of expression, the
Commentaries are elegant and pure.

But something mote is wanting still. Excellent ma-
terials, a correct arrangement of those materials, . and a
proper expression of the arranged form are all necessary ;
but they are not all that is necessary to a sound system
of the law. For, a system founded on principles truly
political and philosophical, we still 16ok around us in
-vain. On such principles alone, can a system solid and
permanent be erected. To confirm my sentiments, let
^ tAe again resort to the high auth6rity, before whose,
splendour the whole host of sciolists hide their diminished
heads. ** The reasons of municipal laws,'* says my Lord
Bacon, " severed from the grounds o( nature, manners,
and policy, are like wall flowers, which, though they
grow high upon the cfest of states, yet they have no deep
root." ^

Let me again repeat it-— -that we have no such system
of the common law as I have described^ is by no means

• owing to the want of the nfiaterials proper for the erec-
tion of so noble a fabrick. ^^ I do not a little admire
the wisdom of the laws of England," says my Ldrd

•^ Bacon in another place,* " and the consent, which

y4.LcLBac101. Id 103.

.414 LE€TUAE6 OH LAV.

they Ifavt with the wisdom of philosophy aad natuN
itself."

By this time, yqu are at no loss to disca^^er my senti-
ments coficeming the studies which a lawyer ought to
pursue, and thp accomplishments which he ought to
acquire* He ought to know men and societies of men,
in every state and in every relation in which they can be
placed : in every state and in every relation in which men
or societies of men can be placed, he ought to know what
appertains to justice — ^to comprehtnsjve morality. From
' the fountains of justice, we have ^een,.the civil laws
should spring* . To that fountain, ever full and ev£r
flowing, let the student of the law intrepidly ascend : he
will then, with ease, with pleasure, and with certain^,
follow the nveandering courses of its nuinerous streams*

It is anr opinion, far from being uncommon, that thie
• •nly institution neci^sary for a practising lawyer is, to
observe the practice in a lawyer's office. No opinion
was ever more unfounded : no opinion, perhaps, ever
entailed more mischief upon those, who have been its
unfortunate victims. I certainly shall not be misunder*
stood as if I meant to speak with ^ontempt of .the prac-
tice, which is to be observed in a lawyer^a office. Nothing
can be more remote from my intention and from my sen-
timents. To the most accomplished lawyer, even the
fninutice of practice are objects of regard ; and, in his
hands, they can be employed to useful, nay, to splen^d
purposes* In nature, the greatest bodies, the gi^teiit
systems of bodies, are composed of the smallest parti-
cles ; and^ the microscope, as well as the telescope, dis-
closes a world of wonders to our view. So in the sciences
-—50, particularly, in the science of law. But to be con-

L£CT0R£8 OK LAW*. 4%S'

fined to microscopick obaervations is' the doom of an m-
sect, not the birthright of a man,

l have said that the opinion just mentioned entaili
much misohief upon its unfortunate >victi mis. I have said
the truth. Law, studied and - praaised as. a science
founded in principle, is among the most delightful of
occupations : foUo^^ed as a trade depending merely upon
precedent, 'it becomes and -continues a drudgery, severe
and insupportable. One, who| follows it in this manner,
liveii in* a state of continual distrust and alarm. To such
a one^ every thing new is something odious : for he has
been taught to approve of things, not because they arc
proper or right, but because he has seen them before.
To such a one, the least deviation from even the most
uneseential forpiy appears equally fatal with the greatest
departure from the most important principles: for they
agree inthe*only circumstance, by which he can distin-
guish either : they are not within the sphere of his pr^k€^
tice. Tied to the ceptre of precedent, he treads, , for
life, the same dull, and small, and uniform circle around
it, without daring to view or to enjoy a single object oa
either side. ^

How very different is the situation of him, who ranges,
not without rule, but without restraint, in the rich, the
variegated, and the spacious fields of science! To his
observation and research every thing is open : he is ac*
customed to examine and to compare the appearances and
the realities of things ; to contemplate their beauty, to
investigate their utility, and to adnaire the wonderful
harmony, with which beauty and, utility coincide. To
him .an object is not dangerous because it is new : ha
measures it by the correct standard of his principles :

416 ]JIGTVR£S ON LAW.

be ditcovsrt what purposes it is fitted to answer, and
what other purposes it is fitted to destroy : he learns
when to use it/and when, to lay the use of it aside* The
discovery of one improvement leads him to the discovery
of another : the discovery of that other leads him, in de-
lightful progression, to another still.

I SLva now to make some remarks concerning the cha-
tacter which a lawyer ought to support*

Laws and law suits seem, in the apprehension of ^
some, to be synonimous or nearly synonimous terms.
In the opinion of such, the business and the character of
a lawyer will be, to produce and to manage controversie^f
at law. Part of the opinion may be admitted to be'just*
To manage controversies at law, when they have been
produced by another xause, is part of the business of a
lawyer : to produce them is no part of it. Even to
manage law suitsf though a part, is not the principal
part, of a lawyer's business : the principal part of his bu«
siness is to prevent them. The professional pride of sk
lawyer is, that no controversy arises fjrom' any opinion
which he gives, iu>r from the construction of any instru*
ment which he draws. Like a skilful pilot, he has
.studied correcdy the chart of the law : he has marked
the places which are dangerous, as well as those which
are safe. Like a pilot, honest and benevolent as well as
skilful, he captiously avoids every danger, and through
the channels of security steers the fortunes of those, who
intrust them to his care*

One reason, why the association between lawyers and
law suits is so^strong in the minds of some people, mvf
l»ft tbis^ that they never think of the former, till they are

/

/

I.XCTVRES ON tAW. 417

j^unged in the latter, or in the necessary causes of Uie
latter. But even in^this situation^ the aasociation is not
• a correct one ; for when they are in this ^tuat^on, the
tardy recourse to a lawyer is to help them out of it.

To give honest and sound advice in questions of law,
tD those who ask it in matters relating to their business or
' conduct, forms the character, which a lawyer ought to
support. I speak now of his private character : his pub**
lick character and conduct cpme under a different consi-
deration*

A general prejudice against the professional character
of the bar has arisen, I belibve, from observing, that the
gentlemen of the profession appear equally ready to un«
dertake either side of the same cause, Soth sides, h is
said, and said with truth, cannot be right: and to under-
take either with equal alacrity evinces, it is thought, an
iojsensibility — ^presumed professional — ^to the natural and
important distinction between right and wrong,

JCbis subject deserves to be placed in its true light*
That this insensibility is sometimes found at the bar can-
not be denied. That it is often imputed when it is not
found, ought also to be admitted* A few observationis^
will easily disclose the origin of this prejudice: and its
origin ought to be disclosed ; for I deem it of publick
importance, especially in a free country, that the profes-
sional character of the bar should stand in a respectable
point of view*

Let it be observed, Aat by far the greatest number
of law suits originate from disputefd facts. Of diese a
lawyer cannot judge, butfrpm .the representation of diem,

VOL. II. 3 H

418 LECVVRES OH LAW.'

«

which he receives from hts client* A dishotiest client
will impose upon his counsel: an honest client, from the
blindness and partiality of self interest, is often imposed
upon himself: the imposition, m this case, operqtes upon
the counsel equally as in the other. In both cases, the
lawyer, instead of deserving censure, deservc^s sympathy;
for it is always disagreei^le to be engaged in a bad and
unsuccessful tause.

Again ; even when law suitas originate firotti disputed

«

points of law, they frequently spring from positive insti-
tutions, particularly from intricate and artificial regula-
tions concerning property. To such questions, the
natural distinction between right and wrong is susceptible
of no other application, than that they be decided
according to the law of the land*

But further ; in such cases, the rule of positive lav
niay be really doubtful ; and this doubt may be the true
cause of the controversy. How often do we sec juries
and judges divided, nay equally divided, in opinion?
If this is so, a difference of sentiment in two gentlemen
of the bar should not be viewed as either pretended or
reprehensible. The court frequently direct arguments
of counsel on each side: can it be improper for the
counsel to obey those directions I

These remarks explain and justify the conduct of
counsel in the cases which I hsive described, and are fitted
to :pemove the prejudice, which, in such cases, is enter-
tained against them* If a lawyer is so lost to a sense of
his duty and character, as to advocate a cause which
he knows to be morally and certainly unjust^ his conduct
requires not to be explained ; and I mean not to justify it

LSCTURS8 ON LAW.
> ',To the court, as well as to his client, a duty is owing
by a gentleman«of the bar : these obligations are, by no
means, incompatible : both wil) be discharged by uniform
candour, and by a decent firmness properly blended with
a dignified respect.

Thus much concerning counsel and attomies at law.
I have been full and particular upon this head, because
it personally and immediately concerns the future condu^
and prospects of many of my heaf^rs.

CHAPTER IX.

THE SUBJECT CONTINUED,
or CONSTABLES,

V

JL AM now to consider the office of a constable. This
officer, and the office which he holds, are often treated
with a degree of disrespect; but very improperly and
very unwisely. In a government founded on the authori-
ty of the people, every publick officer is respectable ; for
every publick officer is a free citizen : he is more ; by
other free citizens he is invested with a portion of their
power.

s

' Besides ; the powers and duties of const^les, if pro«
perly and effectually exercised and discharged, are of
real importance to the community; and their publick
utility should rescue them from contempt. The antiqui-
ty as well as the usefulness of the office is very great.
Of its original it may be said, as we ar^ informed by my
Lord Bacon, ^ caput inter nubild condit ; for its authori-
ty was granted upon the ancient laws and customs of the

"4. Ld. Bac. 94.
lECTURES OK LAIT.

kingdom, practised long before the conquest* It was
intended and instituted for the conservation, of the peace,
and for repressing every kind of annoyance and disturb-
ance of the people. This was done by way of preven-
tion and not of punishment ; for a constable has no
judicial power to hear or determine any cause.

Upon a probability of a breach of the peace, as when
warm words have passed, the constable may command
the parties to keep the peace, and depart and forbear.
When an affray is made, he may part those engaged in
it, and keep them asunder. He may arrest tfbd commit
the breakers of the peace ; and, if they will not obey,
he may call power to his assistance. ^ If an affray is in
a house, he may break the doors open to restore and
, preserve the peace. If an offender fly into another dis-
trict or county, the constable may make fresh pursuit and
take him. To prevent as well as to quell a breach of
the peace, he may command all persons to assist him ;
and those, who refuse, may be bound over to the sessions
and fined. *^

•

It is the duty of a constable to execute, with speed
and secrecy, all warrants directed to him ; and not to

*

dispute the authority of him who issues them ; provided
the matter in question is within his jurisdiction. ^

The power and duty of constables are extended to
a great variety of instances by a number of acts of as-
sembly, which have been passed in Pennsylvania. '

In cases of necessity, a constable has power to appoint

a deputy. *

k4.Ld.Bac.96. c Wood. Ins. 87. did. ibid.' «4.Ld. Bac.98.

IKCTURES ON LAW.
There are two kinds of constables ;, a high constable
and a petty constable. Their authority Is the same in
substance, and differs only in point of extent.

I

To appoint men of low condition to the office of con*
stable, is, accordinjg to my Lord Bacon, k a mere abuse
and degeneracy from the first institution. They ought,
says he, to be chosen from among the better sort of
residents. '

I
I have now finished my account of the judicial de-
partments of the United States and Pennsylvania ; and)
with it, the description of their governments and consti-
tutions. To the government and constitution of every
ather state in the Union, my remarks and illustrations
will, generally, be found applicable. In those instances,
in which a strict application cannot be made, still, I flat-
ter myself, my remarks and illustrations will throw some
light upon the respective advantages or disadvantages of
institutions, which cannot be measured by 'the same
common standard.

^ 4. Ld. Bac 98.

t Id. 96,

\l

CHAPTER X.

OF CORPORATIONS.

» « •

A N a former part of my lectures,* after having described
a state, I observed, that, in a state, smaller societies may
be formed by a part of its members : that these smaller
societies, like states, are deemed to be moral persons, but
not in a state of natural liberty ; because their actions are
cognizable by the superiour power of the state, and are
regulated by its laws. I mentioned, that, to these socle-
ties, the name of corporations is generally appropriated,
though somewtiat improperly ; for that the term is strictly
applicable to si^preme as. well as to inferiour bodies poli-
tickl In obedience, however, to the arbitress of language,
I shall designate those smaller societies by the name of
corporations ^ and to. the consideration of them I now
proceed.

VOX,. IX.

» A>^tc.ToLl.pi3(MR»

426 JLECTUBES ON LAV*

A corporation is described to be a person in a poUdcal
capacity created by the law, to endure in perpetual succes-
sion. ^ Of these artificial persons a great variety is known
to the law. They have been formed to promote and to
perpetuate the interests of commerce, of learning, and of
religion. It must be admitted, however, that, in too
many instances, those bodies politick have, in their pro-
gress, counteracted the design of their ori^al fonn^on.
Monopoly, superstition, md igaorance have been the un-
natural ofisprrag of litexSry, relig^us, and commercial
corporations. This is not mentioned with a view to
insinuate, that such establishments ought to be prevented
or destroyed : I mean only to intimate, that they should
be erected with caution, and inspected with care.

In England, corporations m^y exjst by the common
law, by act of parliament, by prescription, and by charter
from the king.^ The king and the parliament are Gorp%>
satioBs by dM Ibroe <^ tbe coounoa law*^

In. tile United States^ and in Pennsylvania, corpora-
dons can only exist by the commott law^ or by vir&ie of
legislative anthority. This authority, however, may be
eabercised by a' power deteg^ted 1^ the legidature ; as
has been don^, in this commonwealth,*^ with regard ^
<;hur€hes« Upon die same prineipte^ the< kiag, in JSn-
glaad, may communicate to« astlbj^ct^ the power of erect-
ing corporations, and may permit him to name the per-
afEms of whiMnthey shril be composed, ahd the authori^
whic^ they shaH enjoy. Stilf, however, it is the king,
who rtslif ereets them ; Ute sntsject is only his instni-

^ Wood. Ids. 111. « laRep. 29 b.

* Wood, Ills. 1»- * ^t.'Laws»FeiiD.4a

LCCTUHes 611 JLAWk 4df

ment i md the act of the instrument becoines the' act <^
itft mover, uT^et the vrM known ntajcim, ^^qui factt per
I, fadt per se%** ^

To every corporalioa a name nmtt be aligned $ and
by that name alone It <an petfortn legal aet^s

^ When a corpormkm is duly established, there are many .
powers, rights, and capacities^ vhith are annexed to it
tacidy and of course* , i . i

^ /• '■..-' . -- ^

It has perpetual sucoession, unless a period of limita*
tion be expressed in the instrument of its establishment. • ' i
This succession is, indeed, the great end of an incorpora«
tion ; and, for this reason, there is, in all aggregate bodies
politick, a power necessarily implied dP filling vacancies
by the election of new nyembers.li

The power of removiBg any of its members for just
canse, is a power incident to a corporation. To the order
and good government of corporate bodies, it is adjudged
fiecessary that there should be such a powen ^ ^

Another and a most important power, tacitly Minexed
to corporations by die vety act of their estiAlishment, is
the power of-making byJaws*^ This, Indeed, is the
principal reason for erecting mainy of die bodies corporate*
Their nature or their circumstances are peculiar; and
provisions peculiarly adapted to diiem cannot be expected

^ 10.Rep<33b. l.Bl.CQBi4 4Sr4 g laRep^m

^ 1. BL Com. 475. i 1. Burr. 539.

i Ld. 1l83r« 408. Hob. 211. 1. M. Com. 475.

4t8 LEGtnmms our law.

from the general law of the land. For tills resaaon, diey
are invested with authority to make regulations for the
management of their own interests and affairs. These
regulations, however, must ncy be contrary to the over-
ruling laws of the ^aite ; for it will be remembered, that
these smaller societies, though moral p^ersons, are not ia
a state of natiural liberty. Their private statutes are kges
sub graviore iege^ ^^ Sodides, legem quam volent, dum
nequid ex publica lege.corrumpan^t, sibi ferunto^'' is a rule
as old as. the twelve tables of Rome.

. The general duties of every corpomtion may be c<d-
lected from the nature and design (tf its institution : it
should act agreeably to its nature, and fulfil the purposes
for which it wa3 formed.

But corporations are composed of individuals ; those
individuals are not exempted from the failings and fraiL
ties of humanity ; those failings and frailties may lead to
a deviation from the end of their establishment. Fortius
reason, as has already been observed, they ought to be
inspected with care. The law has provided proper persons
with proper powers to visit those institutions, and to cor-
rect every irregularity, which may arise within them. In
England, it has, by immemorial usage, appointed them to
be visited and inspected, in the court of king's bench,
according to the rules of the common law. We have
formerly seen," that the powers of the court of king's
bench are vested in the supreme court of Pennsylvania.

A corporation may surrender its legal existence into
• the hands of ths^t power, from which it was received*

^ l.BLCom.4r6. ^ Id.481. . <& Ante^p.S3r.

LECTURES DN LAW*
From such a surreiider, the dissolution of the body cor«
porate ensues. An aggregate corporation is dissolved by
the natural death of all its members. '^ By a judgment
of forfeiture against a corporation itself, it may be dis-
solved ; but not by a judgment of ouster against indivi-
^duals. God forbid—- such is the sentiment of Mr. Justice
Wilmot^— that the rights of the body should be lost or
destroyed by the offences of the members. ,

I

Suffice it to have said thus much concerning corpo*
rations, or subordinate societies established lyithin the
society at )ai*ge* ,

n 3. Burr. 1867.

. Id. 1S71.

\

CHAPTER XL

OF CITIZENS AND ALIENS.

JLaET us proceed to investigate stfll farther the com.^
ponent parts of which civil government and all its
subordinate establishments consist. They consist of
citizens. ^

I have already observed* that the social contract is a^
contract of a peculiar kind ; that when correctly analyzed,
it is found to be an assemblage of agreements equal, in
number, to the number of individuals who form the
society ; and that, to each of those agreements, a single
individual is one party, and all the other individuals of
the society are the other party.

The hitter party X have considered heretofore ; and
hafe eailed it ti^e people. The former party I am now
t» cenaider ; and, in order to avoid confusion, I call it,

^ Atttei p.5l3lr
LECTURES ON LAW.

in this discussion, the citizen ; and when I shall have
occasion to refer to more subordinate agreements than
one, I shall call the individuals, parties to them, by the
name of citizens.

' I know that the term citizen is often apjdiied to one
of the more numerous party — ^to one of the people : and
I shall be obliged to take the description of a citizen
from the character which he suppc^ts as one of the people.
But you "n^ill easily perceive, that the same person may,
at different times, act or be viewed in different charac-
ters ; and though his description be taken from one of
them, the account of his duties and of his rights too
may, on a particular occasion, be referred to the other.
This I have chosen to do, rather than to introduce an
unknown phrase, or to use a knowb phrase in a new
signification. Besides, the expression is frequendy
employed also in the sense in which I now use it. " Ge-
nerally speaking," says the great political authority, ^
Aristotle, " a citizen is one partaking equally of power
and of subordination."

A citizen then — ^to draw his description as one of
the people — I deem him, who acts a personal or a repre«
sented part in the legislation of his country. He has*
other rights ; but his legislative I consider as his charac-
teristick right. In this view, a citizen of the United
States is he, who is a citizen of at least some one state in
the Union: for the members pfthe^ house of representa-
tives in the national legislature are choseuy in each state^
by electors, who, in that state, have the qualifications
requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the

^ \. Hus. A&q. Eur. 362;.

LECTURES ON LAW. 433

State legislature.'^ In this view, a citizen qf Pennsylva-
aia is he, who has resided in the state two years ; and,,
within that time, has paid a state or county tax: or he.
18 between the ages of twenty one and twenty two years,
and the son of a citizen. ^
, •
, I have, on another occasion,^ traced the description
of a citizen in every other state of the Union: to your
recollection of that investigation, aiid to the constitutions
Qf the several states, I now refer you.

When a man acts as one of the numerous party to the
agreements, of which I have taken notice ; it is his right,
according. to the tenour of his agreements, to govern ;
Jie is one of the people* When he acts as the single par-
tf to that agreement, which he has made with all the
other members of the society ; it is his duty, according
to the tenour of his agreement, to obey ^ he is a single
citizen. Of this agreement. Indeed, it is impossible to
ascertain all tl^e articles. From the most obvious deduc*
tion of reason, however, one article may be specified,
beyond all possibility of doubt. This article, of prime
importance, is — :that to the publick will of the society,
the private will of every associated member must, in
matters respecting the social union, be subordinate and
submissive. The publick will of the societ}' is declared
by the laws. Obedience, therefore — civil obedience—-*
obedience to the laws and to the administration of the
laws — ^this is a distinguishing feature in the counte*
nance of a citizen, when he is seen from this . point of
view.

« Cons, U. S. art 1. s. 2. d Cons. Penn. art. 3, s- 1.

« Ante. p. 133— isr;
VQL. II. 3 K

434 LECTlTREft on LAW.

That men ought to be governed, seems to have been
agreed on all hands : the reason is, that, without govern*
ment, they coul4 never att^n any high or permanent
share of perfection or happiness. But the question has
been—by whom should they be governed i And thi<i has
been made ' a question, by reason of two others — by
whom can they be governed? — are they caps^de of
governing themselves ?

To this last question, Mr. Burke, in the spirit of his
late creed, has answered, in the negative. " Society^*'
says he, " requires not only that the passions of indivi-
duals should be subjected, but that even in the mass and
body as well as in the individuals, the inclinations of
men should frequently be thwarted, their will controUedf
and their passions brought into subjection. This can
only be done by a power out $/ thevuehes.^^ This nega">
tive answer has been, from time immemorial, the strong
hold of tyranny : and if this negative answer be the true
one, the strong hold of tyranny is, in fact, impregnable
to all the artillery of freedom. If men should be go. ^
vemed; and if they cannot govern themselves ; what is
the consequence? They must be governed by other
masters.

An opinion, however, has, by some, been entertained,
that the question, which I last mentioned, may receive
an answer in the affirmative. Men, it has beemthought,
are capable of governing, themselves. In the United
States, this opinion, which heretofore rested chiefly on
theory, has lately been putjn a train of fair practical ex-
periment. That this experiment, to human happiness so

^Refl.OQFr.Rev. 4r.

\

LECTURES ON LAW, 435

interesting, may be crowned with abundant and glorious
success, is, of all things in this world, the '^ consum-
mation most devoutly to be wished."

' But to its glorious and abundant success, the obedi-
ence of the citizens is of a necessity, absolute and su.
preme. The question, which has been proposed-^the
question, in the negative answer to which, tyranny has
triumphed so long and so generally^ — ^the question, con-
cerning which philosophers and patriots have indulged,
and been pleased with indulging, a contrary sentiment —
the question, which, in the United States, is now put
upon an experiment — ^this all-important question is-^not
merely nor chiefly— are men capable of governing ? Of
this, even tyrants will admit the afiirmative; and will
point to themselves as living proofs of its truth. But the
question is — are men capable of governing themselves f
In other words ; are they qualified-— and are they dis-
posed to be their own masters f For a moral as well as
an intellectual capability is involved in the question. In
still other words ; are they qualified— rand are they dis-
posed to obey themselves ? For to government, the cor-
relative inseparable is obedience. To think, to speak, or
to act, as if the former may be exercised, and, at the
same time, the la^tter may not be performed, is to think,
to speak, or to act, in a manner the most contradictory
and absurd.

By a long and minute deduction, I proved, in a former
lecture, s that, on the true principles of freedom, a
man is the only human power, by whom he himself can
be bound* It requires but a very small variation of phrase,

f Ante, vol 1. p. 211. et seq.

436 LECTURES ON LAW«

and none of sentiment, to say, that on the true princi-
ples of freedom, man is the only human power, by whom
he himself can be governed.

Are we made so waywardly, that what, in principle,
is true and right, must, in practice, be false and wrong ?
Surely not.

Is the safety of man endangered by obedience i What
can be a source of greater security, than to be governed
only by a law, which has been made by himself, and by
others, with whom he participates a general identity of
interest, and a perfect equality of duties and of rights ?

Is the freedom of man infringed by performing the
service of obedience to such a law, made as has been
mentioned ? This service bears, we think, a resemblance
as near as, being human, it can bear, to that service,
which, with a propriety truly striking and strong, is de-
nominated "perfect freedom."

Is the dignity of man degraded by observing a law i
The* Supreme of Being ! — ^he himself worketh not with-
out a rule !

In a moral view, self government increases, instead
of impairing, the security, the liberty, and the dignity
of the man; in 2l political vitw^ self government increases,
instead of impairing, the security, the liberty, and the
dignity of the citizen*

Attend now to the result of the whole. — In a free and
,well constituted government, the first duty of its every
member is— obedience to the laws. That they be true

{.ECfUAEB ON LAW«

,437

and faithful to themselves, is thie allegiance, which a
legitrmate republick requires from her citizens : to them-
selves they cannot be true and faithful, unless they obey
as well as make the laws^— unless, in the terms in which
a citizen has been defined, they partake of subordination
as well as of power.

As a citizen of a republican government owes obedi*
cnce to the laws ; so he owes a decent, though a dignified
respect to those who administer the laws. In monarchies,
there is a political respect of person : in commonwealths,
there should be a political respect to office. In monar*
^chies, there are ranks, preeminences, and dignities, all
personal and hereditary. In commonwealths, too, there
are ranks, preeminences, arid dignities ; but all official
and successive. In monar^chies, respect is paid without
a prospect of return. In conimonwealths, ' one may,
next year, succeed, as an officer, to the respect, which,
this year, he pays as a citizen. The dignities of- office
are open to all. ^

You will be pleased to hear, that, with regard to thit
as well as to many other subjects, we have renewed, Jn
our governments, the principles and the practice of the
ancient Saxons. Between dignity and duty, no separa-
tion was made by them. In the early period of the An-
glo-Saxon state, the allodial proprietors were numerous;
their estates, were generally small ; and all were under-
stood to be of the same rank and condition. Some, in-
deed, were distinguished above others by their charac-
ter and their talents ; but the superiority derived from
this source was accompanied with no legal preeminence
or power.^

I'MiUar. 236.

4SS LECTtJREft ON LAW.

So likewise it was in. the heroick ages of Greece : no
distinction was then known among men, except the dis-
tinction, truly honourable, which arose from a difference
of abilities and merit. '

Tides of npbility in England, though now merely
personal, were, in their origin, altogether official. The
heretoch or duke was intrusted with a military depart-
ment : the marquis was appointed to guard the frontiers
<^r marches of the country : the alderman or earl was, as
we formerly saw, the first civil officer of the shire. In
the juridical history of England, the first arbitrary tide
of honour, without the shadow of office or duty annexed
to it, makes its appearance so late as the reign of Henry
the sixth.

r

Under a republican government, it is prudent as well
as proper^^it is the interest as well as the duty of the
citizens, to show a political respect for office. In the
government they have an interest: in every office and
department of the government they have an interest :
this interest requires, that every department and every
office should be well filled : in a commonwealthf respect
attached to office is frequendy the principal inducement
to its acceptance by those, who are qualified to fill it
well.

On the citizen under a republican government, a
third duty, more severe, it may be thought, than either
of die former, is strictly incumbent. Whenever a com-
petition unavoidably takes place between bis interest and
that of the publick, to the latter the former must be

i 1. GilL 49.

LECTURES ON LAW. 439

the devoted sacrifice. By the will and by the interest of
the community, every private will and every private ih»
terest must be bound and overruled. Unless this maxim
be estaUished and observed ; it is impossible that civil
government could be formed or supported. Fortunate^
however, it is, that in a government formed wisely and
administered impartially, thi^ unavoidable competition
can seldom take place, at least in any very great dfcgree.

If the sacrifice, which I have mentioned, is demand*
ed and enforced by the publick, when the competition
does not unavoidably take place ; or if it is demanded
and enforced farther or longer than the existing compe-
tition indispensably requires ; it is tyranny ; it is not
government.

The citizen has rights as well as duties : the latter he
is obliged to perform : , the former he is entitled to enjoy
or recover. To that original contract of association, to
which, in our reasonings concerning government, an ap-
peal must so often be made, he is a party ; nay, in point
of right, a party, voluntary, independent, equal. On
one side, indeed, there stands a ^single individual: on
the other side, perhaps, there stand millions : but right
is weighed by principle ; it is not estimated by numbers.

. From the necessity of the case, as was shown on a for-
mer occasion,^ if a controversy arises between the par-
ties to the social agreement, the numbers, or a selection
fro^i the^numbers, must be the judges as well as one of
the parties. But, because those of one party must, from
the necessity of the peculiar case, b^he judges likewise ;

. docs it follow, that they are absolved from that strict

i Ante. p. 314.

440 LECTURES ON LAW*

obligation, bj^ which every judge is sacredly bound to
administer impartial justice ? Does it follow, that-thejr
may, with avidity, listen td all the interested suggestions,
the advice of which a party would pursue i When the
same person is and must be both judge and party; the
character of the judge ought not to be sunk in that oC
the par^ ; but the character of the party should be ez«-
ahed to that of the judge.

I

When questions— -especially pecuniary questioiu—
arise between a state and a citizen— more especiyiy stiUf
wh«n those questions are, as they generally must be, sub«
mitted to the decision of those, who are not <Hdy par*
^ ties and judges, but legislators^ also ; the sacred impar-
tiality of the second character, it must be owned, is too
frequently lost in the sordid interestedness of the first,
and in the arrogant power of the third. This, I repeat
it, is tyranny : and tyranny, though it may be more foi^
midabie and more oppressive, is .neither less odious nor
less unjust*— is neither less dishonourable to the charac-
ter of . one party, nor less hostile to the rights of the
other, because it is proudly prefaced by the epithet-
legislative. He, who refuses the payment of an bon^f&at
demand upon the pnblick, because it is in his power to
refuse it, would refuse the payment of his private debt,
if he was equally protected in the refusal. He, who
robs as a legislator, because he dares, would rob as a
highwayman — if he dared.

And are the publick gainers by this I Even if they
were, it would be no consideration. The paltry gain
would be but as dust in the balance, when weighed
against the loss of character — for as the world becomes
more enlightened, and as the principles of justice be-

LECTURES ON LAW. 441

come better understood, states as well as individuals
have a character to lose—- the paltry gain, I say, would
be but as dust in the balance, when weighed against
the loss of character, and against the many other perni-
cious effects which must flow from the example of pub-
lick 'injustice. But the truth is, that the publick must
be losers, instead of being gainers, by a conduct of this
kind. The mouth, which will not utter the sentiments
of truth in favour of an* honest demand, may be easily
taught to repeat tKe lessons of falsehood in favour of
an unjust one. To refuse fair claims, is/ to encourage
fraudulent ones, upon the commonwealdi. Litde loglck
is required to showt, that the same vicious principles and
diq>ositions, which oppose the former, will exert tlieir
selfish, or their worse than selfish, influence to support
the latter.

I think I have proved, that if the sacrifice, which
has been mentioned, is demanded and enforced by the
puUick, when the competition between publick and pri-
vate interest does not take place, it is tyranny, and not
government ; folly, and not wisdom. I have added, that
if this sacrifice is demanded and enforced farther or
longer than the competition indispensably requires, this,
too, is tyranny, and not government. This likewise
it is easy to prove. '

* • -

There may be times, when, to the interest, perhaps
to the liberty of the state, every private interest and re-
gard ought to be devoted. At those times, such may be
the situation and the peril of the common weakh— for it
16' in perilous and distracted times, that, by the citizen)B,
extraordinary exertions of duty ought to be made— at
diose timeS) a citizen obeys his duty's and his country's

VOL. lU 3 L

442 ^GTUR£S ON LAW.

sacred call ; he makes the necessary sacrifices, withoiift

expressly stipulating for a redompense : of demandisg

9uch a stipulatioq, the impiropriety and the indelicaqr

may be equally evident. Great sacrifices and great

exertions are made with faithfulness and zeal ; periuqps,

with considerable success. The perils disappear: to

dbtraction and danger, peace and serenity succeed:' tbe

pommonwealth becomes flourishing and opulent* Ougbfc

the sacrifice, which, in the hour of her distress a»d

danger, was made at her call, to be continually enforced

and demanded by her, after the dsmger a^d distress are

over i But thi^ sacrifice is demanded and enforced co&p

tinually, if this citizen has neither received, nor had it

in his power to recover, that recoinpense, which is ju^

This case — ^if such a case has ever happened*— mAy g«

without any actual redress ; but it caii never go witboiit

well grounded complaint.

There is a sacrifice of another kind, not indeed so greal,
but, on some occasions, very vexatious, which is requi>-
red of a -citizen under a republican govemmjeatt usviecea-
sarily, and against his rights. He is frequency pestefed
with a number of frivc^ou^ ambiguous, perplexed, and
contradictory laws. The very best constitutions are IbdJe
to some complaints. What may be called the rage of
legislatioh is a distemper prevalent 'ande{ttdemical among
republican governments.

Every article of the social contract cannot b^ ascer-
tained : some of its leading principles cannoi easii^ be
mistaken. , One certainly is, that, in a free stale, dbe
law should impose no restraint up<m the wiU ef the citi-
zen, but such as will be productive af adiiaatage, puUkk
•r private^ suSkient to overbalance the disadvantages of

LXCTURES OK LAW.' 441

llie restraint : . for, after all, we shall find that the citizen
was made for the sake of the man. The proof of this
advantage lies upon the legislature. If a law is even
harmless $ the very circumstance of its heing a law^ is
itself a barm. This remark might be remembered, with
profit, in the revision of many codes of law. In a word ;
|rovernment and human laws are necessary ; if good,
tiiey are inestimable, in, the present state. It must be
admitted, however, that they are a burthen and a yoke:
they should resemble that yoke which is easy, and that
burthen which is light.

The citizen under a free government has a right
to think, to speak, to write, to print, and to publisl^
freely, but with decency and truth, concerning publick
men,^ puUiek bodies, and publick measures.

Thus much concerning tho duties and the rights of a
private citizen.

I am next to treat of aliens.

homo sum^-

NihA Ittini^ alieatim a me pata

If this humane maxim had prevailed, as it ought to
have prevailed, in the establ^shmei^t of government, and
the formation of laws ; the title, which relates to aliens,
would have been of an impcMrt very different from what
we generally find it to be.

,. The contracted and debasing spirit of monopoly has
not been peculiar to oomtiaerce ; it has raged, with

\

^

\

AJjL

W » 9

XKCTURES ON LAW*

/

equal violence, and with «qual mischief, in law aad
politicks.

In ancient times, every alien was considered as aa
enemy. The rule, I think, should be reversed. None
but an enemy should be considered as an alien— I mean
— as to the acquisition and the enjoyment, of property*
The rights of citizenship are the rights of parties.to fjie
social compact. Even to these, aliens should be permitted
to accede upon easy tenhs.

This subject is of high importance to the United
States ; to Pennsylvania, in particular.

«

\Vhen I speak of the contracted rule, which prevailed
in ancient times, I mean to speak, and I wish to be
understood, with some illustrious . esiceptiohs* These
deserve to be distinctly pointed out. From them, valua-
ble instruction may be drawn.

The general policy of the Egyptians was unfriendly to
strangers. It is even said of them, that they were accus-
tomed to kills or reduce to slavery, all those whom they
found upon their coasts ; except at one city only, at
which they were allowed to land and trade. But Psam-
meticus, one of their princes', observed maxims of a
more humane and enlightened nature. He favoured
navigation in his seus ^ ht opened ;his ports to the cc»n-
merce of all nations; and he graated every kind of encou-
ragement to every one, who would settlle in Egypt.
Amasis, one of his successours, governed, by the same
principles, his .behaviour towards foreigners. He con-
ferred mdny benefits upon the Grecians ; and even allowed

LECTURES ON LAW. 44S

tiiem to erect altars and temples. Under the govern-
ment of Amasis, it is observed, Egypt was perfectly
happy, k

Under the famous Theseus, the rival and the friend
of Hercules, strangers were invited to participate the
privfleges of Athens : from all parts the invitation was
accepted ; and the new citizens were incorporated with
the ancient Athenians* Every thing now, it is added,
seemed favourable to his views : he governed a free
people with moderation and benevolence ; he was esteem-
ed and beloved by the neighbouring nations ; and he en-
joyed a foretaste of that profound veneration, with which
succeeding ages gradually honour the memory of great
laen.^

This policy, enlarged and generous, was continued in
Attica, during many ages after Theseus ; and rendered
that celebrated country the most frequent resource of the
miserable. On a particular occasion, the descendants
of the great Hercules, devested of their possessions and
driven into banishn^ent by one of the vicissitudes of thet
times, enjoyed the advantages of the policy introduced by
the friend of their ancestor : they were received by the
Athenians. "

When it was, in the time of Lysias, attempted to con-
tract the foundation of the Athenian, government ; this
part of their ancient policy is, in his oration against that
attempt, mentioned with particular respect. " As to my-
self, I hold it to be the best security for the state, that all

k S. Gog Or. Laws. 15. 16. ^ 1. Anac. 31. 32. *

m 1. GilL 69.

446 L£CT|7&£8 OH hAW.*

have an equal share in. the government. When fofmerl)!
we built walls, and acquired a fieet^ and money, and aUies |
we regarded not these advantages as obtained only for
ourselves ; we shared them with the Eubaeans, by esta-
blishing the right of intermarriage. Sucl^ were, once our
principles : by bestowing on strangers the honours, of om;
country, we rendered them our friends : shall we nosfir
by degrading our fellow citizens, render thei^i our ene^
mies ? Never let this t^ke place.'"*

^^ By those states," says my Lord Bacon, in his book
concerning the augmentation of the sciences, ^^ who have
, easily and liberally commvmicated.the right of citizenship,
greatness has been most successfully acquired. No com-^
monwealth opened its bosom so wide for the reception
of new citizens, as the commonwealth of Rome. The
fortune of. the empire was correspondent to the wisdom
of the institution ; for it became the largest on the fape
of the earth* It was their custom to confer the right of
citizenship in the most speedy manner ; and in the highest
degree too — I mean not only the right of commerce^ the
right of marriage, the right of inheritance ; but even the
right of suffrage, and the right to the offices and the
honours of the. republick. So that it may be said, not
that the Romans extended themselves over the whole
globe, but that the inhabitants of the globe poured them-
selves upon the Romans. This is the mLOst secure method
of enlarging an empire." ^

My Lord Hale, ajtiother lawyer of eminent name,
speaks in the same spirit. ^^ The shutting out of aliens,"

» Gil. Lys. and hoc 319. • t Ld. Bac. 345.

LECTURES ON LAW.
says he, ^^ tends to the loss of people, which, laboriouslj
employed, are the true riches of any country." '

In the law of Englsmd, there i^ a distinction between
two kinds of aliens— those who are friends, and those
who are enemies. Among alien enemies a subfdivision
is made, or at least was made till lately, which must occa-
sion some degree of astonishment. Alien enemies are
-distinguished into such as are temporary, and such as
are perpetual. Nay ; what is more ; this line of distinc*
tion, certainly never drawn by the peaceful spirit of Chris-
tianity, is attempted to be marked by the progress of the
christian system. " All infidels" — these are the expres-
sions of my Lord Coke in the report of Calvin's case —
*' all infidels are perpetual enemies ; the law presumes not
thatthey will be converted ; between them, as with the
devils, whose subjects they are, and the christian, there
is' perpfetuid hostility ; and can be no peace ;" — for he
fortifies the favourite sentiment by a pleonasm : he goes
farther — ^he attempts to fortify it by the language, tor-
tured surely, of Christianity itself. *' Qua autem con-
ventio Christi ad Belial ; aut quae pars fideli f uni infi-
.deli."^ - ^

** Upon this ground," continues he, " there is a diver-
sity between a conquest of the kingdom of a christian
king, and the conquest of that of an infidel. In the
former case, the ancient laws of the kingdom remain,
till they are altered by the conqueror : in the latter c^se,
they are immediately abrogated ; and, till new laws be
established, the conqueror shall judge them according tm
natural equity." *■

» 1. Bac 76. ¥ent 427. . 5 2. Cor, VI. liv r ^. Rep. jn

448 LECTUS.ES OK LATT.

The character of an opinion, like the character of a
man, may be illustrated by tracing its history and pedi-
gree. The opinion, that ^^ the common law of England,
as such, has no allowance or authority in, the American
plantations," is the bastard child of this bastard mother,
begotten on her body by the Commentaries' on the laws
of England. This very case of Calvin, and this very
part of Calvin's cas^, is cited — ^none better could be
cited — as the authority for an opinion, which was calcu-
lated to cut off the noblest inheritance of the colonies :
to use, for once, a language technically legal, die colonies
were mulier^ though they were puisne — they were legiti-
mate, though they were young.

But to return to the subject of alienage — ^an alien,
according to the notion commonly received as law, is one
bom in a strange country and in a foreign society, to
which he is presumed to have a natural and a necessaTy
allegiance. ^

Errour, as well as truth, is sometimes connected by a
regular chain.' A man is deemed a dangerous enemy or
a suspicious friend to that country in which he wishes to^
reside, because he is previously deemed an appurtenant
or a slave to that country in which he chanced to be bom.
Such is on^of the consequences of "natural and necessary
allegiance.''

Between alien friends, who are temporary subjects,
and subjects naturalized or natural bom, a species of sub-
jects intermediate is known to the law of England. They
are distinguished by the appellation of denizens. The

* l.Bl.Con3L lor. < LBac r6.

LECTURES ON LAW. 449

power of denization is a high and incommunicable por-
tion '^ of the prerogative royal. A denizen is received
into the natioji, like a person who is dropt from the clouds*
He may acquire rights, but he cannot inherit them, not
even from his own parent : he may. transmit rights to his
children, who are born after his letters patent of denii^a-
tion ; but not to those who were born before. A denizen
may be moulded into a thousand fantastical shapes : he
may be a denizen in tail, a denizen for life, a denizen for
years, a denizen upon condition, a denizen in one court
of justice, and an alien in another. ^ Of those modifica-
tions, however, a subject naturalized is unsusceptible ;
because, we are told, they would be inconsistent with
the purity, the absoluteness, and the indelibility of natural
allegiance* ^ For a sound rule, we receive an unsound
reason.

Between a subject naturalized and a subject natural
•born, the distinction is merely nominal as to private
rights: it applies only to the manner, in which those
rights are devolved. On one they are devolved by his
birth : on the other, by the consent of the nation, ex-
pressed in the parliament. With regard, however, to
J)ublick rights, the case is widely different. By statutes
made even since the revolution, no subject naturalized
can be a member of parliament ; and no bill for natural-
ization can be received in either house of parliament,
without such a disabling clause. ^

Britain seems determined to mer^t and to perpe-
tuate, in political as well as geographical accuracy, the

« 1. M. Com. 374. ^ 1. Ins. 129. a.

w 1. Ins. 139. a. x 1* Bl. Com. 374.

VOL. II. 3 m:

450 LECTURES ON LAW*

description, by which it was markeoL many centuries

— divUos toto orbe Britannos.

What a very different spirit animates and pervades her
American sons ! Indeed it is proper chat it should do so.
The insulated policy of the British nation would as ill
befit the expansive genius of our institutions, as the hills,
the ponds, and the rivulets, which are scattered over
their island, would adequately represent the mountains,
and rivers, and lakes of the United States. ^^ In the new
world" — I speak now from one of the finest writers of
Britain'' — " in the new world nature seems to have carried
. on her operations with a bolder hand, and to have dis-
tinguished the features of the country by a peculiar mag^
nificence. The mountains of America are much supe-
riour in height to those in the other divisions of the
globe. From those lofty mountains descend rivers pro-
portionably large. Its lakes are no less conspicuous for
grandeur, than its mountains and rivers." We imitate,
for we ought to imitate, the operations of nature ; and the
features of our policy, like those of our country, are dis-
tinguished by a peculiar magnificence.

In a former lecture, * we have seen how easily the
essential rights of citizenship can be acquired in the
United States, and in every state of the* Union. Let us
now see, how liberally the doors arc thrown open for
admission to the publick trusts and honours, as well as
to the private rights and privileges, of our country.

At the end of two years from the time, at which a
foreigner " of good character" — ^for numbers without

7 ?.Rob.Amer.3.4^ « Ante, p, 133. et seq.

LECTURES ON LAW. 451

Virtue are not our object — a former mode of " better
peopling his majesty's plantations" is now fallen into dis-
repute— at the end of two years from the time,* at which
a foreigner of good character sets his foot in this land
of generosity as well as freedom, he is entitled to become,
if he chooses,^ a citizen of our national government.
At the end of seven years, a term not longer than
that which is frequently required for an apprenticeship
to the plainest trade, the citizen may become legislator ;
for he is eligible as a representative in the congress of
the United States.^ After having, in that capacity,,
undergone the honourable but short probationship of
two years, the doors even of our national senate are
opened as far as to receive him. ^

In Pennsylvania, the citizen may become a repre-
sentative ^ at the end of three,' a senator,^ at the end of
four, and govemour ^ of the commonwealth, at the end
of seven years.

It would be tedious, and it is unnecessary, to multi-
ply particulars, by going through all the sister states;
In this, as in other respects, in which we have viewed
them, we are still pleased with the

•

— &cies, qualis decet esse sororum.

The rights and the disabilities of aliens with regard
to property, especially with regard to landed property,

^ By; the law now in force, a residence of five'years is required.
Xaws U. S. 7. cong. 1. sess. c. 28. Ed.

b Laws U. S. 1. cong. 2. sess. c. 3. c Cons. U. S. art 1. s. 2.

d Cons, U. S. art 1. s, 3. ^ Cons. Penn. art 1. s. 3.

^ Cons. Penn. art 1. s. 8. g Art 2. s. 4

452 I.ECTUREB ON LAV. l

forma a subject of investi^tion both interesting aid
nice. But, according to my uniform method, I postpooe
it until I arrive at the second great division -of my systtn.
The examination of general principles should pretaie
that of panicular rules.

One opinion, however, I will now mention .- itseemj
to be founded on the authority of Sir Henry Spelmm
and the Grand Custumier of Normandy. The opinion -
is, that the law, by which an alien is prohibited Itom

CHAPTER XII.

OF THE NATURAL RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.

W E have now viewed the whole structure of govern-
ment ; we have now rang;ed over its numerous apart-
ments and divisions ; and we have examined the materials

454 LECTURES ON LAW,

J must add, all this is true. It is true ih the dark; it
is true eren in the enlightened portions of the globe.

At, and nearly at the commencement of these lectures,
a sense of duty obliged me to enter into a controversial
discussion concerning the rights of society : the same
sense of duty now obliges me to enter into a similar
discussion concerning the rights of the constituent parts
of society — concerning the rights of men. To enter
upon a discussion of this nature, is neither the most
pleasant nor the most easy part of my business. Bat
when the voice of obligation is heard, ease and pleasure
must preserve the respectful silence, and show the cheer-
ful acquiescence, which become them.

What was the primary and the principal object in the
institution of government ? Was it— I speak of the pri-
mary and principsjl object — was it to acquire new rights
by a human establishment ? Or was it, by a human es-
tablishment, to acquire a new security for the possession
or the recovery of those rights, to the enjoyment or
acquisition of which we were previously entitled by the
immediate gift, or by the unerring law, of our aD-wise
and all-beneficent Creator i

The latter, I presume, was the case : and yet we are
told, that, in order to acquire the latter, we must sur-
render the former ; in other words, in order to acquire
the security, we must surrender the great objects to be
secured. That man *' may secure fome liberty, he makes
a surrender in trust of the whole of it." — These expres-
sions are copied literally from the. late publication of Mr»
Burke. •

• Re& on Fr. Rev. 47.

LECTURES ON LAW* 455

Tyranny, at some times, is uniform in her principles*
The feudal system was introduced by a specious and
successful maxim, the exact counterpart of that, which
has been advanced by Mr. Burke — exact in every parti-
cular but one ; and, in that one, it was more generous.
The free and allodial proprietors of land were told that
they must surrender it to the king, and take back — ^not
merely " some,'* but — ^the whole of it, under some cer-
tain provisions, which, it was said, would procure a
valuable object — the very object was security — security
for their property. What was the result ? They received
their land back again, indeed ; but they received it,
loaded with all the oppressive burthens of the feudal
servitude — cruel, indeed j so far as the epithet cruel can
be applied to matters merely of property.

But all the other rights of men are in question here.
For liberty is frequectly used to denote all the absolute
rights of men. " The absolute rights of every English-
man," says jSir William Blackstone, "are, in a political
and extensive sense, usually called their liberties." ^

And must we surrender to government the whok
of those absolute rights ? But we are to surrender them
only — in trust: — another brat of dishonest parentage is
now attempted to be imposed upon us: but for what
purpose ? Has government provided for us a superin*
tending court of equity to compel a faithful performance
of the trust ? If it had ; why should we part with the
legal title to our rights ?

After all ; what is the mighty boon« which is to allure
us into thki surrender i We are to surrehder all that

k 1. Bl, Com. 12r.

4S6

LEGTUACft ON LAW*

we may secure ^* some :" and this " some," both as to
its quantity and its certain^, is to depend on the pLea-
Aure of that power, to which the surrender is made* Is
this a bargain to be proposed to those, who are both in-
telligent and free ? No. Freemen, who know and love
their rights, wiU not exchange their armour of pure and
massy gold, for one of a baser and lighter metal, how-
ever finely il» may be blazoned with ttnsel : but they will
not refuse to make an exchange >upon terms, which are
honest and honourable-— terms, which maybe advantatge-
ous to all, and injurious to none*

The opinion has been very general, that, in order to
obtain the blessings of a good government, a sacri&ce
must be made of a part of our natural liberty* I am
much inclined to believe, that, upon examination, this
opinion will, prove to be fallacious* It will, I think, be
found, that wise and good government— -I speak, at pre-
sent, of no other*-4nstead of contracting, enlarges as
-well as secures the exercise of the natural liberty of
man : mid what I say of his natural liberty, I mean to
extend, and wish to be understood, through all this ar-
gument, as extended, 1;^ aU his other natural rights*

This investigation will open to our j>rospect, from a
new and striking point of view, the very dose and inter-
esting connexion, which si^ists between the law of
nature and municipal law* This investigation, therefore,
will richly repay us for all the pains we may employ,
and all the attention we may besttow, in making it.

« The law," says Sir William Mackstone, " which
Tcstrains a ntan from doing mischief to his fellow ciu«
zens, though it diminishes the natural, increases the

LECTURES ON LAMT, 4ST

civil liberty of mankind, c " Is it a part of natural
liberty to do mischief to jany one ?

In a former part of these lectures, I had occasion to
describe what natural liberty is : let us recur to the de-
scription, which was then given. ^ " Nature has im-
planted in man the desire of his ow^ happiness ; she has
inspired him with many tender alFections towards others^
especially in the near relations of life ; she has endowed
him with intellectual and with active powers j she has
furnished liim with a natural impulse to exercise his
powers for his own happiness, and the happiness of those
for whom he entertains such tender affections. If all
this be true, the, undeniable consequence is, that he has
a right to exert those powers for the accomplishment of
those purposes, in such- a manner, and upon such ob-
jects, as his inclination and judgment shall direct ; pro-
vided he does no injury to others ; and provided some
publick interests do n6t demand his labours. This right
is natural liberty." ^

If this description of natural liberty is a just one, it
will teach us, that selfishness and injury are as little
coi^ntenanced by the law of natur^ as by the law of nian*
Positiv^ penalties, indeed) may, by human laws, be an-
nexed to both. But these penalties are a restraint only
upon injustice and overweening self-love, not upon the
exercise of natural liberty. .

In a state of natural liberty, every one is allowed to
act according to his own inclination, provided he trans*
gress not those liniits, which are assigned to him by the

c t Bl Com. 125. 126. d Ante. voL 1. p. 309.

VOL. II. - 3 N

V

^58 LECTURES OK LAV.

law of nature : in a state of civil liberty, he is alloired
to act according to his inclination, provided he trans-
gress not those limits, which are assigned to him by the
municipal law. True it is, that, by the municipal law,
some things may be prohibited, which are not prohibited
by the law of nature: but equally true it is, that, imder
a government which is wise and good, every citizen wiQ
gain more liberty than he can lose by these prohibitions.
He will gain more by the limitation of other men's free-
dom, than he can lose by the diminution of his own.
He will gain more by the enlarged and undisturbed ex-
ercise of his natural liberty in innumerable mstances^
than he can lose by the restriction of it in a few*

Upon the whole, therefore, man's natural liber^,
instead of being abridged, may be increased and se-
cured in a government, which is good and wise. As
it is with regard to his natural liberty, so it is with re-
gard to his other natural rights.

But even if a part was to be given up, does it follow
that all must be surrendered ? ** Man," says Mr. Burke,*
" cannot enjoy the rights of an uncivil and of a civil
state together.*' By an " uncivil" contradistinguished
from a " civil " state, he must here mean a state of na-
ture ; by the rights of this uncivil state, he must mean
the rights of nature : said is it possible that natural and
civil rights cannot be enjoyed together ? Are they really
incompatible ? Must our rights be removed from the
stable foundation of nature, and placed on the precarious
and fluctuating basis of human institution? JSuch seems
to be the sentiment of Mr. Burke : and such. too seenfs

'^Re&oaFr.Rev. 47.

* • r

LECTtTRES ON LAW.^ 459

\t have been the sentiment of a much higher authorit](
than Mr* Burke-— Sir William Blackstone.

In the Analysis of his Commentaries, he mentions
** the right of personal security, of personal liberty, and
of private property '^^ — ^not as the natural rights, which, I
confess, I should, have expected, but — ^as the ** civ^l li«
berties" of Englishmen. In his Commentaries, speaking
of the same three rights, he admits that they are found-
ed on nature and reason j but adds *^ " their establish-
ment, excellent as it is, is still human.'' Each of those
rights he traces severally and particularly to magfna char-
ta, .which he justly considers as for the most part de-
claratory of the principal grounds of the fundamental
laws of England.^ He says indeed, ' that they are\
** either that residuum of natural liberty, which is not
required by the laws of society to be sacrificed topublick
convenience ; or else those civil privileges, which socie-
ty has engaged to provide, inlieu of the natural liberties
so given up by individuals." He makes no explicit de-
claration which of the two, in his opinion, they are ; bu^
since he traces them to magna charta and the fundanien*.
tal laws of England ; since he calls them ^^ civil liberties ;"
and since he says expressly, that their establishment is
human ; we have reason to think, that he viewed them
as coming under the latter part of his description-— as
civil privileges, provided by society, in lieu of the na-
tiifal liberties giveh up by individuals. Considered in
this view, there is no material diiFerence between the
doctrine of Sir William Blackstone, and that delivered
by *Mfl Burke.

^B. 1. c 1. 8. 8. c L BL Com. IST,

klA ISS. 'Id. 129.

460 LECTURES ON LAW.

•

If this view be a just view of things, the consequence,
undeniable and unavoidable, is, that, under civil go-
vernment, individuals have '* given up'* or " surrender-
ed" their rights, to which they were entided by nature
and by nature's law; and have received, in lieu of.
them, those ** civil privileges^ which society has engaged
to provide."

If this view be a just view of things, then the conse-
quence, undeniable and unavoidable, is, that, under
civil government, the right of individuals to their pri-
vate property, to their personal liberty, to their health,
to their reputation, and to their life, flow from a human
establishment, and can be traced to no higher source.
The connexion between man and his natural rights is in-
tercepted by the institution of civil society.

If this view be a just view of things, then, under civil
society, man is not only made ybr, but made by the go-
vernment : he is nothing but what the society frames :
he can claim nothing but what the society provides.
His natural state and his natural rights are withdrawn
altogether from notice : " It is the civil social man,''
«ays Mr. Burke, ^ " and no other j whom I have in my
contemplation."

If this view be a just view of things, why should wc
not subscribe the following articles of a political creed,
proposed by Mr. Burke. '

" We wisKed, at the period of the revolution, and
we now wish to derive all we possess, as an inherit'

kRefl. onFr. ^cv. 4;^.

LECTURES QW LAW. 461

♦.

once from aur forefathers* Upoi^ that body and stock of
inhqr itance, we have taken /care not to .^nnoculate any >
cy on alien to the nature of the original phmf • All the .
reformations we have hitherto made, have proceeded ^
upon the principle of.referencfe to antiquity ; and I hope, i
nay I am persuaded, that all those, which possibly may,
be made hereafter, will be carefully formed upon analo-.:
gical precedent, authority, and example."

" Our oldest reformation is that of magna charta. >
« You will see that Sir Edward Coke, that great oracle of <
our law, and indee4 ^ ^be great men who follow him,
to Blackstone, are industrious to prove the pedi^ee of
our liberties."

Let us observe, by the. way, that the only ppsitipn, ,
relating to this subject, for which I find the authority of I
my Lord Coke quoted,* is a position, to which eveiy
one, who knows the history of the common law, will
give his immediate and most unreserved a§sernt: the
position is — " that magna charta was, for the most,
part, declaratory of the principal grounds of the funda-
mental laws of England," But Mr. Burke proceeds.

"They endeavour to prove, that the ancient char-^ ^
ter, the magna charta of King John, was connected with .
another positive charter from Henry the first ; and that
both the one and the other were nothing more than a re-
affirmance of the still more ancient standing law of the
kingdom. In the matter of fact, for the. greater part,
these authors appear to be in the right; perhaps not
always : but if the lawyers mistake in some particulars,

1 1. BL Com. 137. 128.

itpr6ves mj^ poskton still the more strongly ; becatise it
dl^monstrates the powerful prepossession towards anti-
qtif ty, with which the minds of all our lawyers and legisla-
tors, atid of all the people whom they wish to influenee,
have been always filled ; and the stationary ' policy of
this kingdom in considering their most sacred rights and
fraftehtses as an inheritance J^**^

It is proper to pause here a little. — If, in tracing the
pedigree of our " most sacred rights," one was permit-
ted to indulge the same train of argument aiid reflection,
which would be just and natural in the investigation of
inferiour titles, we should be prompted to inquire, how
it happens, that ^^ mistakes in some particulars'' would
prove more strongly the general point to be established.
Would mistakes in some particulars respecting a title to
land, or the genealogy of a family, prove more strongly
the validity of one, or the antiquity of the other \

But I must do Mr. Burke justice. The reason,
^ich he assigns, why the making of those mistakes
proves his position the more strongly, is, because it
proves the ** ^werfvil prepossession towards antiquity."
Of this prepossession I will controvert neither the exist-
ence nor the strength : but I will ask-^oes it prove the
point in question ?— Does it prove the truth arid correct-
ness of even the civil pedigree of the liberties of En-
gland ? Is predilection an evidence of right i Is property
or any thing else, which is| in litigation, decided to
* belong to him, who shows the strongest affection for it i
If, in a controversy concerning an inferiour object, the
penfon, who claitns it, ami who undertsd^ea to "substan-'

m RelLbn Fr. Rev. 34.

LECTUIISS ON LAW* / 46S

tiate bis cUum, should own, that, in deducing his chain of
tidcj some mistakes were made ; but should urge even
those mistakes as an argument in his behalf, because
his perseverance in his suit, notwithstanding those mis-
takes, demonstrates his powerful attachment for the
tiling in disp«i.te ; what would a discerning courN-*what
would an unbiassed jtiry think of his conduct? I believe
the j^ would not think that it paid any extraordinary com^
pUment, either to their impartiality or to their under-
standing.

I begin now to hesitate, whether we should subscribe
the political creed of Mr* Burke. .Let us, however,
proceed and examine some of its other articles.

Some one, it seems, had been so hardy as to allege,
that the king of Great Britain owes his crown to *^ the
choice of his people." This doctrine, says Mn Burke,
^^ aihrms a most unfounded, dangerous, illegal, and
unconsUtuj^nal position." ^^ Nothing can be more
untrue, than that the crown of this kingdoni is so held
py his niajesty." n . To disprove the assertion, ^* that the
king of Great Britain owes his crown to the choice of
his people," Mr. Burke has recourse to the declaration
of rights, which was made at the accession of King WiU
Uam and Queen Mary« *^ This declaration of right,*'
says he, ^^ is the comer stone of our constitution, as rem
enforced^ explained, improved, and in Its fundamental
principles /(7r ever settled. It is called an * act for decla-
ring the rights and liberties of the subject, void for settling
the succession of the crown.' These rights and this
ijijf If e^siQ]^ are decll^-ed in one body, and bound indisso-

s RdL(«Fr,Rev«9.

'464 LECTURES ON J.AW.

\Ay together.'' o « It is curious," adds he, " with what
address the temporary solution of continuity in the line
of succession" — for it was impossible for Mr. Burke not
'to admit that from this line a temporary deviation ^as
made — " it is curious with what address this temporary
solution is kept from the eye ; whilst all that could be
found in this act of necessity, to countenance the idea of
an hereditary succession is brought forward, and fostered,
and i^ade the most of by the legislature." ** The legisla<-
ture," he proceeds, " had plainly in view the act of recog-
nition of the first of Queen Elizabeth, and that of James
the first, both acts strongly declaratory of the inheritable
nature of the crown ; and, in many parts, they follow, with
a nearly literal precision, the words and even the forin,
which is found in these old declaratory statutes."'
" They give the most solemn pledge, taken from the act
of Queen Elizabeth, as solemn a pledge as ever was or
can be given in favour of an hereditary succession.
' The lords spiritual and temporal, and commons, do, in
the name of all the people aforesaid, most humbly and
faithfully submit themselves^ their heirs and posterities
for ever ; and do faithfully promise, that they will stand
to, maintain, and defend their said majesties, and also
the limitation of the crown^ Aerem specified and contained,
to the utmost of their jpower." *

I have mentioned above, that tyranny, at some times,
is uniform in her principles : I have done her full justice:
she is not so at all times. Of truth, liberty, and virtue,
it is the exclusive prerogative to be always consistent.

Let us, for a moment, adopt the statement, which
Mr. Burke has given us. Upon that statement I ask— -

• Rea on Fr. Rev. 13. p Id. 13. ^ Id. 14

LECTUilES ON LAW. 46^

if the humble and faithful submission of the parliament,
in the name of all the people, was sufficient, in the time
of Elizabeth, to bind themselves, their heirs and poste-
rity for ever, to the line of hereditary succession ; how
came it to pass, that, in the time of William and Mary^
the parliament, ,in the name of all the people, was justi-
fied in deviating, even for an instant, from the succession
in that hereditary line ? I ask again — if the humble and,
faithful submission of the parliament, in the name of all
the people, was, in the sixteenth century, insufficient to
bind their heirs and posterity in the seventeenth century;
how comes it to pass that, in the seventeenth century^
the humble and faithful submission of the parliament?
in the name of all the people, could bind their heirs a|^
posterity in the eighteenth century i Such a submission
was either sufficient or.it was not sufficient for that
binding purpose : let the disciples of the doctrine, which
rests on this dilemma, choose between the alternative^*

«
. I have now no hesitation whether we should or should
not subscribe the creed of Mr. Burke : that creed, which
is contradictory to itself, cannot, in every part, be sound
and orthodox.

But, to say the truth, I should not have given myself
the trouble of delivering, nor you, of hearing these anno-
tations uppn it ; unless it had derived the support, which
jt claims, from the Commentaries on the laws of England*
The principles delivered in those Commentaries are
never matters of indifference: I have already naentioned,^
V that when they are not proper objects of imitation, they
furnish excellent materials of odntrast."

' Ante. vol. 1. p. 22.
VOL. li. 3 0

%66. 1ECTUAE8 OK LATf.

Goverfunent, in my humble opinion^ should be formeiib
to secure and to enlarge the exercise of the natural rights
of its members ; and every government, which has not
this in view, as its principal object, is not a government
of the legitimate kind.

Those rights result from the natural state of man ;
from that situation, in which he would find himself^
if no civil government was instituted. In such a sitaa^
tion, a man finds himself, in some respects, unrelated
to others ; in other respects, peculiarly related to some ;
in still other respects, bearing a general relation to all.
From his unrelated state, one class of rights arises : from
' Ui peculiar relations, another class of rights arises:
firom his general relations, a third class of rights arises.
To each class of rights, a class of duties is correspon-
dent; as we had occasion to observe and illustrate,
when we treated concerning the jgenerad principles of
natural law. *

In his unrelated state, man has a natural right to
ills property, to his character, to liberty, and to safety.
From his peculiar relations, as a husband, as a father,
as a son, he is entitled to the enjoyment of peculiar
rights, and obliged to the performance of peculiar duties.
These will be specified in their due coui^e. From
his general relations, he is entitled to other rights,
ftimple in their principle, but, in their operation, fruit^
Ful and extensive. His duties, in their principle and in
their operation, may be characterized in dte same fnaftw
ner as ht3 rights. In these general rdations, his rights
are, to be free from inju't}'', and to reteive the fblffitment
of the engagements, which are made to him ; his dutiea
4ure, to do no injury, axid to fulfil the engiigements^ which

IBCTURES OH LAW*. 46^

he has made. On these two pillars principally apd
^spectively rest the criminal and the civil codes of the
municipal law. These are the pillars of justice*

Of municipal law, the rights and the duties of bene-
volence are sometimes, though rarely, the objects. When
tthey are so, they will receive the. pleasing and the merit-
ed attention.

You now see the distribution, short, and simple, and
plain, which will govern the subsequent part of my
system of lectures. Fiy>m this distribution, short, and
simple, and plain as it is, you see the close and very
interesting connexion between natural and municipal
law. You see, to use again my Lord Bacon'ii l^guage,
how the streams of civil institutions flow from the foun-
tain of justice, ^

I am first to show, that a man has a natural right to
his property, to his character, to liberty, and to safety.

His natural right to his property, you will permit me,
at present, to fiWume as a principle granted. I assume it
for this reason ; because I wish not to anticipate now
what will be introduopd, with much greater propriety
and advantage, when f come to the second great divi-
sion of my lectures, in which I am to treat concerning
things.

To his character, every one has a natural right. A
man^s character may, I think, be described as the juat
result of those opinions, which ought to he formed con-
cemipg his talents, his sentiments, and his conduct...
PpiniQilS, vfQfk thia u upm every otb^ subjeci^ ought

468 L1SCTUBE8 ON X.AW*

to be founded in truth. Justice, as well as truth, requires,
concerning characters, accuracy and impartiality of opi*
Dion.

Under some aspects, diaracter may be considered a«
a species of property ; but, of all, the nearest, the dearest,
and the most interesting. In this light it is viewed by'
the Poet of nature —

The purest treasure mortal times affi:>rd

Is qwtless rt;ptttatioiL

Who steals my purse, steals trash.

Twas mine ; 'tis his; and has been slave to thousands;.

But he who filches from me my good name,

Takes from me that, which not enriches him.

But makes me poor indeed. .

By the exertion of the same talents and virtues, property
and character both are often acquired : by vice and indo^
knee, both are often lost or destroyed*

The love of reputation and the fear of dishonour are,
by the all-gracious Author of our existence, implanted in
our breasts, for purposes the most beneficent and wise.
Let not these principles be deemed the growth of dis-
positions only which are weak ordain ; they flourish most
luxuriantly in minds, the strongest and, let me add, the
most humble. Of the happiness of heaven, a part of
the unerring description is — ^that it is " full of glory.'*

Well may character, then, be considered as one of the
natural rights of man : well may it be classed among those
rights, the enjoyment of which it is the design of good
government and laws to secure and enlarge : well does
it 4<^8ecve their encouragement and protection \ for, in iti

'XECTURES ON tAW. 40)l

turn^ it assists their operations, and supplies their defi-
ciencies. ^'

I remarked, a little while ago, that the rights and the
duties of benevolence are but rarely, though thejr are at
some times, the objects of municipal ]:aw. The remark
may be extended to rights and dutiesof many other kiiids.
To many virtues, legal rewards are not, nor can they be^
assigned : with legal impunity, many vices are^ and must
be, suffered to escape. But before a court of honour
those qualities and sentiments and actions are amenable,
which despise the subtlest process of the tribunals of law,
and elude the keenest vigilance of the ministers of justice.
This court, powerful in its sentences as well as extensive
in its jurisdiction^ decrees to virtue, and to the virtuous
exertion of talents, a crown of fame, pure and splendid;
vice, and idleness, less odious only than vice, it dooms
to wear the badges of infamy, dirty and discoloured.
This court, therefore, in a government of which virtue
is the principle and vice is the bane, ought to receive,
from all its institutions, the just de^ee of favour and
regard.

Honour 's a sacred tie—

The noble mind's distinguishing perfection,

♦

That aids and strengthens virtue, where it meets hei>

The Poet addi

And imitates her actions, where she is not

The inoral descriptions of Mr. Addison are seldom
inaccurate. On this occasion, however, I must declare
that I think him liable to the charge of inaccuracy. The
counterfeit of virtue should not be dignified with the ap-
pellation of hoMur.

4f0 LECTVill&S OH LAW.

It is the seotiment of #ome writers, higUy difttiii-
guiahed too by their liberal and manly principles, tbafi
honour ia peculiar to governments which are monarchi<-
caL ^^ In extreme political lib^rtyy*^ says the M|u*qui8
of Beccaria, ^^ and in absolute despotism, all ide^s 0£
hoMur disappear, or are contbiofded with others. In
the first case, repuitation becomes useless from the dea*
potism of the lawsi ai)d, in the second, the despotbm
of one man, annuiliog all civil existence, rediices the
rest to a pvecarious temporary personality. Honour,
then, is one of the fundamental principles of those mo*-
narchies, which are, a limited despotism ; and in these,
like revolutions in despotick states, it is a mooientary
return to a state of nature and original equality.''*

How prevalent even among enlightened writers, is
^e mistaken opinion,, that government is subversive of
equality and nature ! Is it necessarily so i By no means.
When I speak thus, I speak confidently, because I speal
from principle fortified by fact. Let the constitution of
the United States-*4et that of Pennsylvania be examined
from the beginning to the end. No ri^t is conferred, no
obligation is laid on any, which is not laid or confen^d
on every, citizen of the commonwealth or Union — ^I
think I may defy the world to produce a single e^pcep.
tion to the truth of this remark. Now, as I showed at
large in a former part of my lectures,^ the original
equality of mankind consists in an equality of their di>
ties and rights^

That honour is the principle of monarchical govem-
iftents, is the well known doctrine of die celebrate

s

*«m.<v9. .<lAMimi9LL|).3aiS»BM.

L*CtURE8 on LAW.

47i

Motitesqulea. ' But let ns examine the nature fttid qusfH^
ties of that honour which he describes. It is that kd*
hour which can subsist without honesty ; for he stijf^
expressly," that, in well policied monaWhies, there ari .
very few honest men. It is that honour which foi4>id3l
not adulation, nor cunning, nor craft. ' It is thftt hohottt
which judges of actions not as they are good, but as
they are showy ; not as they are just, but as they are
]^and ; not as they are reasonable, but as tRey are ex-
traordinary. It is, rft one wolrd^, that honour, whieK
fashions the virtues just as it pkases, and extends of
limits our duties by its own whimstcaJ^st^. To thfe
honour, indeed, truth in conversation 'iis -a tie<i^essfcfy
point : but is this for the sake of truth I By no xheani^.

For the possession of this honour-^vicious in its prac^
tice, and, even when right in its practice, vidbus in it^
principle — a republican government will not, I presunae,
contend. But to that honour, whose conttexion with
virtue i6 indissoluble, a republican goveitinient produced
the most unquestionable title. The principle Of vitttre
ii aHowed to be hers : if she possesses Virtue, she also
possesses honour. I admire the fine moral and political
instruction, as well as the elegant architectural taste,
exhibited by the jusdy framed structure, in which the
temple of honour was accessible only through the temple
oif virtue.

Viewed in this light, the honour of character is a
i>roperty, which is, indeed, precious. But let it be re-
4Biembered, that, in this view, it is a property, which
must be purchased. To claim that re|^tation which we

•d|>.L. ii.3.c.'IL

4f9 L|^QT0A&S ON LAV.

do not deserve, is ay absurd, U^ougfa it is not as baie^
faced, as to claim that property which. is not ours. The
pnly' difference is, that, in the former case, we claim
generally that' which belongs to another, while, in the
latter case, we claim that which only does not belong
IQ oursely^. , In both cases, the claim is equally un-
fouiid^d« ...

> . • > . . «

To beslpw on sinother that reputation which be does
not deserve, is equally, profuse, and, in many instances,
is more ui^ust than to* bestow on him that property, to
which he is npt, on the principles either of justice, or
charity, or benevolence, entitled. As it is equally pro-
fuse, it iSf more to be guarded against.' In the latter
case, we bestow what is our own, and, therefore, are in-
clined to be cautious : in the former case, we are apt
to be inconsiderate, because what we bestow is not ours.
Indiscriminate praise is not so odious, but it is as use-
less and it is:as heedless as indiscriminate censure. In
one important {particular they precisely coincide. They
h^ye an equal tendency to destroy and to render ineffica-
cious the great distinction between right and. wrong, ap-
probi^n and disapprobation, virtue and vice.

•* .

If it is unwarrantableto bestow reputation where it is
not due ; what epithet shall we assign to that conduct,
which plucks the wreath of honour from those tem-
ples, around which it has been meritoriously placed ?
Robbery itself flows not from a fountain so rankly poi-
soned as that, which throws out the waters of malicious
^defamation.

The subject of reputation will again come under
your view, when I treat concerning prosecutions for libek

LECTURES ON LAW. 4i7%

and actioni of slander : both of which suppose an un*
justifiable aggression of character. What I have now
said will suffice to point to the general principles, on
which those actions and prosecutions should be defended, ,
supported, and determined* ^

Property must often — reputation must always be pi#-
chased : liberty and life are the gratuitous gifts of hea-
ven.

That man is naturally free, was evinced in a former
lecture : ^ I wiU not reiterate what has been advanced.

I shall certainly be excused from adducing any for-
mal arguments to evince, that life, and whatever is ne-
cessary for the safety of life, are the natural rights of
man. Some things are so difficult ; others are so plain,
that they cannot be proved. It will be more to^ our
purpose to show the anxiety, with which some legal
systems spare and preserve human life ; the levity and
the cruelty which others discover in destroying or sport-
ing with it ; and the inconsistency, with which, in others,
it is, at some times, wantonly sacrificed,, and, at other
times, religiously guarded.

In Sparta, nothing was deemed so precious as the life
of a citizen. And yet in Sparta, if an infant, newly
bqrn, appeared, to those who were appointed to examine
him, ill formed or unhealthy, he was, without any fur-
ther ceremony, thrown into a gulph near mount Tayge-
tus. ^ Fortunate it was for Mr. Pope — ^fortunate it was

^ Vol. 1. p. 309. ^ 4. Anac 161. 162.

VOL. ll« 3 p

474 LSCTUiLSS ON i.AW*

for England, which boasts Mr. Pope-«4faat lie was ml

bom in the neighbourhood of mount Taygetus.

At Athens, X the parent was empowered, when a child
was. bom, to pronounce on its.life or its death. At his feet
it was laid : if he took it in his arms, this was received
aa the gracious signal for its preservation : if he deigned
not a look of compassion on the fruit of his loins, it was
removed and exposed. Over almost all the rest of

Greece,^ this barbarity was permitted or authorized.

<

In China, the practice of exposing new hour childreil
is said to have prevailed immemorially, and to prevail
stiiL As the institutions of that empire are never dianged,
its situation is never improved.

Tacitus records it to the honour of the C^imaiiSy-tfaat,
among them, to kill infants newly bom was deemed la
most flagitious crime. Over them, adds'lie, goodman-
ners have more power, than good laws have over4>ther
nations. This shows, that, in his time, tlieirestraints df
law began to be imposed on this unnatural practiee;
but that its inveteracy had rendered them still itoeiica-'
cious.

Under the Roman commonwealth, no citizen of Rome
was liable to suffer a capital punishment by ^^e sentence
of the law. But at Rome, the son held* his life by the
tenure of his father's pleasure. In the forum, *^ the* senate,
or the camp, the adult son of a Romsoi €itixen.*ei^cqF«d
the publick and private rights oi 2^ person: in his father^
house, he was a mere thing;* confounded, by the lavs,

''S.Aiiac.4. . 714 ibid. > 8. Gibbco. S3.

LECTURES OK. LAW. AffS

■ I

wilh'.tfat ottltle) whom the capricious master migjbt alien-
ate or destroy, without being responsible to any tribunal
on earth.

The gentle Hindcois laudably averse to the shedding
of. blood ; but he carries bis worn out friend or benefac-
tor to. perish, on the banks of the Ganges.

With consistency, beautiful and undeViating, human
life,, from, its commencement to its close, is protected
by. the common la\/* In the contemplation of law, life
begins when the infant is first able to stir in the womb. ^
IBiy the law, life is protected not only from immediate
de^ruetion, but from every degree of actual violence,,
and, insome cases, from every degree of danger.

I

The grades of solicitude, discovered, by the law, on
the sulagect of life, are marked, in the clearest manner,
by the long and regular series of the different degrees
of aggression, which it enumerates and describes —
direatening, assault^ battery, wounding, mayhem, ho-
micide* How those different degrees may be justified,
excused, alleviated, aggravated, redressed, or punished,
wiU. appear bolji in. the criminal and in the civil lode of
our municipal law.

Thus much concerning the natural rights of voxel in
xidiathas been termed his unrelated state. I come now*
to specify and to consider those peculiar relations, by
virtue of which, a man is entided to the enjoyment of
peculiar rights, and obliged to the performance of pecu-
liar duties^

*

a 1. Bl. Com. 139.

476 LECTURES ON LAW.

I begin with marriage, which forms tEe near relatioa
between husband and wife.

Whether we consult the soundest deductions of reason.
Or resort to the best information conveyed to us by his-
tory, or listen to the undoubted intelligence communica-
ted in holy writ, we shall find, that to the institution of
marriage the true origin of societj- must be traced. By
that institution the felicity of Paradise was consummated;
and since the unhappy expulsion from thence, to that in-
stitution, more than to any other, have mankind been in-
debted for the share of peace and harmony which has been
cfislributed among them* ^^ Prima societas in ipso con-
jugio est," says Cicero in his book of offices ; ^ a work
which does honour to the human understanding and the
hums^n heart.

The most ancient traditions of every country ascribe
to its first legislators and founders, the regulations .con-
cerning the union between the sexes. The honour of
instituting marriage among the Chinese, is assigned to
their first sovereign, *^ Fo^hi. In order to render. this
gi-eat foundation of society respectable, he adjusted, as
we are told,^ the ceremonies, with which the contracts
of marriage were accompanied.

Among the Egyptians, the law of marriage is said to
have been established by Menes, ^ whose name is trsms-
mitted to us as that of their first king. The history of
Abraham ^ affords a striking instance of the profound

• *»L.l.c. IT. c 1. Gog. Or. L. 22. v d 3, Gog. Or. L. 313.
« 1. Gog. Or. L. 22. ^ Gen. xii. 19.

LECTURES OH LAW. 4ttT

respect, which in his day was paid, in Egypt, to the con-
jugal union.

Cecrops has been already mentioned as the first great
legislator of the Athenians, and as borrowing his insti-
tutions from thbse of the Egyptians. Accordingly we
are informed, that he established, at Athens, the laws
and ceremonies of marriage, in the same manner as they
were observed and practised in Egypt, Polygamy was
not permitted, s These regulations are described as the
sources of virtues and enjoyments. They evinced the
advantages of decency, the attractions of modesty, the
happiness of loving, and the necessity of constancy in
love. ^

The founder of Rome made, concerning marriages, a
law, which, on many accounts, will deserve our particular
attention. It was expressed in these words : " let every
wife, who by the holy laws of marriage falls into the
power of a husband, enter with him into a community
of goods and sacrifices.".

As marriage has been instituted by the first, it has
always been encouraged by the wisest legislators. By
the law of Moses, ^ a man, during one year after his
marriage, was exempted from publick burthens, and from
going to war. A regulation nearly similar, as we are
' told, was established by the Inca^ of Peru. ' The ju9
trium liberorum^ introduced by the prudent policy of
Augustus, was a permanent inducement to matrimony
at Rome. „

^ ■

g 2. Gog. Or. L. 19. k 1. Anac. 7. « 1. RoL R, H. 32.
1; Deuter. xxiy. 5. 1 1. Gog. Or. L. 23. <" Mont. Sp. L. b. 23. c. 21.

4ffl^ ](<«OTJU&BS OH LAW.

Legislators hare, with great profirioty, , cartied their
views still farther ; they have provided, as far as muni-
cipal laws can provide, against the violation of rights,
indispensably essential to the puri^ andbanaoAy of^e
matrimonial uni(m« Treachery, upon any Qccasion, is
sufficient: to stain a page in the annak-of lif&; , but p^rfidy^
against the solemn engagements o{% mania^ obliteraleSf
the impres«i<Mi of happiness from ev«ry subsn^uent pait^
of the conjugal hi3tory.. Upon this subject^ however, a»
interesting to the finest sentiments and emotions of tbet
heart, every thing, that might be wished,, cannot,^ we
fear, be expected from the operation of human laws*
Much must, be left to the influence of that legitimate
honour, which we have described as the inseparable^
friend and companion of virtue. From the bastard
honour, wiiich we likewise described, it would be ridi-
culous, in this case, to hope for any assistance* I|i;
this case, as in many others,. that honour glories in itSt
ahame.

Concerning the ancient Germans, Tacitus, in his short
but masterly account of their manners,^ informs us,
that amo4g them the laws- of mamage were rigidly
observed ; and that no. part of their conduct wasi more:
exemplary.

We have seen the first institution of marriage
among the Athenians and the Romans : a. concise view
of its history will be instructive and interesting.

In the heroick ages of Greece, we are told, ^ the rightsr
of beauty and feminine weakness were highly respected
and tenderly ol>serveS< The simplicity of diose ages

■Cia. •LGffl.53.56.

was equalljr: remote fvom the cruel ^^r^omy of •sa'vtig^s,
which condemns the fair sex to servitude, and the sordid
selfishness of luxury, which considers them 'solely 'a&
instruments of pleasure. Hence those afiectin^ '^(ceifeft
«o exquisitely described by Homer, vrhich, in' the inter*,
views' of Hector and Andromache, exhibit the 'mo^t
striking image ^of nuptial felicity and love. 'But thfs
beautiful picture of ancient manners was soon miserably
defaced ; and, in the degenerate periods of Greece, the
fair sex were as much neglected and desrpised, as they
had been loved and admired in the heroick mges.

In Aose degraded times, of which I am noW'bbligett
to speak, no pains were employed to render the*€rrecian
femfales agreeable members of society, in any one part
tif their lives. Education was either entirely withheltl
fr6m them ; or it was directed to such objects as were
4itted to contract and debase, instead of elevating anil
enlarging the mind. When they were grown up, they
were thrown away in marriage, without being consulted
in the choice ; and by entering into this new state, they
found the severe guardianship of a father succeeded by
the absolute dominion of a husband. At this period,
even the laws of Athens countenanced this unworthy
tenour of conduct : to secure the fortune of the' husband
was deemed an object of greater importance, than to
protect the person and honour of the wife, from the out-
rage so peculiarly dreaded by female virtue. ^

Let us now turn our attention to Rome. You recol-
lect, that, by a law of Romulus, ** the wife fell into the
power of the husband." The law, which, on the whole,

p GUL Lys. and Imc. Int c.

480 LECTURES OK lAW.

was veiy susceptible of a construction mild and generous,
received from this part of it an interpretation most
uni^arrant^le and severe. By this interpretation, colour-
ed with the unnatural fiction, that, on a solemn marriag:e,
the wife was adopted by the husband, he acquired over
her all the tremendous plenitude of Roman paternal power.
This extreme, as is usual, soon produced its opposite;
and female servitude was exchanged for fepiale licen-
tiousness. The solemnities of the ancient nuptials were
declined) in order to avoid the odious consequences
superinduced upon them by the construction and fiction
of law ; and the parties, without losing, on either side,
their independence or their name, subscribed definite
and stipulated articles of a marriage contract. Their
cohabitation, and the appearances of a common interest
which they exhibited, were received, without investi-
gation, as sufficient evidence of a regular and solemn
marriage. Hence that detestable train of conjugal ^
vice, infidelity, rage, rancour, and revenge, with which
so many volumes of the Roman story are crowded and
disgraced.

By the precepts of Christianity, and the practice
of the christians, the dignity of marriage was, however^
restored.

«

In the eye of the common law, marriage appears ia
no other light than that of a civil contract : and to this
contract the agreement of the parties, the essence of every
rational contract, is indispensably required. If, there-
fore, either of the parties is incapable of agreeing, is
unwilling to agree, or has not, in fact, as well as in
ability and will, concluded the agreement ; the marriage

* LECTURES ON LAW. 481

cannot be established by the principles of the common
lair.

Disability to contract marriage may arise from imma-
ture age. A man, as we have seen before,^ may consent
to marriage at fourteen ; a woman, at twelve years of
age. If, before those respective ages, a marriage take
place, either party may, at the age of consent, but not
before or after that age, disagree, declare the marriage
void, and marry again : but if, at the age of consent,
they agree to continue together, there is no occasion for
another marriage between them ; that which has taken
place being deemed a marriage, though only an inchoate
and imperfect one. If, at the time of the inchoate mar*
riage, one of the parties is, and the other is not of the
age of consent^ when the last arrives at that age, the first
as well as the last may disagree ; for in a contract of
marriage, both or neither must be bound. ^

Disability to contract marriage may arise from the

want of reason. Consent, as has been already obsen^^ed,

' is essential to this, as to every other contract ; but those

who enjoy not a competent share of reason, are incapable

of giving consent. '

By ;a law of Pennsylvania, certain degrees of consan-
guinity and affinity, specified in a table subjoined to the
law, are disabilities to contract matrimony : and all
marriages within those degrees are declared to be
void. I refer you to the table specifying the degrees. ^

« Ante. p. 14a **■ 1. Ins. 79. a: b.

• 1. Bl. Com. 438. t L Laws Peno. 46.

VOL. II. 8 <t *

462 LECTURES ON LAW*

One marriage undissolved, forms^ a (Usability to con-
tract another. In such a case the second marriage is
^oid as well as criminal. ^

^^ Consensus non concubitus facit matrimonium," is
a maxim of our law ; marriage, therefore, must be the
effect of willingness as well as of capacity to contract
it.T

When to the ability and will to contract, an actual
contract is added ; then the marriage is complete.

Before the time of Pope Innocent the third, there was
no solemnization of marriage in the church; but the
man came to the house where the woman inhabited,
and led her home to his own house ; which waa all the
ceremony then used. ^

By an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, all mar-
riages, not forbidden by the law of God, shall be encou-
raged* ' In the construction of legacies, it is a gen^nd
rule, that all conditions are unlawful, which would operate
against the liberty of marriage* '

It will be proper, in the next place, to consider the
consequences of marriage.

The most important consequence of onarriage is, that
the husband and the wife become^ in law» only one per^.
son : the legal existence of the wife is consolidated into
that of the husband. Upon this principle of union, almost

« 1. BL Com. 436. ^ l.Iil8.33. "* a.Bac 575.

s 1. Laws.Peiai. 36. ^r Swin.S66.

LECTURES ON LAW* - 48S

iH the other legal consequences of marriage depend. This
principle, sublime and refined, deserves to be viewed and
examined on every side. Among human institutions, it
seems to be peculiar to the common law. Peculiar as it
is, however, among human institutions, it seems not un-
congenial to the spirit of a declaration from a source
higher than human—" They twain shall be one flesh.*^

Even of the common law, this was not always a prin«
ciple. We are told by the learned Seldeji, that the Saxon
wives were never one with their husbands j nor were they,
as wives, under the view of the frank-pledge : a Saxon
wife was obliged to give pledge by her friends, that she
would do no wrong. She passed as an appurtenant to her
husband, rather than one in unity with him: and her
estate was rather appurtenant to her than to him : for if
she failed in her good carriage to her husband, she was
to make him amends out of her own estate ; and if that
was insufficient, then her pledges were to make satisfac-
tion for her.* This interposition of friends between hus-
band and wife, in matters respecting either their conduct
or their claims, seems alien to the delicacy and nearness
of the matrimonial connexion. On very pressing emergen-
cies, indeed, it is necessary that the law should interfere,
and on such emergencies we shall see that it does inter-
fere ; but the general presumption and the universal wish
ought to be, that, between husband and wife, there subsist
or may subsist no difference of will or of interest. Such
accordingly, during many centuries past, has been the
language of the^aw. Bracton, in the reign of Henry the
third, informs us, that ^^ husband and wife are as one per-
son, because they are one flesh and blood.*^ * Littleton,

■ Bac. on Gov. 65. , 1. Ins. 187 b.

484 LECTURES ON LAV.

whose, sayings are of such high authority, tells us repeat-
edly, ^^ that the husband and the wife are but one person
in the law." ^

In pursuance of this principle, a crime, except treason
and murder, ^ committed by the husband and wife, shall
be charged against him sQlely ; because the law will sup-
pose that she acted under his influence or coercion. In
pursuance of the same principle, ahusbahd and wife cannot
be witnesses for or against one another : if they were per-
mitted to give testimony for one another, one maxim of
the law would be violated — No one can be a witness in
his own cause ; if they were permitted to give testimony
against one another, another maxim of the law would be
' violated — No one is obliged to accuse himself.

But, as has before been intimated, whenever urgent
emergencies arise ; whenever any outrage is threatened
or committed against the peace or safety of society, as
well as against the refined rules of the conjugal upion ;
the law will interpose its authority, and, though it will not
order, because it cannot enforce its orders for observing
the latter, it will order, because it can enforce its orders
for preserving the former.

The refined delicacy of the ma^im — that husband and

wife are considered as one person by our law — appears

now in a beautiful and striking point of view. The rights,

the enjoyments^ the obligations, and the infelicities of the

matrimonial state are so far removed from her protection

or redress, that she will not appear as an arbi^ress ; but,

like ^ candid and benevolent neighbour, will presume,

for a^ wishes, all to be well.

%
^ 8. 168. 291. c 1. BL Com. 444.

X.ECTI7&E8 ON LAW* 4M

To the other rights and to the other duties of a mar-
riage life, we must extend the observations which we
have already applied \o one of them. Reliance must be
placed on^that honour, which is the inseparable friend and
companion of virtue.

I have spoken concerning those consequences of mar-
riage, which relate to d»e persons of the husband and
wife : the consequences which relate to their property,
will be fully considered under the secpnd great division
of my system ; you observe, that I carefully avoid the
blending of the two divisions.

By that event which closes the scene of all sublunary
enjoyments, marriage is dissolved : .it may be dissolved
sooner — ^by divorce.

To the law of England, two kinds of divorce are
known — a divorce from the bed and the table— and a
divorce from the chains — the metaphor is proper on this
occasion — a divorce from the chains of matrimony. The
propriety of the first kind, I am, I confess, at a loss to
explain : that of the second kind is frequently obvious.
When, as we have seen, the impression of happiness must
be obliterated from every succeeding part of the conjugal
history, why should any more blackened pages be added
to the inauspicious volume? But of causes which are
slight or trivial, a divorce should, by no means, be per-
mitted to be the effect. When divorces can be summoned
to the aid of levity, of vanity, or of avarice, a state of
marriage becomes frequently a state of war or stratagem ;
still more frequently, a state of premeditated and active
preparation for successful stratagems and war. Such was
the case in ancient Rome. " Passion, interest, or caprice,"

V

4M iscTint£8 otr law.

says the Historian of her falling state, ''suggested dailf
motives for the dissolution of marriage ; a' word, a sign,
a message, the mandate of a freeman declared the separa*
tion ; the most ten<)er of human connexions was degraded
lo a transient society of profit or pleasure."^

— Sic fiiint octo mariti
Qinnqiie per aotatnaiK.

JttV^ sat. Vh .30.

Kon consolomniimeTO, sed maritorum annos suos computant

Ben, de, Benef. III. 16-

Both these remarks are levelled particularly at the female
sex : buft who drew the picture, in which the lion was
injuriously represented ?

Cicero, after having said, as we have seen, "prima
societas in ipso conjugio est,** adds, ** proximain liberis.*''
I consider, in the next place, the relation of parent and
thild.

»
The transition is, indeed, a natural one. The senti-
ments of parental affection are generally warm and tender,
in proportion to those of conjugal love. Ttie sentiments
of filial duty are generally sincere and respectful, in pro*
portion to those of parental affection.

It is the duty of parents to maintain their children
decently, and according to their circumstances ; to protect
them according to the dictates of prudence ; and to edu-
cate them according to the suggestions of a judicious and
zealous regard for their usefulness, their respectability,
and their happiness.

d ^ Gibbon. 63

t£CTU&«S ON ]»AW. 4S7

The formidable power of a Roman father i» unknown
to the common law. But it vests in the parent such au*
thori^y as is conducive to the advantage of the child.
When it is necessary-— and a real necessity exists much,
more rs^rely than is often imagined — ^a moderate chasten*
ing may be administered ;, but every milder means should
be previously used. Part of his authority he may delegate
to the person intrusted with his child's education :* that
person acts then in the place, and he ought td act with
the disposition, of a parent. The legal power of a father
ceases, when the child attains the age of twenty one years.

But,-— for we now turn to the duties of children«-*as
obedience and subjection to their parents are due from
them during their minority; honour and reverence are
naturally and justly expected from them ever afterwards.
If it become necessary, the child should, according to his
circumstances, maintain the parent : 'tis but a natural and
grateful return for the maintenance, which the parent has
given to the child.

The decent reserve which the common law has shown,
with regard to the relation between parent and child,
should be admired, and may be accounted for on the
same principles, which were observed under the relation
of husband and wife. The civil law interposed in the
nice feelings and tender transactions of both relations,
with a rude and indelicate management. In that law,> we
find an enumeration of fourteen different reasons, for
which a father may disinherit his child. Would it not
have been much more natural, to have l^ft, as the common
' )aw has leftn this subject to the decision of that judge*
which holds its tribunal in every parent's breast i

• l.BLCom.453.

488 LECTtJREfl Olf LAW*

But, here as oa former occasions, I refer the question!
of property — and there are very important ones — arising
from this relatiqn, to the full discussion, which will be
^ven under the second division of my system*

A bastard is one who is born out of lawful marriage.
By law, he is considered guasi nulliusfitius. But surely
it is the natural duty of his parents to maintain, to pro-
tect, and to educate him.

The rules which govern the relation between a father
and his child, govern, but in an infe/iour degree, and for
a shorter time, that relation, which is substituted in the
place of the other, between a guardian and his ward. On
this subject, therefore, it will not be necessary to descend
into particulars.

I come now to e^aniine the relation between a master
and his servants.

Slavery, or an aBsolute and unlimited power, in the
master, over the life and fortune of the slave, is unautho-
ri7:ed by the common law. Indeed, it is repugp[iant to the
principles of natural law, that such a state should subsist
in any social system* The reasons, which we sometimes
^ee assigned for the origin and the continuance of slavery,
appear, when examined to the bottom, to be built upon
a false foundation. In the enjoyment of their persons and
of their property, the conimon law protects all. With
regard, however, to any right, which one man may have
acquired to the personal service of another, the case is
very different. This right the common law will support*

f t BL Com. 42S. 42ik

lECTUIlES ON tAW.
Hc^, to whose service this right is acquired, is only in
the same state of subjection, to which every servant and
apprentice is obliged, and finds it his interest, to submit.

The contract between a master and a servant arises
upoii the hiring* If a servant is retained generally,
without expressing any limited time, the law will con-

Jstrue it to be for a year: ^ the reasonable foundation of
this rule is, that, through the revolutions of the seasons,
equality shall be preserved in the contract; that the
master shall not have it in his power to dismiss the

' servant when there is little work to b^ done ; nor the
servant have it in his power to depart when there is
much. The contract, however, may be made for any
term longer or shorter than a year«|^ If, during the
term of the contract, the servant become sick, this is a
condition incident tp humanity. In his sickness, the
master is bound to take^care of him, and provide for
him ; nor can a deducticm of wages be made tor the
timei during which he is detained from service. ^

{f a servant marry, the nvarriage dissolves not the
contract to serve :,^ if^ without any reasonable xause, he
depart from his service, Mrithin the term, for which he
is detained ; he tsm recover no wages. ^ « A contract for
.service is, on. both sides, personal, and is discharged by
the death of either of the parties.* °^ This is the rule at
th& common law«

A master, we are told, may justify an assault in
defence of bis servant ; and a servant, in defence of his

s 1. Inu. 42. b. ^ 1. Bl. Com. 425. ^ 2. Burr. 948.

k F. N. B. 168. . 1 Wood. Ins. 51. « Str. 1267. Wood. las. 51.

VOL* !!• 3 It

I .

490 LECTURES OK LAW.

/

master ; the former, because he has an i^erest in the
service of the latter ; the latter, because the defence of
the former is considered as part of the consideration, for
which ^ages are stipulated and received* ^ The law is
unquestionaUy so as is here stated : the reasons assigned
for it> I am inclined to believe, are founded on principles
much too narrow. The defence of cme's own person is
a part of the law of self preservi^tion. The defence of
the person of another is, I think, a part of the law df hu-
manity. This point) however, which is of a very gene-
ral importance to the peace and security of society, will
merit an investigation in another place.

«

The common law, retaining the refined ddicacy wlack
we have observed ofteiier than once, will not, without
strong necessity, inspect or interpose in the interiour
government of a family* That sufficient authority, how-
ever, may exist to preserve order in the dosiiestick de-
partment— a department of mighty moment to human
happiness — the law invests the master with a power to
correct, but moderately, his servant or apprentice, for
negligence or for other misbehaviour. We have seen
that *^ sine imperio^ nulla domus stare potest.''*' . Be-
sides ; in the regulation which the law has drawn con-
cerning an atrocious outragfe, in which she found it ne-
cessary to interpose, she has with a pencil exquisitely
fine, but whose strokes can be traced by a discerning
eye, marked a line of general direction for the relative
rights and duties of a master and servant. From the
latter to the fbimer, she expressly requires a species,
though an inferiour species, of allegiance: firons the
former to the latter, she, by a necessary consequence,

« l.BlCom.439. • Cicdel^ia

tfiCTUR£$ ON LAW. 491

strongljr inculcates a species, though an Jnferiour spe-
cifes, of protection. These remarks will receive illus-
tration, when the crime of petty treason shall come un-
der our view.

Apprentices are a species of servants. They are usu-
all5r bound for a term of years, to serve and to be in-
structed by their masters in their profession or trade.

Persons under the age of twenty one years cannot, by
the common law, bind themselves apprentices, in such a
manner as to become liable to an action fot departing,
*from their service, or for other breaches of their inden-
tures. For this reason, it is necessary that the parent,
guardian, or some friend of the apprentipfe be bound for
the faithful discharge of his duty. ^ But it is not every
minor, who has such connexions, willing to be bound
'for him.

By the custom of London, an infant, unmarried and
above the age of fourteen years, may bind himself appren-
tice to a freeman of London ; and the covenants in the
indenture of apprenticeship shall be as valid, as if the
apprentice had been of full age.** The spirit of this
custom has been adopted and enlarged by the legislature
of Pennsylvania, A minor, bound an apprentice with
the assent of the parent, the guardian, or the next
friend, or with the assent of the overseers of the poor,
and approbation of any two justices, is bound as fully
as if of age at the time of making the indentures. But
ati apprenticeship under this vei'y excellent law must
expire, in the iiase of a male, at twenty otfe, in the cas«
of a female, at eighteen years of age. ^

P S. Bac. 547. ^ Id. 34r. ' 1. Laws Peim. 540* s. 1.

in

LECTI7RE8 ON LAW*.

To qualify one for the skilful and-successfdl exercise
of a trade or profession, an apprenticeship is certainty
useful ; but, by the common law, it is not necessar)% It
was resolved, as we are informed in one of the reports
of tmy Lord Coke, that, at the common law, no man can
be prohibited from exercising his industry in any bwful
occupation ; for the law hates idleness, the nH>ther of all
evil, and especially in 3roung men, who, in their youA,
^ich is their seed-time, ought to learn lawful trades
and sciences, which are profitable to the commonwealth,
and of which they themselves may reap the harvest in
their future years. Besides; the common law abhors
all monopolies, which forbid any from working in any
lawful trade. If he who undertakes to work is unskilful,
his ignorance is his sufficient punishment ; for ^^ quiUbet
quaerit in qualibet arte peritos;" and if^ in performing
his work, he injures his employer, the law has provided
an action to recover damages {(kr the injury done.^ To
every monopoly, we are told by the same book in ano-
ther place, ^ there are three inseparable incidents against
the commonwealth. 1. The price of the commodity is
raised. 2. The quality of the commodity is debased* 3.
Those who formerly maintained thems^es and their
families by the same profession or trade,are impoverished,
and reduced to a state of beggary and idleness.

Besides apprentices, and those to whom the name of
servant is appropriated in the language of common
life, the relation of servant is extended, by the lan-
guage and by many of the rules of the law, to others
in a superiour ministerial capacity — to bailiffs, to stew-
ards, to agents, to factors, to attornies, and to the mat-

^ It Rep. 5S. b. 54.

t Id.a«.K

LECTURES ON LAW. . ' 4M

terff of vessels considered in. their relation to the owners
of them* * ■ ,

Of many acts of the servant, the master is entitled
to receive the , ad vantage : of many others, he is obliged
to suffer or to compensate fbi; the injury* In each series
of cases— it would be, hore, improper to attempt an
emsmeration of particulars — In each^ series of cases,
the principle b the same. Whatever is don^ by the
servant, in the usual course of his business, is presumed,
and fairly presumed, to be done by the command, or
th« authority, tacit or express, oC the master ; whatever
is done by the master's command, is considered, and
justly x^onsidered, as done by the master in person :
" Qui facit per alium, facit per se."

Thus much concerning the relation between tnaster
* and servant ; and thus much concerning the component
parts of that important and respectable, though small
and sometimes neglected establishment, which is deno-
minated a family. " Id autem est" — says Cicero,^ in
the fine and just passage already cited oftener than once
— ^^^ id autem est principium urbis, et quasi seminarium
reipublic^e.'' It is the principle of the commifhity ; it
is that seminary, on which the commonwealth, for its
manners as well as for its numbers, must ultimately de-
pend. As its establishment is th^ source, so its hap-
piness IS the end, of every institution of governmept,
which is wise and good.

In the introduction to my lectures'^ I told my hear-
ers,, that ^^ publick law and pubtick government were

« 5.Bac544. v Dg OEL 1, ^. 17. ^ Vol. 1. p. 35,

494 OLfiCTURES ON I^AW.

Jiot made for themselves »" 6ut that ^* they were made
for sometKing better j" that ^' I meant society j" "that
** I meant particularly domestick society." Perhaps, it
was then thought^ by some, that all thife waaintrodciced
merely for the sake of an eneomium— but, by the way,
an encomium severely just— ^with which it was accotnpa-
nied. In tlie regular course of my system, the sentiment
has now undergone a scruttfiizing analysis in the most
minute detail. I caH appeal to such, if any such, who
thought otherwise then*-*! can appeal to all, who have
formed their opinion now, whether the sentiment, in all
its parts, and in all its objects too, is not founded in sound
politicks and genuine philosophy.

In digesting a system of English law a little more than
a century ago, it would have been necessary to notice
and explain another domestick relation— -not, indeed,
founded in nature^-^that of lord and villaui. Of the
feudal city, however, we can still recollect the exteriour
battlements and towers, cumbrous, but disproportioned
and insecure » and the interiour buildings and halls, spa-
cious, but comfordess and inconvenient. In ruins it now
lies. With sentiments very different from those of re-
gret, we can exclaim over iu^uit eenxitus.^

I have now done with considering the peculiar rela-
tions of man in a state of society, independent of civil
government. But in that state, as he bears peculiar re-
lations to some, so he bears a general relation to all.
From that general relation, rights and duties result. His
rights are, to receive the fulfilment of the engagements
which m made to him, and * to ]be free fit»m injury to

^Foitltieni.

LECTURES ON hAW* 495

his peculiar relations, to his property, to hid character,
to his liberty, to his personv His duties are, to fulfil
the engagements, which he has made ; and to do
no injury, in the same extensive meaning, in which
he would wish and has a right to suffer none* /

In a former lecture,^ when I delineatied at large the
principles smd the character of the social man, these rights
and duties received their illustration^ and we^ sfaowa
to belaid deeply in the human frame. To your recoU
lection of what was then^said^ I beg leave to refer you*
These rights and duties are indeed^ as has faeeaotiserved,
great pillars on which chiefly rest the criminal and the
civil codes of the municipal law. It would surely be
preposterous to undermine their foundation, with a view
to give strength or stability to what they support—to
unfix what rests on the immovable basis of nature, and
to place it on the tottering institutions of man*

I here. close my exan^ination into those natural rights,
whichy in my bumble opinion, it is the business of civil
government to protect, and not to subvert, and the ex*
ercise of which it is the duty of civil government to en«
large, and not to restrain^ I go farther ; and now pto^
ceed to show, that in peculiar instances, in which those
rights can receive neither protection nor reparation from
civil government, they are, notwithstanding its institu-
tion, entitled still to that defence, and to those methods
of recovery, which ares justified and demanded in a state
of nature.

y Vol 1, p. 292* 294.

496 LSCTURES OK LAIT,

The defence of one's self, justly called the primary
law of nature,' is not, nor can it be abrogated by any
regulation of municipal law. * This principle of defence
is not confined merely to the person ; it extends to the
liberty and the property of a man : it is not confined
merely to his own person ; it extends to the persons of
all those, to whom he bears a pe;culiar relation— -of his
wife, of his parent, of his child, of his master, of his
aenrant : ^ nay, it exte.nds to the person of every one,
who is in danger ; ^ perhaps^ to the liberty of every one,
whos^ liberty is unjustly and forcibly attacked. It be-
comes humanity as well as justice.

The particular occasions on which the defensive prin-
ciple may be exercised, and the degrees to which the
exercise of it may be carried, will appear in subsequent
parts of niy lectures ; for instead of being disavowed,
it is expressly vecognised by oiv municipal instituticHis.

As a man is justified in defending, so he is justified
in retaking, his property, or his peculiar relations, when
from him they are unjustly taken and detained. When
and how this recaption may be made, will also appear
in the proper places. For this redress^ dictated by. na-
ture, is also recognised by municipal law.

* Est igitur, jadices, ha&c non scripta, sed nata lex ; quam nm
dedicimus, accepimus, legimus ; verum ex natura ipsa arripuimus,
hausimus, expressimus ; ad quam non docti, sed facti, non institu-
tl, sed imbuti sumus ; ut si vita nostra in aliquas insidias, si in vimy
si in tela apt latronum aut inimicorum incidlsset, onmis honesta ra-
tio esset expediendse salutis : silent enim leges inter arma ; nee se
expectari jubent, cum ei qui expectare velit. ante iajusta pcena
luenda sit, quam justa repetenda. Cic pro MiL «

» 3. BL Com. 4. ^ Id. a. c 1. Haw. ISL

LECTURES ON LAW.

49r

Under the same description, the right of abating or
removing nuisances may, in many instances, be classed.

This long investigation concerning natural rights and
natural remedies, I conclude by answering the question^
with which I introduced it : man. does not exist for the
sake of government, but government is instituted for
the sake of man. The course of it has naturally led me
to consider a number of interesting subjects, in a view
somewhat different, perhaps, from that, in which we see
them considered in some of our law books; but in a
view perfectly consonant to the soundest rules an4 prin-
ciples of our l^w*

THE END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

VOL, II.

3 s


===== James Wilson - The Works of the Honourable James Wilson (ed. Bird Wilson, 3 vols, PD) (vol. 3) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/workshonourable01wilsgoog/workshonourable01wilsgoog_djvu.txt

Google

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project

to make the world's books discoverable online.

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover.

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the

publisher to a library and finally to you.

Usage guidelines

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.
We also ask that you:

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for
personal, non-commercial purposes.

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe.

About Google Book Search

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web

at |http: //books .google .com/I

Prof. OiarlAs E. i,daa«|
f

Prof. Oharlfls K. Ad«B«l

♦ r-* .*.--

/ /^

:k>' - y^^^'"

WORKS ,7^.7

THE HONOURABLE

JAMES WILSON, L. L. D.

LATE ONE OF THE ASSOCIATE JUSTICES OF THE SUPBEHX

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, AND PROFESSOR OF LAW

IN THE COLLEGE OF PHILADELPHIA.

PUBLISHED UNDER THE DIRECTION

BIRD WILSON, ESQUIRE.

K<::

• MNEI lEHVl *UMU3, Vt L

PHILADEI-PHIA :

AT THE LOIt£NZO PRESS, PRINTED Foit BRONSOK AND CBAVNC

ICT OF PENNSYLVANIA :— TO WIT.

T REMEMBERED, That on the fifth day of July,
the twenty ninth year of the independence of tlio
of America, Bird Wilson, Esquire, of the said
iepcisited in this office the title of a book, the right
lims as proprietor, in the words following, to wit:
E WorlK of the Honourable lamea Wilson, L. L. D.
ie of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Conrt of
nited States, and Professor of Law in the CoIIcec of
ielphia. Published under the direction of Bird Wilson,
re. Lex fundamentum est libertatis, qua fruimur.
m omnes servi sumus, ut liberi esse possimus," —
Cic.
y to the act of the Congress of the United States eo-
t for the encouragement of learning by securing the
1, charta, and books to the authors and proprietors of
ing the times therein mentioned ;" and also to the act
act supplementary to an act entitled " An act for the
t of learning, by securing the copies of maps, charts,
le authors and proprietors of such copies during the
nentioned," and extending the benefits thereof to the
ling, engraring, and etching historii.&l and other

D. CALDWELL, Clerk of the
* District of Peonaylvania.

r

CONTENTS

OF THE THIRD VOLUME

LECTURES ON LAW.

PART III.

CHAPTER I. PAO*

Of the nature of crimes ; and the necessity and proportion

of punishments. S

CHAPTER n.
Of crimes against the right of individuals to their property. 49

CHAPTER m
Of crimes against the right of individuals to liberty, and to

reputation. 67"

CHAPTER IV.
Of crimes against the right of individuals to personal safety. 77

CHAPTER V.

Of crimes immediately against the community. 95

CHAPTER VI.
Of crimes affecting severd of the natural rights of indivi-
duals. 109

CHAPTER VIL
Of crimes against the rights of individuals acquired under

civil government. 113

CHAPTER Vin.

Of the persons capable of committing crimes ; and of the
different degrees of guilt incurred in the commission of
tiie same crime. 133

:s OF THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER IX.

used by the law to prevent oSenc*s.

CHAPTER X.

i prescribed by the Uw, for apprehenrl-
ying, and punishing offenders.

: nature and extent of the legislative
British parliament Published in the

""-ii delivered in the conventton for the province of Penn-
'Ivania, held at PMladelphio, in lanuarrj i77S. 2'

1 delivered on a6th November, 1787, in the conventiim
f Pennsylvania, assembled to take into consideraiion the
institution framed, by the federal convention, for the .
Fnited States. %

in delivered oh 4th July, 1788, at the procesaioii formed
: Philadelphia to celebrate the adoption of the conati-
ition of the United Slates. 2!

1 on choosing the members of the senate by electors ;
elivered, on 31st December, 1T89, in the convention of
ennsylvania, assen^led for the purpose of reviewing,
tering, and amending the constitution of the state. 3:

1 delivered, on 19th Jansary, 1790, in the convention
f Pennsylvania, assembled for thepurpose of reviewing,
tering, and amending the constitution of the state ;
1 a motion that " no member of congress from this state,
JT any person holding or exercising any office of trust
■profitunderthe United States, shall, at the same time,
jld and exercise any ofiice whatever in this state." 3;

rge delivered to the grand jury in the circuit court of the
'nited States for the district of Virginia, in May 1791. 3J

lerations on the Bank of North America. Published b
le year 1785. 3!

LECTURES ON LAW,

DELIVERED IN THE

COLLEGE OF PHILADELPHIA,

IN THE TEARS ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY,
AND ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY ONE.

YOl.. III. B

V

PART III.

CHAPTER I.

eT THE NATURE OF CRIMES ; AND THE NECESSITY AND
PROPORTION OF PUNISHMENTS.

AXlTHERTO, we have considered the rights of men,
of citizens, of publick officers, and of publick bodies : we
must now turn our eyes to objects less pleasing — ^the
violations of those rights must be brought under our view.
Man is sometimes unjust : sometimes he is even crimi-
aal : injuries and crimes must, therefore, find their place
in eveiy legal system, calculated for man. One conso^
latory reflection, however, will greatly support us in our
progress through this uninviting part of our journey : we
shall be richly compensated when we reach its conclusion.
The end of criminal jurisprudence is the prevention of
crimes.

4 LECTURES ON LAW.

■ ^^

What is an injury I — ^What is a crime ?-— What is re-
paration ?— What is punishment ? — These are questions^
which ought to be considered in a separate, and also in a
connected, point of view. At some times, they have been
too much blended. In some instances, the injury and the
reparation have been lost in the crime and the punishment.
In other instances, the crime and the punishment have,
with equal impropriety, been sunk in the reparation and
injury. At other times, they have been kept too much
apatt. The crime has been considered as altogether un-
connected with the injury, and the punishment as alto-
gether unconnected with reparation. In other instances,
the reparation only has been regarded, and no attention
has been given to the punishment : the • injury only has
been calculated ; but no computation has been made con-
cerning the crime.

An injury is a loss arising to an individual, from the
violation or infringement of his right.

A reparation is that, which compensates for the loss
sustained by an injury.

A crime is an injury, so atrocious in its nature, or so
dangerous in its example, that, besides the loss which it
occasions to the individual who suffers by it, it affects, in
its immediate operation or in its consequences, the inte-
rest, the peace, the dignity, or the security of thepublick*
Offences and misdemeanors denote inferiour crimes*

A punishment is the infliction of that evil, superadded
to the reparation, which the crime, superadded to the
injury, renders necessary, for the purposes of a wise and*
good administration of government.

LECTURES ON LAW* 5

• Concerning an injury and a reparation, and the mea-
sures by which each of them ought fo be estimated, it
will not be necessary to say much ; because, with regard
to them, much confusion or mistake has not been intro*
duoed into the theory or practice of the law.

Concerning primes and punishments, and concerning
the relation between a crime and an injury, and between
punishment and reparation, the case is widely different
indeed. On those subjects, an endless confusion has pre-
vailed, and mistakes innumerable have been coromitteds
On those subjects,4herefore, it will be proper to be full ;
and it will certainly be attempted — I promise not success
in the attempt — ^to be both accurate and perspicuous.

From an inattention or a disregard to the great prin-
ciple — ^that goyernment was made for the sake of man,
some writers have been led to consider crimes, in their
origin and nature as well as in their degrees and effects,
as different from injuries ; and have, consequently, taught,

^that without any injury to an mdividual, a crime might
be committed against the government. Suppose, says
one of the learned commentators on Grotius, that one has
done neither wrong nor injury to any individual, yet if
he has committed something which the law has prohibited,
it is a crime, which demands reparation ; because the
right of the superiour is violated, and because an injury
is offered to the dignity of his ch^'acter. ^ How naturally

' one mistake leads to another ! A mistake in legislation
produces one in criminal jurisprudence. A law which
prohibits what is neither a wrong nor an injury-to any one !
What name does it deserve ? We have seen ^ that a law

» Z War. Bib. 15. ^ Ante, vol 2. p. 443.

d

LECTURE! OH LAW»

whkh k meitiy harmless without being tynmnical, is it*
self a harm ; and should be removed*

But this doctrine is unsupported by sound legsd prin-^
ciple. Every crime includes an injury : every ofience im
also a private wrong : it affects the publick, but it affects
the individual likewise* It is true indeed, that, in very
gross injuries, we seldom hear of any satisfaction being*
annrarded to the individual, for reasons, the propriety of
which will, by and by, be examined, fiut in offences of
an inferiour nature, the distinction, and, at the u^iasor
tame, the connexion between the crime and the injury i^
most accurately marked and preserved. For a battery^
he who commits it may be indicted. Violence against
the person of an individual is a disturbance of the pub-
lick peace. On this disturbance punishment may be in-
flicted. But in the crime and the punishment, the injury
is not sunk, nor is the reparation lost. The party wha
has suffered the violence may bring his action against
the party who has committed it : and recover in damages
a satisfaction for the loss which has been sustained;

The doctrine, that a crime may be committed agaiiMt
llie pubfick, without any injury being done to an inA vi«»
dual, is as little consonant to die history,- as it ts to the
principles of criminal jurisprudence. Amongthe Saxons,
as we are informed by Mr. Selden, the most ancient way
of proceeding, in crinsdal causes, was by an appeal of
the party complaining. But afterwards, in cases whidh
concerned damage, injury, or violence done to the body
of a man or to his estate, the king"— who represented
the publick — ^was found to be thereih prejudiced, beside
the prejudice done imm^diatety to the subject : and upon
this ground, a way was found out to punish the offender

CXCTURBB ON LAW* 7 '

by mdictment, beside the sa^factkm done to tbe party

wronged. ^

In the very early periods of society, those actions,
ei^en the most atrocious, which now are viewed and pro*
eecuted as solely crimes against the state, were consider-
jed and resented merely as private injuries. In those
ages, the conceptions of men were too erode to consider
an injury done to an individual, as a crime commitlied
against the publick ; they viewed it only as a ptejndice
to the party, or the relations of the party, who were im*
mediately affected* The privilege of resenting private
injuries^ in the opinion of a very ingenious writer on the
lustory of the criminal law,^ was that private right which
iwsa the latest of being surrendered to society. An im**
psovement^ in government,, mo opposite to ni strong pror
pensity of human nature, could not have been instanta*
iieous. The progressive steps leading to its completion
were slow and almost imperceptible.

Coincident, in a very considerable degree, with these
sentiments and observations, is a part of the law and
practice of England, which at this moment subsists in
its foil force- — I mean the law and practice concerning
appeals, particularly appeals of death. An appeal is the
party^s private action, seeking satisfaction for the injury
done lum ; and at the same time, prosecuting for the
crown in respect of the offence against the publick* On
an appeal, the benign prerogative of mercy cannot be
exercised ; because, saith the law, ^ the plaintiff has an
interest in the judgment. This interest, however, may

c Bac on Gov. 53.
<* Kaims. Hist L. Tr. IP, 3Q. ♦ 5. Rep. «»•

t

B LECTURES ON LAW*

be released ; and the release will be a bar to the pro-*.

ceedings on an appeal.

«

These observations, drawn from so many separate
sources, combine in the result, that a crime against the
puUick has its foundation in an injury against an indi*
vidual. We shall see, in the progress of our investigation^
that as, in the rude ages of society, the crime was too
much overlooked ; so, in times more refined, there
has been a disposition, too strong, to overlook the iia*
jury.

Concerning the standard, by which criokes should be
measured in municipal law, there has been ^uch diver*
sity of sentiment among writers, even the wisest and
most enlightened. The law of, nature, it is admitted
on all hands, measures crimes by the intention^ and not
by the evei^ Should a standard, different from, that
which has been established by unerring wisdom, be
adopted by uninformed man? Should not that rule, which
is observed by the law divine, be observed, in humble
itnitation, bylaws which are human? It is said, npti
and it is said, that this difference must be accounted for
by diose peculiar attributes of the divine nature, which
distinguish the dispensations of supreme wisdom from
the proceedings of human tribunals. A being. whose
sA^seeing eye observes the inmost recesses of the iieart,
and whose outstretched arm no flight or stratagem can
elude or escape — such a being may consider and may
punish every crime in exact proportion to the quantity
of intrinsick guilt, which is contained .in it. But with
those to whom the trust s^ld authority of human govern-
ment is committed, the case is greatly different. Their
power and their knowledge are limited by many imper-

LECTURES ON LAW.
fecttons: speed may remove, artifice may cover th^
object of punishment from their view or their grasp :
by them, therefore, crimes must be considered in propor-
tion to the ease and security .with which they are commit.
ted or concealed,' and not in strict proportion to their
degrees of. inherent criminality*. Such, or nearly 8uch>
seem to be the sentiments of Mr. Paley.

t

The Marquis of Beccaria goes farther: he thinks him«
self authorized to assert, that ciimes are to be measured
only by the injury done to spciety. They err, therefore,
says he, who imagine that a crime is greater or less. accord-
ing, to the intention of the person by whom it is commit-
ted ; for this will depend, on the actual impression of
objects on the senses, and on the previous disposition of
the mind j and both of these will vary in different per-
sons, and even in the same person at different times,
according to the succession of ideas, passions, and
circumstances. . Upon that system, it would be necessary
to form, not only a particular code for every individual,
but a new penal law for every crime. Men with the
best, intentions, do the greatest injury, and with the.
worst, the most essential services to society. That crimes
are to be .estimated by the injury done to society, adds
he, is one of those palpable truths, which, though evi-;
dent to the meanest capacity, yet, by a combination of.
circumstances, are known only to a few thinking men,
in every nation and in every age. ^

Sir William Blackstone, in one p^rt of his Commen-
taries, seems to adopt these sentiments. All crimes^

f 2. Paley, 29L 2 W.

Bacc. 7.8.

VOL. III.
10 LBCTURES OH LAW.

$ayn he, are to be esrimated according to the mischiefs
which they produce in civil society. ^

Mr. Eden, in one part of his book on the principles
of penal law, tells us, agreeably to the same sentiments,
that crimes are of temporal creation, and to be estimated
in proportion to their pernicious effects on society : ^ in
another part, he says, that, in some cases, it is necessary
to punish the offence without any research into its mo-
tire; and that, in every case, it is impracticable for
lawgivers to assume the divine attribute of animadverting
upon the fact, only according. to the internal malice of
the intention : i in a third place, however, he expresses
himself in the following manner : ^ It is true, that crimes
are to be estimated, in some degree, by the actual mis«
chief done to society ; because the internal malignity of
mankind is not within the cognizance of human tribunals.
But if this position were received in its fullest latitude.
It would prove too much ; it would prove thai every act'
of homicide is equally criminal; and that the intention is,
in no case, to be considered:" '^ in a fourth place, he con*
aiders its flagitioudness as the standard, by which a
crime should be measured ; and informs us, thitt, by its
fiagitiousness, he means its abstri^ct nature andturpitude^
in proportion to which, the criminal should be considered
as more or less dangerous to society : Mn a fifth place,*^
he intimates the same sentiment, that ^* the malignity of
the fact is the true measure of the crime." "^

Is it not shocking to reason, says Mr. Dagge, and
destructive of virtue, to contend, that the ill consequence

^ 4. BL Com. 41. ^ Eden. 89. i IcLlS.

^ Eden. 13. ^ Id 8. » Id. 18.

LEGTUHEfi ON lAW* 11

of an act is more to be considered than its immorality i
To disregard a crime, however heinous, because it may
be supposed not to have a bad effect on society ; and to
punish slight offences severely, because they tend more
immediately to disturb the publick peace, is to sacrifice
moral equity to political expediency. But, in fact, there ,
is no real necessity for making such a sacrifice. If we
would effectually provide for the lasting peace of society,
ve should first regard private offences, which are the
sources of publick crimes. The subtle distinctions^
which casuists make between moral and political delin«
quencies, are offensive to common sense* '^

Concerning the standard by which punishments should
be measured in municipal law, there has been, as might
be expected, as mueh diversity of sentiment^ as concern*
ing the standard for the measure of crimes.

Publick utHity, says Mr. Eden, is the measure of
haman punishments ; and that utility is proportioned to
the efficacy of the example.
' - Liberty^ says Montesquieu,^ is in its highest perfec-
tion, when criminal laws derive each punishment from
the particular nature of the crime. Then the punishment
does not flow from the capriciousness of the legislator,
but from the very nature of the thing ; and man uses no
violence to man.

Among crimes <^ different natures, says Sir William
Blackstone, those should be most severely punished,
which are most destructive to the pubHck safety and

>

-^ 1. Dag. 335 343. o Eden. lil. Sp. L. b: 12. c 4.

p

it LECTURES ON LAW.

happiness: and, among crimes of an equal malignity,
thpse,^ which a man has the most frequent and easy
opportunities of committing, which cannot be so easily
guarded against as others; and which, therefore, the
offender has the greatest inducement to commit. ^

Much to the same . purpose are the expressions of
Mr. Paley — the punishment should be in a proportion
compounded of the mischief of the crime, and the ease
with which it is executed. ^

The end of human punishment, says Mr. Paley^ in
another place, should regulate the measure of its seve-*
rity. • To the propriety of this rule every one will
subscribe ; but it throws us back upon another, concern-
ing which there is an equal variety and opposition of
sentiment.

Criminals, says Plato in his book concerning laws,
are punished, not because they have oiFended, for what
is done can never be undone, but that they may not
offend. ^

The very learned Mr. Selden objects to this doctrine^
and says, that the antecedent crime is the essence of
punishment. *

The amendment of the criminal is assigned by some
as the end of punishment. To put it out of his power
to do future mischief, is the end proposed by others.

%
«i 4. Bl. Com. 16. «■ 2. Paley. 290. • Id. 2Sr.

^ 1. Dag. 203. Eden. 6. " 1. Dag. 203.

• LECTURES ON LAW, 13

To deter from the imitation of his example, is that
proposed by a third class of writers. Reparation to
the injured, is an end recommended by a fourth
class.

Almost all agree, that between crimes and punish-
ments there ought to be a proportion : but how can this
proportion be fixed among those, who are so much
at variance with regard to the measure of the objects,
between which it confessedly ought to subsist.

If there is so much diversity and contrariety of
opinion respecting the principles, how much greater
diversity and contrariety of conduct may we expect to
find with regard to the execution, of the criminal law.
Nay, how often shall we find those rules violated in
its practice, the propriety of which is agreed in its
theory*

The theory of criminal law has not, till lately, been
a subject of much attention or investigation. The Mar-
quis of Beccaria led the way. His performance derives
much importance from the sentiments and principles,
which it contains : it derives, perhaps, more from those,
which its appearance has excited in others. It induced
several of the most celebrated literati in Europe to think
upon the subject. The science, however, is, as yet, but
in a weak and infantine state. To convince you that it
is so, I need only refer you to the unsatisfactory, nay,
the contradictory sentiments, of which I have given you
an account, with regard to the two great heads of
crimes^nd punishments. That account has been ex-
tracted from the most celebrated writers on the subject

u

LECTajl£8 OK JLAW.

—from writers, indeed^ who, od any subject, would de»
serve celebrity.

To give you a history of the practice of criminal law
would be a task, not difficult, because the materials are
very copious ; but it would be very disgusting both to
you and to me. I draw the character of this praciice
from one, who appears to have a head and a heart well
qualified to feel and to judge upon the subject — ^I nveaa
the Author of the principles of penal law. ^^ The perusal
of the first volume of the English State Trials," ^ say&
he, ** is a most disgustful drudgery/.' " The proceed*
ings of our oriminal courts at this era"-^meaning that
which preceded the revolution-*— ^^ are so disgraceful^
not only to the nation, but to human nature, that, as they
cannot be disbelieved, I wish them to be buried in obli-
vion. From oblivion, it is neither my duty nor inclina^
tion to rescue them." — No ; nor to rescue from oblivion
the proceedings of other ages and of other countries,,
equally disgraceful and disgustfuL I recite only a single
instance.

Mr. Pope, in his picturesque and interesting retro-
spect of the barbarous reigns of the Conqueror and his
son,, asks, alluding to the laws of the forests —

What wonder then, if beast or subject slain
Were equal crimes in a despotick reign ?
Both) doom'd alike, for sportive tyrants bled^
But while the subject starved, the beast was fed. ^

Many, I dare say, have considered this as a fine^fancilul
description of the Poet. It has^ however, been exceeded

""Eden. 199.

T Wmdsor Forest.

LECTURES ON LAW. 15

by the strict severity of fact. We are, in the Life of
Mr. Turgot, told in plain and sober prose, that so rigor-
ous were the forest lawss of France even so lately, that
a peasant, charged with having killed a wild boar, al-
leged as an alleviation of the charge, that he thought
it wa^ a man. *

In these lectures, I have had frequent occasion t^
observe andto regret the imperfection and the improprie-
ty, which are seen too^plainly in the civil codes and in-
stitutions of Europe: it is the remark — it is the just
remark of Sir William Blackstone, that, " In every
country of Europe, the criminal law is more rude and
imperfect than the civil." ^ Instead of being, as it ought
to be, an emanation from the law of nature and mo-
rality ; it has too often been avowedly and syst^natically
the reverse. It has been a combination of the strong
against the weak, of the rich against the poor, of pride
andvinterest against justice and humanity. Unfortu-
nate, indeed, it is, that this has been the case ; for we
may truly say, that on the excellence of the criminal
law, the liberty and the happiness of the people chiefly
depend.

By this time, you see very clearly, that I was well
warranted to announce, even in the summary of my sys-
tem, that the criminal law greatly needs reformation. I
added — In the United States, the seeds of reformation
are sown. Those seeds, and the tender plants which
from some of them are now beginning to spring, let it
be our care to discover and to cultivate. From those
w«eds, luxuriant and strong, with which they are still
intermingled, and by which, if they continue so, they

« Pvi Lect 397. r 4. BL Com. 2.
LECTURES OK LAW.

will indubitably be choked, let it be our business indiia^
triously to separate them. From those beasts of the fo*
rest, by whom, if left unguarded, they will unquestiona-
bly be devoured, let it be our effort vigorously to dinkn^i
them.

In the fields of the common law, which, for ages past,
have lain waste and neglected, some of those seeds and
plants will, cm an accurate inquiry, be found. In the
gardens Qf the American constitutions, others, and the
most choice of them, have been sown and planted by
liberal hands.

The generical term used immemorially by the common
law, to denote a crime, is felony. True indeed it is, that
the ideapf felony is now very generally and Very strongly
connected with capital punis^hment; so generally and so
strongly, diat if an act of parliament denominates any
new offence a felony, the legal inference drawa from it^
is, that the offender shall be punished for it capitally.
But thb inference, whatever legal authority it may now
have acquired, is by no means entitled to the merit of
critical ticcuracy. At this moment, every felony does
not, in England, receive a punishment which is capital :
petit larceny is a felony. At this moment, one felony
escapes in England, as it must in all other countries,
every degree of punishment that is human : suicide is a
felony- At the common law, few felonies, indeed, were
punished with death.

Treason is now considered, both in legal and in ver-
nacular language, as a species bf crime distinct from th|it
of felony ; but originally it was not so considered. ^^ In

LECTURES ON LAW. 17

ancient time," says my Lord Coke, » " every treason was
comprehended under the name of felony." Indeed it was
so,, down even to the time of Edward the third ; for the
famous statute of treasons, made in his reign, uses these
expressions — ^ treason or other felony,"

It will be very important to ascertain the true meaning
of a term, employed so extensively and so long by the
common law, to convey the idea of a crime.

In order to ascertain the true meaning, it is frequently
of importance to ascertain th^ true etymology, of a term ;
and in order to ascertain that of the term felony^ much
learned labour has been bestowed by juridical lexicog
graphers and criticks.

Sir William Blackstoncf asserts that its original is un-
doubtedly feudal ; and being so, we ought to look for its
derivation in the Teutonick or German language ; knd
he prefers that given by Sir Henry Spelman ; according
to whom, felon is taken from two northern words, fee^
which signifies, as all know, the fief, feud, or beneficiary
estate ; toad hn, which signifies price <ft value. -Felony
is, therefore, the same as pretiumfeudi^ the consideration^
for which a man gives up his fief; as we say, in common
speech, such an act is as much as your life or estate is
■worth. ** In this sense," says Sir William, "it will
cleariy signify the feudal forfeiture, or act, by which an
estate is forfeited or escheats to the lord." ^ He mentions
two other derivations, and adds — ^ Sir Edward Coke, as
Iris manner is, has given us a still stranger etymology ;

' alios. 15. * 4. BL Com. 95. 96.

VOL, III. D
LECTURES ON LAW.

that It is, '* crimen ^nimofelleo perpctratum," with a bitter
or gallish inclinatioD. ^

The authority of Sir Henry Spelman, in matters of
legal antiquity, is unquestionably respectable : it is unfor-
tunate, on this as on many other occasions, that his Glos-
sary, the work' here cited, is not in my power ; and, there-
fore, I cannot examine particularly what he says upon the
subject.

Serjeant Hawkins, so noted for his painful accuracy
and his guarded caution, cites s in his treatise of the pleas
of the crown, both the places which are cited by the
^uthor of the Commentaries. The Serjeant had proba-
bly examined both : he follows the description of my
Lord Coke. From this, I infer one of the two things—
that Mr. Hawkins (either found something in the Glossary,
which prevented his assent to the conclusion drawn from
it, or preferred the authority of my Lord Coke to that of
Sir Henry Spelman. Thus, on one side we find Sir
Henry Spelman and Sir William Blackstone ; on the
other, my Lord Coke and Serjeant Hawkins. In each,
scale of authority the weight is great ; but, in both, it is
equal : the beam of decision inclines at neither end.

If an estate could be purchased, instead of being for-
feited, by a felony, I can easily conceive how the crime
might be viewed as the consideration of the purchase : if
a fee signified a crime, instead of signifying a fief, I can
easily conceive how the estate might be viewed as the
value forfeited by its commission. But the ^^ pretium
feudi," applied in the manner and arrangement^ in which

^ 4. BL Com. 95. l.Ix».391a.

LSGTUBES ON JLAW. 19

the application is made here, appears, in my humble con-
ception, to be etymology inverted. Thus stand the pro-
priety and the authority of the derivation adopted by the
Author of the Commentaries.

My Lord Coke, whei^ he refers the meaning and the
description of felony to the motive, and not to the event,
to the disposition which produced it, and not to the for-
feiture which it incurs, cites, in the margin, the authority
of GlanviUe, the oldest book now extant in law, and two
very 4mcient statutes; one made in the reign of Henry
the third ; the other in that of his son, Edward the first.
With regard to GlanviUe, there must be some numerical
mbtake in the margin ; for it refers us to the fifteenth
chapter of the fourteenth book : in that book, there are
only eight chapters. The statutes I have examined : you
shall judge whether they support that meaning of felony,
for the truth of which they are cited.

The first is the twenty fifth chapter of the statute of
Marlbridge, which was made in the fifty second year of
Henry the third. It is very short. " In future, it shall
not, by our justices, be adjudged murder, where it in
found misfortune only ; but it shall take place as to such
as are slain by felony — interfectis per feloniam — ^and not
otherwise." Felony is here put most obviously in a con-
trasted opposition to misfortune ; intention to accident.
But ^hat is peculiarly unfortunate for the etymology of
Sir William Blackstone, a forfeiture was incurred at that
time, and, according to the reprehensible theory retain-
ed in England for the sake of fees and not for the sake of
justice, a forfeiture is still incurred, where a homicide
happens by misfortune, ^ as well as where it is committed

c 4. Bl. Com. 188.

X

20 L£CTURE8 ON LA^.

feloniously. If fdoay, therefore, ^^ signifies dearie/' as
be says, ^^such a crime as works a forfeiture of th^
offender's lands or goods," tUe distinction mentioned in
the statute would be absurd and ridiculous ; referring
felony to the principle, and not to the consequences of the
fact, the provision in the statute is just and humane.

The other statute cited by my Lord Coke is the six^
teenth chapter of Westminster the first, made in the third
year of the first Edward. It distinguishes between those
criminals who may be bailed, and those who oug^t not
to be bailed. In the latter class are ranked those, who
are taken for house burning fehnioutly done— ^^ feloni-
easement fait," — Does this direct our view to the punish-
ment, or to the intention \

But I am able to produce instances still more ancient
and still more strong. The Mirrour of Justices, as has
been mentioned oftener than once, contains a collection of
the law, chiefly as it stood before the conquest ; and con-
sequently before the feiklal system was introduced into
England. In that collection there is a chapter concerning
incendiaries : th^y are thus described-^— -Incendiaries are
those who burn a city, a town, a house, a man, a beast or
other chattels of their felony — ^'* de leur felony ,'*— in time
of peace for hatred or vengeance. Do the words of their
felony describe that principle, which gives the crime its
^^body and its form?" or do they relate to a feudal for-
feiture, then unknown ?

But to put the matter in a light still more striking and
clear: in the next sentence, a case is supposed, in which
the Intention existed, the fact was committed ; but the
effect did not take place ; and, consequently, the punish-

' LECTURES ON LAVf. ^ 21

ment was not to be inflicted : yet the action is said to be
dime feloniously* " If one puts fire to a manfeloniousiy —
felonieusement — so that he is scorched or hurt^ but not
killed by the fire ; it is not a capital crime."

I suggest another argument, the legal force of which
will) by every professional gentleman, be seen immediate*
ly to be irresistible. In every indictment for felony, the
fact charged must be laid to have been done feloniously.
To express this meaning, no other term in our language
is legally adequate. ^ The antiquity of indictments, and
the high authm-ity of their essential forms, I pretend not
to ascertain or to circumscribe.

But Sir William Blackstone, in this passage, is oppo-
sed not only by principle, by precedent, and by other
authority; he is, I think, clearly opposed by his own.
He says here, as we have seen, that felony clearly sig-
nifies the feudal forfeiture, or act, by which an estate
is forfeited^ or escheats to the lord^ And yet, in another
place,/ he recommends great care in distinguishing
between escheat to the lord, and forfeiture to the king ;
and traces them very properly to different sources.
^^ Forfeiture of lands," says he,^' and of whatever else the
offender possessed, was the doctrine of the old Saxon
law, as a part of the punishment for the offence ; and
does not at all relate to the feudal system, nor is the
consequence of any signiory or lordship paramount ; but
being a prerogative vested in the crown, was neither
sapeiseded nor diminished by the introduction of the
Norman tenures; a fruit and consequence of which

^ 4. Gov. Ang. Nor. 504. « 1, Haw. 61.

^ 3. Bl. Com. 351. 353.
22 LECTURES ON LAW.

escheat must undoubtedly be reckoned. Escheat, there-
fore, operates in subordination to the more ancient and
superiour law of forfeiture.

^^ The doctrine of escheat upon attainder, taken singlj,
is this, that the blood of the tenant, by the commissioa
of any felony (under which denomination all treasons
were fDrmerly comprised) is corrupted and stained, smd
the original donation of the feud is thereby deterrainedy
it being always granted to the vassal on the implied con-
dition of dum bene se gesserit^ Upon the thorough
demonstration of which guilt by legal attainder, the
feudal covenant and mutual bond of fealty are held to
be broken, the estate instantly falls back from the offen*
der to the lord of the fee, and the inheritable quality of
his blood is extinguished and blotted out for even In
this situation the law of feudal escheat was brought into
England at the conquest, and in general superadded to
the ancient law of forfeiture. In consequence of which
corruption and extinction of hereditary blood, the land of
all felons would immediately revest in the lord, but
that the superiour law of forfeiture intervenes, and inter-
cepts it in its passage ; in cstse of treason for ever ; in
case of other felony, for only a year and a day ; after
which time, it goes to the lord in a regular course of
escheat, as it would have 'done to the heir of the felon,
in case the feudal tenures had never been introduced*
And that this is the true operation and genuine history
of escheats, will most evidently appear from this incident
to gavelkind lands (which seem to be the old Saxon
tenure) that they are in no case subject to escheat for
felony, though they are liable to forfeiture for trea-
son."

LECTURES QN LAW. 2S

Instead, therefore, of considering felony as a feudal
forfeitare or escheat, we are here taught, and properly
taught, to view them as flowing from different sources,
and, in their operations, not only distinct, but incond-
patible.

Having thus traced the true meaning of felony, not
to the event or part of the punishment, but to the prin-
ciple and disposition from which it proceeds ; our next
step will be to ascertain, as plainly and as correctly as
possible, the nature and character of that principle and
disposition. ' It is characterized by the epithet felieo^
Some derive it from the Latin verb failo^ which signifies,
to deceive, others from the Greek word ^hAh, which
signifies an impostor or deceiver. In language, these
derivations are different: in sentiment, they are the
same. Perhaps they may lead us to as just a concep-
tion as can well be formed of felony— the generical term
employed by the common law to denote a crime.

Without mutual confidence between its members,
society, it is evident, 'could not exist. This mutual and
pervading confidence may well be considered as the
attractive principle of the associating contract. To place
that confidence in all the others is the social right, to
deserve that confidence from all the others is the social
duty, of every member. To entertain a disposition, in
which that confidence cannot with propriety be placed,
is a breach of the social duty, and a violation of the
social right : it is a crime inchoate. When an injury,
atrocious in its nature, or evil in its example, is commit-
ted voluntarily against any one member, the author of
that voluntary injury has, by his conduct, shown to all,

24 . I.£CTUlt£S OW LAW.

that their right is violated ; that his duty is broken ; that
they cannot enjoy any longer their right of placing con-
fidence in him ; that he entertains a disposition unworthy
of this confidence ; that he is false, deceitful, and treache*
rous : the crime is now completed.

A disposition, regardless of social duty to all, and
discovered by an injury, voluntary, and atrocious or
dangerous, committed against one- — ^this is a crime
against society. Neither the disposition separated from
the injury, nor the injury separated from the disposition,
constitutes a crime. But though both the ingredients
are necessary, they have not an equal operation in form-
ing that character, from which a crime receives its deno-
mination. In the consideration of crimes, the intention
is chiefly to be regarded.

As the injuries, and the breaches of social trust and
confidence, which we have mentioned, may relate to a
great variety of objects, and, in their own nature, may
be more or less aggravated, it follows, that crimes may
be distinguished into many different species, and are sus-
ceptible of many different degrees.

Some think, that, at common law, the disposition,
separated from the injury, constituted a crime. The
saying, that *' voluntas reputabitur pro facto," seems to
liave given rise to this opinion. On a close examination,
however, it will, I imagine, appear, that, in all the cases,
on which the opinion is founded, and from which the
saying is drawn, an injury was done, though not the
injury intended to be done.

L£CTUIt£S OH LAW. 25
m

Avery ancient case is reported in the following man-
ner. A man*s wife went away with hei- adulterer; and
diey compassed the death of the husband ; and as he was
riding towards the sessions of oyer and terminer and
gaol delivery, they assaulted and beat him with weapons,
^o that he fell down as dead : upon this they fled. The
husband l*ecovered, and made hue and cry, and came
to the sessions^ and showed all this matter to the justices;
and, upon the warrant of the justices, the woman and
her adulterer were <^en, indicted, and arraigned. , All
this special matter was found by a verdict ; and it was
adjudged, that the man should be hanged, knd the woman
burnt. ^ Here, indeed, the injury intended and com-
passed— -*for to compass is, in legal understandings to
intend'^^was not carried into complete execution: an
atfocious injury, however, was perpetrated.

Another case is mentioned to the following purpose.
A young man was arndgned, because he intended to have
stolen his master's goods, and came to his master's bed,
wjiere he lay asleep, and, with a khife, attempted, with all
his force, to have cut his throat ; and, thinking that he had
indeed cut it, fled ; upon this, the master cried out ; and
his neighbours apprehended the young man. All this
matter was found by a special verdict ; and, in the end,
the young man was adjudged to be hanged. Quia voluntas
repuliibitur pro facto. But upon this case it is to be ob-
served, that there was much more than mere intentioh : a
barbarous outrage was committed on the person of a man ;
and was even thought by the aggressor to have been fully
completed in its most extreme extent. For the young

e 3. Ins. 5.

VOL* ill.' E .

26 LEGTUUBfi ON LAW.

man, it is said, thought that he had indeed cut his master's
throat. Accordingly^ my Lord Coke says upon this
subject, that it was not a bare compassing or plouing^ of
the death of a man, either by word, or even by writing ;
but that some overt deed to manifest thai compassing or
plotting was necessary.

In a species of high treason, and in a specif s of feIo«
ny, the rule is still observed — ^that the intention manL*
fested by a degree of injur}^ though not thp degree ia-
tended, constitutes the crime. This is the icase in
compassing the death of the king. Though this intention
be not completed by his death ; the^ crime is completed
by what is called an overt act^ manifesting that intention
by injurious and disloyal conduct* Indeed this rule is so
strictly observed in this species of treason, that even
when the intention is carried into full effect by putting
the king to death, this conq)le4on itself, connected with
the intention, is not considered as constituting the crinio:
it is viewed only as the injurious and overt act w)dch
manifests that intention. Agreeably to. these principles,
the regicides of Charles the first were indicted as CQm-!
passing his death, and the fact of beheading him was
specified and made use of as one of the overt acts to
prove this compassing. ^

The species of felony, in which the rule above men-
tioned still governs, is burglary. A burglar, ;says my
Lord Coke, is, by the common law, a felon, who, in
the night, breaketh and entereth into a mansion house of
another, with intent to commit some felony within it. ^
The intention in this crime is to commit a felony ; but,

kKeL 8. iS.Ins.63.

IKCTVRES ON LAW. SV

in order to constitute the crime, it is not necessary that
die intention should be executed; the injurious act^
done at the time and the place and in the manner de-
scribed are sufficient : nay more ; if the intention be
completed by committing the felony, yet, if it be not
committed at the time and the place, and in the manner
described, it is not a burglary, though it is a felony of
another species.

' The-foregoing cases, the view under which I have
stated them, and the observations which I have drawn
from them^ show strongly the spirit of the common law
in its estimation of crimes. In those cases, the felony
or treason is traced to the malignity of the principle,
not to the mischief of the consequences : the crime is
coiBtituted, though the event fail.

In other cases, indeed, the completion of the evei^t
is necessary to the constitution of the crime ; but even
in these, the intention is much more considered than the
act. '^ Actus non facit reum, nisi mens sit rea," J is, I
believe, a rule of immemorial antiquity in the common
law. If, indeed, it is an errour, as the Marquis of Bec-
calia alleges it to be, to thin^ a crime greater or less ac-
cording to the intention of him by whoni it is committed,
it is, in the common law, an errour of the most invete-
rate kind ; it is an errour which the experience of ages
has not been able to correct. ^^ Justitia," said Bracton
ihany hundred years ago, ^' est voluntarium bonum ;
nee enim potest dici bonum proprie, nisi intercedente
voluntate: toUe enim voluntatem, et erit onmis actus
andifferens. AfFectio quidem tua nomen imponit operi

i 3. Ins. 6,

28 LECTURES ON I. AW*

tuo. Crimen non contrahitur nisi voluntas nocemii^^ ii^
tercedat. Voluntas et propositum distin§^unt maleficia*
Furtum omnino non committitur sineaffectu fuinndL In
maleficiis spectatur voluntas et non exitusJ^ ^

*

But, on one hand as well as on the other, there is an
extreme. The intention governs; the intention con^
municates its colours to thQ act : but the act-*-tbe injuria
ous act must be done. Abstract turpitude is not, I ap-
prchend, a subject of cognizance in a human forum.
The breach of our duty to man and to society alone ia
the object of municipal reprehension. For those senti*
ments, for those principles, nay for those actions, by
which no other member of society can be afife^c^ed, no
one member is accountable to the othe;^. For such
sentiments, for such principles, and for such actions,
he is amenable only to the tribunal within, and the
tribunal above him. In the human cpde we have
seen it to be a rule, that without an injury there is no
crime.

Let us not, however, confine our conceptions of in-
jury to the loss or to the risk merely of pipperty. Of
injury, all our rights, natural and ^ivil, absolute and re-
lative, are susceptible* Every injurious violation, th^e-
fore, of any of those rights may lay the foundation of a
crime. The strings of society are sometimes stretched .
in the nicest unison : strike one, and aU emit a com-
plaining tone. Is a single member of society menaced?
He who threatens is bound in a recognisance to keep the
peace towards every other ciuzen, as well as towards
him, to whom the immediate cause of alarm was given.'"

^Brac.3& > Id. 136 b. m 4. BL Com. 250J

■i

\

LECTURES OK XAW. * 20

I have now traced and described the principles ef the
common law with regard to the measure of crimes. Wc
have seen with what wise and experienced caution its
rules are guarded from every extreme. The result: seems
to be, that the common law estimates crimes by the de-
sign chiefly, but pays a proportionate attention to the fact
—-by the malignity, without overlooking the injury, of
the transaction. After ideal perfection in her calculatipns
concerning those amounts ^and proportions she aspires
not ; she is satisfied with that practical degree of accura-
C}', which a long and careful experience can attain.

From the consideration of crimes I pass to the con-
sideration of puhishments. On this subject some rules,
, and some valuable ones too, may be gleaned from the
principles and the practice of the common law ; but we
must have, recourse chiefly to those which are founded
on our new but improved political establishments, and to
those which result from the general principles of criminal
jurisprudence.

* •

Every crime, we have seen, includes an injury : this
I consider as a leading maxim in the doctrine of crimes.
In the punishment of eVerj'^ crime, reparation for the in-
cluded injury ought to be involved : this I consider as a
leading maxim in the doctrine of punishments.

In this particular, the law of England is defective to
a degree both gross and cruel. The father of a family,
whose subsistance depends on his personal industry, is,
in the arms of his wife, and amidst his surrounding chil-
dren, stabbed by the order of an insolent and barbarous
neighbour. The miserable sufferers by the event are
the miserable witnesses of the crime. The assassin,

3Q L&CTURS8 ON LAW.

who has OFjdered it, is opulent and powerfuL To the
honour of ^ the English law and of its administraticm be
it said, that no degree of opulence or power will purchase
or commsuid ixnpunity to the guilty: this assassin will
feel its avenging arm. But to the~honour of the English
law and of its adnunistration can'it be added, that everjr
degree of injury shall find, its proportioned de^ee of
reparation ; and that as the assassin is not above its pow-
er, so those who suffer by the assassination are not be-
neath its care ? No. This addition cannot be made. The
widow and the orphans, who were the witnesses of the
crime and the auffet-ers by the loss, are recognized in
the former, but not in the latter chfiracter* They at-
tend to give their testimony on the trial* The rich
culprit is, condemned as he ought to be* They af^ly to
obtain reparation-fbrihe loss— -of the life ? That is ir-
reparable' — of the industry of their husband and father,
from the ample patrimony of the criminal, who occa-
sioned the loss? To this applioatimi, reasonable and
just, what is the answer which must be given in the spi-
rit of the law ? His property is forfeited by the crime ;
no funds remain to make you reparation for your loss.
They are dismissed, without being reimbursed the ex-
pense of their attendance in consequence of their duty
ai^d the order of the law ; for the king pays no costs*
Can this be right ?

It was,, in ancient times, ordered otherwise and better*
In the early part of our juridical history, we find that a
part of the composition or forfeiture for homicide was
given to the relations of the person deceased. '^ We find
likewise, that, in those times, penalties in cases of per- ,

' ^ % Henry 289. 2. Dag. 90. Eden. 217.

\
I

LECTUKX6 ON LAW* 91

sonal iajury had so far the nature of a civil redress, that
they were given as a compensation to the person injured.
Thus it was among the ancient Saxons. Reparation, in-
deed, was one great object in the Anglo-Saxon system of
criminal law. The principle may be traced to the Gcr*-
mans as described by Tacitus. ^ ^^ Recipitque satisfac-
tionem universa domus." In one of the very early laws
of Pennsylvania, it is directed that ^' those next of kin
shall be considered in the loss occasioned by the death of
the party killed." r

Another quality of the Saxon jurisprudence in crimi^
nal matters deserves our attention — I add, our imitation :
they inflicted very few capital punishments* • Such was
the case, we are told, formerly in Scotland ; such was
it originally in Ireland; and such was it anciendy ifi
Wales. '

In every cate before judgment, the Romans allowed
an accused citizen to withdraw himself from the conse*
quences of conviction into a voluntary exile. To this
institution, the (anaep practice of abjuration in England
bore a strong resemblance. This was permitted, as my
Liord Coke says, when the criminal chose rather ^^perdere
patriam, quam vitam." "^ On the same principles, a liberty
was given, in Gteece, to a person accused to disappear
after his first defence, and retire into voluntary banish-
ment— *in the language of the English law, to abjure the
realm after the indictment was found. ^

F 1. Rccv. 12. « De. Mor. Germ, c* 21. 2. Dag. 77.

r R. O. Book A. p. 49. • 4. BL Com. 406.

» 1. Whitak. 278. « Eden. 31. " 2. Gog. Or. L. 7%
LE€TU&£S ON LAV.

' Sabacos, one of the legislators of £gypt, went still
further. He abolished capUaipuni&hineQtd, aod ordained,
that such criminals as were judged worthy of death should
be employed in the publick works. Egypt, he;thoi:^ht,
would derive more advantage from this kind of punish-
ment ; which, being imposed for life, appeared equally
adapted to punish and to repress crimes. ^

Punishments ought unquestionably to be moderate and
mild. I know the opinion advanced by some writers,
that the number of crimes is diminished by the severi^
of punishments ; I know, that if we inspect the greatest
part of the criminal codes, their unwieldy size and their
ensanguined hue wiU force uis to acknowledge, that the
opinion has been general and prevalent. On accurate and
unbiassed examination, however, it will appear to be an
opinion unfounded and pernicious, inconsistent wkh the
principles of our nature, and, by a necessary consequence,
with those of wise and good government.

So far as any sentiment of generous sympathy is sufler«
ed, by a merciless code, to remain among the citizens,
their abhorrence of crimes is, by Ae barbarous exhibitions
of human agony, sunk in the commiseration of criminals.
These barbai*ous exhibitions are productive of anoth^
bad effect — ^a latent and gradual, but a powerfui, because
a natural, aversion to the laws. Can law&, whkh are a
natural and a just object of aversion, receive a cheerful
obedience, or secure a regular and uniform execution ?
The expectation is forbidden by some of the strongest
principles in the human frame. Such law^i while they
excite the compassion of society for tljose who suffer,

^ 3.Go5.0r.L. 15.

y

&

I.£CTUR£B ON LAW*

3§

/

rouse its indignation against tbose who are active ^n the
steps preparatory to their su£Fering8*

' The result of those combined emotions, operating
vigorously in concert, may be easily conjectured. The
criminal will probably be dismissed without prosecution,
by those whom he has injured. If prosecuted and.tried*
the jury will probably find, or think they find, some decent
ground, on which they may be justified or, at least, ex«>.
cused in giving a verdict of acquittal. If convicted, the
Judges will, with avidity, receive and support every,'the
nicest, exception to the proceedings against him ; and, if
all other thiogs should fail, will have recourse to the last
expedient within their reach for exempting him from
rigorous punishment — that of recommending him to the
mercy of the pardoning power. In this manner the acer«
bity of punishment deadens the execution of the law.

The criminal) pardoned, repeats the ^rtrne, under tbo
expectation that the impunity also will be repeated. Tho
habits of vice and depravity are gradually formed within!

. him* Those habits acquire, by exercise, continued ac-
cessions of strength and inveteracy. In the progress of
his coarse, he is led to engage in some desperate attempt.
From one desperate attempt he- boldly proceeds to an*
other ; till, at last, he necessarily becomes the victim of

'that preposterous rigour, which repeated impunity had
taught him to despise, because it had persuaded him that
he might always escape.

When, on the other hand, punishments are moderate
and mild, every one will, from a sense of interest and of
•duty, take his proper part in detecting, in exposing, in
trying, and in passing sentence on crimes. The CQns««

VOL. Ill* r

Z4

LSCTVRBs on likir*

qtience will be, diat criminals will seldom ekide*tli(e v^gi*
lance, or baffle the energy of ptiblick justice.

True it is, that, on some emergencies, excesses o€ a
temporary nature may receive a sudden check from ri^go*^
>rous penalties : but their continuance and their fr^nei^y^
introduce and diffuse a hardened insensibiUty ammig the
citizens ; and this insensibility, in its turn, gives occaaioa
or pretence to the further extension^and multipKcation of
those penalties. Thus one degree of severity^opetis afkl
smooths the way for another, till, at -length, under clie
specious appearance of necessary justice, a system of
cruelty is established by law. Such a system is calculated^
to eradicate all the manly sentiments of the sovd, and U9>
substitute in their place dispositions of themostdiiprairei^
and degrading kind. i

•.*

The principles both of utility ahd of justice require,
that the commission of a crime should be followed by a
speedy infliction of the punishments *

The association of ideas has vast power over the seatiiii
ments, the passions, and the conduct of men. Whemi»
penalty marches close in the rear of the oilbiiGe, against
which it is denounced, an asspctation>, strong and s€ri]EiB]g^
is produced between them, and they are viewed an ih»t
inseparable relation of caus^ and effects When, oa^be
contrary, the punishment i$ proccastinated to a teioM^
period, this connexion is considered as weak and preca«
nous, and the execution of the law is beheld and suffered
as a detached instance of severity/warrantedbyno^eog^l
teason, and springing from no laudable motive* • >

- It is just, as well as ttseful, that the punishment dvmddl
be inflicted soon after the commission of the crime* It

\
UCCTURES JON LAW. B^

«

•kimld never, b^ forgotten, th^t rmpri&onment,* though
oftea necessary for the safe custody of the person accu-
sed, is, nevertheless, in itself a punishmfsnt — a punish**
-meat galUng^to some of the . finest feelings of the heart

pumkhment, too, which, as it precedes conviction,

be as undeserved as it is distressing.

But imprisonment is not the only penalty, which an
-^accused person undergoes beJfore his trial. He undergoes
jnko *the corroding torment of suspense — ^the keenest
.agony, perhaps^ which falls to the lot of suffering huma-
jQiity« This ag<my is by no ilieand to be estimated by the
redi probability or danger of conviction : it bears a com*
pound proportion to the delicacy of sentiment and the .
Strength of imagination pc^sessed by him, who is doomed
to become its prey. ' *

These observations show, that those accused of crimes
ehould be speedily tried ; and that those convicted of
them should be speedily punished. But with regard to
this, as with regard to almost every other subject, there
ia^an extreme on one hand as well as on the other;' and
llie extremes on each hand should be avoided with equal
care. In some cases, at some times, and under some
circumstances, a delay of the trial and of the punishment,
instead of being hurtful or pernicious, may, in the highest
^gree, be salutary and beneficial, both to the publiek
aad to him who is accused or convicted.

. . Pnsjttdices may naturally arise, or may be artfully
{(Mneoted, against the crime, or against the man who is
charged with having committed it. A delay should be
allowed, that those prejudices may subside, and thai;
neither the judges nor jurors may, at the trial, act

$6 LECTtl^ES ON tAW.

under the fascinating impressions of sentiments conce^e^
before the evidence is heard, instead of the cadm influx
ence of those which should be its impartial amd deliberate
result* A sufficient time should be given to prepare thfc
prosecution on the paxt of the state, and the defisnce
of it on the part of the prisoner. This time must vasy
according to different persons, dttferent crimes, and -
different situations. * " '- ■

After conviction, the punishment assigned to aa
inferiour offence should be inflicted with much expedi^
tion. Tikis will strengdien the useful associatilcm betwe^fit
them ; one appearing as the immediate and unavoidailite
consequence of the other. When a sentence of d<^atb ^
pronounced, such an interval should be permitted t4
elapse before its execution, as will render the langoi^
of political expediency conscniant to the language ofre)!^
gion.

Under these qualifications, the speedy punishmei^
of criniesf should fotm a part in every system ofcri^i*
nal jurisprudence. The constitution of Pennsylvania &
declares, that in all: criminal prosecutions, the accused
has a " right to a speedy trial."

The certainty of punishments is aqui£ty of the gri^ate^
importance* This quality is, in its operation, most meN
ciful as >vell as most powerful. When a criminal deter-
^ mines on the connmission of a crime, he is not so much
influenced by the lenity of the punishment, as by the
expectaticjn, that, in some way or other, he may be for-
tunate enough to avoid it* This is; particularly the case

3c Art 9.1* 9. *.

I

LECTURES OH LAW* 9t

s

i^ilh Win, when this expectation is cherished by the exam-*
pie ot* by the experience of impunity. It was the saying
of Solon, that he had completed his system of laws by
the combtoed energy of justice and strength. By this
cxpivs^ion he meant to denote, that laws, of themselves,
would be of very^itde service^ unless they were enforced
by a faithful and an effectual execution of them. The
strict execution of every criminal law is the dictate of
humanity as well as of wisdom.

V

By this rule, important as well as general, I mean not
to exclude the pardoning power from my system of
ca-iminal jurisprudence. That power ought to continue
till the system and the proceedings under it become abso-
lutely perfect—- in other words—it ou^ht to continue
while laws are made and administered by men. But I
jinean that the exercise of the pardoning power should
be confined to exceptions, well ascertained, from the
general rule. Confined in this manner, instead of sha-
king the tFUtii or diminishing the force of the rule, the
^^lE^rcise of tfle poorer to pardon will confirm the former
9ndincrease the latter*

Need I mention it as a rule, that punishments ought
to be inflicted upon those persons only, who have com*
mitted crimes— -that the innocent ought not to be
blended ia- cruel and ruinous confusion with the guilty 7

Yes.; it is necessary to mention this as a rule: for,
however plain and straight it is, when viewed through
thd pure and clear giber of reason and humanity, it has

«\t been seen by those whom pride and avarice have
inded ; nay, it has been represented as a rule, crooked
and distorted, by those who have beheld it through the

99 LECTUKCS OK LAW*

gross and refracting atmosphere of false polity and fabe
philosophy. The doctrines of forfeiture and corruptiQa
of blood have found their ingenicms advocates, as weU
as their powerful patrons. «

There have been countries and times*— there still ave
countries and times, when and where the rule, founded
injustice smd nature, that the property of the parent is the
inheritance^ of his children, has been intercepted in iti^
benign operation by the cruel interferencej?f another rule,
founded in tyranny and avarice — the crimes of the sidject
are the inheritance of the prince. At those times^ and in
those countries, an insvilt to society becomes a pecuniary-
favour to the crown; the appointed guardian of the'
fmblick. security becomes interested in the violation of
the law ; and the hallowed ministers of justice become
the rapacious 'agents of the treasury.

A poisoned fount^n throws out its bitter waters in
tvery direction. This rule, hostile to the nearest domes*
tick connexions, was unfriendly also to the safety of
the publick. If the inheritance was reaped by the prince \
it was, by him, deemed a matter of small moment^ that .
impunity was stipulated for the crime. Accordingly, >
ive are told, that, in the thirteenth century, one of the
methods, by which the kings of England and of other
parts of Europe supplied their exchequers, was the sale
of pardons for crimes. ^ When crimes were the sources
of princely wealth, it is no wonder if they were objects of
princely indulgence. In this manner we may naturally
aecoutiit for the disorder and violence, which, in those
ages, prevailed so universally over Europe. ||k

.7 Bar. on St 2r.

LliCTTJREB <Mf lAW. • % 39

- The law of forfeiture it has been attempted to defend
by considerations drawn from utility, and, also from na-
tural justice. The high authority of Cicero is also * pro^-
duced upon this occasion — " Nee vero me fugit^ quam>
sit acerbum, parentum scelera filiorum po&nis lui ; sedf
hoc prsBcIare legibus comparatum est, ut caritas liberorunv
amiciores parentes reipublicae redderet."* Amicus Cice*
ro — sed magis arnica Veritas. For the high authority of;
Cicero, I certainly entertain a proportionate degree of
respect ; but implicit deference should be paid to none.
Besides ; in the, passage quoted, Cicero does not speak in
a character of authority. He decides not as a judge:
he pleads his own cause as a culprit ; he defends, before
Brtitud, a rigorous vote, which he had given in the se*
nate, against the sons of Lepidus.

But farther ; upon a closer investigation, it will, per-
haps, be found, that the principle of policy, on which
Cicero rests his defence, as it certainly is not of the most
generous, neither is it of the most enlarged kind ; since
forfeitures, far from preventing piiblick crimes and
publick dangers, may have the strongest tendency to
multiply and to perpetuate both. When the law says,
that the children of him, who has been guilty of critnes,
shall be bereaved of all their hopes and all their rights
of inheritance y that they shall languish in perpetual in*
digence and distress ; that their whole life shall be one
da:rk scene of punishment, unintermitted and un^bating;
and that death alone shall provide for them an asylum
from their misery — when such is the language, or such
is the effect of the law; with what sentiments must it
inspire those, who are doomed to become its4}nfortunate

» 4. W. Cwa. 37S. * Ep» ad Brut, 15.

40 hZCTUKEB OW I.AV.

f

though unoffending victims ? — with what sentiments must
it inspire those, who from humanity feel, or by nature
are bound to take, an interest in the fortunes and in the
fate of those victims, unfortunate though unoffending I
lyith sentiments of pain and disgust — with sentiments
of irritation and disappointment — ^with sentiments of ft
deadly feud against the state which has adopted, and,
perhaps, against the citizens also who have enforced it.

Vain is the attempt to range the cold and timid sug*
gestions of policy a^inst the vivid and the indelibly
feelings of nature, and against the warm though impar*
tial dictates of humanity. Who will undertake to satisfy
an innocent son, that he is the vicdm — who will under*
take to persuade his relations — ^his virtuous — his patriot*
ick-— his meritoriously patriotick relations, that one so
nearly connected with them is the victim, whom the
publick good indispensably demands to be offered up as
a sacrifice to atone for the guilt of his father ? The
sons of Lepidus were the children of the sister of Bru-
tus* ^* Contra patrem Lepidum' Brutus avunculus," saya
he very naturally in his answer to Cicei'o.

An attempt has been likewise made to support the
law of forfeiture on the foundation of natural justice^ ^
" All property," says Sir William Blackstone,*^ " is de-
rived from society, being one of those civil ^ rights
which are conferred upon individuals, in exchange for
that degree of natural freedom, which every man must
sacrifice when he enters into social communities* If
therefore a member of any national community violates
the fundamental contract of his association, by transgress-

> 4. BL Com. 375. c 1. Bl Com. 399. d 4. Bi. Com. 9.v

(

I

LECTURES ON LAW^ 4.1

itjg the municipal law, he forfeits his right to such pri-
vileges as he claims by that contract ; and the state may
very justly resume that portion of property, or any part
, of it, which the laws have before assigned him. Hence
in every oflFence of aa atrocious kind, the laws of Eng-
land have exacted a total confiscation of the movables
or personal estate ; and in many cases a perpetual, in
others only a temporary, loss of the oiFender's immova-
bles or landed property ; and have vested them both in
the king, who is the person supposed to be offended,
being the only visible magistrate in whona the majesty
of the publick resides*"

It has often been said, that, at elections, the people
of England sell their liberty for their own money ; but
this, I presume, is the first time that this kind of ex-
change has been brought forward as a fundamental ar«
tide of their original contract.

A philosophising is, on some occasions, an unfoitu*
nate turn, ' It was, we are told, an opinion long re^'
ceived in China, that the globe of the earth was sup-
ported on the back of an elephant. The people were
satisfied and inquired no farther. An ingenious philo-
sopher, hovever, was not satisfied so easily. If the
earth, reasoned he, must be supported on the back of an
elephant, pari ratione^ the elephant must stand on the
back of something else. Exactly fitted for his design,
he found a broad backed tortoi£(e.. He placed the ele-
phant upon it, and published his new theory of the
manner in which the globe was supported. Unfortunate-
ly, the spirit of his ars philosophandi caught ; andhe was
asked — on whose back will you place the tortoise ? To
VOL. II r. «

/

44 I*£CTUA£8 ON LAW*

auctores ; nee ulteriua.progrediatur metus quam reperia- •

.tur delictum." '

A$ the punishment ought to be confined to the crimi-
nal ; so it ought to bear a proportion, it ought, if possible,
tq bear even an analogy, to the crime* ^ This is a prin^
ciple, the truth of which requires litde proof; but the
applicatiop of which requires much illustration.

" It is not only," says the Marquis of Beccaria, " the
common interest of mankind that crimes should not be
committed ; but it is their interest also that crimes of
every kind should be less frequent, in proportion to the
mischief which they produce in society* The means,
therefore, which the legislature use to prevent crimes
should be more powerful in pi;oportion as they are de«
stjructive of the publick safety and happiness* Therefore
there ought to be a fixed proportion between punishments
and crimes." ^^ A scale of crimes," adds he,, ^^may be
formed, of which the first degree should consist of such
as tend immediately to the dissolution of society ; and the
last, of the smallest possible injustice done to a private
member of that society." ^

To a scale of crimes, a corresponding scale of punish,
ments should be added^ each of which ought to be modi^
fied, as far as possible, according to the nature, the kind,
and the degree of the. crime, to which it is annexed* To
select, where it can be done, a punishment analogous to
the crime, is an excellent method to strengthen that as-
sociation of ideas, which it is very important to establish
between them.

I

*Eden.49. i Id.83. k Bee c* 6. p. ir. 19.

LECTURES OH LAW.
In the graduation. of .each of these scales, and in the
relative adjust^ept betuv^^n thexo, aperfect ax:curacy is
unquestionably unattainable. The different shades both
of crinxes and of punishments are so numerous, and run
so mupK into one smother., that it; is impossible' for human
skU.to n^ark themy in every instance, distinctly aiid cor-
recdy. How many intervening degrees of criminality are
there between a larcei^y of- the petty kind and a robbery
committed^ with every degree of personal insult and out-
rage — ^betwe^n a private slander and a publick inflamma-
tory libel-rrbetween a simple menace and a premeditated
murder— between an unfounded mnrmur and a daring
rebellion against the government ?

But though every thing cannot, much may be done. If
Si complete detail cannot be accomplished ; certain lead-
ing rules, may be established : if every minute grade can-
not be precisely ascertained; yet the principal ^divisions
may be marked by wise and sagacious legislation. Crimes
and punishments too may be distributed into their proper
classes ; and the general principles of proportion and ana-
logy may be maiiitained without any gross or flagrant^
violation.

To maintain them is a matter of the first moment in
criminal jurisprudence. Every citizen ought to know
when he is guilty ; every citizen ought to know, as far as
possible, the degree of his guilt. This knowledge is as
necessary to regulate the verdicts of jurors and the deci-
sions of judges } as it is to regulate the conduct of citizens.
This knowledge ought certainly to be in the possession of
those who make laws to regulate all.

46 XfLcrtJKtn on law*

^ dpttmn est lex,** sajrs my L<»rd Bacon, ^ qu» mini*
laxxttk relinqoit arbitrio jadicis.^ ^ tf this is true with
tegkrd to law in general ; it must be ir^iy true, and very
important too, with regard to die law of crinres and
imnishments. What kind of legislation must that have
been, by which **not only ignorant and rude unlearned
people, but also learned and expert people, minding ho-
nesty, were often and niany times trapped and snared I"
Tet such is the character of the criminsd legislation under
Henry the eighth, given by the first padiament assembled
in the reign of his daughter Mary ; * which could weH
describe, for it still smarted under the legislative rod*
The candour J at least, of legislation should be invio-
lable.

^ Misera est servitus, uM jus est incognitum.'^ When
a citizen first knows the law from the jury who con-
vict, or from the judges who condemn him ; it appears
as if his life and his liberty were laid prostrate before a
new and arbitrary power ; and the sense of general safe-
ty, so necessary to the enjoy ment of generd happiness,
is weakened or destroyed. But a law uncertain is, so
far, a law unknown. To punish by a law indefinite and
unintelligible ! — Is it better, than to punish without any
law?

A laudable, though, perhaps, an improvable degree
of accuracy has been attained by the common law^ in its-
descriptions of crimes and punishments. On this subject,
I now enter into a particular detsdl. To the description
of each crime, I shall sutgqin that of its punishment ; and

V

> l.L^ Bac S4t. » St 1. Mary, c 1>

LKGTVBM OK LAW.
shall mention, as I proceed, the alterations introduced by
the constitution and laws of the United States and of
Pennsylvania. The laws of other nations will frequently
be considered in gL comparative view*

L

> I

«

CHAPTER IL

or CRIMES AGAIKST THE RIGHT OV INDIVIDUALS TO

THEIR PROPERTY.

JlLi very crime includes an inj ury : every inj ury includes
a violation of a rig^t. The investigations, which we have
hitherto made concerning rights, will dir^ect our course
in that which we are now to make concerning wnusigs*

I assumed, though, for the reasons assigned, I have
not yet proved, that a man has a right to his property.
I begin my Enumeration of crimes with those which,
infringe this right. n

I have observed that every ihjurious violation, of our
rights, natural and civil, absolute ^d relative, maifl^y
the foundation of a crime, a I did not mean, however,
to insinuate, by this observation,' that every injury ought
"to be considered by the law in a criminal point of view.

TOL. III./

• Ante, p. 28.

50 LECTURES OK LAW.

For every injury let reparation be made by the civil code,
in proportion to the loss sustained ; but let those injuries
alone, which become formidable to society by their intrin-
sick atrocity, or by their dangerous example, be resented
by society and prosecuted as crimes. Agreeably to this
principle, a private injury done without actual violence,
cannot be prosecuted by an indictment. ^ It is not con-
sidered as affecting the cbmmniiity.

This principle, however, seems to have gained its full
establishment only by the liberality of modem times.-
It is remarkable, that a law made on this liberal prin-
ciple, in an early peripd' of Pennsylvania, was repealed
by the king in council. ^ But this is not the only instance,
in which the improving spirit of our legislation has been
at first checked, but has received subsequent counte*
nance by late decisions in England.

With the enjo3nnent and security of property, Ae,
security and the authenticity of its evidences is intimatety
connected. For this reason, dangerous- a^d deliberate
attacks upon that security or authenticity are crimes by
the common law.

Forgery, at the common law, may be described ^ the
jfraudulent making or alteration of a writing, to the pre-
judice of another man's right,'* For this crime, the
punishmenit of fine, imprisonment, and pillory may^
by the common law, be inflicted on die criminal. <i

>> 3. Burr. 1703. 17S3. «^ R. 0. book A. toL 1. p, 14^

^ 4. Bl. Com. 345.

LECTURES ON LAW. 51

Among the Egyptians, publick notaries, .who forged
false deeds, or whb suppressed or added any thing to
the writings, which Aey had received to copy, were
condemned to lose both their hands. They were punished
in that p£)rt, which had been particularly instrumental in
^e crime. « In Lorrain, so long ago as the fourteenth
century, foi^ery wais punished with banishment.

The first act of parliament, which appears against it,
ifras made in the reign of Henry the fifth. This act
punishes it by satisfaction to the party injured, and by a
fine to the king.<^- But this first statute has been the
fruitful mother of a thousand more. True it is, that the
increase of commei^ce, the invention of . negotiable and
even current paper, the institution of national funds, and
th& many complex securities and evidences of real pro-
perty have J4istly rendered the crime of forgery, beside
its intrinsick baseness— -for it is a species of the crimen

~Jaisi-^-^2L consideration of great i^iportance and extent.
But is it equally true, that all this is a sufficient reason,

*why, in almost all cases possible to be conceived, every
forgery, which tends to defraud, either in the name of a
real or of a fictitious person, should be made, as in England
it is now made, a capital crime ?h '^ Ptuet super popu-
^ lum laqueos." There is a learned civilian, says my Lord
Bacon, who expounds this curse of the prophet, of a

' multitude of penal laws ; which are worse than showers
of hail or tempest upon cattle ; for they fall upon
^ men. I

By a law of Pennsylvania, whoever shall forge, deface,
eorrupt, or embezzle deeds and other instruments of

« 1. Gog, Or. L. 59. ^ Bar. on St 380.^ » Id. ib.

! k 4. BL Com. 247. ^ 4.Ld. Bac 3.
LBfiTUR£S OK hAW*

writings shall forfeit double the vaju^ of the damt^ susi*
tatiied, oBe half of which shall go to the party mjured »
and shall in the pilloiy, or otherwise, be disgraced as a
false person. J.

B/ a law of the United States it is enacted, that -if
any person shall falsely make, alter, forge, or counfer*
feit, or cause or procure to be falsely made, altered,
forged, or counterfeited, or willingly act or assist in the
false makings altering, forging, or counterfeiting any
certificate, indent, or other publick security of the United
States; or shall utter, puto£[, or offer, or cajase to be
uttered, put off, or offered in payq^ent or for sale^ any
9uch false, forged, altered, or counterfeited certificate*
indent, or other publick security, with intent to defraud
any person, knowing the same to.be false, altered, fot*
ged, or counterfeited, and shall be there<^ convicted ^
every such person shall suffer death* ^

To fprge^ says my I^ord Coke, i^ metaphoricatty taken
from the smith, who beateth upon his anvil^ and forg^h
what fashion or shape he will* > The offence is called
crimen faki^ and the offender faharivA: and the Latin
word to forge is fakare.ov fahricare. And this is pror
perly taken when the act is done in the name of another
person* * " Falsely to make,?^ says he, are larger words
than " to forge ;" for one .may make a false writing withi>
in this act (he speaks of the 5th. £li£« c* 14. in which,
as to the present point, the words' used are substantially
the same with the words of the law now under consi-i

j 1. Laws Peniu 5« "

^ Laws U. S. 1. cong. 3. seas, c 9. s. 14. i 3. Ins. 169.

LECTVJtSS ON LAW. 53

deration) though it be not forged in the nam^ of another,
nor his seal nor hand counterfeited. As if a man^ make
a true deed of fec^ment under his hand and seal of
the manor of Dale unto B. ; and B. or some other rase
out D and put in S, and then. when the true deed was of'
the manor of Dale, now it is falsely altered and made, the
manor of Sale ; this is a false writing within the purview
of the statute. "

I .

Another crime against the i;ight of property is larceny.
Larceny isdescribed— 'the felonious and fraudulent taking
and carrying away of the personal goods of another. "
The Mirrour describes the crime as committed, "trea-
cherousement." " More indictments are to be found for
larceny, among the records of England, than for all the
other crimes known to the law. It is computed that
nineteen criminals out of twenty are prosecuted for this
crime. ** ^

According as the opinions and sentiments of men con-
cerning property have been more or less correct, their
notions concerning larceny have been, more or le«3 pure;
Indeed, in the nature of things, this must be the case*
Theft, or the secret acquisition of property, was, at
Sparta, thought neither a crime nor a shame. Why ?
Because at 'Sparta, Lycurgus had established a commu-
nity of goods ; and when one got hold of a larger share
than his neighbours, especially among the young people,
it was considered merely as an instance of juvenile
address, and as indicating a superiour degree of future
dexterity. The senatorial order at Rome, we are told^

«n 3. Ins. 169. a Id. lOr. 4, Bl. Com. 23a

• C. 1. s. 10. 2. Reev. 42. p Bar. on St 443.

'54 LECTURES ON LAW.

enjoyed the distinguished privilege of being exempted
from every prosecution for larceny, q What is still more
remarkable, a/similar claim of privilege was/in the time
of Charles the second, insisted on by the hous^ of lords in
England, when a bill was sent to them from thecommons'
to punish — wood stealers !*" This anecdote we have on
the authoritj' of my Lord Clarendon, a peer, the chancel-
lor, and the speaker of the house of lords. '

Much has bqen said, in the English law books, con-
cerning the distinction between grand and petit larceny.
The distinction, howeverancient, was never founded upom
any rational principle ; and the farther it flowed from its
' original source, the more unreasonable and cruel it be-
came. Well might Sir Henry Spelman complain, that,
while every thing else became daily dearer, the life of a
man became more and more cheap. * But, what is more,
this distinction, irrational and really oppressive, appears
never to have been est^rblished with any degree of accu-
racy. The Author of' Fleta says, if a person steals the
value of twelve pence and more, he shall be punished
capitally. Britton, in one place, says, if it is twelve pence
or more. At this time, therefore — ^that is, in the reign
of Edward the first — ^it was unsettled whether twelve
pence was sufficient, or more than twelve pence was ne-
cessary, to superinduce the capital punishment. ' A simi-
lar diversity and uncertainty of opinion appears m the
reign of Edward the third. *

In the description of larceny, the taking is an essential
part. For every felony includes a trespass ; and if the

s Bar. on St 491. «• Id. ibid. » 4. Bl. Com. 23?..

^ 1. Reev. 485. « 3. Reev. 304»

LSGTU&E9 ON LAW* / 55

person is guilty of no trespass in taking the goods, he can .
be guilty of no felony in carrying them away. ^ This is
precisely the law language, conveying the doctrine, which
I have illustrated gener&Uy and fully — that, without an •'
injury, .there can be no crime. A real trespass must be
committed ; but a real trespass will not be covered or
excused by any artful stratagem to prevent the appearance
of it. If one, who intends to steal the goods of another,
obtains, with that intention, the process of the law to get
them into his possession, in a manner apparently legal ;
this contrivance'-^-an abuse of the law — will not excuse
him from a charge of a felonious taking, w '

«

To a larceny it is as necessary that the goods be carried
away, as that they be taken. But the least removal of the
goods is sufficient to satisfy this part of the description.
To remove them from one place to another, even in the
aame room, is, in legal understanding, to carry them away«
One, who intended to steal plate, took it out of a trunk,
^and laid it upon the floor, but was surprised before he
could do more ; he was adjudged guilty of larceny, i

The taking and carrying away, says Sir William Black-
Atpne, and very truly, must also hefehniousj that is, done
animo furandi. This, by the way, is a clear and decided
instance, that, in the meaning of the common law, felony
is referred to the intention, and not to the event. As we
saw in the former part of the description, that the crime
ix>uld not exist without the injury ; we see now, that the
injury will not constitute the crime without the criminal
intention. For, as the Author of the Commentaries next

^ 1. Haw. 89. kel. 34. ^ 1. Haw. 9Q.

jt Kel. 31. 1. Haw. 93.

« ■<

^6 LKCTVRES Oil LAW.

observes, this requisite indemnifies mere trespassers, and.
other petty offenders. ^

' The last part of the description of larceny at the com-
mon law is, that the goods must be personal. Land, or
any thing that is adhering to the soil or to the freehold,
cannot in one transaction be made the subject of larceny.
But if any thing of this kind is, at one tinie, separated
from the freehold, so as to become a chattel ; and is, at
another time, taken and carried away ; larceily. is now
committed, x

In different nations, and in the same nation at different
times, larceny or theft has received very different punish-
ments. It would be tedious minutely to recite them^ On
no subject has there been more fluctuation in the criminal
laws both of Greece and Rome. Seldom, however, was
larceny punished capitally at Athens ; never among the
Romans. In the early part of the Anglo-'Saxbn period
in England, theft of the worst kind did not expose ihe
thief to any corporal punishment. But the compensation
which he was obliged by law to make, rendered larceny
a very unprofitable business when it was detected. Ina,
the king of Wessex, declared stealing to be a capitiA
crime ; but allowed the offender or his friends to redeem
his life, by paying the price at which it was valued by
the law.*

The distinction between punishing tJieft as a crime;
and exactinjg compensation for it as an injury, is strongly
marked in a law^of Howdl Dha, the celebrated-legislator
of Wales : *' If a thief is condemned to death, he shall

7 4, BL Coai. 232. « 1. Haw. 93. « ^.Henry 290.

\

u:cTua£s on law. S7

not suffer in his goods; for it 'is unreasonable both to
exact compensation^ and to inflict punishment.^'

In the ninth year of Henry the first, larceny above the
value of twelve pence was, in England, made a capital
crime, and continues so to this day ; and, in a i^ast num-
ber of instances, it is, by modem statutes,'deprived of the
benefit of clergy. These statutes, says Mr. Eden, are so
complicated in their limitations, and so intricate in their
distinctions, that it would be painful, on many accounts,
to attempt the detail of thetn. It is a melancholy truth,
but it may, without exaggeration, be asserted, that, ex-
clusive of those who are obliged by their profession to be
conversant in the niceties of the law, there are not ten
subjects in England, who have any clear conception, of
the several san^inary restrictions, to which, on this point;
they are made liable. ^

By a law of the United States, larceny is punished
with a fine not exceeding the fourfold value of the pro-
perty stolen, and with publick whipping not exceeding
thirty nine stripes.^ .In Pennsylvania, a person coivvicted
of larceny to the value of twenty shillings and upwards,
shall restore the goods or pay their value to the owner,
shall also forfeit to the commonwealth the value of the
goods, shall undergo a servitude for any term not exceed-
ing three years, and shall be confined and kept to hard
labour : a person convicted of larceny undertwenty ^hil-
lings, shall restore the goods or pay their value to the
owner, shall forfeit the same value to the commonwealth,

^ Eden. 289. « Laws U. S. 1. cong. 3. $ess. c. 9. s. 16.

vol. m. T

_Lj4

Hhall unf€terg«6 ^ i^erVitnd^ hat exceeding one year^ nnd
shall be confitk^d and lept ter hand !abt»ur. ^

r

Forgery and larceny seem to be the only crimes
against thfe righ% df private propeHy kiiown tb the com^
xHon law.

Robbery is getfeirsdly clftdsedamoiig the cif^med against
the right of private property j bn« somewhat improperfy^
in ifcy opinion* Robbery receives Ife deep dye froih ont^
rage committed ck\, the person ; bnt as property also
enters into the dcscri^tfon of thh crime,- I shaH eonsi-^
derit htere.

Robberyv at ^S^ coihihtni Xiiir^ is a riolent ahd ftloni*
jdus taMiig from the perfeon of aftbttier, of mcNley ttr
goods to any value, patting him ill fear, e Ft^bte iMs
description it appears, that, to constitute a robbery, the
three following ihgredieiits ^e i^ispensable : I-, a felo-
nidiis tnHention', <^r aniniiis fUrdhdi. 2; Some dfe^^riefe lof
Violence khd putting iti feaft*. d. A taking- frbitt the |*i--
son 6f acidtheh

1. There muist be a Moi^iis iiit^htidil t^ s^ttt : li#^
ceiiy is a iSefceiSsaiy^ though By no means the ^o^ ito*
portarit ihgreidtieht, wllieh enters into the cdmpd^itibh df
a robbery. The circumst&tices #hich are ealcukft^d dgtfd
prowler to evinii^e this felonious ihtentidn^ it is iflipbtoiUe.
to describe or rijcouht : "they inliflt, iii this ^ as ih cM^r
crimes, be left to the attentive consider^lbh ctf ih^^;
by whom the person accused is tried* The value, how-
ever, of the property on which the larceny is committed^

d 3. Laws, Penn. 803. s. 3. 4. • 3. Ins. 66. 1, Haw. 95.

L£CTirR£8 qv LAW. ' ^

is, as to the rob|t>ery, totally ipima.terial. In j^his respect,
a penny is equivalent to a pound. ^

2. There must b^ sonie 4^g)^>^^ oi v^ql^nce and put-
ting in fear. Tt^is indeed is the cfiaracteristick circum-
stance, which di^iggujshes robbery from other larcenies.
If one :^ssai(Llt another Jijrith such (circumstances of terrour
as put hiin in fear, and h^, m consequence of this fear,
ddivejr hi^ mo.ney ; this is a sufficient degree p( violence ^
for he w.^ pu|t in fear by U^e assault ; and gave his mo-
ney to escape ti(>€ d.ai^gef^ ^ To constitute a rpbbery, it
is sui^cient ^,at tthe f<^rce used be such as might create

• ■ «

%n apprehension pf danger, or oblige one to part with
his property against his consent. Thus, if a man be
knocked down without any previous warning, and strip-
ped of bis money whiJLe he lies senseless ; this^ though
he jcfumot stricitly be said to be put in fearj is undoubt-
edly a ?robbcry. ^

3. There must be a taking from the person of another.
The thief musjt be jn the possession of the thin^ stolen.
if he go even so far as to cut the girdle, by which a
purse hangs, so that it fall to the ground ; yet if he do
not tgke it .uP) he has not completed the robbery, because
^e purse was not in his possession. ' The taking must
l>e fropa the person ; but this part of the description is
answered, not only by taking the money out of one^s
pocket, or forcing from him the horse on which he ac-
tually rides, but by taking from him, openly and before
his face, any thing which is under his immediate and
persjw»?i care j^^ j>r<j^.€i^B. If xy^^ wigjung to ^ve

^S. I»s. 69, 8 L Haw. ^, 9T,

^ Post. 128* 4. 'BL Com. 542. » d. Ins. 69.

/

60 LECTURES OK ZAVT.

his money, throw it into a bush, and the thief take it up ;
this is a taking from the person. ^

We are told by Mr. Selden, that, before! the conquest,
robbery was punished diflFerently, by the different na-
tions who came from the continent of Europe. By the
Saxons, it was punished with death : by the Angles, and
by the Danes, it was punished only with fine. ^ After
the conquest, these different laws were settled by the
Normans' in the more merciful way ; and if the delin-
quent fled, his pledge satisfied the law for him. But ia
the times of Henry the first, the law was again reduced
to the punishment of this crime by death : and so it has
continued ever since. ' '

r

In the ancient laws of Wales, it is expressly declared,
that robbery shall never be punished with death ; *' be-
cause (say these laws) it is a sufficient satisfaction for
this crime, if the goods taken be restored, and a fine
paid to the person from whom they were t^ken, accord-
ing to his station, for the violence offered him, and ano-
ther to the king for the breach of the peace." "

Robbery, by a law of the United States, is punished
capitally. ^ By a law of Pennsylvania, a person convicted
of robbery forfeits to the commonwealth his lands and
goods, and undergoes a servitude not exceeding ten years,
in the gaol or house of correction. ^

i 3. Ins. 69. 1. Hair. 96. k Bac on Gov. 63. ' Id. 88.
« 2. Henry 392. " Laws U, S. 1. con. 2. sess. c. 9. s. ft

« 3; Laws Penn. 802. a. 8.

/

LSCTURES ON LAW* 61

I proceed now to the consideration of two other crimet
at the common law, which, though property, as in the
case of robbery, enters into their description, yet receive
their deep dye frpm outrag)es*Ugainst personal security.
This cannot be enjoyed without a legal gyard around the
residence qf the person.

^' A man's house is his cattle" was the expreveion, in
times rude and boisterous, when the idea of security was
found only on its association with the idea of strength ;
and in such times, no expression mor^ emphatical could
have been used. In happier times, when the blessings
of peace and law are expected and due— r-in such times,
a man's house is entitled to an appellation more emphatick
still*— in such times, a man's house is his sanctuary »
** Quid enim sanctius, quid omni religione munitius,
quam domus uniuscuj usque civium ?" ^ Into this sanctua-
ry, the law herself, unless upon the most urgent emer«
gencies, presumes not to look or enter. We have seen,
on many occasions, with what a delicate-- *I may addt
with what a respectful — ^reserve, she treats the near and
dear domestick connexions. We may well suppose, that
she will guard, with peculiar vigilance, the favoured
spot in which a family reside. Even those who endea*
vour clandestinely to pry into its recesses — such are ^
eaves-droppers — ^receive her reprehension : and unless
the peace or security of the publick require it, she will
not suffer its doors to- be broken, to execute even her
own imperial mandates. When she thus solicitous-*
-ly protects the residence of a family from inferiour

insults, we may rely, that she will zealously defend

f

p Cic. prodomtf41. «i 4. BL Com. 169.

i

6B LECTURES ON LAW*

it from atrocious crimes. Such are arson and bur*

. Arson is a felony at common lav, in maliciously and
voluntarily burning the house of another. '^ This is not
intended merely of the dwelling bous^ itself, butei^tends.
to the outhouses ; as the bam, the stable, the cow house,
tike dairy faonse, the mill hous^i tk^ «]^p k<^w^ i which
are parcel <^ the mimsioA bouse. " ,

This crime may be committed by wJUuUy burning
OQ^'s own house, if the house of another is also burnt ;
but if no mischief is done to that of another, it is not
felony, chough the fire was kindled with an intenticm to
b^rn the house of that other. ' But if the intenti^ is to
bum tiie house of another person, and by the burning of
this the house of a third person is also burned; the
burning of the house of this third person is felony ; be-*
pause the pernicious event shall be coupled with the fe»
kmious inteation.^

Neither the mere intention to bum a house, nor even
an actual attempt to hum it, by puitting fire to it, will,
if ao part of it be burnt, amount to felony; but if ^ly
part of the house be burnt, it is ax!Son> tj^oiugfci the fire
alterwards go out of itself, or be esDtingu-ished.^ No
misfortune, nor ev^en culpable aaiegligence or imprudence,
will amount to arson : it must be voluntary and mali-
cious. A person, by shooting with a gun, set fire to
tlie roof of a house ; this was determined not to be
felony. ^ /

r 3. Ins. 66. l.Haw. 105. g 3. Ins. 62;. ' Cro.Car. 376.
• 3. Ins. 6^ 1. Haw. 106. w i. Hale. P. C. 569.

LECTURE9 ON LAW* 6i

Arson is a crime of deep malignity. The object of
other feloniep against the right to property, is mtrely to
.give it a new' master ; the object of arson is to destroy
it — ^to lose it to society, as well as to its owner. The
confusion 'and terrour which attend arson, and tht; Con«
tinned apprehension which follows it, are mischiefs
frequently more distressing than even the -loss of thfc
property.

The crime of arson wiM oire of the very few ptmished
capit&lly by the Saxon law. In tlte reign of EdWard the
first, those who perpetrated this crime wei*e burtit, that
they might suffer in the same mamter, in which they
had been criminal. ^ This crime is also one of the
very few still pUhished capitally in Pennsylvania. ^ *

Burglary is a felony at the common law, in breaking
and entering, by night, the mansion house of another,
with intent to commit a felony. *

There have been some opinions, that this crime, on
a construction of the piirase " by night," may be com-
mitted at any time after the setting and before the rising
of the sun ; because the day was deemtjd to begin at the
end, and to end at the beginning of those times ; but
the later and better opinion is, that if there be day light
enough to discern the countenance of a man when the
crime is committed, it cannot amount to a burglary. ^

X 1. Reev.485. y 1. Laws. Pcnn. 187.476.

I * By an act of assembly passed 22d April, 1794, arson is punish-
ed by imprisonment at hard labout*, for a period not less than five,
nor mote thian twelvtj ye:rs. 3. Laws. Penn. eOa JSd,

a 3. Ins. 63. 1. Haw. 101. * 1. Haw. 101. '

64 , LECTURES OV LAW.

To a burglary.it is necessary, that the house be both
broken and entered. The breaking must be actual, and
not merely such as the law implies in every unlawful
entry on the possession of another. To open a window ;
to unlock the door ; to break a hole in the wall ; to enter
an open door and unlatch a chamber door ; to Qome down
the chimney ; to knock at the door and I'ush in when it is
opened ; to gain admittance by an abuse of legal process^
or by the means of a conspiring servant ; all these are
actual breaches* The least degree of entry with a|iy part
of the body, or with an instrument held in, the hand, or
even a load discharged from a gun, is sufficient to saiisfj
that entry, which the law deems necessary to constitute
the crime of burglary. ^

In a dwelling house only burglary can be committed.
But a house in which one sometimes resides, and has left
with an intention to return ; a house which one has hired,
and into which he has brought part of his goods, though
he has not lodged in it ; a chamber in a college ; a room
pccupied in a private house by a lodger ; the out houses
adjoining to the principal house ; all* these are mansion
houses within the meaning of the law. ^ A shop may be
parcel of a mansion house ; but if it is severed by a lease
to one who works in it by day only^ and does not lodge in
it, it is not burglary to break and enter it in the night
time.

To a burglary, an intention to commit some felony,

I land not merely a trespass, is indispensable ; but, as was

.shown on another occasion, it is not necessary that the

< 1. Haw. 103. ^ 3. Ins. 64. 1. Haw. 103. 104. 4. B).CoTn. 326.
c Wood. Ins. 389. f Anti^ p. 36.

tECTtJRES ON LAW.
felony intended be committed; and it is immaterial*
whether that felony be by common or by statute law. *

By the law of Athens, burglary was a capital crime* ^^
Among the Saxons also, burgessours were to be punished
with death. * In Pennsylvania, burglary and robbery re-
ceive precisely the same punishment.^ The punishment
for robbery has been already mentioned.

9 4. BL Com. 327.
» 1. Reev. 485,

^ 1, Pot Ant c. 26.

J 2. Laws. Pent). 802. s. 2.

vol.. in.

CHAPTER itL

«F CRIH£8 AGAINST THE KIGHT OF INDIVIDUALS TO
LIBERTY, AND TO REPUTATION.

X^IBERTY, as we have seen on former occasions, is
one of the natural rights of man ; and one of the most
important of those natural rights* This right, as well
as others, may be violated ; and its violations, lice those
of other rights, ought to be punished, in order to be
prevented. Yet these violatio|is are scarcely discernible
in our code of criminal law.

This we must ascribe to one of two causes. Either
this right has been enjoyed inviolably : or the law has
suffered the violations of it to escape with shameful im-
punity. The latter is the truth : I am compelled to add,
that the latter, bad as it is, is not the whole truth. Vio-
latibns of liberty have not only been overlooked : they
have also been protected ; they have also been encouraged t
they have also beei^ made ; they have also been enjoined

68 LECTV&ES OV I.AW.

bjr the law. I speadc diis not onlj conceniiag the statute
hm; I am compeUed to speak it also cODcemtiig the
common law of Englaifd : I speak^hb not only concern-
ing the law as it was receiFed in the American Stales
before their revolution ; I am compeUed .to speak it also
concerning the law as it is received in them still : I speak
this not only concerning the law as it is received genersBy
in the other sister states ; I akn compelled to speak it
also concerning the law as it is received in Pennsylvania :
nay, I am farther compeUed to speak it also of the law
as it is recently received m our aatianal govemmei^

Our publiek liberty we have indeed secured ;-
pcrpetua — But, notwithstanding aU our boasted improve-
ments — and ihey are improvements of which we majr
weU boast — die most formidable enemy io prifoate liberty
is, at this moment, the law of the land.

In some former parts of my lectures, ' I have had
occasion to remark, and I have remarked with pleasure
that solicitous degree of attention which the law gives to
personal security* Its most distant avenues are nMch-
fully guarded. To decide questions, by which it may
be affected in the highest, or even in inferiour degrees,
I have shown, in a sublime part of our system, to be the
incommunicable prerogative of sovereignty or selected
, sovereignty itself. I have shown, that, by an operation
inexpressibly fine, personal safety never sees the arm
which holds the sword of justice, but at die moment
when it is found necessary that its stroke should be made.
Inferiour to personal safety only, if indeed inferiour
even to that, is the ccmsideration of personal liberty.

aAnte. voL i p. 314. et.seq:

LI&€Tn]tES OK LAW. 69

And yet, vhite personal safety can be authoritatively ,

aiFected only by the community, or a body selected from

theconHAunity impartially and for the occasion, the law

iaa^icitly, canteletaly, unconditionally, and continual^'

prostrates personal liberty at the feet of every wretch

who is unprincipled enough to trample upon it. I say,

unprincipted ; because a citizen, who has principle,

will not wound it by using the authority of the law. In

eveiry state of the union-— in every countf' of every state,

there are shops opened, nay licensed, nay establidied by

the law, at which its authority may be purchased, for a

trifle, by the worst citizen, in order to infringe the per«

sonal .liberty of "ihe best.

From the disgrace of these enormities against this
rightts of liberty, I gladly rescue the character and prin-
ciples of the common law. The history of the several
processes of capias, and orders and rules of commitment
wtfl show, when We come to it, that this part of our
munisipal law is of statute original ; and that it Was pro«
ducedinthe darkest and rudest, though its existence has
Continued in the mxyst enlightened and the most refined
tiiaes.

With another part of these enormities against the
lights of liberty, however, impartiality obliges me to
. chat^ge the common law'* Man is composed of a soul
and ot a body. To mental as Well as to bodily freedom,
he has a natural and an. unquestionable right* The for*
mer was grossly violated by the common htw. Witness
Ae many overgrown tidies, by which the volumes of the
law are atill distended : witness, in particular, the cus-
toms de modo decimandi, and the writs d6 excommunicato
i

f(y LECTURES Oir LAW.

• ' - I

capiendo and de he^etieo annburendo*^ These paru I on*
ly mention ; .because from these parts wtc are happilr xe-
lieved : they are parts of the common law, which did
, not suit those who emigrated to America: tkesf were^*
therefore, left behind them.

' But, in some respects, private liberty is still the oi^
phan neglected ; in others, she is still the Victim devoted
by our municipal law. So inveterate, indeed, is the
vice of the law in this particular, tint it has infected
its very language. The terms,' which denote the dtmi-
[^ " nutiQn of the destruction of personal safety*^— homic^die,

wounding, battery, assault-— -are all prima facie under*
stood in an unfavourable meaning; though they are some*
times excused, or justified, or even enjoined, as well as
sometimes prohibited and punished \xf the law : but to
imprisonment, the idea of legal auAorily seems, in le»
gal understanding, to be prima faxit annexed : and when
it speaks of the unauthorized kind, it is <Miged to dis«
languish it by adding the epithets ^oi^^ or tmkmfuL

But legislators should bear in their minds, and should
practically observe — and well persuaded I am, that our
American legislators bear in their minds, and, whenever
the necessary resettlement of tilings after a revolution
can possibly admit of it, will practtcally observe, with
regard to this interesting subject-^the foUowii^ great
and important political maxim :--^ very wanton, orctu:»«r
less, or unnecessary act of authority, exerted, or autbo*-
rized, or encouraged by the legislature over the ciMzena,
is wrong, and unjiistifiaUe, and tyrannical: for eve/f
citizen is, of right, entitled to liberty, pexaoBal as we|t

^4.BLCoiai'4€.

LECTURJBS ON LAW* 71

as mental) in theliigheis^ poaaiUe diegtree^ vhkh can con-
sist vith the safety and wslfare of the state. ^^ Legum"
—•I repeat it—" servi sumus, ut Isberi esse possimus.'*
In die course of my future investigaticois into this point,
I shall be able to evince, in the dealest manner, that our
monicifkal regulations concerning it are not less hostile to
lite tvae principles of utility, than they are to those of
th^superiour law of liberty.

t

- I . •

Harving made these preliminary observations on a sub-
ject, wUch so greatly needs, and so richly deserves them,
I piroceed to search the little that is said in some of our
systems of criminal law-^in others nothing is said— -con-
cerning it.

False imprisonment is punishable. by indictment, like
assa^ilts and batteries ;,aiKl the delinquent may be fined
and imprisoned.^

Thus much concerning the crime of violating the
personal liberty of man.

Reputation, except that of official characters, seems
not, of late times, any. more than p^sonal liberty, to
have attracted the distinguished regard of our publick
taw : and even when it deigns a Uttle degree of regard
to it, that regard flows from a wrong principle, and is
referi*ed to a wrong end. Libels are considered as ob-
jects of pttUfck cognizance, not because the character,
but becanse the tranquillity of the citizens is precious to
^e publick \ and there^e, crimes of this nature arc
classed and prosecuted and punished as breaches of the

"^ 4 Bi Com. 319. 2. Haw. 90.

T9 LBCTOaM OM LAW*

p^aoe, and as much rcaeflofadiikg cbidltiiges to figlit. "^ But
it waa not alva]rs so*

^ I ssudy on a fonner occasion^ ^ thatrobbeiy llaelf do«tt
not flow from a fountam more rankly poiaoned^ than that
which throws oat the' Waters of calumny and defMAataon*
In sayihg so, I was warranted by authority respectable
and ancient. *By the laws of the Saxons, the Moa, who
robbed, was punished less severety than the wretch who
csdunmiated* By a law, made, towards the end of the
seventh century, by Lothere, one of the kings of Kent,
a calumniator was obliged to pay one shilling to him id
whose house- or lands he uttered the cfdnmny. It was
conceived, it seetns, to diffuse a degree of contamina-
tion over things inanimate. He was obliged to pay six
shillings to the person wlxmi he caltHuaiated, mai twelve
shillings to the king* When we recollect, that, long o^er
this time, a shillitig could purchase a fatted ox ; we may
judge concerning the light, in which defamaticm was
viewed at this time. But Edgar the peaceable, who
flourished about two centuries afterwards, made, against
this crime, a law much more severe : it decreed, that
a person convicted of gross and dangerous defamation
iriiould have has tongue cut out, ual^aa' he redeemed it
by paying his full tvrrr, as it waacaUcd, or the price of
his life* This law was confirmed by Caautei the great/

By the laws of Egypt, a defamer waa coBdemned t^
the same punishment, which would have been.mflicted
on the defamed, if the defamation had been; tirue»^ Skdo^,
in one of his laws, ordained, that a defiaqueat in shmder

*^ 4. BL Com. 150. « VoL 2. p. 472.

^2. Henry. S9S. si C^. Or. L. 58.

LECTURES ON LAW. 75

iliould make reparation in money to the party injured ;
and should also pay a fine into the publick treasury. ^

A libel may be described-— a malicious defamation of
any person, published by writing, or printing, or signs, or
pictures, and tending to expose him to pu^ick hatred,
contempt, or ridicule. ' It is clearly a crime at the com-
mon law. i

\

It has been often observed in the course of these!
lectures, that one extreme naturally produces its opposite^
An unwarrantable attempt made in the star chamber,
during the reign of James the iirst, to wrest the law of
libels to the purposes of ministers, and an effort continued
ever since to carry that attempt into execution, and even
to go beyond some of its worst principles, have, in Eng-
land, lost to the community the benefits of that law, wise
and salutary when administered properly, andby thepro-
per persons. The decision in that case has ever since been
considered, in England^ as the foundation of the law ou
this subject. It will be proper, therefore, to examine tho
parts of that decision with some degree of minuteness.

The libel, prosecuted and condemned, was a ^atf rital
ballad on a deceased archbishop of Canterbury and his
living successour.^

The first resolution is, that a libel against a magis-
trate, or other publick person, is a greater offence than
one against a private man.. This, in the unqualified man-
ner here expressed, cannot be rationally admitted. Oth^r

t 1. Pot. Ant 179, » 1. Haw. 193.

i 3. Ins. 174. * k ^^R^p, 135 g^

VOL. III. 1*

r4 tccTVE^ on.u^Wm

circumstances being equalt that of oficc ought to mcUiie
the beam, if the libel refer to bis official character or
conduct ; because an officer is a citizen and more* But
a libel of one kind against a private citizen, maj certainly
be more atrocious, and of example more atrociously evil^
than a libel of another kind against a piublick oftcer.

Apother and a more important resolution in that
is«— that it is immaterial whether the libel be false or true..
This resohition is clearly extrajudicial, because it ap*
pears, from the state of the case, that the author of the
libel was proceeded against on his own confession. The
rule, however, has been followed by more modem deter*
minations; and reasons have been offered to support it
on the principles of law. The provocation and not the
falsity, says Sir William Blackstone, is the thing to be
punished criminally. In a civil action, he admits, a libel
must appear to be false as well as scandalous i for, if the
charge be true, the plaintiff has received no private injury^
and has no ground to demand a compensation for him*
self, whatever offence it may be against the publick peaeb 9
and, therefore, upon a civil action, tike truth of Mte>accis<%.
sation may be pleaded in bar of the suit. But in a crimi-
nal prosecution, the tendency which all libels, have to
create animosities, and to disturb the publick peace, is the
sole consideration of the law. ^

Upon this passage, I observe, in the first place« that

^ a Kbel is a violation of the right of character, and nyoc of

the right of perscHial safety. It is no wonder if the rea*

sonings on this crime are inaccurate, when its very princU

pie is mistaken. '

1 4. BL CloiQ. 150.

LECTURES ON LAW, 75

I observe, in the second place^ that these inaccurate
reasonings are attempted to be established by a gross in«
consistency. When they refer to the effecU of the libel,
they suppose the tendency to produce disturbances of the
peiice : when they refer to the ccmses of the libel, they
say to him who \& actuated by them — ^you ought, in a
settled government, to complain for every injury in the
ordinary course of law, and by no means to revenge
yoarself. " Why is not this advice given consistently,
to the pel^on provoked by the libel ? If he has received
an injury-— if on that injury a crime is superinduced ;
the law wHl repair the former, and punish the Uttp:
if no injury has been sustained, no foundation has been
laid for a ciime%

^ I observe, in the third place^ that Sir William Black«<
atone here seet&s not to have been sufficiently attentive
to a principle, which ^he properly subscribes in another
^avt of his Commentaries : ^ the crime includes an inju-
ly : every publick ofEence is also a private wrong, and
somewhat more: it aifects the individual, and it likewise
^ects the community.

The only points, it is said, to be considered in the
prosecution for a libel, are, first, the making or pub-
lishing of the book or writing : secondly, .whether the
matter be criminal. ^

On the last of th^se two points, a celebrated contro-
versy has subsisted between judges and juries; the former
claiming its decision as a question of law ; the latter
claiming it as a question of fact) or, at least, necessarily

» 5; Rep. 125 b. « 4. Bl. Com. 5. • Id. 151.

r6

LECTURES ON LAW.

involve^ in the decision of a question of fact. After
what I have said, in a former lecture, p concerning the
general duties and powers of juries, you will be at no
loss to know my sentiments on this controverted subject.
I only remark, at present, that if a libel be, as I think it
is, a crime against the right of reputation ; the trial on
a libel must be the trial of a character^ or some part of a
character. Of all questions, almost, which . can be pro-
posed, I think this the most remote^ from a question of
law.

#

The constitution of Pennsylvania has put this matter
upon an explicit footing, consonant, or nearly consonant
in my opinion, to the true priticiples of the common
law : ^^ in all indictments for libels, the jury shall have
a right to determine the law and the facts, under the
direction of the court, as in other cases.'^*

The punishment of a libel is a fine, or a fitle and cor«
poral punishment.'

"^ Vol. 2. p. 336. et seq. ^ Art 9. s. 7.

'l.Haw.l9i.

CHAPTER IV.

\

OY CKIMSS AGAINST THE RIGHT OF INDIVIDUALS TO

PERSONAL SAFETY.

I

I

X HE crimes which are next to be enumerated and con-
sidered are those against the right of personal safety. Ou
this subject, the common law has been peculiarly accurate
and attentive.

An assault is an attempt or oiFer, with force and vio-
lence, to do a corporal hurt to another ; as by striking at
nim ; by holding up the fist at him ; by pointing a pitch-
fork at him, if he be within its reach ; by presenting a
gun at him, if he be within th« distance to which it will
carry ; or by any other act of a similar kind,' done in an
angry and threatening manner* ^ An assault is violence
inchoate. *»

A battery is violence completed by beating another.
Any injury done to the person of a man, in an angry, or

» 1. Haw. 133. *» 3. BL Com. 120.
LECTURES ON LAW,

revengeful, or rude, or iasolent manner, as by touching
him in any manner, or by spitting in his face, is a battery
in the eye of the law. ^ In that eyCj^ the person of every
man is sacred : between the different (legrees of violence
it is impossible to draw aline : with great propriety, there-
fore, its very first degree is prohibited* ^

Wounding is a dangerous hurt given to another ; and
is an aggravated species of battery, e ^

These offences may unquestionably be considered a#
private injuries, for which compensation ought to be de-
creed to those who suffer them. But viewed in a publick
light, they are breaches of the publick peace : as such thej
may be prosecuted ; and as such they maj be punished.
The punishment is fine, or fine and imprisonment, f

A battery or an assault, violence or an offer of vio-
lence, is susceptible of deep criminality from the atrocious
intention, with which it id sometimes offered or done. An .
assault with a desi|;n to murder, to perpetrate the last
outrage upon the honour of the fair dex, or to commit
the crime which ought not to be even named — ^these are
instances of what I mention; in these instances, to a heavy
fine and imprisonment, it k usual to add the judgment of
the pillory, k

Assaults, batteries, and woundings may be sometimes
excused, and sometimes justified. The particular cases
in which this may be done^ will be explained with more

« 1. Haw. 134

d 3.BlCom.l20L

« Id. 12L

^ i. Haw. 134. 4; *BL Com. 317.

s 4. BL Com. 217.

LECTUREa ON LAW. 79

propriety, when we come to consider them aa private
injuries, and not as pi^blick offences.

I

Affrays are crimes against the personal safety of the
citizens ; for in their personal safety, their personal secu-
rity and peace are undoubtedly comprehended. An afiray
is a fighting of persons in a publick place, to the terrour
of the citizens. They are consideited as common nul«
dances. They may, and ought to be suppressed by every
person present ; and the law, as it gives authority, so it
, gives protection, to those who obey its authority in sup-
pressing them, and in apprehending such as are engagea
in them ; if by every person present ; then still more
strongly by the officers of peace and justice. ** In some
cases, there may be an affray, where there is no actual
violence; as where a man arms himself with dangerous
and unusual weapons, in such a manner, as wilt naturally
diffuse a terrour among the people. *

To challenge another, by word or letter, to fight a duel^
pr to be the messenger of such a challenge, or to provoke,
or even to endeavour to provoke, another to send sueh si
chaUenge, is a crime of a very high nature, and is severely
reprehended by the law *? duels are direct and insolent
contempts of the justice of the state. ^

Affrays are punished by fine and imprisonment, the
measure of which must be regulated by the circumstances
of the case. ^ For sending a challenge, the offenders
have been adjudged to pay a fine, to be imprisoned, td

,, 3. Ins. 158. 4. Bl. Com. 145. / 1. Haw. 135.

j 3. Int. 158. t if aw. 135. ^ 1. Haw. llC > 14. ibiil.

so LECTUaES OH LAW.

make a publick acknowledgment of their offence, and ta
be bound to their good behaviour.

It cannot have escaped your observation, with what a
judicious mixture of poignant contempt the common law
seasons its indignation against those, who are €o lost to
true sentiment as to deem it hcmourable to insult the
justice of their couBtry. They are not treated as crinu-
nals of dignity : they are considered in the very degraded
view of common nuisances : the putrid oiBds of the sham-
bles are viewed, as we shall see, in the same light.

I

Neither can it have escaped your observation, with
what a deep knowledge of human nature, the common law
traces and pursues duels to what is frequently their
cowardly as well as their cruel source. Many- are vain
and base enough to wish and aspire at that importance
which, in their perverted nodons, arises from being even
the second in a quarrel of this nature, who have not spirit
enough to face that danger, which arises from being the
first. Hence, often the officious an^ the insidious offend
of friendship, as it is called, on these occasions, by those
who, with hearts pusillanimous and malignant, inflame,
instead of endeavouring, as those possessed of bravery
and humanity would endeavour, to extinguish an unhappy
dispute — a dispute, perhaps, unpremeditated as well as
unhappy — regretted as well as unintended by the imme-«
diate parties — and to rescue them from the consequences
of which, yrithout any violation of the rules of true ho-
nour, and even without any departure from the rules of
false honour, which every one has not the calm courage
to violate, nothing is wanting but a conduct diametrically
opposite to that of these pretended friends — a conduct
which will prevent extremities, without wounding a senti-

ItCTURES ON LAW. 81

\

ment which, withput necessity, ought not to be wounded,
because it is delicate though it be mistaken.

Animated with a just degree of blended resentment
and disdain against the conduct first described, the com-
mon law wisely and humanely extends disgrace andxen-
sure and punishment to those who provoke, even to those
who endeavour to provoke, another to send a challenge.

On the same principles on which affrays are prohibited
and punished, riots, routs, and unlawful assemblies are
also prohibitcU and punished by the common law. Two
persons may commit an affray ; but to a riot, a rout, or an
unlawful at>sembly, three are necessary. A riot is a tu-
multuous disturbance of the peace by persons unlawfully
assembled with a view to execute, and actu^ly executing,
some unlawful act, in a violent and turbulent manner, to
the terrour of the people. °* A rout is a riot unfinished ;
and is committed by persons unlawfully assenijj^led with a
Tiew to execute, and actually making a motion to execute,
an unlawful act, the execution of which would render the
riot complete. An unlawful assembly is an unfinished
rout ; and is committed by persons unlawfully assembled
with a view, but without actually making a motion, to
execute an unlawful act, to the execution of which, if
they had made an actual motion, they would have been
guilty of a rout. " The punishment of these offences, at
the common law, has generally been by fine and imprison-
ment only: cases, however, very enormous have been
punished by the pillory also. *»

. ml. Haw. 155.- Salk. 594. 3. Ins. irs. . »* 1. Haw.' M«.

o Id. 159.

▼OL. III. Ik

^2 LECTU&ES ON LAW.

Mayhem is a crime committed by violently depriving
one of the use of any part of his body, by losing the
use of which he becomes less able, in fighting, to annoy
his adversary or- to defend himself. ^ This is an atrocious
breach of the publick peace and security. By it, one
of the citizens is disabled from defending himself; by
it, his fellow citizens are debarred from receiving th^tso*
cial aid which they are obliged to give ; by it, the state
loses those services, which it had H right to exact and
expect. In ancient times, this crime was punished ac-
cording to the law of retaliation : it is now punished with
fine and imprisonment. ^

The forcible abduction or stealing of a {yrson from
his countr}'^, is a gross violation of the right of personal
safety. To this crime the ttrxa kidnapping is appropria*
ted by the law. It robs the state of a citizen ; it banishes
the citizen from his country ; and it may be productive
of mischiefs of the most lasting and humiliating kind.
By the common law, it is punished with fine, with im»
prisonment, and with the pillory. ^

A rape is an irreparable and a most atrocious aggres-
sion on the right of personal safety^ Besides the' thousaood
excruciating, but nameless circumstances by which it is
aggravated, some may be mentioned with propriety. It
is a crime committed not only against the citizen, but
against the woman ; not only against the common riglits
of society, but against the peculiar rights of the sex :
it is committed by one from whom, on every virtuous
and manly principle, her sex is , entitled to inviolable
protection, and her honour to the most sacred regard.

P 1. Haw. 111. ^ 4. Bl. Com. 306. r fa. 219.

LECTURES ON LAW.

ds

This crime is one of the selected few, which, by the
laws of the Saxons, were punished with death. The
same punishment " it still undergoes in the commonwealth
of Pennsylvania. - On this subject, for an obvious rea-
son, particular observations will not be expected from a
lectuire in the hall : they are fit for the book and the clo-
set only : for even the book and the closest they are fit,
only because they are necessary.

The crime not to be named, I pass in a total silence.

I now proceed to consider homicide, and : all its
different species. Homicide is the generical term used
by the law to denote every human act, by which a man
is deprived of his life. It may be arranged under the
following divisions— enjoined homicide — justifiable ho-
micide — ^homicide by misfortune — excusable homicide —
alleviated homicide — malicious homicide — ^treasonable

I

homicide.

I. 1. Homicide is enjoined, when it is necelssary for
the defence of the United States, or of Pennsylvania.
At present, it is not necessary for me, and, therefore,
I decline to examine the general and very important sub-
ject concerning the rights of war. I confine myself
merely to that kind -of war, which is defensive : and
even that kind I now consider solely ab a municipal

• 1. Laws Penn 135.

t By the act of assembly of 22d» April 1794, the punishftieBt
of this crime is changed into imprisonment at hard labour, for a
period not less than ten, nor more than twenty one years. 3* Laws
^enn. 600. £d.

84 ^ LECTURES ON LAW.

regulation, established by the constitution of the nation,
and that of this commonwealth.

The constitution of the nation is ordained to ^^ pro-
vide for the common defence.^' In order to make ^^ pro-
vision" for that defence, congress have the power to
" provide for arming the militia," and " for calling them
forth," " to repel invasions :" they have power " to pro-
vide a navy," " to raise and support armies," " to declare
war." ** Whenever the primary ^object, " the cpmmon
defence," renders it necessary, the power becomes the
duty of congress : and it requires no formal deduction
of logick to point to the duty, when necessity shall re-
quire, of military bodies, ^^ raised, supported, and arm.
ed." In Pennsylvania, it is explicitly declared upon the
very point, that ^^ the freemen of this commonwealth
shall be armed for its defence.^' ^ «

2. Homicide is enjoined, when it is necessary for the
' defence of one's person or house.

With regard to the first, it is the great natural law of
self preservation, which, as we have seen, ^ cannot be
repealed, or superseded, or suspended by any human in-
stitution. This law, however, is expressly recognised
in the constitution of Pennsylvania. * " The right of the
citizens to bear arms in the defence of themselves shall
not be questioned." This is one of our many renewals
of the Saxon regulations. " They were bound," says ~
Mr. Sclden, '' to keep arms for the preservation of the *
kingdom, and of their own persons." ^

s

* Cons. U. S. art. 1. s. 8. ▼ Cons. Pcnn. art 6. s. 2.

Ante. vol. 2. p. 496. » Art 9. s. 21. ^ Bac. on Gov. 4a

ti;CTUIlE0 ON LAW.
With regard to the second ; every man's house it
deemed9 by the law, to be his castle ; and the law, while
it iiivests him with the power, enjoins on him the duty,
of the commanding officer. " Every man's house is his
castle," says my Lord Coke, in one of his reports, *' and
he ought tp keep and defend it at his peril; and if any
one be robbed in it, it shall be esteemed his own default
and negligence." ' For this reason, one may assemble
people together in order to protect and defend his
house. *

3. Homicide is frequently enjoined by the judgment
of courts agreeably to the directions of the law. This
is the case in all capital punishments. This species of
homicide is usually classed with those kifids which are
justifiable. The epithet is true so far a3 it goes.' But it
goes not far enough to characterize the conduct of the
officer to whom it relates. One may be justifiable in do-
ing a thing, in omitting to do which he may be equally
justified. But this is not the case with a sherif]^ or other
ministerial officer of justice. He is commanded to do
•xecution.

II. As homicide is enjoined, when a sentence of
death is to be executed ; so it is sometimes justified in
the execution of other process from the courts of jus-
tice. When persons, who have authority to arrest,
and who use the proper means for that purpose, are re-
sisted in doing so, and the party making resistance is
killed in the struggle; this homicide is justifiable. ^ If a
person, who interposes to part the combatants in ana£Frayi

■ 7. Rep. 6.

1. Ha]c.P. C.54r. 4. BL Com. 233L

fc Eden. 209. Post. 270. 1. Hale. P. C. 494.
LECTURES OK LAW»

and gives notice to them of his friendly intention, is as^^
saulted by any of them, and, in the struggle, happens
to kill ; this is justifiable homicide. For, in such cases,
it is the duty of every man to interpose, that mischief
may be prevented, and the peace may be. preserved.
This rule is founded in the principles of social duty. •
tf a woman, in defence of her honour, kill him who
attempts the last outrage against it; this homicide is
justifiable. ^ In the same manner, the husband or father
may justify the killing of one, who makes a similar
attempt upon his daughter or wife. * In these instances
of justifiable homicide, the person who has done it is
to be acquitted and discharged, with commendation rs(-
ther than censure. ^

III. Homicide by misfortune happens, when a man^
in the execution of a lawful act, and without intending^
any harm, unfortunately kills another. * The act must
not only be lawful, but must also be done in a lawful man-
ner. If a master, correcting his servant moderately^
happens to occasion his death, it is only misadventure ;
for the act of correction was lawful : but it is much other-
wise, if he exceed in the manner, the instrument, or the
quantity of the correction.

This species of homicide, if found by a jury, stUl,
in strict law, as it is received in England, subjects the
unfortunate — I cannot call him the guilt}" — ^party, to a
forfeiture of his personal estate ; or, as some say, only

c Fost 272. Eden. 209.

e 4. BL Com. 181.

* Fost 274. Eden. 2ia
^ Id. 182. Fost. 279.

Z Fost. 258.

>" 4. BL Com. 182. Fost 363.

LECTURES ON LAW. S7

a part of it* He has, it is true, his pardon, and a writ
for restoring his goods, as a matter of course^ when he
pays the fees for them. ^ Sir William Blackstone seem*
to make an apology for this forfeiture, by observing, that^
in the- case of homicide by misadventure, the law pre-
sumes negligence, or, at least, a want of suiEcient caution^
in him who was so unfortunate as to commit it i who^
therefore, is not altogether faultless. . The law itself is
severe in this instance— confessedly so : but the apology
for it seems to be founded on a principle, rigorous and
totally inadmissible.

Shall the unfortunate be necessarily viewed as also
incautious ? Shall negligence be presumed by the law,
when misadventure has been found by the jury ? No.
The doctrine is inadmissible. It is rigorous. Accidents
of this lamentable kind may be the lot of the wisest and
most cautious, and of the best and most humane among
men : they most frequently happen among those who are
relations or friends ; because those associate most fre-
quendy together. In such cases, to ascribe the calamity
to a conduct *' not altogether faultless ;" to " presume
negligence," when nothing existed but bitter misfortune,
would, indeed, be to ^' heap affliction upon the head of tho
^icted," and to stab afresh a heart still bleeding with
its former wound. It would be to aggravate the loss of
even a brother, a parent, a child, a wife ; if of aggra-
vation such a loss,' in such circumstances, is susceptible. ^

The law itself, in this instance, is, as has been men-
tioned, severe — confessedly so. The fees of office' have
probably, in this as in too many other instances, prevented

' 4. BL Com. 188. J Id. 186. k Fost 264,

t
I

88 LECTURES OH LAW.

improvement. ^ I therefore think,'^ to use the expres-
sions of a great, master of criminal law, " those judges,
who have taken general verdicts of acquittal in plain
cases of homicide by misfortune, have not been to blame.
They have, to say the worst, deviated from ancient
practice in favour oi innocence, and have prevented an
expense of time and money, with which an applicatioif
to the great seal, though in a matter of course, as this
undoubtedly is, must be . constantly attended." * It is
proper to pbserve that this late practice of the judges is
mentioned by Sir William Blackstone, in terms which
intimate his approbation. "

IV. Excusable homicide is that which, on a sudden*
affray" between parlies, is given in the necessary defence
of him who wishes and endeavours to quit the combat.
This is carefully to be distinguished, because it is mate*
rially different, itoxxi that kind of self defence which is
justified or enjoined to prevent the perpetration of tht
most atrocious outrage upon one's person or habitation. *

The species of homicide, which We are now to coin
sider, though excusable by the benignity of the law, is
^till culpable. It is done, when a person, engaged in a
sudden affray, quits the combat before a mortal woun<i
is given, and retreats or flies as far as he can with safety ;
and then, urged by mere necessity, kills his adverssBy
for the preservation-of his own life. ^ This species ap-
proaches near to manslaughter ; and, in experience, the
4;>oundary between them is, in some places, difficult to be

' i Fo«t, 288. ' °» 4. Bl. Com. 188. " Post 276.

• 4. Bl. Com. 183. p Fost- 27^.

LECTURE! ON LAW*. 89

discerned : it is marked, however, in the consideration
of law. In both species, it is supposed that passion has
Icindled on each side ; and that blows have passed between
the parties. ^ But in the case of manslaughter, either the
combat on both sides continues till the mortal stroke is
given, or the party giving it is not in imminent danger:
whereas, in the case of excusable homicide, he who is
excused declines, before a mortal strok'e given, any further
combat, and retreats as far as he can with safety ; and
Aen, through mere necessity, and to avoid immediate
death, kills his adversar}'. ^

Though this species of homicide is very different from
that which happens by misfortune ; yet the judges, in one
as well as the other, permit, if not direct, a general verdict
of acquittal. ^

y. To alleviated homicide, the term manslaughter is
appropriated. When the epithet alleviated h applied to this
species of homicide, it must be understood only as com-
pared with that which is malicious : for manslaughter,
though in this view an alleviated, is a felonious homicide.
tt is the unlawful killing of another, without malice ; and
may be either voluntarily, upon a sudden heat or provo-
cation ; or involuntarily, but in the commission of some
unlawful act. Wheh manslaughter is voluntary, it is
distinguished from excusable homicide by this criterion-—
that, in the latter case, the killing is through necessity,
and to avoid immediate death ; whereas, in the former,
there is no necessity at all ; it being a sudden act of re-
venge. When manslaughter is involuntary, it is distin-
guished from homicide by misfortune by this criterion—-

4 Fost. 275. srr. 4. BL C<nn. 185. r 4. BL Com. 188.

^OL. III. K

90 LECTURES ON LAllT.

that the latter always happens in consequence- of ^alawfuly
the former, in consequence of an unlawful act. I\f iasi«
slaughter, both voluntary and involuntary, is distingui$Ii«
ed from malicious homicide 1)y this criteripiv— -that tho
latter is with, the former without, malice.

■

In England, manslaughter is punished by burning in
the hand, and by the forfeiture of goods and chattels. *
In the United States, it is punished by a fine not exceed-
ing one thousand dollars, and by imprisonment not ex-
ceeding three years. ^ In Pennsylvania, ^ it is punishedi^y
a fine at the discretion of the court, and by imprisonment
not exceeding two years ; and the offender shall find secu-
rity for his good behaviour during life. ^

VI. To malicious homicide the term murder is appro-
priated by the law. This name was, in ancient times,
applied only to the secret kiUing of another; for which

s 4. Bl. Com. 193. ' LawsU.S. l.cong.S. aess.c.9.8.r.

' ^ 1. Laws. ?enn. 846.

^ llie punishment of voluntary m^mslaughter, by the act of 2Sd
April, 1794, (3. Laws* Pei^n. 601. s. 7.) is, for the first offence, im-
prisonment at hard labour, not less than two, nor more than ten
years ; and the offender shall be sentenced likewise to give security
for his good behaviour during life, or for any less time, accprding to
the nature and enormity 6f the offence. For the second ofience, he
shall be imppspned as aforesaid not less than six, nor more than
fourteen years. In cases of involuntary manslau^ter, th^ prosecu-
tor for the commonwealth may, with the leave of the court, wave the
felony, and charge the person with a misdemeanor ; who, on con-
viction, shall be fined and impi^soned as in cases of misdemeanor ;
or the proMcutor may charge both o£fences in the indictment ; and
the jury may in such case acquit the party of one, and find him goiRy
of tlie other charge. 3. Laws. Penn. 601. s* 8. EtL

LECTURES ON LAW. . 91

Ae viU or hundred where it was committed was heavily
amerced. This amercement was called murdrum^ This
expression is now applied to the crime ; and the crime
is now considered in a very diflFerent, and much more
extensive point of view, without regarding whether the<
person killed was killed openly or secretly, w -

Murder is the unlawful killing of another with malice
aforethought, express or implied. * The distinction, you
obseTve, which is strongly marked between manslaughter
and murder is, that the former is committed without, the
latter with malice aforethought. It is essential, there-
fore, to know, clearly and accurately, the true and legal
Import of this characteristick distinction.

There is a very great difference between that sense
which is conveyed by the expression malice in common
language, and that to which the term is appropriated by
the law. In common language, it is most frequently
usfed to denote a sentiment or passion of strong malevo*
lence to a particular person ; or a settled anger and desire
of revenge in one person against another. In law, it
means the dictate of a wicked and malignant heart ; of
a depraved, perverse, and incorrigible disposition. Agree-
ably to this last meaning, many of the cases, which are
arranged under the head of implied malice, will be found
to turn upon this single point, that the fact has been at-
» tended with such circumstances-— --particularly the circum-
stances of deliberation and cruelty concurring— as betray
the plain indications and genuine symptoms of a mind
grievously depraved, and acting from motives highly cri-
qgiinal ; of a heart regardless of social duty, and delibe*,

«r i. Bl. Coio. V^i. . 0. 1»s. 4r.

92 LtCTIXREfl ON LAV.

rateljr bent upon mischief. This is the true notion of
malice, in the legal sense of the w6rd* The mischievous
and vindictive spirit denoted by it, must always be ccd-
lected and inferred from the circumstances of the trans-
action* On the circumstances of the transaction, the
closest attention should, for this reason, be bestowed.
Every circumstance may weigh something in the scale of
justice.

In England, in the United States, in Pennsylvania,
and almost universally throughout the world, the crime of
wilful and premeditated murder is and has been punished
with death. Indeed it seems agreed by all, that, if a
capital punishment ought to be inflicted for any criixikesy
this is unquestionably a crime for which it ought to be
inflicted. Those who think that a capital punishment is
enjoined against this crime by the law which is divine,
wUl not imitate the conduct of that Polish monarch, who
remitted to the nobility the penalties of murder, in a
charter of pardon beginning arrogantly thijsy— **No»
divini juris ri^oremmoderantes, &c."*

y 4.fil, Com. 194.

» Murder, by tUe act of 22d April, 1794, is distinguished into tw6
degrees. Murder of the first degree alone is punished with death,
and is the only capital crime now known to the laws of Pennsylvania.
Murder perpetrated by means of poison, or by lying in wait, or bf
Any odier kind of wilful, deliberate, and premeditated killing, or com*
mitted in the perpetration, or attempt to perpetrate, any a]*san,raptf
robbery, or burglary, is deemed murder cf the first degree. AHother
kinds of murder are deemed murder in the second degree. The
punishment of this is imprisonment at hard labour, for a period not
less than five, nor more than eighteen years. 3. Lalnrs. Penn. 599. 60Q.
s.1.2.4. £d.

LE6TU11ES ON LAW.

9i

VII« Treasonable homicide is committed by a servant
who kills his master, and a wife, who kills her husband.
Petit treason is the name appropriated, by the law, to this
crime. It arises fropthe relation which subsists between
the person killing and the person killed* The crime
whichf committed by smother, would be murder, is petit
treason when committed by the wife, or by a servant.

The punishment of this crime, in England, is, that
the man is drawn and hanged ; and the woman is drawn
and burned, a By a law ^ ^still in force in Pennsylvania,
persons conyicted of this crime, or of ijaurder, shall sufier
as the laws of Great Britain now do or hereafter shall
direct and require in such cases respectively. ^

"^ 4. BL Com. 204.

*> 1. Laws. Perm. 135.

c « Every person liable to be prosecuted for petit treason shall In
fat«ire be indicted, proceeded against, andpanlshed, as is directed in
other kinds of murder.'' Act of 22d April, 1^94. s. 3. 3. Laws
Penn. 600. £d.

* I

CHAPTER V.

OT CKIMEfi, IMMEDIATELY AGAINgT THE COMMUNITY^

X HAVE hitherto considered crimes, which wound
the community through the sides of individuals : I now
come to consider one which directly and immediately
aims a stab at the vitals of the community herself. I
mean treason against the United States, and against the
state of Pennsylvania.

Treason is unquestionably a crime most dangerous to
the society, and most repugnant to the first principles of
the social compact. It must, however, be observed,
that as the crime itself is dangerous and hostile to the
state, so the imp&tation of it has been and may be dan-
gerous and oppressive to the citizens. To the freest
governments this observation is by no means inapplica-
ble ; as might be shown at large by a deduction, historical
and political, which would be both interesting and in-
structive. But, at present, we have not time for it.

96 LECTURES ON LAW.

To secure the state, and at the same time to secure
the citizens — ^and, according to our principles, the last
is the end, and the first is the means — the law of trea-
son should possess the two' following qualities. 1. It
should be determinate. 2. It should be stable.

It is the observation of the celebrated Montesquieu, *
that if the crime of treason be indeterminate, this alone
is sufficient to make ' any government degenerate into
arbitrary power. In monarchies, and in republicks, it
furnishes an opportunity to unprincipled courtiers, and
to demagogues equally unprincipled, to harass the inde-
pendent citizen, and the faithful subject, by treasons^
and by prosecutions for treasons, constructive, capricious,
and oppressive.

«

In point of precision and accuracy with regard to thm
crime, the common law, it must be owned, was grossly
deficient. Its description was uncertain and ambiguous ^
and its denomination and penalties were wastefuUy com*
muuicated to offences of a different and iriferiour kind.
To lop off these numerous and dangerous excrescences,
and to reduce the law on this important subject to a de-
signated and convenient form, the famous statute of
treasons was made in the reign of Edward the third, en
the application of the lords and commons. This statute
has b«en in England, except during times remarkably-
tyrannical or turbulent, the governing rule with regard to
treasons ever since.^ Like a rock, strong by nature, and
fortified, as successive occasions required, by the able
and the honest assistance of art, it has been impregnaUe ^
by all the rude and boistrous assaults, which :have been

■ Sp, L. b. 12. c r.

LSGTUvllBa ON LAW. 97

laade iq>on k, at different quarters, by ministers and by
jiidgesL; and ^s an object of national security, as wel^
as of national pride, it may well be styled the legal Gi-
braltar of England.

Little of this statute, hawever, demands our minute
^entidn now ^ as the great changes in our constitutions
have superceded all its monarchical parts. One clause
oi it, indeed, merits our strictest investigation ; be/cause
it is transcribed into the constitution of the United States*
Another clause in it merits our strongest regard; because
it contains and holds forth a principle and an example,
worthy of our observance and imitation.

After having enumerated and declared aU the difler-
ent species of treason, which it was thought proper to
estiAilish, the statute proceeds in this manner : ^^ and
because many odiier cases of li]ce treason may b^pen in
time to come, which, at present, a man cannot think or
declare i it is assented, that if any other case, supposed
treason, which is not specified above, happen before any
ju<^s, they shall not go to judgment in such case ; but '
Aa}l tarry, tkU it be shown aud (^clared before the king
and his parliament, whether it ought to be judged trea-
son or other felony."

The great ^nd the gcx>d Lord Hale observes ** upon
diss clause, ^^ the great wisdom and care of the parlia-
imeiit, tp keep judges within the bounds and express 11-
Bsiits qf this statute, and not to suffer them to run out^
Vffpn- their k\m opinions, into constructive treasons,
^Hl^ iot cuaes. which seem to have a parity of reason"

YOL. III. o

98 LSGTURES on LAIT.

— cases of like treason — **' but reserves them to the de«
cision of parliament. This," he justly says, " is a great
security as well as direction to judges ; and a great tafe*
guard even to this sacred act itself."

It is so. And it was all die safeguard which the pai*-
Uament, by the constitution, as it is called, of England^
could give. It was a safeguard from the arbitrary con*
structions of courts : it was a shelter from judicial storms ?
but it was no security against legislative tempests. No
parliament, however omnipotent, could bind its success
sours, possessed of equal omnipotence ; and no power^
higher than the power of parliament, was then of is
yet recognised in the juridical system of England. What
was the consequence t In the very next reign, the fluc-
tuating and capricious one of Richard the second, the
parliaments were profuse, even to ridicule-^f, in si^^
a Serious subject, ridicule could find a place-— in enac^g
new, tyrannical, and even contradictory treasons. Thii
they did to such an abominable degree, that, as we are
told by the first parliament which met under bis Bnc^tn^
souf*, ^* there was no man who knew how he ought to be-
have himself, to do, speak, or say, for doubt of tht
pains of such treasons." ^

In the furious and sanguinary reign of Henry the
eighth, the malignant spirit of inventing treasons revivedi
and was carried to such a height of mad extravagance,
that, as we have seen on another occasion, the learned
as well as the unlearned, the cautious as well as the Hb^
wary, the honest as well as the vicious, were entrapped
in the sn^es* How impotent, as well as <truel ai&d lit*

« St 1. H^. 4, Cb ia

\

X.ECTURES ON LAW.

coi^^ot, is tyr^UQAy m the extreme ! His savage rage
r^ojle^t at son^e t^m^^, upon those who were most near
to him ; ^it other ttia^es, witb more justice, upon himself.
The beautiful a^ amiable Boleyn became the victim o£
that very law, which her husband^ in his fit of lustful
pliasion«-^or the jutonster was callous to /^ve— -made for
h^ s^urity* When the enormities of his life and reign
were drawing towards their end, his physiciai^ saw their
t3rrant in their patient ; and they refused to apprize him
of his sittt^ioi^i, be$;a:y#p he had m^de it treasojti to predict
his d^aith.

4^44nQijaishe4 by tb^: hi^pry of such tiis^ smd tran^*
a^dons as .these, wj^en legislators are tyraipits or tpols of
tyrw^t& i estabUshi^gf UA4>€r thek ow^ coatrpl, a powe.r '
superiour to that of the legislature ; and availing theni-
sf||ves of that power, more permanent as well as supe-
riQ\i^.$ the people of thp United Stages hav^ wisely and
hVL^nanely ordaine4> ^hat /^ tres^spp ag^nst the UAited
States .shadl CQ^sist pn]ly i^ levyi^^ wa^ aga^Qst th^Qi, or
in adhering to their e«iemie$^ giving them s^d and corn-
fact."*

. In this maimer, the citis^ens of the Union are aecurejd
effeolually from «ven legislative tyranny : and in this in-
stance) as in many others, the happiest and most approved
example of oiber times has not only been imitated, but
excelled* This single sont^nce comprehends our whole
ist national treason ; and, as I mentioned before, is tran-
scribed from a pant of the statute of Edward' the third.
By those who proposed the national constitution, this was
done, that, in a sufc^^ect so essentially interesting to each

^ CdL U. S.art^ s. $,

100 LkcfUHEO Off lAW*

and to all, not a single expression shouM %e \vSx69i!W^^
bat such as coald show in its favcmt, diHt^ k vms rtcoi^
mended by the mature experience^ and aafcertanied by %he
legsd interpretation, of nfttrae^ous revSblving eentim^sv

To the examinattion^ and^o^sCra^tioii^ aand well 4^
signaled force of those pxpi^ssions, I «(ow sdKcit your
strict attention.

^^ Treason consists in levying waragaiiist ^ht ^fitted
States." In order to understand this propositto^l^ secm^
rately and in all its parts, it may be necessary to give a
full and precise answer to affl the fotlowiiig q^j^estfons.

1. What is» Bfteant by^he exfyressite ^^teyying wfcr?'*

2. By whom may %he war be levied ? 3^ Agiiast wlltoVft
mutft it t>e levied ? •

T6 each of these qttestionB I ciician to give an flttra W^r***-
if possible, a satisftictory answer j Imt not Jn the order, Sia
which they are proposed. I begin with the seco<id-*-by
who^m tnay the %aT spoken of be levied ? It is such li Iraf
as constitutes treason. The answer then is this ; ^e ^i^
must be levied by those who, while they levy it, are at
the same time guilty of treason. This throws tils liack
necessarily upon another qu6stio^-»^who onay commit
treason against the United States \ To this the answer
is'-^those who owe obedience to their au!thority. iBot
still another question rises before us-— who sv e they that
owe obedience to that authority l I answei^— 'those wbe
receive ^pfrotection from it. In the m<Hiarchy of Gtrefit
Britain, :prdtefction and allegiance ^e '^tniv^salty a^Iuftowoi
kdged to be rights and duties recqirocal. The sam^ ifnm^
ciple reigns in governments of every kind. I use here
the expression obedimee iaaleiKl of the expression aUe^

- .^

I I

^iiwlf^ > ^ecwasfc^ in Eftgknd, '^Ifeglaxiee is tonsMerfed ttn
€a&^ ^l^he%sfttt¥al:, ^ as well tfs to the taorM person oi* tke
Midgi to *Aie ifnA«', as well as to the r^resented authority-
of the nation. In tha United States, the OQlitority of the
nation is the sole object on one side. An object strictly
<!orre9pondiiig'to that) sfaoaM be the only one requik-ed
' on the othet* side. The object strictly •eorresponding to
anthority i», obedience to that authority. I speak, therew
fore, with propriety mid accuracy unexceptionaUe, whea
J S2y,^hat those who owe obedience to the authority, are
tfodi as Ye^Ve llie protection, of the United States.

This elose sei^ies ef inv^sdgation has led us to a
^ifodard, which is plaiii and ^easy, as well as pfoper and
adcnriN;e<^^-« standard, whfch every one can, without die
possibility of a mistake, diseovei; by his experience, as
ipll as by kk understaiiding — by what he enjoys, as w«U
as by what he sees. Every one has a monitor within him^
which can tell whether he feels protection from the au»
thofrity of the United States : if he does, to that authority
he owes obedience. On the political, as well as on the
aati^ral globe^ every point must have its a\itipode. Of
d>edien€e the antipode is treason.

1 have nbw shown, by whom the war may be levied.
On this subject, a ^reat deal of leamingi, historical, legale
said political, inight he displayed 4 and changes mi^t
easily be rut^ on the doctrines of natural, and local, and
temporary, and perpetual sjleglance. I pnrposely avoid
-them. The rei^on i», that so much false is blended with
so ^tde gettuhie intelligence, as to render any discovery
you would make an inadequate compensation for youir

e 1. BL Cmb. 371.

im

hZCTJSKBB Off hAWp

trovdJe ia 8e»Pchtttg for ic. The rights aad ded^ of
protection and obedience may, I think^ in a much tfion
pfaan and dii%ct road, be brought itbme to t2ie boaom
and the bixsittesb of every one.

I noff proceed to another questioB-^^whal is meant
by die expression ^^ levying war T'. Frojoi what has bi^ea
said in answer to the former question^ 4in ansifer to thi»
iB 90 far prepared as to inform us^ that the tens war
caBDot, in diis place, mean such a «te as is carried on.
between independent powers. The parties on one sklis
are those who owe obedience. ^ All the curious and .
extensive learnii^, therefore, concerning the laws of war
as carried on between separate nations, must be thrown
omt of this question* This is such a war as is levied by
those who owe obediexice — by ciiizens; and therefore
auasit he such a war, as, in the natnre of things^ citi:
can levy.

The indictments for tliis treason generally desci4be
the persons indicted as *' arrayed in a warlike manner.*'
As where people are assembled in great numbers, armed
with offensive weapons j or weapons of war, if they march
thus armed in a body, if they have chosen commanders
or officers, if they march with banners displayed, or with
drums or trumpets : whether the greatness oi their num-
bers and their continuance together doing these acts
may not amount to being arrayed in a warlike manner, ^
deserves consideration. If they have no sdlitary aii^a^^
nor march or continue together in the posture of warf ^
they may be great rioters, but their conduct does nM
always amount to a levying of war. *

f 1. Hale. P. C. 131. 150.

s 10.131.

LBCTVRSS ON I. AIT* , lOS

WSncj with force and weapons invasive or defenstve,
hold^nd defend a casde or forta^ainst the publick powers
this is to levy war. So an actual insurrection or rebel-
lion is a levying of war, and by that name must be express
sed in the indictment.

But this question will receive a farther illustratioti '
from the answer to the third question j because the fact^
of levying war is often evinced more clearly from the
purpose for which, than from the manner in which, the
parties assemble. I therefore proceed to examine the
last question--— against whom must the war be levied i
It must be levied against the United States.

The words of the statute of treasons are, *^ If any
one levy war against the king." I have before observed
thiat) in England, allegiance is considered as due to the
natural, as well as to the moral person of the king*
This part of the statute 4>f treasons has been always
understood as extending to a violation of allegiance io
both those points of view'-^to the levying of war not cmly
against his person, but also against his authority or laws.^
The levying of war against the United States can, for
the reasons already suggested, be considered only in the
latter view.

The question now arising is the following— -I'S such
or such a w^ levied against the United States f This
question, as was already intimated, will be best answered
by considering the intention with which it was levied.^
If it is levied on account of some private quarrel, or to

'^ 3. Ins. la i 1. Haw. 37. 4. Bl. Com. 81. Fost 21^.

j Fost 208.

104 hBerUKtB 0M £AW.

t^ke revenge of paiticular persDiw, it is not a vtm leVied
against the United States* ^ A riaiing to. maintain, a
private claim of right ; to break prisons for the release
of particular persons, without any other eircumatanpe of-
aggravation; or to remove nuisances which, afiect, or
are thought to affect, in point of interest, the parties
w|io assemble'^-this is not a levying of war againat the
United States. ^ Insurrections in order to throw down
4iU inclosures, to open ali prisons, to enhance the
price of all lahour^ to exp^l foreigners in general, or
those from any single nation living ujider the protec-,
tion of government, to alter. the established law, or to.
render it ineffectual — rinsurrections tp accomplish, these
ends, by numbers and an open and armed force, are a
levying of war against the United States. "^

' The line pf 4ivi$ioii between this species of treas«yi
a|id an aggravated riot is sometimea very fine and dificult
to be distinguished* In such in&tsmces, it is safest and
most prudent tp consider the case in question as lying
' on the side of the inferiour crime. ^

Tr^asoQ consists^ in ^^ adhering to the enemies of the
United States, giving them aid and comfort*" By enemies,
are here understood the citizens or subjects of foreign
princes or states, with whom the United States are at
«(pen war* But the subjects or citizens of such states or
princes, in actual hostility, though no war be solemnly
declared, are s|ich enemies* ° The expressions ^ giving
them aid ^i^d com&rv" are explanatory of what is meant

k Fost 209. 1 Id. 2ia " Id. 211. 213.

* 1. Hale. P. C. 146* o Post 219.

LECTUIIE8 ON LAW* 105

by adherence. To give intelligence to enemies, to send
provisions to them, to sell arms to them, treacherously
to, surrender a fort to them, to cruise in a ship with
them agsdnst the United States — ^these are acts of ad-
herence, aid, and comfort. ^

To join with rebels in a rebellion, or with enemies
in acts of hostility, is treason in a citizen, by adhering
to those enemies, or levying war with those rebels*
But if this be done from apprehension of death, and
while the party is under actual force, and he take the
first opportunity which offers to make his escape ; this
fear and compulsion will excuse him»^

In England, the punishment of treason is terrible in-
deed. The criminal is drawn to the gallows, and is not
suffered to walk or be carried -, though usually a hurdle
is allowed to preserve him from the torment of being
dragged on the ground* He is hatiged by the neck, and
is then cut down alive. His entrails are taken out and
burned, while he is yet alive. His head is cut off. His
body is divided into four parts. His head and quarters
are at the disposal of the king. ' '

In the United States and in Pennsylvania, * treason is
punished in the same manner as other capital crimes.

/

t

p Fost Sir. 1. Haw. 38. 4. Bl. Com. 82,

■ Fost 216. «■ 4. BL Com. 92.

s Treason against the state is now punished by imprisonment at
hard labour, for a period not less than six, nor more than twelve
yeia*s. 3. Laws Penn. 600. For the descriptioa of treason against
the state, see 1* Laws Penn. 726. 2. Laws Penn. 83. Ed.

VOL. III. P

/•

106 tECTURES OH LAW.

A traitor is hostile to bis country : a pirate is th^
enemy of mankind— ^o*t/* humani generis*

Piracy is robbery and depredation on the high seas;
and is a crime against the universal law of society. Bjf-
declaring war against the whole human race, the pirate
has laid the whole human race under the necessity of de-
claring war against him. He has renounced the benefits
of society and government : he has abandoned himself
to the most savage state of nature. The consequence
is, that, by the laws of self defence, every community
has a right to inflict upon him that punishment, which,
in a state of nature, every individual would be entitled
to inflict for any invasion of his person or his personal
property. '

" If any person/' says a law of the United Staites^
^' shall compnit, upon the high seas, or in any river, ha-
ven, basin, or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any pai**
ticular state, murder or robbery, or any other offence,
which, if committed within the body of a county, would^
by the laws of the United States, be punished with death J
every such offender shall be deemed, taken and adjudged
to be a pirate and felon, and being thereof convicted
shall suffer death." *

By the ancient common law, piracy committed by a,
subject was deemed a species of treason. ^ According
to that law, it consists of such acts of robbery and de-

* 4. BL Com. n.
m Laws U. S. 1. con. 1. sess. c 9. s. S. ▼ 4. 1^ Com. M.

L£CTUR£S ON LAW<

tor

pp'edation upon the high seas, as^ committed on the land,
-would amount to a felony there. ^ The law of general
society, as well as the law of nations, is a part of the
coininon law. *

w 4. BL Com. 72.

» Id. 73.

> «

'/

\

CHAPTER VI.

OF CRIMEA, A^IECTING SEVERAL OF THE NATURAL

RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.

I

1 HOSE crimes and offences of which I have ak^adjr
treated, attack some one of the natui'al rights of manpr
of society : there are other crimes and offiencesi which
attack several of those natural rights. Of these, nuisances
are the most extensive and diversified.

A nuisance denotes any thing, which produces mis*
chief/ injury, or inconvenience. It is divided intotwo
kinds — common and private, a The latter will be treated
under the second division of my system : it is a damage
to property. Common nuisances are a collection of per-
sonal injuries, which annoy the citizens generally and
indiscriminately — so generally and indiscriminately, fhat
it would be difficult to assign to each citizen his just pro*

« 3. Bl Com. 31^ 4. BL C«iii. 1€«.

110 LECTU11S8 OH LAW*

portion of redress ; and yet, on the whole, so ** noisome/*
that publick peace, and order, and tranquillity, and safety
require them to be punished or abated.

On this subject, and, I believe, on this subject alone,
the common law makes no distinction between a person
and a thing. The Exquisite propriety, with which the
distinction is lost in this subject, proves strongly the im-
portance of preserving it in every other. The exception
establishes the rule.

How degraded are persons when they deserve to be
classed with things ! We have seen, on aformer occasion,^
Aat-^l. The duellists and the promoters of duels are
ranked with the offals of the sha m bles. The station is,
indeed, a most humiliating one. Let no station, however,
yield to absolute despair. From the very lowest depres*
sion, as well as from the very highest exaltation, there is
a f etum in a eofttrary c^gjrse. in pure compassion ior the
degraded hero, let us give bim 9t least one gnule i>f pix>*
motifHif P^^'bapst by vigoro^s exertion, he may be^oniie
fnatified for his advanced dignity. Tbe quan:eUer or
promoter of quarrels of one aex> may behave so as to
reflect no great disgrace on the common scold of the
other, Sbe^ ^<>o, U a cooMaon aui^aoce.

3. A common «oold, says the law, is a publick nuiswce
U> her neighbourhood : aa such she may be UE^lieted, and,
if convicted, shall be placed in a certain en^e of cor*',
roction, called the trebucket, ^uiatigatory) or cucAing sjtOQl »
which, ia the Saxoa language, aigmfies the ncolij^ stool i
though now it is freqM^^tly corrupted into 49iciing ftool;

LBCTUltXS OH tAW« lit

because the residue of thetentence agaitist her {9^ that
when she is thus placed, she shall be plunged in the^vater^
—•for the purpose of prevention, it is presumed, as well
as of punishment*

Our modem man of gallantry would not surely decline
the honour of her company. ' I therefore propose humbl)^,
that, in future, the cucking stools shkll be made to hold
double*

3. Eaves droppers too, another set of honou^ble a<sso-
^jttes-^such as listen under Walh, or windows^ or eaves
of a house, in order to hear the discourse of the family, and
from that discourse to frame tales, mischievous and sbin«
derous — ^these are common nuisances : they may be in-
dicted as such ; and as such maybe punished by fine and
finding sureties for their good behaviour. ^

It is whispered to me, that the espression ^edvea
droppers" must refer to a very early and a very simple
state of society, when people lived in cabins or huts :
because, when people live in three story houses, it would
be rather awkward to listen at their eaves in order to ieam
the secrets of families. It is therefore suggested, that,
as the common law is remarkable for its adroitness in
accommodating itself to the successive manners of suc-
ceeding ages, a small alteration should be made in the
description of this nuisance, in order to suit it to the
present-times ; and that the tea table should be substituted
in the place of the eaves of the house. I declare I have
not the remotest objection to the proposal ; provided the
wine tables, whenever they merit it, be of the party.

c

4. Bl Com. 169. ^ Id. ibid.

119^ . LICTU&M OH LAW.

«

4. To keep hogs in any city or market townia a com-
mon nuisance. «

5* Disorderly houses are publick nuisances ; and, upoa
indictment, may be suppressed and fined. ^

. . 6* Every thing offensive and injurious to the hesdth
of a neighbourhood is a comm<Ki nuisance \ is liable to a
publick prosecution ; and may be punished by fine accotrd*
ing to the quantity of the misdemeanor, ^ '

7. Annoyanoes in h igh w ays , bridges, and publicfc
rivers are likewise common nuisances.^ Other kinds
might be enumerated. ^

Indecency, publick and grossly scandalous, may well'
be considered as a species of common nuisance : it is
certainly an offence, which may be indicted and punished
at the common law. ^ ,

ProCaneness and bbsphemy are offences^ pnaishdbie
by fine and by imprisonment. Christianity is apart of the
common law. ^

* 4. BL Com. isr. f Id. ilnd. ^ IiLibld. ^ i^. i^a.

" 1. Haw. r. 1. Sid. 168. Wood. Ins. 412.

i % Str. 834. 4. Bl Con^. 59. i

CHAPTER VII.

• I

^ OF CRIHJS8 AGAINST THE RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS
ACqjJIRED UNDER CIVIL GOVERNMENT.

Under civU govemmekit, one is entitled not only to
thoae rights which are natural ; he is entitled to others
iBi^hich are acquired. ;He is entitled to the honest admi-
nistration of the government in general: he is entitled,
in particular, to the impartial administration of justice.
Those rights may be infringed: the infringements of thebi
are crimes. These we next consider.

1. Extortion is the taking of money by any officer, by
colour of his office, either where none is due, or where
less is due, or before it is due. At common law, this
crime may be severely punished by fine and imprison-
ment, and by a removal from the office, in the execution
of whiclv it was committed. ^

TOL. ill.

* I. Haw. ira 171.

' /

114 LECTURES ON LAW.

2. Oppression under colour of office is a, crime of
still more extiensive and of still more malignant import.
Tyrannical partiality is generally its infamous assbciate.
These, at the common law, may be punished with fine,
with imprisonment, with forfeiture of office, and with
other discretionary censure regulated by the nature and
the aggravations of the crimes. ^

By a law of the United States, it is enacted, that if
any supervisor or other officer of inspection of the excise
shall be convicted of extortion or oppression in the exe- |
cution of his x>ffice ; he shall be fined not exceeding five
hundred dollars, or imprisoned not exceeding six months, '
or both, at the discretion of the court; and shall also
forfeit his office. ^

5. Even negligence in publick offices, if gross, wiQ
expose the negligent officers to a fine; and, in very

notorious cases, to a forfeiture of office. <^

-

t

4. Embracery is an attempt to influence a jury cor^
ruptly, by promises, persuasions, entreaties,, money, or
entertainments. The person embracing is punished by
fine and imprisonment. The yielding juror is distinguish--
ed by superiour punishment.^

5a Bribery is, when a judge, or other person employed
in the administration of justice, takes any undue reward
to influence his behaviour in office* At common kw^

' b 4. BL Cora. 140.
« .Laws U. S. 1. cong. 3. sess. c. 15. s. 39, .'

4 1. Haw. 168. , e 4. Bl. Com. 14(K

LECTI7REB ON LAW. Ill

bribery, in him who offers, in him who gives, and in him
who takes the bribe, is punished with fine and imprison-
ment. In high offices, the punishment has deservedly
been higher stilL ^

Bribery also signifies sometimes the taking or the
giving of a reward for an office of a publick nature.
Nothing, indeed, can be more palpably pernicious to the
publick, than that places of high power and high trust
should be filled, not by those who are wise and good
enough to execute them, but by those who are unprin-
cipled and rich enough to purchase them. '

By a law of the United States, if any person shall
give a bribe to a judge for his judgment in a cause depend-
ing before him; both shall be fined and imprisoned at
the discretion of the court ; and shall for ever be disqua-
liiied to hold any office of honour, trust, or profit under
the United States. ^ ' • ,

6. Peijury is a crime committed, when a lawful oath
is administered in some judicial proceeding, by one who
has authority, to a person who swears absolutely and
falsely, in a matter material to the issue or cause in
(juestion* ^

An oath, says my Lord Coke, is so sacred, and so
deeply concerns the consciences V>f men, that it cannot
be administered to any one, unless it be allowed by the
common law, or by act of parliament ; nor by any one,

^ A.1SL Com. 139. k 1. Haw. 168.

^ Laws U. S. 1. c«ng. % sess. c 9. s. 21. > 3.Iqs. 154

116 VZCrUAES OH LAW.

^ho has not authority by commoB law« or by act of par-
liament: neither can any oath allowed by the comiiiQ]i
law, or by act of parliament, be altered, unless by act
of parliament. ^ For these reasons, it is much to be
doubted whether any magjfitrate is justifiable in ^mi-
nistering voluntar}' aiEdavits, ^unsupported by the autho.
rity of law. It is more than possible, that, by such idl^
baths, a man may frequently incur, the guih, though ke
evade the temporal penalties of perjury. *

»

It is a part of the foregoing definition of .perjury, that
it must be when the person swears absolutely. In addi«
tion to this, it has been said, that the oath must be direct,
and not as the deponent thinks, or remembers, or believes.*
This doctrine has, however, been lately questioned ; and,
it seems, on solid principles. When a man swears, that
he believes w^at, in truih, he does not believe, he pro*
nounces a falsehood as much, as when he swears abso*
lutely that a thing is true, which he knows not to be
true. My Lord Chief Justice De Grey, in a late case,
said, that it was a mistake, which ma^nkind had fallen
into, that a person coulid not be convicted of perjury tot
deposing on oath according to his belief. « It is certain-
ly true, says my Lord Mansfield, that a man may be
indicted for perjury, in swearing that he believes a fact
to be true, which he must know to be false* ^

At common law, the punishment of perjury has been
very various. Anciently it was punished with death ;
afterwaxds with banishment, or cutting out the tongue;

^ 3. Ins. 165. 1 Id 166. 1. Haw. 17S. m Lieach. 304. '

» Ltach 304.

i

LEGTUUBS OM LAW,

iir

filterwards by forfeiture j now by fine and' jmptUonment,

and incapacity to give testimony. „ To these last naen-
tidned punishments, that of the pillory is added by a law
^f the ^ United States. ^

y. Subornation of peijury is the crime of procuring
another to take such a false oath as constitutes perjury*
It is punished as perjury. ^

r
8. Conspiracy is a crime of deep malignity against
the administration of justice. Not only those, who falsely
and maliciously cause an innocent man to be indicted '
and tried, are properly conspirators ; but those also are
•uch, who conspire to indict a man falsely and maliciously,
whether they do or do not any act in the prosecution of
the conspiracy.* From the description of this critne it is
obvious, that at least two persons are necessary to con-
stitute it. * '

He who is convicted of a conspiracy to accuse another
of a crime which may touch his life, shall have the fol-
lowing judgment pronounced against him: that he shall
lose Hberam legem^ the freedom and franchise of the law,

• 4. BL Com. 137.

i> 1. cong. 2. sess. c 9. & 18.

q By a late act of assembler in Pennsylvania (6. Laws Penn. 513.)
it is provided, that persons convicted of perjury, or subornation of
peijury, shall forfeit and pay any sum not exceeding five hundred
dollars, and suffer imprisonment and be kept at hard labour during
^ny term not exceeding seven years i; and fiirtiber, shall thereafter
be disqualified from holding any office of honour, trui^ or profit in
ttie commonwealth, and from bejtig admitted as a legal witness ia
any cause. £d.

r 4. BL Com. l^r.

• 1. Haw. 189.

t Id. 193.

lis LE€TURES ON LAW.

by \rhich he is disqualified to be a juror or a witness, or
even to appear in a court of justice : that his houses and
lands and goods shall be forfeited during his life : that
his trees shall be rooted up, his lands shall be wasted*
his houses shall be rased, and his body shall be imprison*-
cd« This is commonly called the villainous judgment •
and is given by the commoo law. ^ By that law, aU con*
federacies whatever wrongfully to prejudice a third pw-
son are highly criminal. ^

9. Common barratry is another offence against 4he
administration of justice. A common barrator is a com* '
mon mover, or exciter, or maintainer of suits or quarrels^
either in courts, or in the country. One act only wiB
not constitute a barrator. He must be charged as a
common barrator. ^ He is the common nuisance of soci-
ety under a civil government.

A common barrator is to be .fined, imprisoned, and
bound to his good behaviour : if he be of the profession
of the law, he is also to be further punished by being
disabled, in future, to practise. *

10. At common law, the embezzling, defacing, or
altering of any record, without due authority, was a
crime highly punishable by fine and imprisonment. ^

By a law of the United States, if any person shall
feloniously steal, take away, alter^ falsify, or otherwise
avoid any record, writ, process, or other proceedingi^

« 1, Haw. 193. V W. 19a w Id. 243. '

X Id. 244. y Id. 112.

LECTURES ON LAW.
in any of the cojUrts of the United States, by means of
which any judgment shall be reversed, made void^ or
not take e^ect ; such person shall be fined not exceed-
ing five thousand dollars, or ijmprisoned not exceeding
seven years, and whipped not exceeding thirty nine
stripes. *

\

11. To obstruct the execution of lawful process, is a
crime of a very high and presumptuous nature : to ob«
struct an arrest upon criminal process, is more particu*
larly so. It has been holden, that the party opposing such
an arrest becomes a partner in the crime— an accessory^
in felony, and a principal in treason. *

By a law of the United States, if any person shall
knowingly and wilfully obstruct, resist, or oppose any
officer of the United States in serving or attempting to
serve any mesne process or warrant, or any rule, or order
of any of the courts of the United States, or any other '
legal or judicial writ or process whatsoever ; or shall
assault, beat, or wound any officer, or other person duly
authorized, in serving or executing any such writ, rule,
order, process, or warrant ; he shall be imprisoned not
exceeding twelve months, and fined pot exceeeding three
hundred dollars.**

12. When one is arrested upon a criminal process, it
is an offence even to escape from custody ; and this offence
may be punished by fine and imprisonment. ^ But if an

I Laws U. S. 1. coBg. 3. sess. c. 9. s. 15.
^ 4.BL Com. 139. 2. Haw. 121.
^ Laws U. S. 1. cong. 2. sess. c. 9. s. 22.
« 2. Haw. 122.
LECTUKLS OV LAW.

officer, or a private person, who has the custody of ao*
other, permhs him to escape, either by neg^gence^ or,
still more, by comiivance i such officer cm* private person
is ctdpable in a much higher degree. He has not the
natural desire of liberty to tempt — he has official obligab-
tions to prevent it. If he permits it through negligence,
he may be punished by fine : if he permits it by consent
or connivance, his conduct is generally agreed to amount
to the same kind of crime, and to deserve the same degree
of punishment, as the crime of which the prisoner is
guilty, a&d for which he is committed ; whether trespass,
or feloi^t <^ treason. *

13. To break a prison was, at the common law,, a
capital crime, whatever might have been the cause, for
wMch the person Ix^aking it was committed. The rea-
son assigned was«-4nterest r^ipublicas ut carceres sint in
tuto.^ Seldom is there reason to complain of the com-
mon, as- of a rigorous law. In this instance, however,
f^etc It unquestionably reason for complaint* The Miiv
four complains of it as a hard law. Its severity was
moderated by a statute made in the reign of Edward the
second.* By- that statute, the l)reaking of a prison is
not a capital crime, unless the par^ breaking it wso^
committed for a capital crime. But to break prison,
when lawfully committed for an inferiour offence, is a
misdemeanor, and may be punished with fine and im-
prisonment. ^ ."

14* A rescue is the freeing of another, by force, from
imprisonment, or from an arrest. In the person rescuing,

^ 2. Haw. 138. « Id.134. 1. Hale. R C. 590.

« 2. Ids. 589. fi Id. ib.SL 1. Ed.3. i. 3.

h 3.Haw. 128. 4.BLCom. 131.

LECTVRK8 ON LAW. 121

It is generaUy the same crime, as a breach of prison
would have been in the person breaking it. There is,
however, one exception : a person, who is committed for
treason and breaks the prison, is guilty of felony only :
he, who rescues him, is guilty of treason. ^

By a law of the United States, J if any person rescue
one« convicted of a capital crime, the person rescuing
shall be punished capitally : if he rescue one committed,
for, but not convicted of a capital crime, or one com-
mitted for, or convicted of a crime not capital ; he shall
be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, and im-
prisoned not exceeding one year.

1 5. Offences against the courts, have always been consi-
dered as offences against the administration of justice.
By the ancient common law before the conquest, to
strike or to draw a sword in them, was a capital crime :^
and the law still retains so much of the ancient severity,
as only to exchange the loss, of life for that of the offend-
ing limb.

Ify while the courts in Westminster hall are sitting ;
or if, before justices of assize, or justices of oyer and
terminer, any one shall draw a weapon upon any judge,
though he strike not ; or if he strike a juror or any other
person, with or without a weapon ; he shall lose his right
hand, shall forfeit all his goods and all the profits of his
lands during his life, and shall suffer perpetual imprison-
ment. 1

i 3. Haw. 139. 140. 3 1. Cong:. 2. seas. c. 9. s. 33.

k a. Ins.140. 1 1. Haw. 57. 3. Ins. 14«.

VOL. III. R

» "

/

^N

CHAPTER VIIL

aamm

OT THE PE1180NS CAPABLE OF COMMITTING CRIMES ;
AND OF THE DIFFEllENT DEGREES OF GUILT INCUR*
RED IN THE COMXIfiSIOK OF THE SAME CRIME.

X HAVE DOW eDUBierated the crimes and offences
kuowa to the comoHm law ; and have stated their punish*
ments, as inflicted either by that law, or by positive
statutes of the United States or of Pennsylvania.

•
When we come to a retrospect of this enumeration
of crimes and punishments, we shall find that it is fruit-
ful of much instruction, both of the speculative and of
the practiced kind^ At present, let us 'consider who ai«
capable and who are not capable of committing crimes*
The general rule is, tnat all are enable of committing
them^. Thi^ general rule wiU be best illustrated and
proved hy ascertain^ its exceptions. W^ have seen
already, that the common law mteasures crimes chiefly
by the intention. The intention necessarily supposes
the joint operiklions of the imderalanding and the will.

>

124 , LECTURES ON LAW.

If the operation of either is wanting^ no crime can exist.
In ideots, at all times ; in Ivinaticks, except during their
lucid intervals ; and in infants, till they arrive at the age
of discretion, the operation of the understanding is want-
ing. In ministerial officers, in wives, in persons under
duress, the operation of the will is frequently presumed,
by the law, to be wanting. In all such cases, the law im-
putes not criminality of intention.

On this subject, I cannot now enter into a detail :
suffice it to have mentioned the general principles, accord-
ing to which the particular cases are classed and deter-
mined.

In the commission of the same crime, the law often
distinguishes different degrees of guilt. One may be a
principal or an accessory : a principal may be so in the
first or in the second degree : an accessory may be so
before or after the fact. In some crimes, there are no
siccessories ; in others, there are none before the fact*

The part acted by a principal is coexistent with the
commission of the crime : the part acted by an accessory
is antecedent or subsequent to it.

A principal in the first degree, is he who personally
perpetrates the crime : a principal in the second degree,
is he who is present, aiding and abetting it. ^

An acce;3Sory before the fact is he who, though ab-
sent when the crime was committed, yet procured, coun-
selled, commanded, or abetted the commission of k;^

"^ 1. Hale. P. C. 615. kId.ibi<L

, \

lictxjues oh law. tti

an accessory after the fact is he who, knowing a crime
to be committed, receives, relieves, comforts, or assists
'the crimmal.^ "

In treason, there arc no accessories either before or
after the fact ; for all consenters, aider's, abettors, and
inowing receivers and comforters of traitors, are them*
selves principals. As to the course of proceeding, how-
ever, those who actually committed the treasonable fact,
should be tried "before those who consented or aided :
for,^^ in a contrary course of proceeding, this inconvenience
might follow, that those who, in other crimes, would be
principals in the second degree, might be convicted, and
afterwards those who, in other crimes, would be princi-
pals in the first degree, might be acquitted. This most
evidently would be absurd. ,

In trespass, and in cripies not felonious, all those who^
in felonious crimes, would be accessories before the fact,
are deemed principals; and those who, in felonious
crimes, would be accessories after the fact, are not con-
sidered as having committed any offence. ^

The distinction between accessories after and accesso-
j-ies before the^ fact, and between aiccessories and princi-
pals, ought to be carefully and accurately preserved : for
in many cases, there is a real difference between the de-
grees of guilt, and a proportioned difference ought^to be
established, where it is not already established^ between
the degrees of punishment.

The distinction between principals in the first and
those in the second degree, though preserved in theory,

1. Hale,, P. C. 618. ^ Id, 618. eld. ibid.

wd sometimes m the course of proceedings on the trial, is^
Xievertheless, lost universally in the scale of punishments.
He who watches, at a distance, to prevent a surprise^
which might defeat the execution of a concerted plan, ia
punished equally with him, who, in the execution of it,
uses the assassinating poignard, not necessary, not ge-
nerally i|)tended> but deemed solely by him who uses it
aSf in some measure, contributing to the principal and
the conperted purpose. In such an-immense disparity of
gi^ilt, there ought to be a disparity of punishment.

These reflections receive support from considerations
of utility, as well as from those of intrinsick justice.
When, a number confederate in a common enterprise,
jNrhose supposed advantages are to be equally participated.
It is their effort to share ^nly an equal proportion of the
danger, as they are to receive only an equal proportion of
the gain. This effort, instead of being countenanced by
measuring the same punishment to all who act any part
in the concerted enterprise, should be counterworked by
graduating the punishment according to the part which
each has acted. If the principal^ who personally perpe-
trate^ the crime — ^for there is generally a capital part
to be acted by some one — is distinguished, in punishment,
from those who are only present, aiding and abet-
ting the common adventure ; this will increase the diffi-
culty pf finding one, who will act this capital and con-
spicuous part; as his danger will become greater in
proportion to, the greater severity of his punishment.

•

Besides; where there is society in danger, there is
society in exertion ; for even in criminal enterprises the
social nature is not lost* Let one be selected, solitary^
to perpetrate a crime and to suffer a punishment, in the

LEOTURSS ON LAW. 127

paia and guilt of which none are to be involved but him-
self ; he will no longer be buoyed up on a' fluid surround-
ing him at an equal level ; and as it sinks down from
him, he will sink down to it. Among associates in
crimes, the law should sow the seeds of dissension.

Misprision consists in the concealment of a crime,
which ought to be revealed, r

By a law of the United States, misprision of treason
is punished with* a line not exceeding a thousand dollars,
and imprisonment not exceeding seven years ; ^ and mis-
prision of felony, with imprisonment not exceeding three
years, and a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars.

The receiving of goods, known to be stolen, is a high
misdemeanor at the common law. By a law of the United
States, it is punished in the same manner as larceny. ^

Theft-bote, or the receiving again of one's goods
which have been stolen, or other amends, upon an agree-
ment not to prosecute, was formerly held to render one
an accessory to the larceny : it is now punished only with
fine and imprisonment. But merely to receive the goods
again is no offence, unless some favour be shown to the ,
thief. .

On the subject, concerning principals and accessories,
as well as on the former, concerning the incapacity of
guilt, I cannot now enter into a detail : suffice it here,
as it sufficed there, to mention the general principles
which will govern and illustrate the particular instances.

^ 3. Ins. 36. 4. BL Com. 119. « Laws U. S. 1. con. 2. aess. c 9. s. 2.

kids. 6. iM.g.ir. M.Haw.l25.

/

I.

CHAPTER IX.

OF THE DI&ECT MXANB 0SED BY THE LAW TO PXEVEIfT

OPFENCES.

■
X SHOULD now, according to my general plan, "point
out the different steps, prescribed by the law, for appre-
hending, detaining, trying, and punishing offenders.'' But
it will be proper first to consider a short, though a very
interesting, title of the criminal law— *the direct means
which it uses to prevent offences.

These are, security for the peace ; security for the good
behaviour ; and the peaceful, but active and authoritative
interposition of every citizen, much more of everj^ publick
officer of peace, to prevent the commission of threatened,
or the completion of inchoate crimes.

1. Security for the peace consists in being bound,
alone, or with one or more sureties, in an obligation for
an ascertained sum, with a condition subjoined that the

VOL* JXI« 8

130 LECTURES ON LAW.

obligation shall be void, if the party shall, during the time
limited, keep the peace towards all the citizens, and par-
ticularly towards him, on whose application the security
is taken**

Whenever a person has just cause to fear that another
will kill, or beat, or imprison him, or bum his house, or
will procure others to do such mischief to his person or
habitation ; he may, against such person, 4emand securi^
for the peace ; and eyery justice of the peace is bound to
grant it, when he is satisfied, upon oath, that the party
demaading it is, and has just reason to be, under such fear ;
and that the security is not demanded from malice, nor
for vexation. ^ Upon many occasions, a justice of the
peace may officially take security for the peace, though no
one demand it. He may take it of tl>ose who, in his pre^
sence, shall make an affray, or shall threaten to kill or beat
any person, or shall contend together with hot words, or
shall go about with unusual weapons or attendants, to the
terrour of the citizens. ^

If the party to be bound is in the presence of the
justice, and will not find such sureties as are required f
he may be immediately committed for his disobedience,
and until he find them : but if he is absent, he cannot be
committed without a warrant to find sureties. 'I'his war-
rant should be under seal, and should mention on whose
application, and for what cause, it is granted, d

The obligation or recognisance to keep the peace may
be forfeited by any actual violence to the person of an-*

,, 1. Haw. 129. 4. Bl.€om. 249. ^ 1. Haw. IST.

* Id. 426. 4 14, 135.

LECTURES ON LAW.
•ther, tvhether don^ by the party himself, or by others
through his procurement : it maybe forfeited by any un-
lawful assembly to the terrour of the citizens ; and even
by words tending directly to a breach of the peace, as by
challenging one to fight, or, in his presence, threatening
to beat him. But it is not forfeited by words merely of
heat and choler; nor by^a bare trespass on the land^ or
goods of anotjher, unaccompanied with violence to his
person. • ,

. I

2. Security for the good behaviour includes security
for the peace and more j but they are of great affinity with
each other ; and both may be contained in the same re-
cognisance. It is not easy, upon this subject, to find
precise rules for the direction of the magistrate : much is
left to his own discretion; It seems, however, that he
may be justified in demanding this security from those,
vrhose characters he shall have just reason to suspect as
scandalous, quarrelsome, or dangerous.

It has been said, that whatever is a good cause for
* binding a man to his good behaviour, will be a good cause
likewise to forfeit his recognisance for it. But this rule
is too large. One is bound, to prevent what may never
happen: he is bound for giving cause of alarm ; not for
having done any mischief. His recognisance, however,
may certainly be broken by the commission of any actual
misbehaviour, for the prevention of which it was taken, f

3. I have mentibned the peaceful, but active and au-
thoritative interposition of every citizen, much more of
every publick officer of the peace, is a nieans for prevent-

•» • /

c 1. Haw. 130. 131.

Ud. 129. 131.

132 LECTURES ON LAW. ' ♦^

ing the commission o£ threatened, and the cotiTpletion of
inchoate crimes. This subject has not received the atten-
tion, which it undoubtedly merits ; nor has it b'een viewed
in that striking light, in which it ought to be considered.

In every citizen, much more in every publick officer
of peace and justice, the whole authority of the law is
vested — ^to every citizen, mu<;h more to every publick
officer of peace an4 justice, the whole protection of the
law is extended, for the all-important purpose of prevent-
ing crimes. From every citizen, much more from every
publick officer of peace and justice, the law demands the
performance of that duty, in performing which they are
clothed with legal authority, and shielded by legal pro*
tection.

The preservation of the peace and the security of
society has, in every stage of it, been an object peculiarly
favoured by the. common law. To accomplish this object>
we can trace, througlj the different periods of society,
regulations suited to its different degrees of simplicity, or
of rudeness, or of refinement.

The much famed law of deeennaries, by which, in
small districts, all were reciprocally bound for the good
behaviour of all, was well adapted to the age of the ^eat
Alfred, when commerce was little known, and the habits
and rules of enlarged society were not introduced.

In times more turbulent, precautions for the security
of the citizens were taken, more fitted to those turbulent
times. The statute of Winchester, made in the thirteenth
year of the reign of Edward the first, contains many
regulations upon this subject ; but they were regulation&

LECTURES OH LAW. 133

for enforcing the " ancipnt police" of the kingdom;' and
* their design is expressly declared to have been, to prevent
the increase of crimes ; or, in the language of that day,
** to abate the power of felons."

Fbr the purposes of prevention, it was directed, that,
in great walled towns, the gates should be shut from the
setting to the rising of the sun : that, during that <time,
watches, as had been ybrw^r/j/ used, should, in proportion
to the number of inhabitants, watch continually : that if
any stranger passed by, these watches should arrest and
detain^him till the morning: and that if any one resisted
the arrest, hue and cry should be raised ; and those, who
kept watch, should follow the hue and cry from town to
town, till the offender was taken. Every week, or at least
every fifteenth day, the bailiffs of towns were obliged to
make inquiry concerning all who lodged in the suburbs ;
and if they found any who lodged or received persons,
of whom it was suspected that they were " persons
against the peace," they were to do what was right in
the matter. J*

The hue and cry was an institution of the common
law : the Mirrour, speaking of the ancient laws before the
conquest, makes express mention of pursuit from town to
town at the hue and cry« The passage is very remark-
able, and deserves, on many accounts, to be transcribed ,
at large. It is a part of that section which has for it«
title — ^^ the first constitutionis ordained by the ancient
kings, from King Alfred." Among others are introduced
the following articles — " Every one of the age of fourteen
years and upwards shall be ready to kill capital offenders

, 1. Reev. 442. ^ St 13. Ed. 1. c. 4.

134 LECTURES ON LAW.

•

ifi their notorious crimes, or to pursue them from towA
to town at hue and cry." " If they can neither kill nor
apprehend them, they shall take care to have them put in
the exigent, in order that they may outlaw or banish them
in the following manner," &c. *

If a man, who is under a recognisance \o keep the
peace, beat or fight with one who attempts to kill any
stranger ; it is not a forfeiture of his recognisance.^

If, as we have seen upon a former occasion, ^ a person
who interposes to part the combatants in a sudden affray,
and gives notice to them of his friendly intention, be
assaulted by them or either of them, and, in the struggle,
should happen to kill ; this wiH be justifiable homicide.
On the other hand, if this person be killed by the com-
batants, or either of them, it will be murder. To preserve
the publick peace, and to prevent miichref, it is the duty
of every man, in su<:h cases, to interpose.

/
When the law enjoins a duty, it both protects and

.authorizes the discharge of it. Ministers of justice, it
will be admitted on all hands, are, while in the execution
of their offices, under the peculiar protection of the law.
Without such protection, the publick peace and tranquil-
lity could not, by any means, be preserved. But this
peculiar protection of the law is not confined personally
to one, who is a minister of justice : it is extended to all
those who come in aid of him, and afford their assistance
for the preservation of the peace. Even all those who
attend for that purpose are under,the same protection. It

i 4. Coil Ang. Norm. 487. J 1. Haw. 131.

^ Ante. p. 85.86. ^ Fost.275.

LECTURES OM LAW.

13S

is immaterial whether they were orVere not commanded
to rendcfr their service upon the occasion. This peculiar
protection of the law extends still farther. It reaches to
private persons who, though no minister of justice be pre-
sent, interpose for preventing mischief in the case of an.
affray. They are in the discharge of a duty which the
law requires. The law is their warrant ; and they ma;^
justly be considered as persons employed in the publick
* service, and in the advancement of justice, m

If so, in the case of an affray,, in which, on each side,
the same disposition is shown ; much more so, in a case
of premeditated, concerted, planned, prepared, riotous^
felonious, and treasonable outrage, on one side — connived
at, perhaps countenanced, by those in the administration
of the government. In such a case, the legal duty, the
legal authority, and the legal protection operate with ten-
fold energy and force. In such a case, the law may well
be said to throw herself, without reserve, upon the arms
of the citizens. In such cases, the citizens, with open
arms, are bound to receive her, and to give her that pro-
tection, which, in return, she confers upon them.

'The application of this important principle of preven-
tive justice is admirably fitted to small, as well as to tjie
greatest occasions. If it was strictly made upon all occa-
sions, the benefits redounding to society would be im-
mense. The petulant ill nature of the boy, the quarrel-
some temper of the man, the rapacious aim of the robber,
and the malignant disposition of the assassin, would be
, immediately checked in their operations. The principles

m Fo8t.309.

1S6

LECTURES ON LAW.

themselves, unsupplied "with fuel to inflame them,^wouldy
at last, be extinguished.

Thus much for the means, which the law employs
directly for thd benevolent purpose of preventing crimes.

^

CHAPTER X.

Of THE DIFFERENT STEFS- PRESCRIBED BY THE LAW,
FOR APPREHENDING, DETAINING, TRYING, AND PU-
NISHING OFFENDERS.

\
I

A NOW proceed to the diiFerent steps which the law
prescribes fot apprehending, detaining, trying, and pu«
nishing criminals.

A warrant is the first step ufluaUy taken for their ap- .
prehension.

A warrant is a precept from a judicial to a ministerial
officer of justice, commanding him to bring the person
mentioned in it, before him who issues it, or before some
other officer having judicial authority in the cause. * Thi^
warrant should be under the hand and seal of the ma*
gistrate issuing it : it should mention the time and place
of making it, and the cause for which it is granted. It

• Wood. Lw. 81. 1. Bl. Com. 137. 4» BL Com. 287.
VOL. HI. T

('

131 LKCToaet on lAir.

' - %

may be either to bring the party jneneralfy before any
magistrate, or specially to bring him before the aoagis-
trate only who grants it. It may be directed to the
sheriiT, constable, or to a private person ; for the warrant
constitutes him, for this purpose, an authorized officen^

By the constitution of Pennsylvania,^ no warrant to
seize persons shall issue without describing them as
nearly as may be, nor without probable cause supported
fay oath or affirmation. Such warrant may be granted^
even by any justice of the peace, for treason, felony, or
any other offence against the peacc^

When the warrant is received by the person to whom
it is directed, he is authorized, and, if a pubtick officer,
obliged to execute it, so far as the jurisdiction of the
magistrate and himself extends. « ^ sheriff may depute
others; but every other person is obliged himself to
execute it ; though others may lawfully assist him. A
wan-ant directed to all cons^a^les generafiy can fae exe-
cuted by each only in iiis own precinct : but a warrant
directed to a particular constable by name, may be exe-
cuted by him any where within the jurisdiction of tke
magistrate* ^ *

, The execution of the warrant is commenced by an ar-
rest; which is the apprehending or restraining of the
person, whom it mentions or describes. ' But, besides
those arrests which are made in the execution of warrants,'
there are others enjoined or justified by the law.

b2.HaWia5. e Art 9. 8.8. <iS.iiaw.84.

« i. BL Com. 388. c 2. Haw. 86. s 4. BL Com. 386.

»

LECTVllES OH LAW. IM

All) of age, who are fH*esexit when a felony is com-
mitted, or when a dangerous wound is given, are, on
^TLiti of fine and imprisonment, bound to apprehend the
{>er8on who has ddne the mischief. ^ If the crime has
been committed out of their view, they are, Upon a hue
and cry, oUiged to pursue with the utmost diligence,
and endeavour to apprehend him who has committed it.
Hue and cry is the pursuit of an offender from place to
place, iiU he is taken : all who are present when he com-
mits the crime, are bound to raise it against him On his
flying for it. £very one is obliged to assist an officer
demanding his assistance, in order to apprehend a felon^
to suppress sm affray> or to secure the persons of affray-
ers*^ In all these cases, the doors of houses may, if
necessary, be broken open for the apprehension of the
offenders, if admittance is refused on signifying the cause
«f demanding it. ^

It Is a general rule, that, at any time, and in any
place^ every private person is justified in arresting a
traitor or a felon ; and, if a treason or a felony has been
committed, he is justified in arresting even an innocent
person, upon his reasonable suspicion that by such per^
son it has been committed. ^ If one see another upon
the point of committing a treason or a felony, or doing
any ^ct which would manifestly endanger the life of ano-
ther 'r he may lay hold on him, and detain him till it may
be presumed reasonably that he has altered his design. '
In the case of a mere breach of the peace, no private
person can arrest one for it after it is over. "*

^ ^ % Haw. 74. i Id. 75. J Id. 86. 4. Bl. Com. U%

* 2. Haw. 76. > M. 77. » Id> ibid.

14f LECTURES ON LAW*

Whenever aui arrest may be justified by a private
person, it may a fortiori be juscified by an officer of jus-
tice. " In addition to their own personal exertionsvthej
have a right to demand the assistance of others* ° A
copstal)le may not only arrest affrayers, but may also de*
' tain them till they find security for the peace, p A justice
of the peace may, by parol, authorize any one to arrest
another, who, in his presence, is guilty of an actu^
breach of the peace, or, in his absence, is engaged in a
riot, ^

Whenever a person is arrested for a crime, he ou^t
to be brought before a justice of the peace, or other ju-
dicial magistrate. This magistrate is obliged immediate-
ly to examine into the circumstances of the crime alleged;
and according to the result of this examination, the
person accused should be either discharged, or bailedi
or committed to prison.

If it clearly appear that no crime was committed, or, if
committed, that the suspicion conceived against the pri-
soner is entirely unfounded ; he should be restored to
his liberty. *"

To bail a person is tp deliver him to his sureties, who
give sufficient security for his appearance : he is intrusted
to their friendly custody, instead of being committed
to the confinement of the gaol. At the common law,
every man accused or even indicted of treason or of any
felony wh&tevef, might be bailed upon good surety : for
at the common law, says my Lord Coke,' the. gaol was

» 2. Haw. 80. o Id. 81. P IdL ibid.

*Id.»3. 'Id.8r. "2.108.189,

LECTURBS ON LAW. t4|

Ilis {dedgC) who jcould find no other : he could be bailedf
till he was convicted.

. This pdrt of the common law, however, is, in Eng-
land, greatly altered by parliamentary provisions, which
restrict, in numerous instances, the power of admitting
to bail. Indeed it is pbvious, that between the taw of

s

capital punishments and .that of commitments, the con-
nexion must be intimate and inseparable. In capital of-
fences, no. bail can be a security equal to the actual cusp
tody of the person : for what is ther^, which a man majr
aot be indueed to forfeit to save Tiis life ? '. One court iii
£ngland, and only one — ^the court of king's bench, or, in
the time of the vacation, any judge of that court-r-«tiU
possesses the discretionary power of bailing in any case,
according to its circumstances; excepting only such
per^i^s as are committed by either house of parlis^ment,
while the session lasts, and such as are committed for
contempts by any of the superiour courts of justice.^

To refuse or to delay bail, where it ought to b<; grant-
ed, is a misdemeanor at the common law, ^ and may
be punished on an indictment. By the, constitution of
Pennsylvania,"^ it is declared, as an .inviolable, rule^
*' that excessive bail shall not^be required ;". and *^ that
all prisoners shall be bailable by sufficient sureties ; un-
less for capital offences, when the proof is evident or
presumption great."

If the crime is not bailable, or if the prisoner can-
not find sureties, the magistrate is under the disagreea-

t 4. Bl. Com. 294. n Id. 296.

^ 2. Haw. 90. "^ Art 9. s. IS, 14.

1451 £2CTt7RES ON LAW* -

*

ble necessity of ordei-ing, by a warrant under his hascA
and seal and containing the cause of the order, that he
shall be imprisoned in the publick gaol, till he be thence
delivered by the due course of law.^ This is a com*
Biitment.

This, imprisonment, it ought to b^ remembered, is
for the piJK'pose only of keeping, not for that of punish*
ing the priiM>ner : he ought, for this reason, to be treated
with every degree of tenderness, of which his safe cus*
tody will possibly admit. In particular, a gaoler is not
justified, by the law, m fettering a prisoner, unless
Where he is unruly, or where it is absolutely necessary to
prevent an escape. ^ *' Solent prsesides in carcere conti«
nendos datnnare ut in vinculis contineantur ; sed huju8#
modi interdicta sunt a lege, quia career ad continendos,
et non puniendps, haberi debeat." • " Custodes vero
gaolarumpeenam sibi commissts nonaugeant, nee eostoi^
queant ; sed, omni saevitia remota, . pietateque adhibita,
judicia in ipsos promulgata debite exequj|ntur." » Such
is the law of imprisonment, ancient and approved*

. When the party is tafceii, and bailed or Imprisoned;
the next step in order is, to institute a prosecution against
him. This may be done by four different methods-—
by appeal ; by information ; by presentment ; by indict-
ment.

1* An appeal is an accusation by one private person
against another for some crime : it is a private action of

» 4. Bl. Com. 2^. y«.Ins.34,

>Qractl05. a. ^ Fleta. L 1. c 26.

v.

* LECTURES ON LAW. 14&

the party injured, demanding punishment for the injury
which he has suffered : it is also a p'rosecution for the
state, on account of the crime committed against the
publick.^ ' '

In ancient times there were appeals for a breach of
the peace, for a battery, knd for false imprisonment, as
well as 'for more aggravated injuries and drimes ; but
they have been out of use, and converted into actions of
trespass, for many hundred years, c

■

An appeal lies for mayhem, for larceny, for arson,
for rape, for death. It is brought by the party ravished f
robbed, maimed, or whose house was burned ; or by the

^ wife, or, if no wife, by the heir, of the person killed. ^
*An appeal may be brought previous to an indictment ;
and if the defendant be acquitted, he .cannot afterwards
be indicted for the. same crime : if he is foutid j^uilty,
be shall suffer the same punishment as if he had been
convicted on a prosecution by an indictment. ^ An appeal
may be discharged by the concurrence of all the parties
interested-^by the pardon of the crown, and by the release

- of the appellant*

The appeal can be traced to the ancient forests of
Germany. '* Luitur homicidiuda,** says Tacitus,*^ " cer-
to armentorum ac pecorum numero ; recipitque satisfac-
tionem universa domus."

^^ 4 Bi C©m. 308. 2. Haw. 155. « 2, Haw. 15?.

^ 2. Haw. 164t 4. Bl. Com. 310. « 4. Bl. Com. 3iL

^ ^ 1. Hate« P. C 9. s De mor. Gcr. c. 2L

/
144 l£GTUR£S ON LAW.

On this subject there is, in our la^ books, an immense
profusion of professional learning. As the appeal is now
but little used, I decline any minute inquiry concerning
it : as it is still in force, it would have been improper
wholly to have omitted it;

2. A second mode of prosecuting crimes and offences
is by information. Some informations are brought partly
at the suit of the state, and partly at the suit of a citizen^
These are a species of qui tarn actions; and will be con-
sidered when we treat concerning civil suits.

Informations in the name of the state or of the crown
alone are of two kinds : those which are filed ex qffici9
by the publick prosecutor, and are properly at the suit of
. the publick ; and those which are carried on in the name,
indeed, of the commonwealth or crown, but, in fact, at
the ins|:ance of some private person or common informer.
The first have been the source of much ; the second have
been the source of intolerable vexation : both were the
ready tools, by using which Empson and Dudley, and
-an arbitrary star chamber, fashioned the proceedings
of the law into a thousand tyrannical forms. Neither?
indeed, extended to capital crimes : but ingenious tyranny
can torture in a thousand shapes, without depriving the
person tortured of his life.

;

Restraints have, in England, been imposed upon the
last species : but the first — those at the king's own suit,
filed by his attorney general — are still unrestrained.^
By the constitution of Pennsylvania, both kinds are eflfec*

h 4. BL Com. 303. i Id. Ser. ' ' *

LXCTURES OW LAV^. 145

tually removed.' By that constitution, however, informa-
tions are still suffered to live : but they are bound and
gagged* They are confined to official misdemeanors ;
and even against those, they cannot be slipt but by Ibave
of the court. By that constitution, ^^ no person shall, for
any indictable offence, be proceeded against criminally by
information^' — ^" unless by leave of the court, for oppr ei«
sion and misdemeanor in office." . Militar}^ cases are
also excepted.

X

• 3. Presentment is a third species of prosecution. A
presentment, in its most -extensive signification, compre*
hends inquisitions of office, of which the coroner's inquest
is one: it comprehends likewise regular indictments,
which are preferred and found. But, in its proper sense,
it is an accusation found by a grand jury, of their own
•motion, and from their own knowledge and observation,
without any bill being laid before them by the prosecutor
for the publick. This presentment is afterwards reduced
-into proper form by the publick prosecutor; and in this
form is sent to the grand jury, in the sangie manner asbiUii
nvhich are originally preferred to them by that officer.
These bills and this presentment, found in form, are
indictments.

When the grand jury, after having heard the evidence
'adduced to support a bill, think it insufficient for this pur-
pose, they endorse on the bill "ignoramus," and direct th6
foreman to sign this endorsement. By this endorsement
it is meant, that though the matters charged in the bill may
be true, their truth is not sufficiently evinced to the jury.
If the charge in the bill appears to be supported, it is

1 J Art. 9. 9. 10.
VOL. III. V

s

*

"Vt

146 LECTUEES ON LAV.

then emlorsed ^ a true bill/' and as such is signed bjr the
foreman.

V

/
A grand jury must consist of at least twelve members,
because twelve are necessary — ^it must not consist of more
than twenty three members, because twelve are sufficient,
to find an indictment ; and twelve would not be a majority
of a greater number.

At the common law, ^ grand jury caanot find an indict-
ment f(H* any crime, but such as has been committed
within the county or precinct^ for which they are re*
turned. ^

A bill cannot be returned true in part, and false in
{^art ; it must be returned ^^ a true bilP' or *^ ignoramus'^
for the whole. Nor can it be returned specially or con^
ditionsdly. ^ ♦

Much might be said concerning the form of indict-
ments generally, and also concerning the particular form
of the indictment for each particular species of crimes :
but this/klnd o/ learning, ;which, by the by,, ought neither
to be overlooked nor disregarded by the professional
lawyer,. is found in full and minute detail in the nume-
rous books and treatises of the criminal law* To these
I beg leave to reff r you. To go fully into particulars
woi^ld employ too g^eat a proportion of my lectures : to
go imperfectly would convey no information that could
be deemed regular or satisfactoty.

Suffice it to observe, as a general and important prin-
* ciple with regard to indictments, that as to persons, times,

3.Haw.33«. 'Id.Sl«^

•♦.

I*

)

LXCTURtS ON JLAW.
jattd places, and, aboye all, as to the descriptions of crimes,
the most precise certainty which can be reasonably ex-
pected is indispensably required. Certainty, indeed, is
a governing add a pervading quality in all good legisla-
tion;, and in all good administration t>f law. In this very
important quality, the common law, pure and unadulte^
rated, has attained a very uncommon degree of perfection*
I add, that the common law is equally remarkable for the
simplicity as for the accuracy of its forms. I repeat it —
they deserve the cl6se study and att,entioh of every lawyer
hy profession. Even to others, who have leisure and a
taste to inspect minute as well as splendid beauties, the
forms of the common law will aiford entertainment and
instruction.

The' principles of the great institution of g^'and juries
have been explained fully in another place.

When a'person is indicted, and is not already commit-
ted pr under bail, the next step in the legal arrangement
is, to issue ^process against him, in order that he may be
obliged to answer the charge, of which he stands indicted.

On an indictment for any crime under the degree of
treason or felony, the process proper to be first awarded,
at the common law, is a venire facias^ which, from the
very name of it, is only in the nature of a summons to
require the appearance of the party. *" If this process is
not obeyed, and it is seen by the return that he has lands
in the county by which he maybe distrained ; then a dis-
tress shall be awarded against him, from time to time, tilt
he appear. But if the return shows that he iias no lands

•» 5. Haw. 283.

t4B LSt:TUR£S Ofr lAW*

in the copnty ; then a writ of capias is awarded agamtt
him. By 'this writ, as is intimated from its nsrme, the
sheriiF is commanded to take the body of the person
accused, and have him before^ the court at the time and
place specified in the writ itself* If he cannot be taken^
on the first c^ias, .a second^ and so on, shall be issued* ^-
On an indictment for felony or treason, a capias is always
the first proc^s^. **

We are tol4 that, in the case of misdemeanors in
England, it is now the usual practice for any judg^e of the
court of king's bench, upon certificate of an indictment
found, to award a writ of capias immediately agwist the
d^fenda^t* '

1 *

If the party abscond, and cannot be taken ; then, after
the several writs have been issued against hi^ in regular
number according to the nature of the crime with which
he is charged, he is, at five county courts, proclaimed and
required to surrender himself; and if he does not appear
at the fifth requisition;, he is then adjudged to be outlawed
— ^put out of the protection of the law. *

When one is outlawed on an indictment for a misde-
meanpr, he forfeits his goods and chattels. In felony
or treason, outlawry is a conviction and an attainder of
the crime charged in the indictment* ' Any one may ar-
rest an outlaw for those crimes, in order to bring him to
execution. He was formerly said "gerere caput lupinum,"
and might be knocked oh the head like a wolf, by every

n 2. Haw. 28S. ^ Id. 284. P 4. BL Com. 314

« 4. Bl. Com. 314. t U, ibkL S. Hale. P. C. 305.

LECTURJBI OK LAW. 14k

one who met him. But the law is now very justly holden
to be otherwise* As to the security of his person, the
greatest and the most notorious criminal is still under the
protection, though liable to the punishment, of tlhe law*
It is lawAil, as has been said, to apprehend him, in order
to bring, him to legal punishment. But to kill him wan*
tonly, wilfully, or deliberately, merely because he is oxi

outlaw, is murder. '

<•

The proceedings necessary to an outlawry are un<^
commonly circumstantial, and must be exact to the mi-
nutest degree. Indeed^ it is proper that they should be
so. The consequence is, that an outlawry may, in most
instances, be reversed on a writ of errour. When this
is done, the person indicted is admitted to his defence
against the indictment.

When a person indicted comes or is tm>ught before,
the proper court, he is arraigned ; in otl^er words, he is
called upon by his name, the indictment is read to him,
and he Is asked what he has to say in answer to the in-
dictntent.

At this important crisis of his fate, when his life mky
depend upon a word, and when, for this reason, every
word should, as far as possible, be the result of perfect
recollection and freedom, he must not be loaded with
fetters or chains j he must not be brought to the bar in a
contumelious manner ; he ought to be used with all the
humanity and gentleness consistent with the situation, in
which he unfortunately stands ; and he should suffer no
uneasiness, except that which prbceeds from internal

• J. Hale. P. C. 497.
I

I

\

150 UBCTUltEB OK LAW.

causes, ^ The judge should exhort him to answer wfdi*
out fear; and should give him assurance that justice
shall be duly administered. ^ ^ Cum captus coram jus-
ticiariis produciendus fuerit, produci non debet llgatis
manibus (quamvis aliquando compedibus propter pericu^
lum evasionis) et hoc ideo, ne videatur coactus ad ali-
quam purgationem suscipiendam'

M V

Is it necessary to fortify, by authority, the law of hu-
manity ? Sometimes it is. Sometimes the law of huma-^
nity, even when fortified by authority, has been pleaded in
vain. The cruel vidation^as well as the benign observance,
of the principles of goodness and law ought to be known
and marked. The last should be approved and imitated ;
the first should be detested and avoided, i In the pre-
sent enlightened century— -and humanity should surely
attend knowledge— a chief justice of the court of king's
bench suffered a person in irons to be arraigned for trea-
son, before him, though he was informed, that they were
8.0 grievous as to prevent the prisoner's sleeping except
in a singte posture, and that even while he was before
the cQurt, he would be unable to stand, unless the gaoler
—for the gaoler had more bowels than tUe judge — un-
less the gaoler assisted him to hold up his chains. ^

It is usual to desire the prisoner to hold up his hand
when he is arraigned. This formality is not improper^
because it serves to identify the perscw ; it is not neces-
sary, because the person may be identified in. another
manner. My Lord Bacon mefitions a Welshman, who
put a curious construction on this ceremony.

' 3. Haw. 306. " 3. Ins. 316.

VBract 137. a. ^ fi. 'St. Tri. 23t

LSCTVK£8 OH LAW. tSt

been at a court, where he saw the prisoners hold up their
hands at the bar as they severally received their sentences,
he told oqe of his acquaintances that the judge was an
excellent fortune teller ; for if he only looked upon the
hand of a person, he could immediately declare what
would be his fate.

A person, upon being arf aigned, ,must stand mute,
or give an answer.

One is considered as standing mute, when lie gives
no answer at all ; when he gives such an answer as can**
not be received ; and when he pleads not guilty, but, on
being asked how he will be tried, either refuses to
say any thing, or will not put himself upon the coun-
try, y

»

On standing mute, the judgment was indeed a terri*
ble one— ^^ that he be sent to the prison from whence he
came, and put into a dark lower room, and th^re be laid
naked upon the bare ground, upon his back, without any
dathes or rushes \inder him, or to cover him, his legs
and arms drawn and extended with cords to the four cor-
ners of the room, and upon his body laid as great a
•weight of iron as he can bear, and more. The lirst day
he shall have three morsels of barley bread without drinl^ ;
the next day he shall have three draughts of standing
water next the door of the prison, without bread ; and
this to be his diet till he die.'' ' To the execution even
of this terrible judgment some have submitted, that from

forfeiture their estates might be rescued for the benefit

•»

» 3. Ld. Bac. ^9. • ^ 3. Hale. P. C. 316, * Id. 319.

tSt t£CTUR£S ON LAVT*

of tbetr children ; for by standtag mute, for£eilure and
the corruption of blood are prevented.

The origin of the peine fort et dure it is exceedioglj
difficult to trace : it seems^ however^ to be no legitimate
oflFspring of the ancient common law :. by that lav, the
standing mute amounted to a confession of the charge, a

By the law of Scotland, if the pannel stands mute
and will not plead, the trial shall proceed as usual ; and
it is left to him to manage his own defence, as he shall
tKink proper* ^ The spirit of this law i^ adopted by the
legislature of the United States* ^ ^^ If a person indicted
shall stand mute,' the court shall proceed to his trials
as if he had |ileaded not guilty, and shall render judg*
ment accordingly." ^

t

To an indictment^ the prisoner may give an answer^
or plead, as the law terms it, in a great variety of ways*

. I. He may admit the facts, as slated in the indictment,
to be true ; but, at the same time, may deny that die
facts, thus stated and admitted, amount in law to die
crime ch^ged in the indictment. This is a demurrer*
Thus, if one is indicted for larceny committed by steals
ing apples growing on a tree, he may demur to this indict-
ment ; in other words, he may admit that he took the
apples from the tree, but deny that the fact of takiaf

» 4.BL.Coia.323. *> Bar. oa St 97.

c Laws U. S. 1. con. 2. sess. c. 9. s. 3tK

^ A siiKuiar proyision is ccmtained In an act of asasmbljr df Peiui<«
sylvania. 3. Laws Penp. 119. Md.

X.BGTUlt£8 OK LAW.
tiiem amouaits in law to the crime of larceny ; because
ap{de8, unsevered from the tree, are not personal goods ;
and because of personal goods only larceny can be com-
mitted. This demurrer brings regularly Before the court
tJic legal question, whether the facts stated constitute
the crime charged in the indictment. When the prose*
«ut;or joins in diiii demurrer — ^when he avers that the facts
stated constitute the crime charged ; then an issue is said
to be joined. An issue is the resuk of the pleadings in
a single point, denied on one side and affirmed on the
other. It is either an issue in law, such as has now been
mentioned ; or it is an issue in fact, su<:h as will be men-
tioned hereafter.

I
It seems to be taken for granted^ by many respectable

%rriters on the criminal law, that if, on a demurrer to an
mdictment, the point of law is determined against the
|pi4soner, be shall h<ave the same judgment pronounced
against him as if he had been convicted by a verdict*
With regard to crimes not capital this seems to be the
Case: but with regard to capital crimes, no adjudication
is produced in support' of the opinion. My Lord Hale
indeed says, in one place of his valuable history of the
pleas of the crown, that if a person be indicted of felony,
amd demur to the indictment, and it he judged against
him, he shall have judgment to be hanged ; for it is ^
confession, and, indeed, a wilful confession of the in-
dictment.* In another place, however, he tdkes a dis- ^
ttnetion between this kind of confession, which, though
voluntary, is stiO extrajudicial, and that fuH and solemn
confession, which will by and by be mentioned* An ex-

e 3. Hale. P. C. Sir.

TOL. III.

ISA X.KCTU&E8 OMXAW.

^trajudicial confession, says he, though it be in court, m
where the prisoner freely discloses the fact, and demands
the opinion of the court whether it be felony, will not
be recorded by the court, even if, upon the fact thus
disclosed, it appear to be felony ; but he will still be ad-
mitted to plead not guilty to the indictment. ^ Thore
seems to be a solid reason for this distinction : for though
a demurrer admits the truth of the facts as stated in the
indictment, yet it cannot be considered as an explicit
and solemn confession of what is more . materild^-thc
criminal and felonious intention, with which the fads
were done* This criminal and felonious intention is the
Tery point or gistj as the law calls it, of the indictment ;
and should be answered explicitly and directly.

II. This answer may be given by a solemn and judi*-
cial confession, not only of the fact« but of the critne-^^
in the lail^guage of the law, it may be done by pleadin|p
gmlty.

Upon this subject of confession on the part of the
criminal, three very interesting questions arise with re-
spect to capital crimes : for of those only I now speak.
1. Is a confession necessary i 3. Ought it to be made i
3« Ought it to be received as a sufficient foundaticm
for a conviction, and judgment against life i

1« In many countries, his confession is considered as
absolutely indispensable to die condemnation of the cri*
minal. The Marquis of Beccaria conjectures that this
rule has been t^ken from the mysterious tribunal of peia-
' tence, in which the confession of sins is a necessary part

f3.Ha]e.P.C.234u

*

AECTltRSS O^ LAW. 155

i&i the sacrament : thus, says he, have men abused the
unerring light of revelation. ^ This confession they
endeavour to obtain by the oath, and by the torture, of
Ae person accuseds He is obliged to answer interro-
gatories. These interrogatories—^'we are told ; for of
experience on thLs subject we are happily ignorant — ^these
interrogatories are reduced to a system, captious, uncan-
did, and ensnaring; and terrour is frequently ad^ed to
fraud. >» The practice of demanding the oath of the
accused is said, by the fanious President de Lamoig-
non, to have derived its origin from the- customs of the
mquisition. ^

Very opposite, upon this subject, is the genius of the
Gentoo code* In that very ancient body of law, we find
it expressly declared, that wherever a true testimony
would deprive a man of his life ; if a false testimony
would be ^e preservation of it, such false testimony is
lawfulJ

Between thode extremes the constitution of Pennsyl.
rania ^ observes the temperate mean. " In prosecutions
t>y indictment or information, a man canoot be compelled
to give evidence against himselfi" This is likewise an
immemorial and an established principle of the common
law.

In the ease of oaths, says Beccaria, which are admi- ;
ntstered to a criminal to make him speak the truth, when
the contrary is his greatest interest, there is a palpable
contradiction between the laws and the natural sentiments

t Bee c. 16. h 5, War. Bib. 321. ^ 8. War. Bib. 195.
^ Geat. Lawi. 115. ^ Art. 9. s. 9.

15d I.XGT0RBS OH LAW»

of mankind* Can a man think hioMielf obliged to oott^
tribute to his own destruction? Why should he be
reduced to die terrible altemadve of doing this^ or <tf
offending against God i For the law, which, in such m
^ase, jreqirires an oath, leaves hin^ only the choice of being
a bad christian, or of being a mar^r. Such laws, conli*
nues he, are useless as well as unnatural ; tbejr are Uke m
dike opposed directly to< the course of the tcvient : it i»
either immediately overwiielmed, or, by a whir^ool
which itself forms, it is gradually undentttned and de«
stroyed. ^

t
If it is useless, unjust, and unnatural, to attempt the
extracting of truth by means of the oath; whitt is it, to
make this attempt by means of the torture i This, like
the former, is happily unknown to the common law*
This, like the former, can be tracied to the merciless
tribunals of the inquisition. This, like the f<»vier, kttn
been a practice both general and destructive*

To the civil law, its origin has been frequently ascribed.
My Lord Coke, in his third Institute, declares himself
explicitly of this opinion* He says^ that in. the reign of
Henry the sixth, the Duke of £xeter and the Duke of
Suffolk intended to have brought the civil laws into
England; and, for a beginning, first brought into the
tower the rack or brake allowed in many cases by the
civil law. "^ To systems, as well as to men, justice should
be done* From the impuution of a. sanguinary as well
as of a tyrannical spirit, the Roman law, at least in its
brighter agea^ deserves to be rescued. The different
periods in the history of that c^ebrated law should be

tx€*tUM-EB oit law; Uf

»

eai«fully dMtiagtttshed ; and the redtiess or the btadkliestt
of ome era oo^t not to »had^ or staia the purity and thci
iflrplendour of anmhen

' In ihe times of the repuUick, -toraare wa* k»>i«?li at
Itotte ; and this, it must be owned, was too much t<ft M
luiown any where. It was confined, howeter, to the^
slaves. The whok torrent of Cicero's eloquence was
poured indignant upon the infamous Ve^ea, because hbi
had the audacity as well as cruelty to torture a Roman;
citizen, with his eyes turned towards Rome. ^^Cedec-
batur vLrgisi in medio foro Messans civis Jlomanus,
judices i cum interea nuUus gemitus^ nulla vox alia istiua'
miseri, inter dolorem crepitumque plagarum, audebatur,
msi haec, civis Romanus sum." — ^^ O nomenduke lib<&r«
ta^! O jus eximium nostras civitati^! O lex Porcia,
Icgesque Semproni^ ! O graviter desiderata, et ali^ando
neddita plebi Romans^ tribunicia potestas ! HuGcine taa<* *
dem omnia reciderunt, ut civis Romanus, in {M^viacia
populi Rqmani, in oppido fcederatorum, ab eo qiti bette*
ficio populi Romani fasces et secure haberet, detigatua
in fpro virgis caederetur i Quid, cum ignes ardentesqiie
laminae caeterique cruciatus adroovebantur?"" — ** Non fnit
his omnibus iste contentus. Spectet, inquit, patriam : in
conspectu legum Itbertatisque moriatui;." «

In another place, the same exquisite judge of humam
nature and of law describes, in the most masterly manner,
the futility of that kind of proof, which arose from the
tcnture -of slaves. ^^ Quaeationes nobis servorum, ac tor-
menta accusator minitatur; in quibus quanquam nihil
periculi suspicamur, tamen ilia tor mentagubematdblor,

B Cic ia Ter. V. 63. 63. •ld.6C.

tS8 LSCTVftXS Oil LAW.

moderatur natura cujusque turn animi tutn corporis ; re^f
quaesitor, flectit libido, corrumpit spes, infirmat metus^
lit in/tot rerum angustiis nihil veritati loci relinquatur.*' '

About three hundred'years after Cicero, the celebrated
Ulpian; characterized as ** the friend of the laws and of
Ae people," * speaks of torture in the same strain—" Res
est fragilis et periculosa, et quae veritatem fallat. Nam
plerique patientia sive duritia tormentormn ita tormenta
contemnunt, ut exprimi ei^ Veritas nuUo^modo possit :
riii tanta sunt impatientia, ut in quovis mentiri, quam pati
tormenta relint. Ita fit, ut etiam varib modo fateantur,
titaon tantum se, verum etiam alios comminentur." ^

* The earjy chris^ans also bore their testimony' against
the cruel and absurd practice. ** Cum quaeritur,'* says St.
Augustine, ** utrum vir sit nocens, cruciatur ; et innocens
luit pro incerto scelere certissimas paenas ; non quia illud
commisisse detegitur, sed quia non commisisse nescitur ;
igBorantia judicis calamitas innocentis"—** judex torquit
accosatum, ne occidat, nesciens, innocentem ; tortum
et ionoeentem occidit, quem, ne innocentem occiderity
torserat." *

Among the modems, says a sensible French writer,
the practice of torture has been adopted and carried to
the last degree of atroeity, in those countries in whicK
human nature has been most debased and most oppressed
—I mean those of the inquisition : on the contrary, it has
been abolished or moderated in those, in which the human

• F (^c pro. P. SyL c 28. 4 1. Gib. 249.

3.War.Bib.2S» • id.33.

Ll^GTUKEft ON lAW.

tS3

ifiind has reaftsumed her liberty*— in Geneva, in fioglaad,
in France under Lewis the sixteenth, '

• From what has been observed, the inference is clear,
diat the confession of the criminal is mat ne^^edsary to a
conviction or sentence in the case of a capital crime.

2. In the case of a capital crime, ought this ponfesaton
to be made?

I think not. When I say this, I speak with a refe-
rence to $he effect, which this confession is allowed to
have by the common law. I am justified by authority ii»
what I say. From tenderness to life, the court is usually
very averse to the receiving and recording of such a con-
fession ; and will advise the prisoner to retract it, and
plead another plea to the indictment. ** If a person under
the age of twenty one years make this confession, the
court injustice ought not to record it, but should put him
to plead. 710 1 guilty; oi^, at least, ought to inquire by an
inquest of office concerning the truth and circumstances
of the fact. ^ A confession, refused altogether, or received
with reluctance, ought not to be itiade. '

3. Ought this confession to be.received, and consider-
ed as a sufficient foundation for a conviction and judgment
against life i

By the common law, as ttjDow is and as it always ha»
been received, such a confession is deemed a sufficient

» 8. War. Bib. 197. « 3. Hale. P. C. 235. 4 Bl Ctm. 384.
^ l.«alc.P.C.24.

160 imcxvfKEU tm law.

£nindatioii for a cosiricttoii and judgneiit agwist life.
This express, judicta], and direct confessioa is considered
as the highest possible conviction ;^ and after it is made
and received, the coart does and can do nothing.but pro-
' iiounce the judgment of the lav* ^

It now, I apprehend, appears from principle, as it
appeared a fittle while ago from aathoritj, that, coi an
indictment for a capital crime, this express, judicial^ and
direct confession of it ought not to be mode* He who
makes it undertakes to be the aifaiter of his own Hie : for^
as we now see, the judgment of death follows as a coo-
sequence, necessary and unavoidable. A decision of this
very solemn kind ought to be a decision of tike society^
upon the principles formerly explained, and not adect^on
of ^the party himself. For such a decision he many be
unqualified, sometimes -on account of his understandHi^
•Anetimes on account of his disposition. He may'tot be
qyprized of every legal ingredient» which ought to form n
part in the composition of the crime which he cpnileasaea t
human conduct is sometimes inAnenced by an immolnfee
impatience, as well as, at other times, by «m overweemai^
fondness of life.

It is certaiidy time, diat persons have cxwifieased them'*
selves guilty of crimes, of which, indeed, ihey were mno*
cent. A remarkable case of this nature is mentioned in
our law books. A gendeman of the name of Harrison
appeared alive, many yeafis after three persons Jbad been
hanged for his murder ; one of whoon con&sscd it*

7 T>. per Pais. 603w

N

I^ECTURSS OK I.AW* 161

Many persons accused have confessed themselves guiltjr
of witchcraft, and of other crimes equally problejnaticaL

By the civil law, the confession of the person accused
is not sufficient to convict him of a capital crime, without
other proofs : for it may so happen, that such a confession
is dictated only by the inquietude or despair of a troubled
mind*' Another reason may likewise be assigned: he
ttay, by a mistaken as well as by a disordered under*
standing, acknowledge that to be a crime, which in law* it
not that crime.

Thus much for confession, or the plea otgtulty to an
indictmeBt.

III. An indictment may be answered by a plea to tho
jorisdiction of the court, in which it is found. This pleft
is proper when an indictment for any particular crime is
found in a courjt, which has no authority to hear, try, or
determine that particular crime : as if a court of quarter
sessions should arraign one on an indictment for treasoni
of which that court has no jurisdiction* ^

IV. An indictment may be answered by a plea in
abatement — ^in other words, a plea, the design of which
is to destroy the indictment, without answering the crime
-which it charges. This, in some cases, may be very
proper ; as when one is indicted and called to answer by
a wrong name. If he suiFer this mistake to pass unno-
ticed,* it is doubtful whether he may not afterwards be
indicted for the same crime by his right name. If the
|dea be supported, the indictment will be abated ; but be

VO]b» XIX. T

162 I.XCTUESS OK LAV*

niay be immediately indicted anew, by the name which
he has averred to be his true one. ' For in all pleas in
abatement it is a rule, that he who would take advantage
of a^mistake, must show, at the ^me time, how that
mistake may be rectified.

V. An indictment may be answered by a plea in bar*
A plea in bar does not directly deny the commission of
the crime charged ; but it adduces and relies on some
reason calculated to show, that the prisoner cannot be
tried or punished for it, either on that or ea any other
indictment*

«

A former acquittal of the same charge is a plea of thia
kind : for it is a maxim firmly established by the com-
mon law, that no one can be brought in danger oftener
than once on account of the same crime«

A former conviction of the Kime crime is abo a
plea of this .kind ; and depends on the same princi|4e*

An attainder of any capital crime is a good piea in
bar of an indictment for the same, or for any other crime.
The reason is, that by the attainder the prisoner is dead
in law ; his blood is corrupted ; and his estate b f<»r£rift«
ed; so that an attempt to attaint him a second time

would jbe altogether nugatory and superfluous.

»

It is natural and obvious to remark here, bow the
severity of punishn»ent becomes the parent of impunity
for crimes. When one is punished, or conden^ned to be •
punished, as far as he can be punished, f^ one erimei
he may commit another, without any fear or risk of ad-
ditional |Mi&i«hmeiit*

LECTURES ON LAW.
In propCNTtioA as the criminal code becomes leiss"" se-
vere, the operation of the plea of a former attainder,
becomes less powerful ; for it is never proper, unless
when a second trial could answer no purpose.

A pardon is another plea in bar of an indictment ;
for, by remitting the punishment of the crime, it destroys
the ^nd which is proposed by the prosecution. In £ng«
U^ad, an advantage is gained by pleading a pardon, which
cannot be obtained by it after an attainder. A pardon
prevents the corruption, but cannot restore the purity of
blood.

If anyone of these pleas in bar is successful, the
party pleading it is discharged from farther prosecution ;
but if they should all fail, a resource is still left.

VI. An indictment may be answered by pleading
not guilty of the crime which it charges. An issue, you
recollect, is a point denied on one side and ai&rmed on
the other. The plea of not guilty \^ called the general
issue; because, on that plea, the whole charge comes re-
gularly and fully under examination. It is averred by
the indictment : it is denied by the plea. On this plea
akme — such, as we have seen from the foregoing deduc-
tion, is the benignity of the common law^ — on this plea
alone, the prisoner can receive a fin^ judgment against
him. A judgment of acquittal may be produced by
many different causes : but a sentence of condemnation
c^ be founded only on a conviction of guilt.

When the prisoner pleads that he is not guilty ; he
for the tri^ of his plea, puts himself upon his cMintry.
The extensive and the emphatick import of tjiis cxpres-

/

164 lECTURES ON LAV.

ftion, neglected because it is common^ was fuUf iHustra*
ted on another occasion. **

In ancient times, a variety of methods, by v^ich
crimes might be tried, was known to the common law*
. A trial might be had by ordeal ; and this species of trial
was either by fire or by water* The corsned, or morsel
of execration, was another kind of trial. The trial by
battle was a third kind. A fourth kind still remains and
18 our boast— the trial by jury. This trial, both in the
United States and in this commonwealth, is a part of
the constitution as well as of the law.^

The history and the general principles of this institu-
tion, celebrated so long and so justly, have already beenT
explained to you at large. I shall, therefore, confine
myself at present to such remarks, chiefly of a practical
nature, as will arise from the usual course of proceedings
in trials for crimes.

By the constitution of Pennsylvania,^ persons ac-
cused of crimes shall be tried by an impartial jury of
the vicinage : or, in legal interpretation, of the county. ^
By the national constitution,^ crimes committed in any
state shall be tried in that state: and by a law of the
United States, ^ twelve, at least, of the jurors must be
summoned from the very county, in which the crime was
committed.

In the court of king's bench, there is' time aUowed
betweeti the arraignment and the trial, for a jury to be

b Ante. VOLS. p. 311. 351. «Art9.s.9. "^ 3. Hale; P. C Mk
« Art 3. s. S. f 1. cong. 1. stas. c. 2a 8. 39.

!

LECTURES ON LAW. 16S

impanelled by a writ of venire facias directed to the
sheriiF. But justices of oyer and termini and general
gaol delivery, and justices of the quarter sessions < of
the peace, may, by a bare award and without any writ
or precept, haVe a panel returned by that officer t for, in
oonsequetice of a general precept directed to him before-
hand, he returns to the court a panel of jurcH-s to try all
persons, who may be called upon for their trial at that
session. Before such justices, it is usual, for this rea-
srni, to try criminals immediately or soon after their ar«
mignment."

>

Jurors must be " homines liberi et legales^^ men free
and superiour to every legal exception j for every legal
exception is a cause of challenge. My Lord Coke i enu-
merates four such causes-— propter honoris respectum-*
propter defectum — propter delictum — propter aflPectum,
The first cause relates to the peerage solely: the
second is an exception against aliens and minors : the
third is an exception against persons convicted of in-
famous crimes : the fourth is an exception which arises
from' bias or partiality. When this bias is apparent,
the challenge founded on it is a principal one, and
takes effect immediately : when the bias is only pro-
bable, the challenge is only to the favour > and its validity
must be decided by triers, selected by the court for this
purpose, till two are sworn of the jury. 'These two, as
diey are acknowledged or found to be impartial, become
the triers of all the others. .

Besides these challenges for cause, which operate at
frequently as they exist, the benignity of the common

< Woodlns. 666. >" 4. BL Com.,344, 345. 3. Haw. 405. i t ins. 156. b.

f

^ I

%

• I

. 166 LECTURES ON LAW.

« lav allows, as we saw before, every person indicted £ov
a Capital crime to challenge peremptorily, or without
cause, any number of jurors under thirty six — the num-
ber of three juries, i In every capital crime, eaccept
treason, this number is, by a law of the United States,^
reduced to twenty jurors. A person who challenges
more than the number allowed, is, by the same law^ to
be treated as one who stands mute. That treatment we
have already seen. By a law of Pennsylvania, a similar
deduction is made in the number of peremptory chal-
lenges : but he, who challenges more than the number
allowed, shall suffer as a criminal convicted. ^ There is
a great difference between the two provisions : by that
of the United States, the person indicted is treated as
one who must be tried: by that of Piennsylvania, he is
tireated as one, who is already convicted. '^

When an alien is tried, one half of his jury should
be aliens, if he require it. *"

Qn this subject of challenges it is properto observe*
that it seems to have been very familiar in the Roman -
law, during the existence of the commonwealth. In a
criminal process, before the court of the praetor, the ac-
cuser and the accused were each allowed to except against
fifteen of those returned to try the cause. This exception
was denominated ^^ rejectio judicum^^ — ^in the phraseolc^y
of our law, the challenge of the jury* Whenever Cicero

j 3. Haw. 413. k 1. ccmg. 2. sess. c. 9. & 3a > l.Law& Poiik 134w

^ The law of Pe i ms yh rania is now &nilar to that of &e Uailed
Slates. 3. Laws Pc&n. 119. Ed.

> 3.BLCQiiL36a 4.BLCQm.346.3.Haw.49ai.DaiLr3.

LZCTURES ON LAW*
uses the expression — judices ; its legal' 'translation is
— Gentlement of the jury.

Concerning the celebrated trial of Milo, we have a
number of particular facts transmitted to us, which de-
serve our particular notice and attention. On the first
day of the trial, or, as we would say, on the return of
tlie venire JaciaSy the judiceS'-^vrc would say the jur}'—
were produced, that they might be balloted. The next
day, tfiey balloted eighty one persons to make up the ju-
ly. But the accuser had the liberty to challenge fifteen;
and the accused could challenge as many. By these
challenges on both sides, the number of those who were
to give the verdict, was reduced to fifty one. In another
place we have a particular account of the votes given
for, and of those given against, Milo : added together,
they amount to the precise number of fifty one. ^

At Rome, as we have seen on more occasions than
one, prosecutions were considered as the causes of the
accusers, rather than as die causes of the commonwealth*
The procdbdings were regulated by this supposition.
Accordingly, in a criminal prosecution^ the challenge
extended to such persons as either party— ^the accuser as
well as the accused-*-had reason, or thought he had rea-
son, to suspect might be influenced in their verdict by
favour, affection, consanguinity, malice, or any other pas-
sion, which might lead to partiality or a corrupt judgment, p

When a prosecution, as well as the defence of it, was
viewed as the cause of an individual, it might be reason-
able enough that, in this view, the power of challenging

PetonJttrTlli.

Id. 190.

t •

168 JLECTCrllES ON LAW*

«

s
\

jurors should, on both sides, b^ equal. But when a
prosecution is considered as the cause of the comoiunity,
by a part of which community this very cause is to be
tried ; matters now assume a Very different appearance*
This important difference was fully explained in the
account which I gave of the radical principles^ as I majr
call them, of the trial by jury.^ The accused stands
alone on one side : on the other side stand the whole
community: the jury are indeed a selected pzrt; but
still they are a part of the whole community : the |)ower
of challenging, therefore, ought not, on botlisides, to
be equal.

True it is, that, at the common law, the king might
challenge peremptorily, as well as the prisoner* The
distinction between a publick and a private prosechitor was
hot sufficiently regarded* From this characteristick fea-
ture, by the way, a sti^ong intrinsick evidence appears
of the lineage of juries. But equidly true it is, that the
distinction was perceived at an early period,, was then
established — I mean in the reign of Edward the first —
and has been since uniformly observed. ^ In A>nsequence
of this distinction, it has been the law, for many centu-
ries j)ast, that the privilege of peremptory challenges,
though enjoyed by the prisoner, is refused to the king;

If, on account of the number of challenges, or the
non-attendance of the jurors, so many of the panel re-
turned as are necessary to make a jury cannot be had,
the court may award a tales^-^tthers qualified in the same
manner — ^to be added to the panel, till twelve are sworK
to try the cause. •

. Ante. vol. 9. p."" 314. 315. 3. Haw. 4lS. < 4* BL Com, 34&

t

•

LECTURES ON LAW* 16^

'Their oath is — that they will well and truly try and
true deliverance make between the*— United States— «•
and the prisoner at the bar, and a true verdict give ac*
cording to their evidence. After they are sworn, th^
indictment is read, and the issue which they are sworn
to try is stated to them : and then the publick prosecutor
opens the cause, and arranges, in such order as he thinks
most proper, the evidence which is to be offered in sup*
port of the prosecution. ,

But it is a settled rule at the common law, as it is
noxv received in England, that, in a trial for a capital
crime, upon the general issue, no counsel shall be al-
lowed the prisoner, unless some point of law, proper to
be debated, shall arise. By a statute, however, madt
in the reign of William the third, and by another made
in that of George the second, an exception to this gene*
ral and severe rule is introduced, for the benefit of those
who are indicted or iinpeached for treason. ^ This prac*
tice in Eng^nd is admitted to be a hard one, and not to
be very consonant to the rest of the humane treatment
tff prisoners by the English law. Indeed the judges
themselves are so sensible of this defect in their modern
practice, that they generally allow a prisoner counsel
to stand by him at the bar, and instruct him what ques-
tions to ask, or even to ask questions for him.

This practice of refusing counsel to those who are
indicted for a capital crime, is not agreeable to the com-
mon law as it was formerly received in England. The
ancient Mirrour tells us, that, in civil causes, counsel are
necessary to aoanage and to defend them, by die rules of

* 4. Bl Com. 349, 35a
vol. III. z

lyO I.ECTURES ON LAW.

law and the customs of the realm. He adds, with irre-
sistible force, that they are still more necessary to defend
indictments of felony, than causes of a less, important
nature. ^ On this, a^ on many other great and interesting
subjects, we have renewed the ancient common law. It
is enacted by a law of the United States, ^ that persons
indicted for crimes shall be allowed to make their full
defence by counsel learned in the law. It is declared by
the constitution of Pennsylvania, "^ that, in all criminal
prosecutions, the accused has a right to be heard by him-
self and his counsel.

In England, it has been an ancient and commonly re-
ceived practice, that, as counsel was not allowed to anj
prisoner accused of a capital crime, so neither should he
be suffered to exculpate himself by the testimony of wit-
be«ses. This doctrine was so unreasonable and severe,
that the courts became ashamed of it, and gradually intro-
duced a practice of examining witnesses for the prisoner c
but they stopped in the middle of the road to redress-—
they would not examine the witnesses upon their oaths.
The consequence was, that juries gave less credit to wit«^
nesses produced on the part of the prisoners, than to wit*

nesses produced on the part of the crown. ^

«

Thk practice, however, like the last, is not agreeable
to the conimon law, as it was in ancient times received in
England* To say the truth, says my Lord Coke, ' we
never read in any act of parliament, ancient author, book-
case, or record, that in criminal cases, the party accused

a Mir. c. 3. ^ 1. coDg. 2. sess. C. 9. s. 29.

w Art. 9. s. .. ^ 4. Bl. Com. 352. r 3. Ins. 79.

LECTURES ON LAW, 171

should not have witnesses sworn for him ; and therefore
there is not so much as a scintilla juris against it. By a
statute made in the reign of Queen Anne, the ancient
common law on this point is renewed in £ngland ; and
witnesses for the prisoner shall be examined upon oath, in
the same manner as witnesses against him. '

On this subject, the ancient common law, as might
have been expected, is renewed in the United States and
in Pennsylvania. By a law of the former* it is provided,
that persons indicted for crimes shall be allowed to make
proof in their defence by lawful witnesses ; and that, to
compel the appearance of their witnesses, the court shall
grant the same process as is granted to compol witnesses
to appear on the prosecution. By the constitution of
Pennsylvania, it is declared, that, in all criminal prose-
cutions, the accused has a right to have compulsory pro-
cess for obtaining witnesses in his favour.

The compulsory process for obtaining witnesses is a
subpoena ad testijicandum^, which commands them to ap-
pear at the trial. If this command is disobeyed, anattach^
^ment issues for the contempt. ^

In honour of the Founder of Pennsylvania it ought to
he observed, that, in the charter of privileges *^ which he
granted to its inhabitants, he declared, ^^ that all criminals
shall have the same privilege! of witnesses and counsel as
their prosecutors." On this as on many other subjects,
Pennsylvania preceded England in point of liberal* and
enlightened improvement.

X St. 2. An. St 2« c. 9. * 1. cong. 3. sess. c. 9. s. 29.

^Art9.s.a *^ 3. BL Com. 369. dg,5.

if% LKCTUaES ON LAW.

The constitution of Peansylvania ^ declares, that, in
all criminal prosecations, die accused has a right to meet
the witnesses face to face. Those whc^ know the nature
and the mischiefs of secret accusations^-know the impor-
tance of this provision, and the security which it {uroducea*

By the constitution of the United States, ^no person
shall be convicted of treason, unless on the testimony of
two witnesses to the same overt act', or on confession in
open court. The subject of confession has been already
treated.

The courts of justice, in almost every age, and in
almost every country, have had recourse to oaths, or ap-
pals to heaven, as the most universal and the most power-
ful means to engage men to declare the truth. By the
common law, beTore the testimony of .a, witness can be
received, he is obliged to swear, that it shall be the truths
the whole truth, and nothing but the tVuth.

The testimony of witnesses is one species of evidence^
as we formerly saw \a those lectures,^ in which the great
subject of evidence was opened, and but just opened. The
general principles, upon which testimony is received and
believed, were then stated in a short and summary man-
ner, as connected with sofne native propensities of the
human mind. The important distinction between the
credibility of witnesses axtl their compete|icy was ex-
plained at large, ^ when I discoursed concerning the
separate provinces pf courts and juries. I observed, that
every intelligent person, who is not infamous or interested)

<Art9.».9. fArt3.s.5»

C A9tQ(^N)L9.p*8l.et8Ci%. ^ ABte.v6k3.f.yi-^a

k.

I

LECTURES ON LAW* 179

is a competent witness. Tht common law coincides, in
this point, with the law of Athens : for, by that law, ao
man could be a witness in his own cause ; and he who,
by his ill behaviour, had rendered himself infamous —
40#^»^— .^ns deemed unworthy of credit. '

The Marquis of Beccaria is of opinion, that the objec-
tion against the competency of a witness shquld be confi-
ned altogether to his interest ; and that his infamy should
not exclude him. Every man of common sense, says
he, every one whose ideas have some connexion with
each other, and whose sensations are conformable to
those of other men, may be a witness ; but the credibility
of hifi testimony will be in proportion as he is interested
in declaring or concealing the truth. Hence it appears
bow irrational it is^ to exclude persons branded with
infamy ; for they ough* to be credited when they have
no interest in giving false testimony. J

If this subject is investigated upon principle, it will,
perhaps, be found, that the practice of the law is more
congenial to the native sentiments of our mind, than are
the speculations of the ingenious philosopher.

Belief is the end proposed by evidence of every kind.
Belief in testimony is produced by the supposed veracity
of him who delivers it. The opinion of his veracity, as
we saw whe^ we examined the general principles of testis
mony,*^ is shaken, either when, in former instances^ we
have known him to deliver testimony which has been

*» 1. Pot. Ant 117. >Bec.c, J3. . '

k Ante. vol. 2. p. 94. 95.

ir4 ' LECTURES ON LAW.

false ; or when, in the present instance, we discover
some strong inducement which may prevail on him to
deceive. The latter part of this observation applies to
interested vritnesses ; and the application to them is
admitted to be a proper one, and to be sufficient to
exclude them from testimony. But who is a person infa-
mous ra the eye of the common law? He who has been
convicted of an infamous crime. What, in the eye of.
the common law, is an infamous crime ? When we inves-
tigated the true meaning of the y*f//«/* animus ^ according
to the common law, we found that it indicated a dispo-
srtion, decertful, false,* and treacherous.^ He who is
convicted of an infamous crime, is one who has been
proved guilty of some conduct, which evinced hifn to
ha\ne been false — to have committed the crimen falsi ; of
which so many different grades — from treason to a
cheat, and both included— are known to the law.^

It may, howcVer, be urged, on the principles of Bec-
caria, that to the conduct of which he has been convicted,
he was probably drawn by a motive of interest ; and that,
If no such motive exists in the present instance, the infe-
»ence from the past to the present is without foundation.
To this it may be justly answered, that the reason why
interest excludes a witness is not, because it certainly
will, J)ut because it possibly may, occasion a deviation ^
from the truth ; and because this deviation may be pro- .
duced even by an involuntary and imperceptible bias>
which interest will sometimes impress upon minds inten-
tionally honest. That this last consideration has great
weight in the judgment of the law, is evident from one
of the modes which it adopts to discover the existence

^ Ante. p. 23. '

/

LECTURES ON LAW*
of interest— -a mode, which, I believe, can be rations^lly
accounted for only by this last consideration. A witness,
who is suspected to be interested, may be examined
upon his voir dire — in other words, he may be required
to declare, upon oath, whether he is interested or not*
This mode of proceeding obviously supposes him honest
as well as interested* For if it supposed him dishonest,
would not the , conclusion be . irresistible-^^-that he who
ought not to be believed wh^n he gives his testimony in
chiefs as it is called, ought as little to be believed, when
he gives his testimony on his voir dire ? That involun-
tary and unavoidable bias which interest sometimes im«
presses on the mind, and which, of consequence, may
affect the testimony of the pfFered witness, is deemed
by the law a sufficient reason for his exclusion from tes-
timony*

If he whose testimony, may deceive, merely because
he is interested, though he be honest, shall for this reason
be excluded ; shall we ^dmit the testimony of one who
is false, though he be disinterested? The former is
rejected, because he may be biassed involuntarily ; for
the danger of even an involuntary bias is, for this pur«
pose, sufficient : and shall one, whom inter'est has biassed
voluntarily and infamously — shall such a one be received?
On good grounds, therefore, are persons infamous ex-
cluded from giving testimony*

That evidence which arises from testimony is, in the
law, denominated positive. There is another kind,
which the law terms presumptive. When the fact
itself cannot be proved by witnesses, that which comes
nearest to such proof is, the proof of such circumstances,
with which the fact is either necessarily or usually attend-

176 LECTURES ON LAW.

ed. This is presumptive evidetice. When those circum*
fitances are proved, with which the fact is necessariig
attended, the presumption is said to be violent t when
those circumstances only are proved with which the fact
is usually attended, the presumption is said to be only
probable. »

Presumptive proof, as described by the common
law, coincides with that species which', in our general
view of the sources of evidence, we saw rising from
experience. On that .occasion,** it was observed, that
if an object is remembered to have been frequently, stiU
more, if it is remembered to have been constantly sue*
ceedcd by certain particular consequences, the concep-
tion of the object naturally associates to itself the
conception of the consequences ; and on the actiial
appearance of the object, the mfnd naturally anticipates
the appearance of the conseqnences also : that if the coq-
sequehces have followed the object constantly^ and the
observations of this constant conne^sion have been suffi-
ciently numetous ; the evidence produced by e3q)erience
amounts to a moral certainty : that, if it has heenfrejueoty
but not entirely uniform ; the evidence amounts only to
probability, and is more or less probable, as the con-
nexion has been more or less .frequent. Violent presump-
tion, as it i« termed by the law, or moral certainty, as
it is denominated by philosophy, amounts to full proof: ^
probability, or probable presumption, has a^o its due
weight.* The coincidence between philosophy and
law is a coincidence which, to the friends of both,
always gives pleasure.

"" a. BL Con. sri. AanteVd. 3.P.109.

LECTURE! OV LAW. ' ITT

It ought to be observed here, th^t, in cases of a
pttal nature^ all preaumptive proof should be received
with caution : for the law beni^ly holds/diat it is mctf e
eligible that ten guilty persons should escape, than
that one innocent person should suffer a capital punish-
ment.

After the evidence is heard, the jury are nea^t to con-
sider what verdict they ought to give upon it ; for they
are ^ worn, as we have seen, to give a true verdict accord-
^^ ing to their evidence. To give a verdict is the great pur-

pose for which they are sumnuHied and empanelled*
Tin they give a verdict, therefore, they cannot be dis-
charged.^ This verdict may either be special*^in other
words, it may state particulaiiy the facts arising in the
^use, and leave to the court the decision of the law
resulting from those facts ; or it may be general— -in other
words, it may determine both the facts and the law* A
general verdict is either guilty or not guilty : on a ver-
dict of not guilty, the prisoner is discharged : by a verdict
of guilty, he is convicted : on a conviction the judg-
ment and, the pimishment pronounced and inflicted by
the law regularly follow, unless they are intercepted
by errour in the proceedings, by a reprieve, or by a
•pardon.

When a sentence of death is pronounced,' the imme-
4iate and inseparable consequence, by the common law>
is attainder. The law puts him out of its protection,
considers him as a bane to human society, and takes no
farther care of him than barely to see him executed : he
is already considered as dead in law. There is, in capi-

q 4, BL Com. 354.
VOL. III. Aa • ,

ITS LECTURES ON LAW.

tal cases, a great difference between a man convicted
and one attainted. Till judgment is given, diere is, in
sach cases, stiU a possibility of innocence in the contem-
plation of the law. ^

In England the consequences of attainder are forfei*
ture, escheat, and corruption of blood. Concerning
these subjects we have already treated fiilly.

I have now enumerated and described the several
crimes, the several punishments, and the modes of pro-
secuting criminals. In doing this, I have conformed
myself to the common law and to the improvements
made upon it by the constitutions and laws of the United
States and of Pennsylvania*

r 4. BL Com 373.

THE END or TmE LECTtmES ON LAW.

ON

THE HISTORY OF

\

PROPERTY.

k

ON

THE HISTORY OF PROPERTT.

I

Jr ROPERTY 19 the right or lawful pover, wluch.9
person ha3 to a thing. Of thU right there are three
dificrevit degrees. The lowest degree of this right is m
right merely to possess a thiag« The next degree of thir
right is a right to possess and to use a thing. The next
and highest degree of this right is a right to possess,
to use, and to dispose of a thing.

This right, in all its different degrees, may be rested
in one, or it Jtnay be vested in more than one man.
When this right is vested in more than one man, it may
be vested in them either as a number of individuals, or
as a body politick.

Coacemiag the origin smd true foundation of property^
er the sight of persons to things, many opinions^ have
been formed and entertained; With regard to property
in land, Mr* Paley declares, that the real foundation of

1§2 ON THE HISTORY Of P&OFEKTY.

it is municipal law* ^ Others consider property as a na-
tural right ; but as a right, which may be extended or
modified by positive institutions* ^

The general property of man in animals, in the soil,
and in the productions of the soil, is the immediate
gift of the bountifulCreator of alL ^^ God created man
in his own image ; in the image of God created he him :
male and female created he them. And God blessed
them ; and God said unto them, be fruitful and multiply,
and replenish the earth, and subdue it : and have domi-
nion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the
air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the
earth." ^ Immediately after the deluge, the great charter
of general property was renewed. " God blessed Noah,
and his sons, and said unto them, be fruitful and multi-
ply, and replenish the earth. And the fear of you and
the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth.,
and upon every fowl of the air, smd upon all that moveth
Upon the ^arth, and upon all the fishes of the sea ; into
your hand are they delivjered. Every moving thing that
liveth shall be meat for you ; even as the green berk
have I given you all things*" ^

The information which is expressly revealed is conge-
nial to those inferences, which may be drawn by sound^
and legitimate reasoning. Food, raiment, and shelter
are necessary and useful to us. Things proper, for our
food, raiment, and shelter are provided around us. It
is natural to conclude, that those things were provided
to supply our wants and necessities. The same train of

a 1. Paley. 133. 136. >» Ins. 3. 1 11. EL Jur. 15.

<»G^.Lsr.3a. ^Gemtx.!, 3,2.

A-

ON THE HIST6RT OT FROFEllTT,
reasoning will apply to the enjoyments, as well as to the
necessities of man. ^

While men were few, and the supplies of every thing
were abundant, it is probable that many things were pos-
sessed and used in common. With regard to the pos*
session and use of some things, however, this could
never be strictly the case. In the fruit plucked or gather-
ed by one for his subsistence ; in the spot which he occu-
pied for his shelter or repose ; in the bow which he has
made for ensuring his safety, or procuring his subsistence ;
in the skin whidh he has obtained by his skill. and swift^^
ness in the chace, and which coveis his body from the
inclemency of the weather, he gains a high degree of
exclusive right ; and of this right he cannot be dispos-
sessed without a proportioned degree of injustice. ** A
publick theatre," says Cicero, « with his usual luminous
. .propriety, " is common to all the citizens ; but the seat
:which each occupies may, during the entertainment, be
denominated his own." But, in the early period of so-
ciety, concerning which we now speak, things, in general,
would be viewed as belonging equally to all ; in other
words, to those who should first have occasion to use
or possess them.

In this situation, we have reason to believe, society
continued after the deluge, while " the whole earth was
of one language and of one speech." ^ On the confusion
of languages, and the dispersion of families, when man*

e De fin. L 3. c. 2a

f Gen. xi. 1. Erant omnia communia et indivis^ dnrnibuj,
veluti unum cunctis patrimonium esset. Just. 1. 43, C 1^

I«4 ^ ov THE msToiiir of pmoranTT.

kind dwelt no longer in *^tfae same plain,''' this general
society was dissolved, and no one subject of property
could, in this new situation, be ^reasonably deemed as
bdotagiillg equally to alL The different families and
associations, however, who diverged from the commoa
cencre of emigration, would still conlider many things^
Md particularly the country in which they commenced
their new settlements, as common to each fiuxifly Or as80»
ci^ion* ^

The things most immediatfely necessary to the subsist^
«nce of life would become the first objects of exdu^ve
property. Thb next objects Would be such as ministered
to its conveniency and comfort. Personsd property, or
property in movables, would become separate; while
i^eal property, or property in land, would eontinue com«>
mon. When the association became too numerous, and
the personal property of its members became too large,
to subsist or live commodiously together ; then a sepa-
ration of landed possessions necessarily took place. Of
these remarks we have a strong and striking illustration
in the history of Abram and Lot. ^'^Abram was very
rich in clittle: Lot also had flocks, and herds, and
tents. And the land was n6t able to bear them that they
might dwell together; for their substance was great.
And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's

cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle. And 'Abram

it

said unto Lot, let there be no strife, I pray thee, between
thee and me, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen ;
for we be brethren. Is not the whole land before thee ?
Separate thyself, I pray the4, from me : if thou wilt
take the left hand, then will I go to the right : or if thou

s Gen. xl S.

ON f HB HISTORY OF PROPERTY. 185

depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left. And
JLot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordani
that it was well watered every where. Then Lot chose
him all the plain of Jordan: and they separated them-
selves the one from the other." ,

h

I

Eyen after agriculture became known and was practi-
sed in some imperfect degree, still the land continued to
be the common property of the association. Cecrops,
"who emigrated from civilized Egypt, was the first to,
teach the wandering hunters or shepherds of Attica to
unite in villages of husbandmen. After their union,
their agricultural labours were carried on in common;
aadthe soil, together with its immediate productions,
corn, and wine, and oil, were regarded as a common
property. * Agreeably to the same spirit and the same
policy, we are told, that during the heroick ages of Greece,
vrhen a tribe sallied from its woods and mountains to
take possession of a more fertile territory, the soldiers
fought and conquered, not for their leaders, but for
themselves — -that the land acquired by their joint valour
vfSi^ their common right — and that it was cultivated by
the united labour and assiduity of all the members of
the tribe, i

In this stage of society, land was considered as the
property of the community, rather than of individuals ;
and the inhabitants were connected with the country
which they inhabited, only as members of the same asso-
ciation. ^ In this view of things, the famed establishment

h Gen. xiii. 3. 5«— 11.

i 1. GilL 8. J 14 48. k Id, 68,

' VOX. jii. B b

186 ON THE »I STORY CT PROPEETT.

of a community of property, which Lycurgus mad« at
Sparta, m:ay be^ deemed nothing more than a renewsd of
their primitive institutions, of which some traces probably
remained anioiig the simple SpartaiA. ^

The Scythians, it is well known, appropriated their
cattle' and tents, but occupied their land in common.
Such, to this day, are the laws and customs of the Tar^
tars.

Of the Suevi, " the largest and most powerful tribe of
the ancient Germans, we are informed by Caesar, that
they had no private or separate property in their land ;
that, every year, they sent out a proportion of their war-
riours in order to make war ; Mrfaile the rest remained at
home, and cultivated the ground for all ; that these war*
like enterprises and peaceful occupations were pursued,
in alternate years, by the different divisions of the'war»
riours ; that the tribe continued only one year in the s^ne
place ; that they used com very Iftde ; but lived chiefly
on milk and flesh ; and were much employed in hunting.
From the pen of Tacitus " we have nearly the same 4e«^

1 1. Gill. 96.

^ Suevorum gens est longe maxima et bellicosissina Gennano-
ram ommum->^privsiti ac separati ag^i apod eo6 nihil est>-> qnatannis
singula millia armatorum, bellandi causa, suis ex finibus edDcunt :
reUqui domi manent ; pro se atque lUis colunt. Hi rorsuft invicim.
anno post in armis sunt : illi domi remanent — ^neque longius anno
remanere uno in loco, incolendi causa,licet ; neque multum frumen-
to, sed maximam partem lacte atque pecore vivunt, multuimque
sunt; in venationibus. Cxs. !• 4. c. ] . 1. 6. c. 21.

»

n Agri pro.numero cukorum ab universis per vices occupaiftiir,
quds mox inter se secundum dignationem partiuntur. Facilitatflia
partiendi camporum spatia' prestant. Arva per annoa mutant ; et
superest ager. Tac de mori Ger. c, 26.

ON T-HS inESTORT 0? PEOPERTY.

i9r

s(^ri|ktion« They change, says he, from spot to spot ; and
inake new appropriations according to the number of
bands, and to the condition and quality of ^ach. As
the plains are very spacious, the allotments are easily
assigned : for though they shift their situation annually, '
they have still lands to spare.

In Tacitus, however, we. begin to discover some .ap-
pearances, among the Germans, of a private property in
lands. To a certain class of their slaves, we are told,
4heir masters assigned habitations ; and from them, as
from tenants^ demanded in return a certain quantity of
grain, or cattle, or cloth. ** This presupposes, in the
masters, a separate property in the lands let to those
slaves.

- In the Highlands of Scotlaml^ we are told, com-
mon possession of the cultivated soil, as well as of the
pasture grounds, is known to this day. The arable lands
are divided into as many parts, as there are tenants en«
titled to an equal share of possession. The stock of
cattle belongmg to each tenant is considered as equal :
the advantages accruing to the several partitions from
^manure are deemed also to be equivalent ; yet some por-
tion of these divisions shifts annually from one posses-
sor to another, in such a manner, that, m a certain period
of years, every tenant of the village has occupied and
reaped crops from «U the lands belonging to the village. ^

^ S^rvls utttntur. Suam quisque sedem, suos penates regit Fru-
nenti modum dominus, aut pecoris, aut vestis, ut cdono injimgit.
Tac.demor.Gor.c35r

P Grant's Ess. 9r.
ON THE HISTOllT Oy 5PROPEIITT.

It is said, that, among the Indians of Peru, the ter-
ritory occupied Was the property of the state, and was
regulated by the magistrate ; and that, when individuals
were permitted to possess particular spots, these, in de-
fault of male issue, returned to Ae ^community. ^ For-
merly, says Mr. Adair, the Indian law obliged every
town to work together in one body, in sowing or planting^
their crops ; though their fields are divided by proper
marks, and their harvest is gathered and appropriated se-
parately. ^ The ideas and opinions of private and exclu-
sive property are, as we have reason to believe, extend-
ing gradually among the Indians ; though their unculti-
vated territory is still considered as the common property
of the nation or tribe.

m

i

From the detail which we have given, we are justified
in deducing this general remark — that in the early and
rude periods of society among all nations, the same fami-
ly or association enjoyed and were understood to enjoy in
many things a community of property, especially of land-
ed property ; and that, as to individuals, property was
conceived to extiend no farther than to those degrees,
which comprehend the right of possession and temporary
use of the sbiL

But agriculture, and the industry attendant on agri.
culture, introduced gradually a new scene of things, and
a new train of sentiments. This first of arts was not
unknown to the restorer of mankind. Noah, after the
deluge, began to be a husbandman, and he planted a
vineyard. ' Before the confusion of languages, the whole
human race dwelt in the plain of Shinar. In that plain

1 Stu, V. 158. cites Com. Per. b. 5.0.1. 3. rId.ilMd. «Gen.ix.2«.

ON tHE HISTORY OF PROPERTT. la9

and Its neighbourhood, the knowledge of agriculture
was- never entirely lost. Among the Babylonians, it is
traced to the most early periods of their history. In the
fertile territories of Egypt, watered by the Nile, the
soil was cultivated with much alssiduity and success**
When a famine, in the days of Abram, was grievous in
the land of Canaan, the patriarch went down intO' Egypt
to sojourn there. ** * Oh a similar occasion, Jacob said to
his sons, who, with unavailing anguish, beheld the dis-
tressed situation of the family — ^Why do ye look one
upon another? I have heard that there is corn in Egypt ;
get ye down thither, and buy. for us from thence, that
we may live, and not die. ^

From Egypt, as we have already seen, the art of agri-
culture was transplanted into Attica by Cecrops. Before
his arrival, the inhabitants had relied on the reproduc-
tions of the uncultivated soil for their annual subsistence ;
but, by the example of the Egyptians, skilled in agricul*-
ture, they were induced to submit to labour, and contract

habits of useful industry. ^

t- . ■ ■ "

It is the observation of Cicero, that the greatest part
of the arts and discoveries, which arc necessary or oma-
n . t dl to life and society, were derived from the Athe-
nians into the other parts of Greece, and then into fo-
reign countries, for the general advantage and refinement

' Osiris, one of the kings of Egypt, is regarded as the inventor
^ •£ the plough.

Primus aratra manu solerti fecit Osiris* TibuL L 1. Eleg. 7. v. 29.

• Gen. xil 10. ^ Gen. xlii. 1,2. ^1. Anac. 6.
ON THE BISTORT Of F^OPEETY.

of the human race. ' Agriculturei in particular, was
brought from Grbece into Italy, according to the account
of this matter given by the Romans themselves, y As
^e Egyptians taught the Greeks ; so the Greeks com«
municateii their knowledge to the Italians. For many
ages, the Romans knew no other form of a plough^
than that which, to this day, is used in some districts of
the higher Egypt. «

The wise and virtuous Numa wa^ the patron of agri-
culture. He distributed the Romans into pagi or villages^
and oyer each placed a superintendant to prevail with
them,, by every motive, to improve the practice of hus-
bandry. To inspire their industry with redoubled vi-
gour, he fratiuently condescended to be their overseer
himself. This wise and judicious policy had a most
happy influence upon the subsequent mannets and for^
tunes of Rome. Our consuls, says the Roman Orator,*
were called from the plough. Those illustrious charac-
ters, who have most adorned the commonwealth, and
have been best qualified to manage the reins of govern-
ment with dignity and success, dedicated a part of their
time and of their labour to die cultivation of their landed
estates. In those glorious ages of the republick, the
farmer, the judge, and the soldier were to each other
a reciprocal ornament. After having finished the pub-
lick business with glory and advantage to himself and to

"" 1. PoL Ant 138. t 1. Gog. Or. Laws. 68. *Id.9a

* Ab aratro arcessebantur, qui consuies fierent-^Apud majores
Mostros, samnii viri, clarissimique homines, qui omni tempore aii
gubemacula reipuUice sedere dcMiant, tamen in agris qnoque co-
lendis allqiiantujii oper» temporisqne consumserint CicproRos.
Am. c. 18.

\

I

I t

ON THE HISTORY OF PROPHIlTT. 191

his counfry, the Roman magistrate descended, with ^
modest dignity^ from the elevation of office ; and ress*-
sumed, with contentment and with pleasure, the peace--
ful labours of a rural and independent Kfc.

When agriculture was once introduced, and its utility
was known and experienced ; it became natural to searcb
and adopt the measures necessary for distinguishing
possessions permanently ; that «very one who laboured
and who excelled in this fundamental profession, might
be secured in enjoying the fruits of his laboui^ and lil»
improvements. Hence the foundation of laws, whicfe.
instituted and regulated the division and stable piosses^
» aion of the soil. Hence, too, the origin and the imp<jr*
tance of land marks. In the early period in which Job
fived, it was part of the description of a turbulent and
wicked man, that he removed the land mai*ks, and violent*
ly took away flocks. *• The inspired legislator of the*
Jews speaks of them as of an institution, which, even itt
his time, was anciently established in Canaan. ^^.ThqiiL
shalt not remove thy neighbdur's land marie, whic% thejr
of old time have set in thy inheritance, which thou ahalt
inherit in the land that the Lord thy God giveth the&
to possess it."c Numa, mild as he was, ordered tho8«^
who were guilty of this crime, to suffer a capital ptin}aii<-^
ment. ^

The inference which we draw frotn this long- detail
of facts is — that agriculture gave rise to that degree of
property inland, which consists in the right of e:fecluaiire '
and permanent possession and use.

> X<)b 3PPV, 3. ^. Deut. xix. 14. d t Gog. Or. l^aws. 33;

IM ON THE HISTORY OF PROPERTY.

'We have seen that among the ancient Germans, thi»
degree of property was altogether unknown. The Saxons,
^ho emigrated into England, and made a .conquest there^
were a part of the ancient German nation. Their settle-
ment in England produced, with regard to the present
subject, a considerable change in their sentiments and ha-
bits. After they settled in England, instead of continuing
to be hunters, they became husbandmen. In pursuing this
occupation, they ceased to wander annually from spot to
spot ; they became Habituated and attached t;o a fixed
^residence ; they acquired a permanent and an exclusive
degree of property in land. This degree, among them^
as among other nations, proceeded from th«ir improve-
ment in agriculture. ^

We have good reason for believing, that, for some
time after the settlement of -the Saxons in England, the
landed estatesac quired by individuals were, in general^
but of a small extent. Inexpert in agriculture when.they
first arrived, their progress in the separate appropriation
of.l^^ was, therefore, , slow. This alow appropriation
v^et, besides, with obstructions and interruptions from
the; vigorous opposition of the Britons, who, for centu-
ries, disputed every inch of ground with the invaders of
their country. Conformably to this opinion ,^ we find
that, from the beginning of the Saxon government, the
land was divided into hides. A hide comprehended as
mu^h as could be cultivated by a single plough. The
general estimation of real, property, by this small and
. inaccurate measure, points, with sufficient cleamesis^ to
the leading circumstance, which originally marked and
regulated the greatest number of landed estates. ^

• Millar, 50. f id. SS. iU. Uh

QT§ TK« WWT^KT or F^OFftHIT. < i^S

/

f

Bttt WiS have aiso gi^d reason for believing) that,
^nioiigthe Saxone, thp emaUness of their landedi property
. w^ compenaated by itsindependence. Tb^y were fre^
men ; /and their law* of {^operty waa, that they might
challenge a pourer to dQ vhat they pleased with their Qwn*^
But thie degree and quality of property wiU be coasidered
afterwards.

Having traced property, and especially property in
land, from its general to its separate and exclusive state^
it will now be proper to consider the advantag^a, whii:li
the latter state possesses oyer the former*

This superiority of separate over comaion proper^
has not been always admitted: it has not been always
admitted even in America* In the early settlement of
this country, we find two experiments on the operation
iand effects of a community of goods. The issue of each^
l|0W€ver, was very uncomfortable.

The first was made in Virgima. An instruction was
given to the colonists, that, during five years next after
their binding, they should trade jointly ; that the produce
of their joint industry should be deposited in a common
magazine ; and that, from this common ma^zine, every
one should be suppUed under the direction of the coun-
ciL What were the consequences? I relate them in the
words of the Historian of Virginia.j " And now the En-
glish began to find the mistake of forbidding and prevent-
i^ private property ; for whilst they all laboured jointly
together, and' were fed out of the common store, happy

' X Bac. on Gov. 131

VOL. Ill* c c

\

/

1^4 bW THE HISTORY Of ^ROPSftTT.

was he that could slip from his labour, or slubber orer
his work in an}^ manner. Neither had they any concern
about the increase ;. presuming, however the crop pros-
pered, that the publick store must maintain them. £ven
the most honest and industrious would scarcely take so
much pains in a week, as they would have done for them-
selves in a day." ^

The second experiment was made in the colony of
New Plymouth. During seven years, all commerce
was carried on in one joint stock. All things were com-
mon to all ; and the necessaries of life were daily dis-
tributed to every one from the publick store. &ut these
regulations soon furnished abundant reasons for com-|
plaint, and proved most fertile sources of common
calamity. The colonists were sometimes in danger of
starving ; and severe whipping, which was often admi-*
nistered to promote labour, was only productive of
constant and general discontent. This abstird policy
became, at last, apparent to every one ; and the intro-
duction of exclusive property immediately produced the
most comfortable change in the colony, by engaging the
affections and invigorating the pursuits of its inhabit
tants* ^

The right of separate property seems to be founded
in the nature of men and things ; and when societies
become numerous, the establishment of that ri^ht is
highly important to the existence, to the tranquillity
to the elegancies, to the refinements, and to some of the
virtues of civilized life.

^ Stith. 39. i ChaL«9.9«t

OW THE HISTORY OF FROPERTT. 195

I

Man is intended for action. Useful and skilful
industry is the soul of an active life. But industry
should have her just reward. That reward is property ;
fcnT' of useful and active industry, property is the natural
result.

Exclusive property multiplies the productions of the
earth, and the means of subsistence. Who would cul-
tivate the soil," and sow the grain, if he had no pecu-
liar interest in the harvest? Who would rear and tend
flocks an^ herds, if they were to be taken from
him by the first person who should come to demand
them ?

' By exclusive propertj'', the productions of the earth
and the means of subsistence are secured and preserved,
as well as multiplied. What belongs to no one is wasted
by every one. What belongs to one man in particular is
the object of his economy and care. '

Exclusive property prevents disorder, and promotes
peace. Without its establishment, the tranquillity of
society would be perpetually disturbed by fierce and
ungovernable competitions for the possession and enjoy-
ment of things, insufficient to satisfy all, and by no
rules of adjustment distributed to each.

The conveniences of life depend much on an Exclu-
sive prope^tyl The full effects of industry cannot be
obtained without distinct professions and the division of
labour. But labour cannot be divided, nor can distinct
professions be pursued, unless the productions of one
profession and of one kind of labour can be exchanged

1^6, ON TBfli HISTORY M FROPEBTT.

for those of another. Thi^ exchange implies a s«piifate
jpro|)erty in those who make it.

The observations concerning the cdnvbniehcies of life^

may be applied with equal justness to its elegancies and.
its refinements.

On property some of the virtues depend for their more
free and enlarged exercise. Would the same room be
left for the benign indulgence of generosity and benefi-
cence — 'Would the same room be left for the becoming
returns of esteem and gratitude-— would the sahie room
be left for the endearing interchange of good offices, Ih
the various institutions and relations of social life, if
the goods of fortune lay in a mass, confused and unap-
propriated ?

For these reasons, the establishment of iBXctusive pro-
perty may justly be considered as essential to the interests
of civilized society. With regard to land, in particular,
a separate and exclusive property in it is a principal
source of attachment to the countn\ in which one re-
sides. A person becomes'very unwilling to relinquish
those well known fields of his own ; ivhich it has been
the great object of his industr\% and, perhaps, of his
pride^ to cultivate and adorn.'* This attachment to pri-
vate landed property has, in some parts of the globe,
covered barren heaths and inhospitable mountains with
fair cities and populous villages ;. while, in other parts,
the ihost inviting climates and soils remain destitute of
inhabitants, because the rights of private property in
lind are hot established or ^regarded.

V

ef those lectures, in which the Author designed ^ to trace the

ON THE HISTORY OF ^KOPXRTY.
^torf of property from its lowest rude beginnings to its highest
artificial refinements.*' (VoL 1. p. 50.) It will be perceived that
the piece is indeed but a fragment; as,' however, the history
of property is so far completed as to trace it from its general
to its separate and exclusive state, it is thought worthy of in*
sertioD* £d.

CONSIDERATIONS

ON THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF THE
LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY

or THE

BRITISH PARLIAMENT.

1PUBLISHED IN THE TEAR H^DGG,LXXIV.

; -.

/

ADVERTISEMENT.

X HE following sheets were written during die
late non-importation agreenMsnt: but that agreement
being dissrolved before they were ready for the press, it
was then judged unseasonable to publish them. Many
will, perhaps, be surprised to ^ee the legislative authority
of the British parliament over the colonies denied v/;*
every instance. Those the writer informs, that, when
he began this piece, he would probably have been
surprised at such an opinion himself; for that it was
the result^ and not the occasion^ of his disquisitions.
He entered upon them with a view and expectation of
being able to trace some constitutional line between those
cases in which ^e ought, and those in which we ought
not, to acknowledge the power of parliament over us*
In the prosecution of his inquiries, he became fully
convinced that such aline does not exist ; and that there
caen be no medium between acknowledging and denying
that power in a// cases. Which of these two alternatives is
most consistent with law, with the principles of liberty,
and with the happiness of the colonies, let the publick
determine. To them the writer submits his sentiments,
with that respectful deference to their judgment, which, ^
in all questions affecting them, every Individual should
pay.

August 17 th^ 1774.

VQU III. Dd

\

N

/

OV THE

LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY

OF THX

BRITISH PARLIAMENT.

IN O quiestion can be more important to Great Britain,
and to the colopies, than this— -does the legislative
authority of the British parliament extend over them i

On the resolution of this question, and on the mea«
sures which a resolution of it will direct, it will depend^
whether the parent country, like a happy mother, shall
behold her children flourishing around her, and receive
the most grateful returns for her protection and love;
or whether, like a step dame, rendered miserable by her
own imkind conduct, she shall see their affections aliena-
ted, and herself deprived of those advantages which a
milder treatment would have ensured to her.

The British nation are generous : they love to enjoy
freedom : they love to beh9ld it; aUv^ry is iheir ]g;reatest

204 ON TH£ LEGIfl^LATlVE AUTHORITT

abhorrence. Is it possible, then, that they would wish?
themselves the authors of it? No. Oppression is not a
plant of the British soil i and the late severe ))roceedingi^
against the colonies must have arisen from the detesta^
ble schemes of interested ministers, who have misin*
formed and misled the people* A regard for that nation,,
from whom we have sprung, and from whom we boast
to have derived the spirit which prompts us to oppose
their unfriendly m^easures, must lead us to put this
construction on what we have lately seen and experienced.
When, therefore, they shsil know and consider the jusr
tice of our claim-— that we insist only upon being treated
aa freemen, said as the desceivdants of those British
ancestors, whose n^emory we will not dishonour by our
degeneracy, it is reasonable to hope, that they will
approve of our conduct, and bestow their loudest
applauses on our congenial ardour for liberty.

•

But if these, reasonable and joyful hopes should
fatally be disappointed, it will afford us at least some
sal^isfccuon to know, that the principles on which we
have founded our opposition to the late acts of parliament,
are the principles of justice and freedom, and of the
British constitution. If our righteous struggle shall be
attended with misfortunes^ we will reflect with exultation
on the noble cause of them ; and while suffering unme*
rited distress, think ourselves superiour to the proudest
slaves. On the contrary, if we shall be reinstated in
the enjoyment of those rights, to which we are entitled
by the supreme and uncontrollable laws of nature, and
the fundamental principles of the British constitution,
we shall reap the glorious fruit of our labours ; arid we
shall, at the same time, give to the world and to pos-^
terity an instructive example, that the cause of liberty

,OW TB^ BRITISH PARLIAMEHT/ 305

cHight not to be despaired of, and that a generous conten-
tion in that cause is not always unattended wiih success*

l^'he foregoing considerations have induced me to
publish a few remarks on the important question, with
which I introduced this essay*

Those who allege that the parliament of Great
Britain have power to make laws binding, the American
colonies, reason in the following manner. ^ That there
is and must be in every state a supreme^ irresisiible,
absolute, uncontrolled authority, in which the Jura summi
imperii^ or the rights of sovereignty, reside :" a " That
this supreme power is, by the constitution of Great
Britain, vested in the king, lords, and commons:''^
** That, therefore, the acts of the king, lords, and com*
mons, or, in other words, acts of parliament, have, by
the British constitution, a binding force on the American
colonies, they composing a part of the British empire.'^

I admit that the principle, on which this argument
is founded, is of great importance : its importance^
howeter, is derived from its tendency to promote the
ultimate end of all government. But if the application
of it would, in any instance, destroy, instead of promo-
ting, that end, it ought, ' in that instance, to be rejected :
for* to admit it, would be to sacrifice the end to the
means, which are V^uable only so far as they advance
it.

All men are, by nature, equal and free : lio one has
ft right to any authority over another without his consent:

• 4, BL Com. 48. 49. ^ Id. 5a 51.

/

306 ON THE lEGiSLATIVE AUTHOBITT

all lanvf ul government is founded on the consent of those
who are subject to it : such consent was given with a
view to ensure and to increase the happiness of the
governed, above what they could enjoy in an indepen-
dent and unconnected state of nature* The consequence
is, that the happiness of the society is thf firBt law of
every government. *

This rule is founded on the law of nature : it must
control eveiy political maxim : it must regulate the legis-
lature itself, d The peoj^e have a right to insist that
this rule be observed ; and are entitled to demand a
moral security < that the legislature will observe it. If
they have not the first, they are slaves , if they have
not the second, they are, every moment, exposed
to slavery. For ^^ civil liberty is nothing else Jbut
natural liberty, devested of that part which constituted
the in'dependence of individuals, by th^ authority ^which
it confers on sovereigns, attended with a right of imist-
ing upon their making a good use of their authority, and
with a moral security that this right will have^ita effect." ^

Let me now be permitted to ask — ^Will it ensure and
increase the happiness of the American colonies, that
the parliament of Great Britain should possess a supremey
irresistible, uncontrolled authority over them F Is such
an authority consistent with their liberty \ Have they

^ The right of sovereignty is that of commanding finally-— 4>at
in order to procure real felicity ; for if this end is not obtained,
Ibvereignty ceases to be a le^timate authority. 2. BurL 32, 33.

d The law of natare b saperiour in obligation to any other. 1*
BL Com. 41.

« % Barl. 19.

^Of T9E BRITISH FARLIAKSNT. ^07

any security that it will be employed only for their good?
.Such a security is absolutely necessary; Parliamentfl are
not infallible : they are not always just. The members,
of whom they are composed, are human ; and, there-
fore, they may err ; they are influenced by interest; and,
therefore, they may deviate from their duty; The acts
of the body must depend upon the opinions and disposi-
tions of the members : the acts of the body may, then,
DC the result of errour and of vice. It is no breach of
decency to suppose all this : the British constitution sup-
poses it : ^^ it supposes that parliapients may betray their
trust, and provides, as far as human wisdom cap provide,
that they may not be. able to do so long, without a suffi-
cient control." Without provisions for this purpose,
the temple of British* liberty, like a structure of ice,
would instantly dissolve before the fire of oppression and
despotick sway. • .

•

It will be very material to consider the several secu-
rities, which the inhabitants of Great Britain have, that
their liberty will not be destroyed by the legislature, in
whose hands it is intrusted. If it shall appear, that the
' same securities are not enjoyed by the colonists ; the
undeniable. consequence will be, th^t the colonists are not
under the same obligations to intrust their liberties into
the hands of the same legislature : for the colonists are
entitled to all ^ the privileges of Britons. We have com-
^nitted no crimes to forfeit them : we have too much
spirit to resign them. We^ will leave our posterity as
free as our ancestors left us.

f Bol. Diss. <xi Part L 11. 13. p. 167. 179.

r

g As the law is the birthright of every subject, so wheresoever ^
Ihey go, &ey carry thdr laws wUh them. 3. P. Wins. 75.

X

SQ6 OK Ta* WOWtATIVB ^t/TQORITT

\

To give (o any thing tb^t piis^es in pinrliasient die
force of a law, the consent of the jkuvg, pf the lords, aii4.
of the commons ^ is absolut^y necessary. ^ If, the%
the inhabitants of Great Br itain possess a sufficieiiil; rcr
attaint upon any of these branches of the legislatiH'e^
their liberty is secure, provided they be not wantii^ to
themselves* Let us take a view of the restraints, which
they have upon the hoose of c<mimonfi«

They elect the members of that house. ^^ Mi^^-
triites," says Montesquieu,] ^^ are properly theirs, who
havie the nomination of them." The .members of the
house of commons, therefore, elected by the peo^e, are
the magistrates of the people ; and are bound 'by the ties
of gratitude for the honour and confidence conferred
upon daiem, to consult the interest of their constituents.

The power of elections has ever been regarded as a
point of the last ooiisequeiK^ to allk free governments.
The independent exercise of that power is justly deemed
Ae strongest bulwark of the British liberties. ^ As such»

^ The c^mnums of Bngiand have a great and ccRsiderable rigbt
InthegovemmeBt ; and a diare in the leg^lature witiiout wtuoni
aolawpasses. 3. Ld* Ray. 95Q.

j Sp. L. b. 2. c. S.

^ llie Athenians, justly jealous of this important privilege) pu-
nished, with death, every stranger who presumed to interfere in the
assemblies of the people.

1 The >£n^i^ freedom wiU be at an end whenever the court
invades the free election of parliament Rapin.

A right that a ntaa has to give his vote at the election of ^ per«»
son to represent him in parliament, diere ta concur to the makhig

or TtlE BRITISH PARLIAMfiNt. SfOS

it has always been an object of great attention to the
legislature; and Is expressly stipulated with the prince iu
thfe bill of rights. All those are excluded ' from voting,
whose poverty is such, that they cannot live independent,
and must therefore be subject to the undue influence of
their superiours. Such are supposed 'to have no will of
their own : and it is judged improper that they should
vote in the representation of a free states What can
exhibit in a more striking point of view, the peculiar
care which has been taken, in ordei^ to render the elec**
tion of members of parliament entirely free ? It was
deemed an insult upon the independent comthbns of En-
gland, that their uninfluenced suffrages should be adul-
terated by those w.ho w^ere not at liberty to speak as they
thought, though their interests and ' inclinations were the
same. British liberty, it was thbught, could not be
effectually secured, unless those who made the laws
were freely, and witho.ut influence, elected by those
for whom they were made. Upon this principle is rea-
sonably founded the maxim in law — ^that every one, who,
is capable of exercising his will, is party, and presumed
to consent, to an act of parliament.

- For the same reason that persons, who live dependent
upon the will of others, are not admitted to vote in elec-
tions, those who are under age, and therefore incapable
of judging; those who are convicted of perjury or subor-
nation of perjury, and therefore unworthy of judging;
and those who obtain their freeholds by fraudulent con-
veyances, and would therefore vote to serve infamous

of laws, which are to bind his liberty and prc^rty, is a most tran-
Bcendant thing aad of a high nature. 3. Ld. Ray. 95Z,

VOL. IIU £ e

210 ON THfc LEGIS£ATITE AUTHORITY

puFposes, are all likewise exduded^ from the enjoyment
of this great privilege. Corruption at elections is guarded
against by the strictest precautions, and most severe
penahief;. Every elector, before he polls, mustf if de-
^m£mded by a candidate or by two electors, -take the oath
against bribery, as prescribedby 2. Geo. 2. c^ 24. Officers
of the excise, of the customs, and of the post offices {
officers poncerned in the duties upon leather, soap, paper^
striped linens imported, hackney coaches, cards and dice,'
are i:e8trained from Jinterfering in electionSf under the
penalty of one hundred pounds^ and . of being jncapaUe
of ever exercising any office of trust under the king.

« ■»

Thus is -the freedom of. elections secured from the
servility, thf; ignorance, and the corruptioai .of the elec*
tors ; and from the interposition of oftcers .dependmg
imnaediately upon the crown. ^ But this h not all. Fro*
visions, equaOy salutary, have been made condeming the ,
qualifications of those who shall be elected. AUimagiii-
abie care has been ^ken, that the comnKuas oP Great
Britain may be neither awed, nor allured, nor deceived
into any nomination inconsistent with their liberties.

It has been adopted/as a general maxim, that th^ cit>w&
will take advantage of every opportunity of extendhig
its prerogative, in opposition to the privileges of the
people ; that it is the interest ofvthose who have pensions
or offices at will from the crown, to concur in all its me£^«
^ures } that mankind in general will prefer their private
interest to the good of their country ; and that, conse.,
qucntly, those who enjoy such pensions or offices are un- -
fit to represent a free nation, and to have the care o£
their liberties committed to their hands^m AU^ucl^

"* There are a few exceptions in the case of officers atifOL

OF TBE BRITXHlf PARLIAMENT. Hi

oRctn or pensioners are declared incapable of being
elected members of /the house of commons^ '

But these are not the only checks which the commons
of Great Britain have, upon the conduct of those whom
they ekct to represent them in parliament. The interest
of the representatives is the same with that of their
constituents. Every measure, that is prejudicial to the
nation, must be prejudicial to them and their posterity.
They cannot betray their electors, without, at the same
thne, injuring themselves^ They must join in bearing
the burthen of every oppressive act ; and participate 'in
the happy effects of every wise and good law. Influenced
{)y these considerations, they will seriously and with at«
tention examine every measure proposed to them ; they
^ill behold it in every light, and extend their views to
its most distant consequences. If^ after the most mature
deliberation, they find it will be conducive to the welfare
of their country, they will support it with ardour : if, on
the contrar}% it appears to be of a dangerous and de-
structive nature, they will oppose it with firmness.

Every social and generous affection concurs with their
interest, in anii^ating the representatives of the commons
of Great Britain to^ an honest and faithful discharge of
their important trust. In each patriotick effort, the heart-
felt satisfaction of having acted a worthy part vibrates in
delightful unison w^h the applause of their!countrymen,
who never fail to express their warmest acknowledge-
ments to the friends and benefactors of their countr}%
How pleasing are those rewards t How much to be pre.
ferred to that paltry wealth, which is sometimes procured
by meanness and treachery ! I say sometimes 9 for mean*
ness and treachery do not always obtMi tihtt pitifi^ re«

212 ON THE IfiGlSLATlVE AUyilORlTT ^

ward. The most useful ministers to the crown^ and
therefore the most likely to be employed, especially in
^eat emergencies, are those who are best beloved by the
people; andahose only are beloved by, the. people, who
act steadily and uniformly in support of their liberties.
Patriots, therefore, have freque;ntly, and especiadly upon
important occasions^ the best chance of being advanced
to offices of profit-and power. An abject compliance with
the will of an imperious prince, and a ready disposition
to sacrifice ev^ry duty to his pleasure, are sometimes, I
confess, the steps, by which only men can expect to rise
to wealth and titles. Let us suppose that, in this manner,
they are successful in attaining them. Is the despicable
prize a jSufficient^rQcompense, for submitting to the infa-
mous means by swhich it was procured, and for the tortur-
ing remorse with which the possession of it must be ac-
companied ? Will iicompensate for the merited curses of
the nation and of posterity ?

These, must he very strong checks upon the conduct
of every man, who is not utterly lost ta^all sense of praise
and blame. Few wijl expose themselves to the just
abhorrence of those among whom they, live, and to the
excruciating sensations which such abhorrence must
produce.

But lest all these motives^ powerful as they are, should
be insufficient to animate the representatives of the nation
to a vigorous and upright discharge of their duty, and to
restrain them from yielding to any temptation, that would
incite them to betray their trust ; their constituents have
still a farther security for their liberties in the frequent
election of parliaments. At the expiration of every paiv .
liament, the people cap make a distinction betir ten those

OF TI^E BRITISH PARLIAMENT.

Sis

who have served them well,* and those who have neglected
or l^etrayed their interest: they can bestow, unasked,
their suffrages upon the former in the new election ; and
can mark the latter with disgrace, by a mortifying refusal.
The constitution is thus frequently renewed, and drawn
b^k, as it were, to its first principles ; which is the most
effectual method of perpetuating the liberties of a state*
Thb people have numerous opportunities of displaying
their just importance,. and of exercising, in person, these
natural rights. Tlie representatives are reminded whose
creatures they are ; and to whom they are accountable
for the use of that power, which is delegated unto them*
The first ma^xims of jurisprudence are ever kept in view
— .that all power is derived from the peoplje — rthat their
happiness is the end of government. ,

Frequent new parliaments are a part of the British
constitution : by them only, the king can know the imme-
diate sense of the nation^. Every supply, which they
grant, is justly, to be coosideredi-as a testimony of the
loyalty and affection, which the nation bear to their sove-
reign ; and by this means, a.mutv^al confidence is created
between the king and his subjects. How pleasing must
such an intercourse of benefits be ! How must a father of
his people rejoice in such dutiful returns for his paternal
care ! With what ardour must his people embrace every
opportunity of giving such convincing proofs, that they
are not insensible of his wise ahd indulgent rule !

Long parliaments have always been prejudicial to th^
prince, who summoned , them, or to the people, who
elected them. In that called by King Charles I, in the
year 1640, the commons proceeded at first, with vigour
and a true patriotick spirit, to rescue the kingdom from

dl4 ON THE L£GIStATIV£ AUTHORITT

the op^reasion under which it then grtfaned^ — ^to retrieve
the liberties of the people, and establish them on the
surest foundations— ^md to remove or prevent^ the per-
nicious consequences, which had arisen, or which, they
dreaded, might arise from the tyrannical exercise of pre*
rogative. They aboli^ed the courts of the star chamber
and high Commission : they reduced the forests to their
ancient bounds: they repealed the oppressive statutes
concerning knighthood : they declared the tar erf shjp
money to be illegal : they presented the petition of rights,
and obtained a ratification of it from the crown. But
when the king unadvisedly passed an act to continue them
till such time as they should please to diss^ve them-
selves, how soon— how fatally did their conduct change !
In what^mijsery did they involve their country ! Those
very men, who, while they had only a constitutional
power, seemed . to have no other aim but to secure imd
improve the liberty and felicity of their constituents, and
to render their sovereign the glorious ruler of a free and
happy people — ^those very men, after they became inde-
pendent of the king and of their electors, sacrificed both
to that inordinate power which had been gil^en them. A
regard for the publick was now no longer the spring'of
their actions : their only view was to ag^grandize them*
selves, and to establish their grandeur on the ruins of
their countf y. Their views imhappily were accomplished.
They overturned the constitution from its very founda-
tion ; and converted into rods of oppression those initru-
ments of power,* which had been put into their hands for
the welfare of the state ; but which those, who had for-
merly given them, could not now reassume. What an
instructive example is this ! How alarming to those, wha
have no influence over their legislators — who have no
security but that the power, whieh was original^ derived

Of THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 215

from the people, and was delegated for their preservation^
niay te abused for their destruction ! Kings are not the
only tyrants : the conduct of the long parliament will
justify me in adding, that kings are not the severest
tyrants.

At the restoration, care was taken to reduce the house
of commons to a proper dependence on the king j but
imn»ediately after their* election, they lost all dependence
upon their constituents, . because they tontinucd during
the pleasure of the crown. The eflFects soon dreadfully
appeared in the long parliament under Charles the second.
They seemed disposed ingloriously to surrender those
liberties, for which their ancestors had planned, and
fought, aind bled : and it was owing to the wisdom and
integrity of two* virtuous ministers of the crown, that
the commons of England were not reduced to a state of
' slavery and wretchedness by the-treachery of their own
representatives, whom they had indeed elected, but^hom
^ey could not remove. Secure of their seats, while they
gratified the crowti,.the members bartered the liberties
of the nation for places and pensions ; and threw into the
scale of prerogative aU that weight, which they derived
from the people in order to counterbalance it.

It was not till some years after the revolution, that the
people could rely on the faithfulness of their represfenti^
tivcs, or punish their perfidy. By the statute 6. W. &
M. €. 2. it was enacted, that parliaments should not con-
tinue longer than three years. The insecure situation of
the first prince of the Hanoverian line, surrounded widx
tlvalt and with epnemies, induced the parliament, soon

• The Earls of Clarebdon and SouthaiBptmi^

216 ON THE LEGISLATIVlft AtJTHORITY

I

\

after his accession to the throne, to prolong this term tm
that of seven years. Attempts have, since that time, been
frequently made to reduce the continuance of parliament^
to the former term : and such attemptshave always been
well received by. the nation. Undoubtedly they deserve
such reception : for long parliaments will naturally forget
their dependence on the people : when this dependence
IS forgotten, they will become corrupt : " Whenever they
^^ become corrupt, the constitution of ^England will lose
" its liberty— it will perish," °

Such is the provision made by the laws of Great Bri-
tain, that the commons should be faithfully represented :
provision is also made, that faithful representatives should
not labour for their constituents in vaim The constitu-
tion is formed in such a manner, that the house of com(«
mons are able as well as willing to protect and defend the
liberties intrusted to their care*

The constitution of Great Britain is that of a limited
monarchy J and in all limited monarchies, the power of
preserving the limitations must be placed somewhere.
During the reigns of the first Norman pi'inces, this power
seems to have i-esided in the clergy and in the barons by

o Mont Sp. L. b. 1 1. c. 6. If the legislative body were perpetual ;
or might last for the life of the prii^ who conrened them, as for-
merly ; and were so to be supplied, by occasionally fiUing the vacaa*
cies with new representatives ; in these cases, if it were caice cor-
rupted, the evil would be j>ast remedy : but when different bodies
succeed each other, if the people see cause to disapprove of the pre-
sent, they may rectify its faults in the next. A legislative assembly
also, which' is sure to be separated again, will think themselves
bound, in interest as well aS duty, to make oobf such laws as are '
Sood^ 1. Bl, C<»Q^ 199,

or THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 217

tums^. But it was lodged very improperly. The clergy
zealous only. for the dignity and precinint^nce of the
church, neglected and despised the people, whom, with
the soil they tilled, they wocJd willingly have considered
as the patrimony of St. Peter. Attached to a fofeign
jurisdiction, and aspiring at an entire independence of the
civil powers, they looked upon the prerogatives of the
crown as so many obstacles in the way of their favourite
scheme of supreme ecclesiastical dominion ; and there-
fore seized, with eagerness, every occasion of sacrificing
tlie interests of their sovereign to those of the/ pope.
£nemies alike to their king and to their country, their ■
sole and unvaried ^im was to reduce both to the tnost
abject state of submission and slavery. The means em-
ployed by them to accomplish their pernicious purposes
were, sometimes, to work upon the superstition of the
people, 4nd direct it against the power of the prince ; and,
at other times, to work upon the superstition of the
prince, and direct it against the liberties of the people.

The power of preserving the limitations of monarchy,
for the purposes of liberty, was not more properly placed
in the barons. Domineering and turbulent, they oppresr
sed their vassals, and treated them as slaves ; they oppo-
•ed their prince, and wfre impatient of every legal
restraint. Capricious and inconstant, they sometimes
abetted the king in his projects of tyranny j and, at other
times, excited the people to insurrections and tumults.
For these reasons, the constitution was ever fluctuating
from one extreme to another ; now despotism — now an-
archy prevailed.

But after the representatives of the commons began t6
sit in a separate house; to be considered a$ a distinct
vol. III. V f

, 218 ON THE LEpiSLATIVE AUTHORITT

branch of the legislature ; and, as such, to be invested
with separate and independent powers and privileges ;
then the constitution assumed-a very different^appearance.
Having no interest contrary to that of the people, from
among whom they were chosen, and with whom^ after the
^ «ession, they were again to mix, they had no views incon-
sistent with the liberty of their constituents, and there-
fore could have no motives to betray it* . Sensible that
prerogative, or a djscretipnary power of acting where
the Uws are silent, is absolutely necessary, and that this
prerogative is most properly intrusted to the executor
of the laws, they did not oppose the exercise of it, whHe
it was directed towards the accomplishment of its origiaal
end: but sensible likewise, that the good of the state
was this original end, they resisted, with vigour, every,
arbitrary measure, repugnant to law, and unsupported
by maxims of publick freedom or utility.

The checks, which they possessed over prerogative;,
were calm and gentle — operating with a secret, bujt eflfec-
tual force- — unlike the impetuous resistance of, factious
barons^ or the boisterous fulminations of ambitious
prelates.

One of the most ancient maxims of the Englislvlair

is, that no freeman can be taxed at pleasure, p But taxes

on freemen were absolutely necessary to dcfi-ay the

*

extraordinary charges of government. The consent of

the freemen was, therefore^ of necessity to be obtained.

Numerous as they were, they*^ could not assemble to give

their consent in their proper persons ; and for this reason,

it was directed by the constitution, that they should givii

-f X. Bac. 56«.

' Ol" THi: BRITISH PARLIAM^BNT, f 19

k'by their representatives, chosen "by and out of them-
«^lv^s." Hence the indisputable and peculiar privilege
of the house of commons to grant taxes. *^

This is the source of that mild but powerful influence,
which the commons of Great Britain possess over the
crown. ' In this consists their security, that prerogative,
intended for their benefit, will never be exerted for their
ruin." By calmly and constitiitionaUy refusing supplies,
or by granting them only oa certain conditions, they
have corrected the extravagancies of some princes, and
have tempered the headstrong nature of others ; they
have checked the progress of arbitrary power, and 'have
supported, with honour to themselves, and with advah"
tage to the nation, the character of grand inquisitors of
the realm. The proudest ministers of the proudest
tnonarchs have trembled at their censures ; ^nd have
appeared at the bar of the house, to give an account of
their conduct, and ask pardon for their faults^ Those
princes, who have favoured liberty^ and thrown them-
selves upon the affections of their people, have ever
fbund that libei'ty which they favoured, and those affec-
tions which they cultivated, the firmest foundations of
their throne, and the most solid support of their power.
The purses of their people have been ever open to supply
their exigencies : their swords have been ever ready to
vindicate their honour. On the contrary, those princes,
-who, insensible to the glory and advantage of ruting a

1 Note. It is said in divers records, '< per cotnmunitatem Angli»
nobis concess." Because all grants of stibsidies or aids by parlia*
ment do begin in the house of commons, and first granted by them^
also because in effect the whole profit which the kimg^ reapetb^ -doib
some from the commoDs. 4. Ins. 29.

, I

220 ON THE lECISLATIVE AtJTHORITt

free people, have preferred to a willing obedienee the
abject submission of slaves, have ever experienced, that
all endeavours to render themselves absolute were but so
many steps to their own downfall.

Such is the^ admirable temperament of the British
constitution ! such the glorious fabrick of Britain's liberty
—the pride of her citizens — ^the envy of her neigh-
bours'—planned by her legislators — erected by her patriots
— m^iintained entire by numerous generations past ! may-
it be maintained entire by numerous generations to
come!

f

Can the Americans, v^ho are descended from British
ancestors, and inherit all their rights, be blamed^-^an
riiey be blamed hy their brethren in Britain — for claim*»
ing still to enjoy those rights ? But can they enjoy them^
if they are bound by the acts of a British parliament ?
Upon what principle does the British parliament found
their power ? Isf Jt founded on the prerogative of the
king? His prerogative does not extend to make laws to
bind any of his subjects. Does it reside in the lioustC of
lords ? The peers are a collective; and not a representa-
tive body. If it resides any where, then, it must reside
in the house of commons.

Should any one object here, that it docs not reside in
the house of commons only^ because that house cannot
make laws without the consent of the king and of the
lords ; the answer is easy. Though the concurrence of
all the braiiches of the legislature is necessary to every
law ; yet the same laws bind different persons for differ*
ent reasons, and on different prindples. The king is
bound) because he assented to them. The lords are-

or THE BRITISH PARLIAMSNT. 321

bound, because they vdted for them. The representa-
tives of the commonS) for the same reason, bind them«

selves, and those whom they i'eptesent.

«

If the Americans are bound neither by the assent of
llie king, nor by the votes of the lords, to obey acts of
the British parliament, the sole reason why they are
bound is, because the representatives of the commons
of Great Britain have given their stiiFrages in favour of
those acts. ^ But ate the representatives of the commons
of Great Britain the representatives of the Americans ?
Art they elected by the Americans^ Are they such as
the Americans, if they had the power of election, would
probably elect ? Do they know the interest of the Am«-
ricans ? Does their own interest prompt them to pursue
the interest of the Americans ? If they do not pursue it»
have the Americans power to punish them ? Can the
Americans remove unfaithful members ^t every new
election ? Can" members, whom the Americans do not
elect; with whom tjie Americans are not connected in
interest ; whom the Americans cannot remove ; ovei"
whom the Americans have tio influence — can such mem-
bers be styled, with any propriety", the magistrates of
the Americans ? Have those, who are bound by the laws
of magistrates not their own, any security for the enjoy-
ment of their absolute rights — those rights, " which
every man is entitled to enjoy, whether in society or
out of it?" • Is it probable that those rights will be main-

*• This is allowed evenb]^ the advocates for parliamentary power;
who acqount fifr its ^tension over the colonies, upon the very
^iird ygjpciple of th^ir bein^ ynrttuUly represented in the housQ
QixSEmox^

. 1. BL Com. Va,

*

'3fit ON THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHOHjTT

tained ? Is it *^^ the primary end of government to jnaiaw
tain them ?"'^ Shall this primary end be frustrated byai^
political maxim intended to promote it?

But from what source does this mighty, this uncon-
trolled authority of the house of commons flow ? From
the collective body of the commons of Great Britam.
This authority must, therefore, originaUy reside in them:
for whatever fhey convey to their representatives, muist
ultimately be in themselves. ^ And have those, whom
we have hitherto, been accustoined to consider as our
fellow subjects, ^an- absolute and unlinuted power over
us^ Have they a natural right to make laws, by which
we may be deprived of our properties, of our liberties^
of our lives f By what title do they claim to be our mas-
ters I What act of ours has ^rendered us subject to those,
to whom we were formerly equal ? Is British freedom
denominated from the soii^ or from the people of Britainf
If from tlie latter, do they lose it by quitting the soil i
Do those, who embark, freemen, in Great Britain^
disembark, slaves, in America? Are those, who fled
from the oppression of regal tmd miaisterial tyranny^
now reduced to a state of vassalage to those, who, then^
equally felt the same oppression I Whence proceeds thi^
fatal change i Is this the return made us for leaving our
friends and our country — ^for braving the danger of the
deep — for planting a wilderness, inhabited only by savage
men and savage beasts — for extending the dominions of

r

^ 1. Bl Com. 124.

* It is selfevident that the power, with relation to the part we
bear in the legislation, is absolutely, is solely in the electors. W«
have no legislative authority but what we derive from them. Debates
«f the Commo&s, vol. 6. p. 75.

<yr THE SRtTlSH PARLIAMXNT; 223

iRe British erown-p— for increasing the trade of the ^ritisk
merchants — ^for'augmenting the rents of the British land-^
lords— for heightening the wages of the British artificers?
Britons should bhish to make such a claim: American*
would blush to own it.

It 14 not, however, the ignominy only, but the dan*^
ger also, with which we are threatened, that affects us«
The many atid careful provisions which are made by the
British constitution, that the elector's of members of
parliament may be prevented frofn choosing representa*.
tives, who would betray them ; and that the represen-
tatives may be prevented from betraying their consti-
tuents with impunity, sufficiently evince, that such
precautions havp been deemed abaolutelj'- necessary
for securing and maintaimng the system of British
liberty.

' How would the commons of Great Britain startle at
a proposal, to deprive them of their share in the legis-
lature, by rendering the house of commons independent
of them! With what indignation would they hear it!
What resentment would they feel and discover against

the authors of it! Yet the commons of Great Britain
«

would suffer less inconvenience from the execution of
such a proposal, than the Americans will suffer from the
extension of the legislative authority of parliament over
them. '

The members of parliament, their families, their
* friends, their posterity must be subject, as well as others,
to the l&ws. Their interest, and that of their families,
friends, and posterity, cannot be different from the inte-
rest of the rest of the nation. A regard to the former

S

224 OK THE LECJISLATIVB AUTHORlTt

will, therefore, direct to such measures as must promote
the latter. &ut is this the case with respect to America?
Are the legislators of Great Britain subject to the laws
which are made for the colonies ? Is their interest the
same with that of the colonies? If we consider it in a
large and comprehensive view, we shall discern it to be
undoubtedly the same ; bul: few will take the trouble to
consider it in that view ; and of those who do, few will
be influenced by the consideration. ^ Mankind are usually
more affected with a near though inferiour interest; than
; . with one that is superiour, but placed at a greater dis-
tance. As the conduct is regulated by the passions, ..it
is not to be wondered at, if they secure the former, by
measures which will forfeit the latten Nay, the lat-
ter will frequently he regarded in the same manner as if
it were prejudicial to them. It is with regret that I pro-
duce some late regulations of parliament as proofs bf
what I have advanced. We have experienced what an ••
easy matter it is for a niinister, with an ordinary share
of art, to persuade the parliament and the people, that
taxes laid on the colonies will ease the burthens of the
tnother country ; which, if the matter is considered in
a proper light, is, in fact, to persuade them, that the
stream of national riches will be increased by dosing up
the fountain, from which they flow.

As the Americans cannot avail themselves of that
check, which interest puts upon the members of parlia-
ment, and which would operate in favour of the commons
of Great Britain, though they possessed no power over
the legislature ; so the love of reputati<Hi, which is apoW«
erful incitement to the legislators to. jM'omote the welfai^^
and obtain the approbaticMi, of those among whonoi thej

Uv^ and whose pnusea or c«i»ttrea wittien^ aod affica

' 6f THE BRITISH PARLIAlitr^IT, 225

4thelii, may liave a contrary operation with regard to the
tsolonies. It msvy become popular and reputable at home
tQ oppress 143- A candidate may recommend himself
•at his election by recounting the many successful in*
:Btances, in which he has sacrificed the interests of 'Ame-
rica to those of Great Britain. A member of the house
of commons may plume himself upon his ingenuity in
inventing schemes to serve the mpther country at the
expense of the colonies ; and may boast of their impo-
tent resentment against him on that accounts

Let us pause here a little.-**-Does neither the love of
^in, the love of praise, nor the love of hohour influence
^he members of the British parliament in favour of the
Americans? On what principles, then-"^n what mo-
tives of action, tan we depend for (he security of our
liberties, of our properties, of every thing dear to us in
life, of life itself ? Shall we depend on their veneration
for the dictates of natural justice ? A very little share
of experience in the world — a very little degree of knbW'^
ledge in the history of men, will sufficiently convince us^
that a regard to justice is by no means the ruling princi-
ple in human nature. He would discover himself to be
a very sorry statesman, who would erect 'a system of
jurisprudence i^pon that slender foundation. " He would
make," as my Lord Bacon says, " imaginary laws, for
imaginary commonwealths ; and his discourses, like the
stars, would give little light, because they are so high.*' ^

But this is not the worst that can justly be said con*
cerning the situation of the colonies, if they are bound
by ihe acts of the British legislature* So far are those

▼2.L4 BacSSr*
TOL. III. G g

Zi6 ON THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY

powerful springs of action, which we have mentioned^
from interesting the members of that legislature in our
favour, that, as has been already observed, we have thie
greatest reason to dread their operation against us. While
the happy commons of Great Britain congratulate, them*- '

. selves upon the liberty which they enjoy, and upon the
provisions-^infallible, as far as they. can be rendered. so
by human wisdom — which are made for perpetuating it

, to their latest posterity ; the unhappy Americans have
reason to bewail the dangerous situation to which they
are reduced ; and to look forward, with dismal appre-
hension, to those future scenes of woe, which, in all
probability, will open upon their descendants*

What has been already advanced will suffice to show^
that it is repugnant to the essential mairims of jurispru«
dence, to the ultimate end of all governments, to the ge-
nius of the British constitution, and to the liberty and
happiness of the colonies, that they should be bound by
the legislative authority of the parliament of Great Bri*
tadn. Such a doctrine is not less repugnant to the voice
of her laws. In order to evince this, I shall appeal to
some authorities from the books of the law^ which show
expressly, or by a necessary implication, that the colo-
nies are not bound by the acts of the British parliament;
because'they have no share ii^ the British legislature.

The first case I shall mention was adjudged in,, the
second year of Richard the third. It was a solemn de-
termination of all the judges of England, met in the
exchequer chamber, to consider whether the people ia
Ireland were bound by an act of parliament made in
England. They resolved, " that they were not, as to
such things as were done in Ireland ; but that what they

- t

OF THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT.

22r

did out of Ireland must be conformable to the laws of
£n gland, because they were the subjects of England*
Ireland/' said they, " has a parliament, who make
laws; and our statutes do not bind them ; because they do
not s&nd knights to parliament: but their persons ar5 the
subjects of the king, in the same manner as the inhabi*
tants of Calais, Gascoignc, arid Guienne,'*^

This is the first case which we find in the books upon, *
this subject; and it deserves to be. examined with the
most minute attention.

!• It appears, that the matter under consideration

Kfas deemed, at that time, to be of the greatest import-

imce : for ordinary causes are never adjourned into the

exchequer chamber ; only such are adjourned there as

are of uncommon weight, or of uncommon difiiculty.

** Into the exchequer chamber," says my Lord Coke,*

^ all cases of difficulty in the king's bench, or pommon

pleas, &c. are, and of ancient time have been, adjourned,

and there debated, argued, and resolved, by all the

judges of England and barons of the exchequer." .. This

court proceeds with the greatest deliberation, and upon

the most mature reflection. The case is first argued

on both sides by learned counsel ; and then openly on

Beveral days^' by all the judges. Resolutions made with

vso much caution, and founded on so much legal know^

• ledge, may be relied on as the surest evidences of what

is law.

s

^2. It is to be observed, that the extent of the legis-
lative authority ^f parliament is the^ve^;&om^of the

"^ 4 Mod^ 395. r. R^. %% Ik Cal^ift'f caie. ^ » 4 b». 110.

22$

ON THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITT

adjudication* Th^e decision was not incidental or ind»-
gested : it >vas not a sudden opinion, unsupported by
i'eason and argument : it was an express and deliberate
resolution of that very doubt, which, tbej assembled to
resolve.

3. It is very observable, that the reason, which those
reverend sages of the law gave, why the people in Ire-
land were not bound by^ an act of parliament made in
England, was the same with that, on which the Americans
have founded their opposition to the late statutes made
concerning them. The Irish did not send members to
parliament; and, therefore,, they were not bound by its
acts. From hence it undeniably appears, that parliamen-
tary authority is derived solely from representation< — that
those,, who are bound by acts q£ parliament, are bound
for this only reason", because they are represented, ia it.
If it were not the only reason, parliamentary authority
might subsist independent of it. But as parliamentary
authority fails whereyer this^^ reason does not operate,
parliamentary authority can be founded on no other prin-
ciple. The law never ceases, but when the reason of it
ceases also.

4* It deserves to be remarked, that no exception i»
made of any statutes, which bind those who are tiot rer
presented by the makers of thera. The resolution of
the judges extends to every statute : they say, without
limitation-^" our statutes do not bind them." And in-
deed the. resolution ought to extend to every statute ;
because the reason, on which it is founded, extends to
every one. If a person is bound only|because ,he is re-
presented, it bust certainly follow that wherever, he is
not represented he i^not boimd.. No soundc argument

or THE BRITISH PARLIAHTENr.

1^0^

^an be offered, why one statute should be obligatory i»
such circdmstances, and nbt another. If we cannot be
deprived of our property by those, whom we do not
eommission for that purpose ; can we, without any such
commission, be deprived, by them, of our lives ? Have
those aright to imprison and gibbet us, who have not «
sight to tax ui ?

5. From this authority it follows, that it is by na
means a rule, that the authority of parli^ament extends
to all the subjects of the -crown. The inhabitants of Ire-
land were' the subjects of the king as of his crown of
England ; but it is expressly resolved, in the most solemn
manner, that the inhabitants of Ireland are not bound by
the statutes of £ngland. Allegiance to the king and
obedience to the parliament are founded on very
different principles. The former is * founded on protec*
tion : the latter, on representation. An inattention to
this difference has produced, I apprehend, much uncer*
tainty and confusion in #ur ideas concerning the con-^
jiexbn, which ought to subsist between Great Britain
iind the American colonies.

6. The last observation which I shall make on this
«a^ is, that if the inhabitants of Ireland are not bound
by acts of parliament made in England, a fortiori^ the
inhabitants of the American colonies are not bound by
them. There are marks of the subordination of Ireland
to Great Britain^ which cannot be traced in the colonies.
A writ of erroiir lies from the king's bench in Ireland, t
to the king's bench, and consequently to the house of
liorxlsy in Englanct:; by'W^bich means thg foi^mer kingdofm

7 4. las. 856.

i$ .subject to the control of the eoarta of justice of the
l^ter kingdom. But. a writ of errour does not lie in
the kifng's bench^ nor before the house of lords, in £n-»
gl^md^ from the colonies df America* The* proceedings
in th^ir courts of justice can be reviewed sind controlled:
only on an appeal to the king in cpunciL '

The foregoing important decision, favourable to the
liberty of all the dominions of the British crown that
are not represented in th^ British Pariiament, has been
corroborated by subsequent adjudications. I shall men-
tion one that was given in the king's b^ach, in the fifth
year of King William and Queen Mary^ between Blanks
ard and Galdy. ^

• ...
The plaintiff was provost iii^f^al of Jamaica, and by
articles, granted a deputation of that office to the-defen*
dant, under a yearly rent* Th« defendant gave his bond
for the performance of the agreement ; and an action of
debt was brought upon that bosd* In bar of the actios^
the defendant pleaded the statute of 5* £d^• 6. made
against buying and selling of offices that c<!>ncem the ad^
ministration of justice, and averred that th^s office con*
cemed the administration of justice in Jamaica, and that,
by virtue of that statute, both the bond and articles were
void. To this plea the plaintiff replied, that Jamaica was an
island inhabited formerly by the Spaniards, " that itwas
Conquered by the subjects of the kingdom of England^
commissioned by legal and sufficient a^uthority for that
purpose ; and that since that conquest ita inhabitants
were regulated' and governed by their own proper laws
^d statues, and not by acts xif parlislnent or the sta^
tutes of the kingdom of England." The defendant, in

. i. " • ■
> 1. Bl. Com. 108. 2^ t » 4. Mod. 215. Salk. 411.

\

-01 THJE BRITISH YArLiAHBHT. ' S4l

l^ rejoinder, admits that, before the conquest of Jatnai^
ca by. the finglish, the inhabitants vere governed by
their own laws, but alleges that ^^ since the con4ae8t'it
wa& part of the kingdom of England, and governed*by
the laws and statutes of the kingdom of England, and not
by laws and statutes peculiar to the island»^' To this
rejoinder the fdaintiff demurred, and the. defendant joined
indemurrer«

T
'«

Here was a cause to be determined judicially upon this
single question in law*— Were the sitt^ of parliament or
statutes of England in force in Jamaica ? It was argued
OB the opposite sides by lawyers. of the greatest emi*
nence, before Lord Chief Justice Holt (a name renowned
m the law) and his brethren, the justices of the king's
bench, Thejr unanimously gave judgment for tha plain*
tiff; and, by that judgment, expressly determiued— ?
That the acts of parliament or statutes of England wer^
fkot ia force in Jamaica. This decision is explicit in fa-
vour of America ; for whatever was resolved concerning
Jamaica is equally applicable to every American co-
lony»

Some years after the adjudication of this case, ano«
ther was determined in the king's bench, relating to
Virginia; in which Lord Chief Justice Holt held, -that
the laws of England did not extend to Virginia. ''

I must not be so uncandid as to conceali that in Cal-
vin's case, where the above mentioned decision of the
judges in the exchequer chamber, concerning Ireland,
is quoted, it is added, by way of explanation of that
authority, — " which is to be understood, unless it (Ire-

b Sajk. 666.

/'

iB3ft OK TfllB XEGMLATIVB AtrffiOHlTT

*•

Ijmd) be especially named." Nor will I conceal thai
the same exception ^ is taken notice of, and seems to be
allowed, by the judges in the other cases relating to
America. To any objection that may, hence, be formed
against my doctrine, I answer, in the words of the very
Accurate Mr. Justice Foster, that ^^ general rules throwii
out in argument, and carried farther than the true state
of the case then in judgment requireth, have, I confessi
no great weight with me." ^

The question before the judges in the , cases I haT:e
reasoned from, was not bow far the naming of persons
in an act of parliament would affect them ; though, un-
less named, they would not be lK>und^foy it: the ques«
tion was, whether the legislative authority of parKament
lextended over the inhabitants of Ireland or Jamaica
or Virginia. To the resolution of the latter question
^e resolution of the former was by no means necessary,
and was, therefore, wholly impertinent to the point of
the adjudication.

But farther, the reason assigned for the resolution of
the latter question is solid and convincing : the Ameri-
can colonies are not bound by the acts of the British
parliament, because they are not represented in it. But
what reason can be assigned why they should be bound
by those acts, in which they are specially named ? Does
naming them give those, who do them that honour, a
right to rule over themf Is this the source of the supreme,

6 This exception does not seem to be taken in the case of
fUL Riehard HL which was the foundation of an the subsequent

^ Post. 31S.

OF THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 23$'

tlie absolute, the irresistible, the uncontrolled autho-
rity of parliament i These positions are too absurd
to be alleged ; and a thousand judicial determinations
in their favour would never induce one man of sense to
subscribe his assent to them* ®

The obligatory force of the Briti^ statutes upon the
colonies, when named in them, must be accounted for,
by the advocates of that power, upon some other prin-
ciple. In my Lord Coke,'s Reports, it is said, ^^ that
albeit Ireland be a distinct domiaion, yet, the title
thereof being by conquest^ the same, by judgment of
law, may be, by express words, bound by the parlia-
ments of England." In this instance, the obligatory
authority of the parliament is plainly referred to a title
by conquest, as its foundation and original. In the.
instances relating to the colonies, this authority seem»

t Where a decision is manifestly absurd and unjust, such a sen-
tence is not law. 1. Bl Com. 70.

The legality of the opinion " that the people in Ireland were
bound by the statutes of England, when particularly named by
them," seems alberwards to have been doubted of by Lord Coke
himself, in another place of his works. After having mentioned
the resolution in the exchequer chamber in the time of Richard the
third, and having taken notice that quesdon is made of it in some
of the books, and particularly in Calvin's case, he says, " that the
question concerning the binding force of English statutes over Ii-e*
land is now by common experience and opinion without any scruple
reserved ; that the acts of parliament made in England, since the
Act of the 10th H. 7. (he makes no exceptions) do not bind tUem in
Ireland ; but aU acts made in England before 10. H. 7. by the said
act made in Ireland An, \0.H. 7. c. 32, do bind them in Ireland." 12.
Rep. 111. ,

VOL, IIIp h h

\

•*34 ON THE L£GI6LATIV£ AUTHORIXr

t6 be referred to the same source ; for any one, wh0.
compares what is said of Irelahd> and other conquered
countries, in Calvin's case, with what is said of America,
in the adjudications concerning it, will find that the
judges, in determining the latter, have grounded their
opinions on the resolutions given in the former. ^ It is
foreign to my purpose to inquire into the reasonableness
of founding the authority of the British parliament over
Ireland, upon the title of conquest, though I believe it
would be somewhat difficult to deduce it satisfactorily in
this manner. It will be sufficient for me to show, that
k is unreasonable, and injurious to the coloilies^ to
extend that title to them. How came the colonists to
be a conquered people? By whom was the conquest
over them obtained ? By the house of commons i By the
constituents of that house i If the idea of conquest must
be taken into consideration wi)en we examine into the
title by which America is held,, that idea, so far as it

f It is plain that Blackstone understood the opinion of the judget
•—that the colonies are bound by acts of the British parliament, if
named in them — to be founded on the principle of conquest it
will not be imprq>er to insert his commentary upon the resolntioiiff
respecting America. ^ Besides these adfaceat islands, (Jersey, &c.)
oar more distant plantations in America and elsewhere are also, ^
some reacts, subject to the J^gUshlaws. Plantations, or colonie*
in distant countries, are either such where the lands are claimed ixk^
right of occupancy only, by finding them desart and uncultivated^
and peopling them from the mother country; or where, when,
already cultivated, they have been either gained by conquest, or
ceded to us by treaties. , Our Anierican plantations are princ^^y
of this latter sort ; being obtained in the last century, evdier hyrigh^
ofconqueH^ and driving out the natives (with what natural justiso
I shall not at present inquire) or by treaties.'' 1. RL Com. 106. l^)?".
^ Lord Chief Justice Holt, in a case above cited, calls^ix^i^ia'ir
conquered country. Salk;6$6.'

OF THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT.
can operat^) will operate in favour of the colonists,, and
not against them. Permitted and commissioned byitbe
crown, they undertook, at their own expense, expedi^
tions to this distant country, took possession of it, planted
ft, and cultivated it* Secure under the protection of
their king, they grew and multiplied, and diffused British
freedom and British spirit, wherever they came* Happy
in the enjoyment of liberty, and in reaping the fruits of
their toils ; .but still more happy in the joyful prospect
of transmitting their liberty and their fortunes to the latest
posterity, they inculcated to their children the wannest
sentiments of loyalty to their sovereign, under whose
auspices they enjoyed so many blessings, and of,liffection
and e&teem for the inhabitants of the mother country, with
whom they gloried in being intimately connected* X^es-
sons of loyalty to parliament, indeed, they never gave:
they never suspected that such unheard of loyalty would
be required* They never suspected that their descendants
would be considered and treated as a conquet-ed people $
imd therefore they never taught them the submission and
abject behaviour suited to that character.

'I am sufficiendy aware of an objection, that will be
tdade to what I have aald concerning the legislative au-
thority of the British parliament* It will be alleged, that
I throw off all dependence on Great Britain* .This ob-
jection will be held forth, in its most specious cqlovirs, by
those, who, from servility of soul, or from mercenary cto-
siderations, would meanly bow their necks to every easer*
tion of arbitrary pi>wer : it may likewise alarm some^ who
entertain the most fiavourable opihion of the connexion
between Great Britain and her colonies ; but who areno^
sufficiently acquainted with the nature of that connexion,
which is so dear to them* Those of the first class, I hope,

236 OW THE lECISLATlVE AUTHrORlTT

V are few ; I am sure they are contemptible, and deserve
to ha^re very^ little regard paid to them : but for the sake
of those of the second class, who may be more numerous^
and whose laudable principles atone for their mistakes, I
•h^ take some pains to obviate the objection, and to show
that a denial of the lejg^slative authority of the British
parliament over America is by no means inconsistent
with that connexion, which ought to subsist between the
mother. country and her colonies, and which, at the first
settlemoit of thos^ colonies, it was intended to maintain
between them^: but that, on the contrary, that connexion
would be entirely destroyed by the extension of ^c
power of parliament over the American plantations.

Let US examine what is meant by a tiSr/»en^<mc^ on Great

•Britain: for it is always of importance clearly to define

the terms that we use. Blackstone, who, speaking of the

colonies, tells us, that *^ they are no part of the mother

:** country, but distinct (thoiigh^dependcnt) dominions," i^

eecplains dependence in this manner. ^^ Dependence is

^^ very little else, but an obligation to conform to the will

^^ or law of that superiour person or stftte, upon which the

^* inferiour depends* The original and true ground of fliis

** superiority, in the case of Ireland, hi what we usually

^ call, though somewhat improper^, the right of con-

** quest ; a right allowed by the law of nations, if not by

^* that of nature ; but which, in reason and civil jxdicy,

•^ can mean nothing more^ than that, in order to put an end

^ to hostilities, a compact is eifher expressly or tacitly

^ made between the conqueror and the conquered, that if

^* they will acknowledge the victor for their master, he

^^ will treat them for the future as subjects^ and not as

*♦ enemies.'' '^

i ^. BL Coin. lor. iild.103.

t>r THfi BRITISH PAftLlAHEMT*- %3T

The original and true groutid of thie fiuperiori^ o£
Great Britain over the American colonies is not shown in
any book of the law, unless, as I have alreadjr observed,
it be derived from the right of conquest. But I haye
pfTOved, and I hope satisfactorily, that this right is alto-
gether inapplicable to th^ colonists. The original of th^
superiority of Great Britain over the colonies is^ then^
unaccounted for ; and when we consider the ingenuity
and pains which have lately been employed at home on
this subject^ we may justly conclude^ that the only reason
.why it is not accounted fpr, is, that it eannot be accounted
fan The superiority of Great Britain over the colonies
ought, therefore, to be rejected j and the dependence of
the colonies upon her, if it is to be construed ii^to ^^ an
obligation to conform to the will or law of the superiour
state," ought, in this sense, to be rejected also.

My sentiments concerning this matter are not singular*
They coincide with the declarations and remonstrances of
the colonies against the statutes imposing taxes op them*
Jt was their unanimous opinion, that the pa^rlianient have
no right to exact obedience to those statutes ^ and, con-
-sequendy, that the c<Jonies are under no obligation to
obey them. The dependence of the colonies on Great
Britain was denied, in those instances ; but a denial of it
in those instances is, in effect, a denial of it in all. other
instances. Fbr, if dependence is an obligation to conform
to. the will or law of the superiour st^te, any exceptions
to that obligation mu^t destroy the dependence. If,.theire*
fore, by a dependence of the colonies on Great Britain,
it is mejant, that they are obliged to obey the laws of
.<^reat Britain, reason, as well as the unanimous voice of
the Americans, teaches us to disown it* Such a depen«
dence was never thought of by those who left Britain, in^

18S8 ON THE LEOIftLATlTB AXTTBORITT

f

order to settle in America ; nor by their sovereigns, who
gave them commissions for that purpose. Such an obli«-
gation has no correspondent right : for the comnxmB of
d^at Britain have no dominion over their equals and
fellow subjects In America : they can confer no rig;lit
to their delegates to bind those equals and fellow subjects
bylaws.

There is another, and a much more reasonable mean*

ing, which may be intended by the dependence of the

colonies on Great Britain. The phrase may be used to

denote the obedience and loyalty, which the colonists

owe to the iings of Great Britain. If it should be al**

leged, that this cannot be the meaning of the expression^

because it is applied to the kingdom, and not to the king-^

I give the same answer that my Lord Bacon gave to those

who said that allegiance related to the kingdom and not

to the king ; because in the statutes there are these

words — ^^ bom within the allegiance of England" — and

again — ^^ bom without the allegiance of England*''

^ There is no trope of speech more fiimiltar," says he^

** than to use the place of addition for the person. So

We say commonly, die line of York, or the line of Lan«»

caster, for the lines of the duke of York, or the duke of

Lancaster. So we say the possessions of Somerset or

Warwick, intending the possessions of the dukes of

Somerset, or earh of Warwick. And in the very same

manner, the statute spei^s, allegiance of Engfamd, for

allegiance of the king of England."^

Dependence on the mother country seems to have
been understood in this sense, both by the first pla&tem

^ 4 Ld. Bac 193. 19a. Caseof tkepostoadofScotlaiil.

or THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT. 239*

of the colonies, anci also by the most eTuinent lawyers^
at that time, in England.

Those who launched into the unknown deep, in quest
of new countries and habitations, still considered them*
selves as subjects of the English monarchs, and behaved
suitably to that character ; but it no where appesir&, that
they still considered themselves as represented in an
English parliament,, or that they thought the authority of
the English parliament extended over them. They took
possession of the country in the king^s name : they treat-
ed, or made war with the Indians by his authority : they
held the lands under his gtants^ and paid Aim the rents
reserved upon them : tliey established governments un-
der the sanction of his prerogative, or by virtue of his-
charters : — ^no application for those purposes was made
to the parliament : no ratification of the charters or let-
ters patent was solicited from that assembly, as is u«uat
in Etigland with regard to grants and franchises of muchs
less importance.

My Lord Bacon^s sentiments on thk subject ought to,
have great weight with «:is. His immense genius, his uni»-
versal learning, his deep insight into the laws and constitu--
tionof England, are well known and much admired. Be--
fiides, he lived at that time when settling and improving the
Americanplantations began seriously tobe attended to, and
successfully to be carried into execution. J Plans for the
government and regulation of the colonies were then?
forming : and it is only from the first general idea of

j During the reign of Queen EHzabetb, America was chidBy
valued on accoimt of its mines. It was not tiU the reign of James 1.
that any vigoroiis i^ttetspts were madt to ctei^r andim^ye the soil^

24© ON THE LEGISLATXYj;: AUTHORITY

these plans, that we can unfold, with precision and ale-
curacy, all the more niinute and intricate paris^ of which
they now consist* " The settlement of colonics," says
. he, ^^ must proceed from the option of those iwho will
settle them, else it sounds lilce an exile : they must be
raised by the kave^ and not by the command oi Hit king.
At their setting out, they must have their commission,
or letters patent, from the king^ that so they may ac-
knowledge their dependency upon the crovm of England,
and under his protection." In another place he says,
"^ that they still must be subjects of the realm*** k " In
order to regulate all the inconveniences, which wiO kn^
sensibly grow upon them," he proposes, ^V that the king^
should erect a subordinate council in England, whose
care and charge shall be, to advise, and put in execution,
all things which shall be found fit for the good of those
new plantations ; who, upon all occasions, shall give an
account of their proceedings to the king or the council
board, andfrom them receive such directions^ as may best
agree with the government of that place."* It is evident,
from these quotations, that my Lord Bacon had no con-
ception that the parliament would or ought to interpose,*"
either in the settlement or the ^government of the colo-
nijes* The only relation, in which he says the calonists
must still continue, is that of subjects ; the only depen-

^ Tlie parliameDt have no subjects. My Lord Bacon, gives, m
this expression, an instance of the trope of speech before mention*
ed He safs, the subjects of Uie reaini^ when he means the subjects
^ the king df the realm.

1 1 . Ld. Bac. 725, 726.

n It was chiefly duriiig the ccmfuaions of the republic^, wh^ the
khig was in exile, and aoable to assert his ri^^ts,, that the house of
oomrnQos-beipw to interfere in CQlony inajtjters^'

(
I

or THE BRITISH PAKLIAMENT. 341

dency, which they ought to acknowledge, is a depen-
dency on the ciown.

>

This IS a dependence, which they have acknowledged
hitherto ; which they acknowledge nbw ; and which, if
it is reasonable to judge of the future by the past and the
present, they will continue to acknowledge hereafter. It
18 not a dependence, like that contended for on parliament,
slavish and unaccountable, or accounted for only by prin-
ciples that are false and inapplicable : it is a dependence
founded upon the principles of reasoi), of liberty, and of,
law* Let us investigate its sources.

The colonists'ought to be dependent on the king, be*
cause they have hitherto enjoyed, and still continue to
enjoy, his protection. Allegiance is the faith and obe-
dience, which every subject owes to his prince4 This
obedience is founded on the protection derived from.
' government 2 for protection and allegiance are the reci-
procal bonds, which connect the prince and his subjects. '^
Every subject, so soon as he is bom, is under the royal
protection, and is entitled to all the advantages arising
from it. He therefore owes obedience to that ro\al
power, from which the protection, which he enjoys, is
derived. But while he continues in infancy and non-age,
he cannot perform the duties which his allegiance re-
quires. The performance of them must be respited till
he*arrive at the years of discretion and maturity. When

» Between the sovereign and subject there is duplex et recipro-
cum ligamen ; quia sicut subditus regi tenetur ad obedientiam ; ita
rex subdito tenetur ad protectionem : merito igitur ligeantia dicitur
a ligando, quia continet in se duplex ligamen. 7. Rep, 5a. Calvin's
case.

YOd. III. 11

342 eW THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY

he arrives at those years, he owes obedience, not only for
the protection which he now enjoys, but abo for that
'which, from his birth, he has enjoyed ; and to which his
tender age has hitherto prevented him from mdcing a
suitable return. Allegiance now becomes a duty founded
upon principles of gratitude, as well as on principles of
interest : it becomes a debt, which nothing but the loyalty
of a whole life will discharge. ^ As neither climate, nor
soil, nor time entide a person to the benefits of a subject;
so an alteration of climate, of soil, or of time cannot
release him from the duties of one. An Englishman,
who removes to foreign countries, however distant from
England, owes the same allegiance to his king there
which he owed him at home ; and will owe it twenty
years hence as much as he owes it now. Wherever he is, he
is still liable to the punishment annexed by law to crimes
against his allegiance ; and still entitled to thesadvantages
promised by law. to the duties of it : it is not cancelled i
and it is not forfeited. ^^ Hence all childi'en bom in any
'^ part of the world, if they be of English |torents con*
^* tinning at that time as liege subjects to the king, and
" having done no act to forfeit the- benefit Of their alle-
" giance, are /^*o yiic^a naturalized : and if they have
^ issue, and their descendants intermarry among them*
^ selves, such descendants are naturalized to all genera-
« tions." P

o The king is protector of all his subjects : in virtue of hb high
trust, he is more particularly to take care of those who are not
aUe to take care of themselves, consequeatly of in&nts, who, bj
re^sGii of their oooage, are under incapacities ; from hence natural
aUe^iance arises, as a debt of gratitude, which can never be can-
celled, though the subject owing it goes out of the kingdom, or
swears allegiuice to another prince. 3. P. Wms. 123. 134.

9 i.Ld.Bacl93.Caseofthepo6tiiatiofScotIaiMi

OT THE 9RITXS^ ?ARL1AM£NT» %4t^

Thu3 we see, that the subjeets of the k^ng, thoa^
tjiey reside in foreign countries, still owe the ^duties of
aHegiance, and are still entitled to the advantages of it«
They transmit to their posterity the privilege of naturali-
zation, and all the other privileges which are the con-
sequences of it* t

Now we have explained the dependence of the Ame-
ricans. Th^yare thesubject3of the king of Great Britain.
They owe him allegiance. They have a right to the
benefits which arise from preserving that allegiance invio-
late* They are liable to the punishments which await
those who break it. This is a dependence, which they
have always boasted of. The principles of loyalty are
deeply rooted in their hearts ; and there they will grow
and bring forth fruit, while a drop of vital blood remains
%o nourish them. Their history is not stained with
rebellious and treasonable machinations: an inviolable
attachment to their sovereign^ and the warmest zeal for
his glory, shine in every page. I

From ibis dependence, abstracted from eveiy other
source, arises a strict connexion between the inhabitants
of Great Britain and those of America. They are fel-
low subjects ; they are under allegiance to the same
prioce ; and this union of allegiance naturally produces
n ttftion of hearts. It is also productive of a union of
oflMsasttres through the whole British dominions. To the

^ Natural bom subjects have a great variety o^ rights, irhich
they acquire by being bom in the king's ligeance/ and can never
forfeit by any distance of place or time, but only by their own mis*
behaviour ; the explanation of which rights is the principal subject
ofthela\V. 1. Bl.C0m.3n.

I

544 OK' THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY

king is intrusted the direction and management of the
great machine of government. He therefore is fittest
to adjust the different wheels, and to regulate their
motions in such a manner as to cooperate in the saikie
general designs. He makes war: he concludes peace:
he forms alliances ; he regulates domestick trade hy his
prerogative, and. directs foreign commei;ce by his treaties'
with those nations, with whom it is carried on. He
names the officers of government ; so that he can check
every jarring movement in the administration. He has
a negative on the different legislatures throughout his
dominions, so that he can prevent any repugnancy in .
their different laws.

The connexion and harmony between Great Britain
and us, which it is her interest and ours mutually to cul-
tivate, and on which her prosperity, as well as ours, so
materially depends, will be better preserved by the opera-
tion of the legal prerogatives of the crown, than by the
exertion of an unlimited authority by parliament.'

^ After consideriDg, with all the attention of which I am capaUet
the foregoing opinion— that all the different members of the British
empire ^re distinct states, independent of each other, but connected
together under the same sovereign in right of the same crown — ^I
discover only one objection that can he offered against it. But this
objection will, by many, be deemed a fatal one. " How, it will
be urged, can the trade of the British empire be carried on, withoot
some power, extending over the whole, to regulate it ? The legis.
lative authority of each part, according to your doctrine, is confiiied
witi)in the loc^ bounds of that part : how, then, can so many inter-
fering interests and claims, a^ must necessarily meet and contend!
in the commerce of the whole, be decided and adjusted ?" '

Permit me to answer these questions by proposing some others
in my turn. How has the trade of Europe — how has the trade of

Of THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT.

MS

Che whole globe, been carried on? Have those widely extended
plans been formed by one superintendmg power? Have they beeii
carried into execution by one superintending power ? Have they
been formed — ^have they been carried into execution, with less con-
formity to the rules of justice and equality, than if they had been
under the direction of one superintending power ?

/

It has been the opinion of some politicians, of no inferiour note,
that all regulations of trade are usele^ ; that the greatest part of
them are hurtful ; and that the streaiti of commerce Aever flows
with so much beauty and advantage, as when it is not diverted
£rom its natural channels. Whether this opinion is well founded or
not, let others determine. Thus much may certainly be said, that '
commerce is not so properly the object of laws, as of treaties and
compacts. In this manner, it has been always directed among th«.
several nations of Europe.

But if the commerce of the British empire must be regulated bf
a general superintending power, capable of exerting its influenc*
over every part of it, why may not this power be intrusted to th«
king, as a part of the royal prerogative ? By making treaties>
which it is his prerogative to make, Jie directs the trade of Great
Brit^ with the other states of Europe : and his treaties witli thos«
states have, when considered with regard to his subjects, aUthe
binding force of laws upon them. (1. Bl. Com. 352.) Where is
the absurdity in supposing him vested with the same right to regu-
late the commerce of the distinct parts of his dominions with one
another, which he has to regulate their commerce with foreign
states ? If the history of the British constitution, relating to this
Subject, be carefully traced, I apprehend we shall discover, that a
prerogative in the crown, to regulate trade, is perfectly consistent
with the principles of law. We find many authorities that the
king cannot lay impodtions on traffick ; and that he cannot restrain
it altogether J nor confine it to monopolists: but none of the autho-
rities, that I have had an opportunity of consulting, gp any &rther.
Indeed many of them seem to imply a power m the crown to regu-
late trade, where that power is exerted for the great end of aU
prerogative— the piiblick good.

ON TK^.LEGlSLATXVJt' AUTHORITY, &C*

if the power of regulating trade be, as I am apt to believe it te
be, Tested) by ^e pxiociples of the constitution, in the crown, this
good efiect will flow from the doctrine : a perpetual distinction will
be kept up between that power, and a power of laying impositions on
trade. The prerogative will extend to the former: it can, under
no pretence, extend to the latter : as it is given, so it is linuted^ by
the la w.

SPEECH

DELIVERS]) IN THE

CONVENTION FOR THE PROVINCE

OF

PENNSYLVANIA,

HELD AT PHCLADELPHU,

IN^ANUAET, 1775.

* i

SPEECH

IN CONVENTION,
IN JANUARY, 1575.

W HENCE, Sir, proceeds all the invidious and ill-
grounded clamour against the colonists of America? Why
are they stigmatized, in Britain, as licentious and ungo-
vernable? Why is their virtuous opposition to the illegal at-
tempts of their governours represented under the falsest
colours, and placed in the most ungracious point ot
view i This opposition, when exhibited in its true light
and when viewed, with unjaundiced eyes, from a proper
situation, and at a proper distance, stands confessed the
lovely offspring of freedom* It breathes the spirit of
its parent. Of this ethereal spirit, the whole conduct,
and particularly the late conduct, of the colonists has

«

shown them eminently possessed. It has animated and
regulated every part of. their proceedings. It has been
recognised to be genuine, by aU those symptoms and

VOL* HI. K k

/

250 SPEECH DEltVERED IN THE

effects, by which it has been distinguished in otfifer ages*
and other countries. It has been calm and regular : if
has not acted without occasion : it has not acted disproi-
portionably to the occasion. As the attempts, open or
secret, to undermine or to destroy it, have been repeated
or enforced ; in a just degree, its vigilance and its vigour
have been exerted to defeat or Uo disappoint them. A»
its exertions have been sufficient for those purposes
hitherto, let us hence draw a joyful • prognostick, that
they will continue sufficient for those purposes hereafter.
It h not yet exhausted ; it will still operate irresistibly
whenever a necessary occasion shall call forth ks strengths

Permit me, sir, by appealing, in a few instances, to
the 9[>irk and conduct of the colonists, to evince, that
what I have sard of them is just. Did they disclose any
imeasiness at the proceedings and claims of the British
parliament, before those claims and proceedings afforded
a reasonable cause for It ? Did they even disclose any un^
easiness, when a reasonable cause for it was first given ?
Our rights were invaded by their regulations of otn* irtfc
temal policy. We submitted to tbem : we were unw3-
ling to oppoi^e them. The spirit of liberty was sl6w td
acti Mfhen those invasions were renewfed; when the
efficacy and malignancy of them were attempted to be
redoubled by the stamp act ; when chains were farmed
for us J and preparations were made for rivetting thfem
on our limbs— what measures did we pursue l- The s:pU
rit of liberty found it necessary now to act: but she
acted with the calmness and decent dignity suited to her
character. Were we rash or seditious i Did we dis^
cover want of loyalty to our soyereign ? Di* ire bt&itf
want of affection to our brethren in Britain? Let6iii^
dutiful and reverential petitions to the tIirote^-4<r6ttJr

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 251

irespectful, though firm, remonstrances to the parliament
—let our warm and affectionate addresses to our brethren,
and (we will still call them) our friends in Great Britain
——let all those, transmitted from every part of the conti-
-iient) testify the truth. By their testimony let our con-
.duct be tried.

. As our proceedings during the existence and operation
of the stamp act prove fully and incontestably the painful
sensations that tortured our breasts from the prospect of
^disunion with Britain ; the peals of joy, which burst
forth upiversally, upon the repeal of that ddious statute,
loudly proclaim the heartfelt delight produced in us by a
reconciliation with her. Unsuspicious, because unde-
signing, we buried our complaints, and the causes of
them, in oblivion, and returned, with eagerness, >to our
former unreserved confidence. Our connexion with our
parent country, and the reciprocal blessings resulting
from it to her and to us, were the favourite and pleasing
vtopicks of our publick discourses and our private con^
versations.. Lulled into delightful security, we dreamt
iof nothing bjut increasing fondness and friendship, ce-*
<mented and strengthened by a kind and perpetual com*
.^munication of good offices. Soon, however, too soon^
were we awakened from the soothing dreams! Our
enemies renewed their designs against us, not with less
•malice, but with iqore art. Under the plausible pretence
of regulating our trade, and, at the same time, of making
provision for the administration of justice, and the sup-
port of government, in some of the colonies, they pur-
-sued their scheme of dejniving us of Our property with-
out our consent* As the attempts to distress us, and to
degrade us to a rank inferiour to that of freemen^ ap»
peared now t& \^ r«due/^.d into a regular fiyl^teni, it

\
I

252 SPEECH DELIVERED IN THE

became proper, on our part, to form a regular system
for counteracting them. We ceased to import goods
from Great Britain. Was this measure dictated t^
selfishness or by licentiousness ? Did it not injure our-
selves, while it injured the British merchants and manu-
facturers ? Was it inconsistent with the peaceful demea-
nour of subjects to abstain from making purchases, when
our freedom and our safety rendered it necessary for us
to abstain from them i A regard for our freedom and
our safety was our only motive ; for no sooner had the
parliament, by repealing part of the revenue laws, ip-i
spired us with the flattering hopes that they had departed
from their intentions of oppressing and of taxing us,
than we forsook our plan for defeating those intentions,
and began to import as formerl)^ Far from being
peevish or captious, we took no publick notice even of
their declaratory law of dominion over us : our can-
dour led us to consider it as a decent expedient of
retreating from the actual exercise of that dominion.

But, alas ! the root of bitterness still remained. The
duty on tea was reserved to furnish occasion to the minis-
try for a new eifort to enslave and to ruin us ; and the
East India Company were chosen, and consented, to be
the detested instruments of ministerial despotism and
cruelty. A cargo of their tea arrived at Boston. By a
low artifice of the govemour, and by the wicked activity
of the tools of government,- it was rendered impossible to
store it up, or to send it back ; as was done at other places.
A number of persons unknown destroyed it.

Let us here make a concession to our enemies : let us
suppose that the transaction deserves all the dark and
hideous colours, in which they have painted it ; let us even

CONVENTION OF rSNNSTLVAMlA. 358

suppose — for our cause admits of an excess of candour-—
that all their exaggerated accounts of it were confined
strictly to the truth : what will follow ? Will it follow,
that every British colony in America, or even the colony
of Massachussetts Bay, or even the town of Boston in that
colony, merits the imputation of being factious and sedi*
tious i LeH the frequent mobs and riots that have happen*
ed in Great Britain upon much more trivial occasions
shame our calumniators into silence. Will it follow, be-
cause the rules of order and regular government were,
in that instance, violated by the offenders, that, for this
reason, the principles of the constitution, and the maxims
of justice, must be violated by their punishment ? Will it
follow, because those who were guilty could not be known,
that, therefore, those who were known not to be guilty-
must suffer ? Will it follow, that even th% guilty should
be condemned without being heard ? — ^That they should
be condemned upon partial testimony, upon the represen-
tations of their avowed and embittered enemies ? Why
were they not tried in courts of justice known to their
constitution, and by juries of their neighbourhood? Their
courts and their juries were not, in the case of Captain
Preston, transported beyond the bounds of justice by their
resentment : why, then, should it be presumed, that, in
the case of those offenders, they would be prevented from
doing justice by their affection ? But the colonists, it
seems, must be stript of their judicial, as well as of their
legislative powers. They must be bound by a legislature,
they must be tried by a jurisdiction, not their own. Their
constitutions must be changed : their liberties must be
abridged : and those^ who shall be most infamously active
in changing their constitutions and abridging their liber-
ties, must, by an express provision, be exempted from
punishment.

t354 S?££GH DELIVERC0 IN THE

I do not exaggerate the matter, sir, when I extend
these observations to all the colonists. The parliament
meant to extend the effects of their proceedings to all
the colonists* The plan, on which their proceedings are
formed, extends to them all. From an incident, of no
very uncommon or atrocious nature, which happened in
one colony, in one town in that colony, and in which only
a few of the inhabitants of that town took a part, an occa-
sion has been taken by those, who probably intended it,
and Vho certainly prepared the way for it, to impose upon
that colony, and to lay a foundation and a precedent for
imposing upon all the rest, a system of statutes, arbitrary,
unconstitutional, oppressive, in every view and in every
degree subversive of the rights, and inconsistent with even
the Qame of freemen.

Were the colonists so blind as not to discern the. con-
sequences of these measures ? Were they so supinely
inactive as to take no steps for guarding agamst them ?
They were not. They ought not to have been so. We
"saw a breach made in those barriers, which our ancestors,
British and American, with so much care, with so much
danger, with so much treasure, and with so much blood,
})ad erected, cemented, and established for the security of
their liberties and — ^with filial piety let us mention it — of
ours : we saw the attack actually begun upon one part:
ought we to have folded our hands in indolence, to have
lulled our eyes in slumbers, till the attack was carried on,
so as to become irresistible, in eveiy part i Sir, I presume
to think not. We were roused ; we were alarmed, as we
had reason to be. But still our measures have been such
as the spirit of liberty and of loyalty directed ; not such
as a spirit of sedition or of disaffection would pursue.
Our counsels have been 4;onducted without rashness uxxf

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 255

■

faction r our I'esolutions have been taken withoitt phrensjr
or fury.

That the sentiments ^of eveiy individual concerning:
that important object, his liberty, might be known and
l*egarded, meetings have been held, and delibeiations
carried on in every particular district. That the senti*
ments of all those individuals might gradually and regu^
larly be collected into a single point, and th^ conduct of
each inspired and directed by the result of the whole
united, county committees — ^provincial conventions—^
continental congress have been appointed, have met and
resolved. By this means, a chain — ^mpre inestimable^
and, while the necessity for it continues, we hope, raor^
indissoluble than one of gold — ^a chain of freedom ha&
, been formed, of which every individual in these icoldiifes^
who is willing to preserve tjie greatest of human blessings^

his liberty, has the pleasure of beholding himself a link.

/

Are these measures, sir, the brats of disloyalty, of
disaffection ? There are miscreants among us— -wasps thki
suck poison fro^ the most salubrious flowers — ^who tell ui
they are. They tell us that' all those assemblies are un-
lawful, and unauthorized by our constitutions ; and that
all their deliberations and resolutions are so many trans*
gressions of the duty of subjects. The utmost msQice
brooding over the utmost baseness, and nothing but ^uch
a hated commixture, must have hatched this calumny.
Do not th6se men know — ^would they have others not to
know—- that ' it was impossible for the inhabitants of the
same province, and for the legislatures of the different
provinces, to communicate their sentiments to one an*
other in the modes appointed for such purposes, by their
v^iflerent constitutions \ Do not they know-^-would thej^

256 BfXZCH bELIVERED INf THE ^

have others not to know — ^that all this was rendered inv
possible by those very persons, who now, or whose
minions now, urge this objection against us ? Do not they
know— would they have others not to know — ^that the
different assemblies, who could be dissolved by the go-
vemours, were, in consequence of ministerial mandates,
dissolved by them, whenever they attempted to turn their
attention to the greatest objects, which, as guardians of
the liberty of their constituents, could be presented to
their view ? The arch enemy of the human race torments
them only for those actions, to which he has tempted, but
to which he has not necessarily obliged them. Those
men refine even upon infernal malice : they accuse, they
thr aten us (superlative impudencp!) for taking those
very steps, which we were laid under the disagreeable
necessity of taking by themselves, or by those in whose
hateful service 'they are enlisted* But let them know,
that our counsels, our deliberations, our resolutions, if not
authorized by the forms, because that was rendered im-
possible by our enemies, are nevertheless authorized by
that which weighs much more in the scale of reason — by
the spirit of our constitutions. Was the convention of
the barons at Running Meade, where the granny of John
was checked, and magna charta was signed, authorized by
the forms of the constitution ? Was the convention par-
liament, that recalled Charles the second, and restored
the monarchy, authorized by the forms of the constitu-
tion F Was the convention of lords and commons, that
placed King William on the throne, and secured the
monarchy and liberty likewise, ajithorized by the forms
of the constitution ? I cannot conceal my emotions of
pleasure, whe;i I observe, that the objections of our ad«
yersaries cannot be urged against us,Jbut in common with
those venerable assemblies, whose proceedings fornied
such an accession to ^ntish Uberty wd British renown.
I

i

COKVEHTIOH OF f ENNSYLVANIA.
The resolutions entered into, and the recommenda-
ttons given, by the continental congress, have stamped,
in the plainest characters, the genuine and enlightened
spirit of liberty upon the conduct observed, and the mea*
sores pur^ued^ in consequence of them. As the invasions
of our rights have become more and more formidably
our ojq^^osltioB to them has increased in firmness and
Yigoor, in a just, and in no more than a just, proportion* '
We IriUiidt import goods from Great Britain or Ireland^
iaa little time we will suspend our exportations ta
fbesa : and, if the same illiberal and destructive system
ollxdicy be sttfl carried on against us, in a little time
more we will not consum^e their manufactures. In that
colony where the-^attacks have been most open, immedi-
ate, and direct, some farther steps have been taken, and
those steps have met with the deserved approbation of
the other {Provinces.

Is this^ scheme of conduct allied to rebellion ^ Can
any symptoms of disloyalty to his majesty, of disincli.
nation to hn illustrious family, or of disregard to his
authority be traced in it? Those, who would blend, and
whose crimes have made it necessary for them to blend|
die tyrannick acts of administration with the lawful mea-
sures of government, and to veil every flagitious prc^ce-
dure of the ministry under the venerable mantle of
majesty, pretend to discover, and employ their emissa^
rifes to publish thejretendcd discovery of such symptoms.
We are not, however, to be imposed' uppn by such shal-
low artifices. We know, that we have not violated the
laws or the constitution ; and that, therefore, we are safe
atf long a»the laws retain their force and the constitution
tUirtgour; and that, whatever our demeanour be, w«

TO&«axr« il

\

25S SPEECH DELIVERED IM rSE

cannot be safe much longer. But another object demamlir
our attention.

We behold — ^sir, with the deepest anguish we behold.
-— «that our opposition has not been as effectual as it has
been constitutional. The hearts of our oppressors have
not relented : our complaints have not been heard : oor
grievances have not been redressed: our rights are
still invaded : and have we no cause to dread^ that tRe
invasions of them will be enforced in a manner, against
^hich all reason and argument, and all opposition of
every peaceful kind, will be vain i Oiir opposition ha»
hitherto increased with our oppression : shall it^ in tlic
most desperate of all contingencies, observe the same
proportion ?

Let us pause, sir, before we give an answer to^
question : the fate of us ; the fate of millions now alive ;
the fate of millions yet unborn depends upon the answers-
Let it be the result of calmness and of intrepidity : let
it be dictated by the principles of lo3ralty, and the prtnct^
pies of liberty. Let it be such, as never, in the worst
events, to give us reason to reproach ourselves, or others
reason to reproach us for having done too much or too
litrfc.

Perhaps the following resolution may be found not
altogether unbefitting our present situation. With the
greatest deference I submit it to the mature' consideratioa
of this assembly.

^* That the act of the; British parliament for altering the
charter and constitution of the colony of Mjassachusaetis
Say, and those *^ for the impartial administrataoo of jui--

C^N^SNTXOM OF PENNSYLVANIA. 259

'tdi^-' in^that colany^ for shutting the port of Boston,
»iand for quartering soldiers on the inhabitants of thet
colonies, are unconstitutional and void; and can confer
no authority upon those who act under colour of them.
I^at the crown cannot, by its prerogative, alter the charr
t^r.or constitution of . that colony : that all attempts to \y^

silter th|i^ ssMMd chfoter or constitution, unless by the
f^uthority of the legislature of that cdoiiy, are naanifest
quotations of the rights of that coloi^y, and ttl^gal : that
aU force employed to tarry such unjust and illegal
attempts into execution is force without authmty : that
U is the right of British subjects to resist such force:'
titot.this right is founded bodi upon- the letter and the
spirit of tfaie British constitutioiu'-

To prove, at this time, that those acts are unconsti*
tutional and void is, I apprehend, altogether unnecessary.
The doctrine has been proved fully, on other occasions^
asd hi^ received the concurring assent of Qritish Ame-
rica. It rests upon plain and indubitable truths. We '
do not send members to the British parliament; we have
parliaments (it is immaterisd.what name they go by) of
our owa.

That a void act can confer no authority upon those,
who proceed under colour of it, is a selfevident propo*
aition.

' JBclbre I proceed to. the other clauses, I think it
useful to recur to some of the fundamental maxims oflihe
British constitution ; upon which, as upon a rock, our
wise ancestors erected that stable fabrick, against which
the gates of hell have not hitherto prevailed* Those
maximar I shall apply fairly, and, I flatter myself, satis«

factorlly to evitice eviery parucolar contained - ki like
reftolutioa.

The government of Britain^ str^ wftfi never ft&
tituy government : our ancestors -were never mco^itde^
ntte enough to trust those ri^ts, which God aadnature-
had given them, umseservedly into die bands efthtar
princes* However di&cuk it maybe; tn^ther slaiea^
to prove aa original contract sabsisting in any -oth^
iianner, and oil any other conditions^ tbaitare noHira^r
and necessarily implied in the vevy idea of the- fort
institution of a state ; it is die easiest thing imaginafale^
since ^the revolutioti' of 1688^ to prove it in our coorii*
tution, and to ascertain some jof tiie material artides, jnf
which it consists. It has been often appealed to : it has
been often broken, at least on oaei part: it has,be€^ often
renewed : it has been often confirmed : it still subsists
ia its full force : ^^ it binds the kmg as much as the
meanest subject*'' ^ The measures of his power^ and the
limits, beyond which he cannot extend it, are circsM^
scribed and regulated by the same authority, and widi
die same precision, as die measuves of the siibjee&'ii
obedience, and the limits, beyond which he is under no
obligation to practise it, are fixed and ascertained.
Libeity is, by. the constitution, of equal stability, of
eifual antiquity, and of equal authority with pn»t»gap
tive. The duties of the king and those of the sabject
are plainly reciprocal : they can be violated on neither
sidC) unlesc^ they be performed en the o(hei>> l%e law

m BtiL Pat Kioc. 123.

b BoL Tracts. 293. The compact between the king and pecf^
Unrntnal, and the parties are mutoally booad. 11 Pari Ddb.4^.
<14. Chester«dd.)

w^e'ieofiimoti'9tandard, by which the ejKce^ies of pre«
Tog^thre as well as the excesses of liberty are to he regu*
la;(ed and Mformed.

. > Of this great' compact between the king and his people,
otie easemiil article ^o be performed on hb part is-^that,'
m those cases where provision is expressly i^ade and
littiitatio&s set by the laWs, his government shall be con*
chieced according to those provisions, &nd restrained
according to those limiti^ions-'-^hat, in those cases, whidi
are not expressly provi'ded for by the la#s, it shall be
eodducted by the best rules of disd-etion, agi*eeably to'
Ae general spirit of the- laws, and subserviently to thet^
ultimate end-^lhe interest and happinesi of his subjects
«-^hat, ^ita tio tase, itshall be conducted contrary to tht
expt'essy or to t^e implied -principles of the constitution.

Thes6 general maxims, which we tnay justly consider
as fundatnentals of our govemmetit, will, by a plain and
obvious application of them to the partsof the resolution
remaining to be proved, demonstrate them to be strictly
agreeable to the laws and constitution.

'• -L , - ■ .•'-■•..

We can be at no loss in resolving, that'the^king cannot,
by his prerogative, alter the charter or constitution of the
c^^nyof M«issachussetts Bay. Upon what principle could
such an exertionofprerogativebejvistified?'Ottthe acts of
parliament ? They are already proved to be void. Oti
the discretionary power which the king has of acting
where the laws are silent ? That power must be subser*
vient to the interest and happiness of those, concerning
whom it operates. But I go farther. Instead of being
supported by law, or the principles of prerogative,
ftuoh an alteration is totally and absolutely repugnant to

^£l^«[ D£X| W£S i)l THE .

hcitlu . It 19 contraiy to express, iaivu * The chacter ^o^
qoDstitutioii we speak of are con^rmf^d byil^jf^ only legis«>
lative power capable of confirming the«|}\aiMl nc^. other
power, but that which can ratify) can destroy. If it is

coi^rary to ex^re^ laif^ the jcoii90i|Mn€e. is .neci^ssfiiyt
that it is cpntr^y tp the principles of prerogative : ibr>
prerogative can operate o^y.wh^ the law -is silent« ;

m'

; In no view.. can this alteraticm "be justifiisHly or soibucjI.
^ excused* : It^ cannot <'be. justified or ex^u^ed by t the.
acts of <pariia]xi4BJit f be^^ause thed:Udiori4;y:4if. pfMrlitMaaen^
d^es not extend to. fA : it cannot; be justified or exposed
iQT^lhe operatioiii of prerogative ; .because this'ia Qone a£
the cases, ill which prexogatiy^e caii operate : it cannot
b^' justified or excused. by the legislative ^utliprity of the
colpny; because that. authority ney^r has-been, 9ndf .1
presume, never will be given for any such purpose.

If I have proceeded hitherto^ a3 I am persuaded I
Have, upon safe and sure- grojund, I can, with great
confidence, ^dv^nce a step farljher, and; say, thstf all
attempts to alter the charter or constitution oC that, colony^
unless by the authority of its own legislature^'are viola-
tions of its rights, and illegal.

' If those attempts are illegal, must uQt a)l, force, em*
ployed to carry them into execution, b^ fo^e^employed
sigainst la.w, apd without authority i The conclusion ie
unavoidable.

Have not British subjects, then, a right to resisi
such force-^force acting without authority--^force em*
ployed contrary to law — ^force employed to destroy
the very existence of. law and of lib^ty ? > They
have, sir, and this right is secured to them both by

comrEirriON iSp.psKNsTLVANiA. 26^

the letter >aBd the spirit of the British constitiitiofl,
by which the measii^esi and the conditions of their*
obedience are appointed. The British liberties) sir, and
the means aiid>tiie right of defending theni, are not th^
grants of princes ;. and of what our princes n^ver granted
they surely caa never deprive us.

I be|^ leave, here, to mention and to dbviate some
|>lausible but iU founded objections, that have been, and
will be, h&ld forth by our adversaries, against the princi-
ftlea of the resolutibn now before us. It will be observed, ,
that those employed for bringing about the proposed al«
i^ratioQ in thex charter. and constkiition of the colony of
JMassacbussettsiBay act by virtue of a commission for
that purpose ftom hie nmjesty: that all resistance of
forces conimijasioned by fats majesty, is resistance of his
^ majesty's- audKH'ityaiid govemosbent, contrar}^ to the duty
of alle^^ance, and treasonable^ .These objections will be
. ^iaplayed in their mo»t specious colours : every artifice
of chicmiery and sophistry will be put in prattice to es^
tablish them : law authorities, perhaps, will be quoted
and tortured to pi^ve thdtn. Those principles of o\ir
constitution, which were diesigned to preserve and to
secure the liberty of the people, and, for the sake of that,
the tranquillity of governipent, will be perverted on this,
as they :hay€ been on many other occasions, from their
txfae intention ; and will be made use of for the contrary
purpo3e of endangering the latter, and destroying the
former. *. Tl^e names of the most exalted virtues, on one
hand, and of the most atrocious crimes, on the other^
will be employed in direct contradiction to the nature of
those virtues, ^d of those crimes : and, in this manner,.
Abse Wjho cannot lopk beyond names, will.be deceived |
9Sid ihoscy whose aim it ia to deceive by names^, will

$64 8F£ICH DEtlVXftKD 19 THV'

have an opportimity of accomplishing it. Bttt, air, tUA
disguise will not impose upon ua. We will look to
things as well as to names : and, by domg so, we shaS
be fuUy satisfied, that all those obfcctions rest upon
mere verbal sophistry, and have not even the remotest
alliance with the princifdes <^ reason or oi law»

In the first place, then, I say, that the persons who
allege, that those, employed to alter the charter and .
constitution of Massadmssetts Bay^ act by virtue of a
commission from his majesty for^thasparpose, spetli
improperly, and contrary to the troth of the- case* I say;^
they act by virtue of no such commission i I say, it is
impossible they can act by virtue of sudi a coiamiMoa*
What is called a commi^on either contains paetictdat
directions for the purpose^mentioned ; or it contains n*
sttch particular directions. In neither ease can Aob^
who act for that purpose, act by virtue of a coamustaom
la one case, what is odled a commission is void ; it has
no legal existence ; it can communicate no auliiority* in
the other case, it extends not to the purpose mendoned.
The latter point is too plain to foe insisted on-^1 pnyve
the former.

** Id rex potest,'* says the law, ** quod de jure potest.^*
The king's power is a power according to law. His com*
vmnds, if the authority of Lord Chief Justice flale"^ may
be depended upon, are under the directive power of die
law ; and consequently invalid, if untawful. Commis-

*9.Rtopt 125,

a 1. Hale. P. C. 43. 41 Vide on this head. 4 Bac. 149, 9. Pari. ^
Bkt 16^ iro, 179, 189. Vent. 63, 169. S. Im. SST^ 338, 94a

mollis, "smys ^my Lord Ceke, ^ ape legal ; »nd are liht die
kitig^s if^rits ; and no^e are lawful, but stH:h as are allowed
by the common 'kw, or -warranted by some act o^f par^
lidment.

jLet us examine any commission expressly directing
those to whpm it is given, to use military force for carry-
ing into execution the alterations proposed to be made in
the charter and constitution of Massachussetts Bay, by the
fbreg'oing maxims and authorities ; and what we have said
concemtng it;will appear obvibus and conclusive^ It is
ii0t warranted by any act of parliament ; because^'as baa
fceen meiltionfed on this, and has been proved on other
occasions, any such act is void. It isndt warranted, and
'I^belieine it-will not be pretended that it is warranted, by
^he commonUaw* -It isnot warranted by the royal prero*
^thre ; because, as has already been filUy shown, it is dia-
metrically opposite to the principles *and' the ends of. prero-
gative. Upon what foundatiQn, then, can it lean and be
Bup^orted? 'Upon none. Like an enchanted castle, it
rliMiy* terrify those, whose eyes are affected by the ma^ttk
'hlBuence of the sorcerers, despotism and slavery : but^o
^^oi^as the charm is dissolved, and the genuine ra}^ t^f
libef^and of the constitution dart in upon* us, the formi-
'1]ii6ile' appearance vanishes, and we discover- that it was
^e baseless fabrick of a vision, that never had anyre^
Existence.

I have dwelt the longer upon this part of the objections
i^l^ged.ags^nst^s by our adversaries ; because this^part is
tlM^.&iibdfttkm' oi^tii theeriuers. We have axMvire«iov^

»

^it;}aiiM)4keyt»Mist ftil«f coarse. ^For ifi^e'force^'actiBg

« 3. Ins. 16jf.
YOL. III. Mm

266 ftFEECH 0£LIVER£D IH THE*

for the purposes we have menlioned, does not act, ami
cannot act^ by virtue of any commission from his majesty,
the consequence is undeniable, that it acts without his
majesty's authority ; that the resistance of it is no resists
ance of his majesty's authority; nor incompatible with
the duties of allegiance. '

And now, sir, let me appeal to the impartial tribunal
of reason and truth — ^let me appeal to every unprejudiced
and judicious observer of the laws of Britain, and of the
constitution of the British government — ^let me appeal, I
say, whether the principles on which I argue, oi^the prin-
ciples on which alone my arguments can be opposed, arc
those which ought to be adhered to and acted upon—
which of them are most consonant to our lawa and lib^-
ties — ^which of them have the strongest, and are likely to
have the most effectual, tendency to.establish and secure
the royal power and dignity.

Arc we deficient in loyalty to his majesty ? Let our
conduct convict, for it will fully convict, the insinuation,
that we are, of falsehood. Our loyalty has always appealed
in the true form of loyalty— in obeying our sovereign
according to law -J let those, who would require it in any
other form, know, that we call the persons who execute
his commands, when contrary to law, disloyal and tiaitora.
Are we enemies to the power of the crown I No, sir :
we are its best friends : this friendship prompts us to

f RebeOioo being an oppositkn, not to persons, but anthority,

whichisfiMmded oDly in tkeconsdtatton and laws of the govenimcBt
those, whoever they be, who bjr Ibrce bieak thtoQ^ andbyferae

justify the violatianQfthem, are tmly and properly rebels. Pofibad*
73a 731. notes.

COWVENTIO» OF ^ENNSTtVANlA. 26f

wish, that the power of the crown may be firmly estab-
Kshed on the most solid basis ; but we know« that
the constitution alone will perpetuate the former, and
securely uphold the latter. Are our principles irreve-
retit to majesty ? They are quite the reverse : we astribe
to it perfection, almost divine. We say, that the king
can do no wrong : we say, that tp do wrong is the pro-
perty, not of power, but of weakness. We feel oppres-
sion ; and will oppose it ; but we know — for our con-
stitution tells us— that oppression can never spring from
the throne. We must, therefore, search elsewhere? for
its source : bur infallible guide will direct us t() it. Our
coiistitution tells us, that all oppression springs from
the ministers of the throne* The attributes of perfec-
tion, ascribed to the king, are, neither by the constitu-
tion, nor in fact, communicable to his ministers. They
may do wrong : they have often done wrong : they have
been often punished for doing wrong.

Here we may discern the true cause of all the im-
pudent clamour and xmsupported accusations of the
ministers and of their minions, that have been raised
and made against the conduct of the Americans* Those
ministers and minions are sensible, that the opposition
is directed, not against his majesty, but against them :
because they have abused his majesty's confidence,
brought discredit upon his government, and derogated
from his justice. They see the publick vengeance col-
lected in dark clouds around them: their consciences
tdll them, diat it should be hurled, like a thunder bolt, at
dieir goilty heads, Appdled with guilt and fear, they
skulk behind the throne. ^ Is it disrespectful to drag
diem into publick view, and make a distinction between
them and his majesty, under whose venerable name

9M Bn^tcn p%Livt»Bn m- x9e

tlMtjF cUHiigfy atkenpt to shdler thw crimen f NotbJnS-
Q(H» m<M:e tS^cimUy contributes to establish his. msijjest^
cm the tkrone, and to secure to hinL the affections ot
his people/ than this distioction. By i^ wc are t^ught^
to consider all the blessings of government a& flowing
from the throne ; and to consider every instance of op^
pression as proceeding, which iq trutjx is often^t. ttie^
case, from the ministers*

If, now, it is true, that all force eo^^oyed for the-
purposes so often mentioned, is force unwarraated by
any act of parliament ;, unsupported by any principle
.of the common law ; unauthorized by any commission^
from the. crown-*»that, instead of being employed for
the support of the constitution and his majesty's govem-
npteat, it must be employed for the support of oppression
and ministerial tyranny — if sU this is true — and I flatter
myself it appears to be |rue-*<an any one hesita^te^ to
say, that to resist such force is .awful : and that both
the letter and the spirit of the British constitution justify*
such resistance ?

Resistance, both by the letier aad the spirit of th^
British constitution, may b^ cajTri^d fe^rther, wheo ip^
eessity requires it, than I h»ve carried it. , Mi^y exAlxH
pies ia the English history might be addu^e4, aPi4
«Kiny authorities of the greatest weight might be brou^bt^
to show, th^t when the king, forgettipg his <:h^ract(^r «b4
his dignity, has stepped forth, and openly avowed aii4
talcen a part in such iniquit^s ^oj»4.u^ s^ km hee» d^
seized ; in such cascs^ indeed, the itistinctioii abovQ
ipnentioned, wisely made 1^ the constitution for the s^
curity of the «rown, tmM imh ho applied ; hecause thi

GONVENTIOK OF PENNSYLVANIA.
crown had unconstitutionally rendered the application of
it impossible. What has been the consequence f The
distinction between him and his ministers has been lost:
but they have not been raised to his situation : he has
sunk to theirs.

/ .

SPEECH

DELIVERED ON 3Gth NOVEMBER, IfST,

IN THE

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA,

AiSl^MBLED TO TAKE INTO CONSIDEBATIOW THE GONSTITV*
tXOH V&AMSP, It THE FEDERAL GONTSMTIOV, FOR THE

XTNITED STATES.

SPEECH IN CONVENTION,

ON 26th NOVEMBER, 17B7.

X H£ S]p8tein proposed, by the late convention, for the
government of the United States, is now before you. Of
tjiat convention I had the honour to be a member. As I
am the only member df that body who have the honour
to be also a member of this, it may be expected that I
should prepare the way for the deliberations of this assem-
bly, by unfolding the difficulties which the late convention
were obliged to encounter ; by pointing out the end which
they proposed to accomplish ; and by tracing the general
principles which they have adopted for the accomplish-
ment of. that end.
To form a good system of government for a single city
or state, Jiov/ever limited as to territory, or inconsiderable
as to numbers, has been thought ^to require the s^trongest
efforts of human genius. With what conscious diffidence,

TOL. III. N^n

i74i SPEECH DELIVERED IN THE

then, must the members of the convention have revolved
in their minds the immense undertaking which was before
them.« Their views could not be confined to a small or
a single community, but were expanded to a great number
of states ; several of which contain an extent of territoiy,
and resources of population, equal to those of some of
the most respectable kingdoms on the other side of the
Atlantkk. Nor were even these the only.. objects to be
comprehended within their deliberations. Numerous
states yet unformed, myriads of the human race, who will
inhabit regions hitherto uncultivated, were to be affected
by the result of their proceedings. If was necessary,
therefore, to form their calculations on a scale commen-
surate to a large portion of the globe.

For my own part, I have been often lost in astonish-
ment at the vastness of the prospect before us. To open
the navigation of a single river was lately thought, in
£urope, an enterprise adequate to imperial glory. But
could the commercial scenes of the Scheldt be compared
with those that, under a goo4 government, will be exhi-
bited on the Hudson, the Delaware, the Potowmack, and
the numerous other rivers, that water and are intended to
enrich the dominions of the United States?

The difficulty of the business was equal to its magni-
'tude. No small sh^e of wisdom and address is requisite
to combine and reconcile the jarring interests, that pre-
vail, or seem to prevail, in a single community. The
United States contain already thirteen governments mu-
tually independent. Those governments present to the
Atlantick a front of fifteen hundred miles in extent.
Their soil, their climates, their productions, their dimen-
sions, their numbers are different. In many instances a

CO^VENflON OF PENNSYLVANIA. 275

difference and^even an opposition subsists among their
interests ; and a difference and even an opposition is ima-
gined to subsist in many more. An apparent interest
produces the same attachment as a real one ; and is often
pursued with no less 'perseverance and vigour. When
all these circumstances are seen and attentively consider-
ed, will any inember of this honourable body be surprised,
that such a diversity of things produced a proportioned
diversity of sentiment? will he be surprised that such a
diversity of sentiment rendered a spirit of mutual for-
bearance and conciliation' indispensably necessary p the
success of the great work ? and will he be surprised that
mutual concessions and sacrifices were the consequences
of mutual forbearance and conciliation ? When the springs
of opposition were so numerous arid strong, and poured
forth their waters in courses so varying, need we be sur-
prised that the stream formed by their conjunction was
impelled in a direction somewhat different from that,
which each of them would have taken separately ?

I have reason to think that a difficulty arose in the
minds of some members of the convention from another
consid^ratioh-^their ideas of the temper and dispo&ition
of t!he people, for whom the constitution is proposed.;
The citizens of the United States, however different in
some other respects, are well known to agree in one
strongly marked feature of their character — a warm and
keen sense of freedom and independence. This sense has
been heightened by the glorious result of their late strug-
gle iigainst all the efforts of one of the most powerful na-
tions of £urope. It was apprehended, I believe, by some,
that a people so high spirited would ill brook the re-
straints of an efficient government. I confess that thi»
consideration did not influence my conduct. I'knew my

^ '

276 SPSSCH DELIVERED IN TBE

constituents to be high spirited ; but I knew them also ta
possess sound sense. ' I .knew that^ in the event, they
would be (>est pleased \7ith that systeoi of government,
which would best promote their freedom and happiness.
J, have often revolved this subject in my mtnd» I have
supposed one of my constituents to ask me, why I gave
such a vote on a particular question? I have always '
thought it w;puld be a satis;factory answer to say— »4»scause
I judged, upon the best consideration I could give^ theit
such a vote was right. I have thought that it would be
but a very poor compliment to my constituents to say,
thatt, in my (Opinion, sucha vote would have been proper^
but that I supposed a contrary one would be mor-e agree*
able to those who sent me to the convention* I could not,
even in idea, expose myself to such a retort as, upon the
last answer, might have been justly made to me* Pray«
sir, what reasons have you for supposing th^ a right
vote would displease your constituents i Is this the proper
return for the high confidefice they have placed in yo^l
If they have given cause for such a surmise, it was by
choosing a representative, who could entertain sach an
opinion of them. I was under no apprehension, that the
good people of this state would behold with displeasure
the brightness of the rays of delegated power^ when it
<Hily proved the superiour splendour of the lunkinary, of
which those rays were only the reflection*

A very important difficulty arose from comparing the
extent of the country to be governed, with the kind of
government which it would be proper to establish in it*
It has been an opinion, countenanced by high dn^^rkyf
^^ that the natural property of small sta^s isy ta be go*
vemed as a repubUck ; of middling ones$ to be subject^
a monarch ; and of Jbrge enoyires, to be swayed by a dcs*

CONVENTION OF PENNSTLVANIA. 2//

potkk prince ; and that the consequence is^ that, in order
to preserve the principles of the established government^
the state must be supported in the extent it has acquired,;
and that the spirit of the state will alter in proportion ad
it extends or contracts its limits."^ This opinion seems
to be supported, rather than contradicted, by th^ history
* of th6 governments in the old world* Here then the diiH«
eulty appeared in full vievf. On one hand, the United
States contain an immense extent of territory, and, ac^
cording to the foregoing opinion, a despotick government
is best adapted to that extent* On the other hand, it was
well known, that, however the citizens of the United
States might, with pleasure, submit to the legitimsLte re*
straints of a republican constitution, they would reject^
with indignation, the fetters of despotism. What them
was to be done i The idea of a confederate republick pre*
dented itself. This kind of constitution has been thought
to have .^^ all the internal advantages of a republican, to*
gether with the externid force of a monarchicalr govern*
ment«"^ Its description id, ^^a convention, by which
several states agree to become members of a larger one^
which they intend to est£dblish« It is a kind of assemblage
of societies, that constitute a new one, capable of increas<>
i^g ^7 means of farther association." ^ The expanding
quality of such a government is peculiarly fitted for the
United States, the greatest part of whose territory is yet
uncultivated.

But while this form of government enabled usi to sur^
mount the difficulty last nptentioned, it conducted us to
aiiothe7| of which I am now to take notice. It left vm

^ Mont Sp. L. b. 8. e. :^0. ^ Id. b, 9. c.l. 1. Paley, 199^302.
<^ Moiit.Sp.L. b. 9.^ 1.

Q7B SPEECH BELIVEREDIN THE

almost without precedent or guide ; and consequently^^
without the benefit of that insfrugtion, which, in many
cases, jjasy be derived from the constitution, and his-
tory, and experience of other nations. Several associa-
tions have frequently been called by the name of confe-
derate states, which have not, in propriety of language^
deserved it. The Swiis cantons are connected only
by alliances. The United Netherlands are indeed an
assemblage of societies ; but this assemblag^e constitutes
no new one; and, therefore, it does not correspond
with the full definition of a confederate republick.
The Germanick body is composed of such dispropor-
tioned and discordant materials^ and its structure is so
intricate and complex, that little useful' knowledge can
be drawn from it. Ancient History discloses, and barely
discloses to our view, sonie confederate republicks —
the Achaean league, the Lycian confederacy, and the
Amphyctionick council. But the facts recorded con-
cerning their constitutions are 60 few and general, and
their histories are so unmarked and defective, that no
satisfactory information can be collected from them
concerning many particular circumstances, from an
accurate discernment and comparison of which alone^
legitimate and practical inferences can be made from
one constitution to another. Besides, tl)e situation and
dimensions of those^ confederacies^ aud the state of soci-
ety, manners, and habits in them, were so different from
those of the United States, that th^ most correct
descriptions could have supplied but a very small fund
of applicable remark. Thus, m ibrming this system,
we were deprived of many advantages, which the his-
tory and experience of other agea ^d other countries:
would, in other cases, Jiave afforded us.

CONVENTIOK OF PENKBYIVANIA.

ard

Permit me to add, in this place, that the science even
of government itself seems yet to be almost in its state
of infancy* Governments, in general, have been the result
of force, of fraud, and of accident. After a period of
six thousand years has elapsed since the creation, the
United States exhibit to the World the first instance, as
far as we can learn, of a nation, unattacked hf external
force, unconyulsed by domestick insurrections, assem-
bling voluntarily, deliberating fully, and decidmg calmly,
concen^ing that system of government, under which
they would wish that they and their posterity should live»
The ancients, so enlightened on other subjects, were
very uninformed with regard to this. They seem scarcely
to have had any idea of any other kinds of governments,
than the three simple forms designated by the epithets,
monarchical, aristocratical, and democraticaL I know
that much and pleasing ingenuity has been exerted, in
modern tifnes, in drawing entertaining parallels between
some of the aiicient constitutions and some of the mixed
governments that have since existed in Europe. But I
much suspect that, on' strict examination, the instances
of resemblance will be found to be few and weak ; to
be suggested by the improvements, which, in subsequent
ages, have been made in government, and not to be
drawn immediately from the ancient. constitutions them-
selves, as they were intended and understood by those
who framed them. To illustrate this, a similar obser-
vation may be made on another subject. Admiring
criticks have fancied, that they have discovered in their
favourite Homer the seeds of all the improvements in
'philosophy, and in the sciences, made since his time.
What induces me to be of this opinion is, that Tacitus^
the profound politician Tacftus, who lived towards the
latter end of those ages which are now denominated

-^ 1

SSO 8I»EEGH DELIVERED IN THft

aacieat, w^ uijdoubtedly had studied the cotistitutions
of all the states and kingdoms known before and in his
time, and who certTainly was qualified, in au uncom*^
mon degree, for understanding the full force and opera-
tion of each of thetn, considers, after sdl he had known
and read^ a mixed government, composed of the diree
aimple forms, as a thing rather to be wished than expect-
ed: and he thinks, that if stich a government could even
Jbe instituted, its duration could not be loiig; i One liking
IB very certain, thkt the doctrine of representation in
government was altogether unknown to the ancients.
Now the knowledge and practice of this doctrine is, in
my opinion, essential to every system, that can possess
jtfae qualities of freedom, wisdom, and energy.

It is worthy of remark, and the remark may, perhaps,
excite some surprise, that representation of the people
is. not, even at this day, the sole principle of any govern-
ment in Europe. , Great Britain boasts, and ^he may
well boast, of the improvement she has made in poli-
ticks, by the admission of representation: for the
improvement is important a^ far as it goes ; but it by
no means goes far enough. Is the executive power of
Great Britain founded on representation? This is not
]>i:etended. Before the revolution, many of the kings
claimed to reign by divine right, and others by heredi-
tary right ; and even at the revolution, nothing farther
waseffected or attempted, than the recognition of certain
parts of an original Contract,^ supposed at some remote
period to have been made between the king and the
people. A contract seems to exclude, rather than to
imply, delegated power. The judges of Great Britain

* l.BLCom.233.

cowvEHnO!r ojr pjennsylvania. 281

^'

are ^appointed by the crown. The judicial authority,
therefore, does not depend upon representation, even
in its most remote degree. Does representation prevail
in the legislative department of the British government?
flven here it does not predominate ; though it may
serve as a check* The legislatui-e consists of three
branches, the king, the lords, and the commons* Of
these, only the latter are supposed by the constitution
to represent the authority of the people. This short
analysis clearly shows, to what a narrow corner of the
British constitution the principle of representation is
confined. I believe it does not extend farther, if so far, .
in any other govemmenx in Europe. For the American
States were reserved the glory and the happiness of
diffusing this vital principle ^hrough all the constituent
parts of government. Representation is the chain of
communication between the people, and those to whom
they hgj^e committed the exercise of the powers of
government. This chain may consist of one or more
links ; but in all cases it should be sufficiently strong and
discei»iible.

To be left without guide or precedent was not the
only difficulty^ in which the convention were involved,
by proposing to their constituents a plan of a confederate
republick. They found themselves embarrassed with
another of peculiar delicacy and importance ; I mean
that of drawing a proper line between the national go-
vernment and the governments of the several states. It
was easy to discover a proper and satisfactory principle
~ on the subject* - Whatever object of government is con-
fined in its, operation and effects within the bounds of a
particular state, should be considered as belonging to
the gpyern^ikentjof that state ; whatever object of govern

VOL. III. o o

2Bt I srCECB DELIVERED IN THE

ment extends in its operation or effects beyond the bounds
of a particular state, should be considered as belonging
to the government of the United States. But though
this principle be sound and satisfactory, its application
to particular cases would be accompanied with much
difficulty ; because, in its application, room must be al-
lowed for great discretionary latitude of construction of
the principle. In order to lessen or remove the diA-
culty arising from discretionary construction on this sub-
ject, an enumeration of particular instances, in which
the application of the principle ought to take place, has
been attempted with much industry and care. It is only
in mathematical science, that a line can be described
with mathematical precision. But I flatter myself that,
upon the strictest investigation, the enumeration will be
found to be safe and unexceptionable ; and accurate too,
in as great a degree as accuracy can be expected in a
subject of this nature. Particulars under this head will
be more properly explained, when we descend to the
minute view of the enumeration which is made in the
proposed constitution.

After all, it will be necessary, that, on a subject so
peculiarly delicate as this, much prudence, much candour,
much moderation, and much liberality should be exer-
eised and displayed, both by the federal government and
by the governments of the several states* It is to be
hoped, that those virtues in government will be exercised
and displayed, when we consider, that the powers of the
federal government and those of the state governments
are drawn from sources equally pure. If a difference
can be discovered between them, it is in favour of the
federal government ; because that government is founded
on a representation of die whole union ; whereas die

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 283

»

govern^ient of any particular state is founded only on the
representation of a part, inconsiderable when compared
^ith the whole. Is it not more reasonable to suppose,
that the counsels of the whole will embrace the interest
of every part, than that the counsels of any part will

embrace the interests of the whole. ^
I intend not, sir, by this description of the dUEcuItres
■with which the convention were surrounded, to mag^^
nify their skill or their merit in surmounting them, or to
insinuate that a^y predicament, in which the convention
stood, should prevent the closest and most cautious scru-
tiny into the performance, which they have eithibited to
their constituents and to the world* My intention i($ of
"iar other and higher aim — to evince by the conflicts and
.difficulties which must arise from the many and powerful
causes which I have enumerated, that it is hopeless and
impracticable to form a constitution, which will, in every
part, be acceptable to every citizen, or even to every
government in the United States ; and that all whicli
can be expected is, to form such a constitution as, upon
the whole, is the best that can possibly be obtained.
Man and perfection ! — a state and perfection ! — an as-
semblage of states and perfection ! Can we reasonably
expect, however ardently we may wish, to behold the
glorious union i

I can well recollect, though I believe I cannot convey
to others, the impression, which, on many occasions,
was made by the difficulties which surrounded and pressed
the convention. The great undertaking, at some times,
seemed to be at a stand ; at other times, its motions
seemed to be retrograde. At the conclusion, however,

28^ ilPEECH D^LIVEllEt> IN THE

of our work, many of the members expressed their
astonishment at the success with which it terminated.

Having enumerated some of the difBculties which the
convention were obliged to encounter in the coarse of
their proceedings, I shall next point out the end which
they proposed to accomplish. Our wants, our talents,
•our affections, our passions, all tell us that we were made
-for a state of society. But a state of society could not
be supported long or happily without some civil restraint.
It is true that, in a state of nature, any one individual
may act uncontrolled by others i but it is equallj^ ti'ue^
that, in such a state, every other ind^vid-ual may act un-
controlled by him. Amidst this universal independence,
the dissensions and animosities between interfering mem?
bers of the society would be numerous and ungovernable*
The consequence would be, that each member, in such
a natural st^te, would enjoy less liberty, and suffer more
interruption, than he would in a regulated society. Hence
the universal introduction of governments of some kind
or other into the social state. The liberty of every mem- .
b^r is increased by th|8 introduction^ for each gains
more by the limitation of the freedom of every other
member, than he loses bv the limitation of his own*
The result is, that civil government is necessary to
the perfection and happiness of man. In forinin^
this government, and carrying it into execution, it is
essential that the interest and authority of the whole
community should be binding on every part of ijU

•

The foregoing principles and conclusions are genersdfy
admitted to be just and sound with regard to the nature
and formation o£ single governments, and the duty of
submission to them. In some cases they will apply,
with much propriety and force, to states already formed*

*

The advantages and neoes^hy ef dbrJ^lrgoYerd&fxieai afnong*
mdmcktal^ in society are not grfeftterlbr 4tro9ger. tli^^
in some situarions and' circumstances,, ^re tbe^iadvftntdge&
Gihd necessity of a fecleral government aihong states. A
natural and a(v(eryimipoptaittt question now presents it.
'^elf. Is siiel^^he'8ituM:ioii«^r^e such the circum^^miceii
of jthe United States? A proper aBfiwettQthUqu.esr
tibn will unfoTW serine very interesting' truths. ,

. •♦.

The United States may 'adopt at^y one of four dilFereDt

systems . They may becto Aie consolidated into oiie govern-

mentv in which the separate existence of the states shaH

be entirely absorbed. They may reject any plan* of union

or association, and act ds separate and unconnected statesv

. They inay fotm two ^r 'more confederacies^ They xavf

ui^ite in. one federal fepublick. Which of these tyftt^mt

'pught to have been proposed by tlie ccwiventioa? — T<J

support Mrith ti^igour^ a single government over the whole

extent of the United States, would demand a system qf

the most unqualified and the niost unremitted despotism*

Such a nuiiiber of separate states, contiguous in situation,

unconnefcted and disunited in government, would be, at

on^ time, the prey of foreign force,iforeign inAueQce, and

foreign intrigue ; at another, the victini of mutual rage,

rancour, and revenge. Neither of these systems found

advocates in the late convention : I presun^ tliey will n#t

find advocates in this. .Would it be proper to diyide the

United States into two or more confederacies? It will

not be unadvisable to take a more minute survey of this

subject. Some aspects, under which it may be viewed,

are far from being, at first &ight, uninviting. Two or more

confederacies would be .'each more comfiact and more

manageable, than a single one extenditig over the same

territory. , By dividing the United Stat^^ into two or

286 gVlECH DKLIV£RXD IN THE

more confederacies, the great oolUsioa of interests^ appa-
rently or really different and contrary, in the whole ext^iat
of their dominion, would be broken, and in a great measore
disappear in the several parts. But these advantages,
which are discovered from c<»rtain points of view, are
greatly overbalanced by in^onveoiences that will appear
on a more accurate examination* . Animosities, and per-
haps wars, would arise from asaigoing the extent, the
limits, and the rights of the different confederacies. The
expenses of governing would be. multiplied by the num-
ber of federal governments. The danger resulting fraoi
foreign influence and mutual dissensions would not, per-
liaps, be less great and alarming in the instance of different
confederacies, than in the instance of different though
more numerous unassociated states. Theae observatiomes,
and many odiers that might be made <m the subject, will
be sufficient to evince, that a division of the United j^tatea
into a number of separate confederacies would- probabljr
be an unsatisfactory and an unsuccessful e^eriment. The
remaining systeih which tibe American States may adopt
is, a union of them un^erone confederate republick. It
will not be necessary to em{doy much time or many ai;gu-
ments to show, that this is the most eligible system that
can be proposed. By adof^ing this system, the vigour
and decision of a wide spreading monarchy may be joined
to the freedom and beneficence of a contracted republick*
The extent of territory, the diversity of climate and soil,
the number, and greatness, and connexion of lakes and
rivers, with which the United States are intersected and
"^ ^ dmost surrounded, all indicate an enlarged govemmeiU

to be fit and advantageous for them. The principles and
dispositions of their citizens indicate, that in this govern*
ment liberty^ shall reign triumphant. Such indeed have
been the general opii^ons and wishes entertained abce

CONT£imoi9 or MMXSTLrAlllA* S87

the era of our independence. If those opinionis <End wishes
are as well founded as they have been general, the late
convention were justified in proposing to their constituents
one confederate republick, as the best system of a national
government for the United States.

In forming this system, it was proper to give tninute
attention to the interest of all the parts \ but there was a
duty of still higher import-^o feel and to show a predo*
minating regardto the superiour interests of the whole.
If this great principle had not prevailed, the plan before
us would never have mftde its appearance. The same,
principle that was so qecessary in forming it, is equally
necessary in our deliberations, whether we should reject
or ratify it.

I make these observations with a design to prove and
illustrate this great and important truth — ^that in our deci-
sions on, the work of the late convention, we should not
limit our views and regards to the state of Pennsylvania.
The aim of the convention was, to form a system of good
and efficient government on the more extensive scale of
the United States. In this, as in every other instance,
the work should be judged with the same spirit with which
it was performed. A principle of duty as well as of can-
dour'demands this.

We have remarked, that civil government is necessary
to the perfection of society : we now remark, that civil
liberty is necessary to the perfectioii of civil government*
Civil liberty is natural liberty itself, devested only of that
part, which, placed in the government, produces more
good and happiness to the community, than if it had re-
mained in the individual. Hence it follows, that civil

S88' . -SPEIKIH B£L¥V|;^£f>>4N THE

liberty, while it reigns ia part of naturj^l liberty, retaini
the free and generous exercise of all the human Acuities,
80 far as it is compatible with the publick welfare.

In considering and developing the l^ature and end of
the system before us, it is necessary to mention another
kind of Uberty, ?i^hich haa i^ot y^t^ as far as I know, re-
ceived a aame. I shall distinguish -it by the appellation
o(federal\ liberty* When a single governments is insti*
tttted, the individuals of which it i^ composed sUrrendco:
to It a part of ^eir natural independence, which theyjb^
fore enjoyed as men. When a confederate republickis
instituted, the communities of wlych it is composed sur--
render to it a part of their political independence, which
they before enjoyed as states. The principles which
directed, in the former case, what part of the natural
liberty of the man ought to be given up, and what part
^ught to be retained, will giv« similar directions in the
latter case* The states should, resign to the national
.government that part, and that j)art only, of their political
liberty, which, placed in that government, will produce
anai)e good to the whole, th^n if it had remained in the
several states* While they resign this part of their poli-
tical liberty, they retain the firee and generous exercise of
4dl their other faculties as states, so far as it is compa-
tible with the welfare of the general and superintending^
tionfederacy. ^

Since states as well as citizens are represented in^c
•constitution before us, and form the objects on which that
constitution is proposed to operate, it was necessary to
notice and define federal as well as civil liberty.

These general refiectitHis bs^xe been made in order to
introduce, with more proprie^ and advantage, a practical

COWVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 289

illustration of the end proposed to be accomplished by the
late convention.

It has been too well known — it has been too severely
felt — that the present confederation is inadequate to the
government and to the exigencies of tl^e United States.
The great struggle for liberty in this country, should it
be unsuccessful, will probably be the last one which she
will have for her. existence and prosperity, in any part of
the globe. And it must be confessed, that this struggle
has, in some of the stages of its progress, been attended
with symptoms that foreboded no fortunate issue. To tjne
iron hand of tyranny, which was lifted up against her, she
manifested, indeed, an intrepid superiority. She broke
in pieces the fetters which were forged for her, and showed
that she was unassailable by force. But she was environed
by dangers of another kind, and springing from a very
different spurce. While she kept her eye steadily fixed
on the efforts of oppression, licentiousness was secredy
undermining the rock on which she stood.

Need I call to your remembrance the contrasted
scenes, of which we have been witnesses? On the glorious
conclusion of our. conflict with Britain, what high expec-
tations were formed concerning us by others ! What high
expectations did w^ form concerning ourselves ! Have
those expectations been realized ? No. What has been
the cause ? Did our citizens lose their perseverance and
magnanimity ? No. Did they become insensible of resent-
ment and indignation at any high handed attempt, that
might have been made to injure or enslave them? No.
What then has been the cause ? The truth is, we dreaded
danger only on one side : this we manfully repelled. But
on another side, danger, not less formidable, but more

VOL. III. p p

990 SPEKCir DELIVERED IN TUZ

insidious, stole in upon us ; and our unsuspicious tempers
were not sufficiently attentive, either to its approach or to
its operations. Those, whom foreign strength could not
overpower, have well nigh become the victims of internal
anarchy.

If we become a little more particular, we shall find that
the foregoing representation is by no means exaggerated.
When w.e had. baffled aH the menaces of foreign power,
we neglected, to establish among ourselves agovernmenti
diat would ensure domestick vigour and stability* What
W«s the consequence f The commencement of peace was
the commencement of every disgrace and distr^^ss, that
could befal a people in a peaceful state. Devoid of na^^
tional power, we could not prohibit the extravagance of
our importations, nor could we derive a revenue from
their excess. . Devoid of national importance, we could
not procure for our exports a tolerable sale at foreign
markets. Devoid of national credit, irte saw our publick
securities melt in the hands of the holdc^rs, like snow be-
fore the sun. Devoid of national dignity, we could nott
in some instances, perform our treaties on our parts; and,
in other instances, we could neither obtain nor compel
the performance of them on the part of others. Devoid
of national energy, we could not carry into,execution Our
own resolutions, decisions, or laws.

Shall I become more particular still? The tedious
detail would disgust me : nor is it t now necessary.
The years of languor are past. We have felt the disho-
nour, with which w6 have been covered : we have seen
Ae destruction with which we have been -threatened.
We have penetrated to the causes of both, and when
we have once discovered them, we have begun to search

f

CONVENTIOK OF PENNSYLVANIA. 291

for the means of removing them. For the confirmation
of these remarks^ I need not appeal to an enumeration of
facts* The proceedings of congress, and of the several
states, are replete with them. They all point out the
weakness and insufficiency of the present confederation
as the cause, and an efficient general government as the
only cure of our political distempers.

Under these impressions, and with these views, was
the late convention appointed ; and under these impres-
sions, and with these views, the late convention met*

We now sec the great end which they proposed to
accomplish* It was to frame, for the consideration of
their constituents, one federal and national constitution
-^a constitution that would produce the advantages of
good, and prevent the inconveniences of bad government
•*-^ constitution, whose beneficence and energy would
pervade the whole union, and bind and embrace the
interests of every part — a constitution that would ensure
peace, freedom, and happiness, to the states and people
of Americsb

•

We are now naturally led to examine the means, by
which they proposed to accomplish this end. This opens
more particularly to our view the important discussion
before us* But previously to our entering upon it, it
will not be improper to state some general and leading
principles of go'^^rnment, which will receive particular
applications in the course of our investigations.

There netessarily exists in every government a power,
from which there is.no appeal ; and which, for that reason,
may be termed supreme, absolute, and uncontrollable*

^^ft SPEECH DELIVERED IH THE

Where does this power reside ? To this qucstioa, writers'
on different governments will give different answers.
Sir William Blackstone will tell you, that in Britain,
the power is lodged in the British parliament; that'
the parliament may alter the form of the government;
and that its power is absolute and without control. The
idea of a constitution, limiting and superintending the
operations of legislative authority, seemfe not to have
been accurately undeqitood in Britain. There are, at
least, no traces of practice, conformable ' to such a prin-
ciple* The British constitution is just \^hat the Briti&h
parliament pleases. When the parliament transferred,
legislative authority to Henry the eighth, the ac^^ans-^
ferring it could not, in the strict acceptation of the tern>,
be called unconstitutional. « ' '

■r

To control the power and conduct of the legislature
by an overruling constitution, was an improvement in >
the science and practice of government reserved to the
American States.

Perhaps some politician, who has not ^ cooaidered,
with sufficient accuracy, our politital systems, would
answer, that, in our govei^iments, the supreme power
was vested in th& constitutions. This opinion approaches
a step nearer to the truth, buf does not reach it. The
truth is, that, in our governments, the supreme, abso-
lute, and uncontrollable power remains in the people.
As our constitutions are superiour t# our legislatures;
so the people are superiour to our constitutions. Indeed
the superiority, in this Jn^ instance, is muchgreater^
for the people possess, over our consdtuUons,, control
in act, 93 well a9 in rights

COKVJENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 295

The consequence is, that the people muy change the
constitutions, Whenever and however they plea«e. This
is a right, i>f which no positive institution can ever
deprive them.

These important truths, sir, are far frbm being merely
speculative : we, at this moment, speak and deliberate
under their immediate and benign infiuence. To the
operation of these truths, we aiB to ascribe the scene,
hitherto unparallelled, which America now exhibits to
the world-— a gentle, a peaceful, a voluntary, and a
deliberate transition from one constitution of govemmeat
to another^ In other parts of the world, the idea of
revolutions in govemn^ent is^ by a mournful and indisso-
luble association, connected with the idea of j^wars, and
all the calamities attendant on wars* But happy experi-
ence teaches us to view such reyolutioiis in a very
diflPerent light-— to consider them oaly as progressive
steps in improving the knowledge of government, and
increasing the happiness of society and mankind.

»
Oft have I viewed with silent pleasure and admiration

the force and prevalence, through the United States, of
this principle^ — ^that the supreme power resides in the
people ; and that they never part with it* It may be
called the panacea in politicks. Therje can be no disorder-
in the community but may here receive *« radical cure.
If the errour be in the legislature, it may be corrected
by the constitution ; if in the constitution, it may be
corrected by the people. There is a remedy, therefore,
for every distemper in government, if the people are
not waiting to themselves. For a people wanting to
themselves, there is no reqtiedy: from their power, as
we bave seen, there ;s no appeal : to their errour, there
s no superiour principle of correction.

9M SPEECH DELIVERED IM TB£

There are three simple species of government — mo-
narchy, where the supreme power is in a single person — -
aristocracy, where the supreme power is in a select asseno*
bly, the members of which either fill up, by election, the
vacancies in their own body, or succeed to their places
in it by inheritance, property, or in respect of some
personal right or qualification— *4i repablick or demo-
cracy, where the people at large retain the i^preme power^
and act either coHectifrly or by representation*

Each of these species of government has its advan-
tages and disadvantages. ^ "

The advantages of a monarchy are, strength, de^
spatch, secreoyy unity of counsel. Its disadvantages
are, tyranny, expense, ignorance of the situation and
wants of the people, insecurity, unnecessary wars, evils
attending elections or successions.

The advantages of aristocracy are, wisdom, arisiag
from experiesce and education. Its. disadvantages are,
dissensions among themselves, oppression to the lower
orders.

The advantages of democracy are, liberty, equal,
cautious, and salutary laws, publick spirit, frugality^
peace, opportunities of exciting and producing abilities
of the best citizens. Its disadvantages are, dissensions,
the delay and disclosure of publick counsels, the imbeci-
lity of publick measures retarded by the necessity of a
numerous consent.

A government may be composed of two or more of
the simple forms abovementioned. * Soch is th^ BritisK

CONVENTION OF PENNSTLTANIA*

^95

government. It would be ^n improper government for
the United States ; because it is inadequate to such an .
extent of territory ; and because it is suited to an esta-
blishment of different orders of men. A more minute
comparison between some parts of the British constitu-
tion, and some part* of the plan before us, may, perhaps,
iind a proper place in a subsequent period of our business.

What is the nature and kind of that government,
which has been proposed for the United States, by the
late convention ? ^n its principle, it is purely demo-
craticsd : but that principle is applied in different forms)
in order to obtain the advantages, and exclude the incon-
veniences of the simple modes of government.

If we take an extended and accurate view of ft, we
shall find this streams of power running in different direc-
tions, in different dimensions, and at different heights,
watering, adorning, and fertilizing the fields and mea..
dows, through which their courses are led ; but if we
trace them, we shall discover, that they fill originally
flow from one abundant fountain. In this constitution,
all authority is derived from the people.

Fit occasions will hereafter offer for particular remarks
on the different parts of the plan* I have now to ask
pardon of the; house for detaining them so long.

V:
ORATION

OSLIVERED ON THE FOURTH OF JULY 1788^

AT THE

PROCESSION FORMED AT PHILADELPHIA .

TO CELEBRATE THE

ADOPTION OF THE CONSTITUTION

OF THE UNITED STATES.

YOL« III* q.q
t

ORATION

DELIVERED AT THE

PROCESSION IN PHILADELPHIA.

HY FRIENDS AND FELLOW CITIZENS,

\ OUR candid and generous indulgence I may well
bespeak, for many reasons. I shall mention but one*
While I express it, I feel it in all its^orce. My abilities
are unequal— -abilities far superiour to mine would be
unequal — ^to the occasion on which I have the honour
of being called to address you.

A people free and enlightened, establishing and ratify-
ing a system of goven\ment, which they have previously
considerod, examined, and approved ! This is the spec«
tacle, which we are assembled to celebrate ; and it is the
most dignified one that has yet appeared on our globe*
Numerous and splendid have been the triumphs of con-
querors. But from what causes have they originated ?
-^Of what consequences have they been productive?

iOO ORATION DELIVEWED AT THE

i

They have generally begun in ambition : they have ge-
nerally ended in tyranny. But nothing tyrannical can
partipipate of dignity : and to freedom's eye, Sesostris
himself appears contemptible, even when he treads on
the necks of kings.

The senators of Rome, seated on their curule chairs,
and surrounded with all their official lustre, were an ob-
ject much more respectable : and we view, without dis-
pleasure, the admiration of those untutored savages, who
considered them as so many gods upon earth. But who
were those senators ? They were only a partof a society :
they were vested only with inferiour powers.

What is the object exhibited to our contemplation ?
A whole people exercising its first and greatest power-
performing an act of sovereignty, original and unlimited !

The scene before us is unexampled as well as magni-
ficent^ The greatest part of governments have been the
deformed ofFsprin|^ of force and fear. With these we
deign not comparison. But there have been others which
have formed bold pretensions to higher regard. You
have heard of Sparta, of Athens, and of Rome ; you
have heard of their admired constitutions, and of their
high-prized, freedom. In fancied right of these, they
conceived themselves to be elevated above the rest of the
human race, whom they marked with the dejoading tide
of barbarians. But did they, in all their pomp and pride
of liberty, ever furnish^ to the astonished world, an ex-
hibition similar to that whi^h we now contemplate? Were
their constitutions framed by those, who were appointed
-for that purpose, by the people ? After they were framed)
- were they submitted to the consideration of the people i

PHOtESSXOK IK VHtl^AllEXPRlA* dOI

Haril th« people an opportunity of expressing their send*
ments concerning them ? Were they to stand or fall by
the people's approving or rejecting vote ? To all these
questions, attentive iuid impartial history obliges us to
answer in the negative. The people were either unfit to
be trusted, or their lawgivers were too ambitious to trust
them.

The far-famed establishment of Lycurgus was intro-
duced by deception and fraud. Under the specious pre*,
tence of consulting the oracle concerning his laws, he
prevailed on 'the Spartans to make a tetnporary eaqjeri*
ment of them during his absence, and to swear that they
would suiFer no alteration of them till his return. Taking
a disingenuous advantage of their scrupulous regard for
Aeir oaths, he prevented his return by a voluntary death,
and, in this manner, endeavoured to secure a proud
immortality to his system.

Even Solon — the mild and moderating Solon-*— far
from considering himself as employed only to propose
such regulations as he should think best calculated for
promoting the happiness of the commonwealth, made
and promulgated his laws with all the- haughty airs of
absolute power. On more occasions than one, we find
him boasting, with much selfcom^acency, of his extreme
forbearance and condescension, because be did not estab-
lish a despotism in his own favour, and becau^ he did
not reduce his equals to the humiliating condition of his
slaves. , s

Did Numa submit his iti^itntioii% to the good temt
and free investigatioti cf R^mef They were received m
precious communications from the goddess Egeria, with
whose presence and regard he was supremely favoured i

302 0R4TI0N DELIVERED AT THE

and they were imposed on the easy faith of the citiaKeni,
as the dictates of an inspiration that was divine.

Such, my fellow citizens, was the origin of the most
splendid establishments that have been hitherto known ;
and such were the arts, to which they owed their intro-
duction and success.

What a flattering contrast arises from a retrospect of
the scenes which we now commemorate? Delegates
were appointed to deliberate and propose. They met
and performed their delegated trust. The result of their
deliberations was laid before the people. It was discussed
and scrutinized in the fullest, freest, and severest man*
ner — by speaking, by writing, and by printing — by indi-
viduals and by publick bodies — ^by its friends and by its
enemies. What was the issue ? Most favourable and
Viost glorious to the system. In state after state, at
time after time, it was ratified — ^in some states unani-
mously— -on the whole, by a large and very respectable
tnajority.

r

It would be improper now to examine its qualities*
A decent respect for those who have accepted it, will lead
us to presume that it is worthy of their acceptance. The
deliberate ratifications, which have taken place, at once
recommend the system, and the people by whom it has
been ratified.

But why, methinks I hear some one say — ^why is so
much exultation displayed in celebrating this event I We
are prepsffed to give the reasons of our joy. We rejoice,
because, under this constitution, we hope to see just

PROCESSION IN PHILADELPHIA. SOS

government, and to enjoy the blessings that walk in it«
train.

Let us begin with Peace — ^the mild and modest har-
binger of felicity ! How seldom does the amiable wan-
derer choose, for her permanent residence, the habitations
of men ! In their systems, she sees too many arrange-
ments, ciYil and ecclesiastical^ inconsistent with the
calmness and benignity of her temper. In the old world,
how many millions of men do we behold, unprofitable to
society, burthensome to industry, the props of establish-
ments that deserve not to be sup^Dorted, the causes of
distrust in the times of peace, and the instruments of
destruction in the times of war? Why are they not em-
ployed in cultivating useful arts, and in forwarding pub-
lick improvements ? Let us indulge the pleasing expecta*
tion, that such will be the operation of government in
the United States. Why may we not hope, that, disen-
tangled from the intrigues and jealousies of European
politicks, and unmolested with the alarm and* solicitude to
wjhich these intrigues and jealousies give birth, our coun-
sels will be directed to the encouragement, and our
strength will be exerted in the cultivation, of all the art*
of peace ?

Of these, the first is agriculture. This is true in all
countries ; in the United States, its truth is of peculiar
importance. The subsistence of man, the materials of
manufactures, the articles of commerce — all spring ori-
ginally from the soil. On agriculture, therefore, the
wealth of nations is founded. Whether we consult the
observations that reason will suggest, or attend to the
information that history will give, we shall, in each case,
be satisfied of the influence of government, good or bad.

304» ORATIOW P£LIV£RED AT THE

upon the state of agriculture* In a government, whose
maxims are those of oppression, property is insecure.
It is given, it is taken away, by caprice. Where there
is no security for property, there is no encouragement for
industry. Without industry, the richer the soil, the
more it abounds with weeds. The evidence of history
warrants the truth of these general remarks. Attend to
Greece ; and compare her agriculture in ancient.and in
modem times. Then, smiling harvests bore ^ testimony
to the bountiful boons of liberty. Now, the ver}*^ earth
languishes under oppression. View the Campania of
Rome. How melancholy the prospect ! Whichever way
you turn your afflicted eyes, scenes of desolation crowd
hefore them. Waste and barrenness appear around you
in all their hideous forms. What is the reason ? With
double tyranny the land is cursed. Open the classick
page : you trace, in chaste description, the beautiful
reverse of every thing you have seen. Whence proceeds
the difference \ When that description was made, the
force of liberty pervaded the soil.

But is agriculture the only art, which feels the influ*.
ence of government? Over manufactures and commerce
its power is equally prevalent. There the same causes
operate — and tt^^re they produce the same effects. The
industrious village, the busy city, the crowded port — all
these are the gifts of liberty ; and without a good govern-
ment, liberty cannot exist.

These are advantages, but these are not all the advan-
tages, that result from a system of good government. —
Agriculture, manufactures, and commerce will ensure to
us plenty,, convenience, and elegance'. But is there not
something still waating to finish the man \ Are internal

IrinMS and ftccomplishtnents less estimable^ otlt^ ftttmcl-
ing than external arts and ornaments ? Is the operation of
government less powerful upon the former than upon the
lattet- f By no me&tts* Upon this as upoh a pi-eceding
tt^ick, l-eusoh litid history will concur ih their infbrttiatioii
arid advice. In k sfefehe hiitid, the fecientes sitid the viih*
teres love to d^treil. But tan the mind of h than b^ siprehe^
when the property, liberty, subsistence of hittifeelf, ftftd <rf
those for whom he feeU tnott; than h^ feels fbt hii^s^lf^
depend on a tyrant's nod. If the dispirited subject bi
expression can^ with difficulty^ exett his enfeebled fMuU
ties, ^ far as to provide, on the ince^ant defflatidb Of
nature, fdod just enough to lengthen out his 1ri*etehed[
existence, can it be expected that, in such a state, lii^ will
experience those fine and vigorous movements of the soul,
without the full and free exercise of which, stiiftce and
virtue will never flourish f L6ok around you to the nations
that now exist. View, in historick retrospect, the natit>n3
that have heretofore existed. The collected result will
be, an entire tbuviction of these all-intetestihg truths-^
where tyranny reigns, there is the eountly of ignorance
and vicc'-^where good government prevails, there is the
country of science and virtue* iJnder a good govern*
ment, therefore, we ihust look for the acconiplished tnan«

. But shall we confine our views tv€u here ? While wt
wish to be accomplished men at)d citizens, shall we wish
to be nothing mote ? While We perforin our duty, and
promote out happiness in this Worid, shall we bestow no
regards upon the ne^tt ? l)oes no connection subsist be«
tween the tWJ? Ftoifi this connelion floWs the ihoaft
important of all the blessings of good government. But
here let us pau^e-'^nassisted Reason caA guide us no
farther — she directs^ usi to that heaveii-desciJAd^d sci*

VOL. III. R r

306 ORATION DJCLIVERED AT THE

ence, by which life and immortality have been brought
to light.

May we not now say, that we have reason for our joy?
But while we cherish the delightful *e motion, let us re-
member those things, which are requisite to give it per-
manence and stability. Shall we lie supine, and look in
listless langour, for those blessings and enjoyments, to
which' exertion is inseparably attached ? If we would be
happy, we must be active. The constitutioa and our
manners must mutually support ^nd be supported. Even
on this festivity, it will not be disagreeable or incongruous
to review the virtues and manners that both justify and
adorn it.

Fru^Ii^ and tempbrance first attract our attention.
These simple but powerful virtues are the sole founda-
tion, on which a good government can rest with security.
They were the virtues, which nursed and educated infant
Rome, and prepared her forall her greatness. But in the
giddy hour of her prosperity, she spumed from her the
obscure, instruments, by which it was procured ; and, in
their place, substituted luxury and dissipation. The con*
sequence was such as might have been expected. She
preserved, for some time, a gay and flourishing appear-
ance ; but the internal health and soundness of her con-
stitution were gone. ""At last, she fell a victim to the
poisonous draughts, which were administered by her per-
fidious favourites. The fate of Rome, both in her rising
and in her falling state, will be the fate of every other
nation that shall follow both parts of her example.

Industry appears next among the virtues of a good
citizen. Idleness is the nurse of villains. The industrious

'\

PROCESSION IN PHILADELPHIA. 307

alone constitute a nation's strength. I will not expatiate
on this fruitful subject. Let one animating reflection
suffice. In a well c(»istituted commonwealth, the industry
of every citizen extends beyond himself. A common in-
terest pervades the society. Each gains from all, and all
gain from each. It has often been observed, that the
sciences flourish all together: the remark applies equally
to the arts. v

Your patrioiick feelings attest the truth of what I say,
when, among the virtues necessary to merit and preserve
the advantages of a good government, I number a warm
and uniform attachment to liberty, and to the constitution*
The enemies of liberty are artful and insidious. A coun-
terfeit steals her dress, imitates her manner, forges her
signature, assumes her name. But the real name of the
deceiver is licentiousness. Such is her efirontery, that
she will charge liberty to her face with imposture : and
she will, with shameless front, insist that herself alone is
the genuine character, and that herself alone is entitled to
the respect, which the genuine character deserves. With
the giddy and undiscerning, on whom a deeper impres-
sion is made by dauntless impudence than by modest
merit, her pretensions are often successful. She receives
the honours of liberty, and liberty herself is treated as a
traitor and a usurper. Generally, however, this bold
impostor acts only a secondary part. Though she alone
appear upon the stage, her motions are regulated by dart
ambition, who sits concealed behind the curtain, and
who knows that despotism, his other favourite, can always
follow the success of licentiousness. Against these ene-
mies of liberty, who act in concert, though they appear
on opposite sides/ the patriot citizen will keep a watchful
guard. >

909 Q&ATION D£LIV£££D AT TKK

«

A good constitution is the greatest blessing, which a
society can enjoy. Need I infer^ that it is the duty of
^veiy citizen to use his best and. most unre nutting
ende^^vours for preserving it pure, healthful, and vigorous i
For the accomplishment of this great purposes, the exer«
tions of no one citizen are unimportant* Let no ane*
therefore, harbour, for a moment, the mean idea, that
he is and can be of no value to his country : let the
contrary manly impression animate his soul. £very one
can, at many times, perform, to the state, useftU services,
and he, who stieadiiy pursues the road of patriotism, has
the most inviting prospect of being able, at some tim.es,
to perform eminent ones. Allow me to direct your atten-;
tion, in a very particular nianner, to a momentous part,
which, by this constitution, every citizen will frequently
be called to act. All those in places of power and trust
will be elected either immediately by the people, or in
suph a manner that their appointm,ent will depend ulti<
mately on such immediate election. All the derivative
movements of government must spring from the original
movement of the people at large. If to this they give a
sufficient force and a just direction, sdl the others witt
be governed by its controlling power. To speak with*
out a metaphor, if the pse^ple, at their elections^ tal^
care to choose none but representatives th^ti ^e^ wi^^
and good, their representa;tives will take carei„ in thek^
turn^ to choose or appoint none but such as are wise aiMt
good also. The remark a|>plies to every sujcceeding
election and appointment. Thus the characters, pn^r
for publick officers will be diffused fron^ the. immediatie;
eLectiona of thi^ P^opl^ over the repi^qtest p4^&of adinjU
nistration*. Q£ mhitt immense coxt^equence is it^, thefv
ti>at this, prijEoiuy duty, should be faitl^fuUy and sUl&dlf
discharged ! On the faithful and skilful ditchai^ge qC ^

PHOCEaftlON IN PHILABXLPHIA. 309

the'publidi: happiness or iafeiicity, under this and every
other constitution, must, in a very great measure, de«
pend. For, believe me, no government, even the beat,
can be happily administered ^by ignorant or vicious
men* You will forgive me, I am sure, for endeavouring
to knpress upon your minds, in the strongest manner,
the importance of this great duty. It is the first con*
coction in politicks ; and if an errour is committed here,
k can never be corrected in any subsequent process ; the
certsun consequence must be disease. Let no one sayt.
that he is but a single citizeu ; and that his ticket will
he but one in the box. That one ticket may turn the
election. In battle, every soldier should consider the
publick safety as depending on his single arm : at aa
election, every citizen should consider the publick hap«
piness as depending on his single vote.

A progressive state is necesaaiy to the happiness and
perfection of man. Whatever attainments are already
reached, attainments still higher should be pursued. Let
UA, therefore, strive with noble emulation. Let us sup-
pose we have done nothing, while any thing yet remaina
to be done. Let us, with fervent zeal^ press forward,
and make unceasing advances in every thing that can
support, improve, refine, or embellish society. To enter
into particulars under each of these heads, and to dilate
them according to their importance, would be improper
at this time. A few remarks on the last of them will
be congenial with the eixtertainments of this auspicious
day*

If we givQ the slightest attention, to nature, we shall
discover,, that with utility, she is curious to blend onuu
sMiiW Can we inotalif. a battex pattern? Publick

310 ORATION DELIVERED AT THE

exhibitions have been the favourite amusements of
some of the wisest and most accomplished nations.
Greece, in her most shining era, considered her games
as far from being the least respectable among her publick
establishments. The shows of the circus evince that^
on this subject, the sentiments of Greece were fortiHed
by those of Rome.

Publick processions may be so planned and executed
as to join both the properties of nature's rule. They
may instruct and improve, while^ they entertain and
please. They may point out the elegance or usefulness
of the sciences and the arts. They may preserve the
memory, and engrave the importance of great political
events. They may represent, with peculiar felicity and
force, the operation and effects of great political truths*
The picturesque and splendid decorations around me
furnish the most beautiful and most brilliant proof^ that
these remarks are far from being imaginary.

The commencement of our government has been
eminently gloiious : let our progress in every excellence
be proportionably great. It will — ^it must be so. What
an enrapturing prospect opens on the United States !
Placid husbandry walks in front, attended by the venera-
ble plough. Lowing herds adorn our vallies : bleating
flocks spread over our hills : verdant meadows, enamelled
pastures, yellow harvests, bending orchards, rise in rapid
succefssion from east to west. Plenty, with her copious
horn, sits easy smiling, and, in conscious complacency,
enjoys and presides over the scenes. Commerce next
advances in all her splendid and embellished forms. The
rivers, and lakes, and seas, are crowded with ships.
Their shores are covered with cities. The cities are

PROCESSION IV PHILADELPHIA. 311

filled with inhabitants. The arts, decked with elegance,
yet with simplicity, appear in beautiful variety, and well
adjusted arrangement. Around them are diffused, in
rich abundance, the necessaries, the decencies, and the
ornaments of life. With heartfelt contentment, indus-
try beholds his honest labours flourishing and secure.
Peace walks serene and unalarmed over all the unmo-
lested regions — while liberty, virtue, and religion go
hand in hand, harmoniously, protecting, enlivening, and
exalting all ! Happy country ! May thy happiness be
perpetual!

r

'
'

.(

SPEECH

ON CHOOSING THE MEMBERS OF THE SENATB

BY ELECTORS ;

DELIVERED, ON 31st DECEMBER. 17^89,

IN THE CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA,

» •■ ^ •

ASSEMBLED FOR THE PURPOSE OF REVIEWING, ALTERING, AND
AMENDING THE CONSTITUTION OF THE ^TATS. '

VOIit XII»

• •

r»'

SPEECH IN CONVENTION, *

ON 3l8t DECEMBER, 1789.

W ELL assured I am, that the subject now before the
convention must appear to hopourable members, for

* Thfe debate, in the course of which tbis speech was delivered,
related to the follpwbg provisions in the draft of a canstitation
reported to the convention bja, committee appointed for th^
purpose.

^ The citizens of the city of Philadelphia and of the severdl
counties in this state, qualified to elect. representatives, when assem-
bled for that purpose, shall, if occasion require, at the same time^
at the same places, and in the same manner, for every representa*
tive, elect two persons resident within their citf or county respec*
tively, asekctors of the senator or s^ators qf their district

- « * ■

• << ; Within days after their election, the electors of eacb
district shall meet ^together at some convenient place withm tl^

r district, and dect the senator or senators for their- district

^^ .No Sector shall be chosen a senator.

816 SPEECH DELIVERED IN THE

i^hom I have much regard, under an aspect very different
from that, in which it makes its approaches to me.. In-
deed it has not always appeared to myself in precisely
the same light, in which I now view it. One reason
may bej that I have not formerly been accustomed to
contemplate it from the point of sight, at which I now
stand, and from which it is my duty, enjoined by the
strongest ties, to make the most attentive and accurate
observations. I have considered it as a subject of specu-
lative discussion. I have taken of it such a slight and
general survey, as one perspn would take of the estate
of another, without any expectation that it, or one simi-
lar to it, would ever become his own. On such a vague
and superficial examination, I have not studied or inves-
tigated its inconveniences or defects.

The very respectable senate of Maryland, chosen by
electors, furnishes with letters of recommendation every
institution, to which it bears even a distant resemblance.
The moderation, the firmness, the wisdom, a^id the
consistency, which have character! zed the proceedings of
that body, have been of signal benefit to the state, of
whose government it forms a part ; and have be^n the
theme of just applause in her sister states. It is by no
means surprising, that a favourable opinion has been
entertained concerning the principles and manner of its
constitution.

'< No parson «hail \fe <cho8en an ^edor, who shaJl not have resi-
ded In the district three years next before his election. And no
peisoB shalf -be chcsen an elector, who is a member of the l^sla-
t«re, or who holds aoy^flEice in the appclntaaent of the execolnrft
departmeoL" JSd,

. CONVEWTIOW or PENNSYLVANIA. 31 f>

But now that the question relative to those poinUi
comes before us, in the discharge of our high trust, we
must devest ourselves of ever}'^ prepossession, which
we may have hitherto indulged; and must scrutinize
the subject closely, strictly, deeply, and minutely. It ia
incumbent upon us to weigh well, 1« Whether the quali-
ticjs, that so deservedly appreciate the senate of Mary-
land, may not be secured to a senate, formed and
organized upon very different and more eligible princi-
ples. 2. Whether the principles, upon which that
.senate has been formed and organized, are applicable
to the plan laid before ihe convention*

It is admitted, on one side, that the electors should
he chosen by the same persons, by whom it is contended,
4^n the other side, that the senators should be chosen.
The only question, then, is, whether an intermediate
grade of persons, called electors, should be introduced
between the senators and the people.

I beg leave to state to the house the light, in which this
subject has appeared to mre, on an examination which I
may venture to style atteivtivie ; and to make some remarks^
naturally resulting, in my opinion, from the views I have
taken of it on different sides.

When I am called upon to appoint other persons to
make laws for me^ I do it because such an appointment
is of absolute necessity ; for the citizens of Pennsylvania
can neither assemble nor deliberate together in one place.
When I reflect, that the laws which are to be made may
affect my own life, ttiy own liberty, my own propert}%
and the lires, liberties, properties, and prospects of others
IHeewise, who are dea^rest to mie,! cdnsider the trust, whick

> %

S18 BPE£CR DELIVEKEB IN THE

I place in those for whom I vote to be legislators, as the
greatest that one man can, in the course of the business
of life, repose in another. I know none, indeed, that
can be greater, except that, with which the members of
this convention are now honoured ; and which happens
not but once, and ofteiji not once, in the succeiisive revp-
lutions of numerous cenluriesL But I console myself
that the same trust, which is comoiitted by me, is also
committed by others, who are as deeply interested in its
exercise as I am. I console myself fiutiier, that tho9c»
^o whom this trust is committed, are the imme^liate choice
of myself, and of those others equally interested with
nyselfl

But, by the, plan before you, I am bow called upon to
•delegate this trust in a manner, and to transfer it to a
distance, which I have never experienced before— I am
called upon, not /to appoint legislators of my own choicet
but to impower others to appoint whomscTcver they shaS
think proper, to be legislators over me, and over those
nearest to me in the different relations of life—- 1 am
called upon to do this, pot only for myself, but for thou-
sands of my constituents, who have confided to me their
interests and rights in thisi convention. — I am called upon
to do this for my constituents, and f*^ myself, for the
avowed purpose of introducing a choice, diiferent from
that which they or I would make. I say different f be*
cause, if the people and the electors would choose the
same senators', there cannot he even a shadow of pretence
for acting by the nugatory intervention of electors. I
am called upon to do this, not only for the purpose of
introducing, a choice of senators different from that which
the people would make ; but for the additional purpose
of introducing a new -state of things and relations hithexto

J

CONVEHTION OF PENNSYLVANIA, S19

unknown between the people and their legislators. Oii
the pHnciples of representation, as hitherto understood
and practised, there was a trust, and one of the most
intimate and important kind, betweeij the people and
their representatives, apd a responsibility of the latter to
the former. On the plan reported, that trust and that
responsibility will certainly be weakened : it is doubtful
whether they will not be wholly destroyed. Can a trust
subsist without some mutual agreement or consent ? Can
responsibility, resulting from an election, operate in behalf
of those who do not choose ? Suppose one of the citizens,
who chose an elector, who chose a senator, to expostulate
with that senator concerningsome part of his senatorial con-
duct ; might not the senator retort upon hini — Sir, I know
not you in this business : I was not chosen a senator by
you : I was chosen by > To them I am ready to ac*

count for what I have done. You chose them my electors :
if any thing is amiss, you will please to look to them for
satisfaction. For, give me leave to tell you, that I know
not you nor the other people of your district in my c6n#
duct as a senator: neither you nor they chose me. The
constitution, sir, supposes that neither they nor you would
have chosen me, if you had been indulged with a choice ;
for the constitution supposes an election made by electors
to be very different indeed from that which would be
made by the people. — ^What answer could be made to
this?

But if this must be styled a trust, it is certainly one
of a new and of a very extraordinary nature. It may
subsist not only without the will or knowledge of those
:£rom whom it originates ; but, on the principles of this
plan, it may subsist against their will declared in the most
publick an4 explicit manner. Suppose a senator to behave

890 SPEECH DELIVE&BD IN TKE

altogether to the dissatisfaction of s^ district, fo^ which he
is appointed : suppose the people unanimously incliaed
to remove him at the next election. Can they do it ?
No. Suppose them to give the most unequivocal instruct
tions ti> the electors for this ptirpose: the electors may
choose him, the instructions notwithstanding: and the
senator may hrave them and tell them that he wiU leg^late
for them, and make them feel all the effects of his legis-
lative power, in spite of their unavailing ef)Fbns to the
contrary.

Sir, I will consider well— -I will ponder long — before
I consent that legislators be introduced i^ a shs^ so
very questionable. I am placed in a new situation* Per*
mit me to view it ag^in. I am caUed upon to traaafer
a right—the right of immediate representation in the le-
gislature— a right which I have hitherto retained un-
alienated — a right which has never, heretofore, been trans-
ferred by the citizens of Pennsylvania. Certainly^ air,
this new situation requires th^t I should make a solema
paus&— 4ook around me, and reflect what my constituents
and I have been^ and what we lure likely to be«

Many hoiaourable members of this convention are, I
presume, in the same predicament with myself; both as
it respects their constituents, and as it respects them-
selves. On every account, it is proper to weigh this
subject well.

Those who advocate the plan of elecfeots must do

so, either to avoid inconveniences which cannot be

. avoided^ or to obtain advantages which camiotbe obtains

caiy in an election by the people themidvesw We aecy

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA, 321

/

'^erefore, naturally led to institute a comparisontbetween
the two modes of election y and to estimate and balance
tiie qualities and consequences of each.

The subject is of higband extensive importance in
the theory and practice of government ; and well deserves
a full, a patient, and a candid investigation*

The works of human invention are progressive ; and
frequently are not completed, till after a slow and
lengthened series of gradual improvements, remotely
distant from one another both in place and in time. To
the theory and practice of government this observation
is applicable with peculiar justness and peculiar force. In
this science, few opportunities have been given to the
human mind of indulging itself in easy and unrestrained
investigation : still fewer opportunities have offered of
verifying and correcting investigation by experiment. An
age — ?L succession of ages elapses, before a system of
jurisprudence rises from its first rude beginnings. When
we have made a little progress, and look forward, a few
eminences In prospect are fondly supposed the greatest
elevation we shall be obliged to ascend. But these,
oncp gained, disclose, behind them, new and superiour
degrees of excellence yet unattained. In beginning and
continuing the pursuit of those arduous paths, through
which this science leads us, the tracts, which we explore,
point to others, which yet remain to be explored*

If the discoveries in government are difficult and bIow$
how much more arduous must it be to attain, in practice,
the advantage of those discoveries, after they have been
made ! Of some governments, the foundation has been
laid in necessity ; of others, in fraud j of others, la
VOL. in. T t

322 SPEECH DELIVERED IN THE

force ; of how few, in deliberate and discerning choice I
If, in their commencement, they have been so unpropi-
tious to the principles of freedom, and to the means of
happiness ; shall we wonder that, in their progress, they
have been equally unfavourable to advances in virtue
and excellence?

Let us ransack the records of history :< in all our
researches, how few fair instances shall we be able to
find, in which a government has been formed, whose
end has been the happiness of those for whom it was
designed ? how few fair instances shall we be able to
find, in which such a government has been acl ministered
with a steady direction towards that^nd ?

To these considerations, we must add others^ which
show still further the numerous and strong obstacles,
that lie in the way of improvement in jurisprudence.
Government founded on improper prmciples, and direct-
ed to improper objects, has a powerful and pernicious
bias both upon those who rule, and those who are ruled.
Its bias upon the first will occasion no surprise : its bias
upon the second, however surprising, is not, perhaps,
less efficacious, whether we consider their sentiments or
their conduct. Thus the principles of despotism become
the principles of a whole nation, blinded and degraded
by its destructive influence. Power, splendour, influence,
prejudice, fashion^ habit, pride, and meanness, are
all arranged to countenance ^nd support those principles.

When we revolve, when we compare, when we com-
bine the remarks we have been now making ; when we
take a slight glance of others that might hie ofifered;
we shall be at no lostf to accoil^t for the slow and small

CONVENtS[ON OF PENNSYLVANIA. 323

progress, that, after a long lapse of ages, has been made
in the science and practice of government.

This progress has been peculiarly slow and sm^U in
the discovery and improvement of the interesting doc-
trines and rules of election, and representation. If
government, with regard to other subjects, may be said)
as with propriety it has been said, to be still in its infancy; ,
we may well consider it, with regard to this subject, as
only in its childhood. And yet this is the subject, which
must form the basis of every government, that is, at
once, efficient, respectable, and free. The pyramid of
government— and a republican government may well
receive' that beautiful and solid form — should be raised
to a dignified altitude: but its foundations must, of
consequence, be broad, and strong, and deep. The
authority, the interests, and the affections of the people
at large are the only basis, on which a superstructure,
proposed to be at once durable and magnificent^ can be
rationally erected.

Representation is the chain of communication between
the people, and those to whonl they have committed the
exercise of the powers of government. If the materials^
which form this chain, are sound and strong ; I shall not
be very anxious about the degree to which they arc
polished. But, in order to impart the true republican
lustre to freemen, I know Ho means more efficacious,
than to invite and admit them to the rights of suffrage,
and to enhance, as much as possible, the value of that
right*

I well know how shamefully this right, all-important
as it is, has beeu neglected— -I well know iiow often we

324 « 8PE£Cir DBLIVERKD IN THE

have seen the election ground, thinly frequented, or
almost deserted, bear mournful testimony^ to the indo-
lence or to the indifference of the electors, I well know
by what frivolous causes they have sometimes been
induced to forego the enjoyment of the noblest rig^
of men. But we will indulge the fond conjecture, that
thid supineness has been owing neither to defect nor
degeneracy in the minds and principles of our citizens,
nor to ignorance or disregard x>f the exalted rank, to
which, as citizens of a free commonwealth, they are
entitled. It has been occasioned, we flatter ourselves,
by the narrow point of view, in which the right of elec-
tion, before the revolution, was considered ^ and by
the few objects, to which the exercise of it was directed*
Before that > event, the doctrine and the exercise of
authority by representation was confined in Pennsylvania,
a& in England, to oue bratich of (»ne of the great powers,
into which we have seen government divided : and over
even that branch a double negative was held suspended
by two powers, neither of them professing, to derive
Itheir authority from the people. Our surprise will be
diminished, and our reprehension will be softened, by"
reflecting, that,, in this dependent situation, the ardour
of citizenship was probably damped as well as confined*
Habits, once formed* and become familiar, are not soon
OF easily laid aside. Oiir customs do not always or
immediately vary in proportion to the variation of their
causes. Indifference to elections, once less important,
has continued, though their importance has^ been* ama-
zingly increased- But this, we hope,, will, not be the
case long. The magnitude of the right will, we trusty
secure, in future,, the merited attention to the exercise
ofit.

CONVENTION OF PSNN8YXVANIA. 321^

What is the right of suffrage, which we now dis*play,
to be viewed, admired, and enjoyed by our constituents i
Is it to go to an obscure tavern in an obscure comerof an
ebscure district, and to vote, amidst the fumes of spiritous
liquors, fqr a justice of the peace ? There, indeed, no lesw
son would probably be learned, but that of low vice ; no
example would probably be showh^ but that of illiberal
gunning. Is it even to choose the members of one part of
a legislature, the patriotick counsels and e£R>rts of which
part are liable, at every moment, to be controlled and
&uatpated by the negatives of other pawers, independent
of the authority, and indifferent, perhaps unfriendly, to
the interests of the people ? ^Here, indeed, there might
be room for lessons of frigid caution, and timid prudence.^ '
It might not be thought advis&le to elect a representative
of bold, undissembled, and inflexible virtue : he might be
obnpxious to his superiours in the other line ; and, instead
of averting, might provoke the exercise of their overruling
power. ,

■ '

Of much higher import— -of much more improving >
efficacy, is that right, which is now the object of our con«
templation. It is a right tQ choose, in large and respect-
able assemUies, all the legislative, and many of the exe-
cutive officers of the government; it is a right to choose
those,, who shall be ijivested with the authority and wit^>
the confidence of the people, and who/ may employ that
authority and that confidenee for the noblest interests of
the commonwealth^ without the apprehension of disap-
pointment or cimtroL

This, surely, must have a powerful tendency to open^^
to enlighten, to enlarge, and to exalt the mind. I cannot
aufficiently express my own ideas of the dignity and value

\

326 8PSECH DELXVXRID IN TRB

«

of tfaU right* In real m^jestyf an independent ancT un«
biassed elector stands superiour to princes, addressed by^
the proudest titles, attended by the most magnificent reti-
nues, and decorated with the most splendid regalia. His
sovereignty is original : theirs is only derivative.

The benign influence flowing from the possession and
exercise of this right deserves to be fully and clearly
pointed out. The man who enjoys the right of suffrage
on the extensive scale which we have marked, wiU natu-
rally turn h^s attention to the contemplation of publick
men and publick measures. The inquiries he wiU make,
the information he will receive, and his own reflections on
both will afford a beneficial and amusing employment to
his mind. I am far from insinuating that every citizea
should be an enthusiast in politicks, or that the interests
of himself, his family, and those who depend on him for
theiir comfortable situation in life, should be absorbed in
Quixote speculations about the management or the refor*
mation of the state. But there is surely a golden mean in
things ; and there cam be no real incompatibili^ between
the discharge of one's publick and that of his private duty.
Let private industry receive the wannest encouragement ;
for it is the basis of publick lia|ipniess* But must the bow
of honest industry be always^bent i At no moment shall a
Utde relaxation be allowed i That relaxation, if property
directed, may prove to be instructive as well as agreeable*
It may consist in reading a newspaper, or in conversing
with a fellow citizen. May not the new^xiper convey
some interesting intelligence, or contain some usefiA
essay ? For all newspapers are not dedicated to the demon
of slander* May not the conversation take a ^ileasing and
am improving^ turn ? Many hours, I believe, areevtFy
^y|i«re sprat in talUng idMiM the naiiapeflwt eoi^^

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. S27

of the day or m the neighbourhood ; and, perhaps, the
frailti'es or the involuntary imperfections oJF a neighbour
form too often one of the sweet but poisonous ingredients
of the discourse. Would it be ahy great detriment to
society or to individuals, if other characters, and with
different views, were brought upon the carpet ?

At every election, a number of important appointments,
must be made. To do this, is, indeed, the business of a
day. But it ought to be the business of much more than
a day to be prepared for doing it well. When a citizen
elects to oflSce— give me leave to repeat it— he performs
an act of the first political consequence. He should be
employed, on every convenient occasion, in making
researches after proper persons for filling the different
departments of power; in discussing, with his n^igh*
bours and fellow citizens, the qualities that should be
possessed by those who fill the several offices ; and in
acquiring information, with the spirit of manly candour,
concerning the manners, and history, and characters of
those, who are likely to be candidates for the publick
choice. A habit of conversing and reflecting on these
subjects, and of governing his actions by the result of
his deliberations, will fonh, inthe mind of the citizen^
a uniform, a strong, and a lively sensibility to the inte»
rests of his country. The same causes wiH produce a
warm and an enlightened attachment to those, who are
best flfcted and best disposed to support and advance those
interests.

By these means, and in this manner, pure and genu-
ine patriotism— that kind, which consists in liberal inv^*
tigation and disinterested conduct*-48 produced, cherish*
ed, and strengthened in the mind: by these means, and in

SM ISiTEECH DELIVERED IN TR

this maimer, the warm and generous emotion ^lows
and is reflected from breast to breast.

Investigations of this nature would be useful -and
improving not to their authors only : they would be so
to their objects likewise. The love of honest and well*
earned fame is deeply rooted in honest and susceptible
minds'! Can there be a stronger incentive to the energy
of this passion, than the' hope of becoming the object of
wellfounded and distinguishing applause I Can there be
a more complete gratification of this passion, than the
satisfaction of knowing that this applause is given — ^that
it is* given upon the most honourable principles, and
acquired by the most honouratde pursuits? To souls
truly ingenuous^ indiscriminate praise, misplaced {»aise^
flattering praise, interested praise have^ no bewitching
charms. But when publi^^k approbation is the result of
publick discernment, it must be highly [leasing to those
who give, and to those who receive it.

Let us now review a little the steps we have trod:
let .{is reconsider the ground we have passed over^
and the observations we have made. Have I painted the
rights of election in colours too flattering ?' — Have I
placed their importance in a light too strong ?— Have I
described their influence in language, or in sentiments,
that have been exaggerated i I presufaie that I have
not.

If, then, the remarks [which I have made, and the
deductions which I have drawn, will bear — and, I trust
they will bear — ^the test of strict and sober scrutiny;
what is the result necessarily flowing from the whole i
It is undeniably this^-chat the rights of suffirage^ properly

r

\

> CONVEKTIOH of PEHNSYLVAKIA, St9

understood, properly vakied, properly cultivated^ and,
properly exercised, is a rich, mine of intelligence and
patriotisn^x^hat it is an abundant source • of the most
rational, the most improving, and the most endearing
connexion among the citizens— and that it is a mosftpow*
erful, and, at the same time, a most pleasing bond of
union b^ween the citizens^ tod those whom they neled
fot the different offices ami departme];its of govotiK*
ment*

If these things art sof why ^outd this rights *0
valuable and importamt, the cAu^e- of so many btessings^
moral, ^intellectual, and political, be weakened— ^-wby
should it be interrupted by the interjection of electors ?
Reasoils irr&sjstibly cogent will certainly be urged and
Supported, before such a measure will be adopted by
the members of this convention.'

* . ' ' • .

It has been already mentioned, that those who advo*
cate the plan of electors must do so, either to avoid
itieonventences which cannot be avoided, of to obtain
advantages which cantiot be obtained, in an election by
the people.. What incflmveniences will be avoided ?

WiM the mcietin^ of the people be less frequetoty less
troabksorire, or Kss expensive in choosing cjlectors tktttt
in choosing senators ? In respect bpth of freqiiiency and
of trouble f hey will be prccisefy the same; In respect
of expense, the mconvenience wiH be itidreased by
clrdosing electors ; ' fcr it will be but reasonable dvat an
allowance be made to them for thetr time, their trouble^
and thw" services, ht these respects, therefore, no
inconvenience will be avoided, but an inconvenience
will be incurred, by choosing electors.

VOL. III. u u

S30 8PX.£CH DELIVERED IN THE

Vy^ill inconveniences respecting the objects ijf choi^^
attend elections by the people, and be avoided in elec-
tions by electors ? What are those inconveniences ?

Will the choice of the people be less valid than the
choice of electors? That will not be pretended, since
the electors themselves will derive a// their authoritjf
firpm the people.

Will the choice of the people be. less honourable
than the choice of electors i In republican governments,
the people are the fountain of honour as well as of
power.

s

Will the choice of the people be less disinterested
than the choice of electors f iQterest will probably be
consulted in both choices : but, in the £rst, the interests
of the individuals, added together, will form precisely
the aggregate interest of the whole ; whereas, in the
last, the interests of the electors, added together, will
^rm but a small part of the interests of the whole;
and that small part may be altogether unattached, nay,
it n(iay be altbgeth^r repugnant, to the Remainder.

Will the choice of the people be less in^artial than the
choice of elect6rs ? The answer to this question is deter-
ipined by the ansfwer to the last* An impartial choice,
in the case before us, is a choice that embraces the
interests of the whole ; a partial choice is that which
embraces the interests, only of a fart. A choice by
the people^ is most likely to suit the first description :
a choice by electors is tiiost likely to suit the last*

J

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA.
.Will the choice of the people be made with lesa
solici^de and fewer precautions for their common advan*
tage than the choice^ of electors ? If every individual
among the people attends to his own advantage ; the
common advantage, which is the joipt result of the
whole, will be provided for. But every elector may
be very attentive to his own advantage ; and yet the
common advantage may be left wholly unprovided
for.

' - .

Will the choice of the people be less wise than the
cl^oice of electors? We have already seen that it will
not be less valid, nor less honourable, nor less disin-
terested, nor less impartial, nor less for the common
advantage ; having seen all this, we may pronounce the
presumption to be violent, that it will not be less wise.
Upon this presumption we shall leave the matter for the
present.

Permit me to observe, in the mean time, that incon*
veniences unavoidable in elections by the people, but alto-
gether .forelg;n from elections by electors, ought to b«
shown clearly and/ undeniably on the other side.

The next inquiry is-^what advantages can be obtained
in elections^ by electors, .that ^e unattainable in elections
by the people.

This side of the inquiry is, in my view, very much
anticipated by the discussion of the other side: indeed.
it appears to me wholly unproductive. To those who.
thiak and speak in favour of electors, it may disclose
sources of s^undant fertility : to their investigations and
discoveries I cheerfully leave it ; observing, under thit

332 ftfEECH l>ELrV£R£D IN THE.

he^kdf that the adv^^ntages to be gained, as well as the
inconveniencef to b^ avoided^ ought to be shown deiuiy
and undeniably on the other side. For if, upon the
whole, the balance shall hang in equilibrio ; the pre4ilec-«
don, for the strong reason already mentioned, will cer<*
tainly be in favour of a choice h(y the people. themselyes,
and not by electors. , . v

This predilection ought to operate for another reason,
which has not yet been mentioned. It will be cheerfully
admitted, that all power 4s ori|^inally in the people : the
consequence, unavoidable, is, that power ought to be
exercised personally by the people, when this can he done
without inconyenience and without disadvantage^ .I«
some of the small republicks of Greece, and in the first
ages of the commonwealth of I^ome, the people votedt
eVen on the |>assing of Istws, in their aggregate. ci^acity*
Among the ancient Germans this was also done upon great
occasions. ^^ De minoribus consultant principe^,'^ says
Tacitus, in his masterly account of Germany, ^^ de ma-
joribus omnes." And from the practices of the ancient
Germans, some of the finest maxims of modern govern*^
ment are drawn. If, therefore, no inconvenience wiB
be avoided, and no advantage will be obtained by the
plan of eUctors-^and this is the ease, so far as we have
yet seeiw-^that plan should nqt be substituted in the place
of a choice of senators by the people themselves.

Were we to satisfy ourselves with thb partial and
incomplete consideration of the subject i I app^head
we should be extremely unwilUiig to transfer the choke
of senators from the people to electors. Bui if we pur*
sue the examination a lijtde further^ we shaU find stiB
stronger raasoos tor this ithictaocc : lor we Aatt lad.

I beH^ve, that, by such bl transfer, instead of avoidii^
iiiconvenience:ai and bbtaining advantages, we shall sacri*
fice advantages for the acquisition of inconveniences*

The poAtical connei^on between the people and those
whom they distinguish by elective offices, and .the reci-
procal sensations and engagements resulting ft-om that
connexion, I consider as most interesting in their nature^-
atid niost rhomentous in their consequences. This con-
nexion should tie as intimate as possible : if possible, it
should be indissoluble. Confidence-^mutual and endear-
ing tOnfidetice — between those who impart power and
those to whom power is imparted, is the brightest gem
in the diadem of a republick. Let us seduloiisly avoid
every dang^of its being broken or lost.

Will there be thie same generous emotions of confidence
in the body of citizetiis towards the senators ? — Will there
be the ^ame warm effusions of gratitude in the senator
towards the body of the citizens, if the cold breath
of electors i^ suffered -to blow between them? Can the
senator say to the people — ^you are my constituents j for
you chbse me ? Ckn the people say to the senator — ^you
are our trustee, for you are the object of our choice ^
'Will not these relations, equally delightful and attractive
on both '*ides, fee greatly weattened* — will not their in-
fluence be greatly diminished, by the interpositfon of
electors ?

But let us contemplate this subject in a still more se-

/ rions and ittiportant poitit of view/ The great desidem^

tilm. in pt^iticks is, to form a govemmenSt, that will, at

ftie satti^ time, des^frve the seemingly opposite epMiets

/—efficient and fi^e. I am sanguine enough to think that:

334 SPEECH DELtVERED IV THE

this can be done. But, I think, it can be .done pnly hj
forming a popular government* To render government
efficient, powers must be given libenUIy : to tender it,
free as well as efficient, those powers must be drawn from
the people, as directly and as immediately al possible.
Every degree of removal is attended with a corrcfspondr
ing degree of danger. I know that removals, or at least
one removal, is, in many instances, necessary in the ez<-
ecutive and judicial departments. But is this a Feas6n
for multiplying or lengthening them without necessity I
Is it a reason for introducing them. into the legislative
department, the most powerful, and, if ill constituted^
the most dangerous^ of all ? No« Bat it is a strong rea*
son forexcluding them wherever they can be excluded;
and for shortenibg them as much as possible wherever
they necessarily take place. Corruption and putridity
are more to be dreaded from the length, than from the
strength, of the streams of authority^ ^

On this great subject, { ofi^r my sentiments, as it is
my duty to do, without reserve* I think — rthat all the
officers in the legislative department should be the infime-
diate choice of the people — that only one removal should
take place in the officers of the eiecutif e and judicial
departments — and that, in this l^st department, a very
important share of {he business should be transacted by
the people themselves.

These are, in a few words, the great outlines of the
government, which I would choose. I fondly flatter my-
self that all the parts of it might be safely9 compactly, and.
iKrmly knit together ; and that the qualities of goodness^;
wisdom, and energy might animate, sustain, and pervade
the whole.

•.■*v

CONVENTION Of PEKKSTLVANI4. 335

Aad lor, what should we sacrifice all the valaable con-
ncpuons, principles, and advantages,., which have been
xnentibned i For electors ? — Who are those electors to
be? Logicians sometimes describe the subjects of th^ir
profoimd lucubratioos negatively as well as positiv^ely-
Let us borrow a hint from them^ on this occasion. Who
are those electors not to be ? 1. They will be such as
the people will think ^not the fittest to represent them in
the most numerous branch of the legislature ; for no re-
presentatives can be electors. 2« They will be such as
the people will think not th|e fittest to be senators } for no
elector can be a seijator ; and therefore the people will not
chpose those to be elfsctors, whom they would wish to see
in the senate. 3. They will be such as the govemour has
thought^pot the fittest for any qffice^in the executive or
judicial departments;' for persons holding appointments
in any of those departments cannot be electors. I was
going to say, in the fourth place, that they will Be such as
will be thought not the fittest for any office under the exe-
cutive department in future^. But herC) I find, I am mis-
taken. For they may hold offices the moment after their
election bf senators ; and I will not assert it to be impos-
sible, that they will acquire^ their qualifications for those
offices by theirj^cpnducjt in that election.

Thus far we have pursued their negative descriptions.
The task of expatiating on their positive qualities^ I beg
leave, for the present, to assign to those who must be sup-
posed to understand them much better. For they must
certainly know well the purify ing virtues of those political
al^mbicks, through which they wish to see our senators
sublimated and refined.

Among the numerous good qualities of the electors,
we hope, one will be— that they will be unsusceptible of

J336 ffTEZCn ZUELtV£&£D IK THK

intrigue or cabal among themselves. A sreeond) we liope,
win be^^that they will be inaccessible- to the impressioiis
of intrigue and cabal from others; A third, we hope, wtD
be— ^hat as the people, by choosing them electors, have
intimated decemly that they think ikemnot theiittest per*
sons. to be senators, the^ will cultivate the same decent
reserve with regard to their brothers, their consins, their
other relations, their friends, their dependents^ and their
patrons*

< /

SPEECH

DELIVERED, ON 19th JANUARY, 1790,

IN THE CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA,

ASSEMBLED FOR THE PURPOSE OF REVIEWING) ALTERING, AND
AMENDING THE CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE;

ON A MOTION THAT

M NO MEMBER OF CONGRESS FROM THIS STATE, NOR ANY
PERSON HOLDING OR EXERCISING ANY OFFICE OF TRUST
OR PROFIT UNDER THE UNITED STATES, SHALL, AT THE
SAME TIME, HOLD AND EXERCISE ANT OFFICE WHATEVER
IN THIS 6TATE."

VOL. III.

X X

. \

/

SPEECH IN CONVENTION,

ON 19* JANUARY, 1790.

JLT has frequently been my lot to plead the cause of
others; sometimes of individuals, sometimes of puUitk
bodies,* oftener than once of the commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania. It is now my lot to be under the bard neces-
sity of pleading my o\yn» Tlutt commonwealth, whose
cause I have pleaded — and pleaded Successfully — ^that
commonwealth, in whose'service I have laboured faithfully
— I defy even my enemies to refute the assertion— rthough,
to myself, very unprofitably — ^that commonwealth, which
I have served in times of safety and in times of dan-
ger, dirough good report, ahd through bad report — ^that
commonwealth, sir, if the present motion shall be adopt,
ed, is about to strip me of the most valuable rights
of citizenship. And this is to be done without any
offence or cause of forfeiture on my part;. unless to
have been highly honoured by the president and senate
of the United States is, in her consideration,now become

840 8#EECH DELIVERED IN Tl^E

a crime, and to have accepted of the high honour is, in
her eye, become a pause of forfeiture*

Well, then, may I say, that I am now to plead my own
cause. All the citizen is routed within me ; and I dis-
semble neither my feelings nor my interest : for both my
interest and my feelings as a citizen of Pennsylvania
assure me, in a manner which I cannot mistake, but
which, at the same time, I cannot express, that this
cause is personally my own. As such, therefore, I shall
openly and directly consider and plead it. I am afraid,
however, that I shall acquit myself but awkwardly : the
task is new and unfamiliar : the path before me liiave
not hitherto trod. But a ray of consolation darts upon
me. Though the cause is personally, it is n6t exclusive^
ly my own. I plead the cause likewise of some of the
most distinguished citizens of Pennsylvania :^ I plead
what will soon be the cause of others of her citizens
equally distinguished i I plead what will continue, in
future ages, to be the cause of her best, and these who
ought to be her most favoured sons : I plead, sir, the
cause of Pennsylvania herself: for Pennsylvania herself
will certainly suffer, if she shall be deprived of the ser-
vices of such of her citizens, as shall be best qualified
for serving her. To deprive her of the services of such
citizens is the evident tendency, the evident object, and
the evident principle of the present motion : for such
will be the citizens selected for the offices of the United
States.

But here, sir, I must beg not to be misunderstood.
When I speak of the principle and object and tendency of
the motion, I mean not to apply those e2q>ression8 to the
principles, the views, or the wishes of its honourable

GONYXNTION OF PENWSTtVAKlA. 341

mover. Between the first and the last there mav be, and,
I think, there probably is, a very considerable difference.
In suggesting this, I pay not, to his {H-inciples, a com-
pliment at the expense of his understanding ; for to the
most enlightened mitid it is no disparagement to suppose,
that, at first sight, it does not perceive all the distant
bearings and relations and dependencies, which a motion,
. especially one so extensive as this, may, on investigation,
be found to have*

The motion is in thes'e words : ^^ No member of con*
gress from this state, nor any person holding or exercising
any office of trust or profit under the United States^
ahai|||at )the same time, hold and exercise any office
whatever in this state." It embraces all this broad and
comprehensive position— «every person, wha is employed,
or trusted by the United States, ought, for that reason,
^ tobe incapacitated from ''bejng employed or trusted by
^ the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, one of those states
who compose the uniot|. This position, your adoptipn
of the motion will establish in its fullest force and extent.
It will becon^c a part^ not merely of the law, but of the
constitution of the land; and will be a binding and
perpetual rule for the future conduct of this common-
wealth. This, sir, and nothing short' of this, is the
true and necessary import of the question before you.

It is not, that /some offices under the United States
may, in point of propriety, or in point of policy, in the
nature of their exercise, or in the place where they are
exercised, be inconsistent with some offices under
Pennsylvania. This, I will readily admit, may be the
case under those different governments. It has been

• K

admitted td be the case in nn Inttance already agreed ts
without opposition — ^I meaa that of the goveroour. This
may often be the case with regard lx> different ofices even
tttider the ftame govemraeiit. Of this there i^e many
eicam^s in the system before you. They have eBcouii*
tetad ao disapprobation from me or any^otber member*

Again ! tbe position, in the motion before yon:, is nt^
that it would be inconsistent or impr<^r for the same
person to hold, in any case, more offices than one* No,
sir s this motion may be adopted, and yet one person may
hjave twenty, different offices accnmulated upon bim niw
der this very constitution. For the position is not, ^ that
HO person, holding any one office, shall, at the^ipBe
tinfte, bold any other offi<ce, under diis state :'' but the
position is, ^ that every person, holding an office unjLer
the United States, should be excluded from every office
whatsoever in this state.'' For this reason, sir, all th^
numerous observations, which we heard an Saturday,
from the honourable mover, concerning the profuse and
improvident donations of offices, which the people, in a
fit of fondness, might heap on the head of a popular
favourite,' however they might suit otSier purposes, were
evidently beside the purpose of the motion. Tlie motion^
though adopted, will not prevent, nor is k calculated to
prevent, such thou^tiess and injudicious accumulations.

•

I have always flattered myself^ /^at the constitution
of iAk United States would be a bond of union, and net
A principle of inveterate alienage, far less of hostility^
between the Several states ; certainly and more particular-
ly, between each of them and the United States. ^^ A
more perfect union^* is decMred to be one end of liiat

COMTKNTIOK OT PKlfNSTLVAKIA. 24$

constitution. That constitutioir, I beliave, was intended
to be the centre of attraction for that ^^ more perfect
union." Shall we convert that constitution, as far as it
can depend on Pennsylvania-^fortunately for the union,
we can convert it no farther-— into a principle of repul«
sion? If that is the design of this committee; if that
is an object, for the accompUsfament of which our con*
stituents sent us here; the motion before you is well fitted
for fulfilling that design ; it is well fitted for accomplish*
)ng that object. Under the operation of this motion, if
the govemment of the United States shall hereafter dis^i*
(Ingttifth a citizen of Pennsylvania with an ^^ office of
profit or trust ;" that government roust become, however
reluctantly, the repulsive agent in destroying the better
half of bis right of citizenship $ and, consequendy, of
dimiiiishing, by the better half, his political connexion
frith this commonwealth*

This, sir, is no inflated ot exaggerated representation
of the matter : the account is strictly and severely true«
The right of citizenship consists in these two things ;
1 « A rlfht to elect. % A right to be elected into office.
Of the two, the last is certainly not the least valuable
or important. Of the last I shall be deprived by
youk* adoption of the motion before you* I call for
the principles and reasons of deprivation* I demand^
tir**^for I have a right to demand--from the justice of
this committee, that those principles and reasons be
elearly shown and incontestably proved, before the sen**
tenc^ of deprivation be passed against nie. I think I
heard, on Saturday, an opinion mentioned as being de-
eidedly formed. I trust that the expression was used
inadtenentfy : I trust ^at the honourable members of

r

344 SPEECH DELIVERED IV THE

this- committee will hear, and weigh, and consider, be*
fore they decide.

r

Believe me, sir, the principle, more than any foreseen
consequence, of disfranchisement wounds and alarms me.
We are told in history, that a person, Whose inclination
had never led him beyond the gates of Rome, sickened
and died, when Augustus, in a wanton trick of bis abso-
lute power, confined him within those very limits, beyond
which he had never previously wished to go. 'Tis one
thing, sir, to be without an office : 'tis a very different
thing to be disqualified from holding an office, and- to
wander about like, a person attainted and cut off from the
community. The first is often the effect of choke : the
last never. is; it is the result of dire necessity. The
idea of disqualification is a most mortifying idea, when
applied by one to himself: it is a most insulting idea^
when applied to him by others. And can you think, sir,
that I would wish to become or continue the coogtant
mark of mortification or insult? No, sir; I can, at least,
comfort myself, that I will not be reduced to this situation*
The motion of the honourable gentleman is not armed —
fortunately itcannot be armed— ^with the sting of the edict
of Augustus: it may prompt me to go ; but it cannot
compel me to stay. I can cross the Delaware. In New
Jersey, I shall be received as a citizen— a full citizen—
of the state ; and, at the same time, may hold a dignified
and important office under the United States. What I
say concfpming New Jersey, I may say concerning New
Hampshire, Massachussetts, Coimecticiit, New York^
Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina^
and Georgia. For none of those states, so far as I know
or have been informed, view honourable employments
nnder the national government through the inverted spe-

/

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 34r5

culum of the motion, which presents them as causes of
disqualification and disfranchisement. Nay, sir^ I believe
I can go to Rhode Island, and be received there as more
than a half citizen, if I choose it.; for I have not hc^ard,
that that stsite, antifederal as it is, has passed an act of
incapacity against the officers of the United States.

But we are told, that the commonwealth of Virginia
has observed a different conduct ; and has exhibited an
example, which we are now solicited to imitate* I ^rish^
sir, to know if this favourite example forms a part of the
constitution of Virginia. If h does not — and I presume
it does not — I wish to see the law that has produced.it :
I wish ^o examine that law : I wish to know th^ reason
of that law : I wish to know the time vv^heny.and the occa-
sion on which, that law was made : I wish to know. the
temper and tho. national principles of the legislature,
which mad^ that law. I have been informed, how cor-
recdy I will not undertake to vouch) that an antifederal
leader in Virginia, foiled by the convention of that com-
monwealth in his opposition to the national government^
introduced into the legislature, and succeeded in fixing
some stigma, as far as that legislature could fix a stigma^
upojgi the federal characters of that state. Perhaps, sir,
my information is correct ; and this law may be the very
thing. Perhaps, sir, it may have been the production of
the convulsive throes of an antifederal fit. If so-^-^and I
think the conjecture a probable one— ^so soon as the fit
shall be over — and, I hope, it will be over so6n, if it is
not over already— ^Virginia will remove its effects by con*
siderately repealing the law, which it had precipitately

>

occasioned.

VOL. III. YV

346 tPtSCH DKLIVERED IN THE

But shall we, sir, suffer ourselves to become infected
with the transient, though violent disorder of a neigh-
bouring state ? Shall we do more, sir ? — shall we inoculate
this disorder to become a perpetual and incurable poiso^
in the very vitals of our constitution i I confess I did
not expect to see the symptoms of this distemper reappear
so soon in Pennsylvania, after all the successful efforts
that have been made to expel them from her borders.

It seems that I ought to be incapacitated froni enjoy •
ing the confidence of this state, while I hold an office
under the United States. And yet I may hold one office
in this state, and not be incapacitated from holding twenty
or thirty more. And yet I may hold an office under Nieir
jer8ey,and not be incapacitated. I may bold an office under
any other, and even under every other state in the Union,
and not be incapacitated. I may hold an office under ,
France, under any other state in Europe, under any oth^
state in the world, and not be incapacitated. I inay hav^
held an office under Great Britain, and, under that office^
m^rhave acted against the United States and against this
state, during aQ the late wari I may soil hold that very
office, and not be incapacitated* But—the position occurs
again— if I hold an office under the United States, I inust
be incapacitated from any trust under PennaylvsUiia.

Whence, 8ir?«-in the name of wonder— whence this
principle of hostility— -this principle of hostility » operating
solely and peculiarly— betweei^ this commonwealth and
the United States ? Let it be explained : let us know its
origin : let us know its nature : let Oa kn6w' its ^xtftht :
let us know its effects.

If diis principle exists, and ought to be provided
against; it is surprising that no sach provision was made

CONy^NTXON OT P£NKSYLyA»;iA. 347

or recommended against it, by the, general convention,
formeid of members from all the states in the Union— -a
convention, ivhich, I believe, understood the interests of
the Union and of all its parts. If it ought to be a part
of our constitution that ^' no person, holding any office
*^ under the United States, shall, at the same time, hold
*^ any office in this state ;" it ought to have been a part of
the constitution of the United States, that ^^ no person
**^ holding any office under Pennsylvania, or any other
*^ state in the Union, shall, at the same tinie, hold any
^.^ office in the national governmenti'' But no such pkrt
is to be found in that constitution. We may presume-—
I suggest it with deference — ^we may presume, that the
whole knew the proper connexion between itself and its
parts ; and provided for the preservation, the strength,
and the limits of that connexion, as well as one of the
parts can know and provide for the preservation, the
strength, and the limits of its connexion with the whole.
But no such provision as this is made by those, who had
the whole state of the Union before them: the inference
is fair, that this provision is dictated, not by a general aitd
comprehensive, but by a partial and contraicted view of
the subject*

Will the principle of this motion contribute to pre-
serve or to strengthen the political connexion between the
United States and the commonwealth of Pennsylvania?
Will it not, on the other hand, contribute to weaken, to
interrupt, or to dissplve it^ The principle of this motion^
sir, is a principle of polijUcal Alienage : I go farther*-it
(qpnt^ns a declaration of political hostility by this corn-
igonwealth against the United States. It declares that
this;cqmn\on>f e^h ought not to trust or <employ any per«
whom l^e Uinitcid States have thought wortliiy of

348 SPEECH DEf.IVER£D IK THE

tnist or employment. On what foundation can such a
declaration rest? It can have no reasonable foundation^
unless the interests and views of the United States are, in
their nature and tendency, hostile, to the interests and
views of this commonwealth. Let it be shown wherein
this hostility of views and interests consists.

I have already admitted, that there are many instances^
in which offices under different govemihehts are incom-
patible in point of propriety, or in point of policy, in the
nature of their exercise, or in the place where they are
exercised. I have admitted also, that an accumulation of
offices may be very improper under the same government.
But it has appeared, that the principle, the tendency, and
the object of this motion are not to prevent any incompa*
tibilities or improprieties of these kinds.

On the other hand, there are many instances, in which
different offices, not only under the same government, but
even under different governments, may be held, not only
with great propriety, but even with great advantage to the
publick, by the same persons. Against the enjoyment of
this publick advantage, the motion before you is levelled
and directed.

And yet, sir, our own experience has attested its happy
effects. During the late war, we reaped solid benefits
from the exertions and talents of officers*— in one instance^
of a very distinguished officer — hi the service of France,
Would we have reaped those benefits, had France adopted,
against the United States, the unfriendly principle, which
is now recommended to a state, hitherto one of the most
federal and one of the most affectionate in the Union ?
Suppose the sovereign of those officers to have dedaied

r^

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA. 349

tp them in the spirit of this motion — *^ the moment you
** accept any of&ce under the United States, you shall be
^^ disqualified, by that acceptance, from holding any office
**in lily service,'* — ^what^would have been the conse*
quence ? The United States would have been deprived of
their military skill and assistance. But, happily for us,
the king of France was not actuatc^d by the spirit of this
motion : shall I risk the expression, that he was more
federal ? ^

\

On how many sudden and unforeseen enlergencies may
the services of a stated officer of the United States be
useful, perhaps, in the opinion of the publick, necessary
for this commonwealth ! On how many sudden and un-
foreseen emergencies may the services of a stated officer
of this commonwealth be useful, perhaps, in the opinion
of the publick, necessary for the United States ? Why,
in both cases, should the door of mutual, useful, neces-
sary, and patriotick exertion be constitutionally shut?
For this motion will operate both ways. If the officers
of the United States are to be considered as aliens with
regard to their capacity of holding offices under this com-
monwealth : the officers of this commonwealth must be
considered as aliens with regard to their capacity of hold-
ing offices tinder the United States.

\yhen I say, sir, that^ in both instances, they must
be considered as aliens ; I use an expression much too
soft^ for under both constitutions-^hat of the United
States and that which we propose — aliens may be em-
ployed in -many offices. This motion, if adopted, will,
therefore, introduce, between the United States, and
this state, as to offices, more than a state of alienage. I
was justified iu saying, that thia motion contained a

/

»

inrindple find dedaratkm pf pplittical hostility, a$ to offices,
betv^een this cooamonwealth and the United State. Be*
fore the sentence of disfr^chisexaentfrom o^ce in Penn-
sylvania he parsed, by the adoption of this motion,
a£^inst the officer of the United States ; I again tlemand
that it be. clearly Aown wherein the ]^inciple of political
hostility t^etween the two^yeirnmentsc^isist^

I think it has been suggested, that unless the principle
of this motion be introduced into the constitution^ the
government of the United States may fic^uire, in Penn-
sylvania, an influence dangerous to her counsels, danger-
ous to her interests, and dangerous even to her existence.
That government, it was supposed, might, by appointing
to its offices the officers of this state, attach them to the
Eieasures, the interests, and the counsels of the United
States, in opposition to the measures, the interests, and
the counsels of Pennsylvania. Like the motion, this
reasoning in support of it b founded on an implied
principle of hostility bettn^ieen the two governments.
Before the committee subscribe to the reasoning, they
will require that the principle of hostility be shown.

But let us, for a moment, suppose it to ei^ist : let
us suppose that the measures, and interests, and.cQunsels
of the United States are in diametrical and inveterate
Opposition to those of Pennsylvania: let us suppose,
that^. in order to promote those adverse inter^ej^ts, to
estatdish those adverse cQujaAek,.andto carry into effect
tiKMie adverse .measures, the president and senate of .the
. United Abates should cafi to their aid, ^nd asspqiate in
tiheir.deaigiis, tbexifficers of PeDn^ylvspoiia ; woi^d kbe
politick or. wise in PenAsyJyania to cooperate, in the
.^QfttdBEectualsianner, .wi^>lbej»reai^Qt.axid.8C3D|ite for

CONVENTION OF PENNtfTLVANIA, 351 V

the accomplishment of their plans ? Could she "do this
more effectually by any means, than* by detaching froiiri
her all the officers of the state, whom the president
and senate would wish to attach to them ? Could shfe
detach them from het more effettually by any 'rtrfrans,
than by disfranchising them from their offices, ^and by
treating them asr aliefis, nay, Worse than sdiens ? Could
she do this ttiore effectually by any meaiis, than l^y
cutting asunder the stroligest tie's of political coilliexion^
and political iaffectioh between her and thein ?

I believe, sir, you msiy hear, frorti som<^ ^tat6^, a
series of reasoning; very opposite to that before men''
tioned: you may hear a train of refle'ctioil to the following
purpose : What ! shall we part with the interests, with
the affections, and with the services of otir citiiietiSy
because they are csdied into the service 6{ the Uiiiteid
States ? No. Let us retain their interests ; for their
interests will be ours : let us retain theirWectibhsr for
these, at least, may remain with iis: letiistei^in their
services, as far as they shaU be ' cbnlpatifile-i— and, in
many instances, they will be con<patiblc>^with their
superiour duty to tlje' United' Stated.

Whether this train of r^flktidn acad res^sdhihg'be juit
and strong, I shaU not pretend to d^terniih^. I shall
only observe, that, as far as I know, the conduct of eVery
state in the union has been consonant to iti excepting
.only that of the commonwealth of Virginia — and shall
I, after somd time, be obliged to make the cruel addi-
tion—and excepting likewise that of the commonwealtti
of Pennsylvania r

^ti's possibte^ sir, though I Wilt Hotf allow it to be
probable, that t&is orud aidditioii idusth^'made.
352 SPEECH DEI^IVJSRED IN THE

possibk) tboughi again,. I will not allow it to be probable,
that Pennsylvania may become as infamous for her anti-
federal, as she has hitherto been renowned for ber
federal principles* 'Tis possible, though, still, I will
not allow it to be probable, that she may hereafter be as
much dishonoured by the littleness, as she has heretofore
been admired for the liberality, of her politicks. Her
counsek may take an inverted and diminishing turn.
Those, sir, who cannot shine in a spacious sphere, will
wish to draw some notice in a contracted one. Those,
who cannot be distinguished by acting a part in an
enlarged system, will endeavour to distinguish them-
selves by acting as the little but principal puppets in a
narf'ow and separated scene. Into such hands, sir, it is
possible — ^though I once more enter my protest against
the probability of the event, — ^that Pennsylvania, for her
sins, may fall.

If this very improbable, but very possible event
should take place; then, indeed, the cruel addition,
which I have already mentioned, must be made. Yet
even dien, this cruel circumstance would carry with it,
in some degree, its own alleviation. In such a circum<«
stance, the pangs'of separation from Pennsylvania would
become less severe. Even in such a circumstance, I
hope one consolation might be constituticMially allowed
me. On my way to the government of the United
States, I might turn and look back from the opposite
shore of the Delaware ; and though Pennsylvania should
reject my faithful services, she might permit me, with
a fluttering heart and feultering tongue, to wish her
welL

But, sir, I will not pursue the ooosideratioii of an
event to . irreooncilable with the present genius and

CONVENTION OF PENNSYLVANIA 353

principles of Pennsylvania* Is she jealous, bbc|iuse her
sons are received into the arms of the United States?
No, sir. Was she to open her lips upon this occasion,
we* should hear the foUowpg, or some such as the fol-
lowing, accents : " Though I cheerfully resign you to
*' the servite of the Union, in which my own service
'^ is, to many important purposes, included ; yet I
** renounce not your affections ; nor do I abdicate my
•' well founded claim t6 your duty. You may still be
** of use to me ; and I retain my right to the exertioiis
.** of your usefulness, whenever I shall call upon you on *
** a proper occasion. In the mean time, employ your
^^ ulmost efforts for the interest of the United States:
** by doing this, you will essentially promote mine ; and
•* you will be likewise better prepared, and better dis-
*' |>osed for serving me, whenever I shall particularly
** require your service." Such would be the language,
such would be the sentiments, of our venerable political
parent. Such, sir, without personification, and without an
allegory, I believe to be literally and strictly the language
and sentiments of a great majority of the people of this
commonwealth. This language and these sentiments are
in direct contradiction to the language and principlesi of
the motion before you. To which will this comniittee
pay the greatest regard ?

VOL* III, ji %

A CHARGE

BBLITBRSD

TO THE GRAND JURY

IN THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,

FOR THE DISTRICT OF VmGnOA,

» MAty 179U

f -'

;

A CHARGE

TO THE GRAND JURY

IN THE

CmeUIT COURT for the district op VIRGINIA-^

• G^NTtEMBN OF THE ORAND JURT|

A O prevent crimes is the noblest end and aitti of cri-
minal jurisprudence. To punish thciri^ is one of the
means necessary for the accomplishtfient of this noble
end and aim* The impunity of an offender eiicourages
him to repeat his offences. The witnesses of bis impu-
nity are tempted to become his disciples in his guilt,
l^hese consideration* form the strongest — some view
them as the sole argument for the infliction of punish-
ments bv human laws.

There arc^ in punishments, three qualities, which
render thefn the fit preventives of crimes. The first
is their moderation. The second is their speediness*
The third is their certaititj%

We tifc told by some writers, that the number df
f rimes is un^u^itionaMy dimitrished by the severity of

>

558 A CHARGE TO TH£ GRAND JURY '

•

punishments. If we inspect the greatest part of the cri-
minal codes ; tfa^ir unwieldy bulk and their ensanguined
hue will force us to acknowledge, that this opinion may
plead, in its favour, a very high antiquity, and a very ^x«
tensive reception. On accurate and unbiassed eumination^
however, it will appear to be an opinion unfounded and
pernicious, inconsistent with the principles of our nature,
and^ by a necessary consequence, wjth those of wifte and
good government.

)

So far as any sentiment of generous sympathy is su£>
fered, by a merciless code, to remain among the citizens,
their abhorrence of crimes is, by the barbarous exhibi*
tions of human agony, sunk in their commi^ration of
criminals. These barbarous exhibitions are productive
of another bad eiFect— -a latent and gradual, but a poweiv
ful, because a natural, aversion to the laws. Caii laws,
vhich are a natural anda just object of aversion, receive
a cheerful obedience, or secure a regular and uniform
execution i The expectation is forbidden by &ome. of the
strongest principles in the human frame* Such laws,
while they excite the compassion of society for thos(e who
suffer, rouse its indignation against those who are active
in the steps preparatory to their sufferings.

We may easily conjecture the result of those combined
emotions, operating vigorously in concert. The criminal
wiH, probably, be dismissed without prosecution bjr
those whom he ha& injured. If prosecuted and tried,
the jury wiU probably fi^d, or think the}'^ find, somie
decent ground, on which they may be justified, or at
least excused, in giving a verdict of acquittal. If con*
dieted, the judges will, with avidity, receive and support
every, the nicest excepticm, to the proceedings agaiatt

IH THE CIRCUIT COURT, ' 35»

%

him ; and, if all other things should fail, wHl have i^*
course to the last expedient within their reach for ex-
empting him from rigorous punishment — ^that of recom-
mending him to the mercy of the pardoning power. In
this manner, the acerbity of punishment deadens the
execution of the law.

The criminal, pardoned, repeats the crime, under
the expectation that the impunity also will be re«
peated. The habits of vice and depravity are gradually
formed within him. Those habits acquire, by exercise^
continued accedsions of strength and invetieracy* In
the progress of hid career, he is led to engage in some
desperate attempt. From one desperate attempt he bold*
ly proceeds to another, till, at last, he necessarily becomes
the victim of that preposterous rigour, which repeated
impunity had taught him to despise,^ because it had per-
Buaded him that he might always escape.

. When, on ^he other hand, punishments are moderate
and niild, every one will, from a sense of interest and
of«duty, take his prbper part in detecting, in exposing,
in trying, and in passing sentence on crimes. ' The con-
sequence will be, that ctiminals will seldom elude the
vigilance, or baffle the energy, of publick justice.

True it is, that, on some emergencies., excesses of
a temporary nature may receive a sudden xheck from
rigorous penalties: but their continuance and their fre-
quency introduce and .diffuse a hardened insensibility
among the citizens ; and this insensibility, in its turn,
gives occasion or pretence to the farther extension and
multiplication of those penalties. Thus one degree of
severity opens and smooths the way for another, till, at

960 A CRAROI TO TH£ GRAKX) JURT

lengthy under the specious appearance of necessary jus^*
tice, a system of cruelty is established by lavr.

'Sucb/a system is calculated tQ eradicate all the manly
sentiments of the soul, and to substitute^ in their place,
dbpositlons of the most depraved and. degrading kind*
It is the psurent of pusillanimity. . A r.ation broke to
cruel punishments becomes dastardly and contemptible.
For, in nations, as well as individuals, cruelty is always
attended 1^ cowardice. It is the parent of slav^ry^ In
every government, we find the genius of freedom de«
pressed in proportion to the sanguinary spirit of the
laws* It is hostilp tp the prosperity of nation^, as well
as to the dignity and virtue of. mezu The laws, which
Draco framed for Athens, ^ are 4aid emphatically
to have been written in blood. What did they.produce ?
All aggravation of those very^ calamities) which they
were intended to remove. A scene of the greatest and
most complicated distress was accordingly exhibited by
the miserable Atheniatis, till they found relief in the
wisdom and moderation of Solon^^ It is a standing oh*
servation in China<--and China has enjoyed; a very Igng /
experience-^tbat in prop(^rtion as the punishments of
criminals are increased, the empire S4)proaches to a new
revolution. The Porcian law {tt'ovided, that no citizen
of Rome should be exposed to a sent<;nce of death*
Under the, Porpiaa law, the commonwealth grew and
.flourished. Severe punishments were established by the
emperours. Under the emperours, llome declined and
felL

The principles both of utility and of justice require,
that the commission .of a crime should be IqUm^. bp «
«>cpiy j i afl i ctten rf its PiMMrfu»eott

IN THE CIRCUIT CpURT. S61

.«

The ftesociation of ideas has vast power over the
sentiments, the passions, and the conduct of men* When
a penalty inarches close in the rear of the offence,, against
which it is denounced ; an association^ strong and strikingi
is produced between them : and they are viewed in the
inseparable relation of cause and effect. When, on the
contrary, the punishment is procrastinated to a remote
period ; this connexion is. considered as weak and pre-
carious ; and the execution of the law is beheld an^
suffered as a detached instance o^ severity, warranted by
no cogent reason, and springing from no laudable motive*

It is just, as well as useful, that the pvuxiahm^il
'should be inflicted soon after the commission of the
crime. It shbul^ never be forg;otten, that impri^ofimenjt,
though often necessary fof th^ safe custody of the per-
son accused, is, nevertheless," in itself, a punishment^—
a punishment galling to some of the finest feelings of
the heart— a punishment too, which, since it precedes
' cbnviction, inay be as ^ undeserved as it is distressing.
But imprisonment is not the only penalty, which an ac-
cused person undergoes before his trial. He undergoes
also the corrodiAg torment of suspense— the keenest

• agoiiy, perhaps, which falls to the lot of suffering, hum$-
siiity. This agony^s by no nieans to be estimated by
the real probability or danger of conviction : it bears a
compound proportion .to the delicacy of sentiment and

• the strength of imagination possessed by him, who if
4oomed to become its prey.

These observations show, that those accused of crimes
should be speedily tried, and that those convicted of
them should be speedily punished. But with regavd to
this, as with regard to almost every other subject, there

VOL. III. 3 A

56a A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY

is an extreme on one hand as well as on the other; and the
extremes on each hand should beavoided with equal care.
In some cases, at some times, and under some circum*
stance's, a delay of the trial and of the punishment,
instead of being hurtful or pernicious, may, in the
highest degree,^ be salutary and beneficial, both to the
publick, and to him who is accused or convicted*

Prejudices may naturally arise, or may be artfully
fomented, against the crime, or against tHe man who is
charged with having committed it. A delay sh6uld be
allowed, that those prejudices may subside, and that
neither jurors nor judges may, at the trial, act under the
fascinating impression of sentiments conceived before,
the evidence is heard. Instead' of the calm influence of
those which should be only its impartial and deliberate
result. A sufficient time should be given to preparie the
prosecution on the part of the state, and the defence of
it on th6 part of the prisoner. This time must vary
according to different persons, different crimes, and dif-
ferent situations. - '" ► .

After convictiop', the punishment assigned to an infe-
riour offence should be indicted with much expedition.
This will strengthen the useful association between them;
one appearing as the immediate and unavoidable conse-
quence of the other, , When a sentence of death is pro-
nounced, such an interval should be permitted to elapse
before its execution as will render the language of poli-
tical 'expediency consonant to die language of religion.

Under these qualifications, the speedy punishment of
crimes should form a part in every system of criminal
jurisprudence.

IN TpE CIRCUIT. COURT. 363

Bat ^ the certainty of punishments is that quality,
ivhich is of the greatest importance in order to consti-
tute them fit preventives of cringes. This quality is,
in its operation, most merciful as well as most powerful*
When a criminal determines on the commission of a
crime, he is no't so much influenced by the lenity of the
punishment, as by the expectation that, in some way or
other, he may be fortunate enough to avoid it. This is
particularly the case with him, when this expectation is
cherished hy, examples or by experience of impunity.
It was the saying- of Solon, that he had completed his
system of laws by the combined energy of justice and
strength. By this expression he meant tp. denote, that
laws, of themselves, would be of very little service?,
unless they were .enforced by a faithful and an^eifectual
execution of diem. The strict execution of every crimi"
luz/law is the dictate of humanity as well ^ of wisdom*

This strict execution is greatly promoted by accuracy
in the publick police, by vigilance and activity in the
ministerial officers of justice, by a prompt and regular
communication of intelligence, and by a proper distribu-
tion of rewards for the discovery and apprehension of
criminals.

' Among all the plans and establishments, however,
which have been devised for securing the wise and uni-
form execution of the criminal laws, the institution of
grand juries holds the most distinguished pl,ace. This
institution is, at least in the present times, the peculiar
boast of the common law. The era of itsr commence-
ment, and the particulars attending its gradual progress
and improvement, are cpnceaied behind the thick veil of
a. very remote antiq)iit)U Bat one thing concerning it ig

364 A CHARGE TO THE GKAMD JURY

certaift. In the annals of the world , there is not found
another institution so well adapted ^for ^avoiding all the
inconveniences and abuses, which would otherwise afise
from malice, from rigour, from negligence, or from par-
tiality in thfe prosecution of crimes;

Among the Romans, any one of the citize«is{ as weB
as the person more immediately injured, might, prose-
cute a publick offence. This practice produced ntischiefs
very great, and of very opposite kiodi^. Prosecutions
Were conducted, on some occasions, from motives of
raneour and revenge. On other occasions, they were
undertaken by a friend, perhaps a cpnfederate of the
eriminal, with a view to ensure his impunity.

^ In several of the feudal nations, the judge himself
wsis originaMy the prosecutor. The gro^s imi»*opriety
of Such a ifgulation appears at the first view. The
prosecutor is a party: can tke same person be both a
party and a judge f To remove the grievances, to which
this regulation gave birth, a publick prosecutor wdi
appointed to manage the judicial business of' the crolrn^
or of the community, before jthe proper tribunes*

> But that crimes may be prosecuted duly and regularly^
it is necessary that impartial and authentick information
df their existence sho^d be obtained. , To furnish such
information is the great object of the institution of^rsmd
juries. . *

Sometimjes the grand jury brinj; forward iiccttsatiotit
of their own proper motion : sometimes they proceed
upt>n particular charge formally laid before thetti by tte
jmblick prosetuton These two m^odiefr ttre dint&glikiitil

*

by the well knpwn appellatiptis of presentment vind mditt*
merit. In both, it is the right, and it is the duty of a
grand jury, to inquire diligently, and to present truly, .

It is your immediate business, gexitlemeti^ to make
inquiries and give official information concerning such
crimes and offetices ass.may have been committed against
the constitution and laws of the United States, and are
cognizable by this circuit court held for the district of
Virginia in the middle circuit. To assist you in those in-
quiries, I'shsdl describe to you the jurisdiction^ which, in
criminal matters, is vested in the circuit courts ; 2m^ I
fihail give you a very plain atid concise account of the
crimes and offences known to the constitution and law«
of the United Stktes, and of the punishments denoui^ced
agalridt those crimes, and offences.

The circuit courts have ^^c/ww^ Jurisdiction of all
crimes and offences, which are cognizable utoder the
authority of the United States j except where it is or
shall be provided otherwise Vy law. Tliey have alsi)
toncutreM jurisdiction with the district courts, of the
crimes and oilences, wEich are cognizable in tho^e
courts * The crimes and offences^ af which the district
courts hav5 jurisdiction, and ofl which, consequently^
the circuit Courts h^ve cbncurrent jurisdiction, are all
Buch as ate cognizable under the authority of the United
States, provided they be committed withih the respec-
tive districts, or on the high seas ; and provided they
be those on which no other punishment than a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars, imprisonment not exceed*

a Laws U. S. Cong. I. sess. 1. c 20. s. 11.

366 A CHARGE TO THE ORAKD JUflY

ing six months, or whipping t^ot exceeding thirty airipes
is to be inflicted*^

Treason generally occupies the fir^t place in the long
catalogue of crimes.. On this'^subject, so interesting to
the publick and to the citizens, a very important improve-

r

ment has been ingrafted by the constitution of the United
States.

If the description of treason be vague and indeter-
minate under any government ; this alone will be a suffi.
ciexit cause why that government should degenerate into
tyranny.' If the denomination and the p^snalties of treSson
be conamunicated to offences of a different and inferipur
kind; the horrour, which would otherwise attend this
complicated crime, is weakened by the association with
&ings, to which, in truth, it has neither relation nor
resemblance. *

In the reign of Henry the eighth, a law was m£ide in £a«
gland by which any one^ who predicted the death of the
king, was declared guilty af treason. Arbitrary power, on
some occasions, recoils upon those who exert it. When
this capricious and tyrannic^ prince lay on his death
bed, his physicians would not inform him, oi his danger,
because they would not incur the penalties of his law.
We are tqld by the English parliament itself, that, at
another period, so many " pains of treason were ordained
by statute, that nO' man knew how to behave himself, to
do, spes^k, or say, for doubt of such pains."

y

^ Laws U. S« Con. 1. less. 1. c. SO. s. 9.

IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. 367

Under our national government^ we. have not only a
legaV^ bift a constitutional security against arbitrary and
constructive treasons*

1. Under that government, treason against the United
States can be ^committed oniy by levying war against
them, or by adhering to their enemies, giving them aid
and comforU «

2. Misprision of treason consists in knowing the Com*
mission of treason, and not disclosing it, as soon as may
be, to the president or some one of the judges of thd
United States, or to the first executive magistrate or some
one of the judges or justifies of a particular state.

d

( f

Other crimes and offences against the United States
may be comj^rised lindcr the following enumeration.—-
,3* Wilful murder^ committed in any place under the ex-
clusive jurisdiction of the United States,^ or upon the
high seas^ or in any river, haveii^ basin or bay not withii^
the jurisdiction of any particular state. * 4. Manslaughter
committed in 'any place under the exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States, « or upon the high seas. ^ 5. Rob-
bery committed upon the high seas^ pr in any river, haven
or ba3rnot within the jurisdiction of any particular state. ^
6. The piratical and felonious running away with any
vesseV or with any goods to the value of fifty dollars, or
yielding up such vessel voluntarily to any pirate, by any
captain or mariner of such vessel.^ 7. Th^ laying of vio-

c Con. U. S. art 3. s. 3. ^ Laws U.S. Coa.1. se8s.3. c 9. s. 2.
« Laws U.S. con. 1. sess. 2. c 9, s.3. ^ Id s. 8. c Id. s. T. '
^Id.s.12. ild.8.8. Jidibid

5#S A Charge to thz grand jury

tent hands, hy a Beaman, upon his comtnatider, in order to
hinder his fighting in defence of hili ship or goods com-
mitted to his trust. ^ 8. The making of a revolt in a ship
by any seaman. * 9. Piracy or robbery (as specified in
the law) or any act of hostility against the United States
or a cki^n thi^eof, comn^itted by any citizen lipon the
high seas, on pretence of authority from any persoit, or
tinder coloui" of a commission from a foreign pruuie or
state.™ 10. Confederacy with pirates. ^ 11.. The false
making, altering, forging, or eountetfeititig of any certi-
ficate, indent, or other publick security of -the United
States. • 12. The causing or procuring of aay certificate,
* kident» (Jr other publidk security of the United States to
be falsely' made, altered, forged, or counterfeited. ^ 13»
Acting or assisting willingly in the false making, altering^
forging, or counterfeititig of atiy^iudi certificate, indent,
or other publick security. * 14. The uttering, putting
off, or offering, i4i payment or for' saje^ of any s\ich false,
forged, altered, or counterfeited 'Certificate, indent, or
other publick security, with intention to defraud any per-
•ton, and with knowledge that the same is &lse, altered^
forged, or counterfeited. *" 15. The causing bf any such
false, forged, altered, or counterfeited certificate, indent,
or other publick security to he mttered, put oflF, or offered,
in payment 6r^ for sale, with the kno^wledge and ittention
^already mentioned.* 16. The getting atKrberty by force,
and the rescuing of any person, convicted of a capital
crime, or, before conviction, committed fot a capital
crime, or committed for or convicted of any oth^r offence.

fc Laws U. S. con. 1. sess. 3. c. 9. s. 8. i Id. iMd. "* Id. s. 9.
• Id. s. 13. ^ Id.s. 14. P Id. ibid. « Id. ibid. '• Id. ibid.
> Idibid. t Id.8.33,

in THE CIRCUIT COURT. S6t

i7» Misprision of felony, which consists in knowing the
commission of wilful murder or other felony upon the
high seas, or within any fort, arsenal, dock yard, maga**
sine, or other place or district of country under the sole
and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and not
.disclosing it as soon as may be to some one of the judges
or other person in civil or military authority under the
United States. ^ IB. The cutting off of the ear, the cut*
ting out or disabling of the tongue, the putting out of an
eye, the slitting of the nose, the cutting off of the hose or
a lip, the cutting off or disabling of any limb or member
of any person, unlawfully, on purpose and pf malice afore*
thought, and with intention, in so doing, to mai^ or dis* *
figure such person : provided these crimes be committed
in any place under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States, or upon the high seas, in any vessel belonging to
the United States or to any citizen of the United States/
19. Perjury committed .wilfully and corruptly on oath or
affirmation in any suit or matter before any court, or in
any dejiosition taken pursuant to a law, of the United
States* ^ 20. The procuring of any person to commit
corrupt and wilful perjury in any of the cases just men**
tioned. * 31. The giving^ directly or indirectly, of any
sum of money, or any other bribe, present, or reward, or
any proinise, contract, obligation, or security for the pay-
ment or delivery of any money, present, or reward, or
any other thing, to procure the opinion, judgment, or
decree of any judge of the United States in any suit or
matter depending before him. ^ 22. The accepting by
any judge of any such sum f>f money, bribe, present,

•

» LawsU.&con. l.sess. 3.C 9.8.6. ▼Ids. 13. ^ Id. 8.18.
» Id. ib. y Id. 8. 21.

VOL. III. 3 B

SfO A CHARCE to TBE grand J0RT

reward, promise, contract, obligation, or 8ecurit7«* 22.
Oppression or extortion by any supervisor or officer of
inspection, in the execution of his office* * 24. The land-
ing, in any place within the limits of the United States^
of goods entered for exportation, with a view to draw
back the dirties. ^ 25. The resisting-or impeding of any
officer of the customs^, or any person assisting him, in the
execution of his duty. ^ 26. The resisting or opposing,
knowingly and wilfully, of any officer of the United States
in serving or attempting to serye ptpcess of any court of
the United States : and the assaulting, beating, or wound-
ing of any officer, or other person duly authorized^ in
serving or attempting to serve such process. ^ 27. The
felonious stealing, taking away, altering, falsifying, or
otherwise avoidipg of any record, writ, process, or other
proceeding in any court of the United States, by means
whereof any judgment shall not take effect, or shall be
reversed or made void. ^ 28. . The acknowledging or
procuring to be acknowledged, in any court of the United
States, of any recognizance, bail, or judgment, in the
name of any person not privy or consenting to it. There
is an exception with regard to attomies duly admitted.^
. 29. Taking and carrying away, with an intent to steal or
purloin the personal goods of another, upon tl|e high seaS)
or in any place within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States. ^ 30. The embezzling, purloining, or
conveying away of any victuals provided for any soldiers,
gunners, marines, or pioneers, or of any arms, ordnance,

' Laws U. S. con. 1. setl. 2.^c. 9. & 21. ^ Id. sess. S. c. 15. s. 39.
^ Id. sess. 2. c. 35. s. 59. < Id. sess. 3. c 35. s. 59.

^ Id. sess. 3. c.9. s. 33. « Id. sess. 3. c 9.S. 15. ^ Id. &h<L
s Id. sess. 3. c. 9. s. 1^.

IN THE CIRCUIT COltRT. 371

munition, shot, powder, or habiliments of war,,belonging
to the United States, by any person having the charge or
custody thereof; provided such embezzling, purloining,
or carrying away be for lucre, or willingly, advisedly and
of purpose to impede the seWice of the United States. ^
31. The suing forth, or prosecuting, or executing of any
writ or pfoccss, by which the person of any publick foreign
minister, received as such by the president of the United
States, or any domestick or domestick servant of any such
minister, may be arrested or imprisoned, or Ms goods
seized. ^ 32* The violation of any safe conduct or pass-
port duly obtained under the authority of the United
Stated. ^ 33. The assaulting, striking, wounding, impri-
soning,- or, in any othe^ manner, infracting the laws of
nations by offering violence to the person of a publick
minister. ^

In the foregoing catalogue, murder, manslaughter,
robbery, piracy, forgery, perjury, bribery, and extortion
are mentioned as crimes and offences ; but they are neither
defined nor described. For this reason, we must refer
to some preexisting law for their defit^ition or description.
To what preexisting law should this reference be made ?

This is a question of immense importance and extent*
it must receive an answer \ but I cannot, in this address,
assign my^reasons for the answer which I am to give — ^The
reference should be made to the common law.

To the common law, then, let us resort for the defi-
Bition or description of the crimes and offences, which,

> LawsU. St con« 1. sess.3. c9. 9, 16. i I(i s. 35. 36.

j Id. 8, 28. I'Icllbia.

372 A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY

in the laws of the United States^ have been named, ba
have not been described or defined. You will, in this
manner, gentlemen, be furnished with a legal standard^
hj the judicious application of which you may ascertain^
with precision, the true nature and qualities of such facts
and transactions as shall be come the objects of your consi-
deration and research*

In outlaw books, murder is thus described : it is when
a person, of sound memory and of the age of discretion,
unlawfully killeth any reasonable creature with malice
^forethought, express or implied. Manslaughter is de-
scribed as*-^the unlawful killing of another, without ma«>

r

lice, either express or implied. The distinction strongly
marked between murder and manslaughter is, that the
former is committed with, the latter, without malice afore*
thought* It is essential, therefore, to know clearly and
accurately the true and legal import of this characteristick
distinction*

There is a very considerable difference between that
sense, which is conveyed by the expression, malice, in
common language, and that, to which the term is s^pro.^
priated by the law. In common language, it is most
frequently used to denote a sentiment or passion of strong
malevolence to a particular person ; or a settled anger and
desire of revenge in one person against another* In law,
it means the dictate of a wicked and malignant heart ;
of a depraved, perverse, and incorrigible disposition.
Agreeably to this last meaning, many of the cases, which
are arranged under the head of implied malice, will be
found to turn upon this single point; that the fact has
been attended with such cireumstaiices««*particularly the
circumstances of deliberati<ni and cruelty coDcuiiiog^-*4V

IK THE CIUCUIT COURT, 573

betr9;y the plain indications and" genuine symptoms of a
mind grievously depraved, and acting from motive*
highly criminal ; of a heart regj^rdless of social duty,
and fatally bent upon mischief. .This is fhe tri^e notioa
of tnalice in the legal sense of the word. The mischievous
aad vindictive spirit denoted1:)y it muat always be col-
lected and inferred from the eircumatances if the trans-
action^ On the circumstances of the transaction, the
closest attention should, for this reason, be bestowed.
Every circumstance may weigh something in the scale
of justice.

\

. Robbery is a felonious and violent taking, from the
person of another, of money or goods to any value, put*
ting him in fear. From tlus definition it appears, that
to constitute a ro^bbery, the three foUowing ingredients
are indispensable. 1. A felonious intention, or anitmu
Jitrandi^ 2. Some degree of violence ashd putting itt
fear. 3. A taking from the person of another. Upon
each of these three points there is much klurned dis«
quisition in the books cff the lav.

Piracy is robbery and depredation upon the high aeas.^
The word piffate^ says my Lord Coke, ^ in Latin piratOy
is derived from the Greek word ^tu^mtnty which is again
fetched from fm^i^ a transeundo mari^ or roving upon
the sea ; and, therefore, in English, a pirate is called a
rover or robber upon the sea.

Pimcy is a crime against the universal law of society :
a iHrate is h^sti^ humani generisy an enemy of die whole
human raee. By declaring war against all mankind^ he

•

3/4 A CHARGE TO TH£ GRAND JURt

has laid all mankind under the necessity of declaring
war against him. He has renounced the benefits and
protection of government and society : he has abandoned
himself to a> savage state of nature* The consequence
is, that, by the laws of selfdefence, every community
has a right to inflict upon Him that punishment, which,
in a state of nature, every individual would be entitled to
inflict for any invasion of his person or personal property.

" If any perion^^ says a law of the United States,
^^ shall commit, upon the high seas, or in any river,
haven, basin, or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any
particular state, murder^ or robbery ^ or any other olBence,
which, if committed within the body of a county^ would,
by the laws of the United States, be {Punishable with
death ; every such oifender shall be deemed, taken, and
adjudged to be a pirate and feiotij and being thereof
convicted, shall suffer death." "^

Placed in the high and responsible oflice of a judge
of the United States, I feel myself under an official oblir
gation to state some doubts, which arise in my mind
upon this part of the law. Impressed, at I ought to be,
both as a citizen ^nd a judge, with the strdngest regard
for the legislative authority of the United States, I pro-
pose those doubt3 most respectfully, and with the greatest
degree of diffidence.

Piracy, as we have seen, is a crime against the univer*
sal law of society. By that law, it may be punished by
every community. But the description of piracy, ac-
cording to thai law, is a robbery and depredation on the

n Laws U. & 1, Q0B.2. sess.c 9. s. 6*

IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. * 375

high seas. Is a murder j committed upon the high seas,
a piracy within the description of that law? ^^ If a
pirate, at sea,i^ assault a ship, but, by force, is prevented
entering her ; and, in the attempt^ the pirate iiil- a
person in the other ship ; they are all principals in such
a murder, if the common law have jurisdiction of the
offence ; but by the law maritime, if the parties be known,
they only who gave the wound shall be principals, and
the rest, accessories^^ From this authority and the
foregoing description of piracy, taken jointly into our
consideration, we might, perhaps, be naturally led to
infer, 1. That^a murder perpetrated in the attempt to
commit a piracy, is not a piracy. 2. That this crime
perpetrated in sitch an attempt, i^i by the maritime law
to be tried and punished as a murder, in which those,
who all attempted the piracy, shall be considered as cri*
minal in different degrees, according to the part, which
they severally acted with regard to the homicide.

The maritime law, is not the law of any particular
country : it is the general law of nations. " Non erit
alia lex Romab, alia Athenis \ alia nunc, alia posthac ;
sed et apud omnes gentes et omni tempore una eadem«
que lex obtinebit.'* ^

The law of nations has its -foundation in the princi-
ples of natural law, applied to states ; and in voluntary
institutions, arising from custom or convention. This
law is universal in its authority over the civilized part
of the world ; and is supported by the consideration of
its general utility, as well as that of its obligatory force.
This universal system has always been most liberally

B|ilo]loy.c4.s»13. - •S.Burr.SSr.

976 A CHARG£ TO THE^ GftANI^ JURT

recognized in that countiy, from which we derive the
boasted inheritance of the combion law. According to
the clear opinion declared hj the great Lord Chancellor
Talbot, the law of nations is, in itsjull extent^ a |>art of
the law of England. '

True it is, that, so far as the law of nations is voiun-
tary or positive^ it may be altered by the municipal legis*
lature of any state, in cases affecting only its own citizens.
True it is also, that, by a treaty, the voluntary or posi-
tive law of nations may be altered so far as the alteration
shall affect only the contracting parties. But equally true
it is, that no state or states can, by treaties or municipal
laws, alter or abrogate the law of nations any farther.
This they can no more do, than a citizen can, by his
single determination) or two citizens can, by a private
contract between them, alter or abrogate the laws of the
community, in which they reside.

Now the doubts, to which I have alluded, appear
directly before us. Is a person^ not a citizen of the
United States, who shall commit a murder upon the
high seas, liable, under this laWj to be deemed, taken
and adjudged to be ^pirate and felon, and, as suchj to
suffer death ? This question may be divided into two
subordinate ones. 1. Was it the intention of the legis-
lature, that this law should extend, in its operation, to
persons not citizens of the United States ? In the very
next section, the phrase is altered, and instead of saying,
V any person shall commit. It is said, if any diizen
shall commit any piracy. Sec . Shall the constructioii be,
that the legislature mean the jame thing, when they

»l.Bsnr.l48L

IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. 37f

use expressions so very different ? 2. On the supposition,
that the law was designed to extend, in its operation, to
persons not citizens of the United Stages ; can this design
be carried into effect, consistently with the predominant
authority of the law of nations, and of the universal law
of society?

The case may very probably happen, and come before
a grand jury for their ofHcial investigation. It was pro-
per to suggest my doubts concerning it. I hope I have
suggested them in the manner which I proposed to
myself.

I return to the definitions and descriptions given, by
the common law, of the crimes and offences mentioned,
but not described or defined, in the laws of the United
States. ...

To forge, says my Lord Coke, is metaphorically
taken from the smith, who beateth upon his auvil, and
forgeth what fashion or shape he will. The offence is
called crimen falsi ; the crime .of falsehood ; and the
offender, fakarius^ a falsifier. And this is properly
taken when the act is done in the name of another pcrscTn. ^
Withregard, however, to this last' part of the descrip-
tion of forgery, it has been since adjudged repeatedly
and very solemnly to be too narrow. It expresses, indeed,
the most obvious meaning of the word, and comprehends
that species of forgery which is most commonly practi- •
sed ; but there are other species, which will not come
within the letter of that description. An alteration in
the name or quantity of land conveyed, or iiji the sum of

^ 3. Ins. 169.
▼OL. III. 3 G

ZT8 A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY

money secured, is of this kind, and comes within the
legal notion of forgery.

Wilful and corfupt perjury is a crime committed^
when a lawful oath is administered, in some judicial
proceeding, hy one who has authprity, to a person who
swears absolutely and falsely, in a matter nsaterial to the
issue or cause in question.

^^ An. oath,'' says my Lord Coke, ^^ is so sacred, and s0
deeply concerns the consciences of men, that it cannot
be administered to any one, unless it be allowed by the
commofi law, or by act of parliament ; nor by any one,
who has not Authority by common law, or by act of par-
liament: neither can any oath, allowed by the common
law, or by actof pariiament, be altered, unless by act of
parliament." ' For these reasons, it is much to be doubted
whether any magistrate is justifiable in administering
voluntary affidavits unsupported, by the authority of law*
It is more than possible, that, by such idle oaths, a
man may frequently incur the guilt, though he evade
the temporal penalties of perjury*

It is a part of the foregoing definition of perjury,
that it must be when the person swears absolutely. In
addition to this, it has been said, that the oath must
be direct J and not, as the deponent thinks, or remembers,
or believes.* This doctrine has, however, been lately
questioned, and, it seems, on solid principles. When a
man swears, that he believes lyhat, in truth, he does not
believe, he pronounces a falsehood as much as when
he swears absolutely, that a thing is true, which he knows

' S. Ins. 16S. « Id. 165. 1. Haw. 17$.

/

/

IN, THE CIRCUIT COURT. ^ 379

-not to be true. My Lord Chief Justice Dc <lrey, in
a late case, saidy that it was a mistake, which mankind
had fallen into, that a person could not be convicted of
perjury for deposing on oath, according to his belief. '
It is certainly true, says my Lord Mansfield, that a
loan n^ay be indicted for perjury, in swearing that he
believes a fapt to be true, which he must know to be
false. °

Bribery is when ^ judge, or other person concerned
hxL the administration of justice, takes any undue reward
to. influence his behaviour in office. He who offers or
gives, as well as he who receives this undue reward, is
.guilty of an oifence against the law.

Extortion, taken in a large sense, is any oppression
hy colour or pretence of right \ but, in its proper sense,
it is a great misprision, in wresting by any officer, under
colour of his office, any money, either when none at all
is due, or not so much is due, or when it is not yet
due.

I have now enumerated, and, by references to the
common law, have explained the crimes and oifences
known to the constitution and laws of the United States*
It is next in order to consider the several punishments,
;inrhich ate annexed to those crimes and offences.

These punishments are of seven "different kinds:
disqualification for office— fine— imprisonment — ^whip-
ping — pillory — incapacity to give testimony-— death. Ta

t Leacfa. 304. m lUA-

380 ' A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY

some crimes more kinds of punishment than one are
assigned. To resistance of the officers of the customs
is annexed a fine. ^ To the landing of goodis entered
for exportation imprisonment is the punishment allotted.^
To bribery* and extortion ^ the punishments of disqualr-
fication, fine, and imprisohment are assigned. To mis-
prision of treason,' manslaughter,* misprision of felony,*
atrocious maiming, ^ a confederacy with' pirates,^ resist-
ance against process, ^ a rescue of persons not convicted
of any capital crime, ^ serving process for arresting a
publick minister,^ the violation of a safe conduct, and
violence to the person of a publick minister, ^ are assign-
ed the punishments of fine and imprisonment. Stealing
or falsifying records, and fraudulently acknowledging
bail, are punished with fine, imprisonment, and whip-
ping. ^ Fine and whipping are the punishments annexed
to larceny. J To perjury and subornation of perjuiy are
allotted the punishments of fine, imprisonment, the pil-
lory, and incapacity to give testimony.

It deserves to be remarked, that, in every instance
of punishment by fine, imprisonment, or whipping,
limits are fixed on the side of severity ; none, on the
side of mercy.

▼ LawsU.S.CQn. l.sess. 3.0.35. s. 50. ^ Id.s.59.

> Id.sess.3.c9.s.21. y Id. sess. 3. c 15. & 39.

« Id. 8CBS. 2. c 9. 8. 2. • Id. if r. 12. ■'Ids. 6.

«Id.8.1S. dld.s.12. eld.s.22. fld.s.23.

sid.t.2<S. ^Id.8.28. 'Ids. 15. i Ids. 16.

* Idi.ia

IN THE CIRCUIT COURT, 381

*

y
Against forging,* against procuring or assisting to
forge publick securities," against uttering or causing to
be uttered securities, which are forged," against the
rescue of persons convicted of capital crimes,** against
piracy, P against robbery,** against acts of hostility as
specified in the law, ' against making a revok in a ship,
agaitist violently hindering the captain of a vessel to fight
in its defence, against piratically running away with any
vessel," against murder,^ atid against treason, ° the punish-
ment of death is denounced.

Accessories before^ the fact to murder, robbery, or
other piracy upon the seas shall suffer death. Accesso-
ries after ^ the fact shall be fined and imprisoned. Re-
ceivers of stolen goods ' shall be liable to like punishments
as in the case of larceny.

It is proper to point out to a grand jury the kinds and
the grades of punishments ; because the respect due to the
legislature will lead us to conclude, that there are similar
kinds and well adjusted grades of crimes; because the
probability of a crime is in the inverse proportion to its
atrociousness ; and because, of consequence, a grand jury
will require a degree of evidence adequate to the crimi-
nality of every charge, which comes under their consi-
deration.

1 Laws U. S. con. 1. sess. 2. c.9. s. 14, "* Id* ibid. * Id. ibid*
«Id.s.23.. P Id.s.8. qld.ibid. rld.8.9. > Id. 8.8.
t Id. s. 3. "» Id. s. 1. V Id. s. la w Id. 8. lU

m

*id.8.ir.

9$9 A CHARGE TO THE GRAWD JURT

No person shall be (prosecuted for any capital crunc,
wilful murder or forgery excepted, unless the indictment
£oT it shall be found within three years after its commis**
«ion : nor shall any person be prosecuted for an oBFence
aot capital, or for a crime or forfeiture under a penal law;,
unless the indictment or information for it shall be found
•or instituted within two years after the commission of the
oflFence, or after the fine xur forfeiture has incurred. BjjA
4hese provisions shall not operate in favour of such as flee
from justice. 3^

One, who is indicted of treason, shall have, at least
three days before his trial, a copy of the indictment, and
a list, contait^ing the names and places of abode, of the

Jurors and of the witnesses to be produced pn the trial,
A person indicted for any other capital crime shaU havc;^
at least two entire days before his trial, such a list olthe

Jury, and a copy -of the indictment, '

The trial of all crimes shall be by Jury. «

Every one indicted shall be allowed to make his fill}
defence by counsel learned in the law. The court, or a
Judge of the court, before whom he is to be tried, shallt
<m his request, assign him counsel, such as he shall desirc«
4>ut not exceeding two ; and his counsel shall havei free
access to him at all seasonable hours. He shall also be
admitted to make, in his defence, any proof, which he
<:an produce by witnesses: to compel the attendance of
liis witnesses at his trial he shall have legal process, sinu-

y Law8U.S.Goo.l.aess.3.c.9.s.S3. « ]d.s.SlL

» Con. U. &ait a. s. iSL

IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. ' 3ft^

lar to that, which is granted to cofftpel witnesses to appear
on the prosecution against him.

No person shall be convicted of treason, unless on the
testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, 'or on
confession in open court. ^

The benefit of clergy shall not be used or allowed,
upon the convictionbf any crime, for which, by any statute
of the United States, the punishment is or shall be dc-
xlared to be death. ^

^he manner of inflicting the punishment df death
ahall be by hanging the person convicted, by the neck^
Untirdead.*

No conviction or judgment foi^any oiFence, yet punish-
able by the laws of the United States; shall work corrup-
tion of blood, or any forfeiture of estate. ^

I have now, gentlemen, given you an account, plains
and concise, and yet, I hope, not altogether imperfect, of
the criminal code, of the United States. It will be inte-
resting and instructive to compare this code, in- some <tf
its most remarkable regulations, with that of some other
country. For this comparison, I select the criminal code
of England. I select it, because, in other parts of Europe^
it has been proposed as a model, on account of its mild-
ness ; and because, contrasted with many systems of cri-
minal law, it is, indeed, comparatively mild. " That the
English system of jurisprudence has its abuses, I will

^ Laws U. S. con. 1. sess. 2. c 9. s. 39. ^ Con. U.S. art 3.8. 3.
A Laws U. Si con. 1.8e8s.3. c 9.8.11. eld. 8.33. ^ Id. 8. 34

AM A CHARQE TO TH£ GRAND JURY

readily agree^'^ says a-writer of a nation long the rival of
England ; ^^ but that it has fewer abuses than the system
of any other civilized country, is what I am. able ta
prove,

"8

It is the opinioii of some writers, highly respected fur
their good sense, as Well as for their humanity, that capi-
tal punishments are, in no case, necessary. It is an opi-
nion^ which I am certainly well warranted in oflFering —
that nothing but the most absolute necessity can authorize
them. Another opinion I am equally warranted in offering
— ^that they should not be aggravated by any sufferings,
except those which are inseparably attached to a violent
death. ^ It was worthy only of a tyrant *--^and of a tyrant
it was truly characteristick — ^to give standing instructions
to his executioQers, that they should protract the expiring
moments of the tortured criminal ; and should manag^e
the butchering business with such studied and slow bar-
barity, as that his ponders of painful sensation should con-
tinue to the very last — ut mori se sentiaU

Hear from the mouth of a celebrated lawyer — cele-
brated, however, for his learning, more than for his hu-
inanity — the sentence pronounced against treason by the
law of England t hear this sentence, full of horrours,
represented as flowing from admirable clemency and
moderation.

t War. The. L. Crim. 18.

^ ^ See tfaejr safer death,
But in their deaths reioemher they are mea. Cat^,

I Caligula.

IN THE. CIRCUIT COURT. 585

At the 'trial of the conspirators in the gun powder
plot, Sir Edward Coke concluded the part which he
acted as attorney general, in the following very remarka-
ble manner* *' The conclusion shall be drawn from the
admirable clemency and moderation of the king, in that
howsoever these traitors have exceeded all others their
predecessors in mischief, yet neither will the king
exceed the usual punishment of the law, nor invent any
new torture or torment for them ; but is graciously pleased
to afford them as well an ordinary course of trial, as an
ordinary punishment^ much inferiour to their offence. And
surely, worthy of observation is the punishment provided
and appointed for high treason. For first, after a traitor
hath had his just trial, and is convicted and attainted,
he shall have his judgment to be drawn to the place of
execution frona his prison, as being not worthy any more
to tread upon the face of the earth whereof he is made ;
also for that he hath been retrograde to nature, there-
fore he IS to be drawn backward at a horse tail. And
whereas God hath made the head of man hia highest
and most supreme part, as being his chief grace and
ornament ; he must be drawn with his head declining
downward, and lying so near the ground as may be, being
thought unfit to take the benefi,t of the comnwn air.
For which cause also he shall be strangled, being hanged
up by the neck, between heaven and earth, as deemed
unworthy of both, or either ; as likewise that the eyes
of men may behold, and their hearts contemn him.
Then he is to be cut down alive : his bowels and inlayed
parts taken out and burnt, who inwardly had conceived
and harboured in his heart such horrible treason. After,
to have his head cut off, which had imagined the mis-
chief. And, lastly, his body to be quartered^ atid the
quarters set up in some high and eminent place^ to the

VOL. III. 3 X)

\

385 A CHARGE TO THE GRAKD JVRT

view and detestation of men, and to become vl prey for
the fowls of the air. And this is a rewa(rd due to trai-
tors." j

I relieve your feelings by a custom which was observ-
ed among the Jews. They gave wine mmgled with myrrh
to a criminal at the time of his execution, in order to
produce a stupor, and deaden the sensibility of the
pain.

By the constitution of the United States, no attainder
of treason shall work corruption of blood, or- forfeiture,
except during the life of the person attainted. By the
law of the United States, as it now standi, no judgment
for any offence shall work corruption of blood or for-
feiture of any estate.

In England, the forfeiture of a criminal's personal
estate accrues immediately upon his conviction of treason
or felony. On his attainder for treason^ he forfeits to
the king all his lands of inheritance, and all his rights
of entry to lands and tenements. On his attainder for
fclony^ he forfeits his lands in fee simple to the crown
for a year and a day ; and the king may, within that
time, commit what waste he pleases, by cutting timber,
by ploughing meadows, by extirpating gardens, and by
pulling down houses.

This uncivilized regulation, hostile to the genius of
publick prosperity and improvement, is not, however^
attende.d with any additional misfortune to the children
«f the prisoner. Their ruin is already completed by the

i l.St.Tri.343.

• *

IN THE CIRCUIT CaUR"!^. 387

corruption of their parent's blood. This unnatural prin-
ciple — I call it unnatural, because it dissolves,*as far as
human laws can dissolve, the closest «nd the dearest ties
of nature*^— this unnatural principle effectually intercepts
from them the descent of his lands of inheritance, which,
after the king's temporary right of forfeiture is satisfied,
escheat to the lord of the fee.

Corruption of blood extends both upwards and down-
wards. A person attainted cannot inherit lands from
his ancestors : he cannot transmit them to any heir :
he even obstructs all descents to his posterity, whenever
they must, through him, deduce their right from a
more remote ancestor*

It has be^n alleged, in favour of forfeiture, that,
since its effects extend to the family of the criminal as
well as to himself, it will have a powerful operation to
restrain a person from attempts against the state, not
only by the fear of personal punishment,' but also by his
strongest natural affections. On a farther and closer
investigation, however, it may, perhaps, be found, that
this policy, as certainly it is not of the most generous,
so neither is it of the most enlarged kind ; since forfei-
tures, far from preventing, may have a tendency to
multiply and to perpetuate offences and crimes.

When the law says, that the children of him, who^
has been guilty of crimes, shall be bereaved of all th^r
hopes and all their rights* of succession ; that they 9ftatt
languish in perpetual indigence and distress ; that< their
whole life shall be one dark scene of unintermilted and
unabating punishment ; and that death alone shall pro-
«vide for them a rcfiigeirom their miserj^— ^vhen such is

388 A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY

the language, or such is the e£fect of the law ; with
what sentiments must it naturally inspire those, who
are doomed to become its unfortunate, though unoffend-
ing objects ? With sentiments of a deadly feud against
the state, which has adopted, and which enforces it.
To a law of this kind we may, with peculiar propriety,
apply the n^axim — une loi rigoreuse produit des crimes.

In the United States, a period is assigned, beyond
which crimes and offences^ two excepted, cannot be
prosecuted. This regulation is well calculated to estab-
lish and to preserve the security of individuals, and
the tranquillity of the state. ^^ Si post intervallum ac-
cusare (accusator) velit," says Bracton, " non erit de
jure audiendus, nisi docere poterit se fuisse justis ra-
tionibus impeditum." ^

The advantages of a <?opy of the indictment, of coun-
sel at the trial, and of process to compel the appear-
ance of the prisoner's witnesses are enjoyed, in England)
only in prosecutions for treason, but not in prosecutions
for other crimes. * ^

The greatness of those advantages may be easily
estimated by contemplating the helpless, the forlorn and
the anxious situation of a person, who is deprived of
them in a trial for his life.

' When the bill for regulating trials in cases of high

treckson was, in the reign of William the third, brought

I into parliament ; that part of it, which allows counsel

to the prisoner, was viewed, by the friends of freedom,

^ Brae 118 b.

IN THE CIRCUIT COURT. 389

as a matter of the last importance. The Lord Ashley,
afterwards earl of Shaftesbury and author of the cele-
brated Characteristicks, was then a member of the house
of commons. Actuated by that zeal for the principles of
liberty, which accompanied him through life, he composed,
as he was well qualified to coihpbse, an excellent speech
in support of that important provision. When he rose
to deliver it, the great and respectable audience, before
which he appeared, intimidated him to such a degree,
that he lost his powers of recollection, and was incapable
of pronouncing what he had previously prepared. The
house, eager to hear him, waited with solicitude till
he should recover from his embarrassment, and, after
some time, called loudly upon him to proceed. He pro-
ceeded in this manner: *' If I, sir," — addressing him-
self to the speaker — ^** If I, sir, who rise only to give
my opinion on the bill now depending, am so confounded,
that I am unable to express the least of what I proposed
to say; what must the condition of that man be, who,
without any assistance, is pleading for his life ?" ^ What
mlust his condition be ! Unacquainted with the nature
and with the forms of the whole proceedings against
him, unassisted by counsel, " baited by crown lawyers,'*
distracted by uncertainty and suspense, he finds a des-
perate but an eligible refuge in the awful verdict of con-^
viction, which determines his fate.

Let us turn our eyes to a more pleasing prospect. How
few are the crimes— how few are the capital crimes,
known to the laws of the United States, compared with
those known to the laws of England ! Allowance, we
own, should be made for the difference between the na-

1 Gen. Dkt. voL 9. p. 179.

590 A CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY

ture of the two governments; the objects of one being
general ; those of the other, enumerated. But after
every allowance is made for this consideration, still we
may justly say — ^how few are the crimes — how few are
the capital crimes, known to the laws of the United
States, compared with those known to the laws of En-
l^and ! When Sir William Blackstone wrote, no fewer
than one hundred and sixty actions, which men are daily
liable to commit, crowded the dismal list of felonies
without benefit of clergy ; in other words, felonies de-
clared to be worthy of immediate dearth. Actions, al-
most inumerable, are doomed, by the same system, to
severe, though inferiour penalties.

The co-acervation of sanguinary laws ts a political
distemper of the most inveterate and the most dangerous
kind. By such laws the people are corrupted ; and when
corruption arises from laws the evil may well be pro-
nounced to be ipcurable ; for it proceeds from the very
source, . from which the remedy should flow«

This comparison between the criminal laws of Eng-
land and thoseof the UnitedStates might be carried mucb
£arther* The contrast would become still more and more
striking ; and, of course, the result would become stiB
more dnd more satisfactory*

** How happy would mankind be,*' says the eloquent
and benevolent Beccaria,"* " if laws were now to be
first formed !" The United States enjoy this singulai*
happiness. Their laws are now first formed. They are
formed by the legitimate representatives of free citizens

"Chsp^ae.

IN TfiE CIRCUIT COURT.
and free states. Among those citizens and thpse states
they now begin to be diffused. To those citizens and
those states thcj*^ are objects of the greatest and most
extensive importance. I speak particularly .concerning
the criminal laws. It is on the excellence of the crimi-
nal laws, says the celebrated Montesquieu," that the
liberty of the citizens principally depends. The know-
ledge^ continues he, which has been already Jfcquired in
some countries, and that which may be hereafter ac-
quired in others, with regard to the surest rules which
can be observed in criminal judgments, is more interest-
ing to the human kind, than any thing else in the uni-
verse. It is only, adds he, on the practice of this
knowledge that liberty can be founded.

With regard to an individual, every one knows how
much his fortunes and his character, his infelicity or his
happiness depend on his. education. • What education is
to the individual, the laws are to the community. " Good
laws," says my lord Bacon, whose sentences are dis-
courses, *' make a whole nation to be as a well ordered
college.'* ^ With what earnestness should every nation
—•with what peculiar earnestness should that nation,
which boasts of liberty as the principle of her constitu-
tion — ^with what peculiar earnestness should she endea-
vour, that her laws, especially her criminal laws, should
be improved to a degree of perfection as high as humaa
policy and human virtue can carry them !

We have already seen, that the noblest end and aim
of criminal jurisprudence is to prevent crimes : and we
have already seen that punishments, mild, speedy, and

*Sp.L;l).13.Q.3.

»4.L(lBac« 9.

592 A CHARGE TO THE CRAND JURY

certain, are means calculated for preventing them. But
these are not the only means. Crimes may be prevented
by the genius as well as by the execution of the criminal
laws. Let them be few : let them be clear : let them be
be simple : let them be concise : let them be consummate-
ly accurate. Let the punishment be proportioned — let it
be analogous — to the crime. Let the reformation as
well as the. punishment of offenders be kept constantly
and steadily in view: and, while the dignity of the na-
tion is vindicated, let reparation be made to those, who'
have received injury. Above all, let the wisdom, the
purity, and the benignity of the civil code supersede,
for they are well calculated to supersede, the severity
of criminal legislation. Let the law diffuse peace and
happiness ; and innocence will walk in their train.

I offer no apology, gentlemen, for the nature or the
length of this address., A sense of duty has drawn it
from tne. Every member of society should have it in
his power to know when he is crimipal and when he is
innocent. His criminality and his innocence should be
designated by the laws. The code of criminal laws,
therefore, should, as far as possible, be in the hands of
everv citizen. In the situation, in which I have the
honour to be placed, I deem it my duty to embrace every
proper opportunity of disseminating the knowledge of
them far and speedily. Can this be done with more pro-
priety than in an address to a grand jury — ^to a grand
jury summoned and returned for the body of an exten-
sive district — ^a district so extensive and important as
that of Virginia i These considerations induced me to
lay before you an enumeration of the crimes and the
punishments known to our constitution and laws. This
I have endeavoured to do with the utmost conciseness.

OF THE CIRCtJIT COURT, 393

f

4 *

But, if the laws deserve it, they should be the objects
of affection as well as of knowiedge. Thinking, as I
think, concerning the high degree of regard, to which
the criminal code of the United States has an undoubted
claim, I am obliged to express the principles, on which
I conceive that claim to be founded. This I have like-
wise endeavoured to do with the utmost conciseness* >

I mean not, however, to recommend to you an im-
plicit and an undistinguishing approbation of the laws
of your country. Admire ; but admire with reason on.
your side.

If, for instance, you think, that the laws respecting
the publick securities are more severe than is absolutely
necessary for supporting their value and their credit i it
will be no crime to express your thoughts decently and
properly to your representatives in congress.

Permit me to suggest another method, by which our
valuable code of criminal laws may be still increased in
its value. Inform and practically convince every one
within your respective spheres *of actioi\ and intercourse,
that, as excellent laws improve the virtue of the citizeps,
so the virtue of the citizens has a reciprocal and benign
energy in heightening the excellence of the law.

How happy are the people, by whom the laws are
known and rationally beloved! The rational love o&the
laws generates the enlightened love of our coi^ntry. The
enlightened love of our country is propitious to eveiy
virtue, which can adorn and exalt the citizen and the
man.

TOt. III. 3 E

CONSroERATIONS

ON THE

BANK OF NORTH AMERICA.

PUBLISHED IN THE TEAR 178S.

CONSIDERATIONS, &c.

xjlN attack is made on the credit and institution of the .
Bank of North America. Whether this attack is justified
by the principles of law and sound policy, is a natural sub^
ject of inquiry. The inquiry is as necessary and interest*
iilg, as it is natural : for, though some people represent
the bank as injurious and dangerous, while others consider
it as salutary and beneficial to the community, all view it
as an object of high importance ; deserving and demand-
ing the pliblick attention.

In the investigation of this si^bject, it will be requisite
to discuss some great and leading questions concerning
the constitution of the United States, and the relation
which subsists between them .and each particular state in

. ^ The publication o£ these considerations was Occasioned by a
bill, introduced into the legislature of Pennsylvania, to repeal an act
of assembly passed in the year 1783, by which a charter of incorpo-
ration had beengranted to the Bank of North America./ The biU was
passed into a law, in September 1795, Ed,

398 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE '

he Union* Perhaps it is to he wished that this cjliscussion
ad not been rendered necessary ; and that those questions
had rested some time longer among the arcana imperii:
but tl^i^^e now presented to the publick ; and the pub-
lick^^^H|view them with firmness, with impartiality^
and^^^^B the solicitude befitting such a momentous
occasirof^

f

A gentleman,** who had the best opportunities of ob-
serving, and who possesses the best talents for judging
on the subject, informs his fellow citizens officially, that
^^ it may be not only asserted, but demonstrated, that,
*' without the establishment of the national bank, the busi-
*^ ness of the department of finance could not have been
performed" ia the late war.

ii

The millennium is not yet come. War, with all the
horrours and miseries in his train, may revisit us. The
finances may again be deranged : " publick credit may,
^^ ag^in, be at an end : no means may be afforded adequate
**to the publick expenses." Is it wise or politick to de-
prive Our country, in such a situation, of a resource,
which happy experience has shown to be of such essential
importance? Will the citizens of the United States be
encouraged to embark their fortunes on a similar bottom
in a future war, by seeing the vessel, which carried us 30
successfully through the last, thrown aside, like a useless
hulk, upon the return of peace V

' It will not be improper to recal to our remembrance
the origin, the establishment, and the proceedings of the
Bank of North America.

b VidstkefMreAieeto the statement of thesceooBti^oftksUaksd
States.

I

la M^jj 1 781, the »u^rinteBdaivt of fLaaQce laid be-
fore congPCBs a pUm of a bank. On 'the ,a6th ^f ithat
»mofkth, coQgfi096 .passed ^the iidlowing re$0l«tion cah-

' ' » .
*♦ Re9plye4, That coi^itefis do approve of the plan for
establishing a national bank in these United States^sudb-
mitted to their consideration by Mr. Robert Morris, the
fl7th May, l^Sli^and thatihey wiQ pronfi(»te and siopport
<the aaxaie by ^uoh waya md m^aos, from itameto time, ks
'fjOiStf ^pear;neoe$i^ry for the im^l^tkm, taiid oofusftstsnt

mth the pdWfick (good.;

1. • . ' I ' < ■ • ,

A , ■ • • . '. . • ■

■ •

^^ That the aubsiqriber^ torftlne said^ baidc dhtaH-be inoorv
f>fi>ratedt agreeably to t|ke prhiciples a^d tenitsrof isbeiplatH
jU)D4er the name of *^ The Pmmd^t, D^eototp, and.KjOflai**
^any of ^tbe Bank of Nor^ Am^rijea/'iso noon aa sthe
auhsjDiaptioQ sliaU te fiUed, .tiie diarbctors .and ptkisudent
Dheoeii, aild afi|)li€atiofi oK^ade to coBgre^s for ^a£{iuEpose^
byfthb presidiBUt abd dinectors cl^otisd. :

1 *

^^ AejiolVed; Tliafc kJbe reoonimendod M td(ie veJtoBrai
State8,;faiy {proper rlawsnfttr that ^urpoaevto provide thatMio
other' bank ttc bankers shall lie .esliabUshtsd or permitted
urithin the. said states i-espectii^ely d^rfa^'tkcirai:.

'' fiesolred, rThat the notes .henaf j[6r to be iksaed by
the said bapk, paj^ble on demandVshaU he receinrabJeiin
payment of aU taxes;, duties, and debts, .due orrthat ma.^
beqpme«due>orpayableto^e United Sitates«^ uj-^

•■ ! • , 'I

^Miesc^Ted, timt odngvcBs ^iU rrefionraieiul :tb tbe
several legislatures to pass laws, making it felony without
benefit of clergy, <br ^ny pielrson to 'counterfeit bank

400 CONSIDERATIONS ON TBC

notes, or to pass such notes, knowing them to be coun-
terfeit ; also making it felony without benefit of clergy,
for any president, inspector, director, officcx, or servant
of the bank, to convert any of the property, money, or
credit of the said bank to his own use, or in any other
way to be guilty of fraud or embezzlement, as officers
or servants of the bank." . ^

Under these resolutions a subscription was^opened for
the national bank : this subscription was not confined to
JPennyslvama : the citizens of other States trusted their
property to the publick faith; and before the end of De-
cember, 1781, the subscription was filled, ^^ from an
-expectation of a charter of incorporation from congress."
Application was made to congress by the president and
directors, then chosen, for an act of ' incorporation.
*' The exigencies of the United States rendered it indis-
pensably necessary that such an act sMould be immediate*
ly passcd."<^ Congress, at the same time that they passed
the act of incorporation, recommended to the legislature
of each state, to pass such laws as they might judge ne>
cessary for giving iu ordinance its fiill operation, agreea-
bly to the true intent and meamng thereof, and accord-
ing to the recommendations contained in the resolution
of the 26th day of May preceding. >

The bank immediately commenced its operations. Its
seeds were snisdl, but they were vigorous. The sums
p^d in by individuals upon their subscriptions did not
amount in the whoild^ to seveiUy thousand dollars* The
sum invested by the United States, in bank stock, amount-
ed to something more than two hundred and fifty thou-

« Seethe act in the appendix.

BANK OF NORTH AMERICA. 401

sand dollars : but this sum' may be said to have been
paid ill with one hand and borrowed with the other ;
and before the end of the first three months, farther
sums were advanced to the United States, and an ad«
vance was made to this state. Besides, numerous ac«
commodations were afforded to individuals. Litde was
it then imagined that the bank would ever be represented
as unfriendly to circulation. It was viewed as the
source and as the support of credit, both private and
publick : as such, it was hated and dreaded by the ene-
mies of the United States : as such, it was loved and
fostered by their friends. ,

Pennsylvania^ distinguished on numerous occasions
by her faithful and affectionate attachment to federal
principles, embraced, in the first session of her legisla-
ture after the establishment of the bank, the opportunity
of testifying her approbation of an act, which had been
found to be indispensably necessary. Harmonizing with
the sentiments and recommendations of the United States,
the assembly passed an act, ^ " for preventing and pu-
nishing the counterfeiting of the common seal, bank bills,
and bank notes, of the president, directors, and company
of the Bank of North America." In the preamble to this
act, which, according to the constitution of this state,
expresses the reasons and motives for passing it, the " ne-
cessity" of taking " effectual measures for preventing
and punishing frauds and cheats which may be put%pon
the president, directors, and company of the Bank of
North America," is explicitly declared by the legisla-
ture.

I

^ See in the appen^x the difierent sums advanced to this state.

• l«th of March, 1782.
vol. HI, 3 r

402 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE

The sentiments and conduct of other states, respect-
ing the establishment of the national bank by congress,
were similar to those of Pennsylvania. The general as-
sembly of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations'
made it felony, without benefit of clergy, *' to counter-
feit any note or notes issued, or to be issued, from the
Bank of North America, as approved and established
by the United States in Congress assembled." The state
of Connecticut enacted, ^ that a tax should be laid, payable
in money, or ^^ notes issued by the directors of the na-
tional bank, established by an ordinance of the United
States in congress assembled." By a law of Massachus*
setts, the subscribers to the national bank, approved of by
the United States, were ^incorporated, on the. behalf of
that commonwealth, by the name of the president, di-
rectors and company of the Bank of- North America,
according to the terms of the ordinance to incorporate
the said subscribers, passed by the United States in
congress assembled on the thirty first day of December,
IfSl." The same law further enacts, ^^ that all notes
or bills, which have been or shall be issued by, for, or
In the name of the said president, directors, and com-
pany, and payable on demand, shall be receivable in
the payment of all taxes, debts and duties, due or that
nay become due, or payable to, or for account of, the
emid United Stales." In the preamble of this law, the
legislature declares that ^^ a national bank is of great ser-
vic4^ as well to the publick as to individuals."

The president and directors of the bank had a deli-
cate and a difficult part to act. On one hand, they were
obliged to guard against the malice and exertions of their

'January Sesnoos, 1783. f lOth Jaaiuuyi ITBX

BANK OF NORTH AMERICA* 40S

•

enemies: on the other, it was incumbent on them to
sooth the timidit)' of some of their friends* The credit
of a bank, as well as all other credit, depends on opi-
nion* Opinion, whether well or ill ibunded, produces,
in each case, the same effects upon conduct. Some
thought that an act of incorporation from the legislature
of this state would ^e beneficial ; none apprehended that
it could ever be hurtful to the national bank. Prudence,
therefore, and a disposition, very natural in that season
of doubt and diffidence, to gratify the sentiments, and
even the prejudices, of such as might become sub*
scribers or customers to the bank, directed an application
to the asisembly for ^^ a charter, similar to that granted
by the United States in congress assembled." But though
the directors were willing to avail themselves of encou>
ragement from every quarter, they meant not to relin-
quish any of their rights, or to change the foundation
on which they rested. They made their application in*
their corporate character. ^ They expressly mentioned to
the assembly, that the United States in congress assem-
bled had granted to the bank a charter of incorporation,
and that the institution was to be carried on under their
immediate auspices. The legislature thought that it was
proper and reasonable to grant ' the request of the pre*
sident and directors of the Bank of North America; and
assigned, as a reason for the act, ^^ that the United States
in congress assembled, from a conviction of the support
which the finances of the United States would receive
from the establishment of a national baniy passed an or-
dinance to incorporate the subscribers for this purpose,

^ Their letter to the president of the supreme executive coun-
cil, on this occaaon, u in the appendix.

> 1st of April, 1782.

404 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE

by the name and style of the president, directors, and
company of the Bank of North America."

The first clause of the law enacts, that ** those who
are, and those who shall become subscribers to the said
bank, be, and forever hereafter shall be, a corporation
and body politick, to all intents and purposes."

It is further enacted, that " the said corporation be,
and shall be forever hereafter^ able and capable in law
to do and execute all and singular matters and things*
that to them shall or may appertain to do."

To show, in the most striking light, the kind senti-
ntents of the legislature towards the institution, it is fur-
ther enacted, that " this act shall be cfonstrued and taken
most favoui^alily and beneficially for the said corpora-
*tion."

On these facts and proceedings, two questions of
much national importance present themselves to our
view and examination.

' • ' '^

I. Is the Bank 6f North America legally and consti-
tutionally instituted and organized, by the charter of in-
corporation granted by the United States in congress
assembled ?

II. Would it be wise or politick in the legislature of
Pennsylvania, to revoke the charter which it has granted
to the iiistitution?

The discussion of these two questions will naturally
lead us to the pnoper conclusions concerning the validity
and the utility of the bank.

BANS ^T NORTH AMERICA. 405

I. Had the United States in cpn^ess assembled a
legal and constitutional power to institute and organize the
Bank of North America, by a charter of incorporation ?

The objection^ under this head, will be — ^that the -a
articles of cotifederation express all the powers of con-
gress, that in those articles no power is delegated to that
body to grant charters of incorporation, and that, there*
fore, congress possess no such power.

It is true, that, by the second article of the confede*
ration, ^^ each state retains its sovereignty, freedom and
independence, and every power, jurisdiction, and right,
which is not, by the confederation, expressly delegated
to the United States in congress assembled."

If, then, any or each of the states possessed, previous
to the confederation, a power, jurisdiction, or right, to
institute and organize, by a charter of incorporation, a -
bank for North America i in other words-i^^-commensu*
rate to the United Stdtes $ such power, jurisdiction, and .
right, unless expressly delegated to congress, cannot be
legally* or constitutionally exercised by that body.

But, we presume, it will not be contended, that any
or each of the states could exercise any power or aiDt of ,
sovereignty extending over all the other states, or any of
them ; or, in other words, incorporate a bank, commen-
surate to the United States*

The consequence is, that this is not an act of sove-
reignty, or a power, jurisdiction, or right, which, by the
second article of the confederation, must be expressly

406 CONSIDERATIONS ON T&E
delegated to congress, in order to be possessed by that
body.

If, however, any person shall contend that any or each
of the states can exercise such an extensive power or act
of sovereignty as that above mentioned ; to such person
we give this answer — The state of Massachussetts has
exercised such power and act : Jt has incorporated the
Bank of North America. But to pursue my argument.

' Though the United States in congress assembled
derive from the particular states no power, juristdiction,
or right, which is not expressly delegated by the confe>
delation, it does not thence follow, that, the United
States in cohgress have no other powers, jurisdiction,
or rights, than those delegated by the particular states.

The United States have general rights, goieral pow-
ers, and general obligations, not derived from any par-
ticular states, nor from all the particular states, taken
separately ^ but resulting from the union of the whole :
and, therefore, it is provided, in the fifth article of the
confederatiooi, ^* that for die more convenient manage-
X ** ment of the general interests of the United States,
^ delegates shall be annually appointed to meet in con-
•* gress."

To many purposes, the United States are to be con-
sidered as one undivided, independent nation ; and as
possessed of all the rights, and powers, and properties^
by the law of nations incident to such.

Whenever an object occurs, to the direction of which
no particular state is competent, the management of it

BANK OF NORTH AMERICA.
nust, of necessity, belong, to the United States in con-
gress assembled. There are many objects of this extend-
ed nature. The purchase, the sale, the defence, and
the government of lands and countries, not within any
state, are all included under this description. An
institution for circulating paper, and establishing its
credit over the whole United States, is naturally ranged
in the same class.

■ III

The act of independence was made before the articles
of confederation. This act declares, that " these^ United
Colonies^'^ (not enumerating them separately) " are
free and independent states; and that, as free and inde-
pendent states, they have full power to do all acts and
things which independent states may, of right, do."

The confederation was not intended to weaken or
abridge the powers and rights, to which the United
States were previously entitled. It was not intended
to transfer any of those powers or rights to the particular
states, of any of them. If, therefore, the power now in
question was vested in the United States before the
confederation ; it continues vested in them still. The
confederation clothed the United States with many
though, perhaps, not with sufficient powers : but of none
did it disrobe them.

It is no new position, that rights may be vested in a
political body, which did not previously reside in any or
in all the members of that body.^ They may be derived
solely from the union of those members. J " The case,'*
says the xelebrated Burlamaqui, " is here very near the

I

J 3. BurL 43.

408 CONBIDKRATIONS ON THE

*^ same as in that of several voices' collected together^
^ which, by their union, produce a harmony, that was
^ not to be found separately in eacht"

A number of unconnected inhabitants are settled on
each side ^of a navigable river ; it belongs to none of
them ; it belongs not to them all, for they have nothing
in common : let them unite ; the river is the property of
the united body.

The arguments drawn from the political associations
of individuals into a state will apply, with equal force
and propriety, to a nun^ber of states united by a confe-
^deracy.

New states must be formed and established : their
extent and boundaries must be regulated and ascertained.
How can this be done, unless by the United States in
congress assembled?

States are corporations or bodies politick of the most
important and dignified kind.

Let us now concentre the foregoing observations, and
apply them to the incorporation of the Bank of North
America by congress.

By the civil law, corporations seem to have been
created by the mere and voluntary association of thehr
members^ provided such convention was not contrary to
law. '

k l.BLCoHL4r3.

BANK OF NORTH AMERICA,
By the common law, something more is necessary —
All the methods whefeby corporations exist are, for the
most 4>art, reducible to that of the king's letters patents
or charter of incoq)oration. ^

From thi» it will appear that the creation of a corpo.
ration is, by the common law, considered as the act of
the executive rather than of the^ legislative ppwers of
governments

Before the revolution, charters of incorporation were
granted by the proprietaries of Pennsylvania, under a
derivative authority from the crown, and those charters
have been recognised by the constitution' and laws of the
commonwealth since the revolution.

.From analogy, therefore, we may justly infer, that
the United States in confess assembled, possessing the
executive powers of the union, may, in virtue of such
powers, graiit charters of incorporation for accomplishing
objects that comprehend ^ the general interests of the
United States.

But the United States in congress assembled possess,
in many instances, and to many purposes, the legislative
as well as the executive powers of the union ; and there-
fore, whether we consider the incorporation of the bank
as a law, or as a charter, it will be equally within the
powers of congress: for the object of this institution
could not be reached without the exertion of the combined
sovereignty of the union.

VOL* III.

1 l.BL Com. 472.473.
3 G

I I

410 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE

I have a^ked — how can new states, which are bodies
politick, be formed, unless by the United States in con^
gress assembled ? Fact, as well as argument, justifies
my sentiments on this subject. The conduct of con.
gress has been similar on similar occasions. The
same principles have directed the exercise of the same
powers. ;

In the month of April, 17^84, congress resolved, that
part of the western territory ^' should be divided into
distinct states."

They further resolved, that the settlers should, ^^ either
on their own petition, or on the order of congress, receive
authority from them to. meet together, for the purpose
of establishing a temporary government, to adopt the con-
stitution and laws of any one of the original states."

*^ When- any such state shall have acquired twenty
thousand free inhabitants, on giving due proof thereof
to congress, they shall receive from, them authority to
call a convention of representatives, to establish a per*'
manent constitution and government for themselves."

** The preceding J articles," among othi^rs, " shall bo
formed into, a charter of compact ; shall be duly execu-^
ted by the president of the United States in congress
assembled, under his hand and the seal of the United
States ; shall be promulgated ; and shall stand as funda.
mental constitutions between the thirteen original states,
and each of the several states now newly described^
unalterable from and after the sale of any part of the
territory of such state, but by the joint consent of the
United States in coogressc assembled, and of the parti-

JRAKX OF NO^TH AMERICA. 411

f
\

tular state within which such alteration is proposed to
be made."

It will be difficult, I believe, to urge against the power
of congress to grant a charter to the .Bank of North
America, any argument, which may not, with equal
strength and fitness, be urged against the power of that
body to form, execute, and promulgate a. charter of
compact for the neiV^ states.

r *

I , " *

The sentiments of the representatives of the United
States, as to their power of incorporating the , bank,
ought to have much Weight with us. Their sentiments
are strongly marked by their conduct, in their first reso«
lutions respecting the bank. These resolutions are made
at the same time, and on the same subject : but there is
a striking difference in their manner. It was thought
proper " that no other bank should be permitted within
any of the states, during the war." Congress " recom-
mended to the several states to make prevision, for that
purpose, by proper laws." It was ^thought prudent that
the 1;>ank should be protected, by p^nal laws, from fraud)
embezzlement, and forgery. Congress recommended it
to the several legislatures to pass such laws. It was deemed
expedient that bank notes should be received in payment
of sums payable to the United States : congress resolve^
that the notes " shall be receivable" in such payments^
It was judged necessary that the bank should have a char-
ter of incorporation : xcongress resolve^ that the bank
*' shall be incorporated," on application made " to con-
gress^ for that purpose. The line of distinction between
those things in which congress could only recommend,
and those in which they could act, is drawn in the
clearest mannen The incorporation of the national

41S GOK8IX>£RATlOKS OK TH£

I

bank is ranked among those things, in which they could

act

This act of congress has, either expressly, or by im-
plication, received the approbation of every state in the
union. It was officially^ anhounced to eveiy state by the
siiperintendant of finance. " Had axiy ofae state consi-
dered it as an exercise of usurped power, wofild not
that state have remonstrated against it ? But there is no
such remonstrance.

. This act of congress has been most explicitly recog«
nised by. the legislature of Pennsylvania. The law for
preventing and punishing frauds and cheats. upon the
bank was passed on the 18tb of March, 1782, and
before the bank had obtained a charter from this state.
By that law it is made felony without benefit of clergyj
to forge the dbmmon seal of the president J directors, and
company of the Bank, of North America. Who were
the president, directors, and company of the Bank of
North America? Those whom congress had made " a
corporation and body politick, to aU intends and purposes,
by that name and style." How came that body by a
" common seal ?" The act of congress ordained that
that body ** should have full power and authority to
make, h^ve and use a common seal." In the act to
incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of North' Ame-
rica, the legislature, after reciting that the United
States in congress assembled bad ^^ passed an ordinance
to incorporate them," say, " the president and directors
of the said bank have applied to this house for a similar
act of incorporation, which request it is proper and rea-
sonable to grant."

^ See his letter in the appendix.

y

BAKK 07 KORTH AMZKICA. 413

When the foregoing facts and arguments are conai*
dered, compared, and weighed, they will, it is hoped,
evince and establish, satisfactorily to all, and conclusively
on the legislature of Pennsylvania, the truth of this posi*
tion*— — That the Bank of North America was legally
and constitutionally instituted and organized, by.the char-
ter of incorporation granted by the United States in con*
gress assembled.

^ II. Would it, then, be wise or politick in the legisla*
ture of Pennsylvania, to revoke the charter which it has
granted to this institution ? It would not be wise or po-
litick:

1st. Because the proceeding would be nugatory. The
recal of the charter of Pennsylvania would not repeal
that of the United States, by which we have proved the
bank to be legally and constitutionally instituted and
organized.

2d< Because, though the legislature may destroy the
legislative operation^ yet it cannot undo the legislative acm
knowledgment of its own act. Though a statute be repeal-
ed, yet it shows the sense and opinion of the legislature
concerning the subject of it, in the same manner as if it
continued in force. "^ The legislature declared, in the
law, that it was proper and reasonable to grant the request
of the president and directors of the bank, for an act of
incorporation similar to the ordinance of congress : no
repeal of the law can weaken the force of that declaration.

3d. Because sucti a proceeding would wound that
confidence in the engagements of government, which it

n Foster, 394.

414 CONSIDERATIONS ON TH2

is so much the interest and duty of every state to encou-
rage and reward. The act in question formed a charter
of compact between the legislature of this state, and the
president, directors, and company of the Bank of North
America. The latter asked for nothing but 'what was
proper and reasonable : the former granted nothing but
what ^was proper and reasonable ; the terms of the com*
pact were, therefore, fair and honest: while these terms
are observed on one side, the compact cannot, consist-
ently with the rules of good faith^ be departed from on
the other* ;

It may be asked-— Has not the state power over her own
laws ? — May she not alter, amend, extend, restrain, and
repeal them at her pleasure I

I am far from opposing the legislative authority of the

state : but it must be observed, that, according to the

practice of the legislature, publick acts of "^try different

kinds are drawn and promulgated under the same form«

A law to ^ vest or qonfirm an estate in an individual — %

law to incorporate a congregation or other society — ^a law

respecting the rights and properties of all the citizens of

the state-1— are all parsed in the same manner ; are all

clothed in the sanie dress of legislative formality ; and

are all equally acts of the representatives of the freemen

of the commonwealth« But surely it will not be pretend*

ed, that, after laws of those different kinds are passed,

the legislature possesses over each the same discretionary

power of repea}.. In a law respecting the rigbt3 and pro-

pertiesof all the citizens of the state, this power may be

safely exercised by the legislature. Why ? Because, in

this case, the interest of those who make the law (the

members of assembly and their constituents) and the

BAKK 07 NORTH AMERICA.
interest of those who are to be affected by the law (the
members pf assembly and their constituents) is the same-
It is a common cause, and may, therefore, be safely trusted
to the representatives of the community.. None can hurt
another, without, at the same time, hurting himself. Very
different is the case with regard to a law, by which the
state grants privileges to a congregation or other society.
Here two parties are instituted, and two distinct interests
subsist. Rules of justice, of faith, and of honour mu8t»
therefore, be established between them : fdr, if interest
alone is to be viewed, the congregation or society must
always lie at the mercy of the community. Still more
different is the case with regard to a Jaw, by which an
estate is vested or conirmed in an indiyidual: if, in this*
ease, the legislature may, at discretion, and without any
reason assigned, devest or destroy his estate, then a per-
son seized of an estata in fee simple, under legislaMve
sanction, is, in truth, nothing more than a solemn tenant
at will.

" For these reasons, whenever the objects and .makersr
of an instrument, passed under the form of a law, are^
not the same, it is to be considered as a compact, and ta
be intei^preted according to the rules and maxims, by
which compacts are governed. A foreigner is natura^^
lized by law : is he a citizen only during pleasure ? He
is no more, if, without any cause of forfeiture assigned
and established, the law, by which he is naturalized, may
at pleasure be repealed. To receive the legislative stamp
of stability and permanency, acts of incorporation are ap-
plied for from the legislature. If these acts may be
repealed without notice, without accusation, without hear^
ing, without proof, without forfeiture ; where is the stamp
^f their stability i Their motto should be^ ^^ Levity.'^

416 CONSIDEAATIOKfi OK THE

If the act for incorporating the subscribers to the Bank
of NcMth America shall he repealed in this manner, a
precedent will be established for repealing, in the same
manner, every other legislative charter in Pennsylvania.
A pretence, as specious as any that can be alleged on
this occasion, will never be wanting on ahy future occa-^
sion. Those acts of the state, which have hitherto been
considered as the sure anchors of privilege and of pro*
perty, will become the sport of every varying gust of
politicks, and will float wildly backwards and forwards
on the irregular and impetuous tides c^ party and faction.

4th. It would not be wise or politick to repeal the
charter granted by thi^ state to the Bank of North Atne-
rica, because such a measure would operate, as far as it
would have any operation, agsunst the credit of the United
States, on which the interest of this commonwealth and
her citizens so essentially depends. This institution ori-
ginated under the auspices of the United States : the
subscription to the national bank was opened under the
recommendations and the engagements of congress:
citizens of this «tate, and of the odier states, and foreign-
ers have become stockholders, on the publick faith : the
United States have pledged themselves ^^ to promote and
^^ support the institution by such ways and means, from
^' time to time, as may appear necessary for it; and con-
"sistent with the publick good.*'** They have recom-
mended to the legislature of each state, ^^ to pass such
^' laws as they might judge necessary for giving the ordi-
^^ nance incorporating the bank its full operation." Penn-
sylvania has entered fully into the views, the recommcB*
dationS) and the measures of congress respecting die bank*

« 36llilisy, 1781.

BANK Of NORTH AMERICA. 4.1 f

She has dechired in the strongest manner her sensp of
their propriety, their reasonableness, and their necessity :
she has passed laws for giving them their full operation*
Will it redound to the credit of the United States to adopt
and pursue a contrary system of conduct ? The acts and
recommendations of congress subsist still in all their ori-
ginal force ; will it not have a tendency to shake §11 con-
fidence in the councils and proceedings of the United
States, if those acts and recommendations are now dis*-
regarded, without any reason shown for disregarding
them i What iilfiuence will such a proceeding have upon
the opinions and sentiments of the citizens of the United
States and of foreigners ? In one year they see measures
respecting an object of confessed publick importance
adopted and recommended with ardour by congress ; and
the views and wishes of that body zealously pursued by
Pennsylvania : in another year they see those very mea-
sures, without any apparent reason for the change, warmly
reprobated by that state : they must conclude one of two
things :— that congress adopted and recommended those
measures hastily and without consideration ^ or that Penn-
sylvania has reprobated them undutifuUy and disrespect-
fully- The former conclusion will give rise to very unfa-
iFourable reflections concerniug the discernment both of
the state and of the United States : the latter will suggest
very inauspicious sentiments concerning the federal dis-
position and character of this commonwealth. The result
of the conclusion will be — that the United States do not
deserve, or that they will not receive, support in their
system of finance. — These deductions and inferenc^es will
have particular weight, as tl^ey will be grounded on the
conduct of Pennsylvania, hitherto one of the rao«t federal,
'active, and affectionate states in the Union.

WOU III. 3 R

418 CONSIDERATIONS ON THB

*5th. It would not be wise or politick in the legislature
to repeal their charter to the bank ; because the tendency
of such a step would be to deprive this state and the
United States of all the advantages^ publick and private,
which would flow from the institution^ in times of war,
and in times of peace.

Let us turn our attention to some of the most mate- ^
rial advantages resulting from a bank.

1st. It increases circulation, and invigorates industry.
" It is not," says Dr. Smith, in his Treatise on the
Wealth of Nations, p ^' by augmenting the capital of the
country, but by rendering a greater part of that capital
active and productive than would otherwise be so, that
the most judicious operations of banking can increase
the industry of the country. The part of his capital
which a dealer is obliged to k«ep by him unemployed,
and in ready money, for answering occasional demands,
is so much dead stock, which, so long as it remains in
this situation, produces nothing either to him or to his
country. The judicious operations of banking enable
him to convert this dead stock into active and productive
stock I into materials to work upon, into tools to work
with, and into provisions and subsistence to work for ;
into stock which produces something both to himself and
to his country. The gold and silver money which circu-
lates in any country, and by means of which the pro*
duce of its land and labour is annually circulated and
distributed to the proper consumers, . is, in the same
manner as the ready money of the dealer, all dead stock..,
It is a very valuable part of the capital of the country^

pVoLI. p. 483^ 484.

HAHK OF NOKTH AMERICA. 419

wliich produces nothing to the country. The judicious
operations of banking, by substituting paper in the room
of a great part of this gold and silver, enables the country
to convert a great part of this dead stock into active and
productive stock ; into stock which produces something
to the country. The gold and silver money which cir-
culates in any country may very properly be compared
to a highway, which, while it circulates and carries to
market all the grass and corn of the country, produces^
itself^ not a single pile of either. The judicious opera-
tions of banking, by providing, if I may be allowed so
violent a metaphor, a sort of wagon-way through the
air, enable the country to convert, as it were, a great
part of its highways into good pasture and com fields,
and thereby to increase very considerably the annual pro-
duce of its land and labour."

The same sensible writer informs us, in another place,
that ** the ^ substitution of paper in the room of gold
and silver money, replaces- a very e^cpensive instrument
of commerce with one much less costly, and sometimes
. equally convenient. Circulation comes to be carried on
by a new wheel, which it costs less both to erect and to
maintain than the old one. — There are several sorts of
papef money; but the circulating notes of banks and
bankers is the species^ which is best, known^ and which
seems best adapted for this purpose."-—" These notes
come to have the same currency as gold and silver mo-
ney, from the confidence that such money can at any
time be had for them."

Sir James Stewart calls banking " the great engine, r
^y which domestick circulation is carried on."

« VoL 1. p. 434, 43if. ' 2. PoL Ec. 350.

420 COKSIDXRATIOKS ON THE

To have a free, easy, and equable instroment of cir-
culation is of much importance in all countries : it is of
peculiar importance in young and flourishing countries,
in which the demands for credit, and the rewards of in-
dustry, are greater than in any other. When we view
the extent and situation of the United States, we shall be
satisfied that their inhabitants may, for a long time to
come, employ profitably, in the improvement of their
lands, a greater stock than they will be able easily to
procure. In such a situation, it will sdwaj s be of great
service to them to save as much as possible the expense of
so costly an instrument of commerce as gold and silver,
to substitute in its place one cheaper, and, for many pur-
poses, not less convenient ; and to convert the value of
the gold and silver into the labour and the materials
necessary for improving and extending their settlements
and plantations.

** To the banks ofScotland," says Sir James Stewart,*
** the improvement of that country is entirely owing ; and
until they are generally established in other countries of
Europe, where trade and industry are little known, it
Will be very difficult to set those great engines to work,'*

2d* The influence of a bank on cfedit is no less salu-
tary than its influeiice on circulation* This position is,
indeed, litde more than a corollary from the former.
Credit is confidence ; and, before we can place confi-
dence in a payment, we must be convinced that he
who is to make it will be both able and willing to do so
at the time stipulated. However unexceptioi^ble his
character and fortune may be, this conviction can never

» 2.Pol.£c.356.

BAXK or 1«0RTH AMEHTCA; 4S1

take place, unless in a country where solid property cat!
be, at any time, turned into a' cir(nilattng medium*

i3d. Trade, as well as circulation and credit, derives
great support and assist^mce from a bank. Credit and
circulation produce punctusdity ; and punctuality is the
soul of commerce* Let us appeal to experience as well
as reason* '

Dr. Smith Isays, ' he has heard it asserted, that the
&ade of the city of Glasgow doubled in about fifteen
years after the first erection of the banks there ; and that
the trade of Scotland has more than quadrupled since
the first erection of the two publick banks at Edinburgh^
of which one was established in 1695, and the other in
irsr. Whether the increase has been in so great a^
proportion, the author pretends not to know. But that
the trade of Scotland has increased very considerably
during this period, and that the banks have contributed
a good deal to this increase, cannot, he says, be doubted*

These observations, and observations similar to these,^
have induced Sir James Stewart to conclude,— 'that
** Banking,**^ in the age we live, is that branch of credit
which best deserves the attention of a statesman. Upon
the right establishment of banks depends the prosperity
of trade, and the equable course of circulation. By them
solid property may be melted down. By the nieans of

*

banks, money may be constantly kept at a due propor-
tion to alienation. If alienation incveases^ more pro-
perty may i>e melt^ down. If it diminishes, the
quantity of money stagnating will be absorbed by the

t Vol 1. p. 442. • S. F^Ec 35t.

4M< eoirsiDERATiONt oi^ Tits

bank, and part of the property formerlf melted dowM
in the securities granted *to them will bei^ as it were,
consolidated anew. These must pay, for the country,
the balance of their trade with foreign nations : these
I^eep the mints at work : and it is.by these means, prin-
cipally, that private, mercantile, and publick credit i»
supported."

I make no apology for the number and length of the
quotations here used. They are from writers of. great
information, profound judgment, and unquestioned can-
dour. They appear strictly and strongly applicable to
my subject : and being so, should carry with them the
greatest weight and influence ; for the sentiments, which
they contain and inculcate, must be considered as result-
ing from general principles and facts, and not as calcu-
lated for any partial purpose in this commonwealth.

But, here, it will probably be asked-— Has your rea-
soning been verified by experience in this country ? What
advantages have resulted from the bank to commerce,
circulation, and credit ? Was our trade ever on such an
undesirable footing? Is notth^ country distressed by the
want of a circulating medium i Is not credit almost to-
tally destroyed ?

I answer — There is, unfortunately, too much trutk
in the representation : but if events are properly distin-
guished, and traced to their causes, it will be found-
that none pf the inconveniences abovementioned have
arisen from the bank — ^that seme of them have proceeded ,
at least in part, from the opposition which has been given
to it — and that, as to others, its energy has not bees
sufficient to counteract or control them.

BANK OF NORTU A]M[£RICA. 42S

The disagreeable stdte of our. commerce has been. the
effect of extravagant and injudicipus importation... Du-
ring the war, our ports were in a great measure blocked up*
Imported articles were scarce and dear ; and we felt thu^
disadvantages of a stagnation in business. Extremes
frequently introduce one another. When hostilitiiefl
ceased, the floodgates of commerce were opened ; atkd
an inundation of foreign manufactures overflowed, .the
United States : we seemed to have forgot, that to jpajr
was as necessary ip tfade sis to puvch{(se; ai9d'.wt;.:obseni?
ed nO] proportion betwreen our imports, and oilr pi:odacb
and othef natural pi^ea.ns of remittance. ..What wasthci
consequence ? Those who made any payments* made
them chiefly in specie ; ^nd in that way dimmishedvpuf
circulation. Others m^de np reinittances. at i^II, aiul
thereby injured our credit. This account of what hap*^
pened between the European merchants and our impor-
ters, corresponds exactly with what happened between
our importers and the retailers spread over the difiereitt
parts of the. United States. The retailers, if they paid
at ally paid in specie : and thus every operation, foreign
and domestick, had an injurious effect on our credit, our
circulation, and our commerce. But are any of these
disadvantages to be ascribed to the«bank? No. Is it .to
be accounted a fault or defect in the bank, that it did
not prevent or remedy those disadvantages? By no means..
Because one is not able to stem^a torrent* is he there*
fore to be charged with augmenting its strength ? The
bank has had many difliculties to encounter. The expe-
riment was a new one in this country : it was therefore
necessary that it should be conducted . with caution »
While the war continued, the demands of the puUick
were great, and the stock of the bank was but inconsi-
derable ; it had its active enemies^ and its timid friends*

I

/'

4S4 COfKSlDBRATIONfl ON THE

' Soon after the peace was concluded, its operations were
restrained and embarrassed by an attempt to establish a
new bank. A year had not elapsed after this, when the
measure, which has occasioned these considerations, was
introduced into the legislature, and caused, ft>r some time,
a total stagnation in the business of the institution. When
all these circumstances are recollected and attended to,
it will be matter of surprise that the bank has done so
much, and not that it has done no more. Let it be
deemed, as it ought to be, the object of publick confi«
deoce, and not of publick jealousy : let it be encouraged,
in&tead of being opposed, by the counsels and proceed-
ings of the state : then will the genuine effects of the
institution appear; then will they spread their auspi-
uous influence over agriculture, maniifactures, and com-
merce*

4th* Another advantage to be expected from the
Bank of North America is, the establishment of an unde-
preciating paper currency through the United States*
This is an object of great consequence, whether it be
considered in a political, or in a commercial view. It
will be found to have a happy effect on the coUeetion^
\ the distribution, and the management of the publick
revenue : it will remove the inconveniences and fluctua-
tion attending exchange and remittances between the
different states. " It- is the interest of every trading
state to have a sufficient quantity of paper, well secured,
to circulate through it, so as to facilitate payments every
where, and to cut c^ inland exchanges, which are ft
great dog upon trade, and are attended with the risk
of receiving the psqper of people, whose credit is bat
doiihtfuL"''

>3.PdLEc415.

BANK OF NORTH AMERICA. 425

Such are the advantages which may be expected to
flow from a national bank, in times'of peace. In times
of war, the institution may be considered as essential.
We have seen that, without it, the business of the depart^
ment of finance could not have been carried on in the
late war. It will be of use to recollect the situation of
the United States with regard to this subject. The two
or three first years of the war were sufiicient to convince
the British government, and the British armies, that
they could not subdue the United States by military
force. Their hopes of success rested on the failure of
our finances. This was the source of our fears, as well as
of the hopes of our enemies. By this thread our fate
was suspended. We watched it with anxiety : we saw it
stretched and weakened every hour; the deathful instru-
ment was ready to fall upon our heads : on our heads
it must have fallen, had not publick credit, in the moment
when it was about to break asunder, been entwined and
supported by the credit of the bank. Congress, to speak
without metaphors, had not money or credit to hire an
express, or purchase a cord of wood. General Wash-
ington, on one occasion, and probably more than one,
saw his army litt^rally unable to march. Our distress
was such, that it would have been destruction to have
divulged it : but it ought to be known now ; and when
known, ought»to have its proper influence gn the publick
mind and the publick conduct.

The expenses of a war must be defrayed, eithe r
1st, by treasures previously accumulatedrr — or 2dly,
by supplies levied and collected within the year, as they
are called for or 3dly, by the anticipation of the pub-

VOL. III. 3 I

426 CONSIDERATIONS ON THE

lick rC/Venues. No one will venture to refer us to the
first mode. To the second the United States, as well
as every state in Europe, are rendered incompetent by
the modem system of war, which, in the military ope-
rations of one year, concentres the revenue of many.
While our enemies adhere to this system, we must
adopt it. The anticipation of revenue, then. Is the only
mode, by which the expenses of a future war can be
defrayed. How the revenues of the United States can
be anticipated without the operations of a national bank,
I leave to those who attack the Bank of North America
to show. They ought to be well prepared to show it;
for they must know, that to be incapable of supporting a
war is but a single step from being involved in one.

The result of the whole, under this head, is, — ^ihat
In times of peace, the national bank will be highly
advantageous ; that in times of war, it will be essentially
necessary, to the United States.

I flatter myself, that I have evinced the validity and
the utility of the institution.

It has been surmised, that the design of the legisla.
ture is not to destroy, but to modify, the charter of
the bank ; and that if the directors would assent to
reasonable amendments, the charter, modified, might
continue in force. If this is the case, surely to repeal
the law incorporating the bank is not the proper mode-
of doing the business. The bank was established and
organized under the authority and auspices of congress.
The directors have a trust and duty to discharge to the
United Sutes, and to all t)ie particular states, each of

i

BANK 07 NORTH AMERICA
which has an equal interest in the bank. They could
not have received, from this state, a charter, unless it
had been similar to that granted by congress* Without
the approbation of congress, where all the states are
represented, the directors would not be justified in
agreeing to any alteration of the institution. , If altera-
tions are necessary ; they should be made through the
channel of the United States in congress assembled.

APPENDIX

TO THE

PRECEDING CONSIDERATIONS.

AN ORDINANCE, TO INCORPORATE THE SUBSCRIBERS TO THE

BANK OF NORTH AMERICA.

W HERE AS congress, on the twenty sixth day of May last^
did, from a conviction of th« support which the finances of the
' United States would receive from the establishment of a na-
tional l)ank, approve a plan for such an institution, submitted
to their consideration by Robert Morris, Esq. and now lodged
among the archives of congress, and did engage to promote
the same by the most effectual means : and whereas the sub-
scription thereto is now filUd, from an expectation of a charter
of incorporation from congress, the directors and president are
chosen, and application hath been made to congress, by the
said president and directors, for an act of incorporation : and
whereas the exigencies of the United States render it indispen-
sably necessary that such an act be imniediately passed :

Be it therefore ordained, and it is hereby ordained by the
United States in congress assembled. That those who are, and
those who shall become subscribers to the said bank, be, anil

4SO APPENDIX TO THE

for ever after shall be, a corporation and body politick, to all
intents and purposes, by thd name and style of The President^
Directors and Company of the Bank of North America.

And be it further ordained, That the said corporation are
hereby declared and made able, and capable in law t» have*
purchase, receive, possess, enjoy and retain lands, rents, tene"
ments, hereditaments, goods, chattels, and effects, of what
kind, nature or quality soever, to the amount of ten millions
of Spanish silver milled dollars, and no more, and also to sell)
grant, demise, alien or dispose of the same lands, rents, tene-
ments, hereditaments) goods, chattels and effects.

And be it further ordained, That the said corporation be,
and shall be for ever hereafter, able and capable in law to sue
and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered
untoy defend and be defended, in courts of record, or any other
place whatsoever, and to do and execute all and singular other
matters and things, that to them shall or may appertain to do.

And b« it further ordained. That for the well governing of
the said corporation, and the ordering of their affairs, they
shall have such officers as they shall hereafter direct ojr ap-
pmnt : provided nevertheless, that twelve directors, one of
whom sh;^l be the president of the corporation, be of the
number of their officers.

«

And be it further ordained, That Thomas Willing be the
present president; and that the said Thorny Willing and
Thomas Fitzsimons, John Maxwell Nesbitt, James Wilsoni
Henrf Hill, Samuel Osgood, Cadwalader Morris, Andrew
Caldwell, Samuel Ingles, Samuel Meredith, William Bing-
ham, Timothy Matlack, be the present directors of the said
corporation, and shall so continue until another president and
other directors shall -be chosen, according to the laws and
regnla^^^^s of the said corporatioiu

PRECEDING CONSIDERATIONS. 431

And be it further ordained, That the president and direc.
tors of the said corporation shall be capable of exercising such
power, for the well governing and ordering. ©f the affairs of
the said corporation^, and of holding such occasional meetings
for that purpose, as shall be described, fixed and determined
by the laws, regulations and ordinances of the said corpo*
ration.

And be it further ordained, That the^said corporation may
make, ordain, establish and put in execution, such laws, ordi-
Bances and regulations, as shall seem necessary and convenient
to the government of the said corporation : provided always,
that nothing herein before contained shall be construed to
authorize the said corporation to exercise any powers in any
of the United States, repugnant to the laws or constitution of
such state. And be it further ordained. That the said corpo*
ration shall have full power and authority to make, have, and
use a common seal, with such device and inscription as they
shall think proper, and the same to breaki alter and renew^
at their pleasure.

And be it further ordained. That this ordinance shall be
construed and taken most favourably and beneficially for the '
said corporation.

Done by the United States in congress assembled, the-
thirty first day of December, in the year of our Lord
one thousand seven hundred and eighty one, and in the-
sixth year of our independence.

•
JOHN HANSON, President*.

Attest. Charles Thomson, Secretary.

^

4J2^ APPENDIX TO THE

Office of Finance, January 8, I787r
sia^

I HAVE the honour to transmit herewith an ordinancer
passed by the United States in congress assembled the 31st
day of December, 1781, incorporating the subscribers to the
Bank of North America, together with sundry resolutions,
recommending to the several states to pass such laws as they
may judge necessary for giving the said ordinance its full
operation* The resolutions of the 36th of May last speak so
clearly to the points necessary to be established by those laws
that I need not enlarge on them. Should any thing more be
^und necessary upon experience, the president and directors
will no doubt make suitable applications to congress, or to the
states respectively, as the case may require. It affords me
great satisfaction to inform your excellency, that tkis bank
commenced its operations yesterday ; and I am confident, that
with proper management it will answer the most sanguine
expectations of those who befriend the institution. It will
facilitate the management of the finances of the United States^
the several states may, when their respective necessities re*
quire, and the abilities of the bank will permit, derive occa-
'sional advantage, and accommodations from it : it will afford
to the individuals of all the states, a medium for their inter-
course with each other, and for the payment of taxes, more
convenient than the precious metals, and equally safe : it will
•have a tendency to increase both the internal and external
commerce of North America, and undoubtedly will be infi.
nitely useful to all the traders of every state in the Union :
provided, as I have already said, it is conducted on the prin*
ciples of equity, justice, prudence and economy. The present
directors bear characters that cannot fail to inspire confidence ^
and as the corporation is amenable to the laws, power can
neither sanctify any improper conduct, nor protect the guilty»
Under a full conviction of these things, I flatter myself that
I sliall stand excused for recommending, in the strongest

ntECEDINC CONSIDERATIONS. 433

manner, this well meant plan, to all the encouragement and
protection which your state can give, consistently with wisdom
and justice. I have the honour to be, with great respect^

Your Excellency's most obedient,
and most humble servant,

ROBERT MORRIS.
Circular
To the Governours of each state.

An act for preventing and punishing the counterfeiting of the
common seal, bank bills and bank notes of the president,
directors and company of the Bank of North Araerica, and
for other purposes therein mentioned.

Sect. I. WHEREAS it is necessary .to take effectual
measures for preventing and punishing frauds and cheats,
which may be put upon the president, directors and company
of the Bank of North America, by altering, forging or coun.
terfeiting the common seal, and the bank bills and bank notes
of the said president, directors and company :

Sect. II. Be it therefore enacted, and it is bereby enacted
by the representatives of the freemen of the commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, in general assembly met, and by the authority
of the same. That if any person or persons shall forge, coun«
terfeit or alter the common seal of the said president, direc-
tors and company, or any bank bill or bank note, made or given
out, or to be made or given out, for the payment of any sum
of money by or for the said presi dent, directors and company,
or shall tender in payment, utter, vend, exchange or barter
any such forged, counterfeit or altered bill or note, or shall
demand to have the same exchanged for ready money by the

VOLt III. 3 K

454 AffZilT>l^ TO THK

gaid president) directors and companf, or any other person or
persons (knowing such bill or note so tendered,'uttered, vend-
ed, exchanged or bartered, or demanded to be so exchanged,
to be forged, counterfeit or altered) with intent to defraud the
sud president, directors, and company, or any other person
or perssnsf bodies politick or corporate, then every such per-
son or persons so offending, and being' thereof convicted in
due form of law, shall be deemed guilty of felony, and shall
suffer death as a felon, without benefit of clergy*

Sect* III. And be it further enacted by the authority afore-
said, That if any president, director, or any officer or ser-
vant of the said president, directory, and company, being
intrusted with any such bill or note, or any bond, demd,
money or other effects, belonging to the said pre»dent, di-
rectors, and company, or having any such bill or note, or any
b«nd, deed, money, or other effects, lodged or deposited with
the said president, directors, and company, or with such officer
or servant, as an officer or servant of the said president, direc-
tors and company, shall secrete, embezzle, or run away with
any such bill, note^ bond, deed, money or other effects, or any
pirt of them, every president, director, officer or servant, so
offending, and being thereof convicted, in due form of law,
shall be deemed guilty of felony, and shall suffer death as a
felon, without benefit of clergy*

Signed, by order of the House,
FREDERICK A* MUHLENBERG, Speaker.

Enacted into a Law, at Philadelphia, on Monday,
the eighteenth day of March, in the year erf*
our Lord one thousand seven hundred eighty
and two.

PETER Z. LLOYD,

Clerk of the General Assembly.

PRECEDING GOKSIDERATIOlfS. 425

Philadelphia, February 9, 1782.

SIR,

. THE president) directors and company of the Bank of
North America, incorporated by the United States of America
10 congress assembled, have thought it proper to petition tjie
General Assembly of Pennsylvania for a similar charter) and
such further support from the legislature of the state, as may
render the bank capable of yielding those advantages to the
general cause of America, which are intended thereby : and
this institution being encouraged and supported by citizens of
other states, as well as that in which it happens to be estab-
lished, the most respectful and proper mode of presenting
the petition to that honourable house appearing to be through
the supreme executive council of the state, we have enclosed
the same to you, and request that you will please to lay it be-
fore the general assembly as soon as they shall me^t** I have
the honour to be^

Your excellency's most obedient servant,
THOMAS WILLING, President.

His excellency William Moore, Esq. President.

An Act to incorporate this Subscribers to the Bank of North

America.

Sect. I. WHEREAS the United States in congress as-
sembled, from a conviction of the support which the finances
of the United States would receive from the establishment of
a national bank, passed an ordinance to incorporate the sub-
scribers for this purpose, by the name and style of " The Pre-
sident, Directors) and Company of the Bank of North ' Ame-
Fica :"

4)6 APPENDIX TO THE

And whereas the president and directors of the said bank
have applied to this house for a similar act of incorporation,
which request it is proper and reasonable to grant :

Sect. IL Be it therefore enacted, and it is hereby enacted
by the representatives of the freemen of the commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, in general assembly met, and by the authority
of the same. That those who are, and those who shall become
subscribers to the said bank, be and for ever hereafter shall
be a corporation and body politick, to all intents and purposes,
by th« name and style of" The President, Directors and Com-
pany of the Bank of North America.*'

Sect. III. And be it further enacted by the authority afore-
said. That th« said corporation are hereby declared and made
able and capable in law, to have, purchase, receive, possess,
enjoy and retain lands, rents, tenements, hereditaments, goods,
chattels and effects, of what kind, nature or quality soever, to
the amount often millions of Spanish silver milled dollars, and
no more. And also to sell, grant, demise, alien, or dispose
of the same lands, rents, tenements, hereditaments, goods,
chattels and effects.

Sect. IV. And bo it further enacted by the authority afore-
said. That the said corporation be, and shall be for ever here-
after, able and capable in law to sue and be sued, plead and
be impleaded, answer and be answered unto, defend and h%
defended, in courts of record, or any other place whatsoever
and to do and execute all and singular other matters and

things, that to them shall or may appertain to do*

«

Sect» V. And be it further enacted by the authority afot^-
said. That for the well governing of the said corporation, and
the ordering of their affairs, they shall have such officers as
they shall hereafter direct or appoint. Provided nevertheless,

PRECEDING CONSIDERATIONS. > 437

r »

That twelve directors, one of whom shall be the president of
the corporation, be of the number of their officers*

Sect. VI. And be it further enacted by the authority afore-
said, That Thomas Willing be the present president, and that
the said Thomas Willing, and Thomas Fitzsimons, John Max«
well Nesbitt, James Wilson, Henry Hill, Samuel Osgoodj
Cadwallader Mon:is, Samuel Engles, Samuel Meredith, Wil-
liam Bingham, Timothy Matlack and Andrew Caldwell, be the
present directors of the said corporation, and shall so continue
until another president and other directors shall be chosen,
according; to the laws and regulations of the said corporation.

Sect. Vn. And be it further enacted by the authority afore-
said. That the president and directors of the said corporation
shall be capable of exercising such powers, for the well govern-
ing and ordering of the affairs of the said corporation, and of
holding such occasional meetings for that purpose, as shall be
described, fixed and determined by the laws, regulations and
ordinances of the said corporation.

Sect. Vni. And be it further enacted by the authority
aforesaid. That the said corporation may make, ordain, esta-
blish and put in execution such laws, ordinances and regula*
tions, as shall seem necessary and convenient for the govern-
ment of the said corporation.

Sect. IX. Provided always. That nothing 'herein before
contained shall be construed to authorize the said corporation
to exercise any powers in this state, repugnant to the laws or
constitution thereof*

Sect. X. And be it further enacted by the authority afore-
said. That the said corporation shall have full power and
authority to make, have and use a common seal, with such,
devices and inscription as they shall think proper, and the same
'to break) alter and reneW) at their pleasure.

4a«

^n%Jllt>l% TO TH£

Sect* XI* And be it furtjier enacted by the authority afore-
said, That this act shall be coD&trued and Uken most favour-
ably and beneficially for the said corporation*

Signed, by order of the House,

FREDERICK A. MUHLENBERG, Speaker.

Inacted into' a Law, at Philadelphia, on Monday,
the first day of April, in the year of our-Lord
one thousand seven hundred eighty and two*

PETER Z. LLOYD,

Clerk of the General Assembly*

ON the I6th day of February, 1782, advanced to the United
States, on behalf of Pennsylvania, 80,000 dollars*

At different times in If 83, advanced to the commissioners
for defence of the river and bay of Delaware, the sum of about
33,500 dollars*

On the 1 7th day of September, 1783, advanced to the state
treasurer, for defence of the western frontiers, upon application
of the house of assembly, 13,333 1-3 dollars, in part of a larger
turn agreed to be lent, as the necessity of the state might
require ; but upon advice from the British commander in
chief, that the Indians were called off our frontiers, this re-
quisition stopped, and no further sum was taken out. of the
bank*

On the 18th day of April, 1784, paid the speaker's draft
on the treasurer, accepted by himy in favour of James Mease,
U,OCK) doUftTS*

p

vrecedHig considerations.
On the 6th of Januarjr, 1785, lent the managers of the
house of employment, 4)000 dollars.

Or the 26th of January, 178S, lent the city wardens the
sum of 3,400 dollars*

FINII,

«.
