8 June 1, 1779 it will be wise to abstain from Hostilities for the present and rather suffer a little than shed blood. If the Members of Congress are really as much in earnest as they appear to be all will be well. We are very much disposed to credit their Declarations on the subject & have ground to hope that this and every other Cause of Jealousy may be done away and Mutual Confidence, Harmony & good Understand ing take place between New York & her sister States to the eastward. These are essential to their common Prosperity & must give sincere pleasure to every well wisher of the American Cause. Be assured that our attention to the Rights of our Constituents on the present important occasion shall not cease and that we are with great Respect and Esteem Your Excellency’s most obt. Servts. Wm. Floyd, John Jay, Gouv’r Morris, 4 James Duane. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:9—10. 1 In his May 29 letter to the New York delegates, Governor Clinton had cited new disturbances in Cumberland County as evidence that “the Vermont Business is now arrived at a Crisis” and that Congress must act “without Delay.” Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:859. 2 See John Jay to Clinton, this date. 3 See John Jay to Timothy Edwards et al., June 2; and Jay to Clinton, June 3, 1779. 4 A few days later Gouverneur Morris wrote a personal letter to Clinton urging moderation in the Vermont controversy even if it was “not agreeable to our Legislature.” Only a badly burned fragment of the letter survives. It is preserved under the date June 6, 1779, in the Clinton Papers, N. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir Philadelphia June 1st. 1779 We received your Excellency’s letter of the 13th May yesterday, and in answer to it be pleased to be informed that Mr. Ellery was favoured in February last with two letters One from Col. Greene, the other from Lt Col. Ward, both inclosing similar arrangements of the first battalion of Continental Troops raised by our State. On the 14th of February Mr. Ellery wrote a letter to Genl. Washington to whom was committed the Arrangement of the Army, inclosing Col. Greene’s letter and his list of Arrangement for his battalion, in answer to which Genl. Washington writes thus “Head Quarters Middle Brook 22d April 1779. Sir your favour dated 14th February only reached me yesterday. The Arrangment of the two Rhode Island Regiments has been settled, and the Commissions are now in my hands waiting an opportunity for forwarding them. 1 The dates for the commissions in Mr. Ward’s list, which is before Us, agrees with the dates in the Resolution of Assembly, and the
