June 1, 1779 9 names differ only in this respect: The Assembly’s list hath not so many names in it as Mr. Ward’s, and it contains the name Daniel Dexter which is not in the other. Genl. Washington hath doubtless sent forward Commissions for all the Officers mentioned in the resolution of Assembly excepting One for Daniel Dexter, and upon Col. Greene’s sending to him a copy of the Act of Assembly he will doubtless transmit a commmission for Mr Dexter. Christopher Greene Sami. Ward Ebenezer Flagg Elijah Lewis Thomas Cole John S. Dexter Thoms. Arnold John Holden Edwd Slocum Jos. Arnold Daniel Peirce Zephanh. Brown Robt. Rogers David Johnson Elias Thompson Enoch Stanton Charles Peirce John Cooke Mr. Ward’s List Col. Lt Col. vacancy 26th May 1778 Major do. 26 do Capt. do. do. do. do. do. 10th Oct. 1777 do. do. 26th May 1778 Capt Lt. 1st June Lieut. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. 10th Octr. 1777 do. do. Istjune 1778 It would be exceedingly agreeable to your delegates to be fur nished with the Acts of Assembly they have frequently tho’ fruit lessly wrote for. The Letter we last wrote to your excellency and which had not reached you when you wrote last, we hope will give you satisfaction as to the Post’s route through our State. 2 Mr. Hazard, who will be in the eastern States before you will receive this, promised me that he would rectify any error which had taken place through misconstruc tion or otherwise of his letters, and see that the post should pass backwards and forwards on his old route. The last accounts from Virginia say that they had collected a con siderable body of militia to oppose the enemy, and that they were embarking with great precipitation. The papers contain the last authentic advices from So. Carolina. The Account by way of New- Providence we wish may turn out to be true. We are sorry to find that any inhabitant of our State should be so foolish and so wicked as to go over to the enemy, and that there should be any among us that are so abandoned as to supply the enemy with provisions, and hope that they will be brought to con-
