10 June 1, 1779 dign punishment. As, it is impossible to guard the whole extent of our Shores would it not be adviseable to remove the Stock from such parts thereof as we cannot defend? Would it not be adviseable to pass an Act for confiscating the Estates of Tories? Is it not just that traitors to their country should loose their estates? And might not such an Act intimidate persons from furnishing the enemy in future with provisions and intelligence? We submit these queries to the wisdom of Government, and are with the greatest respect, your Excellency’s most obedt. hble Servants, William Ellery John Collins P.S. The resolution of Congress for an additl. tax of forty five mil lions & the address of Congress will reach you before this. 3 In a short time the whole plan of finance will be completed & transmitted. RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery, and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 General Washington’s April 22 letter to Ellery is in the Washington Papers, DLC. For further information on the arrangement of the Rhode Island regiments, see Ellery to Washington, February 14, 1779, note. 2 See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, May 25, 1779. 3 See John Jay to the States, May 22 and 28, 1779. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 1st June 1779 Your favor of the 27th ulto came to hand last evening. The enclosed address will show you part of a plan for putting the paper medium on a better footing. 1 I hope it will have it’s desired effect—if the people will do their part I have no doubt the evils, so loudly com plained of will be in a great measure speedily remedied. By the last authentic accounts from South Carolina there was great reason to be apprehensive that Charlestown would soon be in the hands of the enemy. We had last evening a report which gains great credit here, that an action happened on the 15th inst. in which the enemy were entirely routed; this account comes in such a way and related with such circumstances, that I am called an infidel for only saying wish it true—however I hope I shall be able to give it you per next post in full tale. The enemy are in motion at New York, but we are not yet able to investigate their designs. It is yet uncertain when I shall set out for home—my anxiety for the determination of some important matters will keep me longer than I should otherwise incline to tarry—however, I shall inform you of my departure from hence some weeks before I take my leave—in the mean time accept my best wishes and believe me to be your very affectionate friend, and humble servant. Wm Whipple
