June 2, 1779 11 Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Whipple undoubtedly enclosed a copy of “An Address to the Inhabitants of the United States of America” that had been adopted by Congress on May 26. See JCC, 14:649-57. Committee for Indian Affairs to the Board of War Gentlemen Philad. 2d June 1779 I am directed by the Committee of Congress on Indian Affairs to inform you that we have this Evening finished our Conference with the Deputies from the Delaware Tribe, and dismissed them. 1 You will be pleasd to deliver them the proposal mentiond in the Note sent by Col. Morgan & procede in the most prudent manner for their safe Return, consulting with Col. Morgan & Col. Gibson. We are sorry to inform you that from various Intelligence we are appre hensive this will be no easy Task: at the same time that any ill Treat ment to them woud be a great Reproach to the United States, Under law protected And by the Jurisdiction of whose Agent they have ingresd to this place. We must to enquire whether it may be more Secure for them to Join General Sullivan’s Troops or proceed under the present Rout on the Road they Came, & to apprize them of their danger if you think it necessary. In behalf of the Committee, I am, Sir, your huml obed Sevt &c. Jas. Duane Chr of the Committee on Ind. Afairs FC (DNA: PCC, item 166). Written by James Duane. 1 For the recent activities of the Delaware Indian chiefs and the Committee for Indian Affairs, see Committee for Indian Affairs Speech to the Delaware Indians, May 25 and 26; Henry Laurens’ Notes on the Conference with the Delaware Indians, May 26; and Duane to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, May 29, 1779. On June 1 Congress had authorized $5,333.33 to defray the expenses of the “Indian Chiefs now in town.” JCC, 14:676. Duane assigned the settlement of the accounts to Col. George Morgan in a brief note of June 3, 1779: “Colo. Morgan is desired to liquidate the expences of the Deputies from the Delaware Tribes, on their Visit to Congress, continuance at Philadelphia, and their return &ca.” PCC, item 136, 4:357. 2 Col. Daniel Brodhead had warned General Washington in a May 3 letter that “Several parties have been assembled to Murder the Delaware Chiefs now on their way to Philadelphia,” and Washington had relayed the warning to George Morgan. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:113. 3 The board immediately responded to Duane “that the guard which came from fort pitt are about returning; so that the Indian Chiefs may take advantage of their convoy. If this is not done, the Board have no other means of providing a guard for them.” PCC, item 166, fol. 469.
