12 June 2, 1779 James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philad. 2d June 1779. Be pleased to accept my Thanks for your Excellency’s very friendly and obliging Letter of the 15” ult. 1 Sensible of the Embarrasments of Government under the multitude of Cares which surround you, I can easily conceive of your want of Leisure for friendly correspon dence. Your Excellency is no stranger to the part I have acted for General Schuyler; considering his abilities and high military Rank to be of the most essential Importance to our State; after defeating all the attempts for his destruction, and seeing him honorably acquitted, he has disappointed all my Labours by persevering in, or rather reiterating, his Resignation in Terms the most absolute. It is true he has many Provocations; but by this step he has equally hurt the feelings of his Friends, & gratified his Enemies. I shall long impatiently to hear how the new Tax of 45 millions is relished in our state. It is a great Effort but nothing less coud pre vent the total Loss of our publick credit? Does the address tend to produce a Confidence that the money will be ultimately secure? I take that to be the cardinal point. I thank your Excellency for your particular attention to me, & I hope the same favourable sentiments of my attention to duty will pervade the Legislature. I am confident if application, assiduous application, entitle me to Indulgence it will not be withheld. There are a few things I wish to see accomplished, & then to be permitted to visit my Family & look after the shatterd Ruins of my Fortune. The power of fixing the Rotine of the Delegates ought doubtless to be vested in your Excellency. Without this it will never be equal, or indeed tolerable to any Man who is not wholly divested of domestic Feelings. I recollect that for the period of 28 months, I was in the whole only four with my Family. Is not this beyond any Rate of proportion? Your Excellency will receive the acts of Congress respecting the Revolt from our State by this Conveyance. On this subject I refer you to our publick Letter. 2 It is my opinion that if the proposed Committee act with propriety, they may influence a great Majority to return to their Duty; But I am equally perswaded that if they please they can fix them forever in their opposition. This is not a desirable Hazard, altho’ it is preferable to the Effusion of American Blood. In short, Sir, much depends on the Candour of the New England Delegates, some of whom have fomented this seperation. Now the Property is secure to their Friends, they may be contented. They are loud in their professions, and I am disposed to meet them with some degree of Confidence; Indeed to bury all animosities in everlasting oblivion.
