June 3, 1779 17 not heard the parties they have carefully avoided giving any opinion as to the Merit of any of their Claims. A judicious Committee is appointed to inquire into the Matter and endeavour an accommoda tion, who will repair to the place as soon as may be. I doubt not but that you will use your Authority and Influence to preserve the pub lic tranquility in the meantime. I am with great Esteem and Regard, your humble Servant, Roger Sherman Tr (NNC: Jay Papers). In the hand of John Jay. Enclosed in John Jay to George Clinton, June 3, 1779. 1 Thomas Chittenden (1730—97), a former Connecticut public official, had moved to the New Hampshire Grants in 1774. He became governor of Vermont in 1778, a position he continued to hold, with the exception of the year 1789—90, until 1797. DAB. 2 See John Jay to George Clinton, June 1; and Jay to Timothy Edwards et al., June 2, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Thursday June 3d [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. After the Letters were Read, The Order of the day relating to the ultimatom on the Fishery. MS (DLC). John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir Pha. 3d June 1779 It will doubtless give you Pleasure to hear that the York Delegates voted for each of the Members of the Committee mentioned in the Letter herewith enclosed four of them were unanimously appointed and there were but two Ballots which did not contain the name of Mr. Root. The Unananimity of Congress on this occasion is an agreable Circumstance. Mr Laurens moved that Vermont shd. be desired to send Deputies to represent their case to Congress, but nobody seconded him. He denies Allens Report, so far as it respects him, to be true. He confesses often to have seen Allen & to have promised that he shd be heard before Congress Did anything in the matter. The few dissenting voices on the Question disliked the mod eration of the Resolutions & were for coercive measures in the first Instance. Their future Conduct however (should the Controversy continue) will be influenced greatly by the Report of the Committee who are not ill disposed towards us at present. Care shd be taken that they return with favorable Impressions. I wish General Schuyler would interest himself a little in this Matter—his Address, Acquaint-
