June 3, 1779 19 towards him (which I did with great sincerity) & added I was sorry he had been so very severe upon particular characters, it did not in the least degree help his cause—that a plain state of what appeared to him to be facts, would have left Congress unbiased judges, whereas such language as he had adopted would at least seem to have been calculated for prejudicing the minds of the Members of Congress. Dr. Morgan replied he had struck out those parts which he sup posed I alluded to—I was amazed but gave no answer. About two Weeks after I saw Mr. Drayton at the Table in Con gress take the Report of the Committee of which Dr. Morgan’s memo rial is a part, & having a paper in his left hand as a director for his proceeding, obliterate several parts of the Memorial—which I remarked to two Members then in Congress. The 3d June ’79 Mr. Searle moved in very affecting terms for assuming the consideration of the forementioned Report. Mr. Drayton warmly seconded him. 2 Mr. Laurens rose and said he knew of no Report respecting Dr. Morgan before the House, that there had been one, but, that, that, had undergone such alterations & obliterations since it had been deliv ered to the House, as in his opinion, destroyed its original character “the Report of the Committee.” The President expressed surprize & ask’d, “Since it was delivered in, to the House?” Mr. Laurens replied, “Yes Sir, since & some parts long since”. Mr. M. Smith & Mr. Penn said Doctor Morgan with permission of the Committee had struck out some parts of his memorial which had been thought to contain too severe reflections against particular persons. Mr. Laurens rose and said he knew of no Report respecting Dr. Morgan before the House, that there had been one, but that, that, had obliterated several parts. Mr. Drayton arose & said he had— “that there were some severe epithets which had been struck out (or expunged) in order to make it go down the better”. These were his very (foolish) words. The President said to him— “after the Paper was delivered to the house you had no right to strike out or alter a single Iota. I am clear in this.” Mr. Drayton was proceeding to justify his practice or to extenuate the fault, when Mr. Laurens said, that (meaning the practice) should be considered at a proper time & he hoped in a proper manner, & called for the Order of the day, Vizt. the Report on Mr. Girard’s communication which was accordingly brought forward. The same Morning Vizt. 3d June—Mr. Drayton came to me in the House & said “Huger & Hutson are come to Town & intend to go to Charles Town in a day or two have we any thing to write by them officially?” I answered, “if you recollect any thing, it will be proper, I thought to have transmitted General Washington’s orders to Gen eral Scott as we had agreed to do in an official Letter but as I found
