June 4, 1779 23 referral of the controversy to the commander in chief, see the Medical Committee to George Washington, November 15, 1779. 2 Holten also wrote the following brief note this day to Henry Gardner, Massachusetts’ treasurer: “Please to pay, Mr. John Lowell, three hundred pounds, in part of the warrant, you have in your office, in my favor, and you’l oblige your humble servant.” Holten Papers, DLC. John Jay to George Washington Sir Philadelphia 4 June 1779 I have the Honor of transmitting herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 3d Inst, authorizing your Excellency to make such and so many parole Exchanges as you may judge expedient. 1 Various Reports respecting the Enemy’s Movements in West Ches ter County have lately reached us, but we know not what Degree of Credit is due to them. The Report of a victory near Charlstown still continues and is believed—no direct Intelligence from that Quarter has yet arrived. Two Dozen printed Copies of the Report of our Commissioners for settling a Cartel are herewith sent. 2 It is the wish of Congress that they may be conveyed to our Prisoners with the Enemy. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys most obedt Servant, John Jay. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For the background of this resolve, see John Fell’s Diary, May 21, 1779, note 2. 2 Congress had endorsed this report on May 10, for which see Jay’s second letter to Washington, May 10, 1779, note 2. For the enclosed copies of the report printed by David C. Claypoole, “Printer to the Honorable the Congress of the United States,” see Evans, Am. Bibliography, No. 16,631. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir: June 4th, 1779. The letter to which this may be considered as an addition, was to have been sent by the post, but was too late for that conveyance. 1 Since that time we have had reports several ways, and attended with some circumstances of probability, that Gen. Lincoln had defeated the enemy in South Carolina. We are in anxious hourly expectation to receive some authentic advice from that quarter. Our last advices are as old as the 5th of May, and have been printed. The Assistant Quartermaster General, Mr. Pettit, received a letter this morning from a Deputy Quartermaster General, at the head of Elk river, dated June 3d, informing him that the day before, two of the enemy’s ships were seen off Pawtuxet river, sounding the Bay, and that they
