June 4, 1779 25 1 New Hampshire did send Ebenezer Thompson to confer with the congressional committee in Vermont, but for the frustrating results see Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, June 20; and Whipple to Ebenezer Thompson, July 19, 1779. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 4th June 1779 Looking over my papers I find four letters from you, viz. 19th March, 5th, 12th & 19th Api. which I believe I have neglected to answer. This neglect I flatter myself You’ll pardon when you con sider the very small portion of time I have to devote to the purposes of private Friendship, it was my intention through the whole course of the winter to have been at home by this time but my great anxiety for the determination of some important matters will not yet suffer me to take my leave, how long this cause will remain is impossible for me to say. 1 I have been several weeks in expectation of a Colleague why I am left so long without one, I suppose will some time or other be explained. Three days in the week are appropriated to the impor tant business of Finance, this order will continue till some measures are adopted to put a stop to emissions, untill that is done every other means to reestablish the credit of the money will be ineffectual. The requisition for 45 million is part of the present plan, that with other measures which I hope will speedily be adopted, afford flattering prospects of success in this very difficult business. Forreign affairs is the important object but of this I can say nothing to you at present. A detachment of the Enemy from N-York have committed consid erable ravages on the shores of Cheasepeack Bay and returned to their former station, they are now gone in force up Hudson River where our army is collecting to oppose them the event of this expedi tion is in the womb of fate. More than a week past we have been amused with very Flattering Reports from the Southward. These reports come different ways and all agree in this, that the British army is totally destroyed, the action was on the 12th of May near Charlestown, we are daily expecting with great anxiety, a particular authentic accot of this glorious event perhaps it may arrive before I close this. 2 RC (MH —H: Sturgis Papers). 1 The “cause” was probably the fisheries issue, which continued to detain Whipple at Philadelphia until September. See also Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett, July 3, 1779, note 2. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Whipple to Joseph Whipple, June 8, 1779.
