June 5, 1779 29 4 For the “list of the Contents,” see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:426. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear Sir June 5th. 1779. I conversed again with yr. Lady before she sat off yesterday, and found she entertained an Idea that a certain Letter had not reached Congress. I went to the several Offices and found that Deer. 5th was the one in Question; 1 and that the Board of War had reported on several Parts, but had omitted to say any thing upon the Postscript as they must have given an Opinion, against it having withstood Genl. Green’s & Genl. Washingtons Testimonies in Regard to Blodget & other Aids. It is true that several Inadvertencies are on file respecting Brevets, but they only produced strong Resolutions to prevent their being Precedents implicative of disreputation to others who might be refused on after applications. I wish the Correction of a single Slip or two may not induce us to stop in the Work of Reformation so essential on many Points of the Proceedings of Congress. As to per sonal Slight of you, be assured I hear & see Changes every day in those who have not formerly done Justice to your Character. You will not indeed find such a complaisant Return to yr. Letters by way of acknowledgement, as heretofore, but your Case is not singular; the Manners of the Man differ. One was flush of Pen & Ink the other quite the Reverse; one was with his Candle burning in the Morning almost thro the year, the other has a lovely Wife to amuse him in these Hours. 2 Pray let me have opportunity to inform you on Points wch. are neglected by others, if the Journals do not answer as they come out: I am pushing them so that the Work shall come out weekly: 3 and will see that you have then: as I shall also the former Parts when they are finished. 1777 & Feb. & March 79 will in a few Weeks be ready to be forwarded. 4 Your Friend sincerely, and humb. Servt. James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 General Gates’ Decembers, 1778, letter was read in Congress on January 1, 1779, and referred to the Board of War.JCC, 13:10. Gates’ letter is not in PCC or the Gates Papers microfilm. 2 Lovell was contrasting the work habits of President Jay with those of his predecessor, Henry Laurens. 3 For Congress’ March 31 decision to publish the journals weekly, which it was unable to fulfill although the committee appointed to prepare them for publication struggled to do so, see John Fell’s Diary, March 31, 1779, note 1. Lovell had been a member of the committee since 1777. JCC, 7:101. 4 Lovell did, however, enclose with this letter copies of Congress’ resolves of June 1
