30 June 6, 1779 and 2 on the Vermont controversy and the appointment of a committee to visit the strife-torn area. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia 6th June 1779 This will be handed you by Col McNutt of Nova Scotia. 1 This gentleman being very desirous of uniting his country with the Con federacy has formed some plans for that purpose, which he wished to communicate to some persons in New Hampshire who he may consult on the subject, for this purpose I beg leave to recommend him to your notice and confidence. I am with much respect, your most obt hble servt, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Col. Alexander McNutt’s plans to foment a revolution in Nova Scotia are dis cussed in John Fell’s Diary, April 7, note; and James Lovell to Horatio Gates, April 5 and June 3, 1779. Committee of Congress to the Continental Boards and Departments Gentlemen, 1 Philadelphia June [7th] 2 1779 The Congress having appointed Us a Committee “to make strict Inquiry into the Establishments and contingent Expences of the respective Boards & Departments, and to consider & report the Retrenchments & Reformations which shall appear to be practicable & expedient, with power to call for Returns from the Offices, & for Information from the Officers of any Department” &c We desire You will please to furnish us with an Account of the Establishment & contingent Expences of your Department, & of all other Depart ments depending thereon, or by which Returns have been usually made to your Departments, also with such Information as may enable Us most effectually to answer the purposes of our Appointment. We are with great Regard, Gentlemen, your very hble Servants. 3 To (The Board of Treasury) (The Letter to the Board of War, to be the same with the foregoing, with this Addition after the last Word “Appointment”—We further request an Account of the Returns made to your Board of all supplies in the Quarter Master General’s & Commissary General’s Departments for one Year from the Day of 1778 to this Time, 4 specifying the sorts, Number or Quantity, and Quality of the Articles supplied.) FC (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). In the hand of John Dickinson.
