June 8, 1779 35 Trade, and we expect in a few days that the Deane will be able to follow them. We desire that you will give directions to the Command ers of the Ships of War in your Department to forbear the fireing of their Cannon morning or evening or by way of salute within the Ports or harbours of these United States unless in return of A like compliment from a foreign Vessel or by Special Order of Congress. We are Gentn, Your hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The Eastern Navy Board’s May 18 and 19 letters to the Marine Committee oppos ing the construction of a 74-gun ship and reporting the replacement of Capt. Richard Palmes by Capt. John Welch as commander of the marines on the Warren are in Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday June 8th [1779]. Com. Committee. Congress. Order of the Day of the Report of Recalling Mr Izard. 7 ayes, 4 Naes, 1 divided. Willm Lee 7 do. 4 do. 1 do. 1 MS (DLC). 1 For further information on the recall of commissioners Ralph Izard and William Lee, see the letters of the Committee for Foreign Affairs to Izard and to Lee, July 17, 1779. John Jay to Ebenezer Hancock Sir Philadelphia 8th June—1779 From the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 4th Inst, You will perceive that You are to take charge of the military Chest at Providence, & that the Sums requisite for the Service at Boston are to be supplied out of it. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedient, And Humble Servant. John Jay. Presidt. 2 RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.5). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 For this resolve combining the military chests of the Eastern Department main tained at Boston and at Providence, see JCC, 14:686. 2 Jay also wrote the following letter this day to clothier general James Mease con cerning clothing furnished Rhode Island troops in 1777. “You will perceive from the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 7th Inst, that they have ordered a Sum of Money due to John Donnel for Cloathing to be paid out of the Treasury, & charged to Captains Beall, Dickenson & Avery who received it.” See PCC, item 14, fol. 128; and JCC, 14:698-99.
