38 June 8, 1779 [P.S.] Present my Compliments to the Council. RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 For Sir Henry Clinton’s move up the Hudson at the beginning of June, and the American response to the British occupation of strategic positions at Verplanck’s and Stony Point, see Freeman, Washington, 5:106—21. 2 Jenifer doubtless meant May. 3 For Virginia’s most recent response to Maryland’s refusal to ratify the Articles of Confederation because the Continental government would not be vested with author ity over western lands, see the letters of the Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry of May 17, and to the Virginia House of Delegates of May 22, 1779. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia, June 8th, 1779. I had the honour of addressing you under the 1st instant. 1 From that day to our yesterday’s adjournment, we have made no progress in the treasury business, nor in our foreign affairs—none at all. This morning is appointed for resuming the latter. Mr. Deane sent a letter yesterday, which he intimates will be his last: he requests an adjustment of his expenses; and, if I remember right, his salary— the letter was committed to the board of treasury. Colonel Wadsworth has laid before Congress an alarming state of his department, and again declares his intention to resign. No less alarming is an explana tion from the board of war, respecting essential articles within their sphere. America trusts to ... . and .... to the chapter of accidents; 2 that mere accident which lately happened in South Carolina, will prove an excellent interposition in our favour—we shall turn t’other side, and go to sleep again. Enclosed with this you will receive a letter which Mr.Lovell delivered me yesterday; I suppose it came by the post; and also Dunlap’s paper of this morning. I am, with very great esteem and regard, Dear sir, your obedient and humble servant, Henry Laurens. MS not found; reprinted from Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee . . . , 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H. C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825), 2:233. 1 Not found. 2 Ellipses in tr. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir, Philadela. June the 8th. 1779 Your Letter of the 4th of June we had the Honour of receiving yesterday. 1 We shall prepare by the next post a Summary of the returns of the Army for the inspection of the General Assembly. We have consulted the Board of War upon the latter part of your Letter,
