40 June 9, 1779 John Collins’ Plan for Commissioners of Marine [post June 9, 1779] 1 The United States to be divided into two districts 1. Northward & Eastward of New Jersey 2. Southward & Westward of Newjersey in each district, a Board of Commissioners— Each Board to Consist of three— Each Board to be allowd. one Clerk & one Superintend, of Stores which they shall appoint and displace at their Pleasure, Commis sioner to receive no Salary but 5 per ct on the neet proceeds of the Sales of all Prizes as agents & the 20 per Ct Reserved for the Com mand [. . .] untill Appont. Power of the Commrs. To give orders for the Sailing, Cruizing, destina[tio]n and Con duct of all Ships Within Their District. To order the fitting, Repairing, Manning and Victualing of all Such Ships. To Suspend all officers for Breach of orders or male Conduct, order trials, Constitute Court Martial and Confirm Sentance unless in Capital cases. To frame Rules and Regulations for the Navy from time to time which Shall be transmitted to Congress for their approbation. Duty of the Commrs. To make Quarterly Returns to Congress of the Navy, Containing the names of the Ships in Port, their State and Condition, the names of the Ships at Sea, their Destination and the object of their Cruize. That they Settle their Accounts annually at the farthest and from time to time return Estimates of the arms which may be wanted for the Current Service—that all imbezzelments of publick Stores or publick moneys be Dearth. Regulations That no Ship be detained in port by Reason of the holding of any Court Martial nor for any other purpose of that kind. That all old Accounts be Settled by the Several Navy Boards with the Marine Committee. That all Ships partly fitted for the Sea be Completely fitted by the said Boards. That the Said Boards deliver over by Inventory and take Receipts from the Said Commrs. or their Store keepers for all Stores which may be in their Possession. That the Said Board deliver over to the Said Commrs. all Receipts and Checks by them taken from the officers of the Navy or others for Stores by them formerly Delivered. That the Commrs. Reside at such place as Congress from time to time Direct.
