June 10, 1779 43 R. H. Lee is gone home resigned. Mr. S. Adams goes on Monday, 1 to resign. But there are yet some hardy Watchmen in this political Camp, besides the veteran Sherman. Your affectionate humb Servt. J.L. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee, June 13, 1779, note 4. John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia, June 10th. 1779. I have the pleasure to inform You, that the News of our Success in South Carolina, is so far confirmed, 1 tho We have not yet received any Express, as to put the Truth of it beyond all Doubt. The Enemy attack’d our Lines at Charlestown, and were bravely repulsed. They attacked a second time, & while the Action was well maintain’d on both sides, a Column of Lincoln’s Army appear’d in the Rear of the Enemy, & immediately falling upon them, put them to a total Rout, with a very great loss of kill’d & taken on the spot—and then pur sued them as they were scattered in small parties to make their Escape, which perhaps is the Reason, that we have not yet had any Express from him. It is said, the Enemy’s Numbers were 4000 British, & 3000 Tories, the latter of which made little or no Resistance. In short, tho the particulars cannot be authentically ascertained, Congress is convinc’d that the Affair is another Bourgoiynade—and every successive Blow of that kind, must be more severely felt than the preceding, because it is striking upon a Place already sore & weakened. Let Us all at this important Crisis intensely recollect our Duties to Heaven & our Country—cooperate in our several Stations with the Efforts of our gallant Brethren in the field, and after vanquishing Lions in fair fight, not suffer ourselves to be ruined in our internal & domestic Affairs by the most contemptible Vermin that ever crept upon the Earth. I saw a Letter Yesterday from the Quarter Master General. He mentions the Enemy’s having gone up in Force to West point on North River, 2 an important Post of ours well situated, fortified, and garrisoned. After viewing it some time, part of them return’d down the River, & from Circumstances it is believ’d, an Irruption into New Jersey is intended. My Brother came to town last night, from Gen eral Cadwalader’s, & tells Me he came up in Consequence of an Express, to collect the Jersey Militia with all possible Expedition. It is supposed, but without any Evidence that can be depended on, that Genl. Clinton may take the Field with 8 or 10000 Men. Such a Force will not be able to accomplish any great Matter.
