48 June 11, 1779 from a hope of securing a vote for recalling Mr. Lee. When this should have been effected, Mr. Deane was to have obtained “the special permission of Congress for departing from the United States,” or it might be that he would depart without the “special permission,” “for who could control him” (said Mr. S. and J. P.). 2 Such sentiments were expressed by both parties, which warrant this suggestion. To these and similar expressions I replied in Congress: “If Mr. Deane in defiance of the order of Congress shall depart the United States, it will be pleading guilty, and upon Mr. Lee’s appearance before Congress and giving evidence against Mr. Deane, judgment will go against him by his default; and I believe neither this nor a future Congress will hazard that public resentment which would follow a permission to Mr. Deane to depart, before the appearance of Mr. Lee, unless from captivity or other extraordinary accident he should be detained an unreasonable length of time.” On the other hand, those who could not bear the idea of recalling a faithful servant, and subjecting him to the risk of being captured and carried into England, whose king and ministers of state are exceedingly exasperated against him, and who also suspected the designs of the opposite party, therefore voted against their wishes to detain Mr. Deane, because the recall of Mr. Lee was tacked to that article as an express condition. Thus were votes given by all, three or four excepted, against the principles of the voters. My sole motive in bringing forward the proposition for detaining Mr. Deane and ordering Mr. Lee to appear and support his charges, was for obtaining justice— 1st. To my much injured Country. 2d. To individuals. The proposition originally sprung from myself, although Mr. Burke reduced it afterwards to writing, in order, as he said, to try if gentlemen were in ernest. He never found me otherwise. Before I had voted against the recall of Mr. Lee (on the [8th June, 1779], 3 see the journal), I had repeatedly declared in Congress that I would vote for his recall, provided Congress would detain Mr. Deane, and this opinion I have invariably supported in private conversation with Mr. Lee’s brother, and other particular friends, in opposition to their sentiments; “fiatjustitia ruat coelum,” 4 was my governing principle. Thank God, I have acted agreeably to the dictates of my conscience, without respect to persons, and I trust my country will not condemn my conduct. MS not found; reprinted from Papers in Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, ed. Edward D. Ingraham (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-six Society, 1855), pp. 98-99. Labeled by the editor: “Note by Mr. Laurens.” 1 For the “foregoing” June 10 debate over Laurens’ effort to tie the recall of Arthur Lee to a congressional order requiring Silas Deane to remain in America until Lee could return from France to respond to charges leveled against him, see JCC, 14:711-14.
