56 June 12, 1779 mies to public virtue—let those base passions be suppressed and a fair field will be open for the display of Patriotism and every other noble principle on which the happiness of mankind depends. You say “mankind are in general such infernal ungrateful beings that it seems but right that nine tenths of the world should be kept in order by force.” I have transcribed this short paragraph for your further consideration, on which I mean not to comment—the disposi tion you have shewn in opposition to tyranny and monarchical govt convinces me of the impossibility that you can really entertain senti ments repugnant to every principle of Republicanism. You ask what shall be done with the Tories—my answer is short, banish them and by that means put it out of their power to do mischief to this country, and perhaps some of them may possibly be in a small degree useful to some other Community. 15th June. Yesterday arrived here a ship of 24 guns and 80 men formerly belonging to Liverpool—she was sent in by the Boston and Confederacy. I hope by next post I shall have an opportunity of transmitting you an authentic account of our successes in South Carolina; for the present, you must be contented with reports for which I must refer you to the newspapers. I am very respectfully, your friend &c, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee My dear Sir Philadelphia June 13th 1779 I send you the inclosd Extracts from our Friends Letter according to your Request. No Pains are spared to effect the Recall of Mr Arthur Lee. 1 If any are in hopes by this to put an End to the Useful ness of an able, faithful and indefatigably industrious Friend to our Country, I beleive they will be disappointed. I still flatter myself they will never obtain a Majority; but should they succeed thus far, it is my opinion that no Man in America would afford greater Aid in the publick Councils than he. The Day before yesterday another Attempt was made. The Motion which was offerd by Mr B 2 before you left us, was brot on, that Mr Dean be directed not to depart from these States till further order, and that Mr A Lee repair to America to make good his Charge against him. The Question was divided, and failing by an equal Division of the States in the first part, the other was downd by a very great Majority of Voices on a previous Question. When some one of the States may be better represented*, 3 it may be brot on again and again. Mr Lovel will write to you more largely.
