June 13, 1779 57 Being in great Haste preparing to set off on my Journey to Boston this day, 4 I can only add that I am very affectionately, Your Friend, SA RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). 1 For additional information on the most recent efforts in Congress to recall Arthur Lee as commissioner, see Henry Laurens’ Notes of Proceedings, June 10 and 11, 1779. 2 That is, Thomas Burke. See JCC, 14:711 — 15. 3 Adams added the notation “Ch. Just. D” to explain this asterisk, meaning William Henry Drayton, chief justice of South Carolina, a well-known supporter of Silas Deane and opponent of Arthur Lee. 4 Adams did not leave until June 15. His account of expenses incurred during his attendance at Congress contains the notation “My Service from Apr 28, 1778 to July 1, 1779, 428 days [which would include travel time].” Adams Papers, NN. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin Hond. Sir, June 13th. 1779 Philada. By way of Martinique I forward to you Gazettes, Journals, and one or two Pamphlets. The Situation of Things in Congress has been such for some time past that the Committee of foreign Affairs has been drawn on to look dayly for some interesting Decisions to com municate to you, which must account for their Silence many Weeks. I am once again left alone, and therefore in a too delicate Circum stance to pretend to give you any detail of Matters agitated but not concluded respecting your Commission. I inclose one late Resolve to which I beg your Attention; 1 and I intreat that you will believe me, to be with much Respect, Sir, your most obedient Friend, James Lovell, RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). Written and signed by James Lovell. 1 Lovell enclosed Congress’ June 3 resolve directing the Committee for Foreign Affairs “to write immediately to the Commissioners at the Court of France & desire them to transmit an Account of their Proceedings in Mr. Beaumarchais Accounts pursuant to the order of Congress of the 13th day of April 1778.” John Fell to Robert Morris Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia June 13th. 1779. I have been favourd with yours from Trenton. I should have been very happy to have had you of the Party (as you are Pleased to call it) at Bristol, but the meeting was merely accidental on my Part. I went there in full expectation of meeting Mrs. Fell and my Son there, but was disappointed, as the Enemy Prevented their coming at the time
