June 15, 1779 69 Mr. S. A. will within a few hours after the Arrival of this Post be in the Way of confidential Chat with You, so that I shall reserve myself for Subjects that may occur between this Date and my next Assurances of being with affectionate Esteem, Madam, Your most humb Servt. James Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 See Lovell to John Adams, June 13, 1779. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General June 15th. 1779 I inclose you the Gazette of the Day & the last printed Journal of Congress. It is needless that in my great Want of Time I shou’d attempt any partial Account of those matters which Mr S Adams & Doctor Foster now on their Way will give you detail. I am affectionately, your very humb Servant. James Lovell RC (CtLHi: Ransom Collection). James Lovell to James Warren General Warren J une 15th. 1779 As Mr Adams is on his Journey to Boston 1 it is not essential that I should now write minutely, relative to the Points which have been agitated here lately; all proper Communications will be made to you by him in a Way to which an Epistle is only a secondary Satisfaction. He will also give you the whole of what has reached us yet from Sth. Carolina, touching the good Fortune of Genl. Lincoln. But these Considerations would not acquit me to myself if I neglected thus early to acknowledge my Obligations to you for the obliging Ex pression of your “Desire to be considered as my Friend”, contained in yr. Letter of May 30th which reached me the Night before last. Be assured, dear Sir, that you have hereby liquidated a full Page in my Book of Sufferings. There was a Season when I counted upon Thousands & Tens of Thousands; but, for several Months back I have been fully persuaded that all my Hazards, Toils & Watchings were to be recompensed by the Approbation of a virtuous Few. I wish the “unusual Anxiety & Weight upon yr. Spirits” may be thrown off so far as it was occasioned by the Ultimata which are one time or other to be debated here: I cannot but think a decent Coalition would take Place among such as it is supposed will differ, from local Interests or varied Degrees of Resolution. I believe our Ally intends well for
