June 15, 1779 71 course to which you so pleasingly have provoked. Your most humble Servant, James Lovell RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). ' Samuel Adams' departure this day is documented in Samuel Holten’s June 15 diary entry. “Tuesday. I ride out with Mr. Adams and took leave of him, & he proceeded on to Boston; I wrote to Colo. Hutchinson and to Mrs. Holten (No. 61). a cool day.” MDaAr. 2 Lovell wrote the phrase “or Depreciation" in the margin beside this paragraph. 3 The nature of this “Case” can not be determined without Warren’s letter to Lovell, which has not been found. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia June 15th 1779 Mr. Marchant arrived last Saturday Evening, and yesterday took his Seat in Congress. 1 Your Excellency’s Letter of the 3d Instant referring to the States Account against the United States brought forward by Mr. Marchant we shall pay the most diligent Attention to. 2 But such are the various and Extensive Demands upon the Treasury and the exhausted State of it, that we have not the most sanguine Expectations of immediate Success. 3 We shall not fail of every Exertion to fulfill the Wishes of the State and of obtaining that Releif which its Circumstances demand. We enclose Your Excellency the last Papers which will give the agreable Intelligence from the Southward which is fully credited altho’ as yet we have reed, no official Accounts. With the greatest Respect We are, Your Excellencys most obedient, and very humble Servts. William Ellery Hy. Marchant John Collins [P. S.] In Congress. The last Journals of Congress is also enclosed. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery, and signed by Ellery, Collins, and Marchant. 1 See JCC, 14:725. 2 Governor Greene’s June 3 letter to the Rhode Island Delegates is in William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765-1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 240-41. 3 See the Rhode Island delegates’ letters to Greene of June 29, 1779. Nathaniel Scudder to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia June 15th 1779. I yesterday received your very agreeable Favor of the 6th instant, 1 and am much gratified by your Confidence & Approbation, for, be
