June 16,1779 75 for which see John Dickinson’s Notes, June 11, 1779, note 1. The committee brought in a report on Monday, June 14, which was considered and then postponed “till Wednesday next.” JCC, 14:726—27. Dickinson may have written this letter to his fellow committee members in anticipation that Congress would be “taking up our Report” the sixteenth, the Wednesday following its introduction. It is equally clear, however, that he could have written it on almost any "Wednesday Morning” thereaf ter before July 23 when Congress ordered the printing of a report on “regulating and retrenching the expences of the departments” in which many of the concerns of Dickinson’s committee were embodied. See JCC, 14:872 — 80. He apparently thought that the “Letters” and the “small additions” (see note three below) to the report that he enclosed herewith might be of use to them in his absence, as “the Decease of a near Relation” was obviously forcing a change in his plans. 2 For the text of surviving items of their report see JCC, 14:727 — 28, 809; and PCC, item 29, fols. 163—64. The remainder of the report has not been found. For the extent of Dickinson’s involvement in departmental reform, see also John Dickinson’s Notes, ante July 23, 1779, note 1. 3 Dickinson’s hasty letter to Burke and Huntington was penned at the bottom of a sheet of paper beneath the following suggested preamble and amendment to item 7 of their June 14 report, for which see JCC, 14:727. “Whereas many persons demand exorbitant prices for Commodities required for public service, far exceeding an Advance in proportion to the Depreciation of the Currency arising from its Quantity, by which Conduct they cause as much as they can still greater Depreciation, on the Supposition whereof they demand such prices, thereby counteracting every Measure that can be devised for appreciating the said Currency, Resolved (here insert the 7th Resolution of the Report carried in the 14th of June) & after the Word ‘Rates,’ dele the Words, ‘to wit,’ & say— ‘and that in the Meantime the Q[uarter] M[aster] G[eneral] & C[ommissary] G[eneral] of purchases & all Officers respectively under them be ordered not to give any prices exceeding the said Rates.’ ” John Fell’s Diary Wednesday June 16th [1779]. Com. Committee. Congres. Letter from Genl Washington, relat ing to the Enemys movements at the North River. Report from the Committee appointed to the affair of Vermont & N York, after debate agreed to. Order of the Day on finance, Motion for raising the Interest to former lenders, to make good the Loss on deppri- ciation. Long Debate. 9 A.M. S F & Peter sett off. 1 MS (DLC). 1 In his entry for May 28, 1779, Fell indicated that he had sent for his wife Susanna and son Peter who subsequently joined him in Philadelphia for a brief visit. Peter Fell was nominated the following week for the position of clothier general and again on July 19. See JCC, 14:757, 854.
