June 16, 1779 77 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To the Honorable the Revd. Doctr. Wither spoon, Coll. Atlee, Timothy Edwards, Oliver Elseworth and Jesse Root Esquires.” 1 In his letter to President Jay of May 29, New York governor George Clinton had enclosed a May 25 letter from Samuel Minott, chairman of the Cumberland County Committee at Brattleborough, recounting their recent experience with Col. Ethan Allen and a detachment of Green Mountain Boys who had seized a number of their group “for the purpose of redusing the Loyal Inhabitents of this County to a Submition to the authority of the State of Vermont.” In a long letter of June 7, Clinton had expressed alarm at Allen’s “atrocious Insult on the Civil authority of this State" and apprehension that faced with such a show of force the Committee on Vermont “will by no means produce the salutary Effects for which I suppose it was calculated.” Clinton’s letters were referred to a committee consisting of John Armstrong, Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, and William Sharpe which brought in a report on June 16, whereupon Congress immediately resolved to forward copies of the documents to the Committee on Vermont for the purpose of inquiring into New York’s complaints. JCC, 14:721, 741—42. The letters of Clinton and Minott are in PCC, item 40, 1:191—93, 199—200, item 67, 2:190—97; and Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:846—47, 858, 5:54—57. James Lovell to Samuel Adams 16th of June 1779 Since you left us a matter has occurred which may affect more than your meer Curiosity, I therefore will give it to you in its present State and will in time give you an Acct, of its Consequences. In Congress June 15th. 1 A Letter of this day from doctr. J. Morgan was read charging doctr. William Shippen junr in the Service of the United States with Malpractices & Misconduct in office, & declaring his readiness to give, before the proper Court having jurisdiction, the necessary Evidence in the Premises against the said doctr. Wil liam Shippen. On Motion of Mr Laurens seconded by Mr. Drayton Resolved That a Copy of the sd Letter be transmitted to the Commander in Chief, and that he be directed to cause such proceed ings to be had thereon as that the Charges alluded to in it be speedily inquired into and Justice done. Ordered That an Extract of the Letter with the above Resolution be transmitted to Doctr. Shippen. Yesterday a Report was brought in by the Treasurer to give Mr. Storey Emoluments similar to those in the secretary’s office here to a first Clerk. 2 But it was judged that ill Consequences wd. flow from setting a Philadelphia mode for Boston Salaries; therefore the Mat ter was referred back to My Lords to take order. They will direct the Navy to a Sum more adequate than heretofore, but in a Way that may not draw on other Applications in necessary Consequence. A Warrant also issued in yr favr for 1500 Dollrs. on your Applica tion the State to be accountable]. 3 An Answer was given in a Draught by the Comtee appointed on the Letter of the King of France respecting the Birth of a Daughter,
