June 22, 1779 95 hend that Kerr the Person mentioned by the writer of that Letter was put in Prize Master of one of the Prizes taken by Captain Rathbourn in his last Cruize, which it seems he has carried to the West Indies and sold for his own Account. We send you this Copy in Order that you make inquiry of Capt. Rathbourne respecting this affair and that you should be acquainted with Kerrs behaviour. We are Gentn. Your very hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The Eastern Navy Board’s letters of May 29 and June 3 (which is dated June 2 in their letterbook) are in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. 2 The Hacketts’ petition was referred to the committee on June 19. JCC, 14:744. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 21st June 1779 Your favor of the 7th inst came this day to hand. I should be very sorry to hear of Capt Simpson’s resignation, when I am in expecta tion every day of his promotion, 1 and that regulations advantageous to the Officers and seamen in the service will speedily take place. Your letter contains a sentiment some what paradoxical especially as it is the sentiment of a Patriot. True patriotism knows no interest, in the least degree incompatible with that of the public weal. May I presume so far on your friendship as to recommend the study of Republicanism? This will have a tendency to abate your anxiety for the acquirement of wealth and prepare the mind to meet adversity with a smile. I shall take an early opportunity to make a full reply to your letter, time not permitting at present. In the mean time be assured of the real friendship and esteem, of your most obt. servt, W.W. [P.5.] Col Peabody arrived last evening. 2 Tell Mrs W. she must excuse my not writing, wanting leisure. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 When a Marine Committee recommendation to promote Lt. Thomas Simpson, commander of the Continental ship Ranger, came to a vote on September 17, 1779, it was rejected nine states to two. JCC, 15:1074—75. 2 As Whipple reported this same news to Josiah Bartlett in a postscript dated June 22, he must also have added this postscript to Langdon on the 22d. See Whipple to Bartlett, June 20, 1779. William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia; 22djune 1779. Your obliging letter, without a signature, came safe to hand. As
