102 June 23, 1779 arrangement of these two great & expensive lines, and if there Shou’d, no man must resign before the end of the Campaign at the peril of his honor & reputation. I hope the measures almost ready to be published will at least soon put a Stop to the depreciation of our money. Will my Young Lofty fetch 12 hundred pounds, they give from that to 15 hundred here for a horse not near so good—I am with Compliments to Mrs. Davis & friends at Carlisle, Your very respectful friend & humble Servt. John Armstrong [P. S.] Mr. Blain is in health Mrs. Blain not so well as cou’d be wished— She is to go to the Salt Water Soon by advice of the Doctor. I cou’d wish to have a purchase of as much Grass as wou’d make Two Waggon Load of Hay—which with what I expect from my Own Lot, may possibly do and my Own boys to Cut & Win it, but this I suppose is hardly to be got, So as to be of any advantage. RC (DLC: John Davis Papers). Addressed: “Colonel John Davis near Carlisle. Favoured by Mr. John Pollock.” 1 John Davis (d. 1827) of Cumberland County, Pa., was deputy quartermaster gen eral at Carlisle, which was also the home of the Armstrongs. See Greene, Papers (Showman), 2:320—21. 2 Armstrong is referring to a resolution of June 7, in which Congress declared its “full confidence in the integrity and abilities of the quarter master general and com missary general. . . although there is reason to believe that abuses have been commit ted by inferior officers in their respective departments.” JCC, 14:695. Committee of Congress to Samuel Minott and Others Gentlemen 1 Bennington June 23. 1779. The Subscribers are here at present as Members of a Committee of Congress sent for the express Purpose of endeavouring to bring about an amicable Settlement of the Differences between the State of N. York & the Inhabitants of the New hampshire Grants who have formed themselves into a State called by them the State of Vermont. 2 We have understood that You & others who adhere to the State of New York have declined taking your Turn of militia Duty for the Defence of the Frontiers because the Requisition was made under the Authority of the State of Vermont, & that you have met with some Trouble on this Account. We have therefore sent this to inform You, that we hope there will be by Interposition of Con gress a happy Accommodation of all Differences in a short Time; in the mean While we have obtained a Promise from Govr Chittenden that You shall not be molested till Matters are finally settled & we have engaged to write to You voluntarily & freely to raise Your full Proportion of Men whenever your Neighbours are called, and you are informed of this, either by continental Officers or the New State,
