June 23, 1779 103 till such Time as You have special Directions from the Governor of New York, which we hope to obtain for you on our return home. This we are confident You will readily comply with as otherwise People will be tempted to impute Your Conduct to Dissaffection to the Cause of the united States. We hope you will understand that the Protection & forbearance which is promised us on your behalf is to be considered as on the Condition of your cordially complying with our Request, & in every Respect behaving quietly & orderly while the Measures for Pacification are on foot. We are, Gentlemen, Jno Witherspoon Sami. J. Atlee FC (DNA: PCC, item 40). In the hand of John Witherspoon. Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:97—98. Close and signatures taken from Tr. 1 The “gentlemen” to whom Samuel Atlee and John Witherspoon addressed this letter were men who wanted to keep the New Hampshire Grants as part of New York. Samuel Minott of Putney was a leader of this group and he served as moderator of a convention July 2—3 at Brattleborough in Cumberland County, N. Y., that author ized a long “Petition” to Congress describing their view of the situation in Vermont and requesting Continental support to remain a part of New York. PCC, item 40, 1:239—45; Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:108—12. 2 Samuel Atlee and John Witherspoon had been appointed with Timothy Edwards, Oliver Ellsworth, and Jesse Root to a committee to travel to Vermont and evaluate conditions for a settlement of the conflicts in that strife-torn region. Atlee and Witherspoon went directly to Albany, N. Y., and sent an express to Edwards in Stockbridge, Mass., notifying him of their plans and requesting him to notify the other members “that the Committee might meet at Bennington.” The full committee, however, was never able to meet. Ellsworth and Root, who were also members of the Connecticut Assembly, remained in Connecticut until June 22, four days after the assembly adjourned. When they arrived at Stockbridge, Edwards, who had resigned as a delegate to Congress on June 2, declined to serve on the committee. Ellsworth and Root, after learning from Edwards that Atlee and Witherspoon had left Albany for Bennington, headed for the latter place, but when they arrived at Bennington on June 26 they learned that their compatriots had returned to Albany just that morning. Recognizing that they could not act officially without a three-man quorum required by Congress, Ellsworth and Root dispatched an express rider to Albany, but he returned on the 29th with Atlee’s and Witherspoon’s refusal to return. Root and Ellsworth thereupon returned to Connecticut. Atlee and Witherspoon nevertheless continued their mission, even though they lacked the required quorum. They conferred with New York leaders in Albany, met with Vermont leaders in Bennington and Shaftesbury, interviewed Gov. Thomas Chittenden at some length, and wrote this letter and others on behalf of the committee. For the committee’s appointment, see John Jay to George Clinton, June 1; and Jay to Timothy Edwards, et al., June 2, 1779. For its subsequent activities, see Committee of Congress to Thomas Chittenden, June 27; Committee of Congress to John Jay, July 4; and Committee of Congress Report, July 13, 1779. For an analysis of the entire Vermont issue in Congress and the work of the committee at this time in New York and New England, see Winn L. Taplin, “The Vermont Problem in the Continental Congress and in Interstate Relations, 1776—1787” (Ph.D. diss., University of Michigan, 1955).
