104 June 23, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Wednesday June 23d [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters and Reports, Read. A Memorial from the Legislature of New Jersey was read, 1 relating to the appointment of Officers Referrd to a Committee of 3, vizt Sherman, Morris and Scudder. Order of the Day on Finance. On the Question for Mr Dickinsons amendment for the Interest to be secur’d to the lender of the Present Loan and to have Retrospect to goe back to 1st March 1778, 6 Yaes, 4 Noes, 2 States divided. On the Main Question Mr Scudder call’d for the Yaes & Naes and said his Life might deppend, on his Vote being known, All Yaes except, Scudder, Duane & Paca. MS (DLC). 1 For this remonstrance of the New Jersey legislature, see John Jay to William Livingston, June 29, 1779, note 1. Gouverneur Morris to Jean Holker Sir, Philaa. 23d June 1779. In Consequence of your Requests of the 9th & 16th I have applied to the Commissaries who inform me that since the latter End of April last the issuing Commissary at this Post holds himself in Readi ness to deliver to you 1000 Blls. of Ship Bread 600 Blls. of Beef and 300 Blls. of Pork and that there are also in his Hands 4000 Blls. of Bread ready to be delivered. That the Flour ordered from Virginia is coming on and will in their Opinion amount to 3000 Barrils and that it hath been impracticable to furnish that which was directed to be delivered here without distressing the Army. 1 The salted Provisions ordered from Virginia he hath not made Return of, I shall make a new Application to obtain that and also to cause more Flour to be purchased. At the same Time I must request that you will let me know the Quantity which you have on Hand that the Orders to Maryland for supplying you and the Army may be accomodated to the actual State of Things. 2 I wish it were possible for me to be particular as to the Quantities and Places where depos ited but this cannot be untill the Returns of the Commissaries shall become more Accurate. I am very Respectfully, Sir, your most obed. & humble Servant, Gouv Morris RC (CtY: Franklin—Holker Papers). 1 In his letter to Morris of June 16, Holker had requested “exact returns of the Quantities of Flour, beef, Pork purchased & stored for the use of the Squadron commanded by his Excellency Count D Estaing,” and he went on to insist that “all the
