112 June 25, 1779 the frigate Deane 1 from the Capes of Delaware into Chesapeak Bay, and on you arrival there, at Hampton, or any other way endeavour to Obtain the best inteligence if any of the enemies Ships of war or Privateers are in the Bay, and if you find there are and of such force as you are able to encounter you are to proceed up and attack them and after taking or destroying as many of the said Vessels as may be in your power—or Should there not be any british Vessels in the Bay—then without any loss of time you are to sail out of it on A Cruize in which you are to chuse such Stations as you think will be best to Accomplish the double purpose of intercepting the enemies outward bound Transports for New York from Great Britain & Ireland and the homeward bound West India Ships. We are of Opinion that between the Latitudes of 36 & 41 and 100 leagues Eastward of the Island of Bermuda will be your best Cruizing ground, but in this we do not mean to restrict you, leaving you to excercise your own judgment which probably may be asserted by information which may be obtained in your Cruize. All prizes which you make you are to send to the nearest or most convenient Ports of these states addressed to the Continental agents. You are to continue Cruizing for the above purposes until the middle of September next or longer if your provisions and other circumstances will admit of.it and afterward return to the port of Boston where you must be governed by the orders of the Navy Board of the Eastern Department. We have ordered the Conti nental Frigates at the Eastward to be sent out to Cruize for the same purposes you are now going on, and we think it very probable that you will fall in with them. In that case you, or they, or any of them are hereby directed to cruize in company under the command of the Senior Officer; and should you be joined by any of those frigates, and find by any intelligence you may receive of the situation of the enemies Sea force at Bermuda that it will be adviseable to make an attempt on their shipping, we recommend your undertaking it. By late Accounts from that Island the Virginia Frigate and a privateer out of London mounting 20 Nine pounders were the only vessels of war then there. We now wish to draw your most Serious attention to the execution of the business before you—the great expence and dificulty that attends the fitting and manning of our Ships must make you and every Commander in our Service fully sensible how much they should exert themselves to employ them usefully while at Sea. This consider ation we hope will have due weight in your mind and will call forth such Active & prudent behavour as will be of essential Service to your Country, and add to your Own reputation and the honor of our flag. We wish you health & Success, and are sir, Your very hble servants, By order, Wm. Whipple
