June 25, 1779 113 P. S. The Confederacy being designed for a particular Service, we have ordered her up here. 2 Messrs. Barons at Hampton in Chesea- peake Bay will be proper persons for you to inquire at respecting the enemies Shipping. RC (MH —H: Tucker Papers). In the hand of John Brown and signed by William Whipple. ' The Marine Committee wrote a nearly identical letter this day to Capt. Samuel Nicholson, commander of the Continental frigate Deane. Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:89—91. 2 The Marine Committee also wrote the following brief letter this day to Capt. Seth Harding, commander of the Continental frigate Confederacy. “The Confederacy of which you are Commander being designed for a particular service, you are hereby Ordered to proceed up Delaware Bay with her, as high as Chester where you are to Anchor and inform us of your being there.” Ibid., p. 91. Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadelphia, June 25th. 1779. Permit me to recommend to your particular Notice & Civilties Monsr. de Francy, 1 who is the Agent of Monsr. de Beaumarchais, and honoured with his particular Esteem and Friendship. I shall be extremely deceived if you will not find him a Man of strict Honour & liberal Sentiments; disposed to render every Service to the State consistent with the Interest of his Patron & Employer; who, to facili tate the Views of some of our Countrymen, has met with unmerited Abuse & very injurious Treatment; disgraceful indeed, to the great Council of America. The Services rendered by Mr. de Beaumarchais to these United States, will for ever entitle him to their warmest Acknowledgments & most grateful Returns; and I rest assured that you will never be backward in your Endeavours to restore them to the good Opinion & Friendship of an able & most zealous Advocate for their Prosperity & Happiness. I am requested by my Colleagues to transmit to you the Answer of the Minister Plenipotentiary of France to your Letter inclosing the Resolves of the Genl. Assembly of Virginia, ratifying the Treaties of Alliance & Commerce, entered into with that Court, which you will accordingly receive in the enclosed Letter. 2 I shall consider these Resolves of the Genl. Assembly as a Testimony of their Approbation of my Conduct, in opposing all those Measures which I conceived were calculated to destroy the Alliance; and altho’ they are made very seasonably, &, I doubt not, will have a very good Effect, I cannot avoid telling you that I think it is necessary to be attentive to the Dispositions of the People & to observe whether their Conduct be conformable to the Spirit of those Resolutions: For, be assured, the M r of F e fears much more the Consequences of Seduction, than the Success of B h Arms in America. The Establishing
