114 June 25, 1779 Committees throughout these States is by no Means considered in a favourable Point of View. It carries along with it the Appearance of a Design to place the Government again in the Hands of the People the better to conduct them to some favourable Object. I shall only remark, upon this Occasion, that Committees were formed for bring ing about the Independence of these States, and may be very instru mental in establishing an Alliance with Britain. If I may be permitted to reason from the Effect of their Measures here, I will not hesitate to declare that the Object they have in View is not that which is assigned for the Cause. I am not informed whether I am continued in the Delegation for the ensuing Year. 3 If I am, there are some Matters of Importance which I wish to see finally settled in Congress, before I return to Virginia; when they are concluded, the Situation of my Family & private Affairs will demand my particular Attention. Yet I would not wish to withdraw myself intirely from the Service of my Country in these Times, as I flatter myself I can in some other Respects render it essential Services. With this Persuasion I am induced both by Duty 8c Inclination, to acquaint you that I will chearfully undertake any Negociations which the Exigency of the States may make it necessary for you to attempt in Europe. I am, Sir, with much Esteem, Your most obedient, 8c humble Servant, Meriwether Smith P.S. Pray will you be so obliging to give me your Sentiments respect ing the Currency of these States, 8c your Opinion of the proper Methods of redemption? Whether you approve of Such Plans as are founded upon the Principle contain’d in the inclosed publication, 4 or whether Taxation alone is the simple or honest 8c radical Cure for the Depreciation, and the best Means of Redemption? RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:15—17. 1 For Smith’s letter on the subject of a memorial from de Francy, see Smith to Jefferson, June 24, 1779. 2 See William Fleming to Jefferson, June 22, 1779, note 2. 3 See Smith to Jefferson, July 6, 1779, note 2. 4 Not found or identified. John Fell’s Diary Saturday June 26 [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. This day spent in Reading Letters, Petitions, Memorials 8c Reports from the Treasury, Board and Board of Warr. &C. 1 MS (DLC). 1 This day another important matter was also temporarily settled when the Commit tee on Appeals declined to render a decision in the case of the Lusanna (Doane v.
