JUNE 29, 1779 119 general nature, and particularly because the application should be to the Delaware State, of which her husband is a Citizen & Soldier. As we cannot foresee the least probable injury that can happen by her obtaining this favor, we must in her behalf intercede with you to grant it, and, as she cannot afford the expence of an Express, that you would be so good as to inclose it for one of us, & forward it by the very first opportunity. We are, with due regard, Your Excellency’s, most obedient humble servants, John Dickinson Thos. M:Kean RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). Written by McKean and signed by McKean and Dickinson. 1 James Moore, a prisoner on Long Island, was eventually exchanged on December 7, 1780. See Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 298, 388; and Heitman, Historical Register, p. 298. John Fell’s Diary June 29th [1779]. Com Committee. Congress. Severall dispatches and Reports from Committes, a Question Put by the Secreatary whether Coll Ethan Allen should be supply’d with Copys of Papers relating to him &c, debate on the Propriety of granting them, (agreed he should). 1 PM Marine committee, Orderd a Brig to be Built. MS (DLC). 1 For a discussion of Allen’s business before Congress, see Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett, July 13, 1779, note 3. John Jay to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia 29th June 1779. Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, a Copy of an Extract of a Letter from General Washington to Congress of the 11th Inst. & of an Act of Congress, which it gave rise to, of the 28th. 1 By the latter you will perceive that Congress have again thought it requisite to call on the several States to fill up their Battalions by the most speedy 8c vigourous Efforts. The necessity of this measure is too evident to need any Argu ments to press Your Excellency’s attention to an Object of such moment to the Freedom 8c Independence of these States. Your Excellency will perceive the expediency of keeping the Let ter from the General as secret as the nature of the case will admit. I have the honor to be, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, J. J.
