120 June 29, 1779 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To His Excellency Meshech Weare Esqr. The same verbatim to the executive authorities of all the States except New Jersey & Pennsylvania.” 1 Washington’s letter of June 11, which was read in Congress on June 16 and referred to a committee consisting of John Armstrong, Elbridge Gerry, and Henry Laurens, is in PCC, item 152, 7:415—18, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:261—62. For the report of the committee to which it was referred and the June 28 resolve that Congress adopted in consequence of it, see JCC, 14:739—40, 780. John Jay to William Livingston Sir, Philadelphia 29th June 1779. I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency Copies of two Acts of Congress of the 28th Inst—The One directs in what manner to fill the vacancies which may happen in any of the Regiments raised by the Respective States for the Continental Army 1 —The other was entered into in consequence of a Letter Congress received from General Washington of the 11th Inst. (Copy of an Extract of which is also enclosed) and earnestly recommends to the several States to fill up their respective Battalions by the most speedy & vigourous mea sures agreeable to a former Resolution on this Subject. The obvious & absolute necessity of this measures prevents my adding any persua sions to press your Excellency’s Attention to an Object so essential to the Freedom, & Independence of America. I have the Honor to be, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servant, J. J. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 This resolve was adopted in response to a June 12 “remonstrance” from the New Jersey legislature submitted to protest recent infringements of the state’s authority to fill vacancies in the New Jersey Line. The states had long exercised the right of appointing officers to vacancies in the Continental Army originally embodied in a congressional resolve of September 16, 1776—yet they had recently been ignored in the reorganization of a number of Continental battalions and New Jersey had not even been formally notified of the suspension of a number of her officers who had been declared supernumerary. That Congress had delegated authority to make such “arrangements” to a committee and the Board of War was a matter of additional concern, and New Jersey therefore requested that Congress “interpose” its authority to prevent further contraventions of the rights of the state. New Jersey’s petition had been read in Congress on June 23 and referred to a committee consisting of Gouverneur Morris, Nathaniel Scudder, and Roger Sherman, which presented a report on June 28 that was promptly adopted. Congress’ resolve on the subject was decidedly conciliatory and obviously designed to smooth the state’s ruffled feathers. See JCC, 14:759, 778-79; and PCC, item 68, fols. 455-58. 2 See the preceding entry.
