June 30, 1779 129 1 JCC, 14:778. Washington’s June 23 letter is in PCC, item 152, 7:419-22, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:304—5. 2 JCC, 14:733-34. 3 For these resolves, see Jay to Certain States and Jay to William Livingston, June 29, 1779. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Sir Phila.June 30th. 1779. You have been misformed, Congress have not yet concluded on what terms they will accept of peace—they have been the subject of Deliberation for 5 Months past. I would most chearfully acquiesce in Britons keeping their American Possessions, and maintaining their Common Right of Fishing on the Banks of Newfoundland. Your observation is too true, that we have delayed recruiting our Battailions & sinking our Money beyond the time we ought to have adopted these measures. However, I am not without hopes that the States will exert themselves. If they do not, we are an undone people. Congress expects to raise 20 Millions on loan immediately over and above the 45 Mills. I am afraid Congress will not recommend to the States the repeal of the Tender Bill—I have mentd. this matter to some of the Delegates, who speake of the ill consequences that might attend such a measure, to be sure to put it in the power of Men to pay their Debts with the 20th penny is unjust. Congress have not reed, any information from South Carolina since the 5th of May. Mr. Drayton has a letter from a Gentn. in Chas. Town, dated the 19th of May which informs him that the Enemy were in Possession of James’s Island. No mention made of any engage ment having happened, but says Genls. Lincoln & Williamson were within a days March. In a New York paper of the 19th Inst, is a Deposition of a Capt. Mcalpine that left Tybee (Georgia) the 5th of this Month, and also a Letter to Sir Geo Collier from a Capt. of a Man of War in Savannah, both of which contain intelligence of a Serious Nature. And altho I do not believe the situation of the Enemy to be so promissing as to put them immediately into Possession of Charles Town, which they seem to expect, or that Governor Rutledge had offered to Capitulate on Condition that South Carolina should remain Neuter during the War, which they also assert, yet I fear Lincoln is not in force suffi cient to risk a battle. Two prizes to the Confederacy & Boston Frigates with 200 Hhds. Rum, & other Good arrived here Yesterday, likewise 6 or 7 Mer chantmen from Statia with various Articles of Merchandize. I am of opinion Mrs. Carroll would receive great benefit from the
