July 2, 1779 135 John Fell’s Diary Friday July 2d [1779]. C. Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters. Petitions &c were read, Order of the Day on finance agreed to sundry Resolves relating to the extending the time for Receiving the Emissions of April & May, call’d out of Circulation. MS (DLC). Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates In Congress 2d July ’79. A Letter from a french Officer John 1 in bombast terms on the glorious anniversary of American Independence & praying Con gress to employ him to exhibit certain grand fireworks on the 5th Inst, which he had prepared for the purpose. Mr. Drayton rose & in a funny declamation informed the House that it had been the practice of all Nations ancient & modern to celebrate particular days by festivity, that Greece had instituted the Olympic Games, these things he repeated again & again without [end?] 2 & concluded by hoping the Man would be ordered to exhibit his fireworks. Mr. Laurens, rose, expressed his astonishment at the conduct of his Honorable Colleague, who seemed to be altogether joyous at a time when he thought he was loudly called on to serious reflection. Does not the Gentleman know that his own Country is bleeding at every vein & now probably reduced to the greatest distress? has not the Gentleman recently received a Letter informing him that all the Rich Planters in the Southermost parts of his Country are ruined? did we not yesterday receive a very alarming Letter from the Quar ter Master General? have we forgot the alarming Letters from Gen eral Gates read at that Table but two or three days ago? has not the Commander in chief frequently informed us of the precarious state of existence in which our Army has for some time been? have we not held out to our Constituents that we were endeavoring to appreciate our Currency by lessening the quantity in circulation? is not every unnecessary expenditure the cause of increas’d emissions? is this the Honorble Gentleman’s mode for appreciating our Paper Money by adding expence to expence & unnecessarily? If the Honorble Gentleman will shew me that the United States of Holland when they were in our circumstances & I beleive they never were less able to bear expence than we are, or the Canton’s of Switzerland, plunged into expensive feasts for celebrating the anni versary of their Independence, I might be brought to agree with
