July 3, 1779 139 1 The May 31 memorial of these officers, lamenting the “baneful Effects” of continued depreciation of Continental currency and requesting “Relief as may be adequate to our Wants,” is in PCC, item 78, 20:409-12. It was read in Congress on July 5 and referred to the Committee of Conference, which had already been “instructed to report speedily upon a further provision for the army” and which submitted a report to Congress on July 14. For the recommendations of this committee and Congress’ response to the grievances of Continental officers at this time, see John Fell’s Diary, July 27, 1779, note. Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates 3d July 1779. Mr. Gerry said he spoke to privilidge, and stopt the reading Public Dispatches. Complained of an insult offered to Congress by a Publication in Dunlap’s Paper of this day, introduced under the Signature Leonidas, 1 “If such famous Publications are to pass without proper notice ’tis time for Congress to go home, and other Men come in their stead. I am sure I will not stay &c. &c. &c. &c. &c. &c. half an hour. Moved that Mr. Dunlap be directed to attend the Bar of this House to answer such questions as shall be proposed.” &c. Mr. Laurens, “I second the motion,/or reasons to be hereafter made known. ” Mr. Merriweather Smith opposed the motion—“he had read the Paper and had it now in his hand, thought it contained several good things; then read and commented on several parts and finished his harangue with this peroration. When the liberty of the Press shall be restrained, take my word for it, the liberties of the People will be at an end.” Mr. Burke—opposed the motion—“it would be lowering and disgracing the dignity of the Congress to take any notice of the Printer or Author— what shall we get by the enquiry?” &c. &c. &c. Mr. Penn—opposed the motion—“The Writer he made no doubt had good designs. The liberty of the Press ought not to be restrained. Gentlemen talk of imprisoning the Printer or the Author. I will undertake to say, if you have power, which I doubt, and were to imprison them for six Months, they would come out greater Men than they went in. What was it made Wilkes so great and popular a Man, but the imprisonment he suffered” &c. &c. &c. See the affair of Rivingtons Publication. 2 Compare the conduct of these Gentlemen in that case with their speeches & declarations in the present instance—the purity of their motives & principles will be displayed—from the same polluted sourse flow all their actions—when some Men seem to be honest, they calculate for the accomplishment of interested or wicked purposes— when they speak truth, it is in order to deceive. Mr. Laurens’s reason for seconding the Motion was to discover
