July 3, 1779 141 what part those three Worthies would act, who had so eagerly attempted to persecute him for a Publication by the Enemy at New York, to which his name was subscribed— and who were now so very silent when a complaint was made of gross affronts to Congress by one of their own Printers—until he had seconded the Motion which was not hastily done, they sat mute. MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Moses Young, and endorsed by Laurens: “Leonidas & Co. in Congress 3d July 1779.” 1 Elbridge Gerry’s complaint was in response to a letter printed in the July 3 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet signed “Leonidas,” which sharply criticized Congress for failure to address the problem of inflation. Alluding to Congress’ May 26 Address to the Inhabitants of America, Leonidas chided the delegates for their long delay in coming to recognize the evil and asked rhetorically, “Why has the disease been suffered to run on to its last stage before you raised the cry of danger in the ears of your country?” Denouncing their attempt to blame rapid depreciation of the Continental dollar on America’s “enemies, or the infamous practices of monopolizers and forestallers,” he went on to assert that the problem “must be traced only to the mistakes of Congress,” and scoffed at their paralysis in the face of financial disaster. “Let us read something more than the ‘Yeas’ and ‘Nays,’ and questions for recommitting and postponing business in your journals,” he continued. “Your money—your money— demands every thought and every hour. You have more to dread from this quarter than you have from all the Britons, Hessians, New Levies, Refugees, Indians and Negroes that are now in arms against you. I conjure you therefore immediately to bind yourselves to each other by an oath, not to eat, drink or sleep till you have arrested your money in its progress towards destruction, and fixed it upon a permanent foundation.” For a discussion of Leonidas’ “Publication," where authorship of the work is attributed to Benjamin Rush, see Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:229—37. 2 For this allusion to Meriwether Smith’s attempt to embarrass him over the publication of his captured letter to John Houstoun in James Rivington’s Royal Gazette, see Laurens’ two speeches in Congress of May 15, 1779, these Letters, 12:472 — 75. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear sir Philadelphia July 3d. 1779. I arived here the 21 ulto. after a long & tedious Journey, 1 during which the weather was extreamly hot, there was much rain for 4 or 5 days So that I was Obliged to lay by for Considerable time where it was very difficult to procure Sustainance for men, or beast, and very expensive living, even where there was neither Eating or drinking, I came by the way of Sussex as it was thought unsafe to travel Lower down. I See much of that Jealousy & party Spirit by which some Gentle men will perpetuate their detestable Characters. The Wheel of Finances drags on heavily, Foreign affairs not much better, by the enclosed Newspapers You will See Something of the disputes &c— Southern, & Eastern States. I think it is of the utmost importance to the united States in General, & to the Eastern States in particular that the State of New Flampshire
