148 July 4, 1779 translation, the first of which is endorsed: “4 Juillet 1779. Notte Remise par M. Jennifer President du Senate et Delegue de 1’Etat de Maryland au Congress”; the second, “Autre notte du meme au meme.” As Jenifer probably left for Annapolis on Sunday, July 4, to resume his position as president of the Maryland Senate, which was about to reconvene, he may have given these notes to Conrad Alexandre G6rard just as he was leaving. It is not known for what specific purpose he drafted them, but it is clear from Gerard’s dispatches to the comte de Vergennes that Jenifer had devel oped a special rapport with the French minister in Philadelphia. Jenifer, Gerard asserted, was the most reasonable and fair-minded American leader he had yet encountered, by which he apparently meant that Jenifer’s views generally coincided with his own, especially on the possibility that the United States might ultimately have to settle for something less than outright independence, perhaps along lines drawn in the treaty of 1609 ending the war between Spain and the United Provinces. Jenifer also believed, Gerard went on to explain, that the several states would ultimately form several confederations rather than a single nation, and therefore that it would be in the interest of all parties if the states individually would ratify the alliance with France, following the recent example of Virginia and Maryland. Jenifer’s purpose in drafting the second note printed here seems a bit more obvious. He doubtless saw in a French loan one of the few hopes yet remaining to Congress for avoiding economic ruin and probably thought that he could improve the prospects for such a loan if Gerard and Vergennes believed that right-thinking Americans such as himself were wholeheartedly devoted to the French alliance and prepared to accept the guidance and counsel of His Most Christian Majesty. For Gerard’s July 9, 1779, report to Vergennes on the “plusieurs conferences confidentialles” that he had recently had with Jenifer, see Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 763-67. 2 At this point Jenifer inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note at the bottom of the page. “Whoever will but one moment reflect on the Struggles & Wars that were carried on between the House of Austria, and the Switzers for more than 300 years, must be fully convinced of the truth of this assertion.” Delaware Delegates to Allen McLane Sir, Philadelphia, July. 5th. 1779 Your favors of the 28th last month came safe to hand. We are sorry to find that any of the Officers of the Delaware Regiment should be so unreasonable as to attempt to contravene the arrange ment made by Congress, and approved by His Excellency the General, and also by the State. 1 When they reflect with candor on the subject, and consider, that the superabundance of Officers, compared with the privates, neces sarily occasioned the reduction of many Regiments; and that it would be extremely hard to discharge Gentlemen from the service, who had entered early in the army, to the great detriment of their private affairs, and continued in it with reputation to themselves and advan tage to their country; I say when they consider this, and also that there is no other possible way of doing justice to such virtuous char acters but by attaching them to some other corps, and that as you was an Inhabitant of Delaware, had raised your company in that State, and that some of these Gentlemen have rose from Ensigns to
