July 5, 1779 149 be Captains since you was a Captain; they will not, we flatter ourselves, think it hard that you have been added to their Regiment, especially when it will be a saving of about eight thousand dollars to the State. His Excellency General Washington has undoubtedly a right to detach any company in his army as he shall conceive to be most beneficial for the service; and we are perfectly satisfied with his having ordered yours to join Major Lee’s corps. We doubt not you will have an opportunity of acquiring honor to yourself and your brave corps; and sincerely wish you glory and all manner of happi ness. We are, sir, Your most obedient Servants, John Dickinson Thos. M:Kean RC (NHi: McLane Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by Dickinson and McKean. 1 Since McLane’s letter to the Delaware delegates has apparently not survived, the exact nature of his objection is unclear. His company, which had been recruited in Delaware in the spring of 1777, had been formally detached from the Delaware Regiment on January 13, 1779, with future assignment referred to the committee appointed to confer with Washington. Through an oversight, orders attaching the company to Maj. Henry Lee’s Legion (2d Partisan Corps) were not sent to McLane. Meanwhile, he sought reimbursement for recruiting expenses from Congress in late April, but the matter was referred to the state of Delaware, for which see John Jay to Caesar Rodney, May 19, 1779, note. Finally, in early June, Lee asked Washington for confirmation of McLane’s orders and on June 9 the commander-in-chief directed McLane to join Lee’s unit, an order to which McLane apparently took exception. See JCC, 14:58, 119; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:241—42; and Wright, The Continental Army, pp. 134, 273, 323, 348—49. 2 Because of McLane’s objections, Lee wrote to President Jay on July 6 quoting Washington’s orders and seeking congressional resolution of the matter, for which see Jay to Washington, July 15, note 2. John Jay to John Cox and Charles Pettit Gentlemen, Philadelphia 5th July 1779. Your Favor of the 3rd Inst, was this moment delivered to me, & shall without delay be communicated to Congress,—The Object it respects merits immediate attention, & your Remarks on the means of obtaining it appear to me judicious. 1 The copy of a Letter from Moore Furman Esqr. mentioned to be enclosed, was omitted. 2 I have the honor to be, with great Esteem & Respect, Gentlemen your most Obed Serv. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In their letter to Congress of July 3, Cox and Pettit, Nathanael Greene’s assistant quartermasters general, had recommended that measures be taken immediately to regulate prices, particularly because new and plentiful grain crops were about to be marketed, creating conditions holding new promise that such action might be effective. Their letter, which was inspired by one of June 29 from deputy quartermaster Moore
