150 July 5, 1779 Furman citing recent frustrations with skyrocketing prices in New Jersey, was read and referred on July 6 to the committee appointed on May 28 “to make enquiry into the establishments and contingent expences” of various Continental departments, for which see PCC, item 78, 5:359 — 66; and John Dickinson’s Committee Notes, June 7, note 1. 2 Furman’s June 29 letter to Cox and Pettit is in PCC, item 78, 5:367—69. John Jay to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia 5th July 1779. Your Excellency’s favors by Mr. Browne were duly received, and I have now the pleasure of transmitting herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 3rd Inst on the Subject of them.' Mr. Browne will take charge of a Packet containing twelve blank Commis sions for private Ships of war, with an equal number of Bonds & Instructions. I have the Honor to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Three letters from Trumbull dated June 22, which were read in Congress and referred to the Board of Treasury on July 1, are in PCC, item 66, 2:15—26. JCC, 14:787. For Congress’ two resolves of July 3 adopted in response to the first and third of these, advancing $200,000 to the state for clothing Continental troops and compensating messenger Jesse Brown, see JCC, 14:802 — 3. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Dear sir 5 July 1779. For weeks past that troublesome Monster Conscience has been haunting me “You forget Gov Livingston again you forget yr late penitential epistle.” No—I forget neither—do’nt teize me I’ll write as soon as I have somewhat to say—would you have me pester the Governor merely to tell him what he knows very well, that I am with the highest respect and esteem His Excellency’s obliged and obedi ent Servant? “Well go on your own way Sir but depend upon it you’ll soon receive another rap o’ the Knuckles.” Partly from this menace & partly from a higher consideration I have taken up the pen. But what shall I say? Shall I tell you Sir that Congress had the honor yesterday of assisting at Te Deum in the Romish chapel and that I saw there the only woman—what was I going to add? I forget. These are infirmities of old age to peep thro’ spectacles at pretty women in Church and to forget them the next minute. Shall I say that I mean to dine at home to day at my own expense because I hold it an exceeding bad means of appreciating our paper money to give eight or ten thousand dollars for a dinner, and because I think my constit uents are already sufficiently taxed and also because the Anniver-
