July 6, 1779 155 John Jay to Peter Wikoff Sir, Philadelphia 6th July 1779. I have the pleasure of transmitting to You herewith enclosed an Extract from the Minutes of Congress from which You will perceive that You are elected to the Place of Cloathier General. 1 As the Affairs of this department require constant Attention, I hope it will be convenient to You to enter on the Execution of this Office without delay. I am Sir, Your most Obedient And Humble Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Wikoff and Peter Fell had been nominated for this post on June 22 and Wikoff was elected to it on the 24th. JCC, 14:757, 765. In response to a query from Wikoff, Jay explained in a letter of July 8 that a clothier general’s salary was $5,000 per year and sent him a copy of “an Ordinance for regulating the cloathing Department,” but Wikoff declined the appointment the following day, stating that under current condi tions the stipulated salary “will fall vastly short of defraying half of the necessary & unavoidable expences of living even in the most obscure private manner.” PCC, item 14, fols. 145-46, item 78, 24:53-56; JCC, 13:353-57, 14:815. Subsequently Lt. Col. Persifor Frazer also declined the post before it was finally filled by Col. James Wilkinson, for which seejay to Frazer, July 17, and to Wilkinson, July 24, 1779. Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philadelphia, July 6th. 1779 I wrote to you on the 24th of June by Mr. de Francy; 1 since which I have reed. Advice that I am continued in the Delegation to Congress; But the Terms are such as are very injurious to my personal Interest and Honour; and I am not certain that I shall accept of the Appoint ment on such Terms. 2 It is notorious that I have been concerned in Trade, for upwards of ten Years; and I could easily demonstrate that very few Men, in a Public Character in Virga, have made so great a Sacrifice of Interest as I have done since the Commencement of the present Troubles. I have not however been engaged in the Business of Speculation, as it is called. My Managers in Virginia have reed. Consignments from for eign Merchants & thence my profits arose. I have not even written a Letter to them on the Subject of Trade or given them any Advice since I left Virga. I wish that direct Measures only had been taken to remove me from Congress, and that no Option had been left to me. It would then have been necessary for me only to evince to my Country the Rectitude of my Conduct whilst in the Service of it. But my Enemies, not content with attempting to displace me by a direct Vote, have availed themselves of a circumstance to procure a Law which either
