160 July 7, 1779 John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard Sir, Philadelphia 7th July 1779. The memorials I had the honor of receiving from You were yester day communicated to Congress. 1 The enclosed is a Copy of an Act recommending to the Governor of Maryland to permit the Ship Defence to depart, & carry her Cargoe to the place of her destination. 2 The other matters mentioned in the Memorials are now under the Consideration of Congress. Whatever resolutions they may give occa sion to shall be immediately communicated to you. 3 I have the Honor to be Sir, With great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedient, And Humble Servant J. Jay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Gerard had submitted two memorials to President Jay dated July 5, one of which was read in Congress on July 6 and the other on July 7. See JCC, 14:805 — 7; PCC, item 94, fols. 295—302; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:237—41. Both memorials discussed obstacles encountered by Jean Holker in purchasing and ship ping provisions for the French navy, the former seeking permission for the ship Defense to clear the port of Baltimore for Martinique, the latter seeking assurances that 5,000 barrels of flour could be immediately collected and held in readiness for the use of d’Estaing’s fleet in September. For information on the problems raised by Holker’s purchasing practices and the hostility engendered by suspicions that he and his agents were concealing private transactions under the guise of his commission as French agent of marine, see Committee of Congress to Holker, June 25, 1779, note 2. 2 This day Jay also enclosed copies of this act with brief letters sent to Jean Holker and Maryland governor Thomas Johnson. See PCC, item 14, fols. 143—44; and JCC, 14:805-6. 3 For the continuation of difficulties between Holker and American officials suspi cious of his purchasing practices, see Jay’s letters to Gerard of July 30, August 3 and 5, 1779. James Duane to Mary Duane My dearest Polly Philad. 8th July 1779 I have the pleasure to acquaint you that the Business which partic ularly detained me here is now drawn nearly to a Conclusion, and that the governour has promised as soon as the Legislature assem bles to puruse my Leave of absence. I hope therefore that in a few weeks I shall have the pleasure of being with you, our Children & Friends; & on such Terms that will leave me free as to my future Conduct. For Surely if there is any Merit in long & faithful Services I have a Claim to Indulgence: and it was to inforce this Claim and get the Consent of the Legislature for my Return—in no small degree— that I have waited here so long. The Summer hither to has been pleasant and I have not sufferd from the Heat: you may be assurd that whenever it oppresses me I shall retire to the Trees in the
