164 July 8, 1779 “This is a very extraordinary & a very dangerous mode of disposing of the Public Money.” I will add nothing harsh. You content your self Sir, with wishing that every person con nected with Public business had such accounts as yours to produce. Where shall I find the ground whence you derive this self satisfaction? Not in your declaration in Congress the 11th September 1778, respecting the Books of the Commerical Committee which had been always under your special direction & in your private possession about nine Months antecedent to that date. 3 Not from the unliqui dated accounts of the Secret Committee which has been abolished near, or perhaps upwards of two Years. Not from the condition in which you returned the Books of both, to the late or present Com mercial Committee in almost inextricable confusion; many more Months have since rolled over & I cannot learn that those Books are, even at this moment, in a state to be boasted of. Not from your confession that the proof introduced by the Gentle man whom you very unjustly call an Accuser, had Escaped your self & the Committee. This proof should have been produced as the very Corner Stone of your justification & of their Report; it was the only paper that could have averted general Censure; without it, the Report of the Committee & all you could have said would not have satisfied our Constituents. The opinions of Congress would have been recorded in such terms as would have given you lasting pain. The discovery of that Paper altho’ it was not particularly incum bent on me to seek for it afforded me that satisfaction which a Man feels who knows, that to be honest & impartial towards every Man are duties due to himself. Permit me Sir before I conclude to say—If you rank me among your Enemies, you do me great injustice, I acknow. that I have not approved of your general conduct in public business, it has in every instance within my knowledge been ambiguous—always wanting your own explication. I dislike the train in which the Commercial Com mittee’s Books are at present—you would not do amiss were you again to submit the adjustment of them to any other hand & in any other House than your own, you once returned them after more Months effort, because they were “confused” although they had been the work of your own performance and direction. I am, Sir, Your obedient humi Servt, Henry Laurens FC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 23). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 Morris’ ’’publication of this day” was a letter “To the Citizens of Pennsylvania” dated July 7 that was printed in the July 8 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. In it Morris had reviewed various “charges or insinuations” that had recently been leveled against him concerning his “accounts with the Continent,” and had explained his relations with the Philadelphia Committee during its probe into his purchases of flour for the French fleet, investment in the polacre Victorious, and transactions in paper money and bills of exchange. Although Morris’ letter actually dealt primarily with charges raised by the Philadelphia Committee, Laurens was almost exclusively preoccupied
