July 8, 1779 165 with Morris’ ’’accounts with the Continent,” a subject in which he had been inordi nately interested for nearly two years and which he doubtless felt Morris had misrepresented. It appears, moreover, that Laurens drafted this document for publi cation in the Packet, but no evidence has been found to indicate that he ever sent it to the Packet’s printer, John Dunlap, or to Morris. Its significance, therefore, lies in its revelation of Laurens’ beliefs and moods rather than in any impact it might have had on Morris or the American public. Of the responses to his public letter that Morris did receive, however, one of the most gratifying was doubtless the following July 7 note from the French minister to the United States, Conrad Alexandre Gerard. “I have perused with great satisfaction your address to the citizens of Pennsylvania, which you did me the honour to leave with me. All what refers to my Court in the transaction you relate is stated with the greatest exactness and I am ready and deter mined to support your conduct in this respect at proper times and places, in a measure consistant with my public caracter and with the Justice which is due to your zeal for measures intimately connected with the most essential interests of the united states and of the Alliance. I have already taken some steps with Congress to this purport and as far as I can judge your address will convince your fellow citizens that your conduct deserves esteem rather than the asperscions which have been thrown upon it.” Morris Papers, DLC. For other aspects of the public interest in Morris’ commercial transactions during this period, see also Committee of Congress to Jean Holker, June 25, 1779, note 2. 2 Laurens’ frustration at this time doubtless involved precisely this point, for despite the language of his denials below, he had indeed, on the floor of Congress the preceding winter, accused Morris of “fraudulent proceedings,” which upon investiga tion had resulted in Morris’ exoneration. For documents relating to this episode, see these Letters, 11:424-25, 430-35, 439-41, 447-55, 472-78. For an analysis of Laurens’ behavior at this time, which concludes that “this affair and others in Laurens’ career exhibit a strong tendency to pettiness,” see Laura Page Freeh, “The Career of Henry Laurens in the Continental Congress, 1777—79” (Ph.D. diss., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, 1972), pp. 390—91. 3 See these Letters, 9:23n, 151, 11:424—25. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Governor Trumbull, 8th July [1779] I feel myself highly honored by Your Excellency’s Letter of the 22d Ulto and much indebted for the indulgence you are pleas’d to grant me. 1 I will endeavour to make better returns hereafter, but six hours in Congress together with Morning and Evening Committees will plead some excuse for deliquency, which in general may be termed unavoidable. Were you here Sir, or did you know all, that some of your friends here know, you would be less pleased with the aspect of Public affairs than you think you are. The derangement which alarms you is the fruit of seed sown long ago—a want of harmony within, and of virtue and fortitude without Doors, are the obstacles which render it seemingly impracticable to eradicate the evil. I do not mean to arrogate to those within doors all the virtue and fortitude in the World, had they but a competent
