July 9, 1779 175 partly to the Marine Committee and partly to the Board of War. 2 We shall move for a Reference of that now before us to the same Board and shall promote a speedy Report. We present our Duty to the General Assembly, and are, with Esteem, Sir, Your most obedient, Humble Servants, E. Gerry James Lovell S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Lovell, and signed by Lovell, Gerry, and Holten. Addressed: “The Honorable President of the Council of Massa chusetts Bay.” 1 The Massachusetts Council’s June 10 letter to Samuel Adams, seeking reimburse ment from Congress for compensation of Massachusetts soldiers that exceeded Conti nental levels, was read in Congress on July 12 and referred to the Board of War. See JCC, 14:819; and PCC, item 65, fol. 396. 2 The Massachusetts Council’s February 10 letter, which is in PCC, item 65, fols. 382—84, requested support for Massachusetts soldiers not included in the state’s 15 Continental regiments and asked for vessels to patrol the state’s coastal waters. JCC, 13:274, 316-18. Gouverneur Morris to Joseph Reed Dr Sir [July 9, 1779] After what passed between us at the State House I should not have troubled you again on the Subject but that I am informed the Letter in Question (which I am thoroughly convinced you never saw) is now in the possession of Council.* It is I beleive the only one I ever wrote to him and is in Answer to one he had written to me. The Date of it will readily account why you should not have sought after or seen it. The Attack made on me renders me desirous of having the Letter this Day if possible. I am very sorry to trouble you so much on this Occasion. I was informed of the Inquiries made and your Answer for which I beg Leave to assure you I have a proper Sense. I take this Opportunity to thank you for it. If I had been treated with equal Candor by many who owed me more I should not give you the Pain of reading this Letter. I beleive if you ask the Secretary of the Coun cil or the honorable Mr. Gardiner the Letter from me to Arnold will be found without Difficulty or Loss of Time. My application to either of them might not have been refused. I am very respectfully 2 FC (NHi: Reed Papers). In the hand of Gouverneur Morris though not signed, and addressed by him: “His Excellency Joseph Reed Esqr. President of Pensilvania, Mar ket Street.” Endorsed: “Gouv Morris to Mr. Reed. Philad July 9, 1779.” 1 The letter from Morris to Benedict Arnold alluded to here has not been found,
