176 July 9, 1779 but for the conflict between Morris and Reed that had been simmering for some time, see Morris to Reed, April 9 and 25, 1779. 2 At this point the following words were added in an unidentified hand: “Sir Yr. Most obed, Gov. Morris. Signature and close [. . . ] E. D. Ingraham.” Gouverneur Morris to Benjamin Towne Mr. Printer, [July 9? 1779] 1 In one of the publications under the signature of Common Sense is this very trite and common though just observation, “an anony mous detractor is the serpent of society;” how much more he that detract merits, who boldly obtrudes his person upon the public view, it is his to determine. The palm of matchless impudence shall be his, and he may boast unrivalled the contempt of shame. Any man who reads the story of a worthy citizen whose ease, health, and pleasure having been sacrificed in the public service, is prosecuted and perse cuted by beings who owe security to contemptibility, and importance to malevolence, will feel the emotions of honest indignation. His astonishment will be equal to his indignation that bold assertions, without evidence to support them, and dark insinuations devoid of probability, should for a moment turn the tide of popular opinion against the friends of mankind. Should we hear that some faithless Carthaginian had taken refuge in Rome from the justice which pur sued his debts or his crimes; that having vainly opposed the mea sures taken for public liberty and safety, at once a sudden convert he had mouthed at Hannibal, and bellowed out for Fabius. That wormed into notice by a talent for abuse, he had been raised to a confidential office by a faction who laboured to undermine the great Fabius himself, the Saviour of his country. That to forward the views of his patrons, and promote the interests of his natal Carthaginian soil, he had betrayed the confidence reposed in him. That he had wantonly wounded the fairest character, branded the firmest patriots with the imputation of sinister views, and charged the generous and disinter ested with an inordinate thirst for dishonest and disgraceful gain; that he had endeavoured to spread far and wide doubts and suspi cions of the senate, to sap the confidence of the Romans, to weaken their councils and distract their views. That when chosen a tribune of the people, he had laboured to keep even bread itself from the army, under pretence of a public scarcity, and thus to leave the country a prey to her foes; and that notwithstanding all this the Romans should listen to, and confide in this man, this faithless Carthaginian. Should we, I say, hear these things, what should we think of the Romans? Change but the name, my countrymen, and the story is told about you. The Romans were an honest unsuspect ing people, and so are the Americans? Who was an Englishman?
