178 July 9, 1779 In Hall and Seller’s Gazette of the thirtieth of June, there are two papers, the one signed Common Sense, and the other Tiberius Gracchus, both of them levelled at a member of congress, supposed to be the author of a paper signed Americanus, both of them founded on a supposition that he had contended for excluding America from the fisheries. If this gentleman has meddled in the government affairs of Pennsylvania, let him answer for himself. 4 But he and every other our representatives in congress has a right to expect protection from the virtuous Whigs of America, while in the execution of his duty. I have reason to believe and authority to say, that the hon. mr. Morris was not the author of the piece signed Americanus, and neither saw it, heard it, or knew of it before the publication; that neither he, nor any other man now in congress ever held up an idea of ceding to Great Britain, or any power on earth, the right of fishing; and I call upon those gentlemen for the proof, if any they have, to contradict me, in order that the man or men, who shall have wantonly or wickedly misrepresented the debates of that honorable body, may be held up to the reproach they justly merit. The insinua tion against that gentleman with respect to our finances is equally ill founded, and the minutes and the members of congress cannot but bear witness to his zeal for private justice, and to promote the public interests. Those who advanced their money to the United States in the hour of danger and distress, when to so much greater private advantage they might otherwise have employed it, are bound to a grateful acknowledgement of his exertions in their favor; and as far as America may derive credit from the reputation of honesty and fair dealing, so far will she feel an equal obligation. Alike unfair and far more despicable is the insinuation against another member of that honorable body. To whom is our country most indebted? Is it not to those who risqued most for her salvation? Those, who could suffer much and gain but little by the contest, exhibited real patriotism, but where is the merit of those, who safe in insignificance could loose nothing in the storm, and might even hope for a share of plunder in a general shipwreck, 5 who might be raised into impor tance by a turbulency of spirit, and satiate the lust of power by embarking on a troubled ocean? Is there a man among us whose consequence is derived from the calamities of his country, and though she should be plunged in inextricable debts to gratify private ambition, hath a certain exemption from the common calamity? Who can pay nothing, because he has nothing to pay? Timothy, art thou that man? If thou art, then be thou the advocate for war! For inexpiable war! But can you, my countrymen, who feel the weight of it, whose toil, whose riches, and whose blood, must be expended to support it. Can you wish to prolong its distresses, to renew the cries of the orphan and the widow, to increase the number of those who groan in captivity, to add weight to their chains, and aggravate the afflictions of the afflicted. 6
