July 9, 1779 181 Paine’s attack on “Americanus” was the first of a series of three such letters (dated June 26 and July 12 and 17), and it elicited rejoinders by critics other than Morris. For one of these, by another delegate to Congress, see Thomas Burke’s “Epistle,” July 16, 1779. The three essays attacking “Americanus” are conveniently gathered in Paine, Writings (Foner), 2:188—208, where they are placed in the context of Paine’s prolonged struggle with Silas Deane and his allies. In addition, Paine responded to the present attack by “Cato” in a brief letter printed by Benjamin Towne in the July 16 issue of the Evening Post. In that response, he acknowledged his authorship as “Common Sense,” denounced those who “dare not own” what they publish, reprinted his July 26 letter from the Pennsylvania Gazette, and boldly appended his signature “Thomas Paine.” For Morris’ rejoinder to this response from Paine, see Gouverneur Morris to Thomas Paine, July 24, 1779. For discussion of the original “Americanus” essay .that led Paine into the public debate over the fisheries, see Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, June 19, 1779, note 4. See also Max M. Mintz, Gouverneur Morris and the American Revolution (Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1970), pp. 122-24; and the many documents discussing the fisheries issue in these Letters. 2 That is, Thomas Paine. 3 Morris’ draft contains the following passage that was omitted at this point in the printed letter. “To discover then I made myself acquainted with the writers & for the Honor of human Nature I shall conceal the Weaknesses and Wickednesses which guided the Pens of some among them. Conceiving that the Torrent had spent it’s Force I was willing to appear upon the public Stage knowing as I do my own Inability to contend with such adepts in the art of Railing but finding the Attack is again to be renewed.” 4 The following passage from Morris’ draft was omitted at this point in the printed letter. “I hope he may be able to assign virtuous Reasons for his Conduct because I respect his Character as an able Delegate and honest Citizen and if he cannot let the Resent ments of the constitutionalists of Pensilvania pursue him.” 5 Morris’ draft varies somewhat at this point and contains the following alternative passage: “What merit hath he for embarking on a troubled Sea or adding Disquietude [and] Turbulence to these turbulent and unquiet Times? Such Man must know that when Peace and order again smile upon his Country his Consequence will decay, But should she be plunged in inextricable Debts to gratify private Ambition hath a certain Exemption from the common Calamity who can pay Nothing.” 6 The following passage from Morris’ draft was heavily revised in publication. “Ever Since the Question of the Fisheries hath become a publick Topic I have sought for Arguments to support our claim. I find it laid down among the Civilians that fishing Banks may rightfully be held as Property by those who have Force to exclude others and they Instance the Pearl Fisheries which are actually claimed and held in exclusive Right. I find it also laid down among some few of them that it is unjust to exlude any Men from a Participation in the common Gift of Nature such as Air & Water or the Birds which flie and Fish which swim in those Elements. 1 find that Disputes have arisen on this Subject among Nations and altho there has been much Writing and some fighting about it the Point still remains to be settled. As an Ameri can I am of Opinion that America has with all other Nations a common Right to take Fish upon the fishing Banks &ca. and this Right is of such Importance to her that I think she ought never to give it up and if after a Peace Great Britian should disturb us in the Exercise of that Right and after proper Remonstrances made withhold Redress I think we ought to go to war and call on our Allies to help us. On the other Hand tho Great Britain may be very willing to avoid a War with us on this Subject and therefore will probably never interrupt our Fisheries, Yet as she hath constantly maintained a Claim to the Exclusive Right and much of her Policy and foreign Connections are interwoven with this Idea she may find it almost impracticable in positive and express Terms [to] recall her manifold Assertions of that Claim and make an explicit Acknowledgement of our common Right. It would be very unjust as well as impolitic
