July 10, 1779 185 John Fell’s Diary Saturdayjuly 10th [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. Letters, Memorials and Reports from the Board of War and Treasury, Letter from Peter Wickof to Resign the appointment of Clothier General and several other Persons Put in Nomination. Dr Wetherspoon attended Congress to day. 1 MS (DLC). 1 John Witherspoon, a member of the committee appointed to interview the inhabi tants of the New Hampshire Grants, had been absent from Congress since June 4. For the fruits of his mission, see Committee of Congress to John Jay, July 4; and Commit tee of Congress Report, July 13, 1779. John Fell to Robert Morris Dear Sir, Phila. July 10th, 1779 Yesterday your favour was handed me Per Mr. Huston, 1 who I am happy to find by your Recommendation to be so agreeable a Gentleman. I make no doubt he will answer the carracter you give him. Dr Wetherspoon came to Town to day and Dr. Scudder, goes home to morrow Per whom I shall send this as I have heard you was in Monmouth. I am much oblidged to you for the Letter I Reced some time since with the information relating to the appointment of of My Son Peter. 2 He left the Town the next morning but did not acquaint me whether he would accept the Office or not, but by a Letter I Receivd from him by last Post he mentioned Coll Freling huysen having sent for him to Hackinsack, to Receive orders, which matter he did not explain, as the Papers say Coll. Nelson was the Commanding Officer, so that I do not understand the Arrangement at all. New Jersey has this day 4 Delegates in the House but I much doubt there being so many againe in a hurry. Dr. Wetherspoon says the Governor has lately had a lucky escape from 12 Arm’d Horsemen Tories who came to take him. I wish he would live in a Town as I think he would be much safer then in a Country Place. I realy wonder that you venture to live in Monmouth as I have always thought that County, was as bad as Bergen. For my Part I dare not goe home, while the Enemy continue in that neighborhood, indeed I imagine I have very little left to goe too, as I have heard since Mrs. Fell went from hear, that during her absence, her only Wench, which makes the fifth Negroe had gon to the Enemy and has besides Robd the house, (She must be greatly distressd indeed). It is now Past 3 oClock, and not like to break up soon, however as I have not one word of News that can be deppend on or worth writing, I
