July 10, 1779 189 H. L. LB (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 16). 1 Livingston’s June 10 letter is in the Laurens Papers, no. 44, ScHi. 2 New Jersey delegate William Churchill Houston. proposed were not acceptable to Gen Prevost and that they might have been calculated for gaining a day or two in order to complete the fortification and to receive militia reinforcements. Be this as it may there was a Young man an Aid de Camp of our great com mander in Chief who when solicited refused at all hazards “to go out with a flag on any such errand” that whatever were the motives or the propositions of the Council the project as soon as it was known was reprobated by the People and that the voice for a severe scrutiny was loud. Yet I will not censure the Council until they are heard in their own defence—certainly the neglect of that state will be pleaded in apology for the majority of Counsellors 5 to 3. The enemy announced their design to invade South Carolina nine months before they entered it and they were four months in its vicinage distant only the breadth of the river Savanna—upwards of six months had Con gress been recommending to the states of Virginia and North Caro lina to send succors—What succors did those states send? In my last I suggested to your Excellency the seeming necessity for a Grand Council—to day we have received another gleam of light (perhaps glimpse may be a better word; we will adjust the term according to events—but I do not give up the idea of a Grand Council and I have not the smallest doubt of receiving your Excellency’s approbation of the measure when we come to talk the matter over—when will that be? Could I ride on horseback as well as I could twenty years ago it should be on this day sen-night—but I have eat my cake and must be contented. Were I a citizen of a large extended country whose present and future happiness depended upon the yeas or nays of a Council of 20 or 30 I should hold it essential to that happiness to have the wisdom, the experience, the vigilance, the diligence, the virtue of the whole Country concentred in that 20 or 30 and I would admit no birds of passage. Are not long and frequent vacations great impediments to School-boys? Days before they go, all the days they are absent and some days after their return are so many days lost—& what good can be expected from new Scholars. If we get safe on shore we shall look back with equal pleasure and amazement. I have written very freely because your Excellency has encouraged me to do so and because I know to whom I write. I should not much care if every thing I write were published by Rivington, but I hate to have flies buzzing about me, tho’ they are easily brushed off. I pray God to bless your Excellency & I request you Sir to believe that I am with sincere regard & attachment &c.
