190 July 10, 1779 James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir July 10th. 1779 At length I send you with some other things the Baltimore Publication, reprinted by Town in his Evening Post of the 9th. 1 That Print also contains a Peice signed Cato which comes from some of the Gentry who think much of the Prosperity of the Eastern States. 2 Langworthy said himself that he should publish Americanus 2, and he is said by others to publish Cato and to have written O Tempora O Mores. You may judge what Part he has had in those Peices. I doubt not he copied the rough Spec for the Press. We 4 shall give a private Audience 5 on Monday in Consequence of Dispatches reed, last Monday by yr. Neighbour Brewer. They were of old Date. The King is pleased that we have only one Minister at the french Court. We are to know this by finding how much that one has the Confidence of the Court. “As to others what was said it is better for the House to hear.” Ergo an Audience ensues. It will be upon a level Line of Importance with the former parvum in multo; We are enjoyned Secresy before hand; tho Gomez was telling the Story at the Coffee House last Eveng. 6 By the Way, on this Topic of Secresy Smith Says he must tell all his State calls for; and Burke says if certain Ultimata do pass he will immediately let his State know them. Why should not I say if they do not pass I will also tell my State? These same News-Paper Gentry say, in the House, that though Adams & Lee are gone, yet the Supporters of their Measures are left here, wherefore a minority governs. I recon that one Session after the Audience will finish foreign Affairs so far as relates to Ultimata. The Arrangement of the Trea sury will also be finished at the next Tryal; and That, I suppose, will be called finishing the Finance Reports. I forgot to remark above that if Doctr. Franklin has the Confi dence of the French Court it is strange that we have not a Line from him by their Packet. He was, indeed, always very backward of writ ing to the State which employed him, though he was lengthy to Individuals. I verily believe that they folgerize 7 us in France often. I expect that Arthur is to be squinted at if nothing worse in the Audience. For, though the Family of Lee is now linked in public, yet one in Office is too much for the inveterate Party to yeild to. There is great Success against the Indians on the Western Frontiers by Partizan Warriors, but I fear all the Expence will be thrown away upon an excellently well conducted Retreat in the grand Attempt. The Money is to be sent on to the Loan Office by the return Waggons which brought the Condemned Emissions; 8 but, I hope a wise & generous Spirit will show itself among your monied Men to take Loan Certificates instead of Bills for what they now have a
