July 10, 1779 191 Demand for upon the Loan Officer. There seems in this Quarter, a Desire to enable us to stop the Press. Pray encourage such a Disposi tion in your Neighbourhood. Remember me to good Friends and know me assuredly, Sir, yr. affectionate hum Servt. RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). In the hand of James Lovell, though not signed. 1 For this condemnation of Congress by “O Temporal O Mores!” see Lovell to Adams, July 8, 1779, note 1. 2 For the “Peice signed Cato,” see Gouverneur Morris to Benjamin Towne, July 9, 1779. 3 For a discussion of “Americanus,” see Henry Laurens’ Notes of Proceedings, June 19, 1779. 4 Lovell wrote in the margin at this point, “Confidential." 5 This day President Jay informed the delegates that the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, had requested a conference with Congress, ostensibly to commu nicate information that he had recently received from the comte de Vergennes, the French foreign minister. Gerard subsequently met with Congress on Monday, July 12, and Congress then met in committee of the whole on July 13 and 14 to discuss Gerard’s revelations. Another, less obvious reason for the meeting with Congress was to give Gerard an opportunity to break the deadlock over the fisheries question and thus procure peace ultimata more to French liking. According to Gerard’s July 14 letter to Vergennes, the plan for the conference was discussed at a meeting of Gerard with “le President du Congfes et deux autres delegues bien intentionnes.” During this meeting, Gerard explained, they agreed on “un plan propose par le President que se chargea d’announcer au Congres les differentes communications que j’avois a lui faire en vertue de votre derniere depeche et qu’il s’engageroit dans sa prochaine seance a me prier de les lui faire moi meme en plein Comite de la Chambre; que dans mes discours je rapellerois fortement les principes sur lesquels j’avois toujours insiste, et qu’en attendant ils agiroient de leur cote, et qu’ils se pr^vaudroient avec reserve de tout ce que je venois de leur dire pour detacher quelques membres de 1’opposition. Les choses se sont en effet passes ainsi.” Simultaneously, Gerard underscored Vergennes’ insistence that Congress stand by its treaty obligations with France because America’s political existence and prosperity depended on French support—“a une alliance que est la baze essentielle de leur existence politique, et qui est le gage le plus certain de leur future prosperite.” For Vergennes’ February 19, 1779, dispatch to Gerard which provided the occa sion for the latter’s invitation to address Congress, and Gerard’s July 14 report to Vergennes on the conference and the maneuvers preceding the invitation extended to him by President Jay, see Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 533—40, 777—87. For the context of the conference and the substance of what Gerard communicated to Con gress on this occasion, which is drawn from Secretary Thomson’s Secret Journals and two documents in the hand of Henry Laurens containing Gerard’s prepared remarks and accompanying explanatory comments, see JCC, 14:818, 827 — 35. See also Lovell’s letters to Adams and to James Warren of July 13; John Fell’s Diary, July 12, 13, 14; and William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, July 13, 1779. 6 The identity of “Gomez” can not be determined with certitude, but he was clearly a member or former member of Congress who “leaked” information concerning confidential debates in Congress, though probably not Thomas Burke, Edward Langworthy, or Meriwether Smith, who are linked elsewhere in this letter to revela tions of secret congressional affairs. On the other hand, in a January 1780 letter to Adams, Lovell satirically employed the names of William Henry Drayton and John Penn as violators of the secrecy rule. See Lovell tojames Warren, July 13, 1779; and to Samuel Adams, January 28, 1780.
