196 July 12, 1779 shou’d be confined to few hands. As you know the Ocean bears no Vessel more leaky than Congress. Mr. Marchant & my Self have exerted our Selves for your friend Captain Banks—we are indeed oppressed with men in his Situation, and the liberallity of the publick almost worn out, he however has been pritty fortunate at least in dispatch whereof I believe he is Sensible; the Resolution does not Oblige you to make him Town Major, being only meant conditionally & until he can return to Europe or otherwise dispose of his time. 2 I am happy in observing Your Correspondance with the Commander in Chief which is indispensible to the Service, and hope you will indulge me the pleasure of a devoute wish that it be maintain’d in perfect lattitude. I am dear General, with great truth, Affectionately Yours. John Armstrong [P.S.] From the Packet to which you allude nothing of consequence transpired, I think I have heard it called duplicates. We have not yet fully decided on the Fishery, a dish which I hope will always be well relished in America. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Armstrong to Gates, May 22, 1779. 2 For Congress’ denial of the petition ofjohn Valentine Bancke for a commission in the Continental Army, see John Jay to Horatio Gates, July 14, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Monday [July 12, 1779] After the dispatches at 12 oClock, Congress went in to a Commit tee of the whole to have a Conferrence with Mr Gerrard. Mr Law rence was appointed Chairman and Mr Dickinson and Dr Wether spoon Assistance in the Conferrance, after the Minister was gon the Chairman obtaind a writing 1 which was Read, and desired leave to sitt againe. President took the Chair and sundry Reports were read from the Board of War and Treasury. MS (DLC). 1 Fell apparently left space to insert the title of the paper, “Ad Statum Legendi,” that Henry Laurens, “the Chairman,” obtained from Gerard. See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10, 1779, note 5. Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally, Philadia. July 12th. 1779. The News-papers which accompany this will tell you in what
