July 12, 1779 197 manner I spent the two days succeeding your departure; since that I have gone in the old Jogg-trot, attending Congress every day. On Saturday last I dined with Mr. President Jay, who had a chosen company, viz. the Minister of France, Don Juan de Miralles, the President, Vice-President & Secretary of the State, Mr. Brackenridge, Doctor Sheals (lately from Ireland), General Lincoln’s Aid de camp Major Price &C. 1 For the public News I shall refer you to the papers; excepting this, we have good news from abroad. I can communicate no more. I have advertised all my real estate for sale, except my Possessions at Newcastle &c. In this Act I have two things in view, the first, to serve my country, by shewing I have a greater regard for the Conti nental paper currency than for land, which at this critical period will have an effect upon it, as I know it will occasion speculation; at least I shall thereby be enabled to serve the General cause by lending the United States some money if I sell: the second view is to sell to advantage and to have it in my power to purchase some valuable plantation, whereon I may live cheap, and spend the remainder of my days in comfort in some healthy & good part of the country, and I shall not be scrupulous about buying the estate of a Traitor, which is confiscated; or if I shall find it more beneficial employ my money in trade, at least for a season. The family is well, except Nancy, whose boils have been very troublesome, especially one on her throat just under the chin: she is however dosing with cream of tartar & flour of sulphur mixed with molasses, and is getting better. Your difficulties at Schuylkill ferry with the new horse I have heard, but nothing more concerning you since you left home. I suppose the harvest prevents travelling, or I cannot find out at what Inns the people from Newcastle &c. put up. Pray, enquire particularly of John Clark Esquire Sheriff, John Thompson Esq. or Mr. William McClay, whether either or which of them has the deeds & papers for Mr. Montgomery’s lands &c. at the Bridge, now belonging to Mr. & Mrs. Willday and Robert Montgo mery, and let me know, who has them. If you can get them, send them to me by the first good hand. The children give their duty to you, and their love to their sister Sally. I must beg you’ll present my affectionate regard to Mr. & Mrs. Vn Laivenigh, Mr. & Mrs. Thompson, my brother & his wife, Mr. & Mrs. Finney and to Mr. & Mrs. Dunn, and to all & singular my friends who inquire for me. Kiss my dear little Sall for me, and believe that I am, with all,[. . .], Dear Sally, Your, Thos.M:Kean P. S. Three thousand British have landed at New-Haven in Con necticut, 2 & hold Mr. Sherman’s (a member of Congress) wife & children prisoners, 3 plundered the town &c., but they will not stay long there.
