July 12, 1779 199 The Committee that was sent to the Grants are returned, that is two of them, viz. Dr. Witherspoon & Mr. Atlee, these were to be joined by two Gentn from Connecticut but the Dr. was in so great a hurey that he and Atlee set off the day before the others arrived, whether a report will be received from these two, is not yet deter mined. 3 I am happy to find the Court have determined to lay in their Claim to that Territory but I could wish nothing had been said in the vote, of Vermont being an Independent State. It gives me great pleasure that the people are sensible of the necessaty of Taxing, certainly no other mode can effectually retrieve the credit of the Currency, that, with some other measures I trust will do it. Regulating prices by the several Town may answer a good temporary purpose, till other measures have time to operate. The exertions of New Hampshire for raising men &c have ever been at least equal to any state in the Union this has always afforded me particular satisfaction. I cannot however help expressing a wish that the measures now adopted had engaged the attention of the Court at an earlier period. The accots. from S. Carolina fall infinitely short of the reports that first reached this place & from hence was circu lated with great embellishments but I still flatter myself we shall have a good accot of the Ravagers in that Country, I must refer you to the Newspapers for the situation of affairs there. One ship with public stores & some other vessels are arrived in Chesepeak Bay from france, they sailed in Company with a fleet of 70 sail transports having from 10 to 13,000 Troops on board Bound for the west Indias under Convoy of five ships of the line & some Frigates, this reinforcement I shod think will enable Count D’Estaing to look Byron in the face. 4 With great sincerity I am Your affecte. Friend & Humle Sert, Wm. Whipple RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Bartlett’s June 19 and 25 letters to Whipple are in Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 257-58 and 260-61. 2 Bartlett had enclosed copies of New Hampshire’s proposed constitution in his June 19 letter. The constitution, which had just been written by a convention at Concord, was subsequently rejected by the state’s voters. Jere R. Daniell, Experiment in Republicanism: New Hampshire Politics and the American Revolution (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1970), pp. 169—70. 3 A letter from “the two Gentn from Connecticut”—Oliver Ellsworth and Jesse Root—was read in Congress this day. For their explanation of their mission to Vermont, and the report of John Witherspoon and Samuel Atlee that was submitted the follow ing day, see Committee of Congress to John Jay, July 4; and Committee of Congress Report, July 13, 1779. 4 These French naval and army reinforcements enabled the comte d’Estaing to capture Grenada on July 4 and to foil Admiral John Byron’s efforts to recapture the island on July 6. See Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), pp. 160—61; and William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity (London: Longmans, Green & Co., 1926), pp. 145 — 52.
