200 July 12, 1779 William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear sir, Philadelphia, 12th July 1779 Your two favors of the 20th & 28th ulto have come to hand since my last respects to you. I heartily wish the good news from Carolina was confirmed in its full extent, but you’ll find by the newspapers that the true account falls infinitely short. When I mentioned the reports in my letters, I think I did with caution; for though the reports came many ways, not having authentic accounts prevented my placing so much confidence in the reports as many did—how ever our affairs in that country by no means wear an unfavorable aspect. I have not so unfavorable an opinion of the regulations of the several towns as you seem to have. I am inclined to think they may answer a good temporary purpose at this critical juncture till mea sures have time to operate. Several ships are arrived in Chesapeake Bay from France— they sailed with a fleet of 70 sail transport, convoyed by 5 ships of the line and several frigates bound to the West Indies, having on board from 10 to 13000 troops. Will not this reinforcement enable the Count to look Byron in the face. If our ally could gain one capital advantage by sea it would give a glorious turn to our affairs—but we ought not, and I hope do not depend on any thing but our own exertions and Heaven’s smiles—these would soon accomplish our utmost wishes, if Avarice, that bane to true felicity was banished from the Human Breast—but this is a work beyond the reach of mortals, therefore needless for you and I to attempt it, any farther than respects ourselves—so far Heaven has given us the power which I hope we shall improve for the good of Society. I am with ususal esteem, and friendship, your most obt hble servt, Wm. Whipple. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). William Carmichael to Charles Carroll of Carrollton Dear Sir 13th July 1779 I hope your intended Jaunt will answer in every respect the Object you propose by it & that Mrs. Carrols health will be perfectly reestablished. I shall continue to write regularly to you to the care of Miss Goddard & shall be always happy to contribute to Mr Carrols amusement. I fear he will not find much in Letters generally written in haste or when spite of itself the mind is crouded with too many Objects from the occurrences that continually agitate it. The Press
