July 13, 1779 201 here is filled with publications that are rather imprudent or breathe too much the Spirit of personal rancor & animosity. Townes evening post contains the latest of these, but the run for the paper was immediately so great, that altho’ I sent instantly to the press, I was not able to procure a paper. 1 I suppose they will be republished in Other papers. Goddard I find has paid for General Lees satyr. 2 I saw the queries or most of them last Winter & advised the person who showed them to me, not to be concernd in the publication. I hear G. Lee intends to send us his resignation with a thundering letter in the Stile of the times against Congress. Letters of the 20th Ulmo. from St. Eustatia say that the Ct. D’Estaing has taken St. Vincents. 3 I knew that he was at Martinique the 9th. This last reinforcement will cer tainly enable Him to cope with the Enemy, various reports of the Enemys movements to the Eastward have reached us none from authority. Prizes arrive here every week. If our State can preserve itself from the folly of regulation untill, it sees whether all the neighbouring states have adopted it, We shall soon have more mer chandise of all kinds amongst us than in half the other States. I am, Your Obliged & Humble Sert, Wm. Carmichael RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). 1 Carmichael is apparently referring to the July 9 issue of Benjamin Towne’s Pennsylvania Evening Post which reprinted an article by “O Temporal O Mores!” that was highly critical of Congress. See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 8, 1779, note 2. 2 A reference to the bitter denunciation of General Washington that had appeared anonymously in the form of 25 “Queries, political and military” in the July 6 issue of the Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser. Although the paper was nominally printed by Mary Katherine Goddard, it was under the control of her brother William, who was hailed before the radical Whig Club of Baltimore and forced to reveal Charles Lee’s authorship of the offending “satyr” and to sign a statement that he had “transgressed against truth, justice, and my duty as a good citizen." The episode has been discussed at length in John R. Alden, General Charles Lee: Traitor or Patriot? (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1951), pp. 279-85; and Ward L. Miner, William Goddard, Newspaperman (Durham, N. C.: Duke University Press, 1962), pp. 168-73. 3 This report, from “the Brig Holker, Captain Gaddis,” was printed in the July 13 issue of John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet. For the West Indian operations of the comte d’Estaing that led to the capture of St. Vincent on June 17, 1779, see Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton, NJ.: Princeton Univer sity Press, 1975), p. 160. Committee of Congress Report on Vermont [July 13, 1779] Mr. Witherspoon & Mr. Atlee two of the Members of the Commit tee appointed to go to the New hampshire Grants beg leave to lay before Congress the following Acct of their Proceedings. 1 That as soon after their Appointment as they had Reason to think
