206 July 13, 1779 mean that England will expressly acknowlege our Independance; the pride of George will not submit; but she may treat with us as an Independant people notwithstanding provided our demands are not unreasonable, which the French Court are in apprehension about, and therefore trust that moderation and a well-guaranteed peace ought not to be despised in our low circumstances. The Enemy with a body of five thousand men have plundered and destroyed New- haven™ in Connecticut; they carried off the wife and children of old Shearman the member of Congress; yesterday he left this City full of anxiety and trouble; I pity the Lady and Children exceedingly, but I have no tender feelings for the old fellow on many accounts. & am Sir, Yours most affly., A. B. NB. Not ascertained to satisfaction. Two papers enclosed, because I do not know whether you get them regularly. I suppose you do not pay postage. RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). In Griffin’s hand, though not signed. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:34-35. 1 Lt. Gov. Henry Hamilton, whom George Rogers Clark had captured when he retook Vincennes in February 1779, had been sent as a prisoner to Williamsburg where the Virginia Council reveiwed his case and ordered on June 16 that he “be put into irons, confined in the dungeon of the publick jail, debarred the use of pen, ink, and paper, and excluded all converse.” The council’s proceedings were transmitted to John Jay in Governor Jefferson’s letter of June 19. See ibid., pp. 4 — 5; and PCC, item 71, 1:245. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia July 13th, 1779. Since I had the honor of addressing you last, Majr. Rice has arrived here from General Lincoln’s head quarters, the printed accounts brought by him I inclose, but from the best intelligence, I have reason to believe, the General is apprehensive that the state of South Carolina will fall into the hands of the enemy, owing in part, to many of his army being militia, whose times are near expired. I understand the money, out of circulation, sent by Mr. Appleton is safe arrived here, and congress have ordered a like sum in other bills to be sent forward to exchange the same; 1 I’m sorry to find so great a part is likely to go again into circulation, but possibly the late resolutions of congress respecting a loan, may in part prevent it. It would give me pleasure to hear what the honble. court has done, in consequence of the resolutions of congress, for raising 45,000,000 dollars by taxes, for I think it is in vain, for us to suppose, that we can carry on the war by paper emissions much longer. Yesterday congress resolved themselves into a comee. of the whole,
