July 13, 1779 209 2 Congress’ “opinion” is not recorded in the journals, but see Committee of Con gress to John Jay, July 4; and Committee of Congress Report, July 13, 1779. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir July 13th. 1779. If Genl. Warren is not at Hand open the inclosed. I shall add but little here. You know that we united in Opinion that it was trifling for such an Assembly as Congress to stipulate conditionally in regard to peace, as the sine qua non would be calf-carried 1 immediately out of the House, and no other Instructions would stand a Chance to be prevalent. I am more than ever convinced of such Consequences to be apprehended. Our 2 Treaty of Alliance being published to please Chase & some others has had this pretty Effect viz. England seing the VIII Article, & knowing both France & Spain disposed to Peace, & finding the latter obliged only to wait for an alternative Assurance of our Independence, will never be explicit, while a tacit Conduct of the great Point can be made to suffice. 3 Your Experience of the Disposition of Persons & Things here will lead you to conclude readily that much Time will be wasted on a Decision ill becoming our former Spirit be made. The Western Parade 4 has nearly broken the back of our grand army. D’Estaing can not face Byron, Sth. Carolina is in a very poor Condition, can you then look for Spirit where you know it was not six months ago? The Court of France is greatly pleased with our having but one minister there & that one Doctr. Franklin. We shall soon see that Confidence will “no longer be withheld.” 5 Here is a Field open anew. Whereas the Information is only to do Justice to some past Practices for the Words are in a Comment of Mr. G ’s 6 upon the instruction given him to signify the Preference of one to three. The Comtee. are returned from Vermont. Witherspoon & Attlee did not wait for the arrival of the others so that it proves an Abortion as we empowered any three to act. It is true the others when they arrived did not find any Thing further to do than what was signified to them by Letter from these the doings of whom they approve by their Arrival. But it is too delicate an Affair to proceed in without going by critical Lines. The People expect to be heard regularly before any formal Decission is made concerning them. This will “wound the Feelings” of some Gentlemen if not of a whole State if complied with; and it will mar all our past Endeavours not to comply with it. 7 You have found Boston in the old Figure as to Territory. Is your Name & your Fame still the Object of the malice of “your Friend.” 8
