July 13, 1779 211 day but under the Injunctions of the House for Secresy, so that A & B will be stigmatized if they communicate the Substance in a private confidential Letter, should they be discovered, while C & D, under the Signature of Americanus or O Tempora O Mores', may publish the whole to the World in a News Paper? I find that Gentlemen in your Neighbourhood are rather back ward to accept a Delegation to Congress. The Reasons lay fair to Conjecture. Some cannot in Conscience & Honor hold several Appointments incompatible with each other; & Some cannot bring themselves to consent to sacrifice Time, Health & Estate for a Sta tion of Abundant Anxiety and an equal Portion of Obloquy. I pre sume that all new elected Members ought to come forward before an old one though he has had a whole years Respite. One of your State would have had a terrible time here for several months back if he had been an acting Deligate. 3 He must have gone against the Inter ests of his Constituents or the Designs of his favorite old Associates. Mrs. Lovell writes that you had a Confirmation of the Sth. Carolina good news by a Vessel in at the Hyannas. I am sorry for that prepara tory Contract to what I now must tell you. The Print of last Tuesday is full on the Head of Disappointment; and Genl Lincoln writes me June 5th. “Matters are not going on right here & if this Department is not immediately attended to by Congress and an army sent more respectable that the one already here, this State must be lost. You will see by my Letter to Congress that by the [10th?] of Augst. there will be but few troops on the Ground unless reinforcements arrive, which I have little reason to expect.” I will not venture to write to you concerning the State of our grand army. I will leave that for Major Rice to tell with the Minute Anecdotes of the southern Department With Esteem & Affection, Your hmb Servt. J.L. RC (Warren-Adams Papers). 1 See Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10, 1779. 2 For discussion of the recent publications of “Americanus” and “O Tempora! O Mores!,” who openly aired matters that should not have been made public under Congress’ secrecy rule, see Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 8, note; and July 10, 1779, note 6. 3 The identity of this person is not known. The Massachusetts delegates who were elected but not attending in 1779 were Francis Dana, Timothy Edwards, and John Hancock. Gouverneur Morris to John Chaloner and James White Gentlemen Phila. 13th July 1779 I have ordered about 6000 Barrils of Flour to be delivered to the issuing Commissary at Baltimore, you will make proper Arrange-
