July 14, 1779 215 of Plenty. Our Barns are fast crouding with the Substantials of Life; and while Health smiles around Us, let not Our Nerves be unstrung, Let Us not forget that We still have an Enemy, an implacable Enemy to contend with for the Continuance of all our Blessings—For Liberty, Peace and a glorious Independency. With Earnest Desires that we may not Forfeit such Blessings, but that this Year may end with Peace in all Our Borders; but till Then, that we recall the Remem brance of Our first Exertions and reannimate Ourselves into great and noble Self Denials and conspicuous Actions; We are Your Excel- lencys most obedient and very humble, Hy Marchant John Collins [P.S.] We enclose Your Excellency the Weekly Journal, which has been sent in course ever since they were published weekly to June 5 1779. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant and Collins. 1 General Washington had reported in a July 9 letter that because of the British raid in Connecticut he had “directed Glover’s Brigade to halt in Connecticut at this inter esting Crisis till farther Orders.” PCC, item 152, 7:519-23; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:389—93. 2 Marchant, along with John Armstrong and Samuel Huntington, constituted this “special committee.” It remained inactively in existence until November 13, 1779, when it was discharged on its own motion after the British evacuated Newport, R. I. JCC, 14:822, 15:1266. See also Rhode Island Delegates to Greene, August 10, 1779. 3 See William Whipple to John Langdon, July 12, 1779, note 1. John Dickinson’s Draft Circular Letter Sir, [July 14? 1779] 1 It is judg’d expedient by Congress immediately to communicate the following very important Intelligence to the several United States. The Minister of France informs Us, “that the Exertions of these States are necessary to avert their Dangers, & prevent a prolonga tion of the present Contest—that his Master expects Efforts, that will on our part produce a vigorous & successful Campaign and bring the Common Enemy to a proper sense of the Disappointments he shall meet with.” By all the Advices We have receiv’d, it appears, that Great Britain is determined to make a most strenuous Attempt before the Cam paign closes, for obtaining a decided superiority on this Continent, that for this purpose she sends out a large Reinforcement, and has rejected the Mediation offered by Spain. If she shall be able to carry this Design into Execution, it may be attended with very unhappy Consequences, as it will probably engage foreign powers to form Alliances for her support in this War.
