July 14, 1779 217 Samuel Holten’s Diary [July 14-15, 1779] 14. Wednesday. It is said the enemy have burnt Farefield in Con necticut. 1 15. Thursday. I attended the funeral of the Honl. Geo. Ross Esqr. at 9 oClock A. M. 2 I reed, by Mr. Millet a letter from Colo. Hutchinson & Mrs. Holten. MS (MDaAr). 'John Fell indicated that news of the July 7—8 attack and burning of Fairfield was sent to Congress by Roger Sherman. John Fell’s Diary, July 15, 1779. 2 George Ross, a former Pennsylvania delegate to Congress, had recently been appointed judge of the state’s admiralty court. John Jay to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia 14th July 1779 Altho’ Congress have a high Sense of Capt. Bancke, yet the pres ent Arrangement of the Army will not admit of their employing him agreeable to his wishes. By advancing him a sum of money they have put it in his power to return to Europe, & till a proper Opportunity shall offer, refer it to your discretion to employ him in any manner consistent with the Good of the Service and the Captain’s Inclinations. 1 I feel much for this gentelman’s distressed Situation, & am happy that Congress have placed him under the Patronage of a Gentleman so well dispossed to releive him. The Capt. has a copy of the Act of Congress on the Subject which he will communicate to You. 1 should enclose one, but the Secretary has not yet sent it, & as the Capt. will set out before the office opens, I must defer it till my next dispatch. I have the honor to be Sir, Your most Obedient & Humble Servant. [P.S.] Since writing the above I have received a copy of the Act of Congress, And transmit it herewith. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Congress’ denial of John Valentine Bancke’s petition for a Continental commis sion was tempered by the grant of $3,000 to him “in consideration of. . . the expenses he has incurred by coming to these States and ... to enable him to return to Europe.” JCC, 14:816, 847. Bancke had also been granted $500 previously, which was the subject of the follow ing brief July 19 letter from President Jay to Joseph Clarke, Continental loan officer for Rhode Island. “You will receive herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 8th Inst, directing a warrant to issue on the Treasurer in your favor for a sum of money to be paid to Capt. John Valentine Bancks.” See JCC, 14:811; and PCC, item 14, fol. 151.
