218 July 14, 1779 John Jay to the States Sir, (Circular) Philadelphia 14th July 1779. I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 9th Inst, 1 vesting the Executive Powers of each state with further Authority respecting Persons employed in the Quarter Master General, or purchasing, or issuing Commissary General’s Departments 2 —And am, With great Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obed’t Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 14:812—15. This July 9 resolve not only vested “further authority” in the states, but also “earnestly requested” them “to make the strictest enquiry” into the conduct of every quartermaster and commissary officer in each state. The decision reflected Congress’ inability to wield and direct Continental authority or adequately supervise its agents, and predictably elicited a pained response from Quartermaster General Nathanael Greene, who concluded that placing such power over his deputies in the hands of state executives would give “the last finishing stroke” to his department. The immediate background of this decision, Greene’s response to it, and Congress’ rejection of his recommendations for relief from the resolution are discussed in Risch, Supplying Washington’s Army, pp. 49—50. For another analysis of Congress’ attempts to supervise commissaries and quartermasters, which focuses on the popular belief “that corruption was widespread in the staff departments” but challenges the view that the July 9 resolve simply represented “an abdication of responsibility by Congress,” see E. Wayne Carp, To Starve the Army at Pleasure: Continental Army Adminis tration and American Political Culture, 1775—1783 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1984), pp. 113 — 24. 2 Jay also sent copies of this resolve to Nathanael Greene and Commissary General Jeremiah Wadsworth with brief cover letters of July 15. PCC, item 14, fol. 150. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Bryan Dear Sir. Philadelphia the 14th July 1779. I received but a few days Since your Letter of the 20th June. Almost in the same moment in which your favor by Genl. Thomson reached me, I was informed that your self & Mr. Bryan your Son were gone from New York under a flag for Georgia. This false intelligence restrained my pen & stopped the progress of a Letter from Mrs. Bryan which will now accompany this. I have cut the paper from the Seal, knowing the impropriety of attempting to send sealed packets to a prisoner of War without special permission, but I am totally ignorant of the contents, the signature only excepted. I have before me a Letter from Mr. Houston dated the 5th June Mrs. Bryan & your family were then well. Congress will not consent to exchange Citizens taken in the man ner you were captured, all Solicitation on that head would be fruitless. If the Commander in Chief of His Britanic Majesty’s forces at New York will permit you to return to Georgia on parole & your Son also,
