July 14, 1779 219 I will pledge my honor that a suitable exchange shall be made or that both shall be forth coming whenever a demand shall be made; & when I reflect on the many instances of similar consideration which on our part have been extended to British Officers who have been in peculiar circumstances, I cannot help concluding that an appliction to Sir Henry Clinton will meet with success. 1 I am persuaded if Sir Henry knew of the many acts of kindness which as an individual I have shewn to British prisoners he would not hesitate a moment, even upon my request for your enlargement on the terms abovementioned. Your Letter of the 20th June intimates that you had sent others, for your Family & friends, none such came to my hands, you must either have omitted them, or they have been arrested in their passage. You Sir, who have been Schooled in the doctrine of Christian fortitude,will not suffer your Spirits to sink under a light weight, reflect that you are on Long Island, where you enjoy wholsome air & have a proper scope for exercise, the contracted sphere of a Ships hold occupied by an hundred inmates might, from an old Man, extort a groan. In your present situation be thankful, a little practice will make you chearful. My Compliments to your Son & beleive me to be with an affection ate regard, Dear Sir &ca. H. L. [P. S.] I shall write in two or three days to Mrs. Bryan & Mr. Houstoun. 2 Tr (G-Ar). In the hand of James Custer and addressed by Laurens: "Jonathan Bryan Esquire of Georgia now Prisoner of War, Long Island.” 1 Although he had originally been informed by Georgia governor John Houstoun of Bryan’s capture by the British, Laurens had also heard directly from Bryan in a letter of February 7, 1779, which is in PCC, item 78, 3:283 — 86. In it Bryan had recounted the circumstances of his capture and the difficulties he was having in coping with confinement on board a prison ship—as he was “considerably advanc’d of Seventy Years.” Despite Laurens’ optimism, Bryan was unable to secure his release until the autumn of 1780, in the aftermath of which he appealed for assistance to the delegates of South Carolina and Georgia for compensation for losses he had suffered before his captivity. The committee to whom his case was referred reported favorably on his claim, and on November 25, 1780, Congress endorsed the committee’s recommen dation. See JCC, 18:1031, 1053, 1092, 1094, 1099; and PCC, item 59, 3:37-38, item 78, 4:41-44. 2 Only Laurens’July 16 letter to John Houstoun has been found. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Dear sir. Philadelphia 14th July 1779 I had the honor of addressing you under the 29th Ulto. & since that, of receiving your favor of the 26th by Capt. Banck. 1 This Gen-
