222 July 15, 1779 ing the terms of the appointment has declined it, & Lieut Colonel Percifer Frazer was yesterday elected. Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 13th Inst, for forming Captain McClane’s Company & the dismounted Dragoons of Major Lee’s Corps into a fourth troop to be added to that Corps. 2 I have the honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s most Obed Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 14:822. Washington’s July 9 letter is in PCC, item 152, 7:519—24, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:389-93. 2 For Congress’ resolve formally annexing Capt. Allen McLane’s company from the Delaware Regiment to the dismounted dragoons of Maj. Henry Lee’s Legion, see JCC, 14:822—23; and Wright, The Continental Army, pp. 273, 348—49. This day Jay also enclosed this resolve with a brief letter to Henry Lee, who had recently sought congressional clarification of McLane’s status. See PCC, item 14, fol. 149, item 78, 14:265—70. For evidence that McLane and some of his officers had attempted to prevent the merger of their company with Lee’s corps that had previously been ordered by Washington, see Delaware Delegates to Allen McLane, July 5, 1779. Francis Lewis to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir, Phila 15th July 1779. I embrace this opportunity by Mr. Rosevelt to transmit you the several news papers lately published together with abstracts of the proceedings in Congress, which by their Resolves are hence forward to be published weekly, from these you will be enabled to collect most of the material occurrences transacted here. By a Vessell that lately arrived from Nantes Congress have received letters from their Commissioners at Paris, 1 informing that the Brit ish King is still positive, and obstinately bent upon carrying on the War with Vigor, this and perhaps another Campaign in America, but in their opinion his resources will be inadequate to the end. They also inform Congress that the expedition against New Haven was planned in the British Cabinet, but being novices to the Geogra phy of the Country, the Troops were by that plan to proceed up Connecticut river to Wethersfield, after distroying that, proceed across the country and distroy Fairfield & New Haven, they were repulsed at the latter, but effected their diabolical plan at Fairfield, which you have ere this, undoubtedly heard the particulars off. From these their proceedings, it is evident that they purpose carry ing on a predatory war against these States, therefore in my humble opinion it would not be advisable at present for Mrs. Livingston to prosecute her plan of building, as first intended. We have of late several arrivals both in this and the Chesapeake Bays, so that the prices of foreign Commoditys begin to lower. The resolutions of the various Committees has added to the cause, these
