July 15, 1779 223 resolutions for regulating the prices will I believe become general, as the Town of Boston has unanimously come into similar resolutions, & transmitted them for the approbation of Congress, & I hope it may have the desired effect. The Army too has adopted the mode. Youl oblige me in communicating this with the perusal of the news-papers to the Governor, to whom please to present my Compli ments, as also to your Lady & the family at Clear Mount, I am sincerly, Sir, your very Humble Servant, Fra. Lewis P. S. Permit me to observe, that the little state of New Jersey allow their Delegates twenty dollars each per diem, Virginia forty. The Massachusetts Bay allow a Table & all other expences. A New York Delegate cannot furnish a Dinner & Clean shirt, for his twelve dollars, at the present depreciated rates of our money, which you must be convinced off when last at this place. RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee, July 16, 1779. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia July 15th. 1779 Immediately on receiving your favor of May 26th last, we laid before Congress the Several Matters wherewith you charged us; 1 but, unavoidable interventions have prevented our obtaining their Resolution on them all, previous to the date hereof. The intense heat of this Season, and the great length of the march, make it almost certain, that an order for the North Carolina Troops to Join the Southern army, would be attended with Consequences, fatal to their health, and Such as must deprive the public of their Services, every where, during this Campaign, if not forever, it was therefore Judged most expedient, to postpone Such orders, until they can be executed with out Such imminent hazard of Inconve nience. 2 The Resolutions relative to the decried Emissions, 3 are the best which we have been able to obtain; altho, in our Opinion, they are not altogether So well Calculated for the relief of the Sufferers, especially in our Country, as they might have been. But the measure, by which they were decried, and from which great public good was expected, has Still many advocates in Congress, notwithstanding the Experience of all parts of America groans under the Evils it has produced. The Congress has, with great reluctance, granted, even the partial payment of your draught in our favor. 4 The Continental Currency is so much depreciated, that every one Sees the Necessity of putting an entire Stop to emissions; and relying on the Exertions of the States for Supplying the public Necessaries. The Power of the States,
