236 July 16, 1779 James Lovell to Benjamin Lincoln Dear Sir July 16th, 1779 With little expectation of finding you at Charlestown 1 I take up my Pen to acknowledge the Receipt of your Favor of July 5th by Majr. Rice. Your own Mortifications at the State of Affairs in Sth. Carolina cannot near equal ours because You cannot suffer from the Contrast of a firm Belief that the british Force was totally ruined on or about the 12th of May. Thus was told us by 20 different Channels. The Enemy are making scandalous War in Connecticutt. They have burnt the beatiful Town of Fairfield and quite plundered New Haven. Whether these Doings will rouse a general Effort to drive them from their present Nest on York Island Time must show, it ought to be attempted most certainly, and every Sea Captain we have should endeavor to show what Burning War is by Samples in Gr. Britain. I am most deeply engaged in preparing Dispatches for France Via Boston, and must therefore quit you with Assurances of much Regard, Your Friend & humb Servant, James Lovell [P.S.] It is probable that Mr. John Adams is in America. On the 6th of April Arthur Lee had Intelligence of the Design upon Fairfield; but contrary Winds and Captures of his originals have prevented our getting seasonable Warning. RC (MiU—C: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For Congress’ acceptance of General Lincoln’s resignation from command of the southern department, see John Jay to Lincoln, May 15, 1779. Lincoln nevertheless remained in command of the southern army at Charleston until its surrender to the British in May 1780. James Lovell to Joseph Reed July 16th. 1779 2’o Clock P.M. I inclose to your Excellency some papers this moment received. 1 Your most humble Servant, James Lovell 18th. Your Excellency will conceive that the Opposition of the Continental Commissaries of Prisoners &c. &c. has occasined a Multiplication of Words in the Resolve, and not a vain wish to blazon a small Act of Complaisance from one State to another. RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 'James Lovell sent President Reed a June 9, 1779, resolve of the Massachusetts Council authorizing the exchange of a Massachusetts prisoner for William Coats, the lieutenant of the County of Philadelphia, who was imprisoned by the British in New York. When the exchange was completed is not known, but Coats resumed his official duties in October 1779. See Pa. Council Minutes, 12:51 — 52; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser.
