July 16, 1779 237 7:763-64. For the background of this exchange, see Lovell to John Avery, May 17, 1779, note. Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally Philadelphia. July 16th. 1779. Since my last nothing new has occurred here of any consequen ces—Mr. Borden is in Town; all are well at Bordentown & here. Yesterday morning I accompanied the remains of the Honble. George Ross Esq, Judge of the Admiralty, to his grave in Christ-church Burying-ground—Francis Hopkinson Esquire is to be his succes sor 1 —So much respecting two of the Republican Society, so naming themselves. Edward Biddle Esquire is carried to Reading in a low state of health, there to deposit his remains, as it is thought he cannot live many days. 2 I have not yet sold any lands, and I believe I shall only sell as much as will enable me to buy a house in town. The enemy have proceeded from New-Haven to Fairfield, and, it is said, have burnt it; a deserter from their army, who left them there says, they had a Major General, a Brigadier General & 120 privates killed by the Connecticut Militia. 3 It is also said, that the whole of the British Army in South Carolina are killed or taken prisoners, excepting abt. 200, in a late Engagement. These are only reports, and I have been taught to credit nothing but what is received officially by Congress. I mentioned that we were all well, but Robert has been very ill the last night with a vomiting & purging and still continues so. Give my love to all my friends. Dont let Sally forget us. Adieu. Your affectionate, Tho M:Kean [P.S.] Captn. O’Hara will forward this with the News-papers of Tuesday, Wednesday & Yesterday. RC (PHi: McKean Papers). 1 Former delegate Hopkinson, who had been chairman of the Continental Navy Board from November 1776 to August 1778 and had become treasurer of loans in July 1778, served as judge of admiralty for Pennsylvania until 1789. DAB. 2 A former member of the Pennsylvania assembly and delegate to Congress in 1774—75, Biddle died on September 5, 1779. Bio. Dir. Cong. 3 In a letter of July 20 to his wife, McKean elaborated on the consequences of the British raid on Connecticut. “The British are committing actions of cruelty hitherto unthought of even by themselves, such as murdering old men, ravishing women & little girls, burning houses with the inhabitants in them, burning the barns with the grain in them, cuting down all fruit trees, &c. &c. The militia have sent some hundreds of them to Hell in the midst of their iniquities, and I have great reason to hope some hundreds more will be sent after them before they leave Connecticut.” McKean Papers, PHi.
