July 17, 1779 251 success & that I am with great Esteem & Regard, Your obedient & most humble servt, Henry Laurens. Tr (DLC: Edmund C. Burnett Collection). Endorsed: “Copied from the original then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 A copy of Lincoln’s June 5 letter to Laurens is in his letterbook in the Lincoln Papers, MHi. s See Laurens to Jonathan Bryan, July 14, 1779. 3 Ellipsis in tr. James Lovell to Arthur Lee Dear Sir Private Philada. July 17th. 1779 I wrote to you on the 13 th of June, but to my Surprise found the Letter in the commercial Committee Rooms on the 10 th of July, the Martinico man having left it behind though he took the Journals & Gazettes to be forwarded by Mr. Bingham to France & the Hague. My above mentioned Letter was sent under Cover to Mr. Adams to the Care of Doctr. Franklin, it seems Mr. A will have left France before the Polacre comd. by Capt. Sapet can reach it. 1 It is needless to copy the whole as, now, the Weeks of the Journals are printed to which I there referred largely. Some parts however I shall now repeat. Extr June 13. “The Term recalled having been used in regard to Wm. Lee and Rph. Izard with an Idea strenuously supported by some of bringing them to America, tho others who were affirmative meant only vacating the Commissions a second Resolve passed that they need not repair to America. I give them no official notice now nor shall I without the particular order of Congress because I am again left alone, your Brother Richd. having resigned his Seat as I hear, and gone home; and further, because something definitive ought to be decided in regard to Compensation for Services of the Commis sioners. “An attempt has several times lately been made to chuse a new Committee of for. Affrs. instead of filling up the old one. This you will perceive to be singularly decent towards the one who had stead ily attended. Nay it is said that such a Comtee. is useless. I am sure I find an immense deal that ought to be done, and have found a great Burthen in what has been done by a Member of Congress without Secretary or Clerk, little as you and the other Gentlemen abroad may have been benefited by my Labors. Quires of my Writing have been sunk in the Seas most of it near these Capes. “I expect further attempts to get rid of you. It was a fear of that and a desire to scrutinize Mr. D that made Mr Laurens, I imagine, give into the late motion. 3 But I think you will rise above the Malice of the Faction which you have long known or, if you find your Useful-
