252 July 17, 1779 ness destroyed, you will readily tell us so, and desire to make way for some other person. I have by me large packets left by yr. Brother, with Copies of Proceedings respecting you, but I will not send them round about as a Frigate must soon go directly from hence, or at least a Pacqt. Boat. I tell Mr. J Adams more on that head. I suspect Roguery in the Stoppage of yr. Letters; how else is it that we have not a Line from any of you? “Mr. S Adams goes home Tomorrow—for good & all as he says. This goes Via Cadiz, a Copy via Martinque. “Your Friend and humble Servant, JL. “Vid Journals, Apr 6, 15, 20, 21, 22, 26, 28, 30, May 3, 22, 24, 25, 27, June 8, 10. “Letters from A Lee, Aug. 7, 11, 21, 27, 31, Sep 9, 30, Oct 19 P.S. Nov 29, Novr. 4, 15, 18, 20.” I will now, Sir, add a few remarks. Your Quotation from Whitlock I have read in the Congress to strengthen what I have often urged there. 4 Nothing can more naturally suggest itself to a Politician, one would think yet I have affirmed Truth when I told you that the Comtee. was said to be now an useless Institution. What remark am I to now make upon some of yr. Conduct refera ble to the 5th Line of the 3d page of this Sheet? 5 I will not trust my own Judgement, but I suspect your most steady friends here will differ. I presume you meant to take their Opinions as you could not at such a distance judge of all Circumstances. Else why cover to R H or F. L. 6 At present a Veil of Secresy is on the Business, as well as on that committed to R. H. or F. L. or J. L. 7 Your Letter defensery has been read. 8 Yr. first Letter to Shelburn brought that Water up to the Eyes of some, who are evidently unfriendly to you, which is the Consequence of strong unexpected Admiration. The Letter from Jennings and your Answer are as valuable as a marble Pillar erected to the honor of yr. Probity and prophetic sound Judgement. Beux’s is as honorary to him as a sensible spirited Gentleman as it is disgrace ful to others. All the other Vouchers were familiar to me. I have been so engaged & so unwell that I have only had the single chance of listning in Congress; but I shall renew my Pleasure soon. The Report respectg. Supporting the Ministers was again recom mitted this day but I told the House that I could not risque Censure by not officially informing Mr. W Lee & Mr. Izard of the Proceed ings of the 8th of June. How easy & how tollerably decent would it have been to have recalled their Commissions for the Reasons h[anded] down in the original Report of the Committee of 13—vid 2d head Apr. 15th, but the 4th head was meant to accomplish the point with you; the most sanguine not being discouraged at the Idea of Killing Doctr. F 9 secondarily, or sacrificing all Character in themselves of Impartiality upon the Ground work on which they meant to gibit your Fame. But I have said all my Eye sight will allow
