July 19,1779 255 of the letter is also found in one from Richard Henry to Thomas Jefferson of August 12 in which Lee discussed Congress’ response to Arthur’s defense against charges leveled at him by Silas Deane. Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:113—14. 2 For another vivid description of this scene, see William Whipple to Richard Henry Lee, August 23, 1779. 3 No such motion is found in the journals. A contrary motion to seal Lee’s letters was made about this time by Thomas Burke and seconded by James Duane, but it was also not entered on the manuscript journals. Burke’s motion was, however, printed with the July 16 entry in Worthington C. Ford’s published edition of the journals. See JCC, 14:843—44; and PCC, item 36, 4:153. 4 For Conrad Alexandre Gerard’s “private audience” with Congress, see Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10, 1779, note 4. 5 Lovell may have been referring to Thomas Burke. See Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10, 1779, note 6. 6 That is, Arthur Lee. Thomas Burke to Anthony Wayne Dr Sir Philadelphia July 19th 1779 I congratulate you on the Signal and brilliant Success of your Enterprize against Stony point. This gallant and Important affair, has fitted us all, with very high Satisfaction and mine, I assure you, is peculiarly improved; because, an Officer, of whom I had Conceived a very high Opinion, and for whom I have very great Esteem and regard, has conducted it, and obtain’d Such Singular glory. The happy Effect of your good Conduct, has saved your humanity, the pain it would have felt, how your Enterprize cost you the lives of many of your brave Soldiers, and gal lant officers; and even had you been under the Necessity of Slaughtering many of the Enemy—to the humane, (and Such are all the brave and good) this is a very pleasing Circumstance attending your Success. Every one remarks, that your magnani mous Generosity, has triumphed over the Enemy, as much as your Courage and Conduct. I was much concerned when I heard you were wounded: but, learning on Enquiry, that it was but Slight, I considered it as not worth attention in so great an affair, and I find, by your letter to General Washington, 1 you did not think it of consequence enough to mention it. Having mentioned your letter, I must declare, I think it a Just model of martial eloquence; equal’d by none, but Cassar’s veni vidi vici. I wish your example may be followed in this, as well as in the other parts of your Military Character. I wish you long life; I need not add glory, for you will have it, and am Dr Sir very truly, your Friend & Svt. Tho Burke
