256 July 19, 1779 RC (PHi: Anthony Wayne Papers). 1 For Wayne’s July 16 letter to Washington reporting his capture of Stony Point, see John Jay to Washington, July 20, note 1. Committee of Commerce to Oliver Pollock Sir 1 Commercial Committee Philadelphia 19th July 1779 The affairs of this Committee being for several Months past greatly deranged occasioned by the frequent succession of new Members in the room of such as had left Congress, together with the Removal of their Books and Papers to different parts of the Country for Safety when the Enemy took possession of this City; These accidents pre vented Your several Letters being hitherto regularly answered. To remedy this Evil, Congress did, on the 14th Day of December last appoint a new Committee of Commerce who will be enabled to conduct their affairs with regularity in future. We are now to acknowledge the Receipt of your several Letters of the following Dates with their Inclosures, Vizt. 6th March—1st & 2d April— 7th, 8th & 20th May—6th July—3d & 11th Augt.—11th Sep tember—5th, 8th, 10th, 18th, 26th October, and 15th December 1778—17th Feby.—10 & 18th April and 2d May 1779—The latter by Capt Calvert Duplicated by Capt. Joseph Conand. 2 It is with Con cern we inform you that of the several Vessells sent out by you for these Coasts with Effects, not one of them is safe arrived. The Sloop in which Captain Willing embarked was captured near the Capes of Delaware, and himself carried to Newyork where he now remains a Prisoner; Messrs. Elliot & McIntyre overpowered the Prize Master, retook the Sloop, and ran her on shore near Lewis Town, saved part of the Cargo, for which they were entitled to a Moiety for Salvage. Captain Morain ran the Sloop Bernardo on shore at Cape Hatteras; a trifling part of the Cargo was saved & brought up to Edenton, the Vessell lost. The Brigt. Minerva on her Passage from the Havana was captured by a British Cruizer, retaken by an American Armed Vessell & brot. into North Carolina where a Moiety of the whole was adjudged for Salvage. None others have we as yet received any intelligence of (The Capt. & People’s Wages paid). We are also to advise you that immediately upon Receipt of Your Letter of 2d May we applied at the Office of Insurance in order to cover Your 8000 Dollars on the Sloop N[ossa] S[enhora] de Carmel, Capt. Luiz Perez, but without effect, as by your Letter you were to dispatch her in three or four Days & upwards of two months having elapsed, they concluded her to be out of time, and therefore would not meddle with the risque. Upon laying your Letters before Congress this Committee pro cured the inclosed Resolves, by which Youll perceive they are fully
