266 July 20, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Tuesday July 20th [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. This day taken up intirely in reading Letters of the cruelties committed by the Enemy in different Places &c And according to Costom very little Business done. 1 P. M. Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 However, the Committee on Appeals did meet this day, to hear the case of Price v. The Success, and “decreed a Dismission of the Appeal of Elisha Doane from the Sentence of Condemnation of the Sloop Success in Jersey” on the motion of the attorney for the appellee, Elisha Doane of Wellfleet, Mass. The Success, owned by Doane, had been captured by a British ship, but then it ran aground on the New Jersey shore where it was recaptured by John Price and other residents. The New Jersey Court of Admiralty had awarded one-half of the value to the owner and one-half to John Price and the recaptors. Doane had filed an appeal with Congress on June 2, but when the committee, consisting of William Henry Drayton, Thomas McKean and Henry Marchant, met on July 20 to hear the case, Doane’s lawyer, Sylvanus Bourne, withdrew his appeal. See JCC, 14:677; and case file no. 51, RG 267, DNA. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia July 20th. 1779. I congratulate you & the Honble. Board on the success of our arms at Stony Point, under the command of Genl. Wayne, the Surprize was complete & the garrison (consisting of about 500) all made prisoners, with their artillery, baggage, &c, &c, with but a small loss on our side. I suppose before this comes to hand, you’l have received the particulars of a late battle in South Carolina, which from the best accounts I can collect, terminated most in our favor. I have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most obedient servant; S. Holten RC (M—Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). “The Honorable, The president of the council of Massachusetts Bay.” John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 20th July 1779. I have been honored with your Excellency’s Favors of the 30th Ulto. by Coll. Morgan, and of the 13th & 16th Inst, with the several papers to which they refer. 1 General Waynes Coup de main occasions as much Joy, as the
