268 July 20, 1779 However, I hope a Decision will be made for I think we may make out to rub & go at least with the Ground work layd before you left us. A pretty Letter this to be published in New York with the Name of, James Lovell RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Just as Lovell feared, a small British fleet commanded by Sir George Collier left New York on August 3 and arrived in Penobscot Bay in time to destroy the American fleet besieging the British forces there. See William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity (1926; reprint edition, New York: Russell & Russell, 1970), pp. 164-65; and William J. Morgan, Captains to the Northward: The New England Captains in the Continental Navy (Barre, Mass.: Barre Publishing Co., 1959), pp. 169—79. 2 That is, the American claim to the northern fisheries. 3 That is, John Jay, Gouverneur Morris, and William Henry Drayton. Henry Marchant to Congress July 20th 1779 [Henry Marc]hant One of the Delegates for the State of Rhode Island &c begs Leave to present to Congress an Estimate of the Value of certain goods belonging to Messrs. Cromwell and Caleb Child and Moses Turner of Warren in the State aforesd., destroyed the 26th of May 1778 by the British Troops blowing up a Store belonging to the said Cromwell & Caleb Child part of which was at That Time in the Conti, use as a Magazine. And the said Henry Marchant prays in Their Behalf that such Order may [be made thereon?] as that Justice may be done the Suffer ers in the Remiss. 1 Hy. Marchant RC (DNA: PCC, item 167). 1 Congress referred this request for indemnification to the Board of Treasury, but there is no evidence that any action was taken on the memorial. In 1783 Caleb Child renewed his quest for an indemnity, but the report of the committee to whom his appeal was referred was simply read and ordered to lie on the table. See JCC, 14:855-56, 24:483. Henry Marchant to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 20th. 1779 By the Waggon and Escort which conveys the Monies to the New- England States for exchanging the Emissions called in, I have sent a Pine Box, directed to Joseph Clarke Esqr. the Genl. Treasurer & have wrote him fully thereupon. The Box contains twenty of the 2d Vol. of the Journals of Congress, which I was anxious the State should have, and twenty of the Pamphlets called Observations on
