July 20, 1779 269 the American Revolution. I have directed One to Your Excellency in particular, & several others to particular Friends, but the twenty above mentioned are for the use of the State & their Order. I now enclose your Excellency two weekly Journals bringing them down to the 19th of June 1779. I congratulate Your Excellency upon the noble Exploit of Genl. Wain upon the North River; This will pretty handsomely Eclipse Genl. Clyntons swift, inglorious, pilfering, ravaging & burning Expedition. For which Actions of His, and his under Devil Tryon, I hope we shall have it in Our Power to make proper Retaliation. Our Affairs at the Southward wear a very pleasing Aspect, altho’ Our former Intelligence fell entirely through. We have now certain Intel ligence that we attacked them in their Lines on the 20th of June, and tho’ not able to carry them for want of heavier Artillery, yet the Attack was conducted with bravery, Intrepedity and much Advantage. There is a prospect that we shall, if it has not been done, cut off Their Communications with Their Shiping, and make conclusive Work with Them. My Respects to Your good Lady & Family. I am most respectfully, Yr. Excellencys, most obedient, & very humble Servt, Hy. Marchant RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear sir, No. 3. Philadelphia July 20th 1779. Your favour of the 3d instant 1 Just came to hand—am extreamly sorry to hear that our friends at the upper Coos are thus Harrassed by the aboriginal natives of this Country, especially at a time when their labour is so much wanted, to gather in the Luxuriant Crops with which Heaven hath So bountifully Cloathed the face of the Earth, And with Some effectual method may be addopted to pre vent any farther Annoyances from that herd. The intended expedition to dislodge the Enemy from Penobscot not having been Conducted with that Secrecy the Nature thereof requir’d by which means the Enemy have got intelligence and Sent a reinforcement 2 —notwithstanding the agreable News we had the other day from South Carolina has proved to be without foundation. Yet give leave to assure you the Situation of our affairs in that Quarter promises Success. The inclosed papers will give you intelligence of the Success of our Armies in Various parts tho, it is probable you will get the most of it before this reaches you. You ask Several Questions viz “is a French fleet expected on our
