270 July 20, 1779 Coasts or up Canada river this year? Will Spain intermeddle in the War? Can Congress procure a Loan of hard money? When will the Continental Lottery finish Drawing?” To which I answer Circumstances have been Such as led us to expect the Assistance of a French fleet on our Coast this Campaign; But as the hurricane months are advancing leave You to Judge of the probabillity. The Catholicism of his most Supine Majesty has kept him, for a long time open to all parties, & perhaps it was for the best, But have good reason to Conclude, Spain will Soon take an active part with us, against those whom they bave long viewd with Jeloussy, Envy, & Dread. A Foreign Loan for hard money Not yet determined. Our finances have been in a bad Situation but hope things are Comming Right. The drawing of the Lottery is at last Compleated. I must beg of you to forward all Letters to & from my family. Complements to all friends—Adieu for this time. I am my dear Sir Your most obedt and very Humble Servt, Nathl Peabody P.S. Please to write. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, this date, note 1. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Hond And Dear sir Philadelphia July 20th. 1779 In my last which was wrote in great hast, 1 I had the Honr of inclosing you Several Newspapers & handbills, Since which foreign letters have been received as late as the 6th of April 79, informing That Briton, finding herself baffled in her diabolical Efforts to Sub jugate the Good People of these States to the despotic domination of a Dupe to an Ignominious Tyrant whose tender Mercies are Cruelty; destitute of that Humanity which never finds a Sure habitation but in a generous breast, and Contrary to the Laws & Customs of all Civilized Nations, had Given Express orders to their Commanding officers in America to Kill, & destroy, plunder & burn all the defensless Towns in their Power, and in particular directed the late infernal Excursion to New Haven—a particular account of which enterprize no doubt you will have before this reaches you. Neverthe less I herewith inclose the best accounts we have of all the late Manoeuvres of both Armies. I heartily Congratulate my fellow Citi zens on the favourable prospect at the Southward and the Lucky affair of Taking by Surprize Colo Johnson with about 500 prisoner and a very Strong & important Fortress on the North River, which
