July 21, 1779 271 Circumstance will Give New life & Vigour to our Troops, and fur nish a historic page in the Annals of America. Your delegates here have Sent on to the State a Number of the Journal of Congress except for the year 78, which are not yet Come from the printer—and the earliest opportunity will be improved in forwarding them when Compleated. I am with due Respect, Honrd Sir, Your most Obedient, and very Humble Sevt. Nathl Peabody P.S. Sr. I must beg youll please to inform me, as Soon as you have opportunity, whether you have Received my letter dated June 3d inclosing an agrement of Very Great importance to me & my friends. I left it in the Care of my friend Mr. Blanchard who knew nothing of what it containd, if Reed please to inform when & by whom. I now inclose you a letter from Doctr. S. Hodges to Mr Jesse [John]son, beg youll Seal & forward it [as] Early as possable to Mr. Johnson. I understand affairs appear pro[mising], &c &c. Yrs. N P. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Peabody to Weare, July 9, 1779. Joseph Spencer to Oliver Ellsworth Dear Sr. 1 Philadelphia 20th July 1779 At the Desire of Doctr. Witherspoon Last week I received for you, and Mr. Root, 1600 dollars (Mr. Shearman who you had desired to receive it being gone home). Should be glad you’d please soon to direct what I shall do with it. For News I refer you to the Enclosed paper, have nothing remarkable to add. I am Sr. your Most obedient Humb. Servt. J. Spencer RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). Endorsed by Oliver Ellsworth: “Genl. Spencer, July 20.” 1 Although this letter is not addressed, it was undoubtedly written to Oliver Ellsworth, in whose hand it is endorsed and who served with Jesse Root and John Witherspoon on the committee to visit the New Hampshire Grants. The money received by Spen cer was probably their recompense for the committee undertaking. JCC, 14: 676. Committee of Commerce to Benjamin Franklin (Duplicate) Dear Sir Commercial Committee, Philadelphia 21st July 1779 By a Letter dated New Orleans 10th April last from Oliver Pollock Esquire Continental Agent at that place is the following Paragraph. 1 “I have this day drawn on Messrs. Samuel and J. H. Delap sundry
