July 22, 1779 281 of them, openly to avow them; and secondly—after thus discharging this Duty, whenver the public Resolutions are taken, to regard them the opposite to my Opinion as sacred because they lead to public Measures in which the Common Weal must be interested, and to join in supporting them as earnestly as if my Voice had been given for them. While I believe in my Conscience that I am faithfully serving my Country, I shall deplore but not dread her Resentment if I happen to offend her. She is my Parent—as a dutiful Son, I shall kiss her correcting Rod. Let her strike—but let her also hear Me. If the present Day is too warm for Me to be calmly judg’d, I can credit my Country for Justice some Years hence. Tis true, I may be mistaken— but sufficient it will be for my Vindication, if it be decided, that my Conduct is influenc’d by what I think right—for then it must be influenc’d by Honesty and Affection. Whatever may be the Merit or Demerit of my Behaviour on this great Occasion, I beg, that these papers signed by Me, may be receiv’d by Congress, and kept among their Records, that I may not be injured by Misapprehensions, nor have it in my power to elude a Charge, but, may stand or fall by Evidence under my own Hand voluntarily delivered by Me at the Time of the Transaction. John Dickinson MS (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). In the hand of John Dickinson. A copy of this document, in the hand of Henry Laurens’ secretary, James Custer, is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. This is the text printed by Burnett, Letters, 4:335—37. 1 For the concerns that led Dickinson to deliver this speech this day, his second effort in five days to break the near impasse that had developed in Congress over the ultimata to be formulated preliminary to the negotiation of a peace treaty, see Dickinson’s notes for a Speech in Congress, July 17, 1779; andJCC, 14:744, 850—51, 863-67. Although he had been appointed on June 17 to a committee instructed to draft a commission for the minister plenipotentiary to be appointed by Congress, he had on July 17 attempted to shift the delegates’ focus to the instructions that would be sent to guide the American negotiator, and he returned to this theme at this time during debate over the fisheries issue, prefatory to delivering to President Jay copies of both this and his preceding speech. 2 By “these papers” Dickinson means this speech and his draft of proposed instructions for a minister to be appointed to negotiate a peace treaty, Sparks Manuscripts, MH-H, for which see the document note to Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, July 17, 1779. As neither is in PCC, it is clear that Dickinson’s plea was disregarded. John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia, July 22d. 1779 I send You by Mr. Wm. Brown the Journals of Congress from the 1st of February to the End of March, & from the 21st of June to the 26th—20 sets of each, which, with those I have already sent, form
