282 July 22, 1779 compleat Journals of Congress from 1774 to this Day, excepting the third Volume not yet published, and the Journals from the 26th of last Month also not published. When these come out, I will send You twenty setts of each, with which I will beg Leave to trouble You for the Use of the Legislative Council & Assembly. 1 I am, Sir, your very hble Servt. John Dickinson RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). 1 This day Dickinson also joined Thomas McKean in sending another letter to Rodney, a portion of which reads: “We are directed by Congress [see JCC, 14:861] to request that you will be pleased to appoint a sufficient guard to take into their custody sixt[y] four prisoners, taken on board the British sloop of war Harlem by Captain Barry &c, and landed at Sinepuxen on the 18th instant by Captain John Young, and order them to be brought up here as soon as possible at the most moderate expence practicable.” Samuel T. Freeman & Co. Catalog, The Frederick S. Peck Collection of American Historical Autographs (February 17, 1947), p. 86, item 157. John Dickinson to Thomas Rodney Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 22d, 1779 I have received your Favor of the 17th, for which and the Inclosure I am much oblig’d, as I shall allways be for a Communication of your sentiments on public Affairs. I so much agreed with you concerning the Expediency of acceding to the Confederation tho as You justly observe in several particulars exceptionable, that I used what little Influence I had to forward its Ratification by our State advising, at the same time a strong Declara tion upon the parts objected to, addrest to Congress, and pointedly expressing our Expectation of a Revision & Alteration thereof at a more convenient Season. Your Reflections on our Loan, & on some other proceedings, I fear, are too well founded. Our Difficulties are prodigious— We see the wisdom of your proposal to stop the presses—We perceive Taxa tion to be of as much Importance as You mention— We are desirous of borrowing on the lowest Terms. But—while We have so many thousands to supply with Necessaries and while the Demands upon Us for the Articles We must purchase, are daily & hourly rising upon Us with such a boundless Stretch—to what purpose are Loans & Taxes. I have esteemed it my Duty since I have been in Congress, to keep my Eyes constantly fix’d on the preventing further Emissions—& several Steps have been taken towards that point, that are known but by very few to lead towards it—some others are now under Con sideration—& I am impatiently waiting for the Moment, when a prospect of carrying on Affairs without further Emissions, and a likelyhood of succeeding in the Attempt, will permit Me to move for stopping the Presses.
