July 24, 1779 287 ment to Command the Corps which should have been continued under him. He is a good Officer & we will not part with him, if persuasion can prevail. I am charged by a great number of your friends to present their Compliments, General Gates in a very particular manner. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 34). Committee of Commerce to Joseph Reed Sir, Commercial Committee, 24th July, 1779. The Committee appointed by Congress to superintend the Com missary of Provisions Department informed this Committee that there is at present on hand in the Public Magazines, Pork, Beef and Flour in greater quantities than the armies can consume before it will become perishable. It is therefore recommended by the Com- missarial Committee, with the concurrence of the Minister of France, that the Commercial Committee immediately issue their order for shipping to the Island of St. Domingo two thousand Barrels of Pork, one thousand Barrels of Beef, and one thousand Barrels of Flour, for the supplying His most Christian Majesty’s forces on that Island, the Minister having promised that the same shall be paid for at the Market Prices there. We therefore request your Excellency’s permission for shipping the above mentioned quantity for the purposes aforesaid. 1 We are respectfully, your Excellency’s most Obedient & Humble Servants, Fras. Lewis MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser., 7:579—80. 1 Before Pennsylvania complied with this request, the council reported that Pennsylvania law prevented the flour for the use of the French army rather than the French fleet. This President Reed explained to the committee in a letter of July 28. “The Embargo laid in this state is by Act of Assembly, and is therefore not so much in our controul as if it had been by Proclamation. We have examined the act with due attention, and find there is a proviso admitting an Exportation for ‘the use of the Fleet of His most Christian Majesty, and of the Armies of the United States.’ Your application therefore setting forth that it is for the armies of His most Christian Majesty, and to be exported to an Island other than that where his fleet is assembled, has occasioned some difficulty.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:588. In order to meet the council’s objection, therefore, the committee sent a second letter to Reed on July 31 in which the key phrases were changed to read: “It is recommended by the Commissarial Committee with the concurrence of the Minister of France, that the Commercial Committee immediately issue their order for ship ping for the use of the Fleets of His Most Christian Majesty in the West Indies, 2000 Barrels of Pork, 1000 Barrels Beef, and 1000 Barrels of Flour, the Minister having promised that the same shall be paid for at the Market price there.” This letter, signed by John Fell and James Searle in addition to Lewis, is in ibid., p. 605.
