294 July 26, 1779 Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally, Philadelphia. July 26th. 1779. I heard by Mr. Van Dike, who came here on Friday night that you were well. Letty & Sammy Sterett are again recovered by the help of the Bark. No sales of my lands since my last, but several applications have been made. There is to be a great Town-Meeting today, in which I shall not interfere I wish good may ensue from it, but I have some apprehensions of the contrary. Markets rather rise than fall, and so do foreign articles, except sugar, which is owing to the great quantity. You will herewith receive the four last News-papers, which will communicate every thing I can tell you of foreign & domestic matters; excepting that Samuel R. Fisher was convicted in the City Sessions on Friday last of misprision of treason, for writing the Letter to his brother Jabez in New-York, on account of which I sent a warrant for him some months ago, and committed him as he refused to give bail; his sentence is, to forfeit half his estate, & to remain in prison during the war. 1 As the sickly season is approaching, I would advise your returning next week, 2 if Sam is sufficiently recovered and you can get our effects to the Bridge. I cannot yet procure a Flatt to bring up my hay from Newcastle, nor Have I found a good house to be let. Kiss Sally for me. The children present their duty to you. Love & compliments to all relatives & friends. Adieu. Your most affec tionate, Tho M:Kean 3 RC (PHi: McKean Papers). 1 Samuel Rowland Fisher, a Quaker merchant, was later released by the Supreme Executive Council in February 1781. For a summary of the case, see Gail S. Rowe, Thomas McKean: The Shaping of an American Republicanism (Boulder: Colorado Associ ated University Press, 1978), pp. 122—23. 2 In a letter of July 30, McKean explained to Sarah the arrangements he had made for her return to Philadelphia and expressed his concern that she had “stayed rather too long in the country.” McKean Papers, PHi. 3 This day McKean also responded to a July 5 letter from Robert Levers, a court clerk in Northampton County, Pa., concerning property retention in a case of theft. McKean went on to add that intelligence from South Carolina reported in his previ ous letter “proved untrue, but the Enemy have had the worst of it in that quarter, and I am not without hopes they will yet be subdued, or at least have cause to repent their expedition. I congratulate you on the success of General Wayne.” Members of the First Continental Congress, NNPM. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir: Philadelphia 26th July 1779 I am favored with yours of the 5th inst. and in conformity to your desire have mentioned the Several matters to the Commercial
