July 27, 1779 295 Committee. As the Commercial business is entirely out of the line of the Navy Board they think it improper that Such accounts Should be settled by that Board, besides they are not authorised to give any Such instructions. They tell me they have long ago given directions that the prize goods which are not wanted for the public use Should be Sold—however as I have been very particular with them, I sup pose they will write you fully on the Several Subjects. 1 As to the copper and Saddlery, I suppose you must have rec’d instructions from the Board of War respecting them before this time. The last accounts from South Carolina were under 23d June—our prospects were then flattering—perhaps another week may produce agreeable intelligence from that quarter, but I hope there will be no public rejoicing till the intelligence comes from Such authority as will justify the fullest belief. You say you have no objection to a “Republican Govt.,” but your proviso destroys evey principle of Republicanism. I agree with you that virtue Should be encouraged, and vice restrained, but perhaps we should differ very widely as to the mode, as well as the objects— however as I have neither leisure nor inclination at present to enter into the merits of this Subject, in the epistolary way, I believe it will be as well to defer it to Some future day, when we may have a tete a tete conversation on this and many other matters—in the mean time be assured that I am with true republican zeal and the most perfect Sincerity, your very affectionate friend &c, Wm. Whipple P. S. The enclosed papers will give you the particulars of our Success in Hudson’s river. General Wayne has gained immortal honors by this enterprise which is by far the most brilliant of any thing of the kind that has happened this war. Perhaps History will produce very few instances equal to it. I observe one of the accounts Say General Wayne had 1200 men, but I understand from better authority that his number did not rise to 1000. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 If the Committee of Commerce wrote to Langdon, the letter has not been found. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday July 27 1779 Coml Committee. Congress. After sundry Letters and dispatches were read the Report for the Officers to be allow’d half Pay for Life and a further subsistance began to be debated, Mr. Houston my Colleague strongly oppos’d the motion. 1 MS (DLC).
