308 July 29, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Thursday July 29th [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. After the dispatches, Reports from the Board of War, and Treasury, the Order of the day, was taken up on the Fishery, and according to Custom nothing done, no reason able measures will satisfie the Eastern Members. (Mr Mercier & Mr McCoomd). 1 PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 'This day John Dyer Mercier and Eleazer McComb were elected commissioners of claims. JCC, 14:896. John Jay to Charles Scott Sir, Philadelphia 29th July 1779. The Honorable Mr. Matthews a Delegate from South Carolina lately arrived here—By him Congress received Advices which called their immediate Attention to that Quarter. The terms for which the Militia from No. Carolina had been detached were expiring and the Army under Major General Lincoln losing strength; The Enemy’s views & Situation rendered it probable they would be reinforced, and Prudence dictated active Operations against them before they should receive Accessions of Force. These reasons gave Occasion to an Act of Congress of the 27th Inst, 1 a Copy of which I have the honor to transmit herewith enclosed and am, Sir, With great Respect, Your most Obedient And Humble Servant, J. Jay. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 By this resolve, Congress simply ordered General Scott, at this time in charge of Continental recruiting in Virginia, “to use every means in his power to forward the troops under his command to Charleston, in South Carolina, as expeditiously as possible.” JCC, 14:893. He had already been ordered by Washington, on May 5, pursuant to instructions from Congress, to prepare 2,000 troops from Virginia for the immediate relief of South Carolina, for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:498-501; Wright, The Continental Army, p. 147; and Committee of Congress to Washington, April 28, 1779. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 29th July 1779. I have been honored with Your Excellency’s favors of the 20th & 21st Inst, with the several papers referred to in the latter. 1 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed a copy of a Letter from the President of the Executive Council of this State contain-
