July 30, 1779 313 ing documents. PCC, item 160, fols. 249—97. His two letters are also in Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 3:80—84, 86—87. Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates [July 30, 1779] “the most absurd & tyrannical* Order that ever was made the world must know it & shall know it.” 1 Mr. Duane in Congress Friday 30 July 1779—who was exceed ingly angry because I shewed him this Memorandum—he who affects to lament every thing like indecency in any of his fellow Members will often go beyond indecency itself. *alluding to the order of the day for finance & foreign affairs—by Mr. Dickinson. I had two days before remarked to the House that the observation of the Order was detrimental to Public good by totally excluding Reports of Committees & other important business whenever one Member should think proper to call the order of the day, which every day in the Week is subject to. MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Henry Laurens, and endorsed by him: “Mr. Duane’s address in Congress 30 July 79.” 1 On June 7 John Dickinson had offered a motion, seconded by Samuel Adams and adopted by Congress, “That on every day upon which it has been resolved to proceed on the order of the day after reading the journals and despatches, the House will proceed accordingly; and no other order than is above mentioned shall be made on any despatch, unless it be by unanimous consent: that this rule continue in force until Congress shall have gone through the reports of the board of treasury relative to finance, and the report of the committee of thirteen on foreign affairs, and of that on the communications from the minister plenipotentiary of France, and no longer.” JCC, 14:696-97. For the July 30 debate over Laurens’ effort to amend a motion to postpone consid eration of a finance report read that day, which apparently provided the occasion for Duane’s outburst against the order adopted on June 7, see JCC, 14:902—3. Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson Philadelphia. July 30th. 1779 Thus, 1 Sir, you see the good Effects of Committees for regulating of Prices', which bave occasiond a great deal of Confusion without pro ducing any Good that I can percieve. How these proceedings will End, I cannot undertake to determine; but I have sufficient Reasons to convince my Mind, that they are instituted for the worst of purposes. I have hinted to you my Opinion in a former Letter; and cautioned you against the Consequences, I have written to some of my particular Friends, on the same Subject, with a View of dis countenancing such proceedings; And I now repeat to you that I
