August 2, 1779 317 basis of the 11th & 12th Articles; reducible however to this one point which he plainly expresses, vizt that Duties on Exports are Pick pocket Arts and too mean to be practiced even in the Line of Retaliation. 7 I can only add a word or two on home matters for I am really faint for want of Sleep. Fishy, in no case to be given up. States to enter into no Treaty of Comce. without unanimous] consent unless free Exercise is stipulated [in] regard to that matter; and to resent w[ith] the whole force of the Union any Molesftation]. 8 These Determinations springly from the Unanimously declared opinion that it is essential to the Welfare of all these U.S! that the citizens thereof shd. enjoy the free unmolested common Rights of Fishery. We must be satisfied with tacit assurance of Indepcy. Good night, my dear Sir. RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. 1 See Lovell to Lee, July 17, 1779. 2 That is, Francis Lightfoot Lee. 3 Samuel Adams. 4 An allusion to Congress, which met in the State House on Chestnut Street. 5 Samuel Adams’July 19 letter to Lovell has not been found. 6 Benjamin Franklin. 7 On the subject of Franklin’s July 22, 1778, letter, see Lovell to Samuel Adams, August 3, and to Franklin, August 6, 1779. 8 “Molestation” had become a critical word in the settlement of the dispute over access to the fisheries, when Congress on July 29 agreed that “if after a treaty of peace with Great Britain, she shall molest the citizens or inhabitants of any of the United States in taking fish on the banks and places described in the Resolution passed the 22d day of July, instant, such molestation . . . shall be a common cause of the said states; and the force of the union be exerted to obtain redress.” JCC, 14:896—97. 9 Lovell wrote the following tongue-in-cheek warning in the margin beside this last paragraph: “dead secret unless you get it from the Weathercocks or otherwise.” John Fell’s Diary Monday August the 2d. 1779 Coml Committee. Congress. A long Letter from Mr Bingham 1 and other dispatches took up this day. Mr Jay Sick. MS (DLC). 1 This day Congress considered not one but three “long” letters from William Bingham, its agent in Martinique. JCC, 14:912. For those of June 29 and June 30-July 12, see William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, August 3, note 4. In his third letter, dated July 6, Bingham protested against two “glaring & vexatious Acts of Partiality & Injustice” committed by the government of Guadeloupe in seeming viola tion of the French treaties with the United States. The first concerned a Virginia sloop, the Kitty, which had been captured by a French privateer and condemned as a legal prize in the admiralty court at Guadeloupe. The second involved Benjamin Putnam, a Massachusetts privateersman, who had been captured and carried to
