322 August 3, 1779 Let me hear from you as often as may be. With much Regard, yr Friend & h Servt. J.L. [P.S.] I have kept Jan 9 ) Feb 3 (Mar 6 (12 ) A Lee’s Gridley’s RC (NN: Adams Papers). A continuation of Lovell to Adams, July 27, 1779. 1 That is, John Adams. 2 Benjamin Franklin. 3 For Ralph Izard’s January 28, 1779, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, which was read in Congress on July 27, see JCC, 14:892; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:33 — 34. 4 Silas Deane. 5 See also Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, July 31; and Lovell to Franklin, August 6, 1779. 6 At this point Lovell inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following words in the margin: “the fishery is meant.” 7 The Pennsylvania Gazette published on August 4 the following brief extract of a June 26 letter from Martinique: “We have late news from Europe that all the North ern Powers are united to ensure our independence, and that the King of Prussia has entered into the confederacy as mediator between France and England.” Although Lovell dated this part of his letter “Augst. 3d,” he probably completed it the following day. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir No. 4. Philada. 3d. Augt. 1779. Have Just opportunity to inclose a few papers. Genl Whipple, who I suppose will write you at large, Consents to Tarry here, till the weather is more Comfortable & untill Some very important affairs are decided in Congress—very favourable accounts from the West indias. Shall give you Some particulars Concerning Party Spirit in my next. South & East—the most unfavourable Circumstance in our public affairs. Compliments to all friends. I am Dear Sir, your most obedient Humle Serv, Nathl Peabody RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Philadelphia 3d Augt 1779 I wrote you per last post when I believe I acknowledged the receipt of yours of the 10th of July. 1 I am sorry Mr. Secy. Thompson did not see the Committee of Congress at Vermont, 2 however I hope every measure will be taken to support N. Hampshires Claim to that Territory. N.Y. has been very quiet about that matter ever since the
