324 August 3, 1779 By the conclusion of your last letter you seem to expect me home shortly; I have stay’d much longer than I intended, or perhaps than is desired by my Constituents. If the latter shod be the case a very short notice will be sufficient for my departure from this place. I am extreamly anxious for the determination of some important ques tions which ought to have been decided many months ago, 4 this & some other matters, which I shall communicate to you when I may have the pleasure of a tete-a-tete conversation, on some future day will accot for my continuing so long here; & since the summer is so far spent I think to take the pleasant part of Autumn to travel in unless it shod be otherwise ordered by the authority which placed me here & whos orders I shall always be happy in Obeying. I am my Dear Sir most Respectfully, Yours, Wm Whipple RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Bartlett’s July 10 letter to Whipple is in Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 261—62. 2 For further information on Ebenezer Thompson’s fruitless trip to Vermont, see Whipple to Bartlett, June 20, 1779, note 2. 3 Letters from William Bingham of June 29, June 30—July 12, and July 6, 1779, were read in Congress on August 2.JCC, 14:912; and PCC, item 90, 1:95—110. For the July 6 letter, see John Fell’s Diary, August 2, note. Extracts from the June 30-July 12 letter describing actions of the French fleet in the West Indies were published in the August 10 and 12 issues of the Pennsylvania Packet under the credit line from “a gentleman of character in St. Pierre.” Additional letters from correspondents on St. Eustatius and Martinique were also printed in the Pennsylvania Packet on August 5, 10, and 12, 1779. For further information on recent French naval victories in the West Indies, includ ing the capture of Grenada and Saint Vincent, see Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), pp. 159—62. 4 The “important questions” that kept Whipple in Philadelphia at this time undoubt edly concerned ultimata to be demanded in future peace negotiations, and of these the fisheries loomed most large. This concern had led him and Henry Laurens to sched ule a private meeting with Conrad Alexandre Gerard on July 19, which Whipple was not able to attend because of illness, but its substance can be ascertained from Gerard’s report of it to the comte de Vergennes. “La conference que j’ai annoncee dans ma d[ernie]re Lettre a eu lieu aujourd’huy,” Gerard wrote on July 20, “mais avec M. Laurens 1’un des Chefs opposans seulment, le Second, le General Whiple s’etant trouve indispose. Les arguments dont j’ai si souvent fait mention on ete epuises de part et d’autre. Je me suis prete a toutes les discutions possibles et je crois avoir demontre l’absurdite des principles sur lesquels on se fondoit et qui sont en sub stance que les droits de peche est un droit inherent a la souverainete et comme tel compris implicitement dans le Traite d’alliance.” Meng, Gerard Despatches, p. 804. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 3d Augt. 1779 Since my last to you I have rec’d your two favors of the 12th and 19th ulto. I am very sorry for your disappointment, but doubt not you have had intelligence Since, that has in some measure made up for it. Our success at Stony Point has in some measure drawn the
