August 4, 1779 325 attention of the enemy from the brutal ravages which they were carrying on with such rapidity in Connecticut—the prisoners arrived here a day, or two ago. Accounts from the West Indies are not disagreeable—the movements of Count D’Estaing has stopped 2000 men which were destined for the Continent. The Count’s great superi ority at Sea affords a flattering prospect of success should he come to action with Byron, the former having 25 ships of the line and 11 frigates, and the latter is said to have only 18 of the line and three frigates. It is probable you will have a particular account from the West Indies before this reaches you, I therefore will not trouble you with a Second hand Story. I have seen but 2 or 3 of the Magazines you mention and those were not worth reading therefore I have not taken them, but if you incline to take them they may be sent in the way you propose. I shall wait your further orders and wish to be informed if you chuse to have them from the first publication. The Penobscot expedition is of importance. I pray God it may succeed, but fear the great delays with which it has been attended, will give the enemy time to reinforce, if it should be Successful what is there to prevent crossing the Bay and taking possession of Nova Scotia for the honor of N.E. Adieu, Yours, Wm. Whipple Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). John Dickinson’s Draft Commission [August 4? 1779] The Delegates of the United States of N.H., M.B., R.I. & P.P., C., N.Y., N.J., P., D., M., V., N.C., S.C., & G.—to all who shall see these presents send Greeting. (We being informed) It being probable, that a Negotiation will {probably be) soon be commenced for putting an End to the Hostili ties between his most Christian Majesty and these States on the one part, and the King of Great Britain on the other part, and sincerely desiring they may be terminated by a peace founded on such solid and equitable Principles, as reasonably to promise a permanency of the Blessings of Tranquility, Know Ye therefore, that We confiding in the Integrity, prudence & Ability of have nominated and constituted and by these Presents do nominate & constitute him the said our Minister plenipotentiary, giving him full power general & special to act in that Quality, to confer, treat & agree & conclude with the Ambassadors or plenipotentiaries of his most Christian Majesty & the King of Great Britain & any other princes whom it may concern, vested with equal powers, concerning the reestablishment of peace & Friendship, and whatever shall be so
