332 August 5, 1779 Burke made to the state assembly two months later in behalf of himself, Penn, and Whitmell Hill, see Burke to the North Carolina Assembly, October 25, 1779. Burke subsequently returned to Congress on December 8; Penn on December 14. JCC, 15:1360, 1374. 3 See Samuel Holten’s Diary, this date. 4 The next day, Sharpe also sent Caswell a copy of the Pennsylvania Evening Post under cover of the following brief note of explanation. “The history of mankind does not produce a greater instance of discipline and cool bravery than that displayed by Genl. Wayne, and the Troops under his command in their descent on Stoney Point, the particulars of which is in one of the enclosed papers. “The Evening Post, enclosed will afford you some entertainment in a leisure hour.” Governors’ Letter Books, 2:130, Nc—Ar. 5 Undoubtedly the August 11 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. See James Lovell to Abigail Adams, August 9, 1779, note 5. John Collins To Horatio Gates Dear Sir. Philadelphia August the 6th. 1779 You will undoubtedly befor you receive these have heard of the Action on the 26th of July between the French & English fleets in the West Indies and that the latter has had a sevear drubing, and bore a Way for St. Christephors. We are informd that on the 22d the french fleet Consisting of 40 Sail appeard off that Island. I have great hopes we Shall Soone have an official account that the whole British fleet are taken, distroyed, or obliged to bair a way for Jamica— and I make no doubt but one or the other will be the Case, and as it is now Harricane months, we may depend on part of the french fleet soon on our Coast. Except, the Count pursues his Conquest down to Jamaica, I flater my self the Honour of takeing Rhode Island will fall to your shair. As soon as we have any Certain Accounts of the French fleet Comeing this way, I shall leave this City and come and joine you. I have made two Rhode Island Campains and hope soon to be on the third. 1 My best Respects to you Ladey. I am with Regard your Hum ble Servant, John Collins. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Although Collins was mistaken about the need for a third Rhode Island campaign, he correctly predicted that the appearance of a French fleet on the American coast would lead to the “taking Rhode Island.” Gen. Henry Clinton ordered the evacuation of the British forces at Newport in October. John Fell’s Diary Friday 6th Augst. [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. Memorial from the Commissioners of the Treasury. 1 Report to allow the Commissioners abroad 500
