338 August 9, 1779 Committee on Appeals Decree August 9th 1779 John Bradford &c &c Lib[ellan]ts & ) Appeal for the Court of App[ell]ees ad[versu]s George Wait / Admiralty of the State Babcock Claim[an]t & App[ellan]t ) of Massachusetts Bay 1 We the Commissioners appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the several Courts of Admi ralty of the United States of America having heard and fully consid ered all and singular the Matters and Things contained and set forth in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court of Admi ralty of the Southern District of the State of Massachusetts Bay and the Argument of the Advocate on the part of the Appellees in the above Cause and no person appearing on the part of the Appellant in the said Cause do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of the said George Wait Babcock on behalf of himself and others in the said Appeal named be dismissed with Costs and that the Judg ment or Sentence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid pronounced and published in the said Cause be in all its parts confirmed and established And We do order and decree that the said George Wait Babcock pay unto the said John Bradford and others appellees [in] the above Cause three hundred and ninety Dollars for their Costs and Charges by them expended in supporting and sustaining the Sen tence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid against the said Appeal &c. Thos M:Kean Wm. Hy. Drayton Edmund Randolph MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 47). In a clerical hand and signed by Drayton and McKean. 1 At issue in this case was the ship Nancy, which had left Cork, Ireland, with the British fleet and was captured on November 11, 1778, by Capt. George Wait Babcock, only to be recaptured three weeks later by the British. On January 5, 1779, Capt. John Peck Rathbun of the Continental sloop Providence, seized the Nancy once again, however, thus setting the stage for Babcock’s claim that he was entitled to one-half the prize. The Massachusetts Court of Admiralty awarded the Nancy and her cargo to Rathbun and his crew and to John Bradford who represented the Eastern Navy Board. Babcock thereupon appealed Judge Nathan Cushing’s decision to Congress, which assigned the case to the Committee on Appeals on May 12, 1779. In this decree the committee affirmed the Massachusetts court’s decision and ordered Babcock to pay $390 in fees and costs to Bradford and the other appellees. See JCC, 14:579; and case file no. 47, RG 267, DNA.
