August 9, 1779 339 John Fell’s Diary [August 9—10, 1779] Monday. August 9th. Coml. Committee. Congress. A New Plan for borrowing Millions on Loan 8 D[ollar]s for 5 L[ivre]s debated & adjourned. 1 Tuesday the 10th. Coml. Committee. Congress. Some dispatches, motions, and debates. PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 This “new plan” for borrowing “25,000,000 Livres Tournois” in bills of exchange drawn on the American commissioners in Paris had been proposed by Elbridge Gerry on July 23 and referred to a committee of five, chaired by Gerry, which reported on July 30. Although the proposal was considered this day and again on August 27 and 28, it appears thereafter to have been merged with general considerations of finance in Congress. Although Fell indicates here that the plan proposed exchanging dollars for livres at a rate of eight for five, the exchange rate was left blank in the report submitted by the committee. See JCC, 14:882, 900-903, 940, 1005. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Aug. 9th. [1779] Indeed, my lovely anxious Friend, you lead me to doubt whether Mr. A is really on the Water. 1 The Report of the Alliance being in Concert with a 40 Gun Ship on a secret Expedition tallies with Something of which I am certain. A Man of War of that Size has been given up to the “Direction” of John Paul Jones, and the Name has been changed to “Poor Richard” that it may not appear to belong to the french Marine. Our Commissioners have moreover certified under their Hands to Jones that he is still in the American Navy, tho’ he had quitted it some time ago for that of France, but did not give up his Commission. I formed my Conjectures upon first receiving that Intelligence, and your Anecdote confirms me therein so far as that I expect soon to hear of blazing Retaliation. And has not that very philosophic Politician 2 been yet to see you? I shall grow highly disgusted at my public Employment if its certain or even natural Tendency is to make me insensible of “the thousand nameless Anxieties that distress the tender hearts of your Sex” or inattentive to a proper Call to exert myself in relieving them. My Letter 3 in answer to a former one of yours is before this in your Hand and will convince you that the dreaded Callosity has not yet fixed upon my Heart. I have therein attempted, nor ought it to be in vain on such grounds, to give your Bosom Ease by directing you to repose it on that Assemblage of Merit which originates and finishes your Husband’s Conduct uniformly. Good as he was, when I first had the pleasure of knowing him, I do not recollect that he was quite such a Man as he now appears. Indeed, it was before his
