August 9, 1779 341 James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General Philada Aug. 9.1779 I thought my Townsman Mr. Sumner would have called on me at my Lodgings before he left this City, so far as at least to let me send the inclosed Journal and my sincere Respects; but he neglected me; And, now I have neither Health, Spirit or Leisure to say much, having worn myself down about foreign affairs in the Capacity of Committee Secretary & Clerk, all in one, and two Vessels offering themselves together. Besides This, I think it my Duty to stand Rowland for Arthur, 1 having very full & sufficient Materials in Possession to prove the assassinating malignity with which he has been treated. I am satisfied that he will make a most staunch Negociator for us whenever Peace shall be in Prospect. And if D’Estaing has gained what the Gazettes tell, Peace cannot be a year off. I never have had one single Moments real Hope of Success at Penobscot. I have now a Dread about that Expedition. I wish I was where I could a viva voix give you the History of the Election of a Cloathier General: it was a curious Affair. 2 I pray God to put you upon some Concert with D’Estaing either regarding Rh. Island or Nova Scotia. What shall I do with my Tribe if you cannot gain me a quiet habitation up the Bay of Fundy? Adieu & Prosper even to the full Wishes of your Friend & obliged humb. Servant. James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 That is, for Arthur Lee. For Richard Henry Lee’s use of the pseudonym “Rowland” in defending his brother Arthur, see Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, August 17, 1779, note 3. 2 After two officers named to the position refused to accept the post, Gates’ nemesis James Wilkinson was appointed clothier general on July 24. See John Jay to Wilkinson, July 24, 1779. Henry Marchant to Silas Talbot Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 9th. 1779 I reed, your agreable Favor of the 13th of July, inclosing a Letter for the President; which I thought proper to deliver him altho’ one very similar to it had been enclosed from Genl. Gates being one you had wrote to Him. 1 Your Exploits keep Congress constantly in remem brance of you. I have seen in others as well as felt in myself a singular Pleasure in the frequent mention of your Name. Your Let ters were referred to the Marine Comee—And it is not want of Inclination that you have not a Command given to You either in the Land or Sea Service. 2 All the Land Forces are under certain Com manders which cannot with propriety be removed. We cannot create Men. Nor will Our Circumstances permit us to build Ships for those
