346 August 10, 1779 ity of General Wayne and all his command, and reflects no small lustre upon the whole of the American Army. The Success of Count de Estaing in the West Indies will probably give a great change in the allied affairs; in all likelihood necessity must compel the Enemy to order some thousand men from this continent, at least a different direction will be made for those who were coming to america; and what shall the people of England say when they [at last] understand that the pride of the Island the British navy have been fairly beaten by the French fleet; surely it will make no inconsiderable noise; the people of England depend totally upon their Navy, and are abun dantly too Jealous and diffident of the land Forces. I suppose you know the Enemy are leveling all their works outside of King’s Bridge; they are strongly fortifying York, Staten and Governor’s Islands. Lord Cornwallis took the command on the first day of August. Sir H. Clinton and Governor Tryon are recalled. The sound fleet are returned to York. Sir George Collier sailed last week with eight ships to reinforce Byron. They say at York the English fleet were severely drubbed. The Enemy by so strongly fortifying stoney point in all probability means to evacuate Verplanks. The above Intelligence we have by a person of veracity just from York. I shall either write you or enclose the paper once a week; lately I have understood you seldom get any in camp. Your Brother is a most extraordinary Genius; many weeks ago a Gentleman from this City carried some articles of great value for Colo. Brachey &c. directed to the particular Attention of Armistead. I have written three letters 5 upon that subject and other matters, and not a single line in answer. Make my best compli ments to Gaskins; I hope the pleasure of seeing him upon his return to Virginia. Compliments of the Family wait of you. My Dear Sir, Your affect Friend and Servant. C. Griffin Paper enclosed. [P. S. ] By a vessel this morning from Martinico, the public have the following Intelligence; That Spain will declare in a little time; That Thirty sail of the French line were to rendezvous at Corunna, and join a Spanish Fleet of twenty one; these are to attempt, with twenty thousand men, a descent upon Ireland. That Count de Estaing had defeated British Fleet under Byron with the loss of 175 killed, and about 700 wounded, the Count could not bring all his Ships into action: That Byron escaped in the night understanding that French Admiral meant to renew the Engagement on the next morning. It is also said that Tobago is taken by the French. C.G. RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 Lt. Col. Burgess Ball (1749—1800), who had been transferred from the 9th to the 1st Virginia Regiment of Foot in September 1778 and was captured at Charleston in May 1780. E. M. Sanchez-Saavedra, A Guide to Virginia Military Organizations in the American Revolution, 1775 — 1787 (Richmond: Virginia State Library, 1978), pp. 29, 32, 58.
