August 10, 1779 347 2 This day Congress received news of Spain’s intention to enter the war and d’Estaing’s naval victory at Grenada, the “Intelligence” to which Griffin refers in his postscript. For the arrival of this information, see James Lovell to Abigail Adams, August 9, 1779, note 5. 3 For the nature of this “opposition,” see Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson, July 6, 1779, note 2. 4 Col. Daniel Morgan, who had resigned his commission on July 18 when the command of a new light infantry corps that he coveted was given to Brig. Gen. Anthony Wayne. Rather than allow him to resign, however, Congress persuaded Morgan to accept a furlough until a new position could be found. See JCC, 14:854; PCC, item 78, 15:473 — 76; and Don Higginbotham, Daniel Morgan, Revolutionary Rifleman (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961), pp. 95-99. 5 Not found. John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard Sir Philadelphia 10 Augt. 1779 I have the honor of transmitting herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of Yesterday, from which you will perceive that the Resolutions alluded to in your memorial of the 5th Inst, will be published in the Journals of Congress, 1 & that in the mean Time you will be pleased to consider yourself at Liberty to make such use of the Copies which I have had the Honor of transmitting to You, as you may think expedient. With great Respect and Esteem, I have the Honor to be Sir, Your most obedt. and very h’ble Servt. John Jay. Presidt RC (Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, Supplement, vol. 1). 1 See JCC, 14:914—15,940. In his “memorial of the 5th Inst.,” Gerard had thanked Congress for its August 2 resolutions supporting Jean Holker and affirming its deter mination to “afford every countenance and protection to the consuls and other servants” of the king of France. Although averring satisfaction with these resolutions, he nevertheless went on to express his hope “that the public will be informed” of Congress’ action in this case. In conceding to Gerard that “the resolutions alluded to” would be published in due course in their journals, Congress guaranteed the French minister a complete victory over Holker’s accusers, a step apparently deemed neces sary because of fear that America’s enemies had already profited from the suspicions stirred up by Holker and because the imminent return of the French fleet required a display of solidarity and cooperation to ensure its adequate provisioning. For the immediate background of Gerard’s August 5 “memorial” to Congress, see Jay to Gerard, August 3, 1779, note. John Jay to Thomas Mifflin Sir, Philadelphia 10th Augt. 1779. You will receive, herewith enclosed, a copy of a memorial of Wm. Moore, & a number of vouchers to the Accounts mentioned in it,
