348 August 10, 1779 together with a copy of an Act of Congress of the 6th Inst, 1 directing them to be transmitted to You for the purposes specified in it. I have the honor to be Sir, With great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 14:895, 927. By this resolve, former quartermaster general Mifflin was directed to compensate William Moore for horses taken from him during the winter of 1778 while the Continental Army was stationed at Valley Forge in the vicinity of Moore’s residence, Moore Hall. Moore’s petition seeking compensation for damages suffered at that time was of special interest to Congress, because Moore’s home had been the residence of the Committee at Camp and the site of its deliberations with Washington and the army from January to March 1778. See PCC, item 78, 20:439—45; and the items indexed in volume 9 of these Letters under “Moore Hall.” John Jay to George Washington Sir. Philadelphia 10 Augt 1779 Herewith enclosed your Excellency will receive Extracts from a Letter which arrived this morning from Mr. Bingham. 1 The Intelli gence contained in them is important as well as agreable. I have the Honor to be, with perfect Esteem & Regard, Your Excellencys most obedt. Servt, John Jay RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The enclosed extracts from William Bingham’s July 20—22 letter to Congress reported the failure of a French expedition against Grenada, the deployment of British forces in the West Indies and the embarkation of 6,000 reinforcements from England for America, French preparations for an attack on Ireland, and the immi nence of a Spanish declaration of war in consequence of Britain’s rejection of Spain’s mediation offer. For the arrival of Bingham’s letter in Philadelphia and Congress’ dissemination of the intelligence contained in it, see James Lovell to Abigail Adams, August 9, 1779, note 5. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir. Philadelphia 10th August 1779. My last trouble is dated the 3d Inst per post; 1 yesterday I was favored with yours of the 1st 2 accompanied by Copies of three Let ters which I fear will be of very little use or service hereafter. Congress as you will read in Dunlap’s Paper of this date have “discharged Mr. Deane from any further attendance” 3 this Resolu tion was effected at a time when I was unavoidably absent seeking for new apartments, being obliged to leave these I am in, the day after to morrow; I had previously, but without effect, objected to paying Mr. Deane any Money until he should have accounted for the Sums which he had received in Paris, & pointed particularly at
