350 August 10, 1779 Francis Lewis to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir Phila. 10th August 1779 I was yesterday favored with your letter of the 20th Ultimo. This moment a letter dated Martinique, 22d July from the Agent Mr. Bingham was read in Congress giving authentick information of the Battle between the Fleets of France & G.B. in those Seas in which the latter was defeted; 1 That G B. had refused the mendiation of Spain whereupon the Count de Oliveriez’s fleet of thirty Ships of the line were saild for Corruna to join Twenty Spanish Ships of the line and with 25000 land forses make a descent upon Ireland. That 6000 Troops were actualy saild from England for N. America as their last Effort. In the Sea fight the French had 176 Men Killed, 764 wounded. The French Fleet keep the Seas Triumphant—The British take Shel ter in St. Kitts. The European News was brought by a French packet arrived at Martinique on the 22 ulto. with dispatches for Count de Estaing & the Governor. If you have an opportunity please to communicate the foregoing to His Excellency the Governor & my Son Morgan. Our family are all in health & join me in our regards to yourself, lady & family. As I write in Congress have not time to enlarge. I am, Dr. Sir, your Most Obdt Servt. Fra. Lewis RC (NHi: Robert Livingston Papers). Addressed: “The Honble. Robert Livingston Esquire, Chancellor for the State of New York at Clar Mount.” 1 See James Lovell to Abigail Adams, August 9, 1779, note 5. Francis Lewis to Stephen Sayre My Dear Sir Philadelphia 10th August 1779 Your letter of the 21st Febry 1778 from Copenhagen via St. Croix is the only one I have received from you since the declaration of American Independence, about that time, I wrote you two several letters with duplicates for France, but so many of our dispatches being captured I much doubt whether any came to your hand. 1 By the different manceuvres of the British Troops, Congress has been obliged to change their places of residence, from hence to Baltimore, thence to this City, then to York Town and back again to this City where they now reside. When at Baltimore I urged your being appointed a Commissr. to one of the European States, but was answered by the Committee of Forreign Correspondence, that you were then Secretary to Mr. A. Lee’s Embassy to the Court of Berlin, 2 and proved a barr to your being appointed at that time to another Department. Upon the return of Congress to Phila. in April 1777,
