August 10, 1779 351 by a new appointment of Delegates for our State I was not in the nomination, and remained so ’till Decemr. of the same year when I was rechosen, and since that time have been Chairman of the Com mercial Committee of Congress. Your letter together with that from Mr. Frabitius (whose high Character I was well acquainted with when at Copenhagen) was laid before Congress, 3 who are very sensible of the advantages that would accrew in a Commercial intercourse with Copenhagen, as several supplies of Russian manufactures might be obtained through that Channel, but we are at the same time apprehensive the Danish Court are too much influenced by that of G. B. to wink at such Commerce, tho’ it may be advantageous to the Subject; But our greatest diffi culty arrises from the mode of Establishing a fund, Rice, Tobbacco, & Indico, are now our principal articles for an European market, and of these we have considerable quantities, but our coasts have been so infested by the British Cruisers that scarsely one Vessell in three escape them, and unless we can establish a fund by loan from some European State, it will be impracticable for us under such circumstances to make payment with our produce, tho’ we have more than sufficient in this Country to establish large funds in Europe, could we convey it with any prospect of safety. France being now engaged in a War with G.B. we cannot expect a loan from thence, and I presume Holland is at present sollicited by the Belligerent powers for money, a postcript to your letter hints a thought by Mr. Fabritius “that a loan of two or three million of Dollars might be negociated at B nt, 4 and in case of one years punctual payment of the Interest, he is confident any sums may be had at a very low Interest.” Your scheme of sending out goods in Danish bottoms to St. Croix or St. Thomas is feasible, and where we could lodge Tobo., Indico &c to be returned in said ships for payment, but the Risque of Captures between this and the Islands is fully as great, however I shall urge Congress to make an attempt in one or the other mode, it will be therefore necessary that you and Mr. Fabritius inform me with the names of Agents in both Islands who may be appointed by you to receive such Effects; I would here observe that Russian manufactures, such as Canvas for our Navy, Brown Sheeting 8c Ravensduck for Tents, Brown 8c white Drillings for the Officers 8c soldiers—also 7/8 Hambro. Dowlas, 8c the best Ticklingbgs. from Hambro for soldiers shirts 8c Overalls, Cordage of all sizes, is always wanted. At the Commencement of the present dispute with G. B. in order to pay our Armies 8cc, we were under the necessity of making large emissions of paper money, this our Enemies availed themselves of by counterfeiting many of those Bills to a considerable amount, which by their Emissaries were dispersed through the United States, add ing thereby to the then more than necessary quantity for a circulat-
