August 10, 1779 353 Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston Dr Robert. Phila 10 Augt. 1779. I congratulate you on the News of Count D’Estaings Success in the West India’s. It is not confirmed but has nevertheless great Appear ances of Truth. Nothing more is known than the News-Papers will announce to you. Should his Superority in those Seas become very decisive then you must attend to one Fact. That the Hurricane Sea son rapidly approaches & of Consequence all ulterior Operations in that Quarter become impracticable or at least very dangerous. I gave you so much Intelligence when you was here as to render any partic ular Observations unnecessary as they will naturally arise in your Mind. The Business we were so engaged in when you was here is in some considerable Degree settled to my Wish. I am now on a Com mittee to prepare the necessary Documents 1 There is also a Plan of Finance on Foot which I could hope to see matured but fear I shall not as I am determined to pay you a Visit very shortly. 2 Duane also is going Northward 3 Our State by this Means will be very indifferently represented on the Floor. However considering the long Time I have served it cannot be thought extraordinary that I should take some Days Leizure. Pray remember me sincerely to all our Friends & believe me, yours, Gouv. Morris RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 It could not be precisely determined which of Morris’ many committee assign ments he was referring to, but he may have meant his work on the committee to prepare instructions “for negotiating a peace,” to which he had been appointed on August 4. See JCC, 14:922, 955-66. 2 Morris obtained leave of absence on August 25, and returned to Congress on October 6, 1779. JCC, 14:993, 15:1146. 3 James Duane left Philadelphia on August 16 and did not return to Congress until May 1780. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Sir, Philad. Augt. 10th. 1779. This moment I am inform’d from Good Authority, 1 Great Britain has actually refused the mediation of Spain, that His Catholic Maj esty has declar’d he will no longer be an Idle Spectator in the present Contest—that he has actually join’d in Alliance with France and these United States—That a French fleet from Brest, of 32 Ships of the Line, and a Spanish fleet of 22 Ships of the Line, are forming a Junction—which with the addition of 25,000 Land forces, are Said to be destin’d against Ireland—official accounts it is Said are in this City Certifying the truth of the foregoing. Monsrs. Gerrard being from home prevents our having it officially, the Certainty, in Congress, 6,000 British forces are Comming to America—it is said that G.
