August 12, 1779 363 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 14:946. 2 JCC, 14:942. Jay’s August 12 letter to North Carolina governor Richard Caswell, enclosing this August 10 resolve, is in PCC, item 14, fol. 169. No such letter to Gov. Thomas Jefferson has been found. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Philada. Augst. 12th. 1779 It behoves you to be very industrious in informing good Men, what has caused certain delays in the procedings here for some months back. Let them know that there has not been any Proof of an honest Intention in Britain to treat of Peace; that France & Spain indeed seemed earnest to know our Ultimata, especially in points which were nearly allied to their Interests—Florida & Newfoundland. I have said good Men. I esteem Mr. Ellis Gray one. 1 I have seen his Allarms & Sentiments. I have a desire that such a Man should be well instructed in the Grounds of the Conduct of the Delegates both in Regard to Ultimata, and the Business of our Commissioners. The Party here have industriously sent Paca’s & Drayton’s Paper to Bos ton 2 and Mr. Cushing has seen it and makes just such an Use of it in his Letters as you can readily suppose, he gives other People’s Remarks, but You cannot swear it is giving his own opinion. Other Folks, & People cannot account for the Vote of the Massachusetts Delegates, after the Information from the french Minister. I again repeat that I hope Mr. Gray will find from you principally or secondarily that the support of a virtuous Officer is exceedingly interesting to Republics. Where Salaries & Fees are the Temptations to serve as in Monarchies, there may be a Levity as to Changes. But the grand Test in Republics should be good Behavior. But, no say some Folks & some Peoples, what is it to the Public whether an Officer is accused rightfully or wrongfully if the State is like to be injured consequentially. What honest Man will venture to become a Successor to an Office vacated on such Principles? We must let Men see that Capacity Honor and Integrity shall support them against all the undermining Acts of the vicious or the darts of Malice. I suppose you will readily see the subordinate Line in which one of the Letter writers acts. I conceive the Copy of Paca’s & Drayton’s Paper was not sent to either of the Gentlemen above mentioned. I should begin to think better of the Gemmen here if they were in Correspondence with so virtuous a Man as Gray. I mean You should only know he has written for your Clue, not for a direct Ecclaireissement. As to the other, you must have had twenty Oppertunities of Knowing he has seen Pacas & Drayton’s Perfor mances without my telling you. Hazh. Ford arrived Augst. 1st in Virginia. He left Mr. Adams
