364 August 12, 1779 June 29 of[f] the Western Isles. Mr. A had good news. Ford will be here in a few days when I will write more fully. We are boguing about 1/2 pay for Life? The Bear is in Licking; but it will be a Bear after all. But the Massachusetts Delegates had better not oppose it, because the Opposition delays Business. If Mr. J. Adams should happily land in yr. Quarter, I hope he will let People & Folks know that he has attested sufficient Vouchers to prove that A Lee has been most falsely accused and greatly injured. Yrs. JL. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Ellis Gray, a Boston merchant, was a former chairman of the Boston Committee of Correspondence, Inspection, and Safety. Warren-Adams Letters, 2:117n.l. 2 For “Paca’s and Drayton’s Paper” concerning the French court’s lack of confi dence in Arthur Lee, see William Paca and William Henry Drayton to Congress, April 30, 1779. 3 Among the proposals Congress took up on August 16, 17, and 18 for making “a farther allowance to the officers of the army” was a recommendation to extend “half pay,” as provided in a resolution adopted on May 15, 1778, from a period of seven years to life. See JCC, 14:971, 973—79; and John Fell’s Diary, July 27, note, and August 16, 1779. Committee of Congress to Benjamin Lincoln Sir Philadelphia 13th August 1779 Your Letter of the 4th June to Congress is committed to us who are appointed a Committee to correspond with the Commanding Officer of the forces in South Carolina and Georgia, 1 we had delayed entering upon the business from a daily expectation of learning from yourself a detail of the Action at Stono ferry and from flatter ing expectations that you would at the same time have informed Congress of the total expulsion of Mr. Prevost from South Carolina. Yesterday your dispatches by Major Franks under the 21st June containing an account of the Action of the 20th and its consequences were read in Congress 2 —the Enemy’s retreat to Georgia which we have heard of from various quarters wants your confirmation. Congress have received intelligence from Martinique indicating a determination on the part of the Enemy to detach about 3000 Troops from St. Lucia to this Continent, most probably to South Carolina, the success of Count d’Estaing in the Naval engagement near Gre nada on the rendered it necessary to throw those very troops into St. Christophers for the protection of that Island, you will nevertheless be on your guard and Congress will do every thing in their power to strengthen your hands. We think it far from impossi ble that the commanding officer at New York, now said to be Lord Cornwallis may esteem it a necessary and most essential object to annex South Carolina and Georgia to Florida, a first and favorite plan of the British Ministry, the prosecution of which will be encour-
