August 13, 1779 365 aged by Sir James Wright 3 with all his influence and force of reasoning. Congress have repeated and reiterated their earnest rec ommendations to the States of Virginia and North Carolina to march the troops from those States designed to reinforce your Army, 4 and we hope you will be enabled to make a respectable appearance in the Field before the 1st November. Inclosed with this will be found an Act of Congress of the Inst, requesting you to remain in your present command. 5 The few ness of General Officers in your department recommended the mea sure as necessary to be attempted, we rejoice to find it will be pleas ing to our fellow Citizens in that quarter, particularly to Brigadier General Moultrie, and we entertain a confidence that continuing at the head of the Southern forces will eventually prove honorable and beneficial to yourself. We are sorry to inform you that Congress have not received any addition to their Magazines of Military stores. Gunpowder, Muskets & Lead cannot be conveniently or safely spared until we receive further supplies, an event altogether uncertain, thus circumstanced, Congress have resolved by an Act of the 11th Instant Copy of which will accompany this, to reimburse the State of South Carolina the expence of such Military Stores as you shall deem immediately neces sary for the defence of the Southern department to be imported by that State. 6 You will be pleased Sir, to inform us as speedily as possible, & from time to time, the state of your Army, and of such particulars respecting your department as may be necessary to lay before Congress. With our best wishes for your health and success, and with great respect and esteem, We are, Sir, Your Obedient and most humble Servants. Henry Laurens Hy. Marchant S. Holten RC (CSmH: HM22412). In the hand of Moses Young, and signed by Holten, Laurens, and Marchant. Laurens’ draft of this letter is in the Laurens Papers, no. 23, ScHi. 1 Lincoln’s June 4 letter to John Jay, a copy of which is in the Lincoln Papers, MHi, was read in Congress on July 7. The following day the South Carolina delegates laid before Congress a June 9 letter of Gov. John Rutledge, whereupon Congress assigned Henry Laurens, Henry Marchant, and Samuel Holten to correspond with Lincoln and to “report, from time to time, the necessary measures for defending the said states.” JCC, 14:806—7. 2 See JCC, 14:950; and PCC, item 158, 1:259-69. 3 The royal governor of Georgia. 4 See John Jay to John Rutledge, August 12, 1779, note 2. 5 JCC, 14:942. 6 JCC, 14:946.
