366 August 13, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Friday 13th [August 1779] Coml Committee. Congress. The day spent in Reading the Instructions for the Minister to be employd to Negotiate a Peace. PM. Marine Committee. Ultimatom. 1 MS (DLC). 1 Fell inserted the word “Ultimatom” between his entries for August 13 and 14. The journals indicate that the draft report of the committee that prepared “instructions for the Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States to be appointed for negotiating a peace,” which clarified several issues relating to the ultimata, was “debated by paragraphs” on both days. JCC, 14:952. James Lovell To Horatio Gates Dear Sir Aug. 13. 1779 Capt. Traversie has delivered to me your Letter wth. the Gazettes committed to his Care. I put immediately under the Charge of Mr. Nurse the Letter & other Papers designed for Mrs. Gates. I could not conceive that you intended I should make any other use of the Intelligence you sent than only to instruct proper Persons here who wish well both to you & the public, without communicating them to Congress. For as you did not write to the President I suspected Some Umbrage would be taken on that Score, as well as touchg. the Chief of the Army. Would to God there were Troops ready to prosecute a proper Plan. But they are in the western Sink. 1 Captn. Traversie’s Account ought must Certainly to be pd. by you/ But I Suppose you have no secret Service Money of the blanc kind. 3 Nor has the Treasury. The Capt. seems not to be pleased with the Commiss[io]n he has. I think you had best send proper Certificates and ask a Continental Brevet for him; and facilitate his Receipt of his Pay from time to time in such way as you know to be proper. He would be glad to get it at Times of Col. Bedie rather than to be obliged to Journey for it. The Prospect of Peace was founded on a Phantom. There was no honest Intention for it in Britain. J Adams is at or near home. A Lee’s Secretary is arrived at Virginia, and is daily expected here. I will be more full to you by next post. In the mean Time, I beg to be counted among those to whom your Fame & Happiness are dear. James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 That is, the expedition commanded by Gen. John Sullivan against hostile Indian tribes on the Pennsylvania-New York frontier.
