August 13, 1779 367 2 Capt. Joseph Traversie’s account was laid before Congress on August 12, and on the 20th Congress ordered payment of $1,055 to Robert Troup, who had advanced the money to Traversie. JCC, 14:951, 982. This decision was reported to Gates in the following August 24 letter from President Jay. “The enclosed is a copy of an Act of Congress of the 20th Inst, for paying Robt. Troup Esqr. the money advanced by him to Capt. Traversie employed by you in the public Service, & charging it to your Acct.” Gates Papers, NHi; and PCC, item 14, fol. 178. 3 That is, specie. James Lovell to James Warren Dear Sir Aug. 13th. 1779 Tho on the one hand, I may be perfectly right in supposing that it is almost immaterial to which individual, of a select number of Patri ots in Boston who honor me with their Correspondence, I, from time to time, make direct confidential Communications, immaterial I mean so far as relates to the meer matter of Information. Yet, surely it must appear odd, at least, if not ungrateful, that I should send scrawl after Scrawl to one who replys in the Ratio of 2 to 7 while I suffer a long very entertaining Letter, from another, of July 19th to lay by me unacknowledged 10 days. Apprized as you must have been by Mr. S.A. of the Principles, Views & Conduct of most political Men here, you may notwithstand ing have been unacquainted even till now with the exact Contents of a Paper which is handed about in a particular Circle in yr. Neigh bourhood so as to influence the minds of some good men as well as to strengthen the Plots of some bad ones. 1 I wish you to see it, Mr. Ellis Gray, a worthy Man, will put you in the Train of having it, I doubt not: it is too much for me to copy at this Time, and perhaps needless. For if Mr. Gray cannot furnish you with it Mr. Thos. Cushing can. The latter also can, if he will, tell by whose extraordi nary Care it was sent to Boston. I own I have much Curiosity to know. Sir, you may see the low arts that have been used to prejudice the Minds of Congress so far as to make them destroy the good Man’s prospect of the best Reward in Republics—the approbation of the People. You may feel it by the Use that has been made of the follow ing Scrap laid on the Table by Mr. G. Morris May 3d 1779. Tis the Extract of a Letter from Paris dated the 7th of Deer. 1778 and said to be written by a confidential Friend of the minister of the marine. Mr. Holker furnished it, so that it was probably to him. 2 “Mr. J. Adams, le Depute ne reussit pas ici que de Raison: il parait etre entierement livre au Sr. Lee, lequel comme vous le Scavez est une espece de fol.” Mr. J. Adams the Deputy does not succeed here further than is reasonable: He appears to be intirely devoted to Mr. Lee, who, as you know, is a sort of mad-man.
