August 16, 1779 371 James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General Aug. 14th. 1779 Capt. Traversie has so good a Character from you that I have tried all in my Power to expedite what Business he appeared to have here. 1 But there was not a Shilling of hard Money in the Treasury. You ought to make application for some for secret Services as very shortly there will be a Supply from the Source of Burgoyne’s Troops one of the Commissioners being gone to Virginia to settle the accounts. It does not appear to me that Capt Traversie thinks himself quite rewarded by his Captain’s Pay for the Value of his Services. But you must be particular in writing if any Thing is expected from hence. Yr affectte Friend, James Lovell [P. S. ] You will soon see Mr. John Adams and a new french Minister. 2 They were on July 28th 150 Leagues from Boston in the Lat. 42. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Lovell to Gates, August 13, 1779, note 2. 2 See Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, August 17, 1779, note 2. John Armstrong, Sr., to Horatio Gates Dear General, Philada, August 16th 1779 Altho’ deprived of writing you by a Captn Traverscie 1 whos lodg ings I cou’d not find, yet have the pleasure of believing that defect on my part to have been more than Supplied thro’ the benificent Pen of our friend Mr. Lovel the Magazine of intelligence foreign & domestick. At present we are favoured with a flood of good News, the taking of St. Vincent & the Granadas together with some degree of Victory over Admiral Byrons Fleet by the Count DeEstaign, are we believe matters of fact, and Anxiously wait to hear the consequences of the latter or in what manner the good Count may be directed to improve his Victory. The Agent of Congress (Bingham) at Martinique (whos name and the thing too Congress at present seems rather disposed to conceal) expressly tells us that the British Court hath rejected the mediation of Spain, the effect of which will instantly throw that Court into the Scale of France & America—a different writer from the Same place Speaks of an actual junction & a formed Army for the immediate invasion of Ireland, Some Say to Conquer, others with greater probability, to excite & Secure the Independance of that Country—this whatever maybe a brewing I consider at present as premature. We are also assured that at least Six or Seven thou sand were ready to Sail as a Reinforcement to the Enemy this
