374 August 16, 1779 Widows; And an additional Subsistance for the present. On the 12th They report on the Letter from the Governor of North Carolina respecting the March of the Troops of that State &c. 2 That the Letter and Enclosures from General Schuyler (respecting which your Committee with the Commander in Chief were to take order,) 3 containd a Request from the Oneidas, a friendly Tribe of the Six Nations, for protection against the common Enemy; and your Committee have submitted it to the Commander in Chief to pursue such Measures thereon as he shall Judge adviseable. That the rest of the Reports being on the Files of Congress, your Committee refer to them respectively. Your Committee having thus presented a general Review of the several Matters committed beg leave to remark more particularly, that the Operations of the then ensuing Campaign were frequently the Subject of Conversation. That the Commander in Chiefs Senti ments and observations thereon which are expressed in the Papers No 1, 2, and 3 herewith presented 4 appeared to your Committee to be Solid and uncontrovertible; and that your Committee had the Satisfaction of concurring with him fully on every Point; and having nothing to communicate from Congress left him, under an explicit approbation of his Ideas, to the free Exercise of his own discretion in conducting the military Operations untill he might receive the orders of Congress. That your Committee conceive that he is by the Act of Congress of the 19 th of January vested with competent Author ity to conduct the Operations of the Campaign in every Quarter as he shall Judge fit: being under no other direction to their Knowl edge that what is implied in the Act of Congress of the 25th of February last and the references accompanying it, which are already noticed. That two Reports of your Committee remain to be considered by Congress, one respecting Prisoners of War in the Marine And the other the Appointment of Aids to the Brigrs General in the room of their Brigade Majors who are employd in the Inspectorship. All Which is Submitted the 16 Aug 1779. Jas. Duane, Ch. for the Committee MS (NN: Myers Collection). In the hand of James Duane and Charles Morse, a clerk in the office of the secretary of Congress, and signed by Duane. Endorsed by Duane: “Report of Committee of Conference with the Commander in Chief.” 1 James Duane, as chairman of the committee appointed on December 24, 1778, to confer with General Washington, prepared this report to comply with Congress’July 26 directive to the committee to “forthwith lay before Congress and account to their proceedings, and of all the information they can give relative to the western expedition.” JCC, 14:889-90. 2 The remainder of the report is in Duane’s hand. 3 For this January 5, 1779, letter from General Schuyler, see John Jay to Philip Schuyler, January 15, 1779, note 2. 4 Although “Papers No 1, 2, and 3” have not been found, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:485 — 91, for Washington’s January 8, 1779, “Sentiments and observations” on “the then ensuing Campaign.”
