380 August 17, 1779 Remember to Mr. Avery. [P.S.] I wrote long ago to Dr. Cooper and to Genl. Warren 10 to give me some authentic State of the Line between Nova Scotia & us. Who will be “Commissioners properly chosen” now, to settle it between Br 8c the United States. Let Mass, consider that Sentiment. Deliver the Journal to Mrs. L as soon as I send any of the same to the Court or to you. R.H.L. is quite confined by an epedemic Cold. I write constantly to him and, Sir, have punctual Returns. RC (NN: Adams Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. 1 Probably John Lovell, who had been imprisoned in Boston as a loyalist in 1776 but made his way to Great Britain via New York. Edward Alfred Jones, The Loyalists of Massachusetts (1930; reprint ed., Baltimore: Genealogical Publishing Co., 1969), pp. 201-3. 2 That is, John Holt’s New York Journal (Poughkeepsie). 3 That is, Richard Henry Lee. 4 John Adams. 5 See Lovell to Samuel Adams, August 12, 1779, note 3. 6 That is, Samuel Holten. 7 James Duane, who departed on August 16. See John Jay to Robert R. Livingston, August 18, 1779. 8 Probably John Penn. 9 Perhaps Cyrus Griffin. 10 No such letters to Samuel Cooper and James Warren have been found. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Aug. 17th. 1779 Your Favor of the 7th is in my hand. I am surprized that you had not then heard of the Arrival of Ford on the 1st at Metompkin. 1 Mr. J. Adams was at Braintree on the 3d and Count Luzerne in Boston. 2 I have no Dispatches from either; but I have a Letter from Nantes of May 25th, Extract of which you will see in the Paper of Tomorrow, as well as the Continuation of Rowlands Communica tions, 3 of Part of what you think ought to be published. You talk of your having a Sort of right to a Copy of the Papers sent by Arthur, you little know of the droll motion made by your merry Friend, 4 to stigmatize Ar[thu]r for having enclosed to an Indi vidual what he desired might be communicated to a secret Commtee of Congress to prevent the Consequences of a palam Examination of the Vouchers. But, as on the one hand I contended for an open reading of the whole that was sent, I most easily convinced the House that every Officer in their Service has a Right to communi cate such Papers as these in question to any Individual Friend, on whose Judgment he chuses to depend either to present or burn Resignations, Memorials and Defenses, these being personal Concerns; and I mentioned having by me some Things thus inclosed upon
