384 August 17, 1779 live to return home Shall exert every Nerve to induce the State to assert Support, and maintain her Sovereignty & independance, against the Tyranic Strides of Certain Aristocrated Gentry now in and useing their Hostile influence to Subjugate the E. {States) 8c force them to a Compliance with Measures injurious, degrading, & Con trary to every republican principal. This moment while I am writing, a Long letter dated Passey May 26, 1779 has Come to hand from Dr. Franklin 2 and as the Secretary is Reading it I extract the following— viz “Admiral Arbuthnott has been detained for Some days, from Sailing for America on account of the affairs of the Jersies & Guonsies [Guernsies] &c &c and it is the general opinion here that an invasion against England or Ireland is intended.” “Genl & Lord Howe, Gener als Cornwallis, and Grey, Colo. Montresor, Capt. Hammond 8c others, have Some time since declared as their opinion that the Conquest of America was impossable 8c ought not to be pursued but hear that John Maxwell Esq., Joseph Galloway Esq., Andrew Allen Esq, John Patterson, Theopls. Morris, Enoch Storey and Jabaz Fisher are to be Examind this week to prove the Contrary.” I beg you’l write as often as possable my Complements to the Honble Committee. I am Dear Sir with Great Sincerity, Your most Obedt., and very Humbl Sevt, Nathl Peabody [P.S.] Please to Excuse incorrectness as I have not read what I have wrote. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Benjamin Franklin’s lengthy May 26, 1779, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs was read in Congress this day and referred to committee. See JCC, 14:972; PCC, item 82, 1:134—53; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:186—94. Jesse Root to Samuel Holden Parsons Dear Sir Philadelphia Augst. [17] 1 1779 I reed your favour of the 8th Inst, and fully Concur with you in Sentiment with respect to my not Calling upon you, with this difference, that if I had been previously told that I should not, I Should have scarcely beleived it possible. But the Case was this, I arrived at New Windsor in the afternoon— at Sun set the tide not favoring Sooner. I embarked in a boat for head quarters, where I was told you was arrived there between Eight 8c nine oClock—next morning the Gen’l proposed to me to ride out and View the works 8c lines which I very readily Complied with, the Genl himself very politely went with me 8c to every other place which I Suggested I wished to go. I expected to have Seen you at Genl Putnams where a board of Genl officers were met—but not finding you there 8c being informed that it was very uncertain whether you
