394 August 20, 1779 in return an equal number of French Subjects now in the power of the enemy; And it is also our desire that if you have in your posses sion more Marine Prisoners than are sufficient to redeem the Ameri cans in the hands of the enemy, that with the Surplus an Exchange be made for any French Prisoners that may be left with the enemy— Or failing in that way if the British Commissary will take your obliga tory receipt for any number of the subjects of his most Christian Majesty which he may now send out and deliver to you, you may pass the Same on behalf of the United [States] to be paid as soon as it shall be in your power. As the Minister of France is anxious to have this business concluded we recommend that you use all possible despatch in the execution of it. The Commissary for French Prison ers is now going into New York and in his way will call upon you, which may probably tend to facilitate the business. We request you will recur to our Instructions of the 14th of Octo ber last 1 wherein we recommend that you keep clear and distinct accounts of all expenditures attending the french Prisoners to pre vent any difficulty hereafter in the Settlement of them. We are Sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See these Letters, 11:57—58. Marine Committe to Joseph Reed Sir August 20th. 1779 Your Excellencys favour of yesterday with the enclosures is now before us. 1 It gives us great concern to hear that a Spirit of insolence and outrage manifests itself in the Officers and men of the Continen tal Vessels, and your Excellency may rest Assured that this Board will discountenance every attempt of the Officers and men under their direction to treat the magistracy or any other persons in the execution of Office with insult and contempt. We find ourselves embarrassed with the particular cases referred to in your Excellen cys Letter; as, on the one hand, to pass a censure on these officers, without hearing them in their defence would be considered as an Act of injustice; and having no authority to call before us any citizens of this State whereby we might lead to a partial decision on the Other hand. We therefore hope that the civil power will effectually redress the injuries complained of, and, we trust prevent the like in future. 2 With much esteem and respect we are, Your Excellencys Obedt humble servants
