402 August 23, 1779 Joseph Spencer to Joseph Ward Sr Philadelphia 23d August 1779 Yesterday I Reed, your 2d Letter of the 13th Instant and in answer to this and your 1st I observe that some time in the Spring, the Board of War Reported Relative to the pay of the Mustermasters Department, which report with the application on which it was grounded was Refered to a Special Committee of three, 1 the Com mittee made a report to Congress, they Seem’d not pleased with the report, at that time, and Recommitted the matter, and directed the Committee to make Some Enquiry (Relative to the Subject) of the Commander in Chief; the Committee accordingly wrote but there was Some delay in Sending the Letter by reason of Mr. Lawrence’s being out of health a few days, about that time, but it was Sent off before I reed your first Letter, and I then Concluded, that you would be acquainted fully with the Steps taken, & the particular State that matter was in before an answer from me Could reach you, which was the Special reason I delayed writing you an answer, but as it has hapned 1 am very sorry I did not write to you Immediately. With the Letter the Committe Transmitted all the papers Concern ing the Subject to his Excellency Genl. Washington and it is the desire of Mr. Lawrence with whom I have Confered this morning, as well as my own, that you will apply to his Excellency to know wheather he has reed, our Letter and the papers, we hope soon to have an answer from him, and then Something will doubtless Soon be determind in the Case, the matter being in this Situation I shall not diliver your Letter to the President untill I have your positive Direction. In great hast, I am Sir your Humble Sert. Joseph Spencer RC (ICHi: Ward Papers). Addressed: “Col. Joseph Ward, Comissary General of Musters, Camp Hudson River.” ' Ward had raised the issue of pay and allowances for “officers of the Mustering Department” in a June 14 memorial submitted by his deputy Azariah Horton, which had been referred on the 15th to a committee consisting of Spencer, Henry Laurens, and Nathaniel Scudder. On June 25 the committee brought in a report recommend ing pay increases for the department, but it was immediately recommitted and the committee was ordered to consult General Washington, who was simply asked whether the muster department should be continued or abolished. Presumably the fate of the department was set when Washington replied that its duties should be transferred to the inspector general’s department, but no immediate action was taken and Ward and his officers were left without relief until January 1780, when the recommendation was carried out. SeeJCC, 14:734, 770-71; PCC, item 41,4:67-74; and Committee of Congress to Washington, September 3, 1779. For Ward’s repeated efforts to prod Congress to action and the delegates’ seeming indifference to the plight of his officers, see also his letters to Elbridge Gerry, Samuel Huntington, Henry Laurens, and Jesse Root in PCC, item 78, 24:101-8, 121-24, 137-40, 167-70; George Partridge to Ward, October 19 and November 31? 1779, and January 3, 1780; and Samuel Hunt ington to Ward, January 14, 1780.
