August 24, 1779 409 Country that gave him Birth & reared him to Manhood—It may not be surprising if he should find powerful Friends and advocates. The Boston Papers intimate a reasonable Expectation of making a capital Stroke upon a Jamaica Fleet: and that Manly had taken a new built Frigate. Genl. Sullivan is penetrating the Indian Country & has destroyed two Indian Towns. The Flees could not be catched tho’ they gave Us several severe Bites. We indeed may not expect to catch Indians. But the destroying their Towns, and taking a Number of old Men, Women & Children may strike an awe upon Their Minds and secure us against future Depredations, & Barbarities upon Our Inhabitants. It is a mere Indian Expedition—I hope the Advantages will answer to the great Expence, and the Injury sustained by weakening other Posts for that Pursuit. Wishing allways for the best, I content myself with waiting for the Event. Your Express went off before I could prepair any Letters and wishing rather to write by Express, than the Post, I have omitted the acknowledging Your Goodness till now. I am much pleased as well as honored by Your Assurance that “At Times, when Matters worthy Note arise I may hear from You.” I heartily congratulate you upon the second brilliant Stroke upon the North River. The Glory acquired hereby to the American Army, the glorious Success of Our Allies in the West Indies—And the perfect most favourable Disposition of European Powers. I am Dr. Sir Yr friend & Servt, Hy. Marchant RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, July 13 and August 10, 1779. 2 The American forces at Penobscot Bay had already been routed on August 14—15. 3 See John Jay to Gates, July 30; and Marchant to Silas Talbot, August 9, 1779. Henry Marchant to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 24th. 1779. I inclose to your Excellency three of the Weekly Journals ending the 24th of July last, and the last News Papers. I most heartily con gratulate your Excellency upon the fresh Glory acquired to the Ameri can Arms by a second Brilliant Stroke of the brave Major Lee upon the Fort & Garrison at Paulis Hook. We are every Moment in Expec tation of seeing the Prisoners pass thro’ the City 160 in Number. Several Schirmishes terminating much to Our Honor have happened on the East Side of the River. Genl. Sullivan is penetrating the Indian Country & has destroyed one considerable Indian Town. We hope the best of the Penobscot Expedition, but are not without our Fears. The Count De Staing is doing nobly in the West Indies—and in Europe every Thing is as it should be, at least as we would wish them
