410 August 24, 1779 to be. And if Our People who have nobly bled in this Cause and have dispised Death when held in Competition with their Freedom and Independance, will but most heartily dispise the thought of growing Rich upon Their Countrys Ruin—and freely lend & chearfully give their Money—the last dying Hope of Britain will fail and every earthy Blessing will be insured to us & to our Posterity for Ages unborn. I have not Time to add but that I am Yr. Excellencys, most obedient, and very humble Servt. Hy. Marchant [P. S.] Mr. Collins has been a Day or two in the Country. RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen August 24th 1779 Since our last of the 17th we are favoured with yours of the 11th instant. 1 We hope the agreeable news of the Success of the Provi dence Queen of France and Ranger will turn out to answer your expectations and we wait anxiously to hear the event of the expedi tion to Penobscot. We highly disaprove of the behaviour of the Lieu tenants belonging to the Alliance in leaving that Vessel in a foreign Port, and we think they should be immediately Suspended until their conduct can be properly investigated. Should you be of the same opinion from what information you can at present get, we desire that it may be done, and when the Alliance returns and you can obtain sufficient proofs respecting their conduct, to bring them before a Court Martial, and [t/] it is your Opinion that the good of the service requires their being brought to trial, you will order a Court Martial for that purpose and transmit to us a Copy of the Proceedings. We shall hereafter write to you respecting the Powder wanted for the use of your Department, in the mean time We are, Gentlemen, Your very hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The board’s letter of August 11 to the committee is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. Marine Committee to Seth Harding Sir August 24th 1779 You are hereby directed to sail with Continental frigate Confeder acy on a short cruize off the Capes of Delaware until the 5th of
