August 24, 1779 411 September next, chusing such Station as you shall think will be most likely to fall in with the Brigantine Eagle Captain John Ashmead belonging to the United States which is daily expected at this Port from the Island of St. Eustatia and has on board a lading of much consequence to the public. Should you meet with this vessel you must convoy her into the Bay so far as you may judge she will be safe from Capture by the enemy and afterward Cruize until the time above mentioned when you are to put into the Bay and call upon Major Henry Fisher at Lewis Town with whom will be lodged our further orders for Your government. The Navy Board will deliver you a set of Signals whereby the Eagle will be made known to you, to which please to attend & wishing you Success, We are Sir, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston Dear Livingston Philadelphia 24th Augt. 1779 Much of a Man’s political Opinion depends I believe upon his natural Temperament. I am a little sanguine and never look upon the dark Side of Objects unnecessarily. George the second heard from Lord Chesterfield a Conversation which passed in his Lordship’s Presence very abusive to the Prince but which terminated in a Quar rel when a French-Man took a Share in the Business of Detraction. The old Monarch laughed very heartily & replied by God my Lor I love my Subjick dey be ver good Subjick dey abuse me demself dey let no Body else abuse me. This is very much the Situation of the Ameri can Citizens & American Congress or I am much mistaken. As for the Committees 1 they are the Nebula leves which variegate the Horizon no more at least in the State of New York. The Bait was flattering. Let us regulate ie let us take our Neighbour’s Property and convert it to our Use. But unfortunately the Means are wanting because there is none of that Property in the State and the late Applications to the Philadelphia Committee will convince the People of their Folly. For Notwithstanding the warm Recommendations of the Committee of Albany the Agents could not gain Permission to carry away a single Peck of Salt. I have taken Measures to provide it for the State. As to the Gentleman you mention as having been concernd in promoting the Measure I doubt not that he has long felt the tedium of inactive Life but whether that or any other Cause hath prompted this Manoeuvre I will not pretend to discover without knowing which at this Distance I cannot do the several Minutize of Circumstances which color all human Conduct. As to the Changes you mention to have happened in our Legisla ture I am truly far from regretting them. It shews me that there hath
