412 August 24, 1779 been much of Indolence somewhere and I conjecture everywhere. This will be punished but of Consequence it will be for a Time at least cured. What you may be able to do and had far to restrain others from Doing I know not. As to the Gentleman you mention to be sent hither it is of little Consequence. I have seen virtuous Labors so often overthrown that I am inured to it. The high Character which the State of New York has gained must sometime or other fall and whether it be this or a future Year Is not of much Importance. I have labored long to support it and when the State dismiss me from their Service I shall be dismissed from my Labors. As to the Desire of avoiding Censure. I consider it as a trifling Motive. Let a Man take a great Line of Conduct and let him take the Consequences. As to the Revolutions in Philadelphia Politicks I said nothing because I had nothing to say. 2 I perceive no Revolution but I have long perceived revolution Principles. This State is a great unweildy Mass badly jointed. If I may be allowed the Expression it is hooped by Opposition and when that ends must crumble to Pieces. I tell you here the Observations of a Spectator for I cautiously avoid medling in Matters of this Sort unless indeed in Cases, should such happen, where the great Continental Interests are at Stake. As to our Friend Morris he stands in good Estimation indeed the Thing could not be otherwise for an honester Man is not on Earth and the attacks made on him have demonstrated it. Your former Letters were received. Some Persons have of late busied themselves to [ . . . ] Arthur Lee the Success of which will I imagine be counter to the Attacks on Morris and equally disappoint the Projectors. Spain hath at Length taken a decided Part whereon I congratulate you and my other Friends. To all of them remember me with the Warmth of Affection. Adieu. Yours, Gouv Morris RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 Morris is apparently responding to a letter from Livingston of August 8 in which he mentioned “the attempts of the county of Albany to imitate the Philadelphia Committee in regulations &c.” The draft of this letter is in the Livingston Papers, NHi. 2 For the charge that Morris had involved himself in the politics of Pennsylvania, see Morris’ letters to Joseph Reed, April 9, 25, and July 9, 1779. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Hond. and Dear Sir, No. 5. Philada. 24h of Augt. 1779. I had the honr. of receiving your kind favour of the lOh instant, per Post, And am Extreamly obliged to you for the intelligence therein Contain’d. 1
