432 August 31, 1779 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Glascock’s July 10 letter to Congress is in PCC, item 73, fols. 240—45. 2 Georgia was apprehensive that “being one half in full Possession of the enemy” and not represented in Congress, she might be abandoned by her sister states. Con gress therefore resolved that “Georgia be assured of the determination of Congress to give them all possible support,” and appropriated $500,000 for her defense to pro vide tangible evidence of their commitment. See JCC, 14:990—91, 1006. For the situation in beleaguered Georgia at this time, see also Edward Langworthy to John Houstoun, April 5, 1779, note 2. 3 Glascock had written that one of his spies had recently been in Savannah, where “he was Invited to Breakfast with Col. Prevost. . . and while the Governor was busy he pretended to Amuse himself with some books that lay about in the room and in the mean time discoverfed] two letters that had been Just wrote,” details so specific that he could easily have been identified had Glascock’s letter been intercepted. John Jay to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia 31st Augt. 1779. I have been honored with your favors of the 9th & 22nd Ulto. They were immediately communicated to Congress & committed. No Resolutions have as yet been entered into on the Subject matter of them; Whenever these are they shall be transmitted without delay. 1 You will perceive by a copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th Inst, that in the case specified in it the money allotted for Georgia & sent to Joseph Clay Esqr. will be disposed of by your advice or that of the Commander of the forces in your Department for the time being. 2 I have the honor to be Sir with great, Respect & Esteem Your most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Neither of these letters is in PCC, but the general’s letterbook copies are in the Lincoln Papers, MHi. 2 See the preceding entry, note 2. John Jay to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 31 Augt. 1779 The enclosed Account of the Reinforcement with Admiral Ar buthnot is copied from one reed, by Mr. Jos. Wharton from his Friend in Paris. 1 The Confidence Mr. Wharton has in his Correspon dent induces him to think this Account may be relied upon. I am Dear Sir, with perfect Regard, your most obt. Servant. John Jay P.S. Mr. Wharton would not chuse that this line of Intelligence should be generally known.
