August 31, 1779 433 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Wharton’s correspondent, writing on May 25, 1779, reported that he had “just received certain advice from a Gentleman in office in London,” that Adm. Marriot Arbuthnot was preparing to sail for America with four ships of the line, all 74s, and 2,800 reinforcements. This enclosure, in Jay’s hand, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. See also Jay to Washington, August 30, 1779. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee My Dear sir, Philadelphia 31st August 1779. Since the date of my last trouble the 24th Inst. 1 I have been hon ored with your favors of the 13th & 23d, 2 The former by an express Messenger, who assured me he should not return till this day, but I learned last Night at Mr. Lovel’s that he went off suddenly on Sunday. Yesterday I received at Congress two Packets & one small Letter directed to you, these I apprehend came by the Eastern Post, at Mr. Lovel’s request I shall send them to him to be forwarded in a proper manner. I am sorry to find you continue an Invalid, but how can it be otherwise if you also continue to fatigue both body & mind. You must not allow the attempts & designs of wicked Men to operate in the very manner they would wish, let us proceed fairly, & softly & wisely and truth will drive them out of their entrenchments, they are now closely hemmed in & cannot escape. On Tuesday last at the reading of a Letter from A. Lee Esqr. I moved to commit that Letter together with Mr. Lee’s vindication to a special Committee, 3 besides the reason of the thing, I grounded my motion on a Commitment of a late Memoire from Mr. Deane, a Copy of which you will receive herewith, you will give this perform ance a proper name 4 —the Motion was laboriously opposed & in C. T’s language, 5 after sometime spent in debate, ousted by a motion for adjournment. On some day since Tuesday, a Report from the Treasury was taken up recommending a Warrant to Issue for 10000 Dollars to the Honorble S. D. Esqr in full for his Expenses, from the 4th June 1778. I opposed the Payment of that or any Sum to Mr. Deane until he should account for the large Sums of Public Money which have been in his hands—the question was put shall ten thousand stand— lost. Motion to insert 15000—question lost—to insert 12000—lost—to insert 10500—carried even by voices who were against 10000 or any Sum, because they were wearied & had been wearied; this deficiency of firmness & perseverance is the source of much irregu larity & much evil in public business. The Yeas & Nays were called for in every stage & finally upon the Resolution, I reflect with plea sure that I stand uniformly through the whole. 6 A question was asked of the Treasury, has Mr. Deane given in an account of his expences? artfully replied to by a Gentleman 7 who had formerly
