434 August 31, 1779 given proofs of his abilities in answering Interrogatories—not a regu lar one—not a regular one—this Gentleman perfectly well knew, that Mr. Deane had given in a very minute one, amounting to 29000 Dollars & upwards, he also knew the artifice which had been prac ticed by one of his Colleagues on The Board to repossess Mr. Deane of a Paper which he discovered could not be crammed down the throats even of the Treasury. I had seen that account & had been promised a Copy of it but as I am informed, Mr. Duane the very next morning acted a high pas sion of offence at so shameful a demand & his zeal for the public good carried him rather beyond the line of prudence, he ordered that the Account should be immediately carried back to the deman dant, with a declaration that Congress would allow no such ac counts—as Mr. Deane has not judged it proper to return that or any other, ’tis not to be doubted but that a Gentleman of Mr. Duane’s candor now regrets his rashness in parting with the original. I received this relation from one of those worthy friends who sincerely wish to see right done, but who will not encounter the trouble necessary to accomplish right. I shall endeavor to trace this matter to its source & possibly the whole House will be informed of it. Saturday last a Letter from Mr. Wm. Lee accompanied by his vindication was brought into Congress, but the “Order of the day” laid those papers asleep, yesterday an attempt was made to keep them out of hearing a little longer, I complained heavily of the Innovation & after much debate they were in part read, the House grew thin, & at length only eight states being present, adjourned—I believe I am wrong, W L’s papers were read, those from A L. were not. 8 My Colleague Mr. Drayton has been confined to his Bed some three weeks past, when I had learned that he was really Ill, I could not refrain from visiting him, his permission being previously obtained. When I approached his Bed he clasped my hand & wept affectingly. After recovering his voice he signified his great satisfac tion at seeing me & particularly requested I would write a state of his Case to Mrs. Drayton—the Physicians think him dangerously Ill, say he may live one or two weeks longer—that if he has strength to support the discharge from an abscess in his side, they shall raise him again, but that he will remain an Invalid several Months. Upon Mr. Drayton’s recovery or upon the arrival of another Col league my continuance here partly depends, but I am much inclined to return homeward in the course of next Month, I believe I shall have the honor of waiting on you before the 1st October. Finances as they were. News from Penobscot very unfavorable but no particulars. I would compound for the loss of all our Ships provided the Soldiers & Sailors escape Capture. Dunlap’s Paper of this Morning will pres ent Rowland some intelligence. 9 I beg Sir you will present my Compliments to your Brother I shall
