September 1, 1779 443 Mr. Thomson’s Answer—It is not yet entered on the Journal. Go back to Mr. Thomson, give my Compliments and tell him Mr. Duer and Mr. Lanuville are now here, and that Mr. Duer is desirous of seeing it as it is. Mr. Thomson’s answer—I can’t and will not send it—I have it only scrabled on a Piece of Paper. Mr. Duer expressed great surprise at Mr. Thomson’s behaviour and at my patience, and then retired. I then sent Mr. Custer with the following Message—Go back to Mr. Thomson, give my Compliments to him, tell him I am much obliged, and I must submit to him. Mr. T’s. Ansr.—Well, tell him I am very glad he must submit. Mr. Custer assured me, that Mr. Thomson had in every instance abovementioned expressed himself with great anger and haughtiness. Mr. Thaxter, one of Mr. Thomson’s Clerks who was present at the delivery of the Messages and answers abovementioned related the circumstance to Major Young, and expressed his astonishment at Mr. Thomson’s extraordinary behaviour. When the Honorable John Adams was appointed a Commissioner at the Court of Versailles, the Secretary produced to me, as Presi dent of Congress, a Commission to sign for that Gentleman. I observed to him that the writing was on a single Piece of Paper, much crowded, blotted and interlined, and that he should consider the Commission was to make its appearance before the Court of Versailles, and probably before the King of France, therefore I requested him to have a more decent and correct Copy made; he replied very abruptly—I can’t do it over again. I then in the mildest terms said, Mr. Thomson, I will have it copied over fairly in a good hand, and will sign it and you will have nothing to do but to attest it—he imperiously answered, I won’t. 4 After Congress returned to Philadelphia I had frequent occasions to send my Secretary for attested Copies of Resolves of Congress in order to forward them agreeable to the order of the House, in several instances Mr. Thomson returned me for answer, that he had not the Key of the Office, that it was with one of his Clerks, and he did not know where they lodged—these answers were brought to me by my Secretary Major Young, who avers that in many instances which he never reported to me 5 the answers were given abruptly and unmannerly. To mark these facts as being barely disrespectful, is dealing ten derly with Mr. Thomson, because I must otherwise charge him with having entrusted all the Public Records in the hands of strangers whose very abode he was ignorant of. Some time in May last I went into the Secretary’s Office and inti mated to Mr. Thomson that I was desirious of taking out an old Printed Bill of the British House of Commons, commonly called the Fishery Bill, in order to extract a part of it. Mr. Thomson replied, I
