September 1, 1779 445 have the honor of being one, and I trust the Committee will view them in the same light, and honor the Body by doing justice to its Members. Philadelphia Wednesday A.M. 1st Sepr 1779 Henry Laurens. MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 22). In the hand of Moses Young, and dated and signed by Laurens. MS (PHi: Laurens Papers). In the hand of Moses Young, and dated and signed by Laurens. 1 In response to Laurens’ “complaint against the Secretary of Congress for disre spectful behavior,” Congress appointed a committee on August 31 “to enquire into the complaint” and “hear the Secretary in his vindication.” To this committee, consist ing of William Churchill Houston, chairman, Samuel Huntington, and William Paca, Laurens delivered this signed statement of his charges, and the following week the committee received a similar document from Thomson, containing his “vindication.” See JCC, 14:1008; and Charles Thomson to a Committee of Congress, September 6, 1779. There is no other mention of this matter in the journals, but two bits of evidence now brought together for the first time make it possible to conjecture the resolution of the incident. On the verso of the statement that Laurens prepared for the commit tee is found the following cryptic notes in his hand. “Complaint vs. Secretary. Tues day 31st Augt., to Chair Man, to Mr Paca Thurs. Friday 3d dd [delivered]. Thursday Mr. D. had proposed, prosd. Compromise. Wdsdy 8th.” Laurens, it now seems clear, is here referring to his delivery of copies of this document to committee chairman Houston and Paca, and to a compromise proposed by one “Mr. D.” The nature of this compromise and the identity of “Mr. D.” as john Dickinson can be conjectured from the two following brief paragraphs drafted by him on a scrap of paper located in the Logan-Dickinson Collection, PHi. The first paragraph contains a statement which Dickinson undoubtedly hoped that his old friend Thomson would find acceptable; the second was similarly intended for Laurens, whose acceptance would render a committee report and formal congressional resolve on the subject unnecessary. “I am sorry,” Dickinson wrote, “that any Difference has arisen between Mr. & Me [i.e., Charles Thomson], I declare, that it was not my Intention to give him any Offence the Day on which he made his Complaints and that it has been & is my wish on all Occasions to treat him with Respect.” “I shall at all Times,” the statement intended for Laurens reads, “treat Mr with Respect—and am as much concern’d as he can be, that any Difference has arisen between Us. I am willing, that the Committee should obtain Leave of Congress to be discharged from making a Report.” The absence of any further mention of the episode suggests that both Thomson and Laurens agreed to Dickinson’s proposed compromise, and Laurens’ endorse ment on the document printed here indicates that the details of it were probably worked out on Wednesday, September 8. 2 Apparently May 15, 1778, since “the deliberations of Congress respecting Monsr. Lanuville the preceding Morning” refer to the appointment of the chevalier de La Neuville as inspector general of the northern department on May 14, 1778. See JCC, 11:498—99; and these Letters, 9:644n.2, 680—81. 3 The dialogue between Laurens and James Custer and Charles Thomson and Custer reconstructed here is also the subject of the following related document, written and signed by Custer. “About 5 oClock in the afternoon on the “Mr. Laurens, go to Mr. Thomson & give my Compliments to him ask him to send me the Resolution respecting Mr. Laneuville. “Mr. Thomson, It’s not yet entered in the Journal. “Mr. Laurens, go back to Mr. Thomson & give my Compliments to him & tell him
