448 September 3, 1779 the most reasonable terms they shall be able—that being the quantity necessary to Supply the Public Exigences the Current Year. This quantity must be drawn principally from the States of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia—of which the quota of your State is calculated at twelve thousand Barrels. The present exhausted Condition of our Magazines having not more than a Supply of three weeks on hand as appears by the inclosed Extract from the Commissary Generals Letter—the impractibillity of drawing any immediate Supplies from the States of New York and Jersey calls for the most vigorous Exertions of the powers of your State 1 to Co-operate with and facilitate Col. Ephraim Blaine Deputy Commissary General of Purchases for the Middle District in procur ing the Supplies of Flour so immediately wanted. Your Excellencys well known Ardour in the Common Cause will need no Incitements to induce you to lend Col. Blaine every assis tance in your power to promote a business so pressing and Impor tant in such way and by such means as Your Excellency with him shall think most proper and necessary. Signed per Order of the Comtte for Superintending the Commis sary & Quarter Masters departments, your Excellencys most obedt. & most humble Servant, Jesse Root, Chairman RC (NHi: Rodney Manuscripts). In a clerical hand and signed by Jesse Root. 1 A nearly identical letter from Root to Maryland governor Thomas Johnson, set ting the Maryland flour quota at “Fifty thousand Barrels,” is in the Red Books, MdHi. If Root wrote similar letters to Pennsylvania and Virginia, they have not been found. Committee of Congress to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 3d September 1779. We have received Your Excellency’s favor of the 20th Ulto. & return our thanks for its contents, which will afford us much assis tance in forming a Report to Congress respecting the Mustering department, but the Papers which accompanied our Letter of the 5th July are also necessary to our further proceeding, we therefore request you Sir, to order these to be transmitted to us by an early opportunity. 1 We have the honor to be, with very great Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & humble servants, signed by desire of the Committee, Henry Laurens RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by Henry Laurens. 1 In their letter of July 5, the committee, consisting of Laurens, Nathaniel Scudder, and Joseph Spencer, had asked Washington whether the muster department should be abolished or continued, and after convening a council of general officers he reported their opinion that the department “was now become unnecessary.” The reason, he explained, was that the expanded duties of the inspector general’s depart ment now substantially included those of the muster-masters.
