450 September 3, 1779 Marine Committee to Okey Hoagland Sir September 3d. 1779 By recommendation of the Delegates of the State of New Jersey Congress have appointed you Continental Agent in that State as by their Resolve of the 1st. instant which is enclosed. 1 In that station it will fall to your share, to supply all Continental Cruizers or other Vessels in the Continental service, with Provisions, Stores & neces- sarys to assist the Captains and Officers in whatever may be needful to advance them monies necessary for their supply, give them advice and in all things take care of the Interests of the United States. If any Prizes are sent into New Jersey by the Continental Cruizers you are to receive them, libel and prosecute them to condemnation—then make public sale of vessels, cargoes and All effects that are con demned (unless ordered otherwise) and for your guidance we send you A Pamplet containing the Rules and Regulations in these respects. You are duely to transmit to this Committee Inventories of All Prizes and their Cargoes taken by the Continental Vessels of war and sent into your State, and such parts of the Cargoes as we may order to be kept for the Public use, are not to be sold but valued and reserved agreeable to our Orders. You are regularly to transmit to this Com mittee sales of all Prizes by you disposed of, which Sales are to correspond with the Inventories first taken, and hold the Proceeds ready to be paid agreeable to our Orders. All expences attending the Condemnation, receiving and disposeing of Prizes are to be deducted from the Sales before any distribution is made. The Continental Sloop Argo commanded by Silas Talbot Esqr. has lately sent into Egg Harbour some Prizes which will come under your Direction. It is therefore our desire that you immediately repair to that place, and do what may be needful respecting the said Prizes. You will examine their Papers and determine by the Rules and Regulations of Congress what part of them belongs to the Public. We have had a schedule furnished us of the Cargo of One of those Prizes—She is a Brigantine called the Chance and has on board, a lading of Provisions which is now much wanted for the Public use. 2 We therefore desire that you will divide her Cargo if convenient, and reserve the Continental half of all the articles which compose the same for Public use, except the Bread and Oyle which may be sold. And if the share of the Captors is sold on reasonable terms, that you will purchace it for the Public (except the above mentioned Articles of Bread & Oyle) and have the whole safely stored and kept for the further Orders of this Committee. You will please to advise us of your proceedings in this business and transmit us a particular Account of the Purchases which you make. We are sir, Your Hble servants, LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).
