456 September 5, 1779 of securing its essential Objects, Liberty & Independance, is unalter able; that, they are determined by all the Exertions in their power to advance the Common Cause, and to demonstrate, that while they are attentive to their own Interests, they ardently desire to approve themselves not only faithful but affectionate Allies. Your Residence in America for more than thirteen Months, has enabled You to form a competent Judgement of the Difficulties We have had to encounter during that period; and, We are convinced, your Candor will render You an unexceptionable Witness, how far by these our Efforts have been prevented from corresponding with our Inclinations. Sir, We should be very deficient in the Respect due to distin guished Merit, if We did not embrace this opportunity of testifying, the exceedingly high Esteem, which You have obtained throughout this Country by your public & private Conduct. You have happily combined a vigilant Devotion for the Dignity & Interests of our most excellent & illustrious Ally, with a zealous Attachment to those of these States. Your Prudence, Integrity, Ability & Diligence in dis charging the eminent Trust reposed in You have deserved our entire Confidence, & now sollicit from the strongest Declaration of our perfect Satisfaction in your Behaviour. That the Divine Goodness may grant you the Approbation of your Sovereign, a favorable Voyage, the Restoration of your Health & all Happiness, is among the warmest Wishes of every Member of this Body. MS (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). In the hand of Dickinson and endorsed by Henry Laurens: “Answer to Mr. Gerard.” Dickinson’s rough draft of this address, heavily revised and interlined, is also preserved in the Logan-Dickinson Collection. The text printed here is essentially a clean copy prepared for Laurens’ perusal and contains few revisions from the rough draft. 1 On September 3, a copy of the speech by which the French minister “means to take leave of Congress” was referred to a committee consisting of Dickinson, Henry Laurens, and William Paca with instructions to “prepare an answer.” On the fifth Dickinson sent this draft reply to Laurens with the following note: “Sunday Morning. Mr. Dickinson presents his Compliments to Mr. Laurens, & sends him the Copy of the Minister’s Speech, with a rough Draft of an Answer, which he desires Mr. Laurens will please to alter or correct in such Manner as will be most agreable to his sentiments.” Since the text bears only a brief endorsement in Laurens’ hand, he apparently pro posed no significant changes. The committee’s report was read in Congress on Sep tember 6 and was debated and approved the following day. In a private audience with Congress on September 17, Gerard read his speech and John Jay read Congress’ reply, which varies only slightly from this Dickinson draft. See JCC, 15:1018, 1032, 1035, 1072-74, 1085.
