460 September 6, 1779 offended as to oblige him to complain of me to Congress. He denied his having made any complaint and asked, who informed me. I told him, Some members of Congress. He said, it is a damned lie. They are damned liars that informd. The expression struck me dumb with surprize. He left the room. Turning around I happened to see one of the gentlemen who gave me the information. I repeated to him what had passed. We walked out together. The night was dark; As we passed the end of the house conversing on the subject, he had stopped and hearing our conversation, though we did not see him, he repeated aloud, It is a damned lie. I cannot say which was greatest, my astonishment or resentment. However we passed on without making reply, and I determined before I took any farther steps in the matter to consult with my friends. But in a short time after my resentment was lost in grief and amazement, when, in the midst of the public distress, I saw him at the afternoon sessions so far unmind ful of his station and dignity as to rise and debate questions as a delegate, then sit down and as president hear himself replied to, and at one of those debates or altercations so far forget himself as to answer an honble member from North Carolina 3 by singing aloud, when in the chair “Poor little Penny, poor little penny; sing tantara rara” And at another time when he was reading a report brought in by an honble member from the state of Massachusetts bay which was under debate, to stop in the middle of a sentence and exclaim “Solomon gundy! Did you ever see such a solomon gundy!” which raised such indignation that the honble. member left the room and Congress was adjourned. Upon seeing this conduct, I took no far ther notice of what had passed respecting myself determining how ever to be upon my guard and to give as little cause of offence as possible. This I found the more necessary as he continued by a thousand undescribable ways to teize, irritate and provoke me. 4 During that winter I enjoyed but a very indifferent state of health & had very little assistance in the office, while at the same time by the critical state of public affairs and occurrences which happened, the business of the office was accumulated to a very great degree and the sitting twice a day allowed me less time to dispatch it. This gave him many favourable opportunities which he studiously embraced to teize me with messages and sending for papers which he must have been convinced it was not in my power to have ready and which he must have known would have been sent to him as soon as finished; These messages were generally brought by his coachman James, and were commonly sent to me when I was at dinner or Supper and sometimes when I was going to bed. For it seemed to me that he carefully attended to my hours of refreshment and rest and wished me to enjoy as little of either as possible. This however I bore patiently without murmur or complaint and, I think, without shewing any marks of discontent or uneasiness; though for months together scarce a day passed without visits from his coachman James at improper
