464 September 6, 1779 necessary be examined. What epithet the committee will be pleased to affix to this conduct I must submit to their judgment. As to the information that “since that time I have suffered papers to be taken even out of the secret depository and carried away without the per mission of Congress” I have to say that I never refused any member the free liberty of taking, without permission asked of Congress or receipt given, any paper he desired down into the Congress room or into the chamber adjoining and there reading or making extracts as he pleased until the adjournment, and 1 will also confess that at the adjournment several members have through inadvertence or with out recollecting the rule carried papers home with them, at which I have expressed uneasiness & dissatisfaction, but that I have know ingly & designedly violated the rule will rest with him to prove. 5. 12 This paragraph hinting what he could do, I apprehend is thrown in to shew his skill in oratory and his art in wounding his antagonist by affecting to conceal or pass over charges, which he is conscious he cannot support. He has informed Congress that he kept minutes of my conduct, and by going back a far as 1778 which was the time when the transaction respecting Mr Laneuville happened he has sufficiently evinced that if he had any instances of my gross partiality and Arbitrary conduct, he would not fail to pro duce them. As 13 to the late affair which constitutes the last charge, I am free to declare that I had not the most distant thought or intention of giving offence to him or any other Member. I had frequently heard Mr Lovell who had a principal direction and management in printing the weekly journal and ordering the distribution, for as to myself I never took any concern in the matter as I did not consider it any part of my business. I say I had frequently heard him mention that there was only one copy for each of the members printed upon a fine paper and that if any member wanted to send copies to their state they might be supplied with an [other if] wanted out of those printed on common paper. I had heard him likewise complain that by some members taking more than one, others were deprived and by that means their setts were broken and if they should incline at the end of the year to have them bound into a volume, they must supply the deficiency with those on common paper which would disfigure the volume. For this reason when I took up the bundle to distribute among the members, Mr Lovell being absent, I determined to oblige by delivering to each member one copy. And as there were several members, and among the rest Mr Laurens, at the table when I opened the bundle I thought I paid him particular respect by deliver ing him one first. When he asked for another I desired him to wait until I had delivered one to each member. When he repeated his demand he did it with a tone and in a manner that I confess gave me offence and at the instant determined me to pursue the resolution I had at first taken; when he persisted and seized the bundle in my left
