466 September 6, 1779 great respect at Versailles & I see no reason to object to it. Pray let me know what the question is about it.’ ” 8 In the margin of the FC Thomson wrote at this point “After Congress re turned ... to ignorant of,” a reference to paragraphs 13 and 14 of Laurens’ charges against him. 9 Belcher P. Smith and Thomas Edison. 10 In the margin of the FC Thomson wrote at this point “Sometime in May last &c . . . to permission of Congress,” a reference to paragraphs 15 and 16 of Laurens’ charges against him. 11 George Bond, a clerk in the secretary’s office, and later Thomson’s deputy secretary. 12 In the margin of the FC Thomson wrote at this point “I could recite . . . will be so,” a reference to the first sentence of paragraph 17 of Laurens’ charges against him. 13 In the margin of the FC Thomson wrote at this point “The particular comp laint . . . &c to the end,” referring to the three concluding paragraphs of Laurens’ charges against him. 14 At this point in the FC Thomson inserted a “c” to which he keyed the following note at the foot of the page. “This outrageous language & insolent behaviour may be attributed to his want of education and to his having been bred among negro slaves over whom he had been accustomed to tyrannize & against whom he could vent his ill humours & turbulent passions not only with impunity but to effect. ‘Nothing,’ says a sensible & ingenious author, ‘is so insolent as a man who lives almost always with his inferiors; but when those inferiors are slaves accustomed to serve infants and to fear even their crying for which they must suffer punishment, what can be expected of masters who have never obeyed, profligates, who have never met with chastisement and madmen who load their fellow creatures with chains?’ Histoire philosophique et politique des etablissemens des Europiens de deux Indes. T[ome] 4, p 201.” Thomson’s quotation is a careful translation of Guillaume Thomas Francois Raynal, Histoire philosophique et politique, des etablissemens id du commerce des europiens dans les deux Indes, 7 vols. in 5 (Amsterdam, 1772 — 74), 4:201—2. The survival of this manuscript is noteworthy in view of reports that Thomson eventually destroyed most of his personal papers and refused to write a history of the American Revolution, despite the repeated urgings of friends, out of regard for the reputations of many of his contemporaries. His bitter denunciation of Laurens and the explanation quoted in note 4 above that Congress was reluctant to sit twice daily because delegates were often drunk in the afternoon underscore how deeply this experience rankled within him. The notes containing these remarks are found only in the FC Thomson retained in his personal papers, and do not appear in the MS from the Laurens Papers at PHi or in the text printed in Potter’s American Monthly and reprinted in Burnett’s Letters, 4:401—8, which were probably the copies prepared for the committee and for Laurens. For Thomson’s sensitivity to the reputations of the founding fathers, which rests heavily upon the authority of Benjamin Rush, see J. Edwin Hendricks, Charles Thomson and the Making of a New Nation, 1729—1824 (Rutherford, N.J.: Fairleigh Dickinson University Press, 1979), p. 189. That Laurens was not the only delegate Thomson had difficulty getting along with seems clear from a brief reference by Samuel Holten to an incident a few months later in which Thomson and James Searle of Pennsylvania exchanged blows with their canes, though whether the the affair took place in or out of Congress is not recorded. See Samuel Holten’s Diary, January 19, 1780. John Collins to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia Septr. the 7th. 1779 Their is no impropriety in addressing me on any Subject that Concerns yourself, or on any other subject Relating to publick affairs,
