September 7, 1779 467 and Shall be allways ready to give you, the best information in my power. The views of Congress Some times air misterious and past finding out, but not designingly unjust. I have that Charity for the greatest part of Congress that they mean to do that which is Right and best for the good of the whole, but their plans dont allways opperrate for the best. I am fulley persuaded much the grater part of the members of Congress wish to do Strict Justis to the army, but the Confused State of our money makes it Extreme difficult to know what to do. I am fulley of your opinion that Clamours against publick Abuses & publick measures are mostly from men that have not the good of their Country at hart, but air Activated by views to Rais themselves into importance by Sowing discord and Endeavouring to throw the Publick affairs into discord. I have not heard any Complaint against you as Quartermaster General, (but many Against the inferiour officers in your depart ment), nither do I think their is any attack, Designed agains you; if I should discover any Such design, you may depend I will give you speedy information. The suspitions I hinted to you last summer I still Concive to be justly grounded, but flater myself that party are looseing ground in Congress fast. The attack made on me last May I am fully Convinced originated from that quarter, and went from Congress to the State, for I stood much in the way of what they Called the New England 1 intrest, and I make no doubt but Mr. S.A. & Mr. W.E. 2 will use all their influance to damn me with the People, but they may be Damd. them Selves for what I Care for them or their party. I will Act my part as I think best for the publick good, and Suffer no junto or party to influance me or lead me from what I think best for the good of the whole, it is well known I am not a begot to any party, Religious or Sivil, but have Endeavored to Support the Carrectar of an honest independant man. I have inclosd you a journal of Congress least by any mistake you have not had one Sent you—you will observe the votes on July the 9th. 3 You must be the best judge of your own department and what part to act—but in a friendly maner I would advise, not to be over warm in defence of them that Act under you, but do them Strict justice and leave their defence to them Selves. Any affair in Congress that may heave up, you may Enquir of me freely, and you may depend I will inform you as far As is Consistant with my duty to the publick—if Any thing Worthy notice in the Camp a line from you would be Agreeable. I am with Esteem & Sincerity your friend that is Allways Ready to Serve, John Collins RC (DLC: Greene Papers).
