September 7, 1779 471 countermanding the Orders given in that letter respecting the pur chase of the Prize Brigantine Chance’s Cargo. It is now our desire that the whole of that vessels Cargo may be set up to sale, and no part of it reserved or purchased by you for the public Account except the Vinegar which you are to purchase let the price be what it will and send forward to this place. We are sir, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Marine Committee to John Langdon Sir Marine Committee, Philadelphia Septr. 7th 1779 Should any of the Prizes taken by the Continental Ships Providence, Queen of France & Ranger on their late Cruise come under your direction, we desire that you will reserve the Continental Share of the Rum & Sugar on board of them for the Public use, having it Stored and kept for the further Orders of this Committee sending a particular Invoice of the same. We are Sir, Your very Hble Servts, Wm. Whipple Chairman 1 RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). Written and signed by William Whipple. 1 The committee also sent the following, similar letter to the Continental agent at Boston, John Bradford, this day. “We are favoured with yours of the 26th Ultimo covering a Schedule of the Cargoes of the Prizes taken by the Providence, Queen of France, and Ranger, on their late Cruize. We now desire that you will reserve the Continental Share of the Rum and Sugar on board such of those Prizes as may come under your direction, for the Public use having it safely Stored & kept for the further orders of this Committee and transmitting to us a particular Invoice of the same.” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:107. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett My Dear sir, No.7 Philad. Sept 7h. 1779. Your kind favour of the 21 ulto 1 inclosing one from Mrs Peabody I have duly reed and am extreamly oblig’d by the Care you have taken in forwarding Letters to & from me—I inclose you Several papers, & extracts by which you will have some information &c. The Spanish ambassador left the British Court the 18h of June last and went immediately to France. The British Court have Sent out two Emissaries to Seduce these States from their Alliance with France. 2 I Should forward a long Copy of Mr. J. A—ms report upon important matters of Public Concernment, 3 made officially, Since his return—but you will Soon have it by Genl Whipple who Sets off for home in Consequence of Mr L—d—ns 4 arival here the 3d
