September 7, 1779 473 Copy Extra—of the Acts of the Genl. Assembly, to the End we may be enabled to make the Communication requested, to the Delegates of New Jersey. This may perhaps be introductory of one more general, and which must prove very beneficial. We inclose your Excellency two of the Weekly Journals, in Course to those heretofore transmitted down to the 7th of August last, and the last Weeks News Papers. We congratulate your Excellency upon the brave Exploit at Paulus Hook—upon the good News from Spain— The further Success of Genl Sullivan against the Indians—and we trust, upon the Reduction of Fort Detroit by the celebrated Col. Clarke, whose Exploits at the Illonois, &c & in the Capture of Govr. Hamilton were not long since announced to the Publick. The Cap ture of ten of the Jamaica Fleet is a most capital Stroke. Several have been brought into the Southern Ports. Col. Talbots Exploits and good Fortune are highly pleasing—and he continues to gain with hasty Steps much Honor to Himself and the State. Upon the Applica tion of the Town of Providence, We have procured a Resolution of Congress for erecting Barracks at the Expence of the United States, for quartering the Troops in the State of Rhode Island in such Place, as Genl. Gates shall approve of. 2 As this must greatly releive the Distresses of many of Our Constituents we flatter Ourselves it will not be an unacceptable Peice of Service for that Confidence, & with full Assurance of our unremitted Zeal to serve the State We have the Honor to represent we are Your Excellencys most obedient & very humble Servts. Hy Marchant John Collins RC (RHi: Marchant Papers). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant and Collins. 1 See also Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council, August 24, 1779, note 1. 2 See the following entry. Rhode Island Delegates to the Committee of Providence Gentlemen, Philadelphia Sept. 7th. 1779 Your Letter of the 16th of July was reed, on the 23d of the same Month, and as soon as possible laid before Congress together with the Vote of the Town of Providence. They were committed to the Board of War, and upon a Report of the Board of War the inclosed Resolution of Congress was made, which We conceive will entirely answer the Expectations of the Town of Providence and much ease the Good Inhabitants of the State who have long sustained an unequal Burthen of the most disagreable Nature. 1 The Application to Us of so respectable a Number of Our Constituents could not fail of demanding our immediate Attention, and most strenious Endeav-
