474 September 7, 1779 ours for their Relief—at the same Time we conceived it highly proper to obtain a Resolution upon so broad a Basis, that Barracks might be erected at the Discretion of Genl. Gates at other Places within the State than the Town of Providence or its immediate Vicinity, that so some other Parts of the State might be releived from similar Inconve niences with what the Town of Providence have so peculiarly sustained. An Answer to your Letter was omitted earlier, as We were in daily Expectations of a completion of the Business. We shall at all Times religiously attend to tbe Wishes of Our Constituents, and shall be happy to have in any Instance obtained Relief for, and answered the Expectations of the Good People of the Town of Providence. You will be pleased Gentlemen to lay this Letter before the Town at their next Meeting and assure them that we shall at all Times study to deserve their Approbation—and that we are with great Truth their, very humble Servts. Hy Marchant John Collins RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant and Collins. Addressed: “The Honorable Major Genl. James M. Varnum, Ephraim Bowen and Nicholas Cooke Esqrs. at Providence, State of Rhode Island &c.” 1 The committee’s letter had not been read in Congress until August 25; and on September 6 Congress directed that barracks be erected in Providence at Continental expense. See JCC, 14:993, 15:1031. Meriwether Smith to the Virginia Board of Trade Gendemen, Philadelphia Sep. 7th. 1779. The Delegates of Virginia reed, your favor of 7th ulto. requesting their Assistance to procure for John Moss esqr a Sum of continental Dollars, for which the Board of Trade in Virginia would be respon sible. In Consequence of which they obtained a Warrant on the Treasury for four hundred thousand Dollars in favor of John Moss esqr, for which the State of Virginia is to be accountable. 1 I expect Mr. Moss has acquainted you that he hath received the Money. With Respect to the Brandy you mentioned in your Letter, we should have given him the Assistance you requested, but he had settled the Dispute previous to your Application. I am, in Behalf & per order of the Delegates here, yr. most obedt. Sevt. Meriwether Smith RC (CSmH: Brock Collection). 1 In their August 24 representation to Congress the Virginia delegates had requested $400,000 “for the purpose of purchasing supplies of Cloathing & other Necessaries for the immediate Use of the Troops of that State in the Continental Army.” See JCC, 14:991; and PCC, item 71, 1:269-70.
