September 8, 1779 479 of the Courant. For the latter essay, see James Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 8, 1779, note 2. Although Ellsworth signed his rebuttal simply “A Friend to Truth and Fair Play,” he is identified as its author by Nehemiah Hubbard, deputy quartermaster at Hartford, in a September 7 letter to Jeremiah Wadsworth. See Burnett, Letters, 4:41 In.4. The essay is printed here because of the interesting insights into congres sional activities provided by Ellsworth, even though he had left Philadelphia in Febru ary 1779. It is addressed “To the Unknown Letter Writer in Philadelphia, who lately revealed to the public the situation of their affairs," and is dated “Hartford, Septem ber 1, 1779.” “I Cannot call you by name, Sir, but I see well enough what you aim at. You mean, if insinuations will do it, to overset the Congress and break up the union; and perhaps you think you are doing God service too; but you certainly use the devil’s means. If we did not know Congress better than we do you, we might perhaps believe what you say of them. If we had not tried them and proved them at home we might believe they are traitors and ass riden because you say it. In one thing you shewed your wisdom, it [tn?] hiting upon a lucky time for your appearance. People are always cross and jealous enough when things go ill, and it was just then a time of great darkness. But you made a wretched mistake in another place; you never tho’t that to do your work effectually it was necessary to conceal your malice; nor that saying things which could not be true would blast your whole design. “If you had only told us that Congress were a slow body, and let their business run behind hand no body would have questioned you; for we all know that such a body as Congress is can’t move otherwise but slow. There are too many men, too many states represented, of different interests, customs and habits to get along with dispatch. And sometimes they will seem to be forever about a thing before they can get it into such a shape as suits them all; and it may be a small matter too. But this is no new thing under the sun; nor is there any help for it. “If you had also gone further and told us that Congress sometimes grow warm and have high debates, and are zealous on one side and the other; this we could have believed to; for the same happens in all free assemblies under heaven. Freedom of thought and freedom of debate, among men of bold spirits, will sometimes make warm work, and would scare a clown out of his wits. “But that Congress should be ass-riden with a junto is a matter that wants proof. This junto, by your account of it, is as full of wonders as the beast in the Revelations is of horns, and near as powerful. It consists, you say, mostly of New England men; who we know are elected not without regard to their religion as well as their politics: Yet they are here combined to vote alike in all cases, let oath and conscience go where it will, and let the public interest go where it will. They are to take care of themselves and connections, and at all events hang together; and if all this is true they ought all to hang in one haltar; and I should have no objection, Sir, if you crave the jobb to your being hangman. This junto you tell us was formed in the first Congress, five years ago, and has continued and governed Congress to this day; carrying the votes just as they please; and whom they would they set up and whom they would they pull down; and the rest of Congress, the virtuous part, tho’ a great majority, have all the while crouched down and born it. And what is more astonishing still, the matter has to this day been kept a profound secret. A wonderful work of great wickedness has been carrying on in Congress for five years and yet no mortal ever heard of it; neither from good men within doors nor from bad ones without. Another wonder in the matter is, that this wonderful combination has held its own so long. The members of Congress have been continually changing from the beginning, so that scarcely one of the first set are left behind; yet this junto, ordained to last forever, remains fixed as fate—and are preserved, you inform us, by a sort of Contrivance—they so contrive it as to keep in. This is the ne plus of the matter, and ends in magick and mystery. I must not however omit to observe, that the effects produced by this junto, are quite as inexplica ble as the manner of its existance. To instance only in the case of Mr. Dean, to whom it is said to have been ever unfriendly and wrought against him. If so how can we account for his appointments from Congress one after another till he got to be their
