480 September 8, 1779 minister? This junto being all the while unfriendly and working against him, and all the while governing Congress at pleasure. This with some other difficulties you will note, Sir, to be explained in your next address. But to proceed and “Attend a little to the account you give us of our Commissioners at Paris. These you represent as totally ignorant of what is transacted in France, Spain, or England and that Congress gain no information from them. Do you believe this, Sir, yourself, or expect that any body else should? What have you to say of Dr. Franklin? Has he no discernment? Who discovered and taught us how to manage the lightning, and lead it about with a thread? Was not the Doctor received at the Court of France with unusual marks of honor and confidence? Does not Mr. Dean in his narrative, which it seems you had a sight of, celebrate him highly as a politician and philosopher as well as his friend: Yet you would now persuade us that he is perfectly insignificant and a fool! And what, Sir, have you to say of Mr. Adams, whose character as a warm and enterprizing patriot, and able statesman, is I trust too well established in both coun tries to suffer by the attacks of envy. As to Mr. Lee, be his other talents or graces what they may, you know, if you know any thing about him, that it is the soul of that man to be forever prying into secrets and communicating them to his employers, and that he has written letters enough himself to Congress, since he has been in France to have made a volume; and among much other interesting intelligence, has not failed to furnish them seasonably and very particularly from time to time with the secrets of the British cabinet. And I will venture to add had he wrote somewhat less than he has he might have been less obnoxious to men both on that side of the water and on this. And yet, Sir, you would persuade us that since the recal of Mr. Dean [Congress?] have entrusted our foreign affairs to men of little discernment and no information at all. “Not less groundless and malignant is your reproach of Congress upon the subject of a foreign loan. This you insinuate they might have obtained, if, according to Mr. Dean’s opinion when he returned from France, they had immediately sent a proper person after it; but that instead of sending immediately, they have been quarreling amongst themselves, and not able to this day to agree who shall go after and have the handling of it. Do you not know, Sir, or do you suppose that others do not, that Congress, before Mr. Dean’s return, had instructed their commissioners respecting a foreign loan; and that the most likely courts in Europe from whence to obtain it had been sounded upon the subject more than a year ago, and the reason why it was done without success must be obvious to every one who will consider but for a moment that the warlike appearances and preparations in that quarter of the world make a good market for all their money nearer home, and borrowers enough that can give more unquestionable and established security than we as yet can. Nor ought we perhaps to regret the disappointment. We are now reduced to the necessity of taxing ourselves and paying as we go; which though more irksome for the present, may be less so hereafter than a foreign debt and less dangerous to the liberties of the people. Nor are our finances by any means in that distressed and languishing state as that they must fail without foreign support. Since the expedient of taxing copiously has been adopted they have not languished. For three months past the money has sunk none; I appeal to all purchasers and men that handle it. But, Sir, to proceed to your “Fourth and last charge against Congress. Which is that they have neglected the proper means when offered to them for bringing the war to a close. That Spain was disposed to have negotiated with Great-Britain, and obtained a peace for us; could she but have known what our terms were. That Congress was acquainted of this so early as February last, and then and ever since pressed upon to give Spain an answer, but have never yet done it; through which neglect her mediation has been delayed and she kept back and prevented doing anything for us or herself. That Spain has ever applied directly or indirectly to know our terms is false, absolutely so. She and all the world knows that we claim to be independent; and that Great Britain must be brought to acknowledge or cede that claim, before there is a possibility of a treaty between us upon national grounds. She must first yield to us the great point that we are in fact a nation or States independent of her, then and not till then may we go on to treat and settle our extent, appendages, rights of commerce, etc., and draw the
