September 9, 1779 489 Laurens’ interest in the related issue of free navigation of the Mississippi, see also Laurens’ Notes on Negotiating Instructions, August ? 1779. 2 Shortly after Congress resolved on September 17 to offer Spain a guaranty to her claims to the Floridas, the Spanish agent in Philadelphia, Juan de Miralles, sent the following interesting report to Jose de GAlvez, Minister of the Indies in Madrid. “The Congress has agreed,” Miralles wrote on September 24, “upon the points which will be presented to the Court of the King our Sire by the Minister Plenipoten tiary whom they will name to represent them there. I have learned that they are the same points which I have had the honour of reporting to Your Excellency, except that now they claim free entrance and egress on the Mississippi River. This claim has been advanced by the members from the northern provinces, which actually are the prov inces to which that privilege is least profitable. 1 have tried as well as I am able, lacking authority to do so otherwise, to inform and to convince them that our King will never accede to that demand, and Monsieur Gerard has helped me by doing the same. “The opposing party, to which the President belongs, is convinced by our persuasion. They have agreed to include that claim only in order to avoid controversies and to accelerate the passage of the resolution, which was being delayed by disputes. They believe that, although it is not to have any effect, it will serve as a basis for the opening of negotiations, which they are sure will be concluded to the satisfaction of His Majesty, because all the members of Congress unanimously express their desire to concur with whatever may be to the Royal pleasure of His Majesty. They and the general public base their hopes of future happiness on his protection and friendship. “The list of instructions for the Minister who is to be chosen has been completed. He has not yet been named, but they say he will be chosen by tomorrow. Many people favor Arthur Lee for the post, but his opponents expect to prevent his appointment and hope that the position will be given to another. If one is named before the departure of the frigate on which Monsieur Gerard will travel I shall have the honour of reporting his identity to Your Excellency. “If His Majesty were pleased to permit the Americans who are already settled on the Ohio River and those who will settle there to ship their productions down the Mississippi River to Nueva Orleans, making that city a depot at which to sell their products to subjects of the King and to receive in exchange products imported from Europe, the transactions would be very profitable to the Royal Treasury and to the Spanish nation, as Your Excellency’s keen understanding will perceive. . . . This method would be adopted very gladly by the Congress and all the investors in those settlements, and perhaps would lead to the concession of other claims on the part of His Majesty.” Audiencia de Santo Domingo, Legajo 2598, Archivo General de Indias, Seville (Aileen Moore Topping translation, Manuscript Division, DLC). Jesse Root to Jeremiah Wadsworth Dear Sir Philadelphia Septr 9th, 1779 Congress have resolved not to emit on any Account Whatever more than 200,000,000 dollars & Expect to depend on the States to Supply the Treasury by Taxes & loans. By official accounts from France Spain has taken an active part in the war against England, and its thought in France that England, to avoid the hard necessity of acknowledging the Independance of America will Send Commissioners with power to with draw the Troops from America & attempt a Seperate Treaty, thereby to detach us from the Alliance. They may make a Merit of necessity—being obliged to with draw their Troops to protect their own territories,
