September 13, 1779 491 Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Huntington Sir Philadelphia 13th September 1779 I return you my greatfull Acknowledgements for your favour of the 3rd Instant, a Correspondence as at all times agreable, but at the present, profitable as well as pleasant; & may prove advantagous to the public as well as my Self in my present Situation to know what is done & doing in distant parts & particular in Connecticutt. It is doubtless wise & proper to keep N London & the Coast in general guarded as well as possible tho, I begin to hope the Enemy will make no further Incursions into Connecticutt or none consider able. The Recruits arrivd with Arbuthnott by the best Intelligence we can obtain are between 2 & 3 thousand & many of them Sickly and we have Just receivd Intelligence from N. York that a number of troops are Embarking, their distination unknown but Conjectured for Some Warmer climate as the Officers are providing themselves with thin Light Cloaths. A Packet is arrivd from England at N. York which came out Since the Spanish Manifesto was published, but nothing as yet Transpires. We have it from high Authority in France that Since Spain have taken decisive measures in their favour, it is Supposd the Brittish Cabinet were Sending out Emissaries to Congress in Some Shape or other to offer a truce with us & withdraw all their troops provided America will renounce her Alliance & Connection with France; whither there be any foundation for this Supposion or not time must discover, Indeed nothing but their past folly could induce any belief they would be Such fools. You may be assured that all the Insinuations you have heard that Congress might have made peace but prevented the terms &c are wholly groundless & published or propagated by Ill minded persons with an evil design. Congress are desirous of peace the moment that Safe & honorable terms are offered and in all probability the day is not far distant when dire Necessity will bring Brittain to those terms. I have the pleasure to inform you A very good harmony Subsists in Congress. They have come to a Resolution to Stop Emission which you will Soon See with the plan adopted, & address on the Subject. 1 This Step with proper Oeconomy & Such other measure as may be adopted I cannot but hope will have a Sensible beneficial Effect upon the Currency. I am Sir with Sentiments of Esteem & Regard, your humble Servt, Sami. Huntington P.S. Letters by the post from the Eastward of late come to this City very regular & Safe so that Intelligence may readily be conveyed in that way.
