492 September 13, 1779 RC (NRom: Huntington Collection). 1 The “address” was approved by Congress this day and sent to the states the next day. See John Jay to the States, September 14, 1779. Henry Laurens’ Notes [September 13? 1779] 1 Notes for my Remarks in Congress Finances, are the Revenues of a State or kingdom. Financiers, are Men who devise ways & means for assessing & collecting revenues. He is the best financier who points out particular subjects in his State for assessment, from whence the largest revenues may be drawn, with the least expence, & which the people will pay with the least murmuring. For taxes & murmuring more or less, are inseparable Companions. The duty of Congress is to be watchful over the expenditure of the Public Money, to call those Men in whose hands such Money has been entrusted to strict accounts at stated periods—to make an Esti mate year by year of the public debt & to assign just proportions of the whole debt to be raised by the States respectively in order to discharge the whole annual Amount. It is the duty of the several States to finance, agreeably to the custom or local circumstance of each, & to assess & collect by ways & means of their own devising, the proportion of the general debt, which shall have been assigned to each & to remit such proportions into the general Treasury within stated periods. 2 Congress have in no Instance acted the Financier, except in the single article of Loan or borrowing Money. How that branch has been ceconomised both abroad & at home is known only to a few Members of this House, the rest are almost ignorant, our constituents at large are altogether so—when the bur thens of Taxes fall heavily upon them, they will open their Eyes & enquire—and then—but here I draw a Veil. Congress being the most mutable public body on earth is not tangible. Who shall applaud it for the benefits or censure it for the Evils arising from the Mancevres & voices of Men whose names are not upon Record, or from the dead preengaged Vote of one, whose voice has established many an important point when he had no right to sit here 3 —& whose detection & consequent cecession has neverthe less been much lamented. MS (PHi: Laurens Papers). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 It is not known for what purpose Laurens drafted these notes. They are so general he could have used them on a number of different occasions. They have been placed here simply because Laurens was a member of a committee “appointed the 3d Instant
