498 September 15, 1779 [P. S. ] Permit me to recommend the bearer Captain Campbell 2 who will relate to you his Situation for your advice & good Offices with his Excellency—on whos behalf I shall also write a line 3 to Genl. St. Clair. Also to recommend Major Swaine 4 Brotherinlaw to Genl. Muhlenberg who doubtless will be Obliged by yr. advice, being appointed the State Cloathier for the Pennsylvania Line of the Army. RC (PHi: Wayne Papers). 1 At this point Armstrong inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the name “Solomon” at the foot of the page. 2 Perhaps Capt. Robert Campbell, of the Invalid Corps, who had lost an arm and was taken prisoner at Staten Island in August 1777. Campbell had escaped in August 1778, but the question whether he had been a prisoner on parole had been raised and he was seeking clarification of his status and a possible exchange for a British officer of equal rank. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:337, 361. A September 22 letter from Campbell to Washington is in the Washington Papers, DLC. 3 Not found. 4 Francis Swaine, who was married to Gen. John Peter Gabriel Muhlenberg’s sister Anna Maria Catherine, and was formerly adjutant of Muhlenberg’s 8th Virginia Regiment. John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia Septr. 15th, 1779 By a late Letter from the Board of War it appears, that they despair of being able to provide Cloathing for the troops. The several States will be depended on by Congress for the necessary requisite for their respective Lines. 1 I therefore think it my Duty to give You this Intelligence, as I do not doubt but immediate and effectual Measures will be taken in our State, for comfortably cloathing our worthy & brave Officers & Soldiers. I am, Sir, your very hble Servt. John Dickinson RC (NN: Rodney Letters). 1 Dickinson is referring to the Board of War recommendation adopted by Congress on September 10 “that each State should provide cloathing for its own quota of [Continental] troops.” JCC, 15:1044—45. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday Sepr 15th. 1779 Commercial Committee. Congress. After reading the Journals, the Delegates moved for their motion made Yesterday to be Enterd 1 which caused a long debate on Point of order, and I not being well I left Congress.
