September 17, 1779 507 ties from the State House to the Hotel; but I cannot say that I ever discovered a consequent Manifestation of Dislike. Those Browbeat ings however are never practiced against manly Indifference. Per haps it would have been better if several of us had not, from an aversion to even the appearance of Sycophancy, left a Stranger with out proper Warnings against that insidious Class. Ford has not been here. You know by my Letters of April 11 that he was judged by the State of Virginia to be not fit to be near the Person of an American Commissioner. R H L has been greatly indisposed but is mending now in his Health. I doubt whether you will by this opportunity know any thing decisive of our opinion respecting the 2 Spanish points of negociation; but you may depend on it that we are dis posed to do every Thing to cement a triple Alliance whenever Spain shall signify her Wishes through you or other regular Channel. The Floridas are not ours; they belong to our Enemy. A free Navigation of the Miss’pi. is to be wished for but cannot be claimed if S 12 owns both Banks near the Mouth though millions of Acres of Vir ginia lay also on the Waters of that River higher up. Are you so munified with orders from the State of Virginia that if a Vessel with Goods sent by you for that State should be lost you will not be made to bear the whole burden? I have been told such a Thing is whispered here. Pray be on yr. Guard. Caution is what an honest Man may condescend to learn from Rogues. I must endeavor to speak a good Word for Daddy Dumas. 13 He has been very particular in the margins of the Leyden Gazette Feb. 23 to write where it respects you. “Je nai aucune part a toute cette insertion; & je n’ai pu la voir qu’ avec affliction”. I should think he would not hesitate to tell the author of that rascally Paragraph which is in the Gazette of March 30. How wou’d the Refusal consist with his written profession above mentioned? You have had an abandoned set at your Elbow to watch over. And you made some here very rancorous at the first of yr. Correspondence. I never cou’d find by the Books of the Comtee. who the two were that you was mistrustful of. 14 The Letter Book is not signed, so as that I can see who were 2d & 5th. It will not do to take them as they stand on the Journals when elected. But if Complaisance put Franklin in the Chair I get Harison & Jay. You also once said something about Mr. Duane’s Servant. An Attempt was made to embitter the Mind of Govr. Reed who hap pened to be a Member of Congress when the Dictionary came to light. But Mr. Reed says you did your Duty well. 15 Something in yr. Letters to the Comtee was in Cyphers. Merryweather Smith decyphered it readily otherwise I must have sent it on to Vir ginia to yr. Brother. I know that R H L thinks that mode is now as useless as if Deane knew it; need I say more? I think it would be clever to have a Cypher in Comtee, but not to be also used to your Brother or yr. Friend; those should be distinct ones. We have never yet got but one Treaty printed in French by Authority. I mean one
