510 September 17, 1779 Order them advances to be made, but with a sparing hand. We have the honor to be, Your Excellencys, Very Hble servants P. S. We have the pleasure to inform you that our frigates have lately had very great Success, having among many other Captures, taken ten homeward bound Jamaica Men fully ladened and two packets One Outward and the Other homeward bound—For partic ulars beg leave to refer you to the Papers. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 In this June 3 letter, which was misdated June 2, 1779, in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:201—2, Franklin had reported a mutiny aboard the frigate Alliance, “which you were pleased to put under my orders. There has been a conspiracy on board,” he explained, “to seize and run away with the ship to England. Thirty-eight of the crew concerned in the plot were brought in under confinement, and the captain was much embarrassed with them and suspicious of many more. We could not try them here for want of officers sufficient to make a court-martial. The French admi ralty could not take cognizance of their offense. The captain objected to carrying them back, as both troublesome and dangerous. In fine, we got leave to land and confine them in a French prison, where they continue till further orders.” PCC, item 168, 1:683-86. Marine Committee to Seth Harding Sir September 17th 1779 The Ship Confederacy under your command being destined to carry His Excellency the sr. Gerard Minister Plenipotentiary of his most Christian Majesty and his Suit to France, you are to receive them on board and immediately set Sail making the best of your way to any Port which the Minister may think proper to direct and on your passage you are carefully to avoid coming to action with any vessel of equal or superior force. Your Ship being entirely designed for the Accommodation of the Minister you are in all things as far as may be, to comply with his wishes and to treat him with the respect due to his character. On Your Arrival in France you are to forward to his Excellency Benjamin Franklin Esqr. Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States at the Court of Versailles the Letter Given you herewith together with a state of your Ship who will give you orders for your govern ment, you are to apply to the American Agent in the Port at which you arrive for Such necessarys as may be wanted and immediately proceed to give your Ship such repairs as may be needful fitting her again for the Sea with all possible dispatch. You are to take on board your Ship such Stores for the use of these States as may be offered by the Agents in France, so as not to incommode your vessel as a Ship of war and when you have received the Orders of our Minister you are immediately to make the best of your way back to this Port or into Chesapeake Bay, and if into the latter you are to inform us of
