September 18, 1779 511 your arrival. As it is probable that you and your officers will stand in need of Some advances in France, we have requested our Minister to give Orders for that purpose and if necessary that your Crew have Clothing and a little Money in which we desire you will be very frugal. Should you take any Prizes and Order them to france they are to be put under the care of such persons as our Minister may direct, and such Prizes as you may order to these States are to be directed to the Continental Agent of the State in which they arrive. If you can procure a Set of good 18 Pounders when in France and you are of opinion that the Confederacy can bear them, you are at liberty to mount them & put those you have now on Deck into your hold. We desire you will be careful of the Confederacy her Materials and Stores and that you will not delay any time unnecessarily in France but be diligent for dispatch. Wishing you health & Success We are sir, Your Hble Servants P. S. We have agreed that Major Scull & Mr. Williamson shall take their passage in the Confederacy and that Mr. Clarkson an Acting Midshipman on board shall have leave to stay in France for his education. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). John Jay to Marriot Arbuthnot Sir, Philada. 18th Sept. 1779. Your favor of the 30th Ulto. was immediately on its arrival commu nicated to Congress, & by them referred to the marine Committee for the purpose of ascertaining the Facts mentioned in it. You will perceive by their Report a copy of which is herewith enclosed that You have been misinformed/ I am with due consideration, Sir, your most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In his August 30 letter to Congress, Arbuthnot, “Vice Admiral & Commander in Chief of the British Squadron in North America,” had complained of the treatment of two British naval prisoners and asked Congress to “assign satisfactory reasons for this treatment that no improper retaliation may take place here on our part.” The letter had been referred to the Marine Committee, which reported that the prisoners were not “in close and cruel confinement” as stated by Arbuthnot, and Congress immedi ately resolved to report this finding to the admiral. See JCC, 15:1037, 1075; and PCC, item 78, 1:313-16.
