512 September 18, 1779 John Jay to Horatio Gates Sir, Philada. 18, Sept. 1779. Your favor, transmitting the Intelligence from Mr. Proud, has arrived—a confirmation of it would give us great pleasure. 1 The enclosed for Capt. Talbot, contains an honorary Reflection in his favor, be so obliging as to transmit it to him. 2 I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most Obedient and humble Servant. John Jay. Presidt. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 1 An extract of John Proud’s September 5 letter to Gates, which Gates had enclosed in a letter of the sixth and General Washington had enclosed in one of the 12th, is in PCC, item 152, 7:759. JCC, 15:1072. Proud had reported from Rhode Island that 13 days previously Admiral d’Estaing had been sighted at “latitude of 25 & longitude of 70,” with 25 sail of the line, 18 frigates, and 6,000 troops, steering northwest. 2 See Jay to Silas Talbot, this date. John Jay to Alexander Hamilton Dear Sir Phi. 18 Septr. 1779 Your favors of the 25, 26, & 30 July & 12 Inst 1 have thus long remained unanswered. This Circumstance would naturally lead you to think me inattentive; others will induce you to ascribe it to a different Cause. Exclusive of Business which I never admit or urge as an Excuse for such omissions, want of Health has rendered me less punctual in my private Correspondence than I would wish. The approaching Season will give me Health & Inclination will always prompt me to support a Correspondence with those I value & esteem, in which number I have long considered you. Your sentiments respecting the Gentleman named in your first letter perfectly correspond with my own 2 and tho I wish to see him in a Situation agreable to himself & distant from the Place of his Residence, I cannot prevail upon myself to propose his appointmt to the one you mention, which is daily growing into Confidence & Importance. My Doubts respecting this Gentleman are of long stand ing and arise from Circumstances which made deep Impression on my mind. I should never forgive myself if before these Doubts are removed I should recommend him to an office in the execution of which they should become fully justified. Our opinions of his Tal ents Disposition & Passions are the same & I am well apprized of the Consequences which wd. result from their being exerted to obtain the objects of his Pursuit. Some other mode of diverting them may perhaps offer. I have seen, respected & pitied Monsr. Neuville. 3 Considering how some of his Countrymen have been promoted, his feelings have
