518 September 20, 1779 ence & power in any of these States so lost to public Virtue & patriot ism as to engage in the Sale of his Country for a Mess of Potage, all those with whom I have conversed speak of this matter with abhorance! Its a damned thing to be poor, human nature is frail! Gold has many powerful Charms! Have you never seen Men in a Boat rowing very hard one way and looking directly another? But I will not harbour the Idea, the Virtue of America that has carried us so far through this Contest will not now submit to Temptation. The Marquis La Fayette writes to Carmichael that the Grand Fleet of France with a large Army on board Transports had sailed for Ireland, what think you, do they mean to Conquer it or to give Freedom and Independence to that Country, whatever their Views may be they will distress Britain and that Affords some pleasure from the consid eration that it will hasten a disposition in her to give us peace. I am dear Sir, your mo Obed Servant, Joseph Hewes 2 RC (MH-H: fMS Am 1300). 1 See John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney, September 8, 1779. 2 Hewes’ last known letter as a delegate was written to Tench Coxe on September 30, 1779, covering an order repaying an obligation on behalf of Isaac Collins of Edenton. Coxe Papers, PHi. Hewes died in Philadelphia on November 10. JCC, 15:1252; andjohn Fell’s Diary, November 10 — 11, 1779. Marine Committee to James Nicholson Sir September 20th 1779 Having appointed you to command the Frigate Trumbull 1 now at New London in the state of Connecticut we desire that you will immediately repair to that place there to take the command of the said frigate and in your way call upon us at this place for our further Instructions. We are sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The committee’s appointment of Nicholson, the senior captain in the Continental Navy, to command the frigate Trumbull is explained in Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, October 6, 1779. James Forbes to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadelphia Septr 21st 1779 Yours of the 16 Currt I have before me. Mr. Gerard has taken his leave & only waits to see his Sucksessor (who is expected in Town every day) and then Embarks at Chester on Board the Confederacy for France. If I can obtaine the particulars you wish to be informed of, respecting the New Minister, before the post goes off, you shall
