September 21, 1779 519 have it, if not expect it in my next. Our loss of men at Penobscot is not yet known, no doubt it will be considerable, and as to Ships it may be said to be allmost total, as but one escaped most of them were burnt by our own people, I believe the Eastern people are asshamed of that expedition which is the reason we have never yet had a particular account. Inclosed you have a Circular Letter from Con gress to the States, which will fully informe you as to our Emissions &c.' This day Congress goes into a Committe of the whole to con sider of ways & means for supplys to carry on the War, at present they have in view a requissiation on the States for Taxes & Loans to an amount that I am affraid will not be complyd with. I was with a very small Minority on this grate question for stoping the Press, not that I thought the measure rong, but that it was necessary first, that the State should engage to furnish supplys, I shall be very happy to find I was mistaken by the several States furnishing their Quotaes as requested by Congress, which requissian you may expect next week. Your Acco’ of the Emigration, from our frontier Counties are very allarming and the measures pursuing in Virga of disposing of their Lands at this critical time I think should be put a stop to, but I see no inclination in Congress at this time to take it up. I am not disappointed on learning that the Law intended to put a Stop to Ingrosing &c has not had the wisht for effect. The Committe of this place I think has don much hurt, and now are resigning their power into the hands of the Legislature, wheather they will attempt a regulation is uncertaine. I fear they will take off the Embargoe. I ever am, Dear sir, Your afft Friend & Servt, James Forbes RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). 1 See John Jay to the States, September 14, 1779, note 3. Cyrus Griffin to Burgess Ball My Dear Sir Philadelphia, Septem. 21st 79. I have reed, your letter dated on the 4th. No person upon Earth can be more welcome to what little satisfaction I am able to give him in the way of writing now and then. The subscription to Dunlap’s paper I think is 80 dollars by the year; I shall not order that matter untill you again write me for the purpose. I fancy the Enemy will attempt nothing great notwithstanding the arrival of Arbuthnot. I wish we could know with Certainty to what place the Regiments lately embarked from N. York are intended; perhaps the Count D. Estaing may fall in with them, the Count having quitted his former station. I am almost as sanguine as yourself that the present Campaign will finish the Contest; the opposition to Great Britain is very formidable indeed; and yet when so conspicuous a nation begins to fall, perhaps
