520 September 21, 1779 she may go on to the brink of destruction, and of consequence the war may be lengthened a considerable time to come. The resolutions of Congress relative to the Army were but so many Acts of Justice; and I hope the different states will provide half pay exactly conform able to the English establishment. 1 Congress have done and are doing all they can to appreciate the money; yet the states and Individuals can alone apply the most effectual remedy by loaning and taxation. Enclosed you will find a handsome address upon this subject; writ ten by our president; 2 it contains to my Judgment a great deal of sterling sense and the most solid reasoning. I do not absolutely con demn your associations: but perhaps in consequence of them you may want many comfortable private supplies. I shall take notice of what you mention about the adjutants, paymasters, and Clothiers, I thank you exceedingly and General M. 3 for a sight of those papers enclosed to his Brother. 4 They greatly expanded my Ideas upon the subject; our officers write and fight in the same spirit. Your circumstantial account of that affair has given me pleasure tho I feel exceedingly for your situation—and yet w[hen] the public are acquainted with the whole matter as more praise will be given you as the brave and fortunate officer who executed the command. I would take a trip to Camp with the utmost satisfaction; but Smith and Fleming are seting off to Virginia, 5 and there only remains a bare delegation. Compli ments of the Fam[ily] attend you, My dear Sir, Yours affly. C. Griffin RC (CSmH: HM 39002). 1 See John Fell’s Diary, July 27, note; andjohnjay to Washington, August 20, 1779. 2 See John Jay to the States, September 14, note 3. 3 Brig. Gen. john Peter Gabriel Muhlenberg, who commanded the 1st Virginia Brigade to which Ball’s 1st Virginia Regiment was attached. 4 Frederick Muhlenberg, a delegate from Pennsylvania. 5 For the departure of William Fleming and Meriwether Smith from Congress, see Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, August 10; and Smith to the Virginia House of Delegates, November 25, 1779. Samuel Holten’s Diary [September 21-22, 1779] Sepr. 21. Tuesday. I wrote to Mr. Avery & Mrs. Holten (No. 75). 1 The Chevalier de la Luzerne, Minisr. Plena, from the Court of France arrived here from Boston. 22. Wednesday. I made a short visit to the new minisr. & wel comed him here. I dined with the president of Congress. MS (MDaAr). 1 Not found.
