526 September 21, 1779 think & judge in Support, if you can honestly, of that very Congress which has been so “ 2 what shall I call it?” in regard to you. I think the Remarks or Observations in the last Pages of the Pamphlet, now sent for the Exercise of your Genius & Humility, are very good. Brother Dana has now & then appeared to me to dissent from my Ideas of the necessary Powers to be with the Arbiter of Peace & War in Admiralty Concerns. You will oblige me by conversing with him after you have read what I now send. I cannot repeat to you what I have scrawled to S A 3 respecting the State of the Business which concerns the Honor of A Lee for whom you performed a capital Act of Justice on the 11th of February. I have taken up my Pen at a Table, while Congress in Committee of the whole is inventing Ways to get money, after having resolved to stop the press. 4 The Tragedy will soon be over if the States will not instantly supply us with monies for greater Expences than ever were before known for supporting an Army. Having been very ill I find myself hurt by the Addition of private friendly Correspondence to what lays upon me alone of a public Kind just at this Moment of the sailing of Mr. Gerard. By Moment I mean no more or less than 24 uncertain hours. He may go this Afternoon or not till Tomorrow. Don’t you inform the Enemy. It is a Secret that has only been known to every body in this City 8 or 9 Days. Your most affectionate, humb Servt, J.L. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Adams had been chosen Braintree’s delegate to the state constitutional convention that convened in Boston on September 1. He served on the committee of 31 members assigned to draft the constitution; and it was he who wrote most of the first draft of the document, which with minor variations was adopted as the state constitution in 1780. 2 In the margin opposite this passage Lovell drew an “index,” ry to which he keyed the following comment at the foot of the page: “For Explanation of the Blank consult my lovely Correspondent Portia.” 3 Samuel Adams, for whom see the following entry. 4 For a discussion of Congress’ efforts to resolve its continuing fiscal crisis, see John Mathews to Thomas Bee, this date. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir, Sepr 21st 1779 Your Favor of the 9th reached me yesterday with so good an Apology for appearances of Delinquency, that I shall strive to forget that I have sometimes lately thought I had Cause to fret at you on Post Days. I have been very ill as have Multitudes in the City. Our Family in particular has had its full Portion. Mr. Langdon being
