September 21, 1779 527 taken with very fierce Symptoms on Monday, Genl Whipple put off his Journey home intended to have been on that day. Resolves have passed respectg. the main one of the two Questions asked us in Augst, if not in April 1778 and again in Octr with Information that A.L. would not think himself authorized to treat on those Points with Spain without our special Direction. 1 But lo! now, their is an Intention to send the Answer to A.L’s Question to Doctr. F or to somebody to be appointed. So that the 4 to 4 & 4 divided is probably to be a resumed Question. 2 I am prepared to inform new Members and to make the old ones sin with Conviction before their Eyes, if they are bent upon sinning. My opinion is that, if De Vergennes wrote on Octr. 19th 78 3 that he “feared Mr. Lee & those about him”, yet that he pd. so much Regard to the Testimony given by Mr. J. Adams on the 11th of Feby and will be so desirous of confirming his own Assertion made a few days after “that he had none of the Prejudices endeavored to be excited in America”, that he will treat A L with Confidence, and even be anxious to repair the Injury connected with former Diffidence by super rogatory Complai sance in future. 4 If a Slight is to be in this Instance put upon A L, I will proceed in two Peices of Business which I have suspended; one of which you mention in your Letter, 5 and the other I have before hinted to you. I hope that the one you mention is not talked of in your Quarter. For, tho’ I have maintained a Right of Suppression of what is sent thro the Discretion of a private Friend by a public officer, yet I do not want to have a noisy Discussion of the Question. I will attend to what you say about Flour though I think it a desperate Plan to send it from hence in Waggons unless in Cyder Barrels. Perhaps I shall get some on the other Side of Hudson’s River which will save many miles Risque. We are struggling very hard about our money. Gerry will not have a Tooth or Nail left if several whimsical Financiers do not go home soon. He is truly anx ious to have something decisive done, and he labors at it Night & Day. I am pleased with the Circumstances you mentioned in regard to the Conventions. J.A. tells me, in one of his Letters from France, that he is so far profited by some of our Proceedings as to see that he was what is called, in Tabernacle Language, a nothing-Creature. 6 His Vanity it seems is not incorrigible. With that Remark I quit the delicate Subject. Adieu. J [L] RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 In an August 31, 1778, letter Arthur Lee had asked the Committee for Foreign Affairs for instructions on providing the Spanish navy with masts and ceding Florida to Spain, “should it be conquered.” Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:699. And in a resolve of September 17, 1779, Congress conceded that should Spain conquer Florida, “these United States will guaranty the same to his Catholick Majesty: Provided always, that the United States shall enjoy the free navigation of the river Mississippi.” See ]CC, 15:1084; and Henry Laurens’ Notes, September 9—17, 1779.
