September 21, 1779 529 2 That is, William Henry Drayton, who had died on September 4. 3 That is, James Duane and Gouverneur Morris were absent from Congress. 4 That is, John Fell and Woodbury Langdon were ill, but John Jay was still in the president’s chair. 5 The “Farmer” and “Fidler” were certainly John Dickinson and Meriwether Smith; the “Boatswain” was probably William Carmichael or William Paca. 6 See Lovell to Arthur Lee, September 17, 1779, note 8. 7 Samuel Adams. 8 That is, Samuel and John Adams, who were members of the Massachusetts consti tutional convention. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen September 21. 1779 We shall very shortly want the Deane, Boston & Queen of France for a very important service for which reason we request that you will use every endeavour to have those Vessels fitted for the Sea with all possible dispatch and hold them ready to proceed Agreeable to the Orders which we shall transmit to you. 1 We are Gentn, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, September 22, 1779. John Mathews to Thomas Bee Dear Sir. Philadelphia Septr. 21. 1779. I inclosed you a few days ago, An Address of Congress to the several States. 1 It is a matter of the last importance, & to reconcile it to the minds of men, will require deep reflection. When I left Con gress last year a System of Finance was then nearly compleated; & was afterwards finally so. But soon after, those who did not like it, took the opportunity of moving a reconsideration of the whole & succeeded, which set the whole plan afloat again, & before anything effectual could be done upon it Congress were apprised of the medi ation of Spain, to bring about a peace, between Britain, France, & America. This necessarily led them into a discussion of points which were proper to be insisted on as the Ultimata for peace. This single object (I may justly say so, for no other business of importance was done) engrosed the attention of Congress, from the ninth day of February, untill sometime about the beginning of August. 2 To find things in this situation, no less chagrined, than astonished me, which produced from me some Phillippics not very pleasing, & which I really believe in the end had a good effect. You are doubtless no Stranger to the grand obstacle to the completion of this business, to Wit, the fisheries. The New England States had got some others to join
