530 September 21, 1779 them in a determination to make no peace, unless Britain acknowl edged their right to an equal participation of the fisheries on the American coast. This Subject was twisted, & tortured, in all the variety of modes human genius could invent to gain & to oppose, this important object. I took the opportunity when this point was warmly agitated, to deliver my sentiments fully & freely on it. I had taken pains to inform myself of the progress & the state of the business, and had well considered the importance, & consequence, of the claim, & was prepared to decide on it. I was a fresh hand. No man knew my sentiments, & [every one] listened with avidity to hear on which [side I should d]etermine. It was [. . .] 3 and grievously dis tressed country, for reasons too well known to be herein mentioned. Here the matter rested, the question was taken, & finally decided on. This relation looks too much like ostentation, to be communicated elsewhere, I mean it only for yourself, as I know your indulgent friendship will induce you to make me all the necessary allowances. This matter then being settled, the State of our money called loudly on us to pay a serious attention to it. But the precious days, & months that had been spent on the last mentioned business, were never to be recalled, with this wanton waste of time, was our money as wantonly sported with, untill it was at last reduced to its last stage of annihila tion, when the alarm bells from all quarters din’d so incessantly in our ears, that we were at last roused by its call. What was to be done? resounded from all parts of the house. Stop the press was replyed. This expedient was taken hold of & after a mature consideration was resolved on. No alternative remained, one more emission must have struck it dead. The nominal depreciation was thirty for one, This made the value of a dollar no more than three pence but in fact it was no better than One penny. Thus by Congress spending Six months on a business, which at a very large allowance, ought not have taken more than one, & for this object neglecting all others, we are reduced to this horrid dilemma. Whilst lounging in their seats, they could by a single vote, call forth Million after million from the press. They gave themselves but little concern, what was to be the event, untill ruin stared us in the face. Then by inspiration every member was at once to rise up an able financier. Thus when the Patient is gorged almost to suffocation, The faculty are called to a consultation. One sett prescribes lenitives to make him disgorge by degrees, as too violent an operation at first would probably throw him into convultions. Another is for craming him still more, by which means it will make him thrust it out at the other end. The third is for giving him a strong emetic, & oblige him to cast up the whole at once for as the disease is desperate it must require a desper ate remedy. I am among the latter class of Quacks (I think like Doctor Rock’s, our motto should [. . . ] Quack, Quack). Let us [. . .1st. . . ] 4 experiments will never do, for it never produced above a tenth part of what was necessary for the annual supplies. 2d. Stuffing one
