September 25, 1779 541 every practicable place, we have on both parties the choice of difficul ties held out to us, the wisdom of both would appear in advances toward a Treaty for Peace; we are heartily disposed to close the War, but by no means, despondent. The depreciation of our Paper Money is a heavy weight on these States, Congress have done & are doing every thing in their power for recovering its Credit, nothing but tbe virtuous exertions of our Constituents can accomplish a radical Cure. These exertions I fear will not appear until the People are animated by a convulsion. Every Man seems to be dead in trespasses & Sins against the Public Interest, & without consciousness of the truth, against his own. With my best wishes for your health & success I have the honor to be, Dear Sir, Your obedient & most humble servant. Henry Laurens RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 Lincoln’s letters of July 20 and 27 are in the general’s letterbooks, Lincoln Papers, MHi. 2 Lincoln’s letter of the 27th had been delivered to Laurens by Richard Mercer, purveyor of the hospitals in the southern department, whom the general had sent to the Board of War “for a number of articles necessary in this department which cannot be supplied elsewhere.” 3 Dr. David Oliphant, who had been director general of hospitals in South Carolina since June 1776, had recently complained that he had been ordered by Dr. William Shippen, Jr., to submit regular reports to him as director general of the medical department. This he refused to do, stating that he was responsible only to the Conti nental commander of the southern department and to Congress, and that his appoint ment was senior to Shippen’s. He had, he explained, been operating in this manner nearly three years, to the satisfaction of every commander of the southern department. He had submitted the plan of his establishment to Congress shortly after his appointment, and although it had never been acted upon, he presumed that the arrangement was agreeable, for he could not imagine that he would have been permit ted by Congress to operate in error for so long. Laurens’ surmise that Congress’ determination would be “satisfactory to the Doctor” was correct, although a compromise congressional resolution acceding to Oliphant’s demand—“to make monthly returns to the Medical Committee” rather than to Shippen—was not adopted until February 25, 1780. See JCC, 14:991; 16:204; PCC, item 72, fols. 510—19; and Samuel Huntington to David Oliphant, February 26, 1780. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Septr. 25th 1779 Inclosed is an Extract of a letter from Mr. Fox which is Confirmed by Similar Accounts Contained in a letter from Genl Washington. 1 Captn Nile’s papers & accoumpts have been laid before Congress & are referred to the board of Treasury who have not yet reported thereon. 2 Proper attention will be paid to your Excellencys wishes respecting your Son & nothing will be wanting on our part to fur ther them in Case an appointment of the kind Should be Judged
