542 September 25, 1779 necessary. The New Minister of France the Chavilier de la Luzern arrived here last Thursday but has not yet been formally anounced to Congress. Mr. Gerard will Sail Soon in the Confederacy for France. Our foreign affairs are brot. nearly to a Close. The great business of Finance grows daily more & more pressing & Important. Some resolutions ascertaining the Sum that will be necessary to Supply the Treasury—assigning to the States their respec tive quotas, and fixing the time of payment, are under Consider ation & will Soon be passed upon and transmitted to the States. There is not hard money in the Treasury otherways your Applica tion would have been Complied with. No Journals have Come out Since our last. We Send herewith a Code of the Jersey laws presented to us by that State through their Delegates for the purpose of opening a Communication of laws with the different States, also a pamphlet on finance wrote by Mr. Webster. Septr. 26th. Last evening an Express arrived here from Charlestown South Carolina 3 & With dispatches Containing the most agreeable advices of the arrival of the Count De Estange off the Savannah the 5th Inst. With his fleet and a considerable land force—that he immediately Sent an officer to the Governor of South Carolina & to General Lincoln to Consult & Settle the Mode of attacking the Enemy—which being Concluded on was Sent back to the Count— and the Attack on Savannah was to be made on the 9th. This affords the most flattering prospects respecting Georgia & our affairs in that Country. The assistance of the Count with his fleet will be of most essential Service to us this Campaign provided he Shall be at liberty to Cooperate with us through the Season—which we have reason to hope. 4 The large Embarkation of 8,000 Troops making at Newyork for the southward will probably be Stoped. Capt Taylor a privateer from this Port has taken a transport Ship with 350 Hessians on board Supposed to be a part of the detachment which Saild Some time past from Newyork & were returning on account of bad weather. A woman was taken up at Reading in this State going from the Convention Troops in Virginia to New York had with her plans & Charts of James river & the adjacent Country. We have the Honor to be with the highest esteem & respect your Excellencys Most obedt & most humble Servants, Sami. Huntington Jesse Root RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Root, and signed by Root and Huntington. 1 Edward Fox’s September 24, 1779, letter tojames Forbes, which reported a large embarkation of British troops from New York and was read in Congress on Septem ber 25, is in PCC, item 78, 9:287 — 90. JCC, 15:1103. For General Washington’s
