September 25, 1779 543 September 19 letter to Congress containing “Similar Accounts,” see PCC, item 152, 8:33—36; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:311 — 13. 2 Capt. Robert Niles’ claim for payment for carrying dispatches to France in May, 1778, was read in Congress on September 20 and referred to the Board of Treasury. JCC, 15:1087. 3 See Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Huntington, September 24, 1779, note. 4 Extracts of two other delegate letters containing this intelligence were also printed in the October 5 issue of the Connecticut Courant and the Weekly Intelligencer at Hartford with the following captions. “Extract of a letter from a member of Congress to a gentleman in this town, dated Philadelphia, Sept. 26, 1779. “I congratulate you on the arrival of the Count D’Estaing with his fleet and a considerable land force off Charlestown, the 5th instant: He has sent to Gen. Lincoln and the Council of South-Carolina to consult on the mode of attacking the enemy, which was concluded and sent back to the Count. The attack was proposed to be made on the 9th instant. This intelligence comes by express from Charlestown, who left there the 9th instant; there is the highest reason to believe that Georgia and the British forces in those parts are before this in our possession.” “Extract of another letter from a member of congress to a gentleman in the State of New-York dated September 26. “I have only time to communicate the joyful news, that by express arrived last night in 15 days from Charlestown South Carolina, with letters from Count D’Estaing, who arrived with his fleet of 21 ships of the line, with frigates, &c. the 5th instant off Georgia. The State must exert themselves to fill their magazines with flour, as it will be wanted for the fleet and our army; The farmers should thresh out their grain immediately .” John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia, September 25th 1779 I have the pleasure to inform You, that the President of Congress, this Moment call’d upon Me, to inform Me, that he has receiv’d Advice, that the Count D’Estaing with a formidable Fleet has arriv’d at Georgia, 1 with a very considerable Body of Troops on Board. One of the principal Officers landed in South Carolina, held a Council of War there, in which the Plan of Operations was settled, and then return’d to the Count—and, if no Blunder is committed, the Event will be what we wish it to be. The Enemy is fortifying New York incessantly. They have done a great Deal, but still are not contented. Our Intelligence is well authenticated, that they meditated an Embarkation of several thou sand Men. The Count’s arrival in all probability will put a stop to it, unless they slip out to the West Indies, while he is ap—proach—ing— which is not unlikely. General Sullivan has beat the collected Force of the Enemy, of which too formal an Account is published—tho, the Consequences are said by such as understand Indian Affairs, to be of Importance to the peace of our Frontiers. Mr. Gerard has taken Leave of Congress, & is expected to sail every Day in the Frigate, Confederacy. We have dismist him with as
