September 25, 1779 549 You will find the Recitals and particular Resolutions numbered in the Margin of the Copy herewith enclosed, from 1 to 13, 4 I shall trouble you with a few explanatory Remarks on each of them— under Heads numbered in like Manner. 1 & 2. These Recitals were inserted to shew the Reason why Congress now proceed without the Report of the Committee, after having resolved to postpone the further Consideration of the Sub ject till their Report should be made. 3. This Recital jutifies the Facts set forth in your Representations, and in Case an appeal to the public shd become necessary, may be used with advantage to New York. 4. This Recital destroys the Doctrine that the union (independent of the Articles of Confederation) had no other object than Security against foreign Invasions. 5. This recital is calculated to impress the People with an opinion of the Reasonableness & Policy of the Requisition or Recommenda tion which follows, and therefore will the more readily induce these States to adopt the Measures recommended to them. 6. You may enquire for what Reasons I consented to this Recital, as it puts Massachusetts & New Hampshire on a Footing with New York whereas I well knew that New York alone had a Right to claim Jurisdiction over Vermont. My Reasons were these—Vermont extends over Connecticut River into the acknowledged Jurisdiction of New Hampshire—as to Massachusetts, the Recital admits only her Claim, not her Title—and it is as Impossible to deny the Exis tence of Claims when made as it is to prevent them. Their Delegates pointedly asserted & insisted on the Claim of Massachusetts, and it appeared to me expedient to provide for a speedy Determination of all Claims against us, however ill founded. You may further ask why Vermont was Made a Party? The Reason is this that by being allowed a Hearing the Candor and Moderation of Congress may be rescued from Aspersions, and that these People after having been fully heard may have nothing to say or complain of in Case the Decision of Congress be agt them—of which I have no Doubt. 7. It is true that by this Resolution the Merits of former settle ments with these States will be again the Subject of Inquiry, Discussion, and Decision—and therefore it may at first Sight appear improper—but these Settlements will still remain strong Evidence of our Rights however objectionable they may be represented to be by those States. Nor will Congress be easily prevailed upon to annul them, because in that Case all their Boundaries would be afloat. Besides in my Opinion it is much better for New York to gain a permanent peace with their neighbours by submitting to these Inconveniences, than by an impol[it]ic Adherence to Strict Rights, and a Rigid Observance of the Dictates of Dignity & Pride remain exposed to perpetual Dissensions and Encroachmt. Peace and estab-
