September 25, 1779 551 hend that this Matter was in a more positive manner confided to me than to my Colleagues, tho some of them considered it in that Light. The Commission vested me with no further Powers than what any other of your Delegates possessed nor was any Matter given more particularly in Charge to me than to the others by the Legislature. Their late Instructions however speake a different Language. I am satisfied to be viewed in that Light, that is to be the responsible Man, & provided the Measures I adopt are not thwarted I am confident that I shall be able to bring all these Matters to a happy Conclusion. I hope however that this will not be considered as a Hint for my being continued in the Delegation. I assure you nothing but an adherence to the Resolutions & Principles of action I adopted and professed at the Commencement of the War, would induce me to remain here at the Expense of Health as well as property, for tho I shall always be ready to serve my Country when called upon, I shall always be happy to find it consistent with my Duty to remain a private Citizen. I am Sir, Your Most Obedient Servant, John Jay P.S. I forgot to mention that Mr Phelps has been enoculated, & therefore could not be the Bearer of the Dispatches. 5 Be pleased to advise to this Distinction between Laws & Resolutions, and that the former are preferable in the general Estimation. I have very often been asked why our Legislature passed Resolutions rather than Acts for quieting Possessions in the Grants. Some suspected there was Finesse in it. ENCLOSURE. In Congress 24th Septr 1779. 1 Whereas on the first Day of June last Congress by a certain Resolution, reciting that “Whereas divers applications had been made to Congress on the part of the State of New York and of the State of New Hampshire relative to Disturbances, & animosities among Inhabitants of a certain District known by the name of “the New Hampshire Grants” praying their Interference for quieting thereof did resolve “that a Committee be appointed to repair to the New Hampshire Grants & enquire into the reason why they refuse to continue Citizens of the respective States which heretofore exer cised Jurisdiction over the said District; for that as Congress are in duty bound on the one hand to preserve inviolate the Rights of the several States, so on the other they will always be careful to provide that the Justice due to the States, does not interfere with the Justice which may be due to Individuals. “That the said Committee confer with the said Inhabitants, & that they take every prudent measure to promote an amicable Set-
