564 September 27, 1779 could hear such sentiments & forbear laughing inwardly—finding me to be clear in his opinion that on the present occasion we ought not to appoint a Member, he earnestly requested me to think of a proper Character out of doors, after some hours reflection I named to him Mr. John Adams as a Gentleman in every respect well qualified, against whom there could be no exception & to whom these States were much indebted—there rested the matter, until the proposed Resolution & its proposed amendment were ousted by Yeas & Nays. When the Ballots were about to be taken, my Colleague declared for Mr. Jay, I expostulated with him on what had passed between us; observed, that among other motives, I had nominated Mr. Adams on his own principles & candidly & honestly declared to him such exceptions against Mr. Jay as neither himself nor any Man could remove. He nevertheless persisted & South Carolina was deprived of a Vote. I explained to Congress in terms nearly as above written the ground of our division as an apology for my own conduct. I think no honest Man will censure me, nor would I have it under stood that I mean to censure Mr. Mathews, we are perfectly good friends & I believe him to be a very honest Man. I am also persuaded he had not been let into the secret of his self-denying motion, but this must be reserved as a subject for a future moments discussion. 1 These things I say to you & to my good friend Gervais, & to no body else, unless you shall find it necessary, which I hope will never happen. Mr. Solikifer has just informed me, that Sir Charles Hardy’s Cruize had been made for reconnoitering & scouring the British Channel, finding it clear, he had returned into Port & immediately after, a fleet of upwards of forty Sail of Merchant Men, probably under some small convoy sailed from Spithead or some port in England, these were more lucky than Sir Charles, they fell in with the french or perhaps the combined Fleets, & were every skin of them con ducted into Brest—this, Mr Solikoffer says he read in a Letter from Bourdeaux 42 days old & he is gone to look for the Letter, if it comes in proper time you will receive an extract. When I writ to Mr. Gervais yesterday 2 I held my self confined to a moment & said I should not write to you, but a violent rain & other circumstances I suppose were impediments to Mr. Down’s depar ture earlier than this Morning. You will now be so good as to present my Love to my friend & communicate these contents. I learn your black Air Castle is blown up, 3 with contemptuous huzzas—a Man of your reading & of your Philosophy will require no consolatory rea sonings for reconciling him to disappointment. I pray God to bless & protect you. Henry Laurens. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 34). 1 At this point in the manuscript Laurens inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following note written on a separate sheet. “This Morning Monday the 27th September according to my imaginary foresight
