566 September 27, 1779 not agree. The mover of the motion above not being likely to consent with bis Colleague to carry it into effect, The baloting was postponed. 7 It had been frequently pressed on the members to order some Resolves now on the Table, and but very lately passed (respectg. points on which the temper of Spain towards us greatly depends) to be forwarded to the Commissioner at that Court, as answers to the Questions which he hinted to us in 6 days after the Treaties with France, again on the 2d of Apr., again plainly & urgently for our Answr. on Augst. 27 again more urgently on Oct 19 again on Deer. 5th &c. &c. 8 A cut and dried Commission such as must pass hereaf ter was produced, moved for & seconded out of order. A motion was then made & seconded for chusing a Minister plenipotentiary to do exactly what a Commissioner is now fully authorised to do; as much so, exactly, as were the 3 at the Court of France. The Pretence for this was the accepted 2d Paragraph of a Report—vid Apr 15 th that Ministers plenipotentiary were only necessary at Versailles & Madrid. 9 The Spirit and Intent of which Paragraph lay in the word only and not in a technical use of Ministers as setled by France and us on the Arrival of Mr. Gerard. Some good and notyowng Men, on this question, saw not the Trap under the Chaff. Who could deny that we have assented to additional parade & expence in a Minister above a Commissioner? Who could deny that two Persons would be in pay, for a time, at once, to do the same business? Who could deny that A. Lee’s compleat Vindications were on the Table of Congress? This last Matter and all characterising was said to be untimely, as much as in a question about creating a Quarter Master General when we had a Quarter Master; for that A Lee stood as fair for nomination to the new Commission as any Man else, and then we should be allowed full Liberty to speak to Character. A Majority can thus kill but it requires seven to make alive. But seven thus killed. For, Mr. Laurens tho’ he spoke against the Question voted for it, and then nominated A Lee. This last act of his in such a desperate case does not make up for depriving a much injured man of the advantage of showing that he was artfully knocked down by six upon a presumption that seven could not be found to assist in recovering him from the Violence of the Blow. 10 Mr. J. Adams was also nominated for Spain by Mr. Paca, Mr. J Jay by Mr. Mercer of Virga. This Accommodation Scheme had been proposed in Whispers early in the Morning, to provide places for the two nominated the day before. One to have a Post of the highest honor, and the other to take the Post of a Man murdered on purpose to make Room. 11 Are not these doings a compleat Appendix to the Report of the Comtee of 13 and the proceedings thereon months ago? Look at the Names! Here I must join in an old Exclamation of F. L. L. 12 when he had seen a whole day wasted. “What d d dirty Work is this of Politicks”! I will now state the votes, Remarking, that, being Sunday, Mr. McKean was able to attend; but yr. sworn Friend the Farmer 13 will
