September 28, 1779 573 1 In a letter of this date to Jose de Galvez, Spanish agent Juan de Miralles reported an aspect of the election not recorded by Fell or in the journals: “Henry Laurens, a former President, received six votes on the first ballot, but withdrew his name. Mr. Huntingdon was elected on the second ballot.” Audiencia de Santo Domingo, Legajo 2598, Archivo General de Indias, Seville (Aileen Moore Topping translation, Manuscript Division, DLC). In a letter of the previous day, Miralles had speculated that Laurens would indeed withdraw if nominated. See James Lovell to John Adams, September 27, note 6. The source of Miralles’ information is not mentioned in his correspondence. Samuel Holten’s Diary [September 28, 1779] 28. Tuesday. I wrote to Capt. Shillaber, The President of the Council, & Spkr. of the house, to Dr. Cooper & Mrs. Holten (no. 77). 1 Mr. Huntington chose P. of Congress. MS (MDaAr). 1 Only Holten’s letter to the Massachusetts Council, the following entry, has been found. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 28th, 1779 The author of the inclosed pamphlet, left two of them, with the Delegates of Massa. Bay, with a desire that they might be forwarded to their Court; Therefore, I do myself the Honor to inclose one for the Honble. Board, and the other, I have inclosed to the Speaker of the House. The new Minisr. plenipotentiary, with his suit, arrived here on Tuesday last; I have had the honor of paying him my respects & congratulating him on his safe arrival; and he particularly noticed the kind treatment he had received in Masstts. I consider it as a favorable circumstance, that his first arrival was in our state. Mr. Gerard, has taken formal leave; & I expect the Chevalier De La Luzerne the new Minisr. will soon be admitted to a public audi ence with Congress. Last Saturday evening an express came in here, with the agree able intelligence, that the Count De Estaign arrived off Georgia the 5th instant. I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect, sir, your most obedient servt. S. Holten P. S. The disputes between the state of New-York & the people stiling themselves the state of Vermont, have arisen to such a height that Congress have been obliged to interpose (to prevent a civil
