584 September 28, 1779 join the french fleet or to such other place as may be directed by General Washington or the Count DEstaing. You are also to provide and engage a Sufficient Number of Skilful Pilots for the said fleet for Newfound Land, Hallifax, Penobscot, & Rhode Island, who are to go on board your ships. You are to Observe that General Washing ton and the Count are to Co-Operate with each Other, 1 and there fore Congress have thought proper that the Captains of the Conti nental ships & armed Vessels should be Subject to their orders. We are Gentn, Yr. hble servts. (Signed) Jno Mathews Chairman Copy Tr (DLC: Washington Papers) LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Commit tee Letter Book). 1 Mathews also sent Washington a copy of this letter to the board under cover of a brief letter of transmittal of this date. Washington Papers, DLC; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:119. On October 6, Washington wrote the Marine Committee that he was “happy in the correspondence of your ideas with mine upon the subject of it [i.e., the proposal to redeploy three frigates to South Carolina]. I wrote Congress on the 4th Instant, and suggested to them the eligibility of the plan which you had already adopted.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:420—21. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia, Sepr. 28th. 1779. We reed. Your Excellency’s Favour of the 3d. Instant, enclosing a certifficate of the Valuation of the black Regiment. 1 As Congress have agreed to stop the Press, and all Supplies must now come from the States, Your Excellency will perceive that there can be no great Prospect of procuring the Ballance of Our Account—However at any Rate the Charge of the black Regiment may as well stand as it now does Blank, for some time, as we might be very happy to prove the Ballance exclusive of that Charge. There will very probably be some Charges that will not finally be allowed. We will do all in our Power to procure an Order on the Treasury at Rhode Island for a Sum amounting as near as may be to our Ballance; But we are so doubtful of Our Success herein, that we would wish the State not to build much upon it. Great will be the Calls for Money—And great must be the Exertions of the States. The Time is come when we are called upon to fulfill the Engagements which every One most chearfully made at the Begining of this Contest. We must part with some Share of our Interest, to save the Rest. And if we are obliged to sell some Part of our Estates, to secure the noblest Cause on Earth who is the Man that will shrink from the TryaL Our Grand Exer tion in freely giving and lending, will under the kindness of Heaven, put our Affairs in a State of Security beyond the Reach of Our Enemies to injure.
