September 29, 1779 587 Edmd Jennings, Mr Laboushire, 3 & Mr. Joshua Johnson first Ballot 13 6 second do 4 7 Mr. Johnson was Ellected. A Report was brought in from the Committee, to allow the Minis ter Plenoptentiary £3000 Sterlg. Per annum and the Secretary £1000 Sterlg Per Do. Postponed. MS (DLC). 1 That is, the Committee of Commerce. 2 For the resolutions authorizing the appointment of this commissioner, see Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee, August 10, 1779, note 4. 3 Possibly one of the Labouchere family connected with the banking house of Hope & Company in Amsterdam. William Fitzhugh to Benjamin Harrison Dear Sir Philadelphia. Septr. 29. 1779. When the Assembly appointed me a Delegate to Congress, 1 it afforded me that Kind of Pleasure only, which every Man must natu rally feel, who is honour’d with the Confidence of his Country. I accepted of the appointment with reluctance, because I thought, at that critical Moment, it was necessary to commit a Trust of so much Importance, to Men of the most distinguish’d Abilities, & Integrity amongst us; but finding our first Characters unwilling to engage in publick Business, I determined at every Hazard to contribute my Mite, towards compleating the great Object in View, which we have hitherto supported with so much Firmness, & which I hope we shall in the End obtain. The contracted Sphere in which I have moved, makes it impossi ble that I shou’d render any essential Service at this particular Time. I have been long enough in Congress to know, that it requires Men of extensive Knowledge, as well as of unshaken Fidelity to conduct the great Business of America with Propriety. I must therefore beg of you Sir to offer my sincere thanks to the Assembly for the good Opinion they were pleased to entertain of me, and to desire them to appoint some one to succeed me for the ensueing Year, which I am informd commences early in November. One principal Motive that induces me to make this Request, I have already given, I may also add that I have for some Time past been in a declining State of Health, 8c as close an Attention to Business as I must necessarily subject myself to, is more than a weak Constitution can bear. I am Dear Sir, Your mo. Ob. Ser. William Fitzhugh
