588 September 29, 1779 RC (CSmH: Brock Collection). 1 The Virginia delegates’ credentials for their June 18 election had been presented by his colleague Edmund Randolph on July 22, but Fitzhugh did not take his seat in Congress until September 13.JCC, 14:861—62, 15:1048. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear Mr Adams Philadelphia Sepr 29. 1779 It is with the greatest pleasure, that I inform You of the late Arrangement of our foreign affairs, in which You are appointed to negotiate the Treaties with G Britain & our Friend Mr Dana to be your Secretary. Mr Jay is to negotiate with Spain, Mr Carmichael to be his Secretary, & Colo John Laurens, Son of the late president Laurens, to be Secretary to Doctor Franklin. I shall not be able at this Time to give You a History of the proceedings of Congress, relative to their foreign Affairs; the Embarrassments, Difficulties & Delays attending this Business, in Consequence of the Disputes between the late Commissioners, have exceeded every thing of the Kind, which I have before met with: So far have some of their Friends in Congress been influenced by Attach ments & prejudices, as to render it impossible to preserve their Friendship & Confidence, & at the same Time to act with becoming Freedom & Independence. I flatter myself that You will not hesitate a Moment, at accepting the highest office of Honor & Trust, under the United States, when elected thereto by the Voice of eleven States. Indeed it may be called unanimous, as there was only a single Vote for Doctor Franklin, who was not in Nomination, & it was said to have been put in by Delaware, at that Time represented by your old Friend Mr D n. 1 Great Exertions were made to send You to Spain, & Mr Jay on the other Embassy, but the Opposition of your Friends produced from the Gentlemen in Favour of Mr Jay, a proposal of Accomodation, in Consequence whereof he was appointed by eight States. The Appoint ment of Mr Dana is in my humble opinion of the next Importance, & should he accept it, he may stand Candidate for the next Vacancy in Europe. It is almost Time to acknowledge the Receipt of your esteemed Favours of the 27th of Novr 1778, & of the 10th & 11th Instant. 2 The first is of so early a Date as not to require an Answer, & a prudent Use shall be made of the last. Agreable to your Request in the other, I transmit by the Bearer Mr the Journals of Congress to the present Time, as far as they are printed, those for 1778 are now in the press. With Respect to the Circumstances of your first Appointment, It was in Consequence of a Nomination which I ventured to make, after having endeavoured to discover your Sentiments, on the Subject. I remember You was more reserved
