594 September 29, 1779 provide for a Representation of your State here the better—God grant it may be an able one. The Resolutions respecting Vermont if prudently managed will establish perpetual Harmony between you and your Neighbours. I am confident of this. Temper & firmness will be indispensable. Let us not differ with them about Triffles, or by unnecessary Heats retard a Settlement satisfactory to all. It gives me Pleasure to assure you that the State stands high in the Esteem of the Confederacy, and a Continuation of the same means by which it was obtain’d will be necessary to perpetuate it. At this Season it is particularly expedient that your Delegates should be wise and prudent Men. You will then find it easy to settle your Disputes advantageously. I sincerely wish that the Chancellor and Mr. Hobart may be sent here, 1 as you know their Characters you will be at no Loss to perceive my Reasons for it. Mr. Duane will be a useful Man, but in my Opin ion his Attention should be confined to general Objects, and ought by no means to interfere respecting the Vermont & New England Business, further that as a private, out of Door Counsellor. Morris will be serviceable 2 —His Abilities enable him to promote every Cause he may advocate, but if I may be permitted to advise he should restrain himself from taking any Part or pushing any Measure respect ing your Disputes, without previous Concert with Livingston and Hobart. If this Plan be persued I have not the least Doubt of Success. I found it the most delicate affair to manage I ever was concerned in, and whoever it may be committed to, will soon concur with me in this Sentiment. It is of such great Importance to the State that no means however inconvenient, ought to be omitted to bring it to a happy Termination. Some members of Congress have just come in to do Business with me. Coll. Livingston will set off directly. I must, therefore, reluctantly conclude this Letter with assuring you that I am, your obt. & affect. Serv’t, John Jay. RC (N: Clinton Papers). Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:288—91. RC damaged; missing material supplied from Tr. 1 That is, Chancellor Robert R. Livingston and John Sloss Hobart (1738—1805), a justice of the New York supreme court. DAB. 2 That is, Gouverneur Morris. John Jay to Robert R. Livingston and Gouverneur Morris My Dear friends Philadelphia 29 Septr. 1779. 1 I address this Letter to you both because I have not Time by this opportunity to write to each separately. In a few Days I shall write you both particularly. Mr. Gerard being about to sail happily pre vailed upon Congress to proceed rapidly & unanimously in arrang-
