596 September 29, 1779 both and a Promise to submit to our Decision. Jay pushed that because two Parties had consented to leave their whole dispute to us, we shd. oblidge others to do the same. 1 But I hope our State will never let Congress be a Tribunal to decide Bounds & Right of Soil. I think we have got so far without committing Enormities, in that Case. But can I say so in Regard to Arthur Lee? However, I persude myself, his Honor is safe, and that he will spare a certain Body of Men as much as he possibly can and not be highly unjust to himself. You will hear much about acting in Concert with Count D’Estaing, and driving the Enemy from New York. But, I wish you would promote a Forwardness for aiding in a Blow to destroy Halifax. I tell you in Confidence that I more than suspect it to be his main Object, as the Supplies from thence are the only means of Byrons being in any Posture for operating. The Nova Scotians want only arms & amunition to enable them to do their own fighting and purchase Independence. I will get the Name if possible of the Scoundrel who wrote the french Letter. I have been very ill; but am mending. But this sitting up till Morning will soon throw me aback unless I quit the Practice. I have much to say but my Head is not clear. I must go to my Pillow. Affectionately, Yr humb Sert. JL RC (NN: Adams Papers). 'See John Jay to Thomas Chittenden and to George Clinton, September 25, 1779. James Lovell to Arthur Lee Sir [September 29? 1779] 1 I have lately heard what it is interesting to you to be apprised of. It is said that Congress, having determined to appoint a Minister Plenipotentiary in Lieu of a Commissioner for the Court of Spain, did on the 27 of Sepr. appoint J Jay who was in Nomination with you & one other: That on the 29th Mr. Carmichael was chosen his Secretary: That Silas Deane has been arrested in yr. Name. A Friend to your merits. RC (MH-H: Lee Family Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. ’This undated letter was probably written on or soon after September 29, the day William Carmichael was selected as John Jay’s secretary, a decision reported in this brief letter.
