September 30, 1779 597 Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett No. 9. Wednesday morng 29th Sept 79. 1 Mr. Peabodys Compliments to the Hon[orab]le Mr. Bartlett, & begs leave to inclose a paper, & Some Copies of Genl Burgoynes Private letters—the Post did not arive here till ten Clock last eveng is now Going off. Mr. Peabody is happy to inform that, Count D Estaing is Now on our Coast with 21 Ships of the line, 6 frigates & 6,000 land forces, to Cooperate with the American Arms the remainder of this Campaign, at the direction of the french minister here—in Conse quence of which the necessary orders are Sent to Genl Washington with ample Powers. The Strength of the french fleet & army is to be kept a Secret as well as the intended opperations. The States will be addressed to lend Such aid as the Genl, may request. 180 Hessian prisone[r]s arived at Philad—the 26. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). In Peabody’s hand, though not signed. 1 This day Peabody also wrote a letter to William Whipple, which has not been found, but in his October 18 reply Whipple wrote: “Your favor of the 29th Sepr came to hand before I left Boston, but time not permitting me to acknowledge the receipt of it per last post, I take the earliest opportunity after my arrival here to thank you for the information it contains.” “Surprising events it seems have taken place since I left you—the causes you leave me to conjecture ’tho you flatter me with hopes of something more particular hereafter. I hope my curiosity will be satisfied per next post for I assure you it is much raised, were it not for the trouble it wod give you I should ask for a particular History of a few days subsequent to the 25th Sepr. I am puzled to find out from whom the 8 Votes could come, I could not possibly suppose so large a proportion could be lost to every sense of Honour and justice, however, I am sure the Character that the Malevolence of some People are endeavoring to destroy will rise superior to all his Enemies. The other Vote is not so much to be wondered at, for in days not more Corrupt than the present even the presence of the Deity did not keep a greater proportion than Eleven out of twelve in the paths of Virtue, but is there not some mischief still lurking behind the curtain. Why should one person be called Minister Plenipotentiary, and the other whose Business is of much greater importance have the title of Commissioner only? I must defer saying any thing more to you on this subject till I have a more particular accot. of things.” Roberts Collection, PHC. John Fell’s Diary Thursday Sepr. 30th. 1779 Commercial Committee. Congress. A number of Letters, Memori als &c were read. PM Marine Committee. Capt Read 1 appointed to the Frigate Bourbon. MS (DLC). 1 Capt. Thomas Read, who had previously commanded the Continental frigate Washington and the brigantine Baltimore.
