598 September 30, 1779 Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philada 30th Septr 1779 You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 29th instant with Copys of the letters refferred to in it reccomending to the Executive of Virginia the stationing of and safe keeping of the Convention Troops in case of invasion and to advise the Board of War of their proceedings. 1 I have the honour to be with great respect, your Exy’s most obt & hble Servt, S. H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 On September 27 the Board of War delivered to Congress two letters from New Jersey, by Maj. Elisha Walton and Lt. Jacob Wolcott, reporting the recent arrival of British reinforcements at New York and prospects for a new southern expedition. These were immediately referred to the Virginia delegates, who were ordered to “confer with the Board of War, and report thereon with all convenient dispatch,” which they did on the 29th. The delegates’ report, in the hand of Cyrus Griffin and written on the verso of the Board of War’s September 27 letter to Congress, reads: “The delegates of Virginia to whom were refered some Intelligence from the Board of War of September 27th beg leave to report. “That should an expedition take place by the Enemy of eight Thousand Men to the State of Virginia they are of opinion the Convention Troops might be rescued with great facility unless some expeditious and effectual measures are taken to prevent it. Therefore resolved that the Governor and council of Virginia be authorised and requested to seperate the said Troops of the Convention if necessary, or to do what ever shall appear to the executive best calculated for the safety of those Troops and the public service.” The enclosed September 29 resolve simply endorsed Griffin’s recommendations and ordered copies of Walton’s and Wolcott’s letters transmitted to the Virginia governor. Although Secretary Thomson did not record the matter in the journals, Congress also received this day another, related letter from the Board of War, one calling attention to the concern of Col. Theodorick Bland, commander of the Conven tion Army guard at Charlottesville, to the vulnerability of his post to enemy raid. As this letter is endorsed by Thomson “read 29,” it seems probable that it was discussed during the debate on Griffin’s report. SeeJCC, 15:1111, 1126—27; and PCC, item 147,2:485-96,501-4. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General Confidential Phila. Sep. 30th 1779 Your favor of the 26th has reached me wth. 3 inclosed. Arthur Lee is sacrificed. John Jay goes to Spain with Carmichael for Secretary. John Adams is to Negociate Peace and alliance with England, Dana is chosen his Secretary; and Col. John Lawrence is chosen Secy, to Franklin at Versailles. 3 of the 5 carry no ill Look. I was nominated for Versailles as Secy. 1 and am sure that my Resolution is wanted there to disperse the fascinating crew of Stockjobbers who live upon the Secrets of our Minister. But having from seven Months Convic tion in an Heel-tripping Contest seen the Necessity of pushing a
