xxvi Illustrations the venture was unsuccessful and he was recalled in 1794. Illness un fortunately delayed his return to America, and Carmichael died in 1795 at Madrid, where he was buried. Engraving by Albert Rosenthal, Gratz Collection, Historical So ciety of Pennsylvania. Carlisle Commissioners’ “Manifesto and Proclamation,” 61 October 3, 1778 By late summer, Britain’s 1778 peace initiative had been rejected by Congress and the personal efforts of the commissioners to meet privately or through secret agents with American leaders had been exposed and discredited. In a final, futile effort to reach a sympa thetic audience, the Earl of Carlisle, Sir Henry Clinton, and Richard Eden issued a “Manifesto and Proclamation” addressed not only to Congress and state leaders but also directly to “the free inhabitants of the said Colonies, of every rank and denomination.” Learning that the document would be distributed throughout America under flags of truce, however, Congress retaliated by declaring that persons cap tured in the act of distributing it were not entitled to protection from a “flag” and would be taken into custody because the manifesto was “seditious” and designed to “stir up dissentions, animosities and re bellion.” Accordingly the states were asked to seize all persons dis covered “engaged in the prosecution of such nefarious purposes,” and the document was printed in the newspapers “to convince the good people of these states of the insidious designs of the said commission ers.” The effort was also held up to ridicule by William Henry Dray ton in a public letter printed in the Pennsylvania Packet on October 29, and Congress issued a proclamation of its own on October 30 cataloging the “barbarity” and “wanton destruction” practiced by the enemy. Conceding failure, the commissioners boarded ship at New York on November 27 for their return to England. Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. Lafayette 112 Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, marquis de Lafay ette, is the best known of the foreign officers who served in the Con tinental Army during the American Revolution. Commissioned a major general by Congress on July 31, 1777, Lafayette distinguished himself in the field on a number of occasions and sustained wounds at the battle of Brandywine. Although but twenty years of age when he entered the American service, he quickly gained the confidence of his troops and the friendship of the commander in chief, and he was held in high esteem throughout the war by a number of delegates to Congress. He was fiercely loyal to Washington and a determined enemy to critics of the general such as Thomas Conway. He was
