Illustrations xxvii selected by Congress in 1778 to command an “irruption” into Canada, but when he discovered the inadequacy of the preparations that were being made for it he advised its abandonment and in the process won the admiration of several observers for the maturity of his judgment and his restraint in the pursuit of personal advancement. Disap pointed at the collapse of the Canadian adventure, Lafayette returned to France in 1779 as an advocate of the Franco-American alliance and worked to stifle any disillusionment with the American cause that might have been stimulated by returning French officers who had failed in personal efforts to enter the Continental service. Following his return to America in 1780, Lafayette was assigned command of the Continental forces mobilized to check the invasion of Virginia by the Earl of Cornwallis the following spring, and he participated in a num ber of engagements leading to the victory at Yorktown in October 1781. Although he enjoyed a long and distinguished career after re turning to France following the American Revolution, surviving the great upheavals that shook France from the Revolution in 1789 to the Revolution of 1830, he remained for Americans the enduring symbol of the Franco-American alliance. To this symbolism his American con temporaries paid special tribute during his triumphal tour of the United States in 1824, thirteen years before his death. Painting by Charles Willson Peale, 1779. Washington-Custis-Lee Collection, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va. Congress’ “Manifesto,” October 30, 1778 149 Congress’ “Manifesto” of October 30, 1778, had its origin in a committee appointed in January 1778 that was charged with pre paring “a manifesto on the injurious treatment our prisoners and faithful citizens receive from the enemy.” The work languished, however, until August, when Congress received a remonstrance ol the 7th and a “declaration” of the 26th from the British peace commissioners concerning treatment of the prisoners of the Conven tion Army. And it was not brought to fruition until after Congress decided on an appropriate response to the Carlisle Commissioners October 3 “Manifesto and Proclamation” directed to the American people. The result was a rehearsal of the “wanton destruction practiced by British forces “in their vain attempt to subjugate the unconquerable spirit of freedom” in the United States and a pledge to take “exemplary vengeance” against America’s enemies if they “persist in their present career of barbarity.” Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. Charles Thomson’s Secret Journal, October 31, 1778 211 Despite the significance of the subject, only a few tantalizing references in the delegates’ correspondence testify to Congress
