xxviii Illustrations interest in the Floridas during the autumn of 1778. On November 2 Congress authorized the commander of the southern military depart ment to proceed in his proposed plan for an expedition against East Florida, even though on October 31 Congress had quietly rejected a proposal from the Spanish governor of New Orleans for an attack on West Florida. As the latter resolution concerned a sensitive issue that Congress wished not to have published, however, it was not entered on the regular journal of Congress but was relegated instead by Secretary Thomson to an entry in his “secret” journal. Apologizing for their inability to mount an expedition against West Florida "at this time,” the delegates simply resolved to thank Governor Bernardo de Galvez for “his spirited & disinterested conduct towards these states” and declared that it was their hope that notwithstanding other priorities the states would soon be able to “operate effectually in that quarter.” National Archives and Records Service. Resolves on “Arrangement” of the Army, November 24, 1778 261 “Arranging” the Continental Army was one of the staples of Congress’ work during 1778. The year had opened with the army encamped at Valley Forge facing a provisions and morale crisis, which led Congress to dispatch a committee to camp to confer with Washington on proposals to improve military conditions. The "com mittee at camp” and its successor “committee of arrangement” inves tigated a multitude of problems during their visits to Valley Forge, and in the aftermath the committees submitted many recommenda tions for congressional action. By autumn, major proposals for "arranging” the army had been adopted, but a number of problems concerning officer seniority, and particularly the equitable treatment of those who had been prisoners of war, remained to be acted upon. On November 24 Congress adopted a series of resolves establishing rules and regulations for settling most of the remaining issues, and copies of these were transmitted to the commander in chief on the 26th. Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. John Jay 323 Jay, a New York lawyer educated at King’s College and son-in-law of New Jersey governor William Livingston, was elected to the First Continental Congress in 1774, and he continued in Congress in 1775- 76. Jay drafted Congress’ 1774 Address to the People of Great Britain and a 1775 Petition to the King that was rejected by the delegates, apparently because it was too conciliatory. After serving in the Provincial Congresses and Provincial Convention of New York in 1776-77, he was elected chief justice of the New York Supreme Court
