Illustrations xxix when the new state government was organized in 1777, but he was sent back to Congress with a special appointment to represent the state in its dispute over the Vermont lands in 1778. Only three days after Jay’s arrival, Henry Laurens stunned the delegates with his sudden resignation as president because of their refusal to take action against Silas Deane, and the following day Jay was elected to succeed him. He served as president of Congress until September 1779, when he was elected minister plenipotentiary to Spain, and he was appointed a commissioner to negotiate peace with Britain in 1781. Jay’s role in the negotiations at Paris in 1782 was marked by his conspicuous distrust of British and French officials, and he was clearly more comfortable working with the suspicious John Adams than the less skeptical Benjamin Franklin. Upon his return to America, he served as secretary of foreign affairs in 1784-90. A force ful advocate of the new federal Constitution, Jay wrote five of the Federalist essays to promote its ratification, and he was appointed the first chief justice of the United States Supreme Court by Washington in 1789. Despite his judicial position, Jay was also appointed special envoy in 1794 to negotiate a dispute with Great Britain, contributing to a highly controversial treaty bearing his name that was nearly rejected by the Senate. He returned to the service of his state in 1795 when he resigned from the Supreme Court to accept the governorship of New York, which he held 1795-1801. In retirement Jay continued to sponsor various public causes, particularly as an antislavery advo cate and as president of the American Bible Society. He died in 1829 at the age of 83. Painting by Charles Willson Peale. Maryland Historical Society. Richard Hutson Hutson, a Charleston, South Carolina, lawyer-planter, was the son of a Congregational minister and had been educated at the College of New Jersey at Princeton. He served with the militia during the British attack on Charleston in 1776 and was a member of the South Carolina Assembly during 1776-78. Elected in 1778, at the age of 30, by South Carolina to Congress, Hutson served nearly a year while Congress was convened at York and at Philadelphia, during which time he became a signer of the Articles of Confederation. As a member of the Committee of Commerce he participated in negotia tions with Theveneau de Francy over Caron de Beaumarchais’ contract for supplies imported from France. And in early 1779 he and James Duane were appointed to confer with the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, on an agreement concerning French pro visions purchases to limit the depreciation of the Continental dollai caused by French bills of exchange, an assignment that was doubtless made because of his work on the Board of Treasury. Upon his return
