XXX Illustrations to South Carolina, he was returned to the state assembly four addi tional terms, and he was selected lieutenant governor of South Caro lina in 1782. Hutson supported ratification of the federal Constitu tion as a delegate to the South Carolina ratifying convention in 1788, and he was a delegate to the state constitutional convention in 1790. He died in 1795 at the age of 47. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54683). Thomas Paine 429 Paine is probably best known to Americans as the leading pam phleteer of the American Revolution, the author of Common Sense and the Crisis letters. He was appointed by Congress secretary to the Committee for Foreign Affairs in April 1777, and it was in that capacity that he was thrust into the limelight in January 1779 when he was accused of publishing information contained in the commit tee’s confidential diplomatic correspondence. On the one hand, he had challenged Silas Deane’s defense against charges of corruption leveled by Arthur Lee, and on the other he had claimed that the French government had provided supplies to America while still at peace with Britain in 1776-77. Under pressure brought by Conrad Alexandre Gerard, who obtained an official denial of these charges from Congress, Paine resigned his position, and in the maneuvering that followed, some of Paine’s allies, such as Henry Laurens, found their positions embarrassingly compromised. Paine subsequently remained in the public eye as die contributor of several newspaper essays denouncing Deane and his supporters, and he briefly enlisted his pen in the service of Gerard to promote Franco-American good will. But Paine was too volatile to continue under the restraints sought by Gerard and soon declined French employment. He con tinued to live precariously in America until 1787, when he returned to his birthplace, England. It was there that he again plunged him self in the cause of revolution after the fall of the Bastille in 1789. His Rights of Man was a powerful defense of the early progress of the French Revolution, but die excesses of the Terror and the attack on him by Edmund Burke soon deprived him of many of his former admirers in the United States. Publication of his deistic tract The Age of Reason in 1794 scandalized even more Americans, and after he returned to the United States in 1802, his last seven years were marked by declining health, poverty, and ostracism. Painting by John Wesley Jarvis, ca. 1806-7. National Gallery of Art, Washington (Gift of Marian B. Maurice, 1950).
