October 1, 1778 7 to me. I observe with due Attention all you write in this Letter respectg. the Publick remittances for your relief, but you must be better informed in many things relative to the Publick Business than you are, before you can understand why I wish Consignments to be made you in preference to your drawing on Europe, for I am still of the same Opinion & it would take up more time than I can spare to inform you of all the Causes that conspired to prevent such Consignments from being made but they are such as induced me in Novr. last to draw up a Plan for establishing a Board of Commis sioners to carry on the Publick Commerce. 5 This 1 left with Congress & have ever since refused to have any thing to do with it myself 8c the consequence is that nothing is done at all as the Plan met with some opposition, the Consideration of it was postponed from time to time 8c no determination has been had thereon to this day. Your Draft on me in favor. Madm. Thomas for 1249 46/90ths Dollars was duely paid. The other parts of your Letter of 20th April are I think answered by what I have already wrote therefore proceed to the next which is dated the 6th May 8c proposes a plan for making our Loan Office Certificates negotiable in foreign Countries. In their present Form this is not practicable 8c as there is only one Certificate for each Sum 8c that payable to the Bearer you will be sensible the exportation of them would be attended with as much risque as Merchandize, it may probably surprize when I tell you, that foreseeing the advantages which would result to Commerce 8c to this Country from such Certifi cates as you mention, I proposed them above a Year ago in Congress when the Plan met a most Violent Opposition 8c was finally rejected, 6 therefore that Scheme will not do at present altho I believe it might be brought to bear some little time hence as the Sentiments of Certain Gentn. on these Subjects seem to be a good deal changed. Messr. Conyngham, Nesbitt 8c Co. 8c I have a good many Concerns together but I do not encline to form any more General Connection or Partnerships, neither is it necessary, for if I can but once get the Command of my time I have in every other respect the means of doing as much business as I chuse. The Six Bales of Linnens you consign’d to Messr Hooe 8c Harrisons they sold 8c have Accounted with me for our half the Net Proceeds. The other half they say are to Account with you for. Your Letters of 10th 8c 18th May only require to be acknowledged 8c to tell you that I forwarded the Letters to your Friends 8c sent word to your Mother that I was not only ready to pay the 1600 Dolls, you ordered but also to Supply her with any Money she might want 8c I have already answered what relates to Loan Office Certificates. Your Original Letter of the 2d June never arrived 8c no doubt you have been advsed by Mr Duncan of his Misfortune in being taken. I was very sorry for your Loss in that Vessell 8c Cargo.
