8 October 1, 1778 Mrs. Morris was vexed at her disappointment in the loss of the Sugar, Coffee and Limes for Amount whereof I credit you Lrs. 218.9.6 agreable to the Invoice with thanks for your Attention. I observe also that one of Mr. Grays Cases of Wine was on Board this Vessell & is lost but where are the other two Cases, I hear nothing of them. 1 mentioned to the Members of the Committee for Foreign Affairs your desire of returning to this Place & observe you have now men tioned it yourself. I think they have no right to object & I will try to procure you an order or remittance for the Ballance of your ac count. Your favr. of the 24th June is Accompanied with the Accounts relative to the Brigt. Retaliation all of which I have entered in my Books without examining them minutely, this however shall be done when I can find leisure for it 8c if any remarks should hereafter appear necessary you must expect to hear them as also to Correct Errors of any we discovered as to remittances I shall write of them by & by. If the Underwriters on the Brigt. Industry do not pay that loss on receipt of the Papers I forwarded there is no use in making Insurance, but I think they must have paid it long since 8c I count on our half as so much in your hands before this time. Mr. Braxton insists on the propriety of his Claim on you for the Double of Conyng- hams Bill but you must settle it yourselves being very disagreable for me to interfere. The Possessors of Money in the West Indias are become too sensible of the Value of it to expect any good bargains can be made in that way at this time of day therefore you must not expect it. I have always desired the Goods you sent on our joint Account to be sold off as fast as good prices could be obtained 8c be lieve this is chiefly complied with. You request me to give you an an swer about the Musquetts you agreed for on the Publick Account 8c I have long expected the Committee had done this 8c having with drawn myself from those Committees I do not like to interfere. My private Opinion is that you should have taken 8c sent them along as the Transaction was known to them from the first 8c never con tradicted. I think they were bound in honour to fulfill your engage ments. Your Letter of 6th July mentions the Applications of Mr. Limozin 8c Mr. Cathalan for remittances, you need not remit any thing for our Houses Share as I have ordered Mr. Ross to pay them 8c make no doubt he has long since done so. Nothing more can I say about the Musquetts except urging the Committee again which shall be done. The Goods you consigned Mr. Crosby arrived safe, he has been here 8c says he is to Account with me for half-the Net Proceeds when sold I desired him to make the most of them soon as he could. It was out of my power to assist him with Loan Office Certificates not having yet compleated your order to myself for that sort of Paper. Your favr. of 1st Augt. advises the Arrivel of 68 Bales of Blankets from Havre de Grace they are on Account of W.M. 8c
