October 1, 1778 9 Co[mpan]y being the remains of an old order. You shall have Credit for the Freight & Charges on them & I hope the whole Balla, due you will be paid before long for your Complaints on this Subject are very painfull to me. I fancy you will not find it so difficult to Ship these Bales to me as you seen to imagine, as they contain Blankets that are greatly wanted. I shall be very impatient to receive them & entertain hopes that you will meet Virginia Boats or other fast Sail ing Vessells to receive more or less of the Bales until the whole are dispatched. But the Triplicate of your favr. of the 19th Augt. which is the latest I have received seems to confirm your Apprehensions of not meeting with Opportunitys to remit me these Goods. I hope however that your endeavours to send them will not be wanting as it would be a great disappointment not to receive them this Winter. Having now gone through your Letters 8c made such reply thereto as at this time appears necessary, I shall proceed to such other things as may occurr. When I had wrote thus farr, I discovered that the Boat by which this was intended to go had gone down 8c I had only time to Scribble over a few Lines of Apology which I sent after her 8c hope they have got on board 8c this must go by Captn. James Robertson in the Sloop William which I have bought in Connection with Messr. Co. Nesbitt 8c Co[mpan]y 8c we conclude to send her to Martinique consigned to you 8c Mr. H [ayfield] Conyngham that is the one third part to him 8c my %rds to you. We bought this Vessell as she lay in Egg Harbour with 48 hogsheads Tobacco on Board 8c have sent down 12 hogs heads more to fill her. Captn Robertson goes down to Morrow 8c we expect the Vessell will be quite ready by the time he gets down so that he may proceed on the Voyage immediately. Mr. Nesbitt will write the Instructions which will be that you are to make the best Sale you possibly can of the Cargo supply what may be necessary for Charges 8c expences, pay Captn. Robertson Fifty Pounds, Ship 500 Bushells of Salt on board for the Owners Account 8c then Mr. Conyngham is to receive their one third of the Ballance 8c you are to Credit me for two thirds. Mr. Nesbitt will I suppose order his Money to be Invested in goods to come back by this Vessell but my Intention is that you Credit W.M. 8c Co[mpan]y for my two thirds of the Bal lance 8c that you Ship back in this Sloop about one fourth part of the Bales of Blankets you have received from Mr. Limozin if so many of them still remain with you when this Vessell is there but should you have Shipped those Goods 8c any others have since come to your hands for my Account or for Acct of W.M. 8c Co[mpanly you may Ship of such to the Value of £1000 Sterling or there abouts if so much there be, or if the Powder from St. Eustatia should be sent to you 8c remains with you Ship a Quantity of that; but if you have sent away all the Blankets 8c have not any other Goods of mine or the
