10 October 1, 1778 Houses then I must request you to Invest half the Ballance you are to receive from this Sloops present Cargo in .Molasses, Rum, Sugar & Coffee assorting it as you judge best & Ship it back by this Sloop consigned to me on Acct. & risque of Thos. Willing & myself. In that Case the other half will remain towards discharging the Ballance due you from Willing, Morris & Coy. & as that Ballance is entirely owing by the House I have Shipped this adventure on Acct, of T.W. & my self & shall make up other consignments in the same way & for the same purpose but then we must have something sent back in the Vessells to make up their Voyages unless the Blankets or other Goods of ours from Europe remain in your hands in that case the risque of those will be sufficient. I must entreat that Captn. Robertson may have good Dispatch for Wages & expcnces are very extravagant Sc a little delay ruins a Voyage. The Balla, of your Martinique Acct, stands on W.M. & Coy’s Books at Lrs. 78,095.13.8 in your favr. & on my Books at Lrs. 1594.10.4 against you which leaves Lrs. 76,501.3.4, of this Mr. Sami. Bealle should & I suppose has remitted Livrs. 15,100 being what you charged to our Account for Expences on the Powder & which must be made good out of that Concern, this will leave Livrs. 61,401.3.4 against this will come half the Insurance on the Brigt. Industry which certainly must be recovered by Mr. Delap & I hope also you will have to Credit me again for Lrs. 2794 charged in your Acct as my part of outstanding Debts due to the Owners of Brigt. Retaliation the principal part of which I find was owing by Mr. Prejent & I can not help thinking You have been somewhat to blame in suffering W.M. & Coy. to be so basely treated by that Gentn. You knew he had half of our Ship her Cargo & freight in his hands. You knew he was ordered to pay you the whole & I really think it was your Duty to have insisted on the payment whilst he had the Money instead of suffering him to fit out privateers with it 8c the more so as it was entirely owing to your recommendation that we trusted him which we did reluctantly at the time but depended on you to Insist on the payment. If you had done this you would have had little reason to write me in so pressing a Stile for remittances. I mention this affair that you may recollect the reasons of our being in your Debt, that it is in some degree unexpected 8c entirely your own fault. I do not however plead this as a reason why you should not be paid nor in excuse for delay of payment as you may suppose when you recollect that I sent the Schooner Hope for your address for the purpose of discharging part of this Debt out of her Cargo but she was unluckily taken. I also assigned you a further payment out of my half of the Retaliations last Cargo but she unluckily fell to Leeward 8c went into Cape Francois. There are Accidents I could neither foresee nor prevent but my Intentions are evidenced by the outsetts 8c from thence you
