October 1, 1778 11 may gather that it is not necessary to be so pressing with me about remittances—indeed if I had been Master of my Time I would long since have had Money in your hands instead of being indebted but I hope to turn the Scale before long. The Brigt. Retaliation met with as bad a Market at Cape Francois as she would have done at Mar tinique Tobacco being only Lrs. 55 to Lrs. 65, & part of the Cargo remained unsold at last Accounts I had from thence. Mr. Ceronio on whom Captn. Ord valued Shipped back some Molasses, Taffia, Sugar & Coffee to the Amot. of what he judged would be coming from the Cargo of Tobacco when sold. The Vessells expences were very high there—She had a quick passage hither & I sold her Cargo for good prices but have not time to enclose the Accounts indeed it cannot now be done for want of the Tare of some Coffee Barrells. After some delay occasioned here on the Publick applying for the Brigt. to go after some Ships that came into our Bay—We hove her down loaded her with Tobacco & she is is gone for Port L’Orient in France under the Command of Captn. Thos. Bell as Captn. Ord desired to stay on Shoar a while. She is well manned with 30 Men & I have ordered her directly back here with a Valuable & suitable Cargo on Account of the Owners & if she gets safe back a fine Voyage must be made. She is addressed to Messr. Gourlade & Moylan & the Value of this Tobacco ordered back in Goods. You shall have all Accounts relative to this Brigt. by some future Opportunity after I have time to adjust & make them out. I shall also send you an Ac count of the Loan Office Certificates & State of your Acct. Currt. which I cannot attempt to do at this time & indeed this Letter is spun out to such a Length that I think it time to close it. Were it not for the Embargo I would Ship you a Quantity of Flour as this Article is both scarce & dear however if any alteration takes place that will enable me to do it consistantly I shall not fail to embrace the Oc casion. Should the Goods Mr. Nesbitt & myself have ordered back in the Sloop not be sufficient to fill her perhaps you may encline to Ship by her on your own Account or more Salt may be added. I hope soon to address you again &: remain, Dear Sir, Your Affect. Friend & Obed, hble Servant, Robt Morris. P.S. I beg you will send the Blankets quick as possible & by good Conveyance. RC (DLC: Bingham Papers). In the hand of John Swanwick and signed by Morris. 1 For references to these letters, which Morris wrote from his home at Manheim during a six-month leave of absence from Congress, see these Letters, 9:567n.2, 651n.4. 2 The evidence for determining just when Morris’ congressional career ended is ambiguous. He voted with the Pennsylvania delegates on a roll call vote of October 16, but he is not listed in votes recorded on October 21 and 29. He was, however, named to committees appointed on October 23 and 24. and in a November 3
