October 5, 1778 21 induce me to think that the enemy will not attempt Boston, notwith standing the Object is so tempting under its present circumstances. For, if success presents advantages and great ones too, failure is most certain ruin. In fact more may be lost than can possibly be gained. Gen. Clintons Army is the only hope of Canada, Nova Scotia, Flor idas, West Indies, and perhaps I may safely add, very much of G. Britain & Ireland. Should Burgoynes fate be Clintons the four former possessions are infallibly lost, and the two latter shaken to their foundations. Revenge must therefore be postponed to safety, and keeping what they have must precede the recovery of what they have lost. We hear pretty directly, that Dominica is already in the possession of our Ally, and that Jamaica and St Kitts are trembling for fear. Admiral Keppel too, it seems, has fled from the fleet of France. These things do not admit a much longer stay here. However we ought in wisdom, to be completely guarded against every attempt, and every one of us, in his Station should be contriving to that end. My brother Arthur will be happy to hear from you, for I know he considers your Victories as contributing more essentially than any thing else to place us on the ground of security and honor upon which we now stand. I am, with sincere esteem and affection, dear Sir your obliged friend, Richard Henry Lee RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Gates’ September 23 letter to Lee is in the Lee Papers, PPAmP. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philadelphia October 5, 1778 A few days past, since the last post left us, Mr. Harvey presented me your favor of August of 30th, 1 to which this is an answer; and which I shall direct to Williamsburg upon a supposition that the Assembly has called you there by the time the letter can reach that place. The hand bill you have seen was certainly written by Mauduit, and circulated under the auspices of administration. 2 Twas intended to feel the national pulse, and to prepare its mind for the reception of events, which are now become unavoidable. I agree with you Sir that the fishery is a most important point nor will the limits of Canada be with less difficulty settled in those negotiations which precede a peace. The arrival of Adm. Byrons Squadron has given to our enemies a temporary superiority in those Seas. The sending him here was more necessary than it can be called bold. But the fleet of Great Britain is, by this detachment, rendered inferior to that of France in the Channel of England. My brother informs me from
