October 5, 1778 23 so greatly pressed with business that I cannot now write to Mr. Mazzei and must beg the favor of you to make this apology for me. [Be so k]ind as remember me affectionately to Mr. Wythe & Colo. [.. . i]f he is with you. I am affectionately yours, Richard Henry Lee P.S. Colo. Baylor, with a Corps of 60 light Dragoons, was lately surprised in the Jerseys, between Hackensack and the North River— Himself made prisoner, and his party chiefly put to the Bayonet, it is said, in cold blood. RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:210-11. 2 This “hand bill,’’ which Jefferson had stated was "published in our papers as certified by your brother [i.e., Arthur Lee],” had appeared in John Dunlap’s Penn sylvania Packet on August 22, 1778, described as "a handbill, written by Mr. Mauduit, under the direction of Lord North, and circulated through England by order of Administration.” Interest in the document derived from the fact that Israel Mauduit, a longtime ministerial defender of British rights in America and former colonial agent for Massachusetts, had asserted in it: “We have no possible chance of making peace with her [America], but by . . . giving her perfect inde pendence.” It had been published in London in March 1778. See Henry Laurens to Washington, July 31, 1778, note 12. 3 In his August 30 letter to Lee, Jefferson had suggested that his friend Philip Mazzei might be “usefully emploied” with William Lee in Europe. "His connec tions,” Jefferson asserted, “in Tuscany are good, his acquaintance with capital men there, in Rome, and Naples great. He also resided some years in Constantinople where he contracted a knolege of the customs of the country, the mode of doing business there and of some respectable characters which might perhaps render him more able to be useful to us than many others.” Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:211. 4 For the Virginia legislature’s June 1779 bill on “Engrossing,” see ibid., pp. 561-66. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia October the 5th 1778 I hope the measures you have taken will be effectual to the purpose of reenlisting the Army because it is an object of great importance; and I readily admit the propriety of first trying those methods which promise fewest ill consequences. Danger will only arise from pressing such too far, and urging the experiment too long. I very much fear Sir, that the knowledge of depreciation has reached the most unin formed, and therefore, that every evil which can, will happen to us from this cause. But I am not without hope that such measures will be adopted as may, before it is too late, restore our currencey to its proper value. 1 It is indeed no easy matter to judge of the designs of the enemy. They have created to themselves a great choice of difficulties. I
