October 6, 1778 33 abilities to oppose them with success. 1 I value most what our great Politicians value least. Congress are at present a Government of Men. It would astonish you to think how all affairs proceed upon the interested Principle: Members prostituting their votes in ex pectation of mutual assistance upon favorite Points. I am appre hensive that in geting free from oppression in one quarter, we are likely to establish it in another; by avoiding one set of Plunderers we are certain to fall into the Clutches of a still more dangerous set. I am sorry our good Friend Harvey is about to leave Congress; he is a valuable man in times like the present, a man of great virtue and boldness of Spirit. If the Land office should be established, put him at the head of it; his abilities and honesty will be highly necessary in that Employment. The motions of the Enemy are very uncertain; there is an expedition going forward on the part of General Clin ton, but to what object is merely conjecture, perhaps to Boston- New England and the French Fleet are powerful inducements. All Circumstances considered, I believe they are going to guard the remaining parts of their Dominion. In the mean time they will destroy everything they possibly can, and I should not wonder if Philadelphia 2 itself was reduced to ashes before their departure. As yet Spain have taken no part to our advantage, indeed Arthur Lee still remains at Paris. The Court of Berlin have refused William Lee the Commissioner of Congress to that quarter: he is now gone to Vienna, 3 the most accomplished Metropolis in the world. We are plagued to death with quarrels and recriminations relative to our Commissioners abroad; these men will involve the Continent in perdition. It is absolutely necessary that Dean should be sent over to Europe for the most valuable purpose in the world, but some Gentlemen are determined to ruin an innocent Character, notwithstanding he alone has the great merit of concluding that valuable Treaty with the Minister of France. Tell MacLurg and President Maddison they are both s in not answering my Letters. The next I write you will be in a different stile; this only by way of preface. I must beg to trouble you with my best respects to Mr. Wythe. I am dear sir, your obdt humble servant, C. Griffin RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 Despite his disenchantment with its proceedings and his departure from Con gress about two weeks later, Griffin returned before the end of the year to begin another term that continued until he was appointed by Congress to its newly created Court of Appeals in the spring of 1780. Furthermore, after serving seven years in that capacity he was reelected to Congress by the Virginia Assembly in October 1787 and served the following year as the last president of Congress. DAB. 2 Griffin’s incongruous reference to Philadelphia in this context suggests a simple slip, for at this moment many Americans were anticipating the British evacuation of New York.
