34 October 6, 1778 3 For information on William Lee’s reception in Vienna, where he met a similar rejection, see Karl A. Roider, Jr., “William Lee, Our .First Envoy in Vienna," Virginia Magazine of History and Biography 86 (April 1978): 163-68. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe 6th October [1778] I have lately had the honor of receiving and presenting to Con gress many of your Letters, but I have nothing in Command respect ing you except the inclosed Resolutions of the 25th of September, directing you to repair immediately to General Washington’s Head Quarters and Major General Lincoln to take the Command in the Southern Department. 1 I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Major General Howe, Charlestown, by Dugan to Baltimore, there to be deliver’d Colo. Ternant.” See JCC, 12:951. For additional information on Howe’s removal from the southern command, and a brief analysis of his Continental career in the South see Cornelius Harnett’s letters to Richard Caswell, September 26, note 3, and Novem ber 24, 1778; and Alan D. Watson et al., Harnett, Hooper ir Howe: Revolutionary Leaders of the Lower Cape Fear (Wilmington, N.C.: Lower Cape Fear Historical Society, 1979), pp. 80-85. Henry Laurens to William Livingston 6th October [1778] I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency on the 1st Instant. Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress requesting Your Excellency to obtain information of the Enemys’ treatment of the late Lieutenant Colonel Baylor and his Party who were cut off in New Jersey. 1 It has been represented that the unhappy Colonel, several of his Officers, and many of his Troops were Bayonetted in cold blood, should this be proved, I apprehend suitable retaliation will immediately follow a refusal of satisfaction. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Endorsed: “by Colonel Beatty.” 1 George Baylor’s small regiment had been surprised the night of September 27-28 at Old Tappan, N.J., west of the Hudson opposite Dobb’s Ferry. The en gagement. virtually eliminated the unit as a fighting force, and, as Washington reported, "appears to have been attended with every circumstance of cruelty.” The information Congress solicited was collected by Livingston, Gen. William Alex ander, and Dr. David Griffith, the surgeon who had attended Baylor’s wounded, and referred to the Committee of Intelligence on October 26. The committee
