October 6, 1778 35 thereupon prepared extracts of Alexander’s and Griffith’s letters for publication, with a number of affidavits collected from witnesses to the affair, which were printed in the October 29 issue of John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet. See JCC, 12:987, 1062; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:14; Livingston, Papers (Prince), 2:468-70; and PCC, item 53, fols. 103-34, item 68, fols. 413-16, and item 162, fols. 539-40. For another aspect of Congress’ reaction to the Baylor "massacre,” see Laurens to John Beatty, October 9, 1778. Unlike most of the material Congress released for publication, the documents sent to Dunlap at this time survive in PCC, and some of the notations on them shed additional light on the conduct of Congress’ publicity activities. Preparation of the extracts for publication was clearly the work of Richard Henry Lee and William Henry Drayton, and Secretary Thomson’s note to the printer covering this material reads: “After the whole insert published by order of Congress. Chas. Thomson Secry. Please to send me the papers back when you have done with them and also Col. Hartley’s letter which you printed some time ago. I pray you not to neglect sending me back the originals immediately, otherwise I shall not send you any more originals.” PCC, item 53, fols. 133-34. Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir 6th- October [1778] I beg leave to refer to my last private of the 26th. Ulto by Millet. This will be delivered by Lieut. Colonel Ternant who is ordered by Congress to Act as Inspector of the Troops of the United States in South Carolina and Georgia. This Gentleman has served as a Volun teer in the grand Army with the highest reputation. South Carolina and Georgia will in Mr. Ternant receive the acquisition of an ex cellent Officer, and will in turn experience in him a valuable Citizen —his Conduct and manners will speak more in his favor than I can express. I shall do myself the honor of inclosing with this several Papers of Intelligence which with the information Your Excellency will re ceive from Mr Ternant and such additions as no doubt will be made by my Colleagues will put Your Excellency in possession of all our present knowledge of public Affairs. In a Letter which I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the Sth Instant as President of Congress is contained a late Act for continuing the present Em bargo, and for preventing engrossing Provision. I shall not trouble you Sir with my opinions on the several branches of this Act but barely remark that when the power of Congress to lay an Embargo was made a question and the voices of each Member called upon— there appeared fourteen in the negative, twelve affirmative—six States affirmative, five negative. 1 Of these six affirmatives, there were three States represented by Units. I am persuaded my Countrymen will Act on this great occasion as shall appear to be for the general good of these United States. If I may offer my sentiments Congress is not
