46 October 10, 1778 search at different times & particularly this Morning as the fleeting & pressing moments which I dare to borrow from public attentions have permitted me to make, remain undiscovered, although I am sure they are safe in a wrong class. I recollect however & shall never forget a new obligation which in one of them Your Excellency was pleased to lay on me by a very kind notice of my Sons behavior at Rhode Island 8c that you had returned the Gold which I sent to Head Quarters by Jones 2 8c also the Letters of Governor Johnstone, Mr. Oswald 8c Mr Manning. 3 In the present circumstances of Great Britain, rendered deplorable by the waste of another Campaign on this Continent, by the loss of Dominique in the West Indies 8c of a great Marine battle at her own door, it is exceedingly difficult to determine what will be her next step, although I do not think it is, to see the only measures re maining for her salvation. With respect to South Carolina, I can not yet treat the Idea of an attack as altogether chimerical. I am well warranted to say the British Administration held that State 8c Georgia in reserve, for a stroke of necessity which might at any time be made with Success 8c they well know the immense value of those States 8c great things may be done by drawing their forces to one point—they may have indeed stayed a day too late. Be that as it will, I have fully advertised my Countrymen, 8c if the alarm shall prove to have been unnecessarily sounded, their intermediate exertions towards a defence will do them no real injury. Congress have ordered the proceedings of the Court Martial on Major Genl. St. Clair to be printed, 4 8c have appointed Friday the 16th for considering 8c determining on those of the Court on Major Genl. Lee. I have nothing further to offer at present Sir, but the repeated assurances of being with the highest sense of Respect 8c Obligation, Your Excellency’s Most obedient 8c Most humble servant, Henry Laurens. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Laurens to Washington, October 9, 1778, note I. 2 See Laurens’ second letter to Washington of August 28, 1778, note 2. ’ See Laurens’ letters to Washington, June 18, and to George Johnstone, June 14, 1778, note 3. ‘ JCC, 12:989-90. Marine Committee to John Beatty Sir October 10th 1778 The Committee are informed that it has been the practice among your Deputys in the Eastern States to Exchange Prisoners made by the French Fleet without proper Authority.
