October 11, 1778 47 It is the desire of the Committee that you will give strict Orders forbiding this practice on Any Account unless when Ordered by the Admiral or Minister of France. 1 I am sir, Your hble servant, John Brown secy LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The Marine Committee also wrote this day to the Eastern Navy Board en closing funds for the schooners Loyalty and Swan. See Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:13. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir, Philadelphia Octob 11. 1778 In the inclosed News paper you will see certain Queries, calculated to impress on the Minds of the People the Idea of Dr Lee’s having held a criminal Correspondence with a Person known to be at the same Time in the Service and under the Direction of the British Ministry. 1 I hope it will not be in the Power of this Querist to do essential Injury to so eminent a Patriot; who took the earliest and most decisive Part in opposition to the Measures of the British Court, and whose invariable Attachment to the Liberties of our Country, never was, and I think cannot be justly suspected. Yet it may be necessary to guard against it; for I plainly tho silently saw when I was last in Boston a malevolent Disposition towards Dr Lee, in a certain Gentleman, who, till he is better known, will have a great Influence in the Massachusetts State. The Instance you may recollect, as you were knowing to it in the Time of it. I then supposed it to proceed from his having strongly attachd himself, and for a Length of Time to a Circle of Men; and imbibd their Prejudices, who are far remote from the political Connections of Dr Lee, and who differ widely from them in the Adoption of publick Measures regarding either Politicks or Morals. You may remember that some time ago in a letter I informed you, I should have much to say to you about Mr D, 2 of whom I had long formed my opinion, and had not seen Reason to alter it. I have hitherto said Nothing to you about him; because I knew it would lead me to Subjects of great Delicacy, which by being exposd to the Enemy as they would if my Letters should fall into their hands, might disgrace or otherwise be prejudicial to our publick Affairs. This Caution prevents my communicating to you many things on which I wish to unburthen my Mind. Mr D was originally taken up by a secret Committee of Congress appointed to procure from France the necessary Supplys for carrying on the war: By them he was sent to that Country in the Character of a mere Merchant. About that Time another Committee was appointed
