October 14, 1778 57 France & other Parts of Europe, who has so often 8c so seasonably developd the secret Intrigues & Practices of wicked Men, and who at this Time stands high in the Esteem 8c Confidence of the Congress, 8c when it is considered in Addition to this, that there are too many disaffected 8c insidious Men still lurking among us, it is by no Means a strange thing to hear it insinuated by an anonimous Writer, that Dr. Lee also is chargeable with a criminal Correspon dence with the Enemy, without even the Shaddow of Reason. You may publish this if you think proper. I receivd your favor of Sept. 30th. 3 It contains very interesting Matter which shall have my Attention at a more leisure Hour than the present. In the mean time Adieu my Fd. S. A. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 See Adams to Warren, October 11, 1778. 2 Adams may have been referring to John Dalrymple’s Memoirs of Great Britain and Ireland, 3 vols. (Edinburgh: W. Strahan and T. Cadell, 1771-78), particularly the French documents relating to the overthrow of James II in volume two. 3 Warren’s September 30 letter to Adams is in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:47-51. Marine Committee to John Beatty Sir October 14th. 1778 The Minister Plenipotentiary of France having informed Congress that a Negotiation for the Exchange of the respective Prisoners of his most Christian Majesty and the King of Great Britain being begun and near the term of its conclusion it becomes important to accelerate this settlement that the King of France’s Prisoners be immediately removed to the places where the Exchanges are actually to be made. Therefore we now direct that without delay you will take effectual measures for collecting all Prisoners to the King of France that may be on this side of Hudsons River, at, or as near to Elizabeth town in the State of New Jersey as may be proper for their Safety; and also those Prisoners that are on the other side of said River, at New London in the state of Connecticut, at both which places they are to be safely kept until orders for their disposal are given by the Minister of France or the Count D’Estaing. 1. It is our desire that you produce the same number of Prisoners to the King of France that has been delivered to you or your deputys re placing those by an equal number of Prisoners of the same Class belonging to the United States, those only excepted of his most Christian Majestys Prisoners which his Excellency the vice Admiral commanding his Squadron, or the Minister of France should have formally and gratiously released. You must keep perfect and distinct
