October 15, 1778 59 Shall have to pay large Sums to the States who claim the vacant Lands to Supply their Quotas o£ the Troops. Perhaps if the Assembly of Connecticut Should Resolve to make grants to their own Troops, and those raised by the States of Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland in the Lands South of Lake Erie and west of the Lands in Controversy with Pennsylvania, Free of any purchase money or Quit rents to the Government of Connecticut, it might be Satisfactory to those States, and be no damage to the State of Con necticut. A Tract of Thirty Miles East and West across the State would be Sufficient for the purpose, and that being Settled under good regulations would enhance the value of the rest; These could not be claimed as Crown Lands, both the Fee and Jurisdiction having been Granted to the Governor & Company of Connecticut. 4 We are Sir with great respect, Your Excellency’s most obedt & most hble Servts. Roger Sherman Oliver Ellsworth FC (CtY: Sherman Papers). In the hand of Roger Sherman. Tr (DLC: Force Collection). ’Trumbull’s letter is in Trumbull Papers (MHS Colls.), 2:274—76. 3 See Henry Laurens to Trumbull, October 16, 1778, note 2. 3 Nominations for the major treasury posts were not actually made until October 31, when Trumbull’s son, Jonathan, was nominated for comptroller. Three days later he was elected to that position. JCC, 1085-86, 1096. 4 Remainder of letter taken from the Tr. Samuel Holten’s Diary [October 15, 1778] 15. Thursday. A Manifesto or Proclamation from the Comrs. of the British King appeared in the paper of this day offering a Genl. Pardon, but I believe there is but few people here want their pardon. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 For further information on the October 3 "Manifesto” of the Carlisle Com missioners that was printed in the October 15 issue of John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet, see Samuel Adams to Timothy Matlack, October 16, 1778. James Lovell to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Octo. 15th. 1778. Hond & Dear Sir, Your favor to me of the 5th 1 by Brown found me in bed, under most severe symptoms of a nervous fever. I had enjoined it upon myself not to visit my family, till the Accounts of my dear, injured,
