70 October 17, 1778 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). ‘Congress had approved this payment to its marine agents in Virginia, Loyall and Maxwell, on September 9. JCC, 12:892-93. John Mathews to Thomas Bee My Dear Bee, Philadelphia Octr. 17th 1778. I am set down with a heavy & aching heart to write to you. To you I can communicate my sentiments without reserve, as I am sure you will never betray that confidence I repose in you. I will now speak more freely to you than I have yet done. They are the dictates of an honest heart that means well, 8c is deeply impressed with the most poignant grief in contemplating the ruin that impends over this un happy country. Since I have come into C I have viewed the progress of its business with a curious, & a watchful eye. I have for some time past thought this body by no means competent to do the great public business intrusted to them, I am now thoroughly con vinced of the Justice of this observation. I do not think it would be prudent to trust my reasons to paper, I will reserve them untill we meet. Do not think me actuated by an over jealous disposition. In deed I am not. I have refrained from saying this much, untill I was satisfyed there was no room left whereon to hang a doubt. A change of Men, or measures, must be speedily effected, or we are lost. It is a melancholy truth, 8c as I think it high time it was known, I must tell you that the American cause never stood so near the pinnacle of destruction as it at this day does, 8c is daily approaching nearer to its downfall. Whence arises this dangerous alarm? I may be asked. From men in whom you repose an implicit confidence, 8c who are not worthy of it. These are serious matters, 8c require no less serious con sideration. They are meant to operate so far in your mind as to pro duce something for the benefit of that virtuous cause in which you took so early 8c decided a part, and the same noble Patriotism which first fired your bosom to step forth in its support, will, I make not the least doubt again engage your exertions of mind, to devise some means for conducting it to a final 8c happy Issue. I would wish to see one State at least in the Union have fortitude and honesty enough to instruct their Delegates to remonstrate in pointed 8: severe terms, against the abuse, 8c waste of time that Daily is committed in that body. The great public concerns are left to shift for themselves, whilst almost our whole time is ingroced by the private interests of indi viduals. Alas! C is not what it has been. Your own good sence will at once dictate to you that this must be, inter nos, It is a deli cate affair, 8c ought to be handled with extream tenderness, for if these things were once to get abroad, the consequences, you must at
