October 18, 1778 78 the 26th, 3 but as nothing I can say can have equal efficacy with the Act of Congress passed on this occasion the 17th Instant I shall here inclose the said Act and beg leave to recommend its contents to Your Excellency’s attention. 4 I Am with great Respect & Esteem Sir &c. P.S. I am directed to assure Your Excellency that Money for pay ment of the troops will be remitted in a few days. 5 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., October 16, 1778, note 3. 3 At this point an asterisk was inserted to key the following note at the foot of the page: “meaning South Carolina and Georgia." * See Laurens to Richard Caswell, September 26, 1778, note 2. * For this resolution requesting reinforcements from North Carolina and Virginia for the defense of South Carolina and Georgia, the number of which was hereby raised to 6,000 from the 4,000 previously requested, see JCC, 12:102L 5 Laurens also wrote a nearly identical letter this day to Gov. Richard Caswell of North Carolina. Fogg Collection, MeHi. Henry Laurens to John Houstoun Sir 18th October [1778] I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to my late letters of the 13th and 16th Instant sent to Governor Caswell by an Express Messenger with a request to the Governor to be forwarded immediately to Charlestown. 1 Congress having received recent repeated intelligence of the design of the Enemy to attack Charlestown or some part of South Carolina have directed me to request the Governors of Virginia and North Carolina to forward with all expedition the troops requested for the aid of South Carolina and Georgia in their Act of the 25th Ulto. and also an additional number of two thousand from North Carolina as Your Excellency will be more particularly informed by the Inclosed Act of the 17th Instant. One of the British Commissioners’ Manifesto flags of Truce in tended for this River, 2 having on board three Packets supposed to be intended for Delaware, Pennsylvania and Congress was by a violent wind driven a few days ago on the Jersey shore and wrecked, the Commander of the flag Vessel said to be a Lieutenant of a British 50 Gun ship, a Midshipman and eight or ten Seamen escaped with their lives, these were seized and sent prisoners to Philadelphia, and were yesterday committed to the New Goal—tomorrow I shall enquire more particularly into the history of their errand, there is among the Seamen a person who was formerly a skillful Pilot on
