October 20, 1778 79 from Mr. Lewis for the delivery of the Cannon brought by Capt. Borritz in to No Carolina to the States of Virginia and No Carolina each to pay for what they receive agreeable to the Contracts in tobacco. These Resolutions of Congress and the Commercial Com mittee I Shall send down by tomorrow’s Post and hope the States will immediately deliver the Tobacco and thereby Save demurrage. Thus far is all the intelligence that occurs to me as necessary to be given you at this time. If any thing further offers I Shall write you again by this Post. The time is now near at hand when I Shall be relieved from my Seat in Congress, but you may See in our news Papers that our fellow Citizens are determined not to leave me master of my own time, and as I cannot by our Constitution Serve longer in Congress they have Elected me a Burgess for this City in the general assembly. This However will not claim quite So much of my time as the Congress did. Should your wants of money for the fleet extend to Such Sums as you may conceive will exceed your de posits here to an inconvenient degree, you will doubtless desire Monsr Gerard to apply to Congress for that advance untill you can at convenience replace it, which I mention just to remind you of what in Such case may be necessary. I Shall be happy to hear of your finishing your business at Boston & still more to see you return here, being Dr. Sir, Your’s &Ca. R.M. Tr (DLC: Holker Papers). Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My Dear Betsy Philadelphia Octob 20th—78 A few days ago Mr Brown, a publick Messenger carried a Letter from me to you, which I hope you will receive before this reaches you. I feel a Pleasure when I sit down to write to you and omit no opportunity. My Boston Friends tell me with great Sollicitude that I have Enemies there. I thank them for their Concern for me, and tell them I knew it before. The Man who acts an honest Part in publick Life, must often counteract the Passions, Inclinations or Humours of weak and wicked Men and this must create him Ene mies. I am therefore not disappointed or mortified. I flatter my self that no virtuous Man who knows me will or can be my Enemy; because I think he can have no Suspicion of my Integrity. But they say my Enemies “are plotting against me.” Neither does this dis compose me, for what else can I expect from such kind of Men. If they mean to make me uneasy they miss their Aim; for I am happy and it is not in their Power to disturb my Peace. They add, The
