86 October 20, 1778 coldly to their friends, for believing the relation now too well at tested, of your conduct to those unhappy men who capitulated at Fort Washington. At length conviction came, though slow, yet full. To mention the instances in which you broke faith with the public and with indi viduals, would be to write the history of your three campaigns, with all the attirais of proclamations and protections. But it would be for the honour of human nature to bury this history in oblivion. It is sufficient for the present to observe, that we became fully convinced you were no longer to be trusted. Honest men, after they have been defrauded, acquire that whole some suspicion which others inherit. The only difference indeed is, that the former reason from facts, the latter from feelings. Of conse quence mutual diffidence took place to the greatest degree; and it is perhaps as laughable a circumstance as any of the others that you made at this time, and under such auspices your conciliatory propo sitions, which of all things required the greatest confidence. But to return. It was predicted by every discerning man, that the troops of the convention would be used against us the instant they were out of our power. Your former conduct justified the inference, and consider ing the many infractions you made in it from the very commence ment of the treaty, Congress had good right to have declared the stipulations on their part void. Principles, however, of national honour induced the determination of that Body strictly to comply with the convention. Luckily for America General Burgoyne, by declaring in a letter to Congress that they had broken it, gave an additional ground, known and acknowledged among nations, for suspending it until a ratification from the court of Great-Britain. It is observable, that even then the suspension was carried by a very small majority, although every Member present was convinced you did not mean to pay the least regard to it. They reasoned (but with what force it becomes not me to determine) that it was better to convince the world by one more experiment of your want of integ rity. Luckily however, they were overruled; and you have daily given additional proofs of the wisdom of that cautionary measure. On the requisition by yourself and others, Commissioners, &c. dated at New-York, the 26th August, 2 the following doubts arise: 1st. Why was it not made sooner, since clearly the Commissioners had as much power to ratify it before, and their King was as much in need of his troops. 2d. By what authority did the Commissioners intermeddle in a business by no means in contemplation at the time of their appoint ment, and (as will be shewn hereafter) clearly out of their power,
