October 20, 1778 87 especially when you the proper person was on the spot, and only made one of them. I am informed that the solution given in Congress at the time was, that the Commissioners had received a ratification of the convention, together with orders to make an application of that kind, with a view to two objects: 1st. If possible to obtain the prisoners, and then declare the con vention void by reason of the suspension, and of their want of authority. 2d. At least to lead Congress into some kind of treaty or corre spondence with them on the subject, and thereby indirectly into an acknowledgment of an authority in the Commissioners to treat with us as subjects of Great-Britain. This is confirmed substantially by your letter; for it cannot be supposed that your Ministers have less pride or wisdom than hereto fore. If therefore their Commissioners had been possessed of suffi cient authority, they would hardly have sent you that express and recent authority you mention to have received since the date of their requisition. It is worthy of observation that this date is the 26th of August, and Your authority the twelfth of June, between which is an interval of eleven weeks. It is evident that Your Ministers in the critical situation of their country, would give this paper every pos sible dispatch. Six weeks or seven, at farthest, were sufficient to transmit it from Whitehall to New-York. Hence it is evident, not only that you had received that paper before the date of the requisi tion, but also that it was on that ground the requisition was made. 3 What right had the Commissioners to interfere in it? They were appointed for the single purpose of persuading us to become subjects to the King, being a kind of missionaries to propagate monarchy in foreign parts, 4 and what connection this has with a military conven tion, no man can discover. They had no authority to speak to Con gress on national grounds. They were not Ambassadors, Ministers Plenipotentiary, nor any thing of that kind. They were not appointed by letters of credence but by commission under the great seal, not from the mere motive of the Prince, but by Act of Parliament. In short, the whole mission was on domestick principles; when there fore the people of America refused to become subjects to the King of England, their authority, if any they had, ceased, nor could they possibly have had authority to the purpose they pretended. It was given them neither by their commission, nor by the act on which that commission was grounded, nor could it possibly have been in con templation when that act was passed; and your letter shews demon stratively, not only that they had not any such authority, but that your King and his Ministers did not think they had. But what kind of authority is your’s? Why it seems you have sent a
