94 October 20, 1778 it may well have been written before the latter. Boutell’s text is reprinted here simply because the two documents reflect parallel concerns. “The affair of our currency is to be considered in Congress today. What will be done to restore and support its credit is uncertain. We can’t lessen the quantity much while the army is kept up. I trust the fullest assurance ought and will be given for redeeming it in due time and for exchanging gold and silver for what shall be out standing at the period fixed for its redemption at the expressed value. The whole that has been emitted is a little more than 60,000,000 dollars. I think a period of about 14 or 15 years should be fixed for sinking the whole. That taxes for about 6 million dollars per annum for 4 years, 5 million dollars for five years and four million dollars per annum for the residue of the period should be imme diately laid to be collected as a sinking fund with liberty for each State to raise more than their annual quota and be allowed 6 per cent interest for the time they may anticipate the payment. That each of the States that have not called in their Bills do it immediately and refrain from further emissions and tax themselves for current expenses. Besides liberty may be given for the people to bring in as many of the Bills as they please into loan offices, with assurance that the whole that is brought in shall be burnt. That all unnecessary expenses be retrenched and the best economy introduced. That the future expense of the war be defrayed as far as may be by taxes and the residue by emissions—and if the war ceases this year, which I think not improbable, our finances may soon be put on a good footing. Provision ought to be made in the meantime by each State to prevent injustice to creditors and salary men.” Lewis Henry Boutell, Life of Roger Sherman (Chicago: A.C. McClurg and Co., 1896), pp. 106-7. John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir In Congress Oct. the 21st. 1778. I have this moment received from the president of Congress, the inclosed Copy of a Confession of a pilot on board the Flag Ship that was cast away on the Jersey Shore. 1 I gave you yesterday the best intelligence we have respecting the motions of the Enemy. I believe we may rest assured that Boston is the object of their destination. I shall continue to give you the earliest account we have. I am Sir with great respect your most obedt. and hble. Servt. J. Henry RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 This “Confession” of Abraham Whiltbank, who reported that when he left New York on October 8 several hundred loyalist refugees there were “associating” for a descent on Delaware or Maryland, is in Md. Archives, 21:220-21. In response to Henry’s warning, the Maryland Council enclosed copies of it with a circular letter of October 25, 1778, which was sent with an appropriate warning to the lieutenants of the Maryland counties on the Eastern Shore. Ibid., p. 224. Henry’s enclosure is actually an extract of the document President Laurens had received, a copy of which, bearing the following endorsement in Laurens’ hand, is in the Laurens Papers, no. 18, ScHi. “Abram Wilbanks’ information respecting the proceedings of the Enemy at New York. 20th October 1778.
