104 October 24, 1778 William Henry Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners Philadelphia, October 24, 1778. To the Earl of Carlisle, Sir henry clinton, and william eden, Esq; Your Excellencies Proclamation and Manifesto of the 3d of Oc tober, is the subject of my present amusement. 1 -You were commis sioned for the sole purpose of amusing the Americans, and it must be confessed, even by your greatest enemies, that you have acted your parts in a masterly manner: The American nation are not a little obliged to your Excellencies for the diversion you have afforded them. This very entertaining Manifesto of yours, is addressed to the Members of Congress, the Members of the General Assemblies or Conventions of the several States in the union, and to all others, free inhabitants of those States; and therefore it naturally follows, that I may with propriety address myself to your Excellencies in return. I would not for the world omit shewing “a just regard to the characters you bear.” You are pleased to say, that ‘‘having amply and repeatedly made known to Congress, and having also proclaimed to the inhabitants of North-America in general, the benevolent overtures of Great Britain towards a union and coalition with her Colonies, you do not think it consistent, either with the duty you owe to your country, or with a just regard to the characters you bear, to persist in holding out offers, which in your estimation required only to be known to be most gratefully accepted.” I must confess to your Excellencies, that I think this sentence is full of dignity and elegance; it corresponds “with the duty you owe to your country and with a just regard to the characters you bear.” It was not possible for me to conceive,, that while you were laying down this idea, that you were resolved “to persist in holding out offers” to Congress and the inhabitants of North-America, which they had treated with the most sovereign contempt. But in a moment, your manifesto convinced me, it was drawn up for the very purpose which it reprobated in the most pointed terms. Your Excellencies are happy in being possessed of a facility in reconciling to yourselves, ideas, which to the rest of the world appear utterly irreconcileable. Great poets are not confined by rules; and your Excellencies shew us, that great politicians are equally exempted. You “again declare” to Congress those offers which they have re peatedly rejected as absolutely inadmissable. Could your Excellen cies flatter yourselves, that because you persisted in renewing your offers, that therefore Congress would accept them! It is true, some gallants have wooed in this manner with success, the fair being too
