October 24, 1778 105 gentle to resist such importunities; but the materials you are at work upon, are rather of a firmer nature. Look through the proceedings of Congress, and say whether you have found an instance of their re ceding from a declared determination. On the contrary, those pro ceedings must have convinced you, that for you “to persist” in re newing your offers, is to shew the world, that you are resolved to throw away your time. I shall say nothing with respect to the offers you repeat to Congress, nor to your assertion that Congress were not authorized to reject your offers, or to refer you to foreign treaties, which though real, you are pleased now to call “pretended.” Enough has been said on those subjects in several letters to your Excellencies; 2 nor do I think it consistent with a just regard to the character I bear, now to persist in repeating those arguments which fully pointed out the insidious nature of those offers, and the falsity of those as sertions. But, as to your invitation to the General Assemblies sep arately, I must say it would be too dangerous an expedient for them to trust to, even were they disposed to relinquish their independence. And, as to your invitation to the free inhabitants individually, this is yet more exceptionable than the last. It is not by such very partial negociations, that a people are to force Britain to yield them im portant national advantages. And this must be obvious to every man, because during the whole course of this dispute, Britain has never been disposed to yield a single point, but when she lay under the edge of the sword of America. If then the combined wisdom and power of America is but adequate to the talk of forcing Great Britain to yield important national advantages to America, can your Excellencies really think, the General Assemblies separately, and the people individually, are so simple, as to be manifestoed by your Excellencies into a belief, that they can procure the same advantages by a disunion of counsel and of force 1 “It has not been,” you say, “nor is it your wish to seek the objects which you are commissioned to pursue, by fomenting popular divi sions and partial cabals.” “But it is both your wish and your duty,” you add, “to encourage and support any men or bodies of men in their return of loyalty to your Sovereign.” Now if this is not a dec laration of your wish to foment popular divisions and partial cabals, I know not what can be; and if your Manifesto was not sent abroad for those purposes, I am at a loss to conceive for what purposes it was issued. You declare, you “think such conduct would be ill suited to the generous nature of the offers made, and unbecoming the dig nity of the King and the State which makes them,” but you do not scruple, at the same instant, to act diametrically contrary to your declaration “amply made known.” By your conduct you clearly ad vise us to place no confidence in what you say, and yet you go on proclaiming.
