October 24, 1778 109 threatens highly, when he thinks he has power in his hands to make his threats good, and comes thereafter to cajole with soft promises of good treatment, when that power is gone; one must divest him self of common sense, if he believe that that man’s mind is really changed for the better, and does not ascribe the change of his man ner of treating with us, to the change of his fortune.” Such were the sentiments of the people of England upon King James’s declaration: They are my sentiments upon the present of fers of Great Britain; and I believe your Excellencies are convinced, they are the sentiments upon the same subject, of that part of the inhabitants of America, who have broken the force of Britain, and are able to maintain the independence of their country. Judge then of the contempt with which we receive your threats, that if we persist in our independence, the question with you is, “how far Great-Britain may by every means in her power destroy” America. Such a declaration on your part, does no honor to your masters, to your nation, or to yourselves. It is an outrage upon humanity. It is a proof of a narrow and base mind. But your Excellencies will do well to foresee, that in case your threat shall be begun to be carried into execution, that then it will be a question with us, how far we shall hold General Burgoyne’s army responsible for the effects of your fury. I warn you, that as you burn our towns, so shall I urge to deci mate your legions. I say thus much, rather to shew you that we have the means of retaliation in our hands, than because I apprehend you will drive us into such a measure. You have all along endeavoured to bully us; an old custom is not easily laid aside, and therefore you continue to threaten. God has raised us to independence, and we rest assured that Britain cannot deprive us of it. You have tried the art of persuasion, and Governor Johnstone has attempted the art of corruption, to induce us to relinquish our independence. Your arts have failed, your force has failed, and we are not yet, and I trust never shall be quite so mad as to compliment Great-Britain with our obedience. W.H.D. 3 MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, October 29, 1778. 1 The British peace commissioners’ October 3 “Manifesto and Proclamation,” in which they appealed to the people and state legislatures of the United States to accept British peace terms, had been printed in the October 15 issue of the Pennsyl vania Packet. For the commissioners’ own explanation of its provenance, see their October 15 letter to Lord George Germain in Davies, Documents of the American Revolution, 15:218-19. 2 See Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners, June 17, July 3, and September 4, 1778. • For a discussion of the newspaper letters Drayton wrote to the British peace commissioners using his initials as a pseudonym, see Drayton to the Carlisle Com missioners, June 17, 1778, note 1.
