110 October 24, 1778 Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 24. 1778 A fleet from New York Consisting of 16 Ships of the line & up wards of 100 Transports sailed a few days [ago] with Troops & heavy Cannon on bord, their destination is at present a Secret. Congress are much Alarmed fearing they may intend for the Southward (Chas. Town) which has induced them to Call upon No. Carolina for a greater body of men than I suppose can be raised in time to prevent the Enemy’s Designs. Your Excellency will perceive it to be the de sire of Congress that you should put yourself at the head of the Troops from your State & should you be inclined to do so, have given you the rank & pay See of a Major Genl, in the Continental Army. Genl. Howe is ordered to head quarters, and Genl. Lincoln an Officer of great Military merit is Appointed to the Command in the Southern Department. I hope Your Excellency has long since received the 400,000 Dollars for Bounty pay fee of the last levies. 150,000 more will in a few days be sent to Mr. Wm. Blount 1 for the use of the Troops to be sent to So. Carolina where One Million more will be sent for the expense of this Expedition. Genl. Washington apprehensive that the enemy may intend an Attack upon Boston, has Ordered on Genl. Gates to the eastward with a large detachment from the main Army. Should the Enemy Appear on that Coast, I suppose all New England will be in Motion. Some among us think this fleet has sailed either for Europe or the W India Islands. Whether N York & R Island will be evacu ated by the Enemy this fall, seems at present very doubtful. The Newspapers inclosed will give you an Opportunity of forming a Conjecture of the Enemy’s designs, you will find the last Speech and Dying words of the British Commissioners, with the Comments upon it by Common Sense. 2 I beg Your excellency will not take amiss, by Once more reminding you of the Necessity of sending on as soon as possible The State Account against the Continent. The Charge against No. Carolina in the Treasury Books is 1,075,543 29/90 dollars, when Other States which have had ten times the money expended in them do not stand Chargable with more than 500,000 Dollars. And this entirely Owing to their having a Military Chest established within them fe con stantly supplied out of the Treasury of the Continent, exclusive of Commissaries, Quarter Masters fee who never Called upon the State for Money. 27. Octr. Since writing the Above & meeting with no Opportunity of sending it forward but by Post, I have Inclosed a paper of this date. It is now believed the Enemy really intend to Evacuate N York.
