118 October 25, 1778 in America too late to influence Congress’ decision to make such an appointment. "The Truth is,” he had explained, “in my humble Opinion, our System is wrong in many Particulars. I. In having three Commissioners at this Court. One in the Character of Envoy is enough. At present each of the Three is considered in the Character of a Public Minister; a Minister Plenipotentiary, which lays him under an absolute Necessity of living up to this Character. Whereas one alone would be obliged to no greater Expence, and would be quite sufficient for all the Business of a Public Minister. 2. In Leaving the Salaries of these Ministers at an Uncertainty. You will never be able to obtain a satisfactory Account, of the public Monies, while this System continues. It is a Temptation to live at too great an Expence, and Gentlemen will feel an Aversion to demanding a rigorous Account. 3. In blending the Business of a public Minister with that of a Commercial Agent. The Businesses of various departments, are by this means so blended and the public and private Expences so confounded with each other, that I am sure no Satisfaction can ever be given to the Public, of the disposition of their Interests and I am very confident that Jealousies and Suspicions will hereafter arise against the Characters of Gentle men, who may perhaps have Acted with perfect Integrity and the fairest Intentions for the public Good. "My Idea is this, seperate the Offices of Public Ministers from those of commer cial Agents. . . . Recall, or send to some other Court, all the Public Ministers but one, at this Court. Determine with Precision, the Sum that shall be allowed to the remaining one, for his Expences and for his Salary, i.e. for his Time, Risque, Trouble &c., and when this is done see that he receives no more than his allowance. "The Inconveniences arising from the Multiplicity of Ministers and the Compli cations of Businesses are infinite.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 4:107-8. 3 That is, John Sullivan. * Adams had also written the following brief letter introducing Lafayette to friends in Boston the preceding day. As he endorsed his draft of it “to Mr. P & C,” Samuel probably sent copies of the letter to his regular correspondents Samuel Cooper and John Pitts. "The Marquis De la Fayette does me the Honor of taking the Care of this Letter. His disinterested Friendship to Mankind, his particular Attachment to our Country and his Zeal, Activity and Bravery in its Service are so well known to you that I flatter my self I cannot gratify you more than by introducing him to your Acquaintance.” Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Henry Laurens to William Alexander My Lord, Philadelphia, 25th October 1778. Your favor of the 21st was brought to me late last Evening, the bearer of it expresses some anxiety to return without delay, & as I shall not have an opportunity for laying it before Congress till to morrow ten oClock I think it best to indulge him. 1 When Congress lay their commands on me Your Lordship shall be informed—in the mean time I cannot refrain from expression my admiration of the Liberality & obedience, displayed in the conduct of those persons who had captured Mrs. Yards Merchandize, by their gentle surrender of them. 2 I have the honor to be, With great Respect &: Esteem, My Lord, Your Lordship’s, Obedient & most humble servt. Henry Laurens, President of Congress.
