October 25, 1778 121 down a Rule we may be blamed for departing from it, if any other Persons should conceive themselves affected by the Alteration. There will be Time to hear from you again before Publication, so that if our Idea is wrong you can set us right. The Case of the eldest Lieutenant (when a Captain has taken the Captain Liutenancy) having the Rank of Capt. Lieutenant appears so reasonable that we shall recommend it 8c have no Doubt it will be adopted. I was in Hopes that Mentges’s 8c Murray’s Promotion had been got over, after being stirrd while we were with you 8c seemingly submitted to by all except Mr. Lenox who resigned 8c came away. But since it is otherwise I wish you would converse with his Excelly. upon the Sub ject. I well remember that conceiving Mentgez to have got extrava gant Promotion I had conceived a Design of raising up some of the Captains whom he had displaced, but the General represents that upon the Formation of the new Army in 1776 there was no fixed Rule of Promotion 8c that any Retrospect so as to deprive an Officer of Rank actually given him at that Time (however, improperly) would unsettle the whole Line of the Continent 8c introduce endless Con fusion, I gave up my Sentiments 8c concluded it must be submitted to as an Evil. However if it can be rectified with the Generals Concur rence, by submitting the Claim to a Board of Officers I am sure the Committee will concur in any Alteration, but if it cannot be had without real 8c essential Injury to the Service, I trust the Gentlemen have more Virtue, 8c good Sense than to insist upon it. The Case of the Gentlemen who by the Fortune of War have become Prisoners 8c now wish to serve again is one in which the In terests of Humanity 8c Justice are deeply interested 8c I must frankly acknowledge that I do not see how we can exclude them without a manifest Violation of the plainest Rules of Honour 8c Gratitude. There are many of them who having no Title to enter into any particular Regiment must be admitted somewhere in the Line, or you tell them in the same Instt., that they shall come in, but there is no Place for them, which amounts to telling them they shall not come in at all. If you put them upon the Regiments other than the 1st, 2d, 3d 8c 5th, & 7th, they will complain of it as an Act of Injustice. It would be cruel to say these Officers have not fought 8: suffered equally with those who have not been captured—they turn’d out as early in the Cause, if not more so, 8c now to discard them utterly, appears to me so great a Hardship that I know not how to think of it much more consent to it, 8c I hope the Gentlemen who are affected so much by it, will on this Occasion apply the Golden Rule—change Places for a Moment 8c think how they would like to be thus re warded for a faithful 8c honourable Discharge of their Duty. We have recommended the Arrangement to Congress on this Principle previ-
