126 October 26, 1778 Establishment. Besides this I considered myself in some Degree as an Advocate for the Army. I loved them from an Acquaintance with some Individuals and for the Sufferings which as a Body they had bravely and patiently endured; and therefore I could not but suffer when I found them taking Steps which In my Opinion cannot do them Honor and which incapacitated me from urging as I otherwise should have done every Redress in our Power to their Grievances. But what chiefly affected me was that this Meeting of Delegates from Brigades in a Mixture of civil and military Capacity carries with it the Air of deeper Design than I believe is in the Bosoms of those who were immediately concerned. It was by Proceedures such as these that the good Fairfax made Way for a crafty Cromwell and that he dis missed a tedious Wrangling Parliament and established a military Despotism. It is a melancholy Evil that when once Faction takes Possession of the human Heart men are hurried into Extremes which make considerate People tremble. I will not do your Army the In justice even to permit a Thought that they wish to get Rid of their General. But Sir their and your and our Enemies do not want the Confidence to say so and indeed to say they can prove it and to at tempt that Proof from the Manner of proving (Agitating as they term it); the Petition in Question. Certainly could such Ideas be inculcated it would answer th[eir] Views. It would also answer their Views to instill into the Army a Distrust of Congress and therefore I doubt not but the Enemies of both are assiduous in this Business. I find also the British commissioners are so barefaced as to hold out the Bait of Promotion in the Royal Army to such as will fall in with their De signs and doubtless a peculiar Portion of their Bounty will be dis posed to those who shall sow the seeds of Dissention in an Army which as they cannot conquer it is their only Resource to divide. Thinking on this Subject as I do it did and does appear to me my Duty as a good Citizen thoroughly to discountenance every Measure of this Kind particularly when it is ushered as the first Mention of this Affair was to me by an Observation that the Army had it in their Power to do themselves Justice. It makes me unhappy to learn that such Discourse prevails. I am certain those who use it have no Design but they should consider that it affords Matter for the Design of others to work upon. It has not made any serious Impression I believe on the Mind of those whose opinions have real Weight because it is considered as one of those light Expressions which flow from the Luxuriance of Imagination. Little do those who say such things know the Difficulties of subsisting an Army. The Marquis will hand you a Plan &ca on which I shall say Noth ing because I have already had a great Deal of Trouble with it and he can say more than I could write in a Week and you know more of the Subject than all of us. 3
