October 26, 1778 127 We have no News. Let me then tell you what has the Merit of Truth if not the Charms of Novelty. That I am Dear General, very sincerely yours, Gouv Morris [P.S.] General Lee’s Affair hangs by the Eye Lids. We spent one Day upon it without even touching on the Merits. The Debate was in what Manner to proceed to a Decission. Some contended for the Pro priety of resolving simply to approve or disapprove of the Sentence. Others for entering into the Consideration of the Charges and the Evidence on them separately without however making an Entry on the Minutes. A third for doing this and making the Entries. This as the most systematic Method I supported for truly I know not how to determine in the Lump. Granting him guilty of all the Charges it is too light a Punishment. And if he is not guilty in the Opinion of Congress of any one there would be an Injustice in not declaring their Opinion. Conway hath again applied for a Certificate of his good Services and I have again opposed the Grant of it. His Letter lies on the Table. 4 Again my Friend Adieu. Pray Excuse me to Generals Greene and Schuyler for not Writing by this Opportunity. Upon my Honor I have so many Things to do that I am much distrait. Tell Genl. Schuyler however that I shall build if possible the Decission of his Business on that of Genl. Lee. You must contrive some means of quartering your Cavalry at a Dis tance from the Army. It seems to me all the poor Horses should be turned into good Pastures. Could not some Expedition be carried on agt. the Indians. Suppose for Instance Count Pulaski were sent to charge [. . .] them. It might indeed cost him his Night Cap. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s October 4 letter to Morris, in which he acknowledged a Septem ber 8 letter from Morris (which has not been found), is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:21-23. 2 The most recent efforts of the Committee of Arrangement to settle the rank of officers had soured morale and produced four protest memorials, which were pre pared at meetings of officers held on September 9 and 12 and dated September 13, 1778. These memorials, differing only in the signatures affixed to them, were forwarded to Congress in a September 22 letter from Cols. William Davies, Daniel Morgan, and Otho Williams. Among the grievances specifically cited, the officers seemed especially concerned over the exclusion of supernumerary officers through recently proposed rearrangements in the Continental battalions, the failure of Con gress to adopt a half-pay plan, and continued neglect of their clothing and medical care. The fact that Congress did not take up the memorials until October 20—at which time they were ordered “To lie on the table, until Congress have fully considered and determined on the report of the committee of arrangement”—is explained by the fact that they were apparently mislaid for a time before they were presented to President Laurens. The details of this misadventure are not known, but some of the circumstances involved in the delay can be seen in Laurens’ endorsement of
