128 October 26, 1778 the covering letter: “Cols. Morgan, Williams and Davies. Camp 22 Septr 1778. D[elivere]d me with other Papers by Mr. Griffin as from Mr. Harvie who had left them in his hands. In Cong. 19 Octob 1778.” See PCC, item 41, 7:191-205; JCC, 12:1025-26; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:22-23. Additional informa tion on the officers’ protest is also contained in the record of their September 9 and 12 meetings (signed “Dan. Morgan, Prest., Otho H. Williams, clerk”), preserved in the Gilmore Papers, MdHi, and in Maj. John Taylor’s October 9, 1778, letter to Gen. William Woodford, in the Peter Force Collection, DLC. 3 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Washington, October 27, 1778. ‘See JCC, 12:1020. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia October 27th 1778 In Reading the Several letters & other Publications of the Brittish Commisrs, you will observe that they are Constantly Endeavouring to make people on both Sides the water, Believe, That Congress Have Exceeded their powers in Rejecting their (the Commisionrs) offers of Reconcilliation Sc Entering into an Alliance with France; and that in both of these instances The Congress had acted Contrary to the Sentiments of their Constituents. Whither they are really De ceived by the Tory accounts they Receive from the Several States, Or whither they mean to Deceive others, I am not Certain; But of this I am Certain, that So long as Brittain has the Smallest hope Remaining of these States Submitting again to her Domination, She will never Recognize our Independance & Consequently the war must Continue. It is therefore our interest to Convince Brittain & Every Body else, that the French Alliance and the Rejection of the Brittish Commisrs offers of Reconcilliation are universally approved of by these States: For this purpose I Should think it would be proper for the legis latures of the Several States in this union (as of their own motion without the advice of Congress) to pass Resolves Signifying their Approbation of those measures: And in order effectually to Cut off All their pretences for applying to individual States or persons, To Resolve that the Congress of the united States are Solely vested with power on our part for Contracting foreign Alliances, for making &: Conducting war & for Restoring peace, and that They & They only have full power for making peace with Brittain on the principles of our absolute Independance & not other wise; and that these States Repose Entire Confidence in them for those purposes. If the Several States would carefully Draw up & unanimously pass Such Resolves, publish them to the world in the public newspapers and Send attested Copies to their Delegates in Congress to be made use of as occasion might Require, I am persuaded that it would effec tually cut off all the hopes our Enemies may Still Entertain of their
