140 October 28, 1778 Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Adams In Committee for foreign Affairs Sir, Philada. Octr. 28th, 1778. While we officially communicate to you the inclosed Resolve, 1 the Foundation of which you can not remain a Stranger to, we must entreat you to be assiduous in sending, to those Commissioners who have left France and gone to the Courts for which they were respec tively appointed, all the American Intelligence, which you have greater opportunity than they to receive from hence, particularly to Mr. Izard &: Mr. Wm. Lee. We do not often send more than one Set of gazettes by one Opportunity, and we hear of several vessels which have miscarried. Congress must & will speedily determine upon the general Arrange ment of their foreign Affairs. This is become, so far as relates to you, peculiarly necessary upon a new Commission being sent to Dr. Franklin. In the mean Time we hope you will exercise your whole extensive Abilities on the Subject of our Finances. 2 The Doctor will communicate to you our Situation in that Regard. To the Gazettes and to Conversation with the Marqs. Dela Fayette we must refer you for what relates to our Enemies; and close with our most cordial Wishes to your Happiness, Sir, Your affectionate Friends, Richard Henry Lee James Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell and Lee. 1 For Congress’ October 22 resolve directing the representatives of the United States at the various courts in Europe to cultivate "harmony and good understand ing” among themselves, see JCC, 12:1053-54. 2 Congress did not appoint Adams to another post until after he returned to the United States in August 1779. The following month he was appointed “minister plenipotentiary for negotiating a treaty of peace and a treaty of commerce with Great Britain.” JCC, 15:1113. The “subject of our finances” was detailed in a separate instruction that was sent to Franklin, for which see the next entry. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin In Committee for foreign Affairs Honorable Sir, Philada. Octr. 28th, 1778. As the Marqs. Dela Fayette will deliver this, we refer you to his Conversation in addition to the Gazettes for an Account of the Move ments of the Enemy. He will doubtless gain some further Knowl edge of them before he leaves Boston than what we are now pos-
