146 October 29, 1778 Congress appointed a committee "to investigate the truth of this information” and ordered President Laurens to write to the Massachusetts Council for assistance. See JCC, 12:1033, J065; and Laurens’ letters to John Beatty, October 22, and to the Massachusetts Council, October 29, 1778. 3 This day Laurens also wrote the following letter to “Captain Josiah Stoddard of the Light Dragoons at Camp,” for which see JCC, 12:1066-67; and PCC, item 13, 2:138. “I had the honor of presenting Your Letter of the 20th Instant to Congress, in answer to which I am directed to transmit an Act of Congress of the 27th Instant for granting a compensation to Officers of the Light Dragoons for the extraordinary expence of their equipment, which Act you will receive under this Cover.” Henry Laurens to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia, 29th October 1778. I had the honor of writing to you the 16th Inst by Brown. 1 Congress having been repeatedly informed that Officers of the Convention Troops had contrary to their Orders been permitted to go within the Enemy’s lines in order to Negotiate parol Exchanges, or barely on parol, & that such indulgences had been obtained by Gold, have directed me to request the Honorable the Council of Massachusets will be pleased to cause an inquiry to be made respect ing such irregular proceedings. Lord Balcarras one of the said Convention was a few days ago actually in New York attempting a Parol Exchange & it has been said, that he paid one thousand Guineas for a Permit. This however true or groundless is alarming. Inclosed herein Your Honor will receive an Act of Congress of the 27th Inst, authorizing the present Address. 2 I am with the highest Esteem & Respect, Honorable sir, Your most obedient & most humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: "The Honorable Jeremiah Powell Esquire, President of Council, Massachusets’ Bay.” 1 See Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., October 16, 1778, note 3. 2 See preceding entry, note 2. Henry Laurens to the Chevalier de Tousard Sir. Philadelphia 29th October [1778] I have the honor of transmitting within this Cover an Act of Con gress of the 27th Instant for promoting you to the Rank of Lieu tenant Colonel in the American Army by Brevet & for granting you a Pension of thirty Dollars per Month during your life in acknowl edgement of your Merit 8c in consideration of your misfortune in the
