October 29, 1778 147 loss of a Right Arm in the late Action at Rhode Island—the display of your Courage 8c Gallantry upon that occasion has gained you the highest applause 8c insured immortal honor to your Name. 1 Annexed to the Act you will receive the Brevet. I intreat you Sir, accept my best wishes 8c be assured that my Esteem 8c Regard for you do not bear exact date with the affair at Rhode Island; Your Martial Spirit, your military talents, your serv ices in the American Army, were known to me long before that event. I shall ever speak of them with pleasure 8c be one of your admirers. In these sentiments I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient 8c most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. 2 RC (PHi: Tousard-Stocker Collection). LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). RC damaged; missing words supplied from LB. Addressed: "Lieutenant Colonel Touzard, Providence.” 1 Anne-Louis, chevalier de Tousard (1749-1817), had come to America with the controversial Philippe Du Coudray in 1777, and was one of the few of his followers who remained in America and obtained a Continental commission after Coudray’s death. JCC, 8:606, 705, 9:877, 902-3. Congress was moved to grant Tousard this mark of recognition upon the recommendation of the marquis de Lafayette, for which see Lafayette, Letters (Idzerda), 2:197-98; and JCC, 12:1068. 3 At the foot of this document the following note, in the hand of Benjamin Franklin, appears: “Being well-acquainted with the Hand of Mr. President Laurens, I do hereby certify that this letter is all of his hand-writing, and therefore an authentic Paper. Given at Passy, this 21st Day of February 1779. B. Franklin, Plenipotentiary from the Congress to the Court of France.” Richard Henry Lee to John Adams My Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 29 1778 I am exceedingly happy to hear of your safe arrival, and I hope agreeable accommodations at Paris. At first, I doubt not, the splendid gaity of a magnificent Court, accorded not so well with the tem perate manners of a sober Republican. But use reconciles most things. It may soon happen that you be desired to visit Holland, where I believe they yet retain much of that simplicity of manners which first raised that people to greatness. Our finances want the support of a Loan in Europe. 81,500,000 of dollars with increasing demands as depreciation advances with emission, cannot be cured by the slow working of Taxes. The latter is, I believe, deeply gone into by all the States. I have seen your letter to our common friend Mr. S. Adams, and do most thoroughly accord with you in sentiments. 1 The battle of Monmouth in June last, and the subsequent arrival of Count d’Estaing has kept our enemies in pretty close quarters this Cam-
