October 30, 1778 149 By the CONGRESS of the United States of A M E R I C A. i MANIFESTO. T HESE United Scares, having been driven to hoftilicies by the oppreflive and tyrannous nieafures of Greac-Bricain ; ha ving been compelled to commit the effential rights of man to thedecifion of arms; and having been at length forced to fhake off a yoke which had grown too burthenfome to bear, they declared them- felves free and independent- Confiding in the juftice of their caufe ; confiding in Him who difpofes of human events, although weak and unprovided, they fet the power of their enemies at de fiance. In this confidence they have continued, through the various fortune of three bloody campaigns, unawed by the power, uniubdued by the barbarity of their foes. Their virtuous citizens have born without repining, the lot’s of many things which make life defircable. Their brave troops have patiently endured the hardships and dangers of a fituation, fruitful in both beyond former example. The Congrefs, confidering themfelves bound to love their enemies, as children of that Being who is equally the Father of all; and defirous, fince they could not pre vent, at leaft to alleviate the calamities of war, have ftudied to fparc thole who were in arms againft them, and to lighten the chains of captivity. The condud of thole ferving under the King of Great-Bt itain hath, with fome few exceptions, been diametrically oppofite. They have laid wafte the open country, burned the defencelefs villages, and butchered the citizens of America. Their prifons have been th flaughfer-houfes of her Gldiers, their (hips of herfeamen, and the fc- vereft injuries have been aggravated by the grofleft infult. Foiled in their vain attempt to fubjugate the unconquerable fpirit of freedom, they have meanly availed the Reprefentauves of America with bribes, with deceit and the fervility of adulation. They have made a mock of humanity, by the wanton deftruc- tton of men: They have made a mock ot religion, by impious appeals to God whilft in the violation of his facred commands : They have made a mock even of reafon it- felf, by endeavouring to prove, that the liberty and happinefs ot America could fafe- ly be entcufted to theft who have fold their own, unawed bv the fenfe of virtue or of fhame. Treated .with the contempt which fuch conduct deferved, they have applied to in dividuals : They have lolicited them to Freak the bonds of allegiance, and imbrue their fouls with the blackeft of crimes : But fearing that none could be found through thefe United States, equal to the wickednefs of their purpofe, to influence weak minds they have threatened more wide devaftation. While the fhadow of hope remained, that our enemies could be taught by our ex ample to refpeft thofe laws which are held facred among civilized nations, and to comply with the didates of a religion which they pretend in common w ith us to be lieve and to revere, they have been left to the influence of that religion, and that ex ample. But fince their ino rrigible dilpofitions cannot be touched by kindnefs and compaffion. it becomes ^ur duty by other means to vindicate the rights of humanity. We therefore, the Congrcls ot the United States of America, DO folemly declare and prot laim, 1 hat if our enemies pre fume to execute their threats, or perfift in their prefent career ofbsrharity, we will take fuch exemplary vengeance asfhall deter others from a like conduit. We appeal to that God w ho fearcheth ihe hearts of men for the rectitude of our intentions. And in his holy prefence we oechre. That as we are not moved by any light and hxfty fuggeftions of angcror revenge, L through every poflible change ot fortune we will adhere tothis our determination. 4 - } I I DONE in Congrefs, by unanimous coif ent, tbe Thirtieth day of OSober, One Tboufand Seven Hundred and Seventy-eight. HENRY LAURENS, President. j ^tte/l. CHARLES THOMSON, Secretary, 1 Congress’ “Manifesto,” October 30, 1778
