160 November 1, 1778 Virginia Delegates to George Bryan Sir, Copy. Philadelphia, Novr. 1st. 1778. The Subject of the enclosed Letter we conceive demands your serious Attention; and we flatter ourselves that we need not suggest to you the Propriety of taking some immediate Step, in Conjunction with the Governor of Virginia, to restore the Harmony of the States of Virginia & Pennsylvania, or at least to prevent the Consequences likely to ensue from this Occasion. We hope that all Disputes of this Nature may be amicably settled by you & the Governor of Virginia, and that it will be unnecessary to trouble Congress upon this Subject. With this View we shall write to the Governor of Virginia, 1 giving him an Account of the Information we have received, and of our Proceedings thereon. We have the Honor to be &c, Sign’d, Meriwether Smith Richd. Henry Lee Tr (MH-H: bms Am 1649.5). In the hand of Meriwether Smith. Addressed: “His Excellency George Brian, Vice-President of the Council, Pennsylvania.” 1 For this communication to "the Governor of Viriginia” and "the enclosed Letter” mentioned above, see Meriwether Smith to Patrick Henry, November 4, 1778, note 1. Richard Henry Lee to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Novemr. 2nd, 1778. I am no Stranger to the great merit of your late worthy son Mr. Commissary General Trumbull, and my endeavours have not been wanting to procure for his family that justice which is eminently due to him. As Chairman of the Committee to whom your letter and the Memorial of Mr. Hoskins were committed, 1 I have made a Report which appeared to the Committee well fitted to do justice to the Representatives of Col. Trumbull and to produce as speedy a settle ment of this business, as the nature of the thing will admit of. A short day is fixed for determining on this Report—and from the reasonableness of it I conclude it will be agreed to. My family affairs calling me immediately away, I set out for Virginia tomorrow but there are not wanting many worthy gentlemen who will press the Report to a speedy determination. I am with great respect & esteem, Sir, Your Most Obedt. & very humble Servt, Richard H. Lee Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 For Governor Trumbull’s October 6 letter to Congress and William Hoskins’
