164 November 3, 1778 Enemy will divide a force already unable to keep the open field, or that they will forego their present possessions for the purpose of making an attempt on one much less important to them. To do the first would be to make a certain sacrifice of a part of their army, and to do the latter would be egregious folly. In short Sir, I believe it will end in mere smoke. We have here the very disagreeable news that Col. Baylor’s Regiment of Light Horse was surprised near Hackensack, forty of them put to the sword and the most taken. The Col. himself and most of his offi cers are supposed to be among the slain. In a Northern paper which I received yesterday from some persons who I believe have a charge of money for our State and Georgia, mentions our engagement between Admiral Keppel, and the Brest fleet, in which the latter had the advantage, but both were obliged to put back to refit. Nothing else of any importance is stirring here.” N. C. State Records, 13:244-45. The “various packages” mentioned in the first paragraph undoubtedly contained copies of the British peace commissioners’ October 3 manifesto. The "resolutions” on South Carolina mentioned in the third paragraph were those passed by Congress on September 25, 1778. JCC, 12:949-51. Henry Laurens to Casimir Pulaski Sir 3d November [1778] I had yesterday the honor of presenting to Congress your Letter of the 27th October. 1 Had the Gentleman who alarm’d you with an history of Complaints delivered my sentiments in terms which I meant to convey them to him you would have felt no chagrin but rather satisfaction on that account; a detail of particulars at this time would be unnecessary and troublesome. Numerous complaints it is true have been heard from various Persons, of irregular and improper conduct of the Legion, but none since that which took its rise in Germantown have been laid before Congress, therefore such do not amount to a charge. I laboured to explain to the Gentleman abovementiond that neither Congress nor any of its Members as far as I had learnt, im puted blame or censure to Count Pulaski, and that from the regard I had for him it made me unhappy to hear that he was censured any where for the disorderly behavior of his Men, or the unwarrantable menaces of any of his Officers, and I must impute that Gentleman’s deficiency in the information which he gave, to his imperfect under standing in the English Tongue, altho in justice to myself I must observe I took some pains to impress upon his Mind the high sense I entertained of Count Pulaski’s Merits. Your Letter abovementiond lies before the Board of War, where I presume this of the 26th respecting Monsieur Molion now before me will be transmitted; 2 when a Report from that Board comes before the House, you will be further informed. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13).
