November 5, 1778 171 the Governor of this State subject to the Perusal of the Virginia Dele gates at Congress. Col. Campbell complains of the Conduct of some Officers belonging to the State of Pennsylvania, which disturbs the Peace of that Part of the State in which he resides and is likely to produce b[l]oody Effects. I doubt not but that he has given you particular Information of all the Proceedings. On the Receipt of the Letter, (Col. Rd. H. Lee being here,) we thought it best to send it to the Vice-President of the Council, & wrote the inclosed Letter to him. 2 Not having received any Answer thereto, I have only to refer you to it, & hope that you will be able speedily to put an End to those Disputes. I have the honor to be, Sir, Yr. most obedt. Servt. Meriwether Smith RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Col. Campbell’s letter has not been found, but a reference to it by the Pennsyl vania Council identifies it as “from John Campbell, Esquire, an agent of Virginia, at Pittsburg, dated the 16th of October past.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:79. The issue raised by Campbell was the long-standing controversy over the western Pennsyl vania-Virginia boundary. This renewal of the dispute led to the appointment of commissioners by the two states who met the following August at Baltimore, where agreement was finally reached on the extension of “Mason’s and Dixon’s line due west five degrees of longitude, to be computed from the river Delaware.” For infor mation on this settlement of the Pennsylvania-Virginia boundary, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:77-78. 2 See Virginia Delegates to George Bryan, November 1, 1778. Committee of Congress to John Connolly Thursday 12 o’clock. [November 5? 1778] The committee appointed to take into consideration the applica tion of Lieutenant Colonel Connolly, request that gentleman will inform them of his reasons for not producing and pleading his com mission, at the time he was first taken, and for a considerable time afterwards. 1 MS not found; reprinted from PMHB, 13 (July 1889): 158-59. The text of this letter is taken from Connolly’s “narrative” of his captivity, which covered the period October 1775 to October 1780. Although the letter is undated, the committee apparently wrote it sometime after Connolly had written to Congress on October 12 but before Congress adopted a lengthy resolution concerning his case on Novem ber 12, 1778. Although it is dated only “Thursday 12 o’clock,” Connolly’s “narra tive” suggests that this query was sent to him after the committee’s study of his case was well under way and after he had “a personal audience” with the com-
