172 November 5, 1778 mittee. Therefore November 5, rather than one of the Thursdays falling in Octo ber, has been suggested as the most likely date of its composition. 1 Connolly, who had been an American prisoner since his capture in October 1775, had been free on parole briefly in August 1778 after Congress returned to Philadelphia from York, Pa. Thus when Commissary of Prisoners John Beatty notified him that he was to be returned to confinement he sought to avoid reim prisonment and appealed to Congress to be granted regular prisoner-of-war status so that his exchange could be negotiated. Connolly’s “application” was referred to a committee consisting of William Duer, Henry Marchant, and John Witherspoon, who had previously been appointed to take into consideration a number of prisoner issues raised by Beatty. According to Connolly’s own account of his rela tions with the committee, he demanded and was granted a “personal audience . . . in order to know wherefore I was refused to be exchanged.” Of this “audience” he gave the following account: “For once I was gratified, and brought before a com mittee, where having briefly recapitulated my causes of complaint, the chairman [doubtless William Duer] replied to the following purport: "That it had been for some time past his opinion, which he had not scrupled to communicate to Congress, that I should be kept in close custody, until Sir John Johnson was delivered up to them, who, he asserted, had broken his sacred parole given to General Scuyler, and joined the enemy; since which time he had been committing ravages upon the northern frontiers, with a body of light troops and Indians, as he supposed I intended to do. “To this I answered, that a parole or honorary obligation, I presumed, was of modern date, calculated to alleviate the horrors of war; that no Gentleman could be answerable for any but himself; that I had been admitted to my parole above a year ago, when my conduct was irreproachable, and that I was again, without the least cause on my part, thrown into prison, and there continued for another year; that much had been said about the infraction of my parole, which I utterly denied to have been the case. “To this they replied, I certainly had not adhered to the spirit of it, for that I had spoken against their proceedings, and had frequently attempted to turn them into ridicule. . . . "The final objection they made to my exchange, turned upon the impropriety of my being considered as a prisoner of war. They said, I had not been taken at the head of any armed troops, but privately making my way through the country; and one of them asserted, I might be considered as amenable to law martial, as a spy; but at the same time he observed, there was no intention of treating me as such. “The committee at length promised to consider and report my case to Congress, and as my health was so exceedingly and visibly impaired, gave me an intimation, that if I were not exchanged, I should be enlarged on parole. I was then re-con ducted to prison.” The note from the committee printed here, Connolly went on to explain, "was sent me a few days after the above hearing from the committee.” In response to the committee’s query into his reasons “for not producing and pleading his commission,” Connolly replied that Congress had known of his com mission since 1775, because it was among the papers that were taken from him at the time of his capture. The committee apparently conceded the force of this ex planation, for the reference to Connolly’s failure to “produce or plead any com mission under the King of Great Britain” contained in the committee’s lengthy report to Congress was deleted when it was entered on the journals on November 12. See ]CC, 12:1126. For this report, and a number of documents and references related to this entire episode, see JCC, 12:909, 927-28, 949, 995, 1102-3, 1109, 1125-29; PCC, item 42, 2:52-55; item 78, 5:201-2, 213-20, 229-32, 241-42, 14:247-50; item 142, 2:159-60;
