178 November 5, 1778 From General Washington’s letter this minute read it appears that the enemy intend to evacuate New York soon, 3 a very large number of the Troops having gone on board Transports. 4 The Delegates from No. Carolina intend to write to your Excel lency soon, an official letter, they only wait the determination of Congress relative to a matter of a public nature, which I expect will be in a day or two. 5 I have the honor to be with great respect, Your Excellencys Mo. ob. Servt. John Penn RC (NjR: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1972). Tr (Nc-Ar). RC incomplete; missing part supplied from Tr. ’See JCC, 12:1101. 2 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris, May 14, 1778, note 2. 2 Remainder of text taken from Tr. ‘See JCC, 12:1102; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:190-91. 6 Penn is undoubtedly referring to the plan for an expedition against East Florida that Gen. Robert Howe proposed in a letter Congress read on November 2 and that the delegates approved the same day. See JCC, 12:1091; Cornelius Harnett to Caswell, November 10, note 1; and Henry Laurens to Caswell, November 14, 1778, note 2. William Duer to William Alexander My dear Lord, Phila. Novr. 6th. 1778 Mr. Sami. Curson Junr. Son of Mr. Curson whom you must have known in New York has desired me to request your Permission to meet his Brother in Law Mr. Seton upon the Lines in Case the Enemy will permit him to come out. This Young Gentleman, Since the Commencement of the War, has been settled at St. Eustatius from which Place he has sent very Con siderable Supplies of Arms, Ammunition &ca. to Congress, and has manifested an Unequivocal Attachment to our Cause. 1 His long Ab sence from his near Relations and his Apprehension that some of them may quit New York with the Enemy, before he has an Oppor tunity of seeing, or Enquiring particularly after them, makes his [him] Anxious for this Interview. You will therefore gratify an amiable Young Gentleman, and oblige a Friend in complying with this Request—which I suppose will not be inconsistent with your Line of Duty. As I have resigned my Seat in Congress, and Expect daily a Notifi cation on the Part of the State of the new Delegation, I shall as soon it is received measure my Steps homewards, and on my Way spend three or four Weeks with my Friends in New Jersey. 2 I know it will give you pleasure to find that by the taking of Dominica from the French the most Considerable Part of my Fortune wh. was in great
