182 November 6, 1778 request that Orders may be given for the releasment of the said Vessel as the provisions are exceedingly wanted for the use of the Army and Navy at the Eastward. 1 There is also a vessel at Baltimore a Sloop called the Swan under the Care of our agent afsd. which we have Ordered to be laded with flour from the Public Stores Sc for which we request you will grant permission. 2 We have the Honor to be, Your Excellencys obedt servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 For the Maryland council’s response to this request, which on November 16 directed Benjamin Nicholson, the judge of the Maryland Court of Admiralty, to delay the sale of the Friendship until it could review the proceedings of the case, see Md. Archives, 21:239. 3 The Marine Committee also wrote the following letter this day to William Smith: "We have received your Letter of the 31st ultimo in consequence of which we have this day wrote to the Governor & Council of your State on the subject of the seizure of the Sloop Friendship, which we expect will procure her releasement, but least that should fail we shall lay your Letter with a state of the affair before Congress and get their determination thereon. “We have wrote for permission to lade the Swan and doubt not the same will be granted.” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:24. Samuel Holten’s Diary [November 7, 1778] 1 7. Saturday. I received a number of Resolutions from our Court, one appointg. me a delegate from our State & some instructions, &c. 2 The weather is warm. MS (MDaAr). 1 Holten’s entries for the two preceding days contain the following information: “Thursday. Genl. Whipple came to board with us—& Mr. Kean dind with us. Friday. The delegates from the Massa. Bay dined with the president.” 3 On October 8 the Massachusetts General Court had elected Holten, Samuel Adams, Francis Dana, Timothy Edwards, Elbridge Gerry, John Hancock, and James Lovell delegates to Congress. The council then directed that at least four delegates must attend Congress at all times but specified that any three of them could act on behalf of the state. Massachusetts Council Records, October 8 and 15, 1778, DLC(ESR). Henry Laurens to William Alexander 7th November [1778] I troubled your Lordship with a few lines the 5th Instant by Mr. Jackson.
