190 November 9, 1778 RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 It seems clear that “your favor of the 7th of October” is actually Warren’s letter to Adams of October 25, which contains a postscript of the 27th. Not only has no October 7 letter been found, but Warren enclosed his resignation from the Eastern Navy Board, the subject of this paragraph, with his October 25-27 letter. Warren-Adams Letters, 2:59-62. For Adams’ successful effort to deter Warren from following through on his resignation, see Adams to Warren, October 20, 1778, note 3. 2 In the letter of resignation he had enclosed for Adams’ perusal, Warren had explained that he could now account for “a considerable part of the deficiencies” still outstanding from his unsettled paymaster general accounts. Col. Loammi Baldwin, Warren explained, “has paid into my hands 576 dollars which after long Enquiry he has been Able to Account for no other way than by his receiving it from my office by mistake.” Acting on a request from Warren, Congress subse quently directed the transfer of this sum to the accounts of the navy board of the eastern department. See JCC, 13:63, 72: and Warren-Adams Letters, 2:62-63. Henry Laurens to George Bryan Sir 9th November [1778] Inclosed with this I have the honor of transmitting you an Act of Congress of the 7th Instant for laying before the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania a Letter of David Franks dated the 18th of October last, and the minutes of the proceedings of Con gress thereon, together with the said Letter and Minutes. 1 I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See JCC, 12:1110-11; and Laurens to Washington, October 22, 1778, note 4. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen November 9th 1778 We have been favoured with yours of the 19th & 28th Ultimo the latter of which containing many important matters we shall take time fully to deliberate upon and will make it the subject of a future Letter. 1 Your reasons for leaving the Ranger at Portsmouth meets our intire approbation. We have already expressed our wishes for the Speedy equipment of all our vessels, and we doubt not your best exertions will be used for that purpose—if they can be got ready to sail in time the force will be greater than any we have yet been able to send out, and we have Sanguine expectations that something may be done of conse quence to make up for the bad success that hath hitherto attended our Navy. To enable you to go on with the business we now Send
