November 9, 1778 191 by the bearer hereof Mr. Jesse Brown 150,000 Dollars which we hope will be sufficient for some time. 2 You will give us timely information when more Money will be required which shall be supplied, having the fullest confidence that the business of your department will be conducted with the greatest (Economy. Pray inform the Marquise Delafayette that he is at Liberty to take such Gentlemen with him on board the frigate in which he is to take his passage to France as he may think proper, &: if agreeable to him particularly Lt. Colonel Duplessis who is desirous of taking a passage with him. We shall shortly write to you again and in the mean time are with great regard, Gentlemen, Your very hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The board’s October 28 letter to the Marine Committee, which discusses the readiness of Continental ships, the purchase of slops, the exchange of naval prison ers, and the need for funds, is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. For the committee’s “future Letter” responding to these issues see the Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, November 16, 1778. 2 Congress had made this appropriation on October 31. JCC, 12:1085. Daniel Roberdeau to Nathaniel Owings Kind Sir, Philada. Novr. 9th 1778 I have been unwearied in my Endeavours to serve your Interest and that of the other Gentlemen concerned with me, as was my duty, and could I do more, I should not beg[r]udge my labour, as I should not doubt it’s issuing in an ample reward to us all. You may yet depend on my utmost exertions, but be assured without the cooperation of both yourself and Mr. Cockey, one of you to be constantly at the Works, 1 until they are fairly put a going, and in the necessary sup plies of Provisions &c way without a vigorous cooperation of you both in so arduous a business, I plainly foresee they will come to noth ing, or the profits which would arise with ceconomy will be absorbed with Expence. I believe it is the loss of many thousands that Mr. Bedwell did not accept my first offer and superintend the building of the first furnace, but by every account he is now acting with great deligence, but he must be kept in his sphere and one of the Owners, at least, constantly employed in procuring live Stock, Wiskey, Flour &c fee &c and in seeing them transported, otherwise it is too obvious to need any argument to prove it that his being employed in any other way than in the Business more immediately committed to him, would be ruinous to our Scheme. A second furnace (a blast furnace) is building, or built by this time and [whether] it will not be ruined thro ignorance, as the first was, I cannot say, as Mr. Bedwell does not pretend to understand working one of that Construction, besides if
