200 November 10, 1778 P. S. I beg my Compliments to Mr. Jonathan Trumbull Junr. The Treasury I am told have informed him of his appointment to the Comptrollership, unanimously elected—Salary 4000 Dollars per Annum. 3 RC (CtHi: Trumbull Papers). 1 Trumbull’s October 5 letter to Laurens, as well as one of the sixth on the subject of Joseph Trumbull’s accounts, the principal topic of Laurens’ present letter, is in Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 2:273-74, 279-82. The original of the latter is in PCC, item 66, 1:414-17. 2 A reference to General Sullivan’s abortive expedition against Newport, in which both John Laurens and John Trumbull had played a part. 3 JCC, 12:1096. Committee of Congress to the States In Committee of Congress Sir Philadelphia 11th November 1778 The great & increasing Difficulties in the Quarter Masters 8c Com missary Generals Departments have induced Congress to adopt the Resolution of which we have the Honor to enclose you a Copy. 1 Among the measures immediately necessary for placing these matters on a proper Foundation is the acquiring of a knowledge of the proper Resources of these States. The Articles of consumption which we would most particularly be informed of are Flour, Wheat, Rye, Bar ley, Oats, Corn 8c Rice, Beef, Pork, Working Oxen 8c Horses, Cyder 8c Vinegar. The ignorance 8c the interests of Mankind, oppose so strongly our wishes in this respect, that after every Effort & every prudent precaution, our Information will perhaps be of far less im portance than could be wished. It is however our Duty to aim at it and we have no reason to doubt your Excellency’s Concurrence in the Steps necessary to attain what we have in view, especially when it is considered how readily your own good Sence will dictate the imprac ticability of continuing the war, at least of continuing it to advantage, while we remain Supremely ignorant of the supplies our Country is capable of affording. We have to entreat that your Excellency from your knowledge of the Productions of the several parts of your State, would appoint some proper persons in whose Industry 8c Secresy you can confide to make proper Lists through the Districts you shall severally allott to them of the Quantity 8c number of such of the Articles above named as are produced in it which may probably be over 8c above the necessary consumption of the Inhabitants, and also as nearly as possible the Quantity 8cc which they consume over and above their own production or of what they do not produce. We hope that these lists may be transmitted to us with all imaginable speed
