November 11, 1778 201 to the end that proper arrangements may immediately be made for the ensueing Campaign. Upon transmitting an Account of the Ex penses which may accrue in this Business, they shall immediately be paid. You will perceive Sir that every precaution should be taken to prevent this Object from transpiring, least as on many former Oc casions the Devoted Adherents of Lucre should make a gain of the Publick Distresses. We are respectfully Your Excellency’s Most Obedient 8c Humble Servts. Nathl. Scudder Gouv. Morris Wm. Whipple RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand, and signed by Morris, Scudder, and Whipple. This text is taken from the circular letter the committee addressed to Maryland governor Thomas Johnson. 1 See JCC, 12:1114-15. This committee was appointed on November 10 in re sponse to a November 6 letter from Quartermaster General Nathanael Greene (which has not been found). Declaring that “speedy and vigorous measures” were necessary “to regulate the commissary’s and quarter master’s departments,” Con gress thereupon appointed Gouverneur Morris, Nathaniel Scudder, and William Whipple to “be a committee to superintend” the two departments and directed “that they, or any two of them, be empowered to take such steps relating to the same as they shall think most [advantageous] for the public service.” Although it was not considered one of the standing committees of Congress, this committee continued to function as overseer of the commissary and quartermaster departments until November 25, 1779, when these duties were transferred to the Board of War. JCC, 15:1312. Because Morris, Scudder, and Whipple had also been appointed on November 5 to a committee with similar responsibilities (in response to a letter from Washington and an earlier one from Greene), it seems probable that they did not attempt to distinguish under which appointment they acted when subsequently performing their various duties. For the work of the committee to which they were first appointed, see Committee of Congress to Thomas Johnson, November 5, 1778. Committee of Congress to the States In Committee of Congress Sir Circular Philadelphia 11th November 1778 The dangerous Practices of Engrossers have increased so rapidly with the Publick distresses, and have so accumulated them, that every Friend to this Country or even to Humanity, cannot but wish to see some Remedy to an Evil, which threatens the Existence not only of the several States but of the poorer part of the Individuals which compose them. We are fully sensible that this disease should be touched with a cautious 8c with a Delicate hand, but at the same time, we confide in the wisdom of your Legislature for this Delicacy 8: Caution. We do not pretend to mark out the means which they should
