202 November 11, 1778 adopt but the Confidence reposed in us by Congress, demands that we should at least Hint, what in our Idea may conduce to this valuable purpose. The Articles necessary for the Consumption of the Army, are easily designated, And we trust there will not be much difficulty in distinguishing between the Dealer in or Manufacturer of those Articles & the Engrosser or as he would call himself the Speculator. These two Objects being accomplished, it surely cannot be deemed inconsistent either with Policy or Justice, that he should be Obliged to part with them to the Public. The Process necessary for this pur pose, must depend on the civil Institutions which may have been respectively adopted, but it should be as short and as simple as is consistent with the constitution of the State. One thing more is neces sary to complete the System, namely the price. If this is such as to leave the Speculator his Profit, nothing more is operated by the Law, than merely to sanctify his unrighteous Gains. If the price be fixed by Law, the Efforts now making to render our Money valuable (and which we doubt not your Legislature will assist by heavy Taxes) will only tend to realise what he hath already accumulated. Perhaps the power Lodged somewhere, to fix the market price monthly by the name of assize, and a deduction from it of about twenty per Cent on Commodities in the Hands of Engrossers, would be most effectual. This However & every thing Else we have mentioned, is submitted to your wiser Consideration. We have the Honor to be, Your Excellency’s most Obt 8c Humble servants Nathl. Scudder Gouvr Morris Wm. Whipple RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by Morris, Scudder, and Whipple. This text is taken from the circular letter the committee addressed to New Hampshire President Meshech Weare. Committee of Congress to the States In Committee of Congress Sir Circular Philadelphia 11th November 1778 Permit us to call your attention for a moment, to the Detection Sc punishment of a Crime against the Public. Persons in Office under the Continent have, as we are informed, used the monies entrusted to them, in the engrossing of articles upon the public. 1 This seething of the Kid in its mothers milk, calls for the most exemplary punish ment. We pray, that you will urge the Legislature of your State, to pass Laws for the prosecution 8c punishment of Offenders of this kind in future, and that in the Interim, your Excellency will cause,
