November 11, 1778 203 any who may in your State be guilty o£ the like Crimes, to be secured for trial, in safe & Close custody. We are respectfully, Your Excellency’s most Obt. & Humble servants, Nathl. Scudder Gouv Morris Wm. Whipple RC (OMC: Slack Collection). In a clerical hand, and signed by Morris, Scudder, and Whipple. This text is taken from the circular letter the committee addressed to Delaware Governor Caesar Rodney. 1 For evidence that this letter was written in response to testimony provided by Delaware Chief Justice William Killen, see Henry Laurens to Caesar Rodney, November 1, 1778, note 5. Committee of Congress to Certain States In Committee of Congress Sir. Philadelphia 11th November 1778 Among the many Objects which occupy Your mind, permit us to call your Attention for a moment to one of the first magnitude. In the States of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia, 1 the Distillery of Spirits from Grain hath become a very considerable & growing Manufacture. Amid the prejudices which it is natural to suppose the Parties concerned have raised, and the Arguments which may be adduced in it’s favor, let us be permitted to mention some objections. The Effect of it in a moral point of view is certainly deserving of the first attention. Drunkenness, at all times a Crime and in this Case almost Self Murder is not discouraged by bringing the means of it home to every Mans own Door. And certainly there is the Best Authority to say that no Laws can diminish the Vice when the temptation is increased; to lead the People therefore into it or wink at their being led, is to say the least not very meritorious. An addi tional Weight is given to every Argument of this Kind, when it is considered that Malt Spirits of all others most effectually enervate both the mind & Body, rendering the unhappy Patient not only a stupid & useless but also wicked &: for the most part a Dangerous Member of Society. But as no Political considerations should or in deed can influence a good Government to become inattentive to the Health & the Morals of it’s Citizens, so we cannot doubt but that your Legislature will be most feelingly alive, when not only the Health & the Morals, but the Liberty, nay the Existence of the Society depend, upon the total prohibition of a practice at all times Danger ous, but at present fatal. The scarcity which already begins to be felt may, for ought we know, become in the course of Providence a Devouring famine. Pes-
