November 16, 1778 221 I have the honor to be, with very great Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (IHi). In the hand of Moses Young, with second postscript and signature by Laurens. The text printed here, which contains a unique postscript of the 18th, was directed to President Caesar Rodney of Delaware. Laurens’ letters to the re maining states contain only minor variations (PCC, item 13, 2:167-83), except for the letter to Patrick Henry printed separately above. 1 Caesar Rodney’s November 8 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 70, fols. 679-82. 2 See JCC, 5:702-5, 12:953-54, 956-61. "For Congress’ November 17 Thanksgiving Day resolution, see JCC, 12:1138-39. ‘ For the printing of the Franco-American treaties, and the opposition of the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, to their publication at this time, see Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., November 24, 1778, note 1. “ Rodney’s letter, which announced that he had just called the Delaware Assem bly to convene in special session in accordance with Congress’ recent request, is actually dated the 13th. See PCC, item 70, fols. 683-86; and Laurens to Rodney, November 7, 1778, note. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen November 16th. 1778 Our last of the 9th instant acknowledged the receipt of yours of the 28th Ultimo which we have since duely considered. We shall now repeat what we have been pressing for in our late Letters vizt. your greatest exertions in preparing the Continental Armed Vessels now in the Ports of your department for Sea, being well convinced that you will do every thing in your power for the speedy Accomplishmt. of that desireable business. In future you will please to observe that when Continental Vessels arrive in your Ports they are again to be fitted with all expedition for the sea, and you are to transmit to this Committee weekly an Account of their Num ber, Situation and the time you think they will be ready to sail. With regard to the Vessels that are now fitting out at your ports, and also with regard to those Vessels that may hereafter arrive, when they are fitted for the sea you will send them out to cruize against our enemies either collectively or Singly as you shall judge proper, useing your discretion as to the time for which their Cruizes shall continue, and your- best judgment in directing the commanders to such places and on such stations as you shall think will be for the general benefit of the United States, and to Annoy and distress the enemy. At present we consider it an Object of importance to destroy the in famous Goodrich 1 who has much infested our Coast, Cruizing with a squadron of 4, 5, or 6 armed Vessels from 16 Guns downwards from Egg harbour to Cape Fear in North Carolina, therefore you will please to Order A Sufficient force to range the said Coast to remove
