222 November 16, 1778 that nusence, Observing generally that the vessels are not to remain too long on any station least the enemy should get intelligence and send A superior force against them. By a Vessel arrived here lately in 17 Days from Bermuda we learn that four Vessels of Goodriches Squadron were carreening at that place when she sailed. Congress have established Pursers in the Navy to all ships not under 16 Guns, also an abatement on Slops delivered to Seamen who will enter for twelve Months, and provision in the distribu tion of Prize Money for the Carpenters & Gunners Mates who have been heretofore neglected. We shall send the Resolves by the next Opporty. 2 We have desired the Commissary General of Prisoners to give strict orders to his deputy at Boston to be attentive to the retaining 8c exchanging of Marine Prisoners under the direction of your Board, which we hope will be sufficient to remove the inconveniences you have pointed out. 3 We request that all further attempts to get out the ship Trumbull may be laid aside for the present unless some very favourable opportunity should speedily offer. We have lately been informed of the Capture of the Schooner Pigot at Rhode Island mounting Eight 12pdr. Cannon and wish you to purchase her Guns for Continental use. In a late letter from Captain Landais he mentions his not having received the Subsistance Money of 514 Dollars allowed him by Resolve of Congress of the 25th July 1777. You will please to pay him that Subsistance from the date of his Commission which is the 9th of May 1778 he being in Actual service since that time and consequently intitled to re ceive it. Captain Landais recommends the use of Powder proofs on board our Ships, we request you will write by the first opportunity to France for 3 doz of them. You will please to inform Captain Hinman that the Papers relative to Captain Thompsons trial are copying and shall shortly be sent forward to your Board. By Mr. Brown an Express who carried our letter of the 9th instant we sent you 150,000 Dollars and shall shortly remit you a further supply for the use of your Department. We are, Gentlemen, Your hble Servants P.S. It is our desire that the Ship Ranger be sent out under the command of Lieutenant Simpson. We have determined that an abatement of 50 per Ct. shall be made on the first cost of Slops delivered to Seamen who will enter for twelve’months but you will take care to order them to be distributed properly so as that the Seamen shall not leave the Vessels in debt. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).
