November 20, 1778 229 21. Saturday. Congress spent part of the day on finances. The Honl. Mr. Ellsworths dind with us. MS (MDaAr). Henry Laurens to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 20th Novem 1778 I felt myself doubly honoured by your favor of the 14th Inst. 1 from the confidence of General Washington in the free communication of his sentiments & in the coincidence of his Ideas with my own, upon a question, on the wise decision of which the Inheritance, possibly the establishment, of the freedom & Independance of these States, seems to depend. The respect Sir, which I owe you, demands an im mediate reply, & yet the variety of avocations in which I am engaged, do not afford me moments for arranging or expressing my thoughts suitably to the importance of the subject; I am nevertheless encour aged to proceed without hesitation from a conviction, that, were I to deliver my opinions at full length I should be obliged to borrow Your Excellency’s words, which I have the honor of assuring you Sir, are in more than one Instance repetitions of my own, & that in every other, one excepted, our sentiments on this momentous discussion exactly accord. I believe & upon good grounds, the scheme for an expedition into Canada in concert with the Arms of France originated in the breast of Marquis delafayette, encouraged probably by conferences with Count d’Estaing & I also believe it to be the offspring of the purest motives so far as respects that origin, but this is not sufficient to en gage my concurrence in a measure big with eventual mischiefs. As deeply as my very limited time & faculties had suffered me to penetrate, I had often contemplated our delicate connexion with France 8c although it is painful to talk of ones own foresight, had viewed 8c foretold fifteen Months ago the humiliating state to which our embrio Independence would be reduced, by courting from that Nation the loan of more Money than should be actually necessary for the support of the Army 8c of our unfortunate Navy. I was one of the six unsuccessful opponents to the resolution for borrowing Money from France for paying the Interest of our loan Office Certificates 2 -we have in this single article plunged the Union into a vast amount of debt, 8c from neglecting to exert our very small abilities or even to shew a leading disposition to cancel any part of the former demand against us, our Bills for that Interest are now floating in imminent danger of dishonor 8c disgrace. Fully persuaded of the value of National honor I anxiously wished to support our own
