230 November 20, 1778 by a propriety & consistency of conduct & I dreaded the consequences of subjecting our happiness to the disposal of a powerful Creditor, who might upon very specious grounds, interpret National honor to our destruction—I warned by friends against the danger of Mortgag ing these States to foreign powers. Every Million of Livres you bor row implies a pledge of your Lands, & it is optional on your Creditor to be repaid at the Bank of England with an exorbitant Praemium, or to collect the Money due to him in any of your Ports & accord ing to his own mode whenever National Interest shall require the support of pretended National honor—hence Your Excellency will perceive what were my feelings, when the propositions for subduing Canada by the aid of a French Fleet 8c Army were first broached to me. I demurred exceedingly to the Marquis’s scheme 8c expressed some doubts of the concurrence of Congress, this was going as far as I dared consistently with my Office or considering him as a Gentleman of equal honor 8c tenacity I trusted the issue of his application to the sagacity of Congress, the business was referred to a Committee who conferred with the Marquis, their Report was framed agreeable to his wishes, but the House very prudently determined to consult the Commander in Chief previously to a final determination, 3 and al though Your Excellency’s observations are Committed, 1 am much mistaken if every Member in Congress is not decided on his opinion in favor of them. If the prosecution of so extensive a project is from the present state of our Army 8c funds impracticable on our part, it becomes altogether unnecessary to discuss the point in a political view, 8c I trust the Marquis will be satisfied with such reasonings in apology for our desisting from the pursuit of his favorite enterprize as our circumstances will dictate. The immense debts which we are involved in abroad 8c at home demand the most serious attention 8c call for an exertion of the col lected wisdom of all these States in order to secure what we have saved from the Ravages of the Enemy. I am very short sighted, if there is at this time any encouragement for attempting distant conquests. I have been uniformly averse from every proposition which tended to dissipate our strength 8c to accumulate our debts. Events have confirmed my opinion, 8c at this Instant taking in view all circumstances I have doubts of the policy 8c more of the success of the pending expedition against East Florida. Congress will probably recommend to the States to raise a Tax of near 20 Million the ensuing Year, this I hope will have a good effect, by returning many of us to first Principles from which we have been too long wandering. This almost intolerable burthen will rouse 8c animate our fellow Citizens. They will probably send Men of abilities to investigate Causes, to enquire into expenditures 8c to call delin quents for unaccounted Millions to severe reckonings, they will do
