November 20, 1778 231 what they have hitherto shamefully neglected, pass necessary Laws for this purpose. This heavy Tax & the prospect of increasing imposi tions will shew our constituents the necessity for consolidating our strength, as well as the impropriety & danger of new expensive Mili tary enterprizes. Virtue & Patriotism were the Motto of our Banners when we entered this Contest, where is virtue, where is Patriotism now? when almost every Man has turned his thoughts & attention to gain 8c pleasures, practicing every artifice of Change Alley or Jona than’s 4 —when Men of abilities disgracefully neglect the important duties for which they were sent to Congress, tempted by the pitiful Fees of practicing Attornies—when Members of that Body artfully start apoint, succeed, & then avail themselves of the secrets of the House, commence monopolizers & accumulate the public debt for their private emoluments; I believe many such tricks have been acted. The particular instance which I allude to cost these States a large Sum of Money without putting the Criminal to the expence of a blush. When Men in almost every important public department are actually concerned in Commerce incompatible with the strict duties of their respective Offices, when the most egregious delinquents meet with support in Congress 8c escape examination—I am tired & fear tiring you Sir with this horrible half finished picture. I will therefore leave it but not before I add that the United States of America are in most deplorable circumstances, that the acquisition of a foreign Minister has fixed the Eyes of Europe upon them, that their weak nesses & their wickednesses are no longer hidden, that the States re spectively are much to blame, & that without speedy reformation their shame 8c ruin collectively will follow. The disaster of Admiral Byron’s Fleet 8c the successful departure of Count d’Estaing’s are events much in our favor, that is to say, if we are pleased to make a wise improvement of them but from experi ence fearing the contrary I am almost tempted to wish they had not happened. These fortunate circumstances will lull us to sleep again, 8c while our Ally is gaining honor, aggrandizement & the highest national advantages we shall be sinking into a State little better than tributary 8c dependent—be this as it may, the World will ever honor by acknowledging the virtues of the Man who from my inmost Soul I believe keeps us at this Moment from crumbling. I have the honor to be With the most sincere Respect 8c Esteem, Dear Sir Your much obliged, 8c obedient humble Servant, Henry Laurens. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Laurens to Washington, November 18, 1778, note 2. 2 See JCC, 8:725; and these Letters, 7:616-17. ’ See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Washington, October 27, 1778. ‘ Undoubtedly a reference to Jonathan’s coffeehouse standing in Change Alley,
