November 21, 1778 235 I have had more than one conference with the Board of War re specting your Rank. The Board are of opinion that there is no Rank incidental to the Office, and therefore declined the insertion of Rank in a Commission. I have instanced the Commission of your Prede cessor, to this I have been answered that there had been some man agement in that case unknown to Congress, and altogether improper. This opinion seems to be supported by referring to all the Deputy Quarter Masters in the other Departments, none of whom, as far as my knowledge extends have Rank in the Army as of right annex’d to the Office, altho’ they are generally complimented with the title of Lieutenant Colonels. In the late Arrangement of the Quarter Mas ters’ Department, not a Commission has been issued from my Office, and I observe that the Commander in Chief directs to my Neighbour, commonly call’d Colonel Mitchell, “John Mitchell Esqr. Deputy Quarter Master General.” You will naturally ask, have Congress established no Rule in this Case? This shall be my inquiry, and if I discover that you are entitled to Rank, by Rule or established prece dent, you may depend upon receiving a proper Commission by the next Messenger to Charlestown. In the meantime I will endeavour to prevail on my Honorable Colleagues to move Congress for an appointment in your favor of Quarter Master General of the Southern Department. There appears at present an absurdity in the term of Deputy, when compared with the Appointment of Major General Greene, 8c his power of appointing all his Deputies, from whom you receive no instructions, nor are you in any respect accountable to him under an appointment descending directly from Congress. I will not trouble you Sir, with further reasonings on this subject, you will perceive my inclination from what I have already said to obtain for you all that of right appertains to your Office. I know that heretofore Commissions have been shamefully prostituted, and I am informed that former Deputy Quarter Masters in several instances from favor itism and other vicious sources derived Rank; if this be true, I am too well acquainted with your Principles Sir, to suppose you would wish me to follow such examples—the Army cried aloud against them, and the last Arrangement was intended to prohibit and abolish the practice. I have the honor to be, With Regard, Sir, Your Obedient & Humble Servant P.S. Upon further investigation I find that the Officers under General Mifflin as Quarter Master General were entitled to Rank, & Colo. Mitchell informs me that none of the Deputies of Major Genl. Greene in the present Establishment have Commissions. As Commis sions have from necessity been lodg’d in the hands of Governors, Presidents of States and General Officers 8c no returns made of the disposition of such Commissions, it has been hitherto impossible for
