November 23, 1778 247 Mr MK call gen T a low dirty fellow. Afterwards Gen T asked Mr MK if he was a gentleman. Col William Bradford 18 sworn, says He was upstairs in his room when the dispute began, upon some person coming & telling him there was like to be a quarrel in the coffee room, he immediately went down. The first words he heard were, Mr MK said to gen T. I am your superior. Gen T said, You my superior, I’ll let you know you are not my superior. Mr MK said to gen T you are a rascal, gen T said you are a damned rascal. Quest, by Mr MK. Are you sure I called gen T. a rascal, pray recollect. A. Yes, I am certain of it. He said to gen T. You are a rascal And I was astonished at it. 19 The witnesses being examined brigr. genl Thompson addressed Congress & said If any expressions were used by him respecting the exchange which might give offence, he hoped the situation of his Mind & the circumstances attending his captivity would be taken into consideration and allowances made and that they will not be imputed to an intention of insulting Congrss for whose honour 8c dignity he has the highest respect. He begs the patience and favourable attention of Congress, while he states a few facts relative to himself. In the beginning of the year 1776 he was sent into Canada. While there Genl Sullivan being informed that a large body of troops were sent into that province judged it proper to attack them in detail, and for that purpose sent him with a body of Men to attack a party at trois Rivieres. That in Obedience to his Orders he marched 8c made the attack. The enemy were more numerous than was ex pected. He had the misfortune not to succeeed and to be taken prisoner. But even his enemies acknowledged he had done his duty 8c behaved gallantly, that he was taken in the field with his sword in his hand. That while he was on board a prison ship in the harbour of Quebec Gen Sullivan 8c gen Lord Stirling were capti vated on Long Island and quickly exchanged. 20 That though he did not mean to depreciate the merits of those generals, he hoped he should not be deemed presumptuous when he thought himself not behind them in the discharge of his duty. That though by this his feelings were wounded he quietly submitted to the pleasure of Congress. That after this being permitted to return home on parole, he waited with patience until Congress should have it in their power to exchange him and give him an Opportunity of again entering into the service of his country. That after this genl Lee was captivated and after a time ex changed. 21 The reputation of that officer and the expectation Amer-
