November 24, 1778 251 The villainous Monopolizers (or as they call themselves speculators) have raised the price of Flour to 20 dollars here but measures are taken to check this villainy. I wish they may prove efficacious. Please to tell Mrs. W. I have not time to write this post nor shall I find time very often unless she can. Your neglected Friend, Wm. Whipple. Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 See Josiah Bartlett to Langdon, October 27, 1778, note 2. a Not found. Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Dear Sir Philadelphia Novr 24. 1778 The President, before any of the Members could be Supplied with the printed Treaties with France, sent them on to the Governors of the Several States; I take the liberty, (fearing some Accident may have prevented your receiving them) to Inclose one to Your Excellency. These Treaties ought to have been thrown out to the public im mediately, but Congress out of their great wisdom thought Other wise. This business was done after the return of the No. Carolina Delegates, Mr. Burke & myself stayed & sat in Congress as long as we were Authorized by the State to give a Vote. Your Excellency must also have been informed by Mr. Blount when the requisition was made for 500,000 Dollars, No Delegate of No. Carolina was or could be present with propriety. We have however patched up this business; 400,000 Dol. have been sent on to Accomplish the first business, and 150,000 to Mr. Blount exclusive of the Other Sum, towards forwarding the Southern Expe dition. The President has no doubt informed you of the Views of Congress Should The Enemy not think proper to make an attack on Chas. Town. 1 I am not at present at liberty to Communicate it, as the injunction of Secrecy is not yet taken off. I should imagine Your Excellency would have Influence sufficient to induce the late Levies, to March forward this winter & that as early as possible with Some Volunteers from the Militia. I am one of those Old Politicians who had much rather See my Neighbours house on fire than my Own, but at the same time would lend every Assistance in my Power to quench the flame. St. Augustine during the Continuance of this war (from Her Scituation) will constantly have it in her power, not only to dis tress our poor ■frontier State Georgia, by land, but to embarrass and Almost ruin the trade of the four Southern States by their Privateers. Genl. Lincoln whom I had not the Pleasure to See, will Communicate to you the Views of Congress, & I hope he may Inform them, of what may be expected from Our State, after Consulting with you.
