252 November 24, 1778 Genl. Howe is Ordered to head Quarters. The little ridiculous matters he has been concerned in, in So. Carolina with regard to a female, has induced the Delegates of Georgia & So. Carolina to desire his recall. Congress Complied with their request but do not intend to enter into the private Amours of their Generals. I hope our friend (should the war Continue) will have an Opportunity of displaying his abilities (which Congress Acknowledge) in the field of Mars as well as of Venus. 2 I have mentioned Several times to Your Excellency my desire of remaining at home. I am too old to be sent here. It behooves the State to send Men of much greater Abilities than myself. I am now not many years from 60. The Other States have fallen upon a method of keeping some of their Delegates here, who have served from the beginning—Viz. Massachusetts, N York, Virginia &c. But Should the States think proper to Change their Delegates they ought at least to send forward the first men, (I mean as to their Abilities) in the State. N. York has invariably pursued this Plan & have profited by it. I would not be thought to derogate from the Gentlemen who are with me, I have experienced on every Occasion, their Good Sense, their Honesty & Integrity of heart. But by Changing Your Members often you must of Course know as I am Convinced every Man of Sense must, that it will take a young man of Genius, Ability & Ap plication, three Months at least to make himself well acquainted with the business of Congress—And after he has Accomplished it, in a few months, another is Appointed, who has the same process to go through before he can be made useful to his State, let his Abilities be ever so great & uncommon. I have taken the liberty to give your Excellency my Opinion on this Great Subject with an intention never more to return in the Character my Country has been pleased to honor me with, unless I am forced into it. This letter has been written with a Violent pain in my Stomach, which I suppose a Symtom of the Gout (my Old Companion); I have neither time or Inclination to Correct either the Diction or Grammar. It is intended for yourself. If I have in my incoherent manner, thrown out any hint that may Strike you & be useful to my Country I shall be happy indeed. I send the last papers, & expect Mr. Burke or Mr. Hill every hour to relieve me. I have the Honor to be with great respect, Your Excel- lencys, Most Obed fc very hu Servt. Cornl. Harnett RC (PPIn). This letter is incorrectly dated November 28, 1778, in N.C. State Rec ords, 13:304-6; and Burnett, Letters, 3:511-12. 1 Congress had approved an expedition against East Florida on November 2 on the condition that it was to be carried out if the British did not attack South Carolina or Georgia. See Harnett to Caswell, November 10, note 1; and Henry Laurens to Caswell, November 14, 1778. * See Henry Laurens to Robert Howe, October 6, 1778.
