November 24, 1778 253 Henry Laurens to Benjamin Lincoln Sir. Philadelphia 24th November 1778. I have already written to you by this conveyance. under the 16th, since which I have had the honor of receiving & presenting to Con gress your favors of the 7th & 9th which are committed to the Board of Treasury for consideration & Report. 1 The injuries which you received by the fall from your carriage, I had heard of in much more alarming terms than your own account, I am rejoiced to learn, you were so well recovered as to be able to prose cute your journey. I am in hopes the mild Climate of South Carolina will restore your strength. Capt Barry having made some extraordinary demands on Congress, for allowance of a Table & a Secretary, which the House have not determined upon, is detained here. I believe Capt Barry to be a brave & active Seaman, but I am told by Gentlemen of the Marine Commit tee that the intended service is not pleasing to him, ’tis possible therefore he may wish to avoid it, & besides, you will find old Com manders in the two southern States who will be much mortified should he actually proceed & take the Command of them, conse quences will arise which will be disagreeable to you &: which may prove detrimental to the service. I have suggested these sentiments to the Marine Committee, the determination of Congress will probably be known to morrow. 2 Inclosed with this be pleased to receive an Act of Congress of the 17th Inst, for subjecting the Troops raised in the State of South Carolina to the same regulations as the other forces of the United States are under except in Cases governed by contrary stipulations; for explaining a Resolve of the 16th September 1776 respecting the appointment of Officers on the general Staff & for appointing Capt Ed. Hyrne dep. adjutt. gen. & Stephen Drayton Esqr dep. Q.M. gen. in the sothern department. 3 I have the honor to be with great Regard Sir Your obedient & most humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (NN: Henry W. and Albert A. Berg Collection). 1 JCC, 12:1148-49. These letters, which were read in Congress on November 20, are in PCC, item 158, fols. 167-73. 1 On December 2, 1778, “Congress took into consideration a report from the Marine Committee respecting Captain Barry, and after debate. Ordered, That it be re-committed.” JCC, 12:1184. The journals contain no further reference to this matter; but see Marine Committee to John Barry, November 20, 1778. “This "Act of Congress” was adopted in response to an August 31, 1778, letter from Pres. Rawlins Lowndes of South Carolina requesting clarification of his authority to appoint Continental officers. Citing a 1776 congressional resolution which declared "that the appointment of all officers, and filling up vacancies, (except general officers) be left to the governments of the several states,” Lowndes
