254 November 24, 1778 had protested the authority of Gen. Robert Howe, commander of the Southern Department, to appoint deputy adjutants and quartermasters in that department, believing that the resolution applied to the appointment of staff as well as regi mental officers, and not just to the latter as Howe claimed. Declaring against Lowndes, however. Congress resolved that he “be informed, that the resolution of Congress of 16 September, 1776, relative to appointments, extends only to the appointment of regimental officers, and not to officers on the general staff.” See JCC, 12:1137-38; and Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes, October 5, 1778. Since this case had originated. General Lincoln had replaced Howe in the southern com mand. To notify Edmund Hyrne of his appointment, Laurens wrote the following brief letter to him on November 21. "I have the honor of inclosing under Cover with this, an Act of Congress of the 17th Instant for appointing you Deputy Adjutant general in the Southern Department, together with a Commission which I have issued in conformity with that Act.” PCC, item 13, 2:186. For Drayton’s appointment as deputy quartermaster, see Laurens to Stephen Drayton, November 21, 1778. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen November 24 1778 Since our last of the 19th we are favoured with yours of the 5th instant '-we are pleased to find you have settled Colo. Langdons Account and paid him the balance. We observe you have contracted for building two of the Packet Boats we ordered which we think will be sufficient for the present as every thing is so extravagantly dear. If you have not already agreed for building a third One we desire it may not be done. The Bill you have drawn upon us in favour of Colo. Langdon when it Appears shall be duely honored & paid. The enclosed Resolves of the 26th August 1776 will inform you what provision Congress have made for Officers & Seamen disabled in their service. We are now forming a New system of Rules & Regu lations for the Navy and would be glad you would send us any re marks that you may think will Assist in that work. Application has been lately made to us for pay and Prize Money by Mr. Hill who it appears has served with a good deal of Merit as a volunteer on board the Ship Ranger. 2 We think when he Acted as an officer where there was a vacancy he ought to receive the Same pay as the Officer in whose station he acted, and we request you will ascertain that matter and pay him accordingly. With regard to his prize Money we cannot order him more than a Common share, but are of opinion if he did act in a vacancy that the Officers of the class should allow him the Share of the officer whose place he filled. We request you will forward us an exact List of all the Commis sioned Officers in your department with the dates of their Commis sions and how they are now employed. We are Gentlemen, Your Hble servants
