November 24, 1778 257 absolutely require this action. But I know that my remarks would have postponed it if, through haste and even before the final resolution of Congress, three copies had not been sent to three states as early as day before yesterday. In the circum stance, I did not think I ought to insist and to run the risk of raising doubts about the certainty of the King’s ratification.” Gerard, Despatches (Meng & Baisnee), 59:253. 2 The New Jersey delegates signed the ratification of the Articles of Confederation on November 26. See JCC, 12:1161, 1164. • Not found. William Whipple to Meshech Weare Sir, ' Philadelphia 24d 1 Nov 1778 I need not acquaint you that the State of New Hampshire has not been represented since the commencement of this month as Col. Bartlett will inform you. He left Congress the day before I arrived, which was the 4th inst. Since my arrival New Jersey has acceeded to the confederacy &: it’s dayly expected Maryland & Delaware will fol low the example. The Confederacy then being compleat, less than two delegates will not be a representation even ’tho one should be em powered by the State for that purpose. The Spirit of Monopolizing under the name of Speculating rages with great violence through the United States the consequence of which must prove fatal unless the interposition of the Legislatures of the several States can check its fury. The plan of finance now under consideration of Congress will have a good effect when compleated, but that as well as many other important matters are exceedingly retarded for want of a full representation. Only nine States have been represented since my arrival ’till within three days, there are now Eleven States barely represented, this tardiness in the States or their Delegates, besides retarding the most important Business makes it exceeding fatiguing to those that do attend. I have the Honour to transmit you the Treaty of Alliance &c See between His most Christian Majesty and the United States of America. No intelligence has been received since Col. Bartletts departure we are still in suspence about the Enemies intentions at New York ’tho it is most generally believed they will evacuate that place. I have The Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & Re spect, Sir, Your Most Obt Humle Sert, Wm. Whipple RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 Whipple originally wrote “22d” or "23d” and then superimposed a 4.
