November 28, 1778 261 In 1’i Jr'v I NOVEMBER 24, 1778. ONGRESS took into confideration the Report of the Committee of Arrangement, and thereupon came to the following refolutions. WHEREAS the fettlement of rank in the army of the United States has been attend ed with much difficulty and delay, inafmuch as no general principles have been adopted and uniformly purfued j Resolved, therefore, That upon any difpute of rank the following rules Ihall hereafter be obferved: 1. For determining rank in the continental line between all Colonels and inferior officers of diffe rent States, bctweealike officers of infantry and thofe of horfe and artillery, appointed under the authority of Congrefs by virtue of a refolve of the i6th of September, 1776, or by virtue of any fubfequent resolution prior to the firft of January, 1777, all fuch officers ihall be deemed to have their commiflions dated on the day laft mentioned, and tneir relative rank, with refped to each other in the continental line of the army, Ihall be determined by their rank prior to the 16th day of Septem ber, 1776. This rule Ihall not be confidered to affedt the rank of theline within any State, or within the corps of artillery, horfe, or among the fixteen additional battalions, where the rank hath been fettled j but Ihall be the rule to determine the relative rank within the particular line of artillery, fa far as the rank remains unfettled. 2. In the fecond inftance, preference Ihall be given to commiflions in the new levies and flying camp. 3. In determining rank between continental officers, in other relpedts equal, proper refpedt (hall be had to their commiffions in the militia, where they have ferved in the continental army for the fpace of one month. 4. All Colonels and inferior officers, appointed to vacancies fince the 5th day of January, 1777, Ihall take rank from the right of fucceflion to fuch vacancies. 5. In all cafes where the rank between, the officers of different States is equal, or between an officer of State troops and 09c of cavalry, artillery, or of the additional battalions, the precedence is to be determined by lot. 6. All officers who have been prifoners with the enemy, being appointed by their State, and again enter into the fervice, Ihall do if agreeably to the above rule i that is to fay, all of the rank of Captains, and under, Ihall entedptp thej^kv^jmsat to which they/otmcrly belonged, and if fuch regiment is diffolved or otherwife reduce^ wacy Ihall beintmtito the firft vacancy in any regiment of the State in their proper rank, aft% ^he officers belonging to fuch regiment^ave been provided for. 7. The rules of rank* above' laid’'dowrr^’twaljf officers .of different States, are to govern between officers of the fame State, except in cafekwhere t^e State may have laid down a different rule, or al ready fettled their rank. V *'* •* ' * - *s , ' 8. A reCgnation^^Uwtt’MteMy claim of benefit from former rarijgknder a new appointment. Whereas, froihrwttrteffiion or the eftablilhment and other caufea/ many valuable officers have been and may be omitted in the new arrangement, as being fupernumerary, who, from their conduit and fervices, are intitled to the honourable notice of Congrefs, and to a fuitable provifion, until they can return to civil life with advantage. Resolved, therefore, That Congrefs gratefully acknowledge the faithful fervices of fuch officers, and that all fupernumerary officers be-intitled to one year’s pay of their commiflions refpec- tively, to be computed from the time fuch officers had leave of abfencc from the Commander in Chief on this account. And Congrefs do earneftly recommend to the feveral States to which fuch officers belong, to make fuch farther provifion for them as their refpedhvc circumftanccs and merits intitle them to. Whereas it will be for the benefit of the fervice, that fome rule for promotions be eftablilhed : Therefore, Resolved, That it be recommended to the feveral States, to provide that in all future promotions officers rife regimentally to the rank of Captain, and thence in the line of the State to the rank of Colonel, except in cales where a preference may be given on account of diftin- guiflied merit. * Resolved, That all officers who have been in the fervice, and, having been prifoners with the enemy, now are or hereafter may be exchanged, or otherwife releafed, Ihall, if appointed by the authority of the State, be intitled, in cafe of vacancy, to enter into the fervice of their refpedive State, in fuch rank as they would have had if they had never been captured; provided always that every fuch officer do, within one month after his exchange or releafe, fignify, to the authority of the State to which he belongs, his releafe, and his defire to enter again into the military fervice. Resolved, That every officer fo releafed, and giving notice as aforefaid, Ihall, until entry into adual fervice, be allowed half pay of the commiflion, to which, by the foregoing refolve, he ftands intitled j provided always, that in cafe of his receiving any civil office of profit, fuch half pay (hall thencefortn ceafe. Resolved, That no brevets be for the future granted, except to officers in the line, or in cafe of very eminent fervices. Resolved, That Pay-Mafters, not being of the rank of Captains, Quarter-Mafters and Adjutants, be intitled to receive Twenty Dollari per month, fubfiftence money, in lieu of rations. Resolved, That all officers and perfons employed on the Staff Ihall receive, for fubfiftence money, One-Third of a Dollar for each extra ration heretofore allowed them. Resolved, That Adjutants, Pay-Mafters and Quarter-Mafters, taken from the line, be again admitted into the rank they would have been intitled to, had they continued in the line. And fitch Adjutants, Pay-Mafters and Quarter-Mafters, not taken from tne line, may be admiffable into the line in luch fubaltcrn ranks, as, by a figned certificate from the field officers of their relpedtive corps, they thall be deemed competent to. fnm CHARLES THOMSON, Sicrmry. f J i * Resolves on “Arrangement” of the Army, November 24, 1778
