266 November 29, 1778 bier’s Letter & my answer, spoken of in my Official Letter of this date, ’tis highly probable both will soon be published, at present these Copies are intended for Your Lordship’s private information & no further. I intreat you Sir to pardon the liberty I have taken on the present occasion & believe me to be with very great respect & Esteem, Your Lordship’s Obliged & obedient humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (NNPM). William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 29th Novr 1778 I was in great hopes I shod have heard from you & some other of my Friends, before this, but every snip I have receiv’d from N. Hamp shire since my arrival here, is a very short letter from Mrs. W. & a line from Mr. Langdon telling me he was in so great a hurry he could not add. Since the receipt of those, two posts have arriv’d by which no body have thot it worth their while to write me a line. However I flatter my self I sh[ould] hear often from you when your retirement to winter Quarters will afford you opportunities of writing. I have the pleasure to hear by Mr. Frost (who arriv’d three days ago) that you were well abot the 7th inst. He also tells me you talk’d of writing by him, this circumstance leads me to hope to morrows post will bring me a letter from you. I wish I had any thing new to give you but as our intelligence comes chiefly from the Eastward you have it first. However I inclose you the latest News paper which will give you Ocular demonstration of their Barrenness. You will also find inclos’d The Treaties of Al liance &c between France & the United States. I dare say you will agree with me in opinion that these Treaties are concluded on terms much more favorable to America than we have any reason to expect, considering our circumstances. I wish to know the sentiments of People respecting them especially of those who have been esteem’d Enimies to the Revolution. The post goes out the day after tomorrow; if any thing new shod arrive before that time I shall give it you. As I have but few minutes to spare from public business I am obliged to improve such intervals as I can ketch to write to my Friends. Your Most affecte Bror. W.W. Novr. 30th 11 at night. No post yet ariv’d. I suppose the weather has detain’d him. RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers).
