November 30, 1778 267 William Henry Drayton to Henry Laurens Dr Sir. Monday [November 30, 1778] I am entirely of opinion that there is not only much more villany in the transaction of our public affairs than we can fathom but more than we have any idea of. This Spanish Cargo discovers new wheels which have been running to private advantage under the guidance of public Agents. What can be done! I am glad De Francy is so sensible of the merit of your offer. 1 You will Pardon me when I tell you, that when you made it, I felt what your Son would have felt, had he heard you make it. It was an action worthy of you, greatly advantageous to the Public, 8c honourable to your Constituents. You took the lead in a Patriotic conduct—but there are none who are able or have the virtue to follow it. I can only admire & applaud; Being with great respect, Dr. Sir, Your most affectionate, humble Sevt. Wm H Drayton. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 22). Endorsed by Henry Laurens: "Mr. Drayton on Beaumarchais’ affair &c, 30 Novr 1778, which clearly shews that Mr. Drayton had not been tempted, until after my resignation of the Presidency—the 9 December.” 1 Th^veneau de Francy, Caron de Beaumarchais’ business agent, was in Philadel phia seeking remittances from Congress to help pay for the military supplies his employer had shipped to America. Although Francy had written to Congress on November 28 asking for the consignment of two or three thousand hogsheads of tobacco for this purpose, his letter made no mention of the mysterious “Spanish Cargo” referred to by Drayton, who was a member of the committee to which Francy’s letter had been referred on the 28th. See JCC, 12:1168; and PCC, item 78, 9:209-11. It is not known what "offer” Laurens made to Francy. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir Philadelphia 30th Nov 1778 I have not receiv’d a line from New Hampshire since my arrival here. Mr. Frost who arrived the 25th inst. Brot with him an act im- powering one Delegate to represent the State. Had it been sent some time before the State would not have been so long unrepresented and his coming render’d the Act less necessary. 1 I wish to be informed what number of the journals of Congress have been sent to the state & whether any indexs have been sent to the first Volume. The Treaties of Alliance 8cc with France are printed. I sent one Book to the President last week, 8c shall send one to you by the first convenient opportunity. 2 Nothing material has happen’d since your departure. The business of finance goes on very slowly; however some of the principle Ques tions have pass’d the Committee of the whole which leeds me to hope we shall make a considerable progress in this important business in a
