December 2, 1778 275 James Duane to George Clinton Sir, Philad. 2d Decem’r 1778. I deliver’d Congress the Depositions your Excellency charged me with, respecting the Breach of the Convention of Saraghtoga by that part of Genl. Burgoine’s army which was permitted to return into Canada. It is the desire of Congress that this perfidious pro- ceedure may be exposed in the fullest Light, and they, therefore, request that your Excellency will endeavour to procure further Evi dence, and, if possible, one of General Carlton’s proclamations or orders requiring those Troops to join their respective Corpses. 1 One thousand Dollars in Specie are now delivered to Mr. Bancker for the purpose of making the necessary discoveries, to be employd in such manner as your Excellency shall be pleased to direct; when it is expended you will be pleased to remit the account to the Treas ury board that you may be properly discharged. I did not think it necessary to send the Cont. money directed to be paid into your Hands, for the above purpose. It therefore, waits your disposal in the Treasury. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect Sir Your Excellency’s most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:391-92. 1 Congress directed a committee of three—Duane, Gouverneur Morris, and Wil liam Carmichael—on November 30 to collect “evidence relative to the infractions made by the enemy on the convention of Saratoga.” JCC, 12:1175. For Clinton’s efforts to comply with Duane’s request for additional evidence of British infractions of the convention, see Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:365-08, 392, 420-23. Samuel Holten’s Diary [December 2, 1778] 2. Wednesday. Congress sit in the Eveng. Mr. Temple from Boston dind with us. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 John Temple, a suspected British agent, had arrived in Philadelphia the pre vious day. For information on the background and purpose of Temple’s visit to Philadelphia, see Samuel Adams to James Bowdoin, September 3, note 2, and December 19, 1778, note 2. Henry Laurens to Patrick Henry Sir 2nd December [1778] I had the honor of addressing Your Excellency under the 16th
