282 December 3, 1778 I have the honor to be, With very great Respect & Regard, Sir, Your Obedient & Most humble Servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi: Heath Papers). 1 JCC, 12:1185. Heath’s November 19 letter transmitting “the most accurate Return & state of the Troops of the Convention that I can obtain” is in PCC, item 157, fols. 240-43. 2 This day Laurens also wrote the following letter to “Major General Gates, Commanding Officer, Eastern Depart. Boston, by Patrick Maher.” Not having any of your favors unanswered, and no particular Commands from Congress I have only to transmit an Act of the 24th November for further arranging the Army, and five Copies, to which I shall add a Newspaper of the day.” PCC, item 13, 2:203. Francis Lewis to George Clinton Dear Sir, Phila. 3d Decemr. 1778 I had the honor of writing to you yesterday in conjunction with my Collegues. 1 Congress has since received from Lord Sterling, Com manding at Eliza. Town, a State of the British Army, together with their late embarkations of which the inclosed is a Copy. 2 Should any part of that Army be destined against Charles Town So. Caro lina, Congress hath a month past ordered 1000 Militia from Virginia, 3000 from North Carolina, together with the Continental Troops in that Quarter to rendevous at Charles Town, and in case the Enemy do not attempt that place, our Troops are to proceed against St. Augustine under the Command of General Lincoln. I cannot help thinking that Lord Sterling’s Return relative to the Enemies force in the vicinity of Nw York somewhat exaggerated, as I have been lately informed by a person from Staten Island that there is very few troops at present on that Island, and that the Enemy do not intend to leave Nw York this Winter. Mr. Jay is not yet arrived; and this morning the proceedings of the Court Marshall upon Genl Schuyler is to be reviewed by Congress. 3 When anything material happens in this Quarter, I shall take the earlest opportunity to inform you. I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient, Humble Servant, Fras Lewis RC (PPRF). 1 Lewis was referring to the New York Delegates’ December 1 letter to Clinton. 2 This may be a reference to a private letter from Gen. William Alexander to Henry Laurens, who acknowledged receipt of letters from Alexander of November 29 and December 1 but apparently did not formally submit them to Congress. See Laurens to Alexander, December 5, 1778, note 1. •See Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler, December 4, 1778.
