284 December 4, 1778 Right of Civility & Gratitude to you, which an unbounded Portion of public Business will probably make me, as heretofore, neglect, with out some accidental Stimulus, like the present, occuring. On the Spur, then, of this Occasion I most affectionately salute you &: your lovely Family. I will not be forgotten by my former charm ing Pupils, even if they are married. I retain a most pleasing Memory of them & their exemplary manners. Mrs. Bromfield must excuse me if remembring also her many enviable Qualities, I retain one visible Anecdote of her. She told her Daughter so lately as two years ago to “hold up her Head.” Well might the little Emblem of Up rightness show a rosey Streak of Wonder. And now, Sir, finding my Brain relieved, by this little Exertion of Fancy, from the State into which it had been beaten by the Pros & Cons in a Discussion upon Finance, I think I can venture again upon the disagreeable Subject for a moment or two. While we are plodding here to reduce the Quantity of circulating Medium, cannot Associations be formed to discountenance one great Source of De preciation which operates more strongly than even Quantity. I mean the speculating Spirit which is devouring us in geometrical Propor tions. Taxation is doubtless our first object here and will most readily be received by all the People. Loan is another, if not the second to be pursued; but then, Quere, foreign or domestic? How shall Monies now received in Loan be paid? As those received in 1776? Every Genius on the Continent with a Turn to Finance should throw his mite in to the Delegates of his particular State while that important Matter is in agitation. I parted with your Brother Thomas this morning Deer. 5th. Your son probably will sail before his Uncle. But doubtless one or other of them decide this matter to you by Letter. I have only therefore to add renewed assurances of Regard as your affectionate obliged humble Servant. James Lovell MS not found; reprinted from "Letters of Lovell and Adams,” Transactions of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts 6 (1899—1900): 77—78. 1 Henry Bromfield (1727-1820), a prominent Boston merchant. 2 Henry Bromfield (1751-1837), who subsequently pursued a successful mercantile career and moved to Gloucestershire in England. Ibid., p. 77n.2. Charles Thomson’s and Henry Laurens’ Notes on Proceedings in Congress Deer. 4 [1778]. 1 The president communicated to Congress another 2 unsigned note from the Minister of France, relative to a plan he had proposed for
