306 December 8, 1778 2 See Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes, December 7, 1778, note 3. 2 See Henry Laurens to Washington, this date, note 1. ' For this March 16, 1778, action by Congress, see these Letters, 9:313n.2. Roger Sherman to William Williams Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 8th. 1778 I received your favor of the 24th of last month and am much obliged to you for the useful information Contained in it. I have disposed of the letter agreeable to Your request, after having well perused it. We have no important News here either foreign or domestic. We have had accounts from France as late as about the middle of Sepr. The Brest Fleet that Sailed in quest of Admiral Kepple, not meeting with him is returned into Port. Kepple also remains in Port with his Fleet. We have not heard from Count De Estaing Since he Sailed from Boston. I wonder how it happened that Mr. Trumbull did not receive the Letter from the Treasury Board Notifying to him his appointment to the office of Comptroller of the Treasury. I Saw it Sealed up & directed to him. The Board will write again this week. 1 The Committee have not reported a Second time on the late Com missary’s Affairs. The present regulation is that the Commissary Gen eral of purchases Appoints all the Deputies and Assistants & displaces them at pleasure—and is allowed half per cent for all monies that are expended in that business. The mode of paying Commissions for purchases in that or any other department is generally Supposed to have a tendency to enhance prices, and will probably be altered. Congress has not finished the plan of Finance. I wish I had the Gov ernor’s Sentiments on the Subject. I hope public Faith will be pre served, that the Bills will be drawn in by taxes gradually at about the value they were issued so that justice may be done to the people at large—That the lenders on loan office certificates will receive an Equivalent in value to the money lent. I dont imagine that a Foreign loan will be beneficial further than to answer our engagements abroad, until we can make remittance in Country produce. What we owe & pay Interest for among our selves does not impoverish the States taken collectively—and our own re sources I think would be Sufficient if properly applied with good economy. Enclosed are the resolutions respecting the Arrangement of the Army. You mistook my proposal to the govr [abojut compound Interest. I did not propose to borrow Money on fthojse terms. It was only a computation of the present Rvalue] of the Bills of Credit in case they were redeemable in ptwelnty Years, and considered only as notes for money without Interest. The longest period that it is proposed to
