December 8, 1778 307 borrow money for, is 3 years on Simple Interest, & payable in cur rency—but the Bills are to be redeemed by taxes within Such a term of time as it can be done without being too burthensome to the peo ple. I should not wish to take any out of circulation by loan were it not to make room for further emissions. If we could disband our army we could easily redeem our Bills. I am very respectfully, Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (MHi: S.A. Green Papers). Addressed: “To The Honorable William Williams Esqr. at Lebanon in Connecticut.” 1 Neither letter from the Board of Treasury to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., has been found. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia 8th Dec 1778. This acknowledges the receipt of your favor of the 16th. It gives me pleasure to hear you have passed a Proscriptive Act. 1 I should be glad to be favored with a copy of it, also of all other proceedings of the Court—but I suppose according to custom I am to be kept in profound ignorance of all public proceedings, though I think, in my present situation, I ought to be particularly informed of every trans action. Count d’Estaing’s proclamation will undoubtedly have a good effect. 2 A packet is arrived from France but brings nothing of im portance. She has had a long passage—left Nantz in September—the latest date by her from Paris is 31st August. Agreeable to your desire I enclose you the latest papers, by which you will find some of the great servants of America have got into a dispute. You remember the old saying—the greatest R calls R first. 3 I am very much mistaken if this adage is not verified in this instance. Adieu, Your friend &c, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 An act prohibiting the return of selected loyalists had been passed by the New Hampshire Assembly, of which John Langdon was the speaker. N.H. State Papers, 8:796, 803, 808, 810-14. 2 That is, the comte d’Estaing’s Address to the Inhabitants of Canada, which had been read in Congress on December 5. JCC, 12:1190. 8 Perhaps “Rascal” or “Rogue.” Whipple was referring to the participants in the intensifying Deane-Lee dispute.
