308 December 8, 1778 William Whipple to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia 8th Deer. 1778 I had the Honour of receiving your favor of the 6th Ulto with its inclosures, ’tho it did not come to hand till the 1st of this month. Your Letter to the President has been laid before Congress and is refer’d, with the depositions to the Treasury Board. 1 My best endeavors shall be used for the accomplishment of Your wish in that Business. I was informed by Col. Ethan Allen (who left this City a few days ago) of the proceedings of the Green Mountain People; that Gentle man promises to use his influence to prevent any farther trouble to New Hampshire from that Quarter. Whether his influence is sufficient to effect the purpose is a matter I can not undertake to decide upon, but by the appearence of so small a Majority in favor of his proposi tion, I should suppose it at least doubtful. I am rather inclined to think that nothing will effectually settle the dispute but New Hamp shires opposing her claim to that of New-York; even if she should afterwards (supposing the decision to be in favor of New Hampshire) agree that the grant on the west side of the River should be a seperate State, because in that case New Hampshire would have it in her power to settle the line to her satisfaction, and perhaps avoid some disagreable disputes that may otherwise arise. Mr. Wheelock has been here with a memorial to Congress from those people who withdrew themselves from the Windsor Assembly. After giving it to the President, he met with some discouragements and made application to withdraw it, but I understand was refused by the President. This Memorial has been read in Congress & filed, I shall endeavour to transmit a copy of it by next post, I dont know but Mr. Wheelock is still in this City. I have not had the Pleasure of seeing him; from some perticular circumstances 1 am led to sup pose he avoided me, his reasons for so doing I am unacquainted with. 2 A Packet is lately arrived from France but has Brot nothing new having had a long passage, the latest dates by her is 31st Augt. Intelligence is just received that the Enemy are gone up Hudsons River with fifty transports, their intentions by this Manoeuvre at present rests intirely on conjecture, perhaps it may be a feint to cover their retreat, this however is only a conjecture of [my] own and without any real foundation. I wish I may soon have the pleasure of congratulating you on so desirable an event. I have the Honour to be, with the highest sentiments of Respect, Sir, Your Most obt Sc very Huml Servt, Wm. Whipple RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 Weare’s November 6, 1778, letter to President Laurens transmitting three
