December 9, 1778 309 requests for compensation for lost or burned continental money was read in Con gress on December 2 and referred to the Board of Treasury. Congress accepted the board’s negative report on these and several similar memorials on March 9, 1779. See JCC, 12:1182-83, 13:299-300; and PCC, item 64, fols. 59-65. 2 John Wheelock apparently tried to avoid Whipple because Wheelock was in Philadelphia representing a group headed by Joseph Marsh, who insisted on a union between the western towns of New Hampshire and the self-proclaimed state of Vermont. Wheelock had delivered an October 23 letter to Congress from Marsh, written in behalf of the delegates to Vermont’s Windsor Convention, who denied Ethan Allen’s right to renounce the union of river towns or to represent the New Hampshire Grants at Congress and argued that the New Hampshire Grants on both sides of the Connecticut River were ‘‘on the same footing, and ought never to be divided.” PCC, item 49, fols. 167-69. See also Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, November 30, 1778, note 3. Samuel Adams to James Warren Deer. 9. [1778] The foregoing I had laid aside, & probably should never have forwarded it to you, had not an extraordinary Peice appeared in the last Saturday’s paper signd S. Dean, in which he avows himself to be the Author of the Queries I sent you a few Weeks ago. 1 I believe you will find the Plausibility of this Performance, which I shall in close, to be answerable to a Character I have given you in the Letter above. He “had the Honor to be the Commercial and political Agent of America in Europe.’’ He might have said more justly that he had the Honor of being employd by the secret Committee of Commerce as their Agent, and by the secret Committee of Correspondence as their Intelligencer. Mr. A Lee he says “having by a wanton Display of his Errand, given great 8c just Cause of Disgust to the Court of Spain, returnd.” I will relate to you certain Matters which may explain, if that Court was disgusted with him as Mr. D asserts, how it came to pass Soon after the Secret Committee was appointed, which if I remember rightly was about three years ago, they wrote a Letter to Mr. Lee then in England, requesting a political Cor respondence with him, and desiring he would give them the best Intelligence he could, and pledging to him their Confidence. 2 Mr. Lee being thus honord, in Mr. Dean’s Sense, as a political Agent of America, and having the solemn Assurance of Confidence and Secrecy, with his usual fidelity 8c as became him in that Character, proceeded with unsuspecting Frankness to open to the Committee what he thought as well as what he knew of Men and and Measures. There was at that time in England a Mr. Carmichael, who is lately arrivd in America 8c since appointed a Delegate in Congress for the State of Maryland. Mr. Lee had a good Opinion of this young Gentleman; and he being at that time about to return hither by
