322 December 9, 1778 Doubt be given to you by your Brother; Time will not admit of my doing it. The Enemy have a few Days since made a Movement in Force up Hudson’s River. I judge their Object to have been an Interuption of the Convention Troops—in this however they have been disappointed as they were advanced so far as to be out of their Reach—it is said they landed near King’s Ferry, burnt a few huts, & returned. I expect to set out for home some Time tomorrow, 2 and to return in about a Fortnight—shall be glad of a Line from you by the first convenient Conveyance. I have the Honor to present my most respectfull Complements to your Lady, Family & Connections, & am. Dear Sir, with Esteem & Sincerity, your Obedt. Hble Servt. Nath. Scudder RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 1 See JCC, 12: 1200-1201. ’Scudder's departure is confirmed by his fellow New Jersey delegate, John Fell, who noted in his diary for December 11: “Coll Scudder gone home, State of New Jersey not Represented.” John Fell Diary, DLC. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 10th Dec’r, 1778. Mr. President Laurens, who has been in the Chair 13 months yesterday resigned, sated with honor, and worn down with fatigue. A respect as to the Confederacy had an influence on this measure. You remember this grand instrument of our federal union restrains the same member from serving more than a year at one time. A great majority of Congress immediately determined that one of the New York Delegates should succeed in the Chair. We held up General Schuyler, which seemed to be very agreeable. On account of his absence, Mr. Jay was prevailed on to take the chair with a resolu tion on his part to resign in favor of General Schuyler as soon as he attends. 1 I hope we shall be able to contrive the means of his execut ing the particular commission with which he is intrusted. 2 On this subject we have not yet conferred any further than to learn to my utter astonishment that he is not possessed of the Maps and papers reported by a Committee of Convention to justify our claims. I en treat your Excellency to forward one of the Maps and a copy of the minutes of the Committee, or rather of their state of the territorial claim of New York. All the States except Maryland and Delaware have actually signed the Confederacy. New Jersey without waiting for our offer. I fear it will cost me a jaunt to Maryland to prevail on that State to accede; as I am spoken of as one of a Committee for that purpose. 3 Disen-
