324 December 10, 1778 gaged as we are from any obligation to New Jersey we propose to hold out the grant of the bounty lands to Maryland. The want of ability to gratify their soldiery is a capital if not the material objection. I write in a hurry after the fatigues of the day. I write in confi dence because I have not time to weigh what I write. Your Excel lency I wish to see what passes on every important event. I am with respectful compliments to Mrs. Clinton, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s truly affectionate and most obedient servant, Jas. Duane Tr (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). 1 For further information on the delegates’ expectation that Philip Schuyler would be elected president of Congress, see James Lovell to Horatio Gates, Novem ber 3; John Jay to Schuyler, December 8, 1778; Duane to Schuyler, January 3, 1779; and Meng, Gerard Dispatches, p. 425. 2 New York had charged John Jay with the special mission of securing a favorable settlement of the Vermont controversy. See New York Delegates to George Clinton, December 1, 1778. 3 There is no evidence in the journals that a special committee to solicit Mary land’s ratification of the articles of confederation was appointed at this time. John Fell’s Diary Deer. 10th [1778] Thursday. Honble John Jay Esqr was Elected President in the Room of Mr. Laurens Resign’d. For Mr Jay 8 States, Mr Laurens 4. Vir ginia not Represented. 1 Dined with Mr Laurens. MS (DLC). In the hand of John Fell. This 116 page MS, endorsed "Journal Kept by Judge John Fell—while Member of Congress for the State of New Jersey, 1778,” is a clean copy that Fell obviously penned sometime after November 30, 1779, the date of his last entry, apparently from notes or a rough draft of it. No other version of the diary is known to have survived, however. It has been edited by Donald W. Whisenhunt, Delegate from New Jersey: The Journal of John Fell (Port Washing ton, N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1973), who has also appended a section of "Brief Biographies” of persons mentioned in it for the convenience of those desiring to consult it as a single unit. 1 The division on the motion to elect Jay president was not recorded in the jour nals. See JCC, 12:1206. John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 10 Dec’r 1778. Many unavoidable Delays prevented my arrival here till Sunday evening last.
