December 10, 1778 325 Yesterday Mr. Laurens resigned the Chair, & this morning Con gress were pleased to appoint me to succeed him. This Circumstance was unexpected. Let your public Letters be public ones. I mean that public & private matters should not be mixed in the same Letters. Commodore Wynkoop’s memorial has been presented &: com mitted. You shall have the earliest Intelligence of its Fate. 1 I have heard, tho not from authority, that the Enemy have quitted the River without having accomplished any thing of Importance. God Grant it may be true. We have no Intelligence worth communi cating. The Season for bringing on the affair of Vermont is not yet ar rived, nor can I divine what will be the Issue of it. I can only say that my Endeavors shall not be wanting to bring it to a Termination satisfactory to New York. Be pleased to present my best Respects to Mrs. Clinton Sc believe that I am very sincerely your Friend & serv’t, John Jay. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:360. 1 Jacobus Wynkoop was seeking compensation for his service as commander of the American flotilla on Lake Champlain in 1776. His September 29, 1778, memorial and an affidavit from Gen. Philip Schuyler, under whose authority he had served, are in PCC, item 41, 10:355-59. On May 4, 1779, Congress adopted the recommen dation of the Marine Committee, to whom his memorial was referred, that Wyn koop “be paid sixty dollars per month during the time he was in actual service.” See JCC, 12:1207, 14:544; and these Letters, 3:204n.7, 620-21. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Brother Philadelphia Deer. 10th 1778 After having been absent since the beginning of June, I arrived here the 7. of Novr. our bro’r having [left] it a fortnight before. 1 I was astonished to find that S. Deane had made so great progress in the Art of intriguing, as to have formed here a very dangerous party who think it necessary to their designs, to remove all the old friends of Liberty and Independance, for which purpose every Lie their in vention can furnish, is circulated with the Air of certainty, and the blackest colorings given to Actions in themselves indifferent or acci dental. This party is composed of the Tories, all those who have rob’d the public, are now doing it, and those who wish to do it, with many others, whose design, I fear, is of a much more alarming nature, and a few who wish to succeed to Offices abroad. All these together form a very powerfull body. Having prepared the minds of the people, by a number of understrappers, who have been circulating their insinu ations and falshoods thro’ the Country with great industry; they opened the attack on the 5th inst. with the peice in Dunlaps Paper, 2
