December 10, 1778 327 2 See Francis Lightfoot Lee to the Public, December 7, 1778, note 1. 3 See Henry Laurens to Silas Deane, December 3, 1778. 4 Perhaps Conrad Alexandre Gerard. 3 William Lee. 6 William Carmichael. 7 William Duer. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Deer. 10th. 1778 It was not possible for me to acknowledge your favor of Novr. 29th 1 by the same post wch. gave me pleasure of knowing that you & your lovely family were well. Nor will I now particularly notice the subjects you hinted to me. I will rather give you a few Entries of our Journals, and an anecdote of our friend Adams to enable you to read the Prints wth. a proper comprehension of the plotting spirit of some of the chaps who are scribbling therein, and of the serpen tine, malicious and elusive course which others have been contriving for themselves since you left us. Temple came to this City about 10 days ago bringing Letters of high Recommendation both to Congress & to the Delegates of Massa chusetts. His Letters were from the Council of our State, Govr. Trum bull, Genl. Washington, Govr. Livingston and the first whigs indis putably of Boston. Mr. Adams conducted Mr. Temple from his Lodgings to the President’s to introduce the Delivery of the men tioned Letters. This single call at the Door of the man’s Lodging is termed to the public “so frequent in exchange of Visits,” and prob ably by the very tall Wisacre who was for constituting a semblance of the french Lieutenancy of police to fall in with, pimp upon and otherwise entrap all visiting strangers, even so far as to write ficti tious Letters and intercept the Answers. But I drop this pitiful subject only remarking that the hint 2 in the prints is a good answer to our recommendatory Letters, for there was nothing public or private which Mr. T ought not rather to have communicated by Letter than by a visit. I must give you my Key to his whole Proceed ings. It is in the Cry of the Preacher “Vanity of Vanities, all is Vanity.” 1778 Novr. 30. On Motion Resolved That Congress meet on Wednesday Evening at 6 o Clock to consider the proceedings of the Courts martial on the Tryals of Majr. Genl. Lee, Majr. Genl. Schuyler & Major Genl. St. Clair. Deer 1st. fg 7 A Letter of Novr. 30th from Silas Deane Esq was read, whereupon, Resolved That, after Tomorrow, Congress will meet two Hours at least each Evening beginning at 6 oClock,
