328 December 10, 1778 Saturday Evenings excepted, until the present State of our for eign affairs be fully considered. Deer. 5. A letter of the 4th from Silas Deane Esqr. was read. Ordered that Monday Evening be assigned for hearing Mr. Deane & that he be notified to attend. Deer. 7th. Resolved that Silas Deane Esqr. report to Congress in Writing as soon as may be his Agency of their affairs in Europe together with any Information which he may judge proper. That Mr. Deane be informed that if he hath any Thing to com municate to Congress in the Interim, of immediate Importance, he shall be heard Tomorrow Eveng at 6 oC[lock.] He published on the 5th notwithstanding our Resolve of the 1st upon his Letter of Novr. 30th. It is true he dates Novr. blank to give his Peice the air of precedency but if he had really appealed to the Public why write to us on the 30th. He had made himself a Culprit before our Bar by refusing to answer any Interrogatories “tending to criminate himself.” He was the cause of after dating. I need add no more to you; therefore conclude, your humble Serv ant affectionately, Js. Lovell. RC (PPAmP: Lee Papers). 1 Richard Henry Lee’s November 29 letter to Lovell has not been found, but for a letter that Lee wrote to William Whipple on the same day and that discusses several major congressional concerns, see Whipple to Lee, November 8, 1778, note; and Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:453-55. 2 The article, entitled “A Hint," to which Lovell is alluding, appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet, December 8, 1778. For further information on Samuel Adams' relations with John Temple, see Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams, December 13, to James Bowdoin, December 19, to John Winthrop, December 21, and to Samuel Cooper and to Charles Chauncey, December 25, 1778. Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton Sir, Phila. 10th Dec’r 1778. I have the Pleasure to inform your Excellency that the hon’le John Jay Esqr. is elevated to the Chair of Congress, which as well from your Friendship for him, as for Reasons of public Importance will, I am confident, be agreable to you. The weight of his personal Character contributed as much to his Election as the Respect for the State which hath done and suffered so much or the Regard for its Delegates which is not inconsiderable. The Public will I am confident experience many good consequences from the Exchange. I am respectfully Your Excel lency’s most obedient & humble Servant. Gouv. Morris. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:360-61.
