330 December 11, 1778 I am now reliev’d from all duties of that multiplicity of business to which you allude; I had never any ambition to sit in the Chair of Congress & when I had sat one complete Year in it, I urged the House to make a better choice for filling it. The unanimous voice of the Members then present requesting me to continue, added to another circumstance, overbalanced my determination to retire & rendred it necessary that I should bear a little while longer a painful pre eminence; but the conduct of the House under the overbearing in fluence of a few Members who act in my opinion an excellent part for the benefit of our Enemies, obliged me to resign on the 9th Inst. I must have been void of all feeling for the honor & dignity of the United States of America as well as for my own if I had not shewn such resentment for the Insults offered to the former, 8c there were no other means in my power but resignation. I shall read to Capt Hubbard the reasons which were assigned by me, previous to the final Act 8c if after a few days consideration it shall not appear to be improper I will do myself the honor of sending you a Copy. With respect to our Paper medium, I can not say we have not labored at the business of mending its Credit, but our labours have hitherto been totally ineffectual. The causes are to me too visible 8c yet I must acknowledge we have amongst us some very sensible faith ful friends; but while these have been at hard pumping to free the Ship, it would seem as if others had been equally industrious in making new leaks, for it is certain there is more Water in the hold now than there was when you left her, 8c I have my fears that our circumstances will not mend until we suffer some violent convulsion 8c rouse the slumbering States. It is with deep grief 8c concern that I assure you Sir, our case is deplorable, 8c demands the immediate attention of every honest 8c faithful friend to our Independence. You will see in the inclosed papers the contempt 8c disgrace brought upon your Representatives by the unnecessary 8c insulting publications of Mr. Deane abetted by Men who pretend to have at heart the honor 8c Interests of the Public. Congress have by neglecting to shew a proper resentment pleaded guilty, the Eyes of Europe are upon us, I need not say to you what the consequences will be unless there shall be an immediate wise interposition. I am with great Respect 8c Esteem, Sir, Your obedient 8c most humble Servant, Henry Laurens RC (Sol Feinstone, Washington Crossing, Pa., 1979). Addressed: "The Honorable Sami. Huntington Esquire, Norwich.”
