December 13, 1778 333 formed that Clinton & his Armament have returned back without being able to effect any Thing except burning a House or two at Kings Ferry. The General conjectures that Clinton was misinformed of the Strength of the Highland Forts. Our army are moving into Winter Quarters. Yrs. [.. .], W Paca RC (PHi: Etting Collection). 1 For Congress’ adoption on December 11 of “a new form of a commission to officers in the army of the United States,” see JCC, 12:1211-12. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy. Philadelphia Deer 13, 1778. Captn. Johnson will deliver you this Letter, which incloses a Pub lication in the last Tuesdays Paper. You will easily guess which of the Massachusetts Delegates it is intended for. 1 The Design of it is to represent Mr Temple as a British Emissary and that Delegate as listening to his Proposals of Accommodation with Great Britain, and thus to beget a Suspicion of him in the Mind of the Minister of France, with whom he has the Honor of being on friendly Terms. That Delegate has been so used to the low Arts of Tories in his own Country, as to have learnd long ago to treat them, wherever he sees them, with ineffable Contempt. He does not think it worth his while to satisfy the Curiosity of the Writer, but he can assure his Friends, that he had never called on Mr T but once 2 and that was to show him the way to Mr President Laurens’s House, to whom he had Let ters to deliver, one of which was from the Council of Massachusetts Bay. As a Delegate from that State, he could do no less than shew such a Piece of Civility to Mr T, and he is determind, notwithstand ing the apparently friendly Hint, to treat him as he thinks proper. Indeed he has been told by a real Friend, that there are Persons in Pay to watch his Words and Actions. He thankd his Friend, and told him that such kind of Intimations were not new to him. It might be well or ill grounded, & he was perfectly indifferent about it. He had a private Conversation a few Days ago with Monsieur , 3 in which the Subject of the Hint beforementiond was brought up. That {Minister) Personage was pleasd to say, that he well knew the Character of the Delegate before his Arrival in America, and that there was no Reason to doubt of his Attachment to the jovnt Interest of France & America—that he had sufficient Proofs of it to prevent any ill Impressions being made on his own Mind; with other Ex pressions of Friendship & Confidence. Between our selves, I can not say I am not embarrassd with Mr Ts Arrival here; He is highly rec ommended, and I believe him to be an honest American. But the
