344 December 15, 1778 John Jay to Henry Laurens Sir. Philadelphia 15th Deer. 1778 1 As the enclosed Resolution of Congress expresses the high Sense which the Representatives of the United States entertain of the Man ner in which you presided in their great Council, it gives me par ticular Pleasure to have the Honor of transmitting it to You And the more so, as 1 have Reason to believe it declares the Sentiments not only of Congress but of their Constituents. 2 I have the Honor to be, Sir, with great Respect & Esteem Your most obedt & hble Servt, John Jay RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 21). 1 This letter, the document actually received, is clearly dated December 15, al though in Jay's presidential letterbook it is dated December 18 and appears in the middle of a series of letters of that date. See PCC, item 14, 1:4. 2 JCC, 12:1221. For Laurens’ explanation of the maneuvering in Congress that preceded the adoption of this seemingly routine December 15 resolution, see his December 16 letter to Rawlins Lowndes below. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee My dear Bror. 1 Philadelphia Deer. 15. 1778 I do not wonder at your disgust at the wickedness & folly of man kind. I have so much of the same feelings, that I am sure, there can be no condition in Life more unhappy, than to be engaged in the managemt. of public affairs, with honest intentions. But hard as the lot is it must be borne at least till things have got into a tolerable way. We have had nothing from the party since my last; only that Mr. Wm. Lee’s name is in the list of Aidermen, in the Calender for 1778. 2 I expect an attack in this days paper, upon S. Deane, by Com mon Sense. 3 He knows a good deal of the transactions, & if in earnest, can do a great deal of good. Congress has yet done nothing in finance or foreign affairs. I fear there is a design in some that nothing shall be done, that things may get into such disorder, as to make the people wish for the old Governmt. Congress has no power, & every Villain whome they want to call to account, insults them. The inclosed Letter from Mr. Laurence, will give you an Account of his resignation & his reasons. 4 He is really an honest Man, & I hope will do a great deal of Good. Jay is President. We have Accounts from N. York, that 30,000 ton of Shipping is order’d to be taken up for Governt. service, and an Embargo laid on all Vessels. This looks like a move. Maryland still refuses to con federate, & is going to publish a declaration of their rights & greiv-
