December 15, 1778 347 William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 15th Deer. 1778 Since my last I have been favored with Yours of the 15th Ulto. Want of time only prevented my acknowledging the receipt of it per last post. I hope my not writing so often as I wish, will [not] prevent Your writing as often as possible. I find my old correspondants have mostly forgot me. Mr. Martin has favor’d me with a letter for which I am much obliged to him, & my professed Friend the Col. 1 has Honoured me with two very short ones about three lines each, these are all I have receivd from Portsmouth since my arrival, except Yours & what I have receivd from Mrs W however I shall keep regular accots. and endeavour to discharge my Epistolary Debts with the greatest punctuality. By every accot from York the movements of the Enemy indicate preparations for a removal but no authentic intelligence of their intentions has been receiv’d, indeed the season is so far advanced that it cannot be expected they will go off ’till to wards the Spring. I have no doubt of their taking their departure then. Our Army are going into winter Quarters & at the same time every preparation making for the next Campaign. The Currency is the greatest difficulty with us. C have been hammering upon a plan of finance ever since I have been here. It is now nearly wrought into form, I hope one week more will fit it to be sent to the several States where it must be finished, this I hope will at least check the growing evil, part of the plan is taxation which I imagine will amount to 15 or 18,000,000 & perhaps a much larger sum taken out of cir culation by other methods, however this must not be made public at present as the plan is not compleat and may undergo some altera tions. Very large quantities of counterfit money is now circulating, which will make it necessary to call in such of the Emissions as have been most adulterated. We have had no late accots from Europe but have not the least reason to think but matters are going on well there and Count D’Estaing I hope is working good for us in the West Indies. I hope another Campaign will put us in possession of Canada 8c Nova Scocia, or rather we shall compel Britain to quit those places, 8c then no doubt they will be added to the Confederacy. The post ought to have come in to day but I suppose he has been stoped by the weather. I shall be obliged to you for a copy of Your Proscription Act or any other acts that may pass from time to time. Was any notice taken of the recommendation of Congress to make Laws to enable them to call their servants to account? If this is not done I hope it will be soon. I also hope the executive authority will keep a watchful Eye on the Servants of the public especialy those who handle the public money. Many of those Rascals deserve hanging. Please to present my
