December 16, 1778 351 by which Act Mr Thomson was pleased to think himself injured. He afterwards insulted Congress by an Apologetic Letter, denying that he had called them Rascals, but acknowledging the application of the term Rascal to the Honorable Mr McKean, wantonly adds Villain, and twice repeats that he had said that Gentleman was a Rascal and a Villain, this Letter stands recorded at full length on the Journal, Thomson is voted to be guilty of a breach of Privilege, and there the subject rests. He is in favor with a party who seem determined to support him at the expence of the honor of Congress. Mr. Deane’s mischievous publication alarmed me, the House would take no other notice of it, but such as Mr Deane has very improperly display’d to the World in the light of concession. Failing in my at tempt to arouse Congress to the vindication of their honor, I felt for my own, and Resolved to descend from the Chair to the floor where I could be of the most real service to my Country. The Act of Resignation must speak for itself. I felt it to be right, and therefore I believed it to be so, but the party of Deanites were pleased to catch at the concluding sentence, which I would not for any consideration have omitted, because I was persuaded good consequences would follow the strong reproof, and perhaps continue at least a fortnight. A friend of mine unsolicited moved the House on the 10th Insant for thanks to the late President. He was jockey’d by “the manner in which business is transacted here” and this repeated daily until Yes terday, when I in modest terms demanded a testimonial of my Con duct, intimating the honor and interests of Congress and the States were as nearly concerned as my own. If I had merited censure I would kiss the Rod, but I could no longer bear to be kept in a state of implied censure, that I held my Act of Resignation to be the best Act of my Life, that if any Gentleman had taken offence at the con cluding words, I had to say in Apology, that I did not mean to give the occasion &c &c the particulars of which shall be laid before Your Excellency by the next or some early opportunity. I then retired from the House, and after some debate it was resolved without a division “That the thanks of this House be given to the Honorable Henry Laurens Esquire, late President, for his conduct in the Chair and in the execution of Public Business.” This comprehends an ac knowledgment of propriety of conduct within doors and without, and an approbation of the late Presidents “sundry reasons as it is en tered on the Journal, for resigning. From this brief sketch Your Excellency will be further impressed with a knowledge of “the man ner in which Business is transacted here” and see that my repeated complaints have been well grounded. I hope my Countrymen will approve of my conduct. Now I am releas’d from the Chair, my attention shall be bent to the investigation of the Secret and Com mercial Committees Accounts, and to such other Business as comes
