352 December 16, 1778 within the compass of my abilities forsaking all thoughts of my private Affairs for some time longer. Mr Deane, notwithstanding his groundless assertions that the Ears of Congress were shut against him, and that he had prepared to return to France and such stuff, is not ready now, at the end of twelve days with his Narrative, and ’tis not impossible that Common Sense has thrown him twelve days further back. I intreat Your Excellency will not believe that I have any improper attachment to the Lees. I am a little of opinion that upon the whole information we shall see an explication of an old proverb, although I am persuaded we shall not "come by our Right.” I am distress’d for want of time to inform Your- Excellency more minutely on this and other subjects of importance. I would wish that until I shall be enabled to do so, there may be no publication of what I have now the honor of transmitting. I am, With the highest Respect & Esteem &c. H.L. 3 LB (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 16). 1 See Laurens’ Speech to Congress, December 9, 1778. 2 At this point an asterisk was inserted to key the following note at the foot of this page of the LB: “See appendix No 1 relative to Gen Thomson.” This item is not among the enclosures listed at the end of this letter, for which see the following note. • The following list of “Papers inclosed with this” appears at the end of this letter: “Resignation of the President of Congress. “Duplicate of the Letter the 7th Inst. “Copy of a Letter from His Excellency J. Jay Esq President of Congress. “5 Newspapers from the 5th Instant.” Charles Thomson to Charles Lee Dear Sir, Deer 16. 1778. I had the honour of your two letters requesting a copy of the pro ceedings of Congress relative to your trial. I shall always deem myself happy in an opportunity of serving you. But if you desire anything more than the resolution confirming the sentence I should be much obliged if you would take the trouble to apply to Congress that I may not incur censure. 1 I am Sir, Your obedt. humble Servt. Cha. Thomson. MS not found: reprinted from Lee Papers (NYHS Colls.), 6 (1873): 275. 1 For Lee’s December 17 letter to President Jay requesting the minutes of pro ceedings relative to Congress’ confirmation of the sentence of his court-martial, "from which I shall be able to Judge on what principle I have been condemn’d, for at present I am utterly in the dark on this head,” see ibid.; and PCC, item 158, fol. 129.
