December 19, 1778 359 December 25 “that Congress has unanimously adopted my advice.” See Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 406-7, 409-11, 414, 419-20, 429, 432, 444; Elizabeth Kite, "Conrad Alexandre Gerard, Minister to America from Louis XVI of France,” Records of the American Catholic Historical Society 33 (March 1922): 75-91; and John Fell’s Diary, January 14, 1779, note 1. The maneuvering that preceded Temple’s departure from Philadelphia was more complex, however, than Gerard’s explanations suggest. On the one hand, public pressure was applied indirectly to delegates such as Adams through the press. And on the other, one Edward Leger, a somewhat mysterious and impecunious former naval lieutenant, who had previously received aid in Paris from Benjamin Franklin, delivered a now missing "paper of information” directly to Congress on December 14 to prod the delegates to action. Although its substance is not known, it achieved the desired result when Congress immediately appointed a committee consisting of William Henry Drayton, James Duane, and Thomas McKean to confer with the president of Pennsylvania, Joseph Reed, for the purpose of “detecting and securing persons of suspicious characters in Philadelphia.” See PCC, item 102, 4:57-58; and JCC, 12:1216. Subsequently, McKean and Drayton proceeded to meet with Reed and the Pennsylvania Council’s vice-president and secretary, George Bryan and Timothy Matlack, in the company of Temple, the result of which was explained by Reed in the following letter to the Massachusetts Council. Although its date is uncertain, Reed’s file copy of it was endorsed “1779, January 2d.” “The very great Respect which I have, both in a publick & private Character, for the Hon. Board at which you preside, as well as Veneration for the State to whose Services & Sufferings America is so much indebted, have induced me to address you by the Hands of the Hon. Mr. Temple, & to state some Particulars, which may elucidate the Conduct pursued by Persons in Authy here with Respect to that Gentleman. As his Views of Business seemed wholly directed to the Hon. Congress, I had only the Favour of a Visit from him, & not being within to receive it, had no Communication of the very honourable Testimonials which he had brought from his native State. The Suspicions & Rumors which circulated very freely for some Time, occasioned a very general Caution & Diffidence, but, I believe, attended with no Act of disrespect; & in this Train Matters would probably have continued with out any public Notice of Mr. Temple on the Part of the State. But, on the 14th Inst., a Committee of Congress communicated to me, as President of the State, the enclosed Resolve, stating at the same time that Mr. Temple was considered by that honourable Body as an Object of that Resolve, & requesting me to cooperate with them to carry it into effect. “In order that it might be done with the greatest Attention to Mr. Temple’s Feelings, I sent the Secretary of the Council to wait on him & request his Company at my own House, on the Evening of the 18th. There, two of the Committee, The Hon. Mr. Drayton & Mr. McKean also attended, Mr. Duane declining being pres ent—The Vice President of this State & Secretary being also present: the Gentlemen from Congress entered into a very free Conference with Mr. Temple with respect to his remaing so long in England, the Circumstances of his Return to this Country, & his Visit to this City; which terminated in an Intimation on their Part that the public Interests would be but advanced by shortening his Residence at the seat of Congress.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:138-39. In the face of such pressures, which were exerted from many directions, Temple apparently left the city for Boston on December 20 and after several months in Massachusetts returned to England in May 1779. Despite the failure of his mission, many American leaders continued to esteem him, and he remained in the good graces of high British officials, who in 1785 appointed him as the first British consul general in New York. See Lewis Einstein, Divided Loyalties: Americans in England during the War of Independence (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1933), chap. 3. See also Adams to Bowdoin, September 3, to Elizabeth Adams, December 13, and to John Winthrop, December 21, 1778.
