360 December 19, 1778 John Fell’s Diary Deer 19th. [1778] Saturday. Genl Lee to be furnish’d with all the Proceedings from the Reccords relating to his tryal; Motion to conferr with G1 Wash ington on ways and means to reduce the Expences of the Army, referrd to a Committee of 5. vizt. Laurens, Duane, Geary, Ellsworth, & Smith. 1 Dined with General De Portaile. MS (DLC). 1 This committee, which has been designated the Committee of Conference, was appointed this day in response to Washington’s suggestion that “a personal confer ence” with Congress might be useful for planning the 1779 campaign and reaching solutions to several problems confronting the army. See John Jay to Washington, December 18, 1778, note 2. Arriving in Philadelphia the evening of the 22d, Wash ington was officially received by Congress on December 24 and remained in Phila delphia until February 2 conferring with the committee. A number of letters to Washington from the committee and its chairman James Duane, plus an extract from the minutes of one of their conferences, are printed below under the dates January 9, 10, 11, 24, 25, 28, and 31, 1779. John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 19th Dec’r 1778. It would give me Pleasure if the Business of Congress did not engross so much of my Time, as that I might daily devote an Hour or two to my Friends. Unfortunately however for me, and I may add for the Public, so it is, that altho the greater Part of our Time is spent in Council, our Dispatch is not proportionate to the Exigency of our affairs, and we experience the Inconvenience of those Delays which invariably attend the Deliberations of public assemblies, as semblies in which men do not always speake to inform themselves or others. I am happy, however, to inform you that the principal object of my appointment will probably be obtained and I have some Reason to flatter myself that New York will be the better for my coming here. Time however is necessary to prepare for the Introduction of the Business. To precipitate might be to ruin it, and tho I am extremely desirous of returning as soon as possible, my Inclinations shall yield to the public good. The maps & Papers relative to our Boundaries, which if I remem ber right, are in the Hands of Mr. R. Yates, together with Copies of all such Letters to Congress &c. as respect Vermont, ought to be sent us without Delay by some trusty messenger. 1 I wish to appear with our whole Strength. My Respects to Mrs. Clinton. I am, dear Sir, your Friend & Serv’t, John Jay.
