December 20, 1778 361 Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:405-6. 1 Jay continued to remain frustrated at Clinton’s inability to comply with this request. “I have not yet been able to find the Papers & Maps respecting the Boundaries of this State,” Clinton explained in a letter of February 9, 1779. "I fear they were destroyed at Kingston.” Ibid., p. 555. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Dr Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 20th, 1778 On our arrival here which was on the 9th of this month, we found the City much engaged by a publication which you will find en closed, and in which Mr Dean has made some very home accusations. We found it had occasioned some little ferment in Congress, and that Mr. Laurens resigned the chair, because they would not take notice of it, as an affront to their dignity, we thought it but prudent to decline going in for a few days until this little fracas was over, leaving those to decide on punctilios who had been best acquainted with personal Characters. On our going into Congress we found them engaged principally on finance and that they had spent time in maturing something which we totally disapprove. I will endeavour to give you the general outlines as perfectly as they are yet come to our knowledge. Two Emissions are to be called out of circulation viz. 20th May 1777, 11th April 1778—on pretence of their being much counter feited, they are by Authority of Congress to be called in by the 1st of June next and not afterwards to be redeemed. They are to be replaced to the proprietors by Loan certificates or New Bills. 1 Our objections are, that Congress by its own authority can not prevent the currency of money which our Laws [made] a legal tender, because that implies a power to suspend or repeal our Laws. That the time is too short for our people so dispersed as they are and so circumstanced as not to be able to receive notice in time sufficient to enable them to bring in their money, that it is not in the power of Congress to declare any Emission of money irredeemable at any certain time, because it implies a power to destroy at pleasure the security which the people have in all the property vested in paper money, that all that should be done is to deny its currency, and leave to the States to enact Laws and fix the times of their operation for that purpose. We were however overruled, and we find that our Country will be subjected to the payment of a heavy debt—borrowed at an exchange of ten for one—and which we must discharge at par, with six percent interest. This debt too is incurred to commercial Individuals, who alone have money to lend, and who have acquired it, by engrossing and extortion. Thus shall we realise fortunes for Individuals, and subject our Country to a debt, which were it not for loans, a little
