362 December 20, 1778 industry would pay off, but which Loans make heavier than if all we have borrowed, had been gold & silver. I believe this michief is inevitable, and having long since foreseen it; I always was averse to giving the powers of borrowing and emiting to Congress by the Con federation, a power, which I am persuaded will always be used for purposes partial, and unjust, and either to serve particular States, or Individuals to the prejudice of the whole community. Besides what I have mentioned, a Vote is passed for raising by Tax fifteen millions of dollars 2 —a sum which I am persuaded is not equal to our abilities; but this simple and unexceptionable mode for sinking the excess of paper Currency is not so much favored in Congress as the intricate, injurious and ineffectual mode of Loans—and the reason is obvious enough—Loans give advantage to the States who have furnished supplies at extravagant prices, and therefore abound with money, by giving them an opportunity of lending at a high interest when money is depreciated two for one, to be paid here after when it will be restored to its original value. As you will see Mr. Harnett, I will not be more particular at present, he can give you a just idea of our expenses. Mr. Hill and myself have paid one Bill for the first two days we were in Town amounting to Forty pounds, and the prices were extravagant, I as sure you the Articles were few and moderate. The City is a scene of gaiety and Dissipation, public assemblies every fortnight and pri vate Balls every night, in all such business as this we propose that Mr. Penn shall represent the whole state. We will give you our thoughts on some things to be laid before the Assembly in a separate letter. 3 Mr. Hill desires me to present his compliments to you. He will write to you a private letter by the next opportunity. I am Dr. Sir with sincere regard and esteem your Obdt. Servt. Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar: Governor’s Letter Books). 1 See John Fell’s Diary, December 16, 1778. 2 JCC, 12:1223. 8 See North Carolina Delegates to Caswell, December 22, 1778. John Fell’s Diary [December 20, 17781 20th. Sunday. Commercial Committee met at Mr. Laurens, agreed to meet tomorrow morning at 9. oClock to choose a Secretary. MS (DLC).
