3G8 December 22, 1778 of any Mode of supporting a Family in this Country, is desireous of returning to his Friends and Connexions. There is no Law I believe to prevent his leaving the State, but the impossibility of obtaining a direct passage to Great Britain from any other place than New-York, has induced him to pay his respects to you, and to solicit a passport to that City, from whence he will be enabled to sail directly for Eng land. A passage round by the West Indies would be extremely dis agreeable and inconvenient as he intends to take his Daughter with him. 1 I can see no impropriety in granting this Gentlemans request. The intelligence any individual can communicate in our Situation will be of little Consequence to the Enemy; But if you are the least appre hensive of Danger on that Score, Mr. Ragg I believe will readily sub scribe any parole you may think proper to direct. If Sir upon inquiry you should not see cause for detaining him, it would give me great pleasure and Satisfaction to have him supplied with such papers as may enable him and his Daughter to pass on to New-York unmolested. Your attention, Sir, to this Letter will be very obliging to him who has the Honor to be with the highest personal respect and Esteem your most obdt. and very hble. Servt. John Henry Junr. RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 For the Maryland Council’s March 31, 1779, order granting Andrew Ragg per mission “to go with his Daughter into the City of New York in order to get a Passage from thence to Gr Britain,” see Md. Archives, 21:333. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee My dear Bror. Phila, Deer. 22d. 1778 Publications still continue in abundance to blacken the Lees & make Deane the greatest Man in the World. The cry is in their favor, no one has dared to enter the lists with them but Common Sense, who tho he has said a great deal of truth, &: much to the purpose, was as far as I can understand very little regarded, it having been artfully put about that he was hired, & the poor fellow got a beating from An Officer, it is said for having wrote the peice. He unfortunately made some mistakes, which are taken notice of by his Answeror Plain Truth, & throws a discredit upon the rest. 1 It is really a shame, that when so many things can be alledged against this man, that the public shou’d be so abused, because Congress will not go thro’ the business. They have done nothing yet, in the mean time he continues to insult them. After having long pester’d the Congress by Letters to hear him, in justification of himself, never hinting that he has any discovery to make, urging the necessity he was under of going immediately to
