December 23, 1778 372 John Fell’s Diary [December 23, 1778] 23d Wednesday. Mr Deane attending this morning, did not go to Committee, Genl Washington Visited Congress; At 6 P M Genl Thompson with two witnesses were Examin’d at the Barr. NB Genl Lee & Lt Coll Laurens fought a Duel. 2 MS (DLC). 1 General Washington’s visit to Congress this day was apparently an informal one; his formal presentation to Congress occurred the next day. JCC, 12:1250. His arrival in Philadelphia was also noted by Samuel Holten, whose diary entry for this day reads: “Congress Sit from 9 ’till 3 & from 6 ’till 9. G. W. arrive!, here last eveng.” MDaAr. 2 John Laurens challenged and shot Gen. Charles Lee in a duel because, as he explained to Alexander Hamilton, he believed Lee “had spoken of General Wash ington in the grossest and most opprobrious terms of personal abuse.” See Alex ander Hamilton, The Papers of Alexander Hamilton, ed. Harold C. Syrett et al., 26 vols. (New York: Columbia University Press, 1961-81), 1:602-4. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir Philadela Decemr. 23d. 1778. The Necessity of making some inquiry on the Subjects contained in your Letter of the 10th Decemr and the Reference of the Resolutions of the General Assembly to the Marine Committee, upon which no Report has yet been made, has deprived us of the Honour of answer ing your Letter,so soon as we intended. 1 The Expedition against Florida, always was, and still is, in our opinion a dangerous and ruinous project, attended with a certain considerable Loss and Expense, without the smallest Hope of Success or advantage; And altho’ Congress have not re-considered or in any way countermanded their former orders and recommendations; yet we think it not improper privately and in Confidence to inform you, that there does not appear to us any hope of Success in prosecuting this Expedition. 2 The re-enforcement that we have reason to expect have been sent into that Country from the City of New York; the Distance and Nature of the Country through which the Troops are to pass, before they reach St. Augustine, the place of Action, joined to the Resistance they will probably meet with in Georgia, and the length of the Block ade (three Months at least) which it is said will be absolutely necessary to reduce the Garrison, fortify us in the opinion we have formed. By this we do not mean to throw impediments in the way to stop the Expedition, but simply to express our own apprehensions of the Ex-
