374 December 23, 1778 I made mention to you in my last. It is that he has been concerned in counterfieting Money—such a low mean villanous Assertion cou’d have been only formed by one of the same Caracter—but it serves to shew that the most virtuous & upright of us cannot at all Times escape the Tongue of Slander & Calumny. He has resigned his Seat in Congress, so has Harvey—& succeeded by General Nelson & Mr. Fleming, the latter I am unacquainted with, the former you have seen & know. I lament that we shall not have our Friend Banister with us more—but to let you into a Secret, he proposes soon to change his State & become a married Man—he says it is con trary to his Religion to live any longer single. This severe Weather makes me think & fear that we shall have a trying Jorney to Philadelphia—we propose to set out as soon after the Middle of the Month as the Weather will permit—& had ordered a Vessel to attend, which did attend to take our Bed, heavy Baggage &c to the Head of Elk—but to this the Frost says no—the narrow Waters are all congealed & renders the Scheme abortive—therefore we must take the Chance of procuring a Bed as we can when we get to the City—another Disappointment which sits heavily upon me, & equally affects you is, we proposed to send up some Hams, Beef, Wine &c.” Gouverneur Morris Papers, NNC. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress [December 23, 1778] 1 John Donaldson 2 being sworn saith that, That on a certain Evg when there was a Disturbance between Gen. Thompson & Mr. Mc Kean, at the Coffee House in this City Dep[onen]t was there. That he observed Gen Thomson come into the Coffee House & go into a Box with Judge Atlee, Mr McKean 8c Mr Evans, that his Attention was drawn to the Box by Gen Thompsons speaking in a higher tone than usual & he thereupon went to the Corner of the Box. That the first thing he heard was Gen Thompsons accusing Mr McKean with using him rascally 8c behaving to him as a Scoundrel—that Gen Thompson then complained of Mr McKeans having sent a Summons for him at Carlisle 8c charging him with harbouring Deserters 8cc. 8c further that it was owing to him 8c some other such Rascals that he was reduced to his present melancholy Situation of being obliged to quit his Family. That Mr McKean excused his conduct as to the affair of Mr McKinley & the Exchange—that he had formerly had a friendship for the Gen. but found him to be a dirty Fellow, a Bully 8c he thinks a Scoundrel or some Word of that Import. That Gen Thompson after Mr McKean had called him a dirty Fellow asked him if he dare be a Gent, to which Mr M Kean replied that he was his Superior, which Gen Thompson denied. That as the Gen went away from the Box Mr McKean raised himself from his seat 8c said to the Gen. I will make your Heart ache for this, to which the Gen answered God Damn you if you do I will make your Bones ache. That he heard Mr McKean when speaking of the Exchange of Govr Franklin for McKinley say he had acted accord ing to his Directions. That the Conversations abt. the Summons at
