December 25, 1778 383 the entire Congress with their own support, so that it could be decided how to make these propositions to the Court of Spain. That is as far as we have been able to advance up to now; we shall see what comes of it; certainly I shall not lose sight of this important objective. The French Minister promised me that he would write to his Court in order to find out whether the King our Sire will support it. If His Majesty approves, his minister to the French Court can begin to confer with the ministers whom these states have in Paris, who ordinarily do nothing more than listen, inform the Congress, and await its instructions. “As the territory of the interior of Luisiana or Illinois is most important to the members of Congress from the province of Virginia, because it borders on that state and because a majority of the investors in the company mentioned above are settled in Virginia, it is likely that the representatives from Virginia will regard with disfavour the separation of those lands and anything which may lead to the ruin of that company and the plans it has made. Therefore, if His Majesty is pleased to resolve that to take possession of that territory is in his Royal interest, it ought to be negotiated immediately and definitively with the Congress, without giving time for those investors and the rest of the Virginians to comprehend it, for they can cavil and introduce dissension among the members of Congress to thwart that negotiation.” Indiferente General, Legajo 1606, Archivo General de Indias, Seville (Aileen Moore Topping translation, DLC). Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee My dear Bror. Phila. Deer. 25th. 1778 The day on which my last Letter was wrote, Mr. Deane produced to Congress his written narrative of his transactions 8c accusations. 1 The first the most pompous bloated thing that ever was on paper. The only charges against Doctr. Lee are that he is suspicious, jealous, affrontive to every body he has any business with, & very disgusting to the whole french Nation, by his hatred for them, which he dis covers by all his words 8c actions. Mr. W. Lee is mean, 8c goes shares with the Agents he appointed. The whole is most grossly abusive of both of them. The Party sucked it in, as nectar 8c Ambrosia; 8c say he has acquitted himself most honorably. They whisper about that as they are very moderate, 8c wou’d not injure any body unheard, they think the best way is to recall them that they justify themselves. This in fact, under the appearance of moderation, is the thing they are working for. They have of their Party ready immediately to fill all the places; 8c then every thing being in their own hands, we shall have fine work, with the trade which the Continent must carry on for our large advances in Europe. Altho Deane had two Colieages, the word We, is never used in his Narrative, I did everything. I procured all the supplies, bro’t about the Alliance, procured D’Estaings fleet, conducted them to America, discover’d the designs of the Enemy 8c baffled them, in short, I have establish’d the Liberty 8c independance of America; whose safety 8c happiness now depends upon my vigi lance. You are sufficiently acquainted with human nature, to know
