December 31, 1778 393 10,000 Negroes— very great quantities of Merchandize—150 to 200 Sail of Ships & other Vessels for transporting the provision & Negroes—Warlike Stores &c. We have no fleet to retake the place—if we call foreign aid, it will be ineffectual—because four fifty Gun Ships & sea frigates within will bid defiance to the whole fleet of France. Georgia will fall immediately or may be over run by the Troops from St. Augustine & 500 Indians. MS (DSoC). In the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed by him: “Notes from whence I remonstrated to Congress on the danger to which So Carolina & Georgia were exposed in December 1778—which I had often done at former periods.” 1 As Laurens’ endorsement indicates, these notes consist of the points he raised in Congress to remind the delegates of the vulnerability of South Carolina and Georgia to British invasion—something that had been a source of concern to him since at least September 1778. Although the notes cannot be assigned a more specific date, Laurens probably did not compose them until after his resignation as president of Congress on December 9. For a related document written after Con gress learned of the invasion of Georgia, see Laurens’ Notes on a Georgia Cam paign, January 20, 1779. Henry Laurens’ Proposed Resolve on Silas Deane [post December 31, 1778] 1 That his having been engaged in private Commercial Trade while he was acting in a Public Character in France his further & more exten sive engagements of the same nature since his arrival in America & at a time when he was strenuously endeavouring to impress upon Congress a belief of the utility of & even necessity for his return to Europe in a Public Character do not entitle him to that approbation which he wishes to infer from the past silence of this House, that his conduct in these respects particularly, is highly reprehensible, altogether in consistent with his professions of disinterestedness in the Public service 8c contradictory to his declaration that from the “Moment he engaged in the foreign affairs of Congress he put everything private out of the question.” MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 It is not known for what purpose Laurens drafted this proposed resolve, but it seems likely that he was responding to two specific passages contained in the “narrative” Silas Deane read in Congress on December 22, 23, and 31, 1778. These passages read as follows: (1) “It is now three years since my engaging in the foreign affairs of Congress . . ., but from the moment I engaged I put everything private out of the question.” Papers in Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, ed. Edw'ard D.
