394 January 1, 1779 Ingraham (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six Society, 1855), p. 58. And (2) “Not to have merited the approbation of Congress, situated as I have been, neces sarily must be to deserve their severest censures.” Ibid., p. 74. Although no evidence has been found to indicate precisely when Laurens wrote it, the document has been placed here so that it may be studied in the context of the reading of Deane’s “narrative,” which was completed this day. John Fell’s Diary Januy 1st 1779. Fryday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Letters from G Gates to G Washington and answers relating the Canada Expidition. Letter from the Governor of Connecticut to their Delegates relating to the better allowance to Officers referrd to a Committee of 3 vizt. Mr Smith, Mr Root & Mr Atley. 1 Letter from Israil Ward 2 of the State of New York, relating to his house being burnt by the Enemy, Referrd to a Committee of 3. vizt. Draton, Burk, & Fell. Finance. President requested to invite Genl Washington to Dine. At 6 P M Commercial Committee. MS(DLC). 1 For further information on the Connecticut officers’ petition, see Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, January 4, 1779, note 2. 2 That is, Stephen Ward. See John Jay to Stephen Ward, January 15, 1779. Daniel Roberdeau to Joseph Reed Sir, Congress, Jany 1st, 1779. The proceedings of Congress respecting the Honble Chief Justice McKean and General Thomson are ordered to be made out imme diately, and shall be furnish to The Honble The Council, agreeable to their desire, signified in a Letter from you to the Delegates of this state of yesterday’s date, with which they are just now honored. 1 I am, with the Compts of the season, Sir, Yr most ob. & very hum. ser., Daniel Roberdeau 2 MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:187. 1 Although the council’s December 31 letter requesting a copy of Congress’ pro ceedings on the McKean-Thompson dispute has not been found, its order of the same date requesting the delegates to transmit this evidence, "so far as Consistent with their duty to Congress they are [at] liberty to make the same known," is in Pa. Council Minutes, 11:653. See also Thomas McKean to the Public, December 30, 1778, note 1. 2 Another matter of concern to the Pennsylvania Council during this period was the attendance of its delegates to Congress. A December 31 letter from the council to its absent delegates (apparently intended for John Armstrong, Sr., Edward
