396 January 3, 1779 early attachd himself to Men of different Sentiments from those which most if not all your Delegates brought with them from your Country & strenuously maintaind. This Difference of Sentiment was said to arise from local Attachments, but in Reality they arose from different Principles &: Views. What Mr Ds political Principles were if he had any I never could learn. His Views always appeard to me commercial & interrested. Whether I was mistaken or not Time perhaps will soon discover. He was very little known in America till the year 75, if at all in Europe. The other took an early, decided and active Part in Support of our great Cause. In London he had a great Share in the open opposition made to the Tyranny of the British Court & their Measures respect ing America. There he turnd his Attention from the Practice of Physick to which he had been regularly educated in Edinburgh, to the Study of the Law. This he did by the Advice of some of the most able Advocates for the Liberties of America, from the opinion they had conceivd of his promising Usefulness to that Cause in that Way. He answered their Prospects. He constantly aided your Agent the late Mr De Berdt 2 to whom his Knowledge of Affairs rendered his Serv ices essential. That his Pen was employd for America in General, his Junius Americanus abundantly testifies; and that, and his other Pub lications witness his Attachments to Massachusetts Bay & South Caro lina in particular. His private Letters to his Friends were written with that Freedom as well as Zeal, which would have exposd him to the Risque even of his Life from the Resentment of an unprincipled & nefarious Court, if any of them by Accident or Design had fallen into their Hands. This I know to be true. I must conclude at present with giving it to you as my fix’d Opinion, founded on particular observations, that there is a joynt Combination of political & com mercial Men to exclude all vigilant Patriots from publick Councils & Employments knowing that Vigilance & unimpeachd, unsuspected Fidelity will be an effectual Bar to the carrying such politico com mercial Plans into Execution. 3 I will write to you again by the first good Opportunity. In the mean time I am with perfect Esteem, Yr affectionate Friend FC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 That is, Arthur Lee and Silas Deane. For Adams’ "last” see Adams to Cooper, December 25,1778. 2 Dennys DeBerdt (1695-1770), the Massachusetts General Court’s agent in Lon don. 1765-1770. 2 Unbeknownst to Adams, Samuel Cooper had already been secretly retained by the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, to defend French interests in the public prints and private parlors of Boston. Gerard reported in a January 17. 1779, letter to the comte de Vergennes that Cooper had been retained for "200 livres Sterling” annually to plead French causes. Cooper apparently camrht Gerard’s attention after coming to the defense of the comte d’Estaing, with whom Cooper
