January 3, 1779 397 had become friendly when the French fleet put into Boston for repairs following its encounter with a storm off Rhode Island in August 1778. In approaching Cooper, Gerard had been able to use Joseph de Valnais, the recently appointed French consul in Boston. See Charles W. Akers, The Divine Politician: Samuel Cooper and the American Revolution in Boston (Boston: Northeastern University Press, 1982), pp. 265-303; William Stinchcombe, The American Revolution and the French Alliance (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1969), pp. 66-67, 118-24. The irony of Adams’ relation with Cooper at this time is underscored in the following passage from Stinchcombe’s study summarizing Gerard’s purposes in employing Cooper to promote French policies in New England: “Although Gerard did not admit it, he hired Cooper in an effort to diminish the influence of Samuel Adams in his home state.” Ibid., p. 122. For Cooper’s considerable skills as a propa gandist, see also John C. Buchanan, "The Justice of America’s Cause: Revolutionary Rhetoric in the Sermons of Samuel Cooper,” New England Quarterly 50 (March 1977): 101-24. James Duane to George Clinton Sir, Philad. 3d Jany. 1779. I have now the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excel lency’s favor to me, and to the Delegates collectively. 1 The letter with the enclosures were delivered to the President, as we consider the sub ject of the revolt from our state particularly within his province; he being delegated for the express purpose. I cannot but think he will be at a loss for the maps whenever he finds an opportunity to take it up: your Excellency’s remarks ought certainly to hasten a determina tion: for a more favorable conjuncture than the present is hardly to be expected. Mr. Jay has not yet held any conference with his col leagues on this interesting business: but intends soon to form a reso lution, and prepare the way for its successful reception. 2 With respect to your favor to me individually it is only necessary to observe that any assurance for the faithful application of the Specie remitted to you by Congress must be totally Superfluous. 3 When I joined Congress I found they had for some time been engaged in the business of Finance, but had made an inconsiderable progress. As Chairman of the Treasury I was officially called to an active part. It was not till yesterday that Congress agreed on a plan for funding the money emitted in Bills of Credit; a copy will be transmitted to your Excellency by the President; to give conveyance to which I have ventured to detain the express two days. If the dif ferent legislatures heartily support the arrangement proposed by Con gress, I flatter myself the public credit will be restored: for sufficient and known funds being once established for sinking the debt in a reasonable period, the good sense as well as monied interest of America will be on the side of government. The danger lies not in the past; but the future increase of paper money, should the war unhappily be protracted. To prevent such increase it is proposed to
