January 3, 1779 405 I look for good Reasons. Give my Compliments to Mrs Schuyler, wish her a great many happy years, And tell her that knowing her prejudices on this Subject & how much she wishes you to retire, I must insist on excluding her from our Councils, untill I can be personally heard. I know from Experience I can convince her Judgement. General Arnold is mending. He is engagd to a Miss Peggy Ship ping one of the finest & most agreeable Ladies in this City. His Leg resembles Uncle Toby’s Groin. I heard two Ladies of our Acquaint ance in deep debate about this same wounded Leg. They were as much perplexed as the Widow Wadman. 3 In the mean time it is the only obstacle to the Lover’s Happiness. Duer is still here. He has taken up the Pen for Deane against the Employers of Payne (Com mon Sense). You know them all. Lady Kitty in the mean time must have Patience. He confesses his marriage with her is soon to be cele brated. The Devil take Payne say I. Congress you will see by the publications give free Scope to the Press. I hope they will no longer be chargd with Congressional Pride. General Washington has been here ten days by order of Congress. He seems impatient to return to the Army: but the Business for which he was sent to be advised with, will detain him a few days longer. My friend Taylor writes me that you are at Saraghtoga & expresses Pain for your safety. Rashness is a folly you ought not to be chargd with, especially when it may extend to a numerous Family. Put your Family in Security & go to Business. The times are pressing 8c require Vigilance & Wisdom—you can’t be spared. Farewell. Accept the com- plimfents] of the Season to you & yours; & Believe me Sans Ceremony your affect 8c Obedt sert. Jas Duane RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 Neither letter has been found. 2 For Schuyler’s determination to resign his continental commission, see John Jay to Schuyler, January 15, 1779, note 1. 8 The perplexity of the Widow Wadman with Uncle Toby's groin injury is re counted at length in vols. 7-9 of Laurence Sterne’s Tristram Shandy. William Floyd to George Clinton Sr. Philadelphia January 3d. 1779. On Account of the many Difficulties and Disappointments which I met with in Crossing the North River, I did not arrive here untill the 1st Instant. The next day I attended Congress, 1 and after the usual Business of the Morning, which is the Reading of Publick Letters and Receiving Reports from the Several Committees, At one
