412 January 4, 1779 Your letter, and the Petition of the Officers in the Connecticut Line to our Assembly have been laid before Congress, and referred to a Committee who have not yet made their report, 2 possibly the Assembly will not think it proper to proceed any further on that subject, than to make some reasonable provision for the support of their families, in the manner already proposed, until they hear further from Congress on that head, which we hope will be in a few days. Indeed the Officers and Soldiers in the Army seem to be, in many respects, on the same footing with our Salarymen, orphans, widows, &c. and hope some measures may soon be taken, which will operate to the administering justice to the whole, as near as these calamitous times will possibly admit of. A Foreign Loan is in contemplation, but how soon it may be effected is at present uncertain. By the best information we can obtain, the several, or most of the States, in the Union, have taken measures to fund their own bills, and have paid, and are now paying, in, the several taxes apportioned to them the last year, and all seem inclined to tax as high as possible. You enquire, Sir, why the Articles of Confederation are not con cluded. We have only to answer that the States of Maryland and Delaware have not yet acceded, and we are waiting with impatience for their union, and as the Articles drawn comprehend the Thirteen States jointly, it is at least a doubt whether the assent already gained from eleven States is not founded on the joint consent of the whole thirteen, and unless the remaining two join, the whole is void, and will make it necessary to send back to each State for their approba tion, if no more than eleven States unite in the Confederation, which would take up much time, beside the inconvenience, which might attend, therefore are still waiting, in hopes of the compliance of the other two. As to what is done in consequence of the Circular Letters sent out by the Committee to superintend the Commissary’s and Quarter Master’s Department, are not able to acquaint you, as the Committee have not made report, therefore must refer to Mr. Sherman, who is one of that Committee, 3 for information on that head. The unhappy situation of our western frontiers, as well as those of New-York, are truly melancholy, and demand the greatest attention, both as respects the present inhabitants, former settlers, and the supplies derived from them. The Board of War have reported an addition to Colo. Hartley’s Regiment, who is a w’orthy, spirited, and attentive Officer, and now on the frontier part at Wyoming: 4 we hope further additions will be made for their defence. General Washington is now in Town, on the request of Congress, and a Committee appointed to confer with him on the subject of any new, or future operations, and hope something to effect will soon be done.
