January 4, 1779 415 William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 4th Jany. 1779 By the means of bad Roads, bad weather, or some other cause, there is now three Mails due from the Eastward, the last letters I received from N. Hampshire were dated in Novr. It is said the weather is colder here than has been for many Years past, I therefore conclude you have had a severe winter hitherto. Perhaps it may be owing to the severity of the season that we have no intelligence from Europe. By the last authentic intelligence from New-York they were intirely out of flour, & have but very little Rice, they have advice of the sailing of a fleet from Cork in Octor., which they are apprehensive are intercepted as none of them are yet arrived, we are also informed that 20 sail of outward bound Transports were lately drove ashore by the Ice most of which it’s said will be lost. As you may have a curiosity to know how much paper money is in Circulation I inclose you a particular accot of all that has been Emitted by Congress. Perhaps it may not be proper to make it very public. I shall rely on your discretion to make such use of it as pru dence may dictate. If it should be propagated that a larger sum has been Emitted you will have it in your power to contradict such a re port. You will also find inclosed an accot. of the perticular Emissions & Denominations that have been discovered here to have been Coun terfeited, these I think have been advertised & perticularly discribd. A plan of finance which has been a long time under consideration, is at last compleated, and I hope it will have the desired effect, it cer tainly will have an immediate favorable operation if the States will exercise their powers to further the views of Congress, I shall transmit you a copy of this plan by next post. I hope you will secure a tenant for the farm at Kittery as soon as possible, if it should be let alone till the spring you will be put to great difficulty, even if you should be able to get one at any rate. Let me hear how you go on with your business at Dartmouth &: if you want any information that I can collect this way respecting Mills &c 8cc. I wish to have a copy of the Acts passed the last Session, which you mentioned in Your last. Remember me with affection to Your Mrs. W Adieu, Yours very affectionately, WW RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers).
