418 January 5, 1779 tinuation of Common sense, & a plan calculatd by Congress for lessen ing the quantity of Paper Circulation & appreciating the Value of the remainder. Time will prove its efficacy. (Economy, Taxation & Open Ports would be infallible. I have the honor to be, with the highest Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your obedient & Most humble Servt. Henry Laurens RC (DLC: Force Collection). 1 General Sullivan’s December 15 letter to Laurens, in which he reported the departure from Rhode Island of Admiral Byron and a British fleet, is in Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 2:462. ’See John Fell’s Diary, January 4, 1779, note 1. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee Dear Brot. Phila. Jan. 5. 1779 The uncertainty of the Post last week prevented me from writing, & now from the uncertainty of this Letters reaching you before you leave home, I am at a loss what to say. Common Sense has attacked Mr Deane something in his own way, but I think has not made the best use of the materials in his hands. 1 However it appears he has stung the Gentn., for he has had the im pudence to complain to Congress, of his being abused by Payne in his official character; 2 in consequence of which we have had some warm debates, not much to Mr. Deane’s advantage. The impudence & vil lainy of this man are beyond expression; & it much increases my bad opinion of mankind, & the unfavorable prospect of our affairs, to find him so warmly supported. It appears to me at present that he will be continued in the public service, with an approbation of what he had done, but you will probably have time to be present at the shame full decision. Your peice is in the hands of Mr. Adams for his opin ion; 3 tho I am inclined to delay it till you come, as the public is likely to be intertained in the mean time. Finance is finished. 15 millions dollars raised by tax, this year, 6 millions yearly for 16 years as a sinking fund. The two last large emissions, amounting to 40 odd Millions, which are supposed most counterfeited, are called in by the 1st June, & more money given in Exchange. I fear the plan will not sufficiently check the rapid depreciation which has lately taken place. The money has allmost ceased to be current in the Eastern States. Altho we have regularly the report of the day, yet there is very little of consequence to be depended on, tho I beleive it is certain the Enemys Shiping at N. York has suffered much by the late bad weather. It is said today, that there is a fleet of Merchantmen in the mouth of this River convoyed by a French line of battle Ship, & a Dutch M[an of] War.
