420 January 6, 1779 England, was liberated or made his Escape & went over to France, from Paris he went to Dunkirk on the Encouragement of Mr. Dean & enterd Surgeon on board the Revenge Sloop, built by Order of a Come, of Congress authorizd thereto 8c at the Continental Expense, and till lately supposd to have ever since remaind Continental Property, but now so invelopd in political Commercial Mystery as that it cannot be ascertaind whether she is ownd by the United States or private Persons, or whether she is the property partly of publick 8c private. I will tell you more of this Matter when the Mystery shall be unraveld if it ever is; in the mean time remember my dear Sir what I said in my last of commercial Combinations. In the latter End of 75 one of the Characters 1 in my last was left out of the Delegation of the Colony he had represented, and a Number of his Friends gave him a sort of Certificate or Letter of Recommendation, as they had before done to one of your Delegates, 2 which led me to think it was their Opinion he needed a Prop in his own Country. Soon after, the Congress appointed a secret Committee of Commerce, with a View of procuring from abroad the necessary Articles for carrying on the War. They also appointed a secret Com mittee of Correspondence. Their Business was to form political Connections abroad, 8c to feel the pulsations of foreign Powers and particularly France. The first of these Committees engaged Mr 3 to go to that Kingdom for the purpose of their Commission 8c the Corresponding Come, took the Advantage of his intended Residence there to facilitate the salutary Purpose of their Appointment. At the same Time they wrote a Letter to Mr 4 then in England from whom the Congress had before receivd the most accurate Intelligence, requesting a Correspondence with him 8c pledging Secrecy & Confi dence. Mr 5 arrvd in France in June 76. Thus you see we had an Intelligencer to let us know what was doing or meditating against us in England; and a political Commercial Agent who was to inform us what was doing or could be done for us in France. The one had before settled a Correspondence 8c formd Connections in several parts of the Continent of Europe 8c particularly France; the other was a perfect Stranger in every Nation in Europe, but bearing Letters to considerable Men there. The one was altogether the political Man, the other had to do with Commerce as well as politicks. The one by his Address obtaind in England such Assurances as satisfied him that France would afford such Aid to America as she could consistently, the other was better skilid in the commercial Part of his Agency than the political. The one in London in the Months of March and April discoverd that he might successfully & actually did treat with a Mer chant in France of no Capital but a favorite at Court for a Supply to the Value of £200,000 sterling—the other arrivd in the Month of June following, found him out 8c was somehow concernd in forwarding the
