January 6, 1779 421 Supplys thus contracted for. I dare say you are apt to draw this Con clusion that the one was the political Negotiator in this Instance & the other the Commercial Agent only—yet, will you believe it, it is positively affirmd that the one did every thing &: the other Nothing. I will explain it to you in my next. FC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 That is, Silas Deane. 2 For the testimonial letter given to Massachusetts delegate Thomas Cushing in January 1776, see these Letters, 3:106n.2. • Deane. ‘ Arthur Lee. 5 Deane. Samuel Adams to James Warren Dear Sir, Philadelphia Jany 6 1779 In your last you ask me, “How Matters have stood since the Recall.” 1 1 will answer this Question at another Time when I shall have more Leisure; and at present only say, that Mr D arrivd here, I think, in July and in August he was admitted into the House, or, to use his own Phrase, had an Audience, in which, with as much Vanity as I ever saw in a Man of Sense, he appeard to assume to himself almost the whole Merit of all the Services that had been renderd, at least by Americans in France; as if he would have it to be believd, that one of his Colleagues had done but little if any thing, the other worse than Nothing, himself every thing. And with equal Spleen & ill Nature, he would even go out of the Path of Decency and Propriety to draw in Invectives and diminish the Character of the two Mr Lees and Mr Izzard. In short his Publication which you have seen is a Specimen of his Narrative. I have before given you my Opinion of that Performance; and shall not trouble you further upon that, any further than just to observe, that his insinuating that Mr W L remains still an Aiderman of the City of London merely because his Name is inserted in that List in the Kallendar of 78, discovers something more than Childishness and Folly. His Design seems to be at once to prejudice the Reputation of that gentleman in the Minds of his Countrymen, and to hold up the Appearance of glaring Impropriety of Conduct in Congress, in appointing an Aiderman of London an American Commissioner; and that this was done through the undue Influence of family Connection, for he take[s] particular Care to tell his Readers, that the two Brothers in Europe have two Brothers in Congress, which cannot be denied. Neither can it be denied, that they are a Family, who have been as early, as uniform, as persevering and perhaps as able American Patriots as any in the United States. Mr A
