430 January 7, 1779 MS (NNC: Morris Papers). Written by Gouverneur Morris, and endorsed by him: “Speech made in Congress ab: Mr. Payne—taken Down atterwd. from Memory to obviate MisRepresentation.” When this document was printed in his Life of Gouverneur Morris . . ., 3 vols. (Boston: Gray & Bowen, 1832), 1:200-204, Jared Sparks omitted two passages from the text (noted below), and introduced punctua tion and verbal changes which he apparently thought improved Morris’ prose. Edmund C. Burnett reprinted this document from Sparks. Burnett, Letters, 4:12-15. 1 It seems clear that Gouverneur Morris delivered this speech on January 7 during the second day of debate on the motion to dismiss Thomas Paine as secre tary of the Committee for Foreign Affairs. Although Morris did not date his manu script, he does refer in these notes to “the debates, both of yesterday and this morning.” As “yesterday” was doubtless January 6, the day debate on Paine’s dis missal began, Morris was therefore speaking on the afternoon of the seventh. See JCC, 13:30-36; and John Jay to Gerard, January 10, 1779, note. 2 For these “several motions,” see JCC, 13:31-34. 3 Remainder of paragraph omitted by Sparks. 4 Remainder of sentence omitted by Sparks. Robert Morris to the Public Philada Jany. 7th. 1779. I was not a little Surprized to find my Character attacked by a Publication in Mr Dunlaps paper of the 5th Inst, altho a little pre pared to expect by a paragraph from the same Hand in the paper of the 31st Deer, last that something or other would be said to my Dis advantage. 1 The author of these writings Stiles his performance an address to the Public on Mr. Deanes affair—why the author quitted Mr. Deane to bring me on the Stage is immaterial and as I do not mean to enter the lists with him, I shall Content myself with stating simply the Facts he has alluded to. I do not Conceive that the State I live in, have any right or Inclination to enquire into, what Mercantile Connections I have had, or now have, with Mr Deane or with any other person whatever. If Mr. Deane had any Commerce that was incon sistant with his Public Station he must Answer for it. But As I did not by becoming a Delegate for the State of Pensylva., relinquish my right of forming Mercantile Connections, I was unquestionably at Liberty to form such with Mr. Deane. My how Giving the Account this Author desires, is not to gratify him, or resign the right I contend for, but purely to remove the force of his insinuation on that Subject and to do this effectually I will candidly relate all the Commercial Con cerns I have had with Mr Deane. The first was a Concern in a Brigt and Cargo fitted out by Mr Delap of Bourdeaux for this Country one third on his own Acct, one third on Mr. Deanes & the other third on W[illing] M[orris] & Co[mpany]s Acct. This Vessell was taken & Mr Delap charged Willing Morris &: Co (whose Monies he had in hand) for their share. 2 The second, was in a Valuable Ship & Cargo fitted for America by
