432 January 7, 1779 to Congress and on the 28th Novr. informed them of my leave of absence obtaind to Settle the affairs of the late House of Willing Morris & Compy as well as my own & as some leisure time might Occur I offered in full Congress to take with me the Books of the secret Committee which were then unemployd. The Offer was accepted by general Consent, tho no resolution was entered, it being unnecessary. The day I left Congress 1 was appointed on a Committee to repair to Head Quarters from whence 1 did not return to Manheim untill the 15 Deer, at which time the Books were not arrived nor did they reach me untill the latter end of that Month. In the beginning of Feby 1778 I was informed that .some matters to my prejudice had been insinuated by a Member in Congress respect ing these Books whereupon I wrote a letter dated the 8th that month to the Commercial Committee who then had the Direction of them complaining of the injury and offering to return them and received an Answer dated the 21st, containing the following Clause “We laid this letter (meaning mine) before Congress who desired us to inform you that they wou’d have you still keep the Books in your possession and settle them as soon as you could.” Accordingly I retained them & untill they were redilivered employd on them the little leizure which remained from my private avocations & the many interruptions occa sioned by public business which pursued me in my retirement & many times obliged me to Visit York Town each visit taking up from four to six days. In the beginning of June I went to Camp at Valley Forge & remained there untill the evacuation of this City, after a Weeks stay here I returned to Manheim to bring down my Family &: Effects. I was again in Philada the 4th day of July the Anniversary of our Glorious Independance & in the course of a Week or Ten days my Effects & with them the Books in Question came down and remained unopened untill I delivered them to the Clerk of the Commercial Committee which I think was in that Month July. Thus it appears that instead of having these Books to Work in, from Octr 1777 to Septr 1778, it was in my power to do so only from the latter end of Deer, to the first of June; And instead of returning them in the same or nearly the same unsettled State they were received, these Books will shew that I Settled a Number of Accounts the Entries being made with my own hand in the Waste Book. They were afterwards Journalized & Posted by my Clerks, untill the Ledger was so full that there was not room to open any More Accounts in it. I sent to Lancaster to procure paper of the same Size to be sewed into that Book that I might go on but none suitable for the purpose could be obtained & I was obliged to shut these Books at that time. Mr. T. Ms. papers were Seized on his Death in France by the Kings Officers according to the Custom in that Country they were afterwards delivered to & kept by the American Commissioners untill orders shoud appear from America. I applyed
