January 7, 1779 433 to Congress for an order to have them delivered to my Agent; tho’ at that time ignorant of the State of his Accts. I pledged myself to Congress tho’ no ways bound to do so, that I would pay any balance that might be due, from him to the Public. These Books & Papers I have not yet reed, nor do I know whether the order for them has reached my agent’s Hands but the House at Nantz who under his Direction transacted all the commercial business of Mr. T. Morris have rendered clear Accounts of those Concerns to the Commercial Com mittee. His Accounts have, since I delivered up the Books, been rendered by the House that transacted the Public business under his Superintendance. There is no embarrassment in them that I know of and instead of his being a Debtor the Balance is in favour of that House Lrs. 50380.2.9 or about £ Sterlg which they stopped from Monies of W. M. & Cos in their hands & have empowered me to receive the same from Congress. By this manner of mentioning that, the Amount of Expenditures on the Committee’s Book is considerably above Two Millions of Dollars, some People may be led to immagine that I stand Accountable for that Sum. The Fact is thus. The Books are Kept by double Entry and the Treasury having Credit for all the Monies drawn from it, by the Committee, those who received are charged &: Accountable for what they did receive, many Gentn from New Hampshire to Georgia entered into Contracts on which they reed parts of this Money for which they have accounted or are to Account and in the like manner is my late House or myself to Acct for all Monies by them or me re ceived. Twice I have settled W. M. & Cos Accounts with the Secret Committee and the Entries thereof are in their Books the last was closed in May 1778 a balance being thus due to my House. There are it is true many Articles yet to be Settled. I have made out In best State of them in my power and wou’d gladly make a final Settlement if possible, that cannot now be done because some Accts Sales & Accts Currant are not yet received from Europe and many Articles of Goods which are finally to be Articles of these Accounts have been by inev itable Accidents lodged in the West Indias & must be carried to Account in different ways on the Contingency of their safe arrival within the United States. On the best Computation I can make of all the depending Accounts my late House & myself have with the Conti nent the latter are considerably indebted, and I shall either make a Speedy Settlement or if Circumstances continue to put that out of my power I will lay before Congress a full State & Estimate of these dependancies when I doubt not they will do ample [.. .] Justice to my Character. As my determination is not to enter into any Controversy with the Author that has made this unprovoked & unmerited attack I do not think it worth while to take any other Notice of his remarks referred
