434 January 7, 1779 to in the Publication respecting the Government of Pensylvania, than to agree that whenever I aim at the Government or at handling the Public Money, these remarks shall have the full force he intends on my reputation. Out of respect to that Public with which I wish to stand as fair as my real Conduct & Character deserves so far have I been from protracting the Settlement of Public Accounts that I have on all occasions promoted such Settlements and all measures that tended thereto. In Novr 1777 before I left Congress at York Town I drew up a report from the Commercial Committee for Establishing a Board of Commissioners to manage the Public Commerce 8c settle the Accounts, urging that it was Impossible for Members of Congress if ever so well acquainted with business to do that duty 8c attend in Congress, this I urged frequently 8c the report being opposed by some still lies undetermined on in Congress. After joining Congress in Philada I moved that the Old Members of the Secret Committee as most Competent might be reappointed a Committee to finish the Settlement of their Accounts which was agreed, but those members being much engaged one of them that did attend I hired a good accomptant to Work at those Accounts which he did untill discharged by a Member of the New appointed Commercial Committee who I understand have undertaken to finish the Settlement of these Accounts himself. 1 will only add, that it is in my power to prove by papers in my possession, papers 8c records in the Public offices or by living Wit nesses of unquestionable Character every Circumstance 8c Fact that I have laid before the Public. 8 R M [P.S.] Mr. Robert Morris of Philada. presents his Compts to such Printers as may re-Publish the papers Stiled, Common Sense to the Public on Mr. Deanes affairs—and Request’s they will republish there with this address to the Public and he will chearfully pay their drafts on him for the charge of printing. MS (DLC: Morris Papers). In the hand of Robert Morris. This document was printed, with many minor variations, in the January 9, 1779, issue of the Pennsyl vania Packet. Although Morris did not attend Congress after November 1778, the issues discussed in this document and in his January 11 letter to Henry Laurens on the same subject bear so directly on several significant congressional matters that they have been deemed integral to this edition of delegate correspondence. 1 The “Publication in Mr Dunlaps paper” to which Morris is responding was actually a lengthy letter Thomas Paine addressed “to the Public on Mr. Deane’s Affair” which appeared over his pseudonym Common Sense in the December 31 and January 2, 5, 7, and 9 issues of John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet. It is more readily accessible in the Deane Papers (NYHS Colls.), 21 (1888): 209—39. 2 See these Letters, 4:154-55. 3 Ibid., pp. 656-58. < Ibid., 6:177. “For Morris’ "concerns” with Deane, see also ibid., 7:268-70, and Deane Papers (NYHS Colls.), 20 (1887): 293-97. • Several of the “papers” referred to by Morris have been printed in this edition
