January 8, 1779 435 of delegate letters. For references to a number of these, pertaining to many of the events and issues discussed here by Morris, see volumes 8, 9, and 10 of these Letters. For Henry Laurens’ efforts to correct the facts Morris here “laid before the Public” and Morris’ response to Laurens’ challenge, see Laurens to Morris, January 10, and Morris to Laurens, January 11, 1779. For Thomas Paine’s reply to Morris, which appeared in the January 12 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet, see the Deane Papers (NYHS Colls.), 21 (1888): 266-72. John Fell’s Diary [January 8, 1779] 8th Fryday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Letter read from T. Payne with his Resignation, debates on the subject lasted till past 4 oClock. Dr Weatherspoon went home. 1 Dined with Congress. MS (DLC). 1 John Witherspoon’s departure initiated a very irregular record of attendance at Congress for 1779, which Witherspoon explained in a March 20, 1780, letter to a friend in Scotland. “I have now left Congress, not being able to support the expense of attending it, with the frequent journies to Princeton, and being determined to give particular attention to the revival of the college. Professor Houston, however, our professor of mathematics, is a delegate this year; but he tells me he will cer tainly leave it next November. I mention this circumstance to confirm what I be lieve 1 wrote you formerly, that the members of Congress in general, not only receive no profit from that office, but I believe five out of six of them, if not more, are great losers in their private affairs. This cannot be otherwise; for as none of the delegates are allowed to have any lucrative office whatever, either in their own state or for the United States, though their expenses should be fully borne, their time is taken up, and their own private estates are neglected. At the end of the year 1778, I gave notice to our legislature that they must either not chuse me at all, or leave me at full liberty to attend only when I could conveniently. They chose me however, and I made a good deal of use of that liberty in the year 1779; and this year all the delegates were changed but one, who had only been in one year, and who has not a house to go home to, his estate being in the neighbourhood of New York.” John Witherspoon, The Works of John Witherspoon . . ., 9 vols. (Edinburgh: J. Ogle, 1815), 9:171. Samuel Holten’s Diary [January 8, 1779] Friday. Congress sit ’till 4 o’Clock, & then dined at the city tavern, where they had invited Genl. Washington & a number of other Gentlemen to dine with them. MS (MDaAr).
