452 January 11, 1779 quent repetitions that the Commercial affairs had been sadly conducted. Some days after the conversation abovementioned, the Books of the Secret Committee being a subject of debate in Congress, Mr Laurens (being then President), begged leave to be heard—he ex pressed his astonishment at the long detention of those Books, which were then in the hands of the Honorable Robt Morris Esquire at Manheim & were wanted or said to be wanted by the Commercial Committee, he said that according to his Ideas of the nature of those Books admitting the Entries had been properly made in the Waste Book he would undertake to Post up the whole in nine days or would forfeit two of his fingers, he added that he wished for the adjustment of the Books & their return the more earnestly because of a circum stance which had come to his knowledge 8c then briefly related, what he had heard from Mr Lewis, as abovementioned. Mr Lewis was then standing in a Window at the left of & nearly touching the President’s Chair—Mr. Laurens turning himself to Mr Lewis added pointing with his left hand, & I have now in my Eye the honorable Gentleman from whom I received the information. Mr. Lewis, after the adjournment of Congress, called on Mr. Laurens & said I am very sorry you mention’d that affair in Congress —why so Sir? said Mr Laurens, you know I told you I would mention it at the first proper opportunity. Justice to all parties required that I should do so. Mr Lewis answer’d, because I had intended to mention it to Mr Morris himself the first proper opportunity. The above writing contains substantially the truth of every article & matter therein referred to. I do not presume to aver the several conversations are related verbatim. 2 MS (DNA: PCC, item 19). Written by Henry Laurens and endorsed by Charles Thomson: "The substance of what Mr Laurens related to Congress on Saturday Jan 9. 1779. reduced to writing by him and laid on the table according to Order Jany 11. 1779.” 1 For the circumstances which led Laurens to submit this statement to Congress, see Laurens’ Notes on His Remarks in Congress, January 9, 1779, Francis Lewis ’ response to this statement, see Lewis to Congress, January 14, Robert Morris to Henry Laurens Sir Philada. Jany. 11th, 1779. I am to acknowledge the Honour of Your Communication of this Morning. 1 1 shall say nothing as to the Propriety of Vindicating your self in the News paper, nor pretend to determine whether there is or is not a better Method.
