January 11, 1779 453 Your own feelings must prompt and your own judgement direct you. For myself I am indifferent what attacks may be made on me. I feel a consciousness of innocence which puts me above every Effort to cast a stain on what, I thank God, hath hitherto been an unblem ished reputation. Since you have enclosed that paper to me I am under the necessity of pointing out some of those instances in which from inadvertancy you have mistated Facts lest a silent Acquiescense shou’d be misconstrued into admission. You will observe that I have not chosen the Press as a Tribunal for the liquidation of Accounts but being charged Publickly by Name, I was under a Necessity of defending myself in my own Name pub lickly. "The one other Fact, you allude to—which if proved must affect my reputation” or rather one other allegation, I never heard untill last Saturday Evening when a Gentleman informed me what passed in Congress on the Subject. I have here to add that no circum stances could have given me greater pleasure than to learn that mat ters which had so long been the groundwork of private Conversation against me, were now to be publickly investigated and I will add, Publickly refuted. I am little solicitous who gave you the information, but am to thank you for the Public communication, and confess my astonish ment that the similar declaration at York Town, if such was made, was not followed by an immediate investigation for I agree with you that if it be true the Public ought to be informed, and I go farther, the offender ought to be punished. Why I have not made an enquirv into that charge is already answered for I could not enquire after things I had not heard and never shou’d expect to be charged with. The reason why I did not call on you was that from my informa tion, you had only drawn wrong conclusions from mistated Facts, and thence taken an opportunity to urge insinuations to my disadvan tage, to which a justification of myself before Members of Congress was unnecessary, and their cordial and unabated Friendship to me convinced me I had done what was right on that occasion. You are mistaken if you suppose I said that I hoped to accomplish the Settlement of the Books in question in about two Months. I did not say so. I agree that you or I or any person that understands Book-Keeping might soon post up the Books had the Entries been regularly made in the waste Book. They were not, but minutes of the Committee were regularly Kept, from which and the letters and Accounts in their possession, those Entries can be made. This is the State of that matter &: this I Stated to Congress while you was in the Chair and Moved a resolution that the Members of that Committee should be directed to finish the Settlement of those Accounts, 2 and when the Honourable
