454 January 11, 1779 R. H. Lee Esqr. declined this task then I asserted that I had no more business to settle the Books than (not any body else, but [)] any Mem ber of that Committee. If there was no decision in Congress on my letter of the 8th Feby., Mr. Lewis & Mr. Ellery must justify them selves for signing and Sending me the answer I have published. 3 I cannot suppose they wou’d have done it without proper Authority therefore am inclined to think they can set you right in that respect. You have much misapprehended what passed in Congress in Septr. 1778. I informed Congress that I had Worked at the Books of the Secret Committee untill the Ledger was filled so that there was no room for opening new Accounts and that I had delivered the Books to the Clerk, of the Commercial Committee. So far from saying, “that I had done all I could in the Books’’ (except on acct, of the Ledger) “and that they were in such Confusion I could make nothing of them and therefore wished to be rid of them.” I deny the Fact. I never entertained such Sentiments and declared quite the reverse. I said the Accounts were in such forwardness that they might easily be settled by the Members of the Secret Committee & therefore moved they might be appointed for that service, this Sir will be well Remem bered by many Members of Congress. What Conversation passed between You &: the Young Gentleman who called for the Books I really do not know. I authorized no such conversation on my part as you mentioned. That Young Gentn. when he recovered from Sickness went to the office to work at the Books, not finding ’em there he came to me. I knew nothing of them, but Mr. Brown informed him you had them, as I did not know your intentions, I told him I supposed you wou’d give them to him when you had done with them. With respect to the reasoning of your Piece I shall at present be Silent, if you are convinced of the justness of it you will abide by it, my own opinions govern me, and as you & I differ I will only tell you at this time, that I beleive your strictest search after deficiencies in the Committees or my Brothers Accounts will not answer your expecta tions, but if any such appear I will chearfully abide the Consequences shou’d Congress determine me to be answerable. When I have re ceived that acquittal which I am confident of and placed in that light which I know myself to deserve, it will be time enough to speak of private Friendships. I have a better opinion of you than to believe you would prostitute that term by a Connexion with me whom you seem to consider as a dishonest Man. 4 I am Sir with proper respect, Your most Obedt. & humble Servant, Robt. Morris P.S. I return your piece herewith. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 23).
