January 12, 1779 455 1 See Laurens to Morris, January 10? 1779. 2 See JCC, 12:878-79. ’ Morris’ February 8, 1778, letter has not been found, but see these Letters, 9:118-22, 150-51. 1 For additional information on the subject of Laurens’ charges against Morris for his conduct of Secret Committee business, which became the subject of an extended congressional inquiry pursuant to a resolve of January 19, see Henry Laurens’ Notes, January 9; Laurens’ Statement, January 11; Francis Lewis to Con gress, January 14; Laurens to Congress, January 16, 1779; and JCC, 13:158-60, 163-76. Thomas Burke to James Duane Sir, Philada. January 12 1779 I presume the Object of your letter 1 handed to me in Congress today is to obtain a knowledge of the Resources of the State I repre sent in the Article of Bread. Respecting other States their delegates are more competent, and respecting Virginia in particular a Delegate from her who is one of your Committee 2 is much better able to in form You. The Country I live in produces great abundance of Indian Corn and Wheat. On the Great River the Crop of the former has been very much injured by Freshes; but enough yet remains for their own consumption, and to fatten a great deal of Pork, but far short of the usual quantity. The Western part of the State including a Tract of near two hundred Miles square, and containing near twenty Thou sand fighting men, produces great quantities of excellent Wheat and the last Harvest was very plentiful tho’ not quite so much had been sowed as usual. Except the Militia which has been embodied for the Southern Expedition I know of no particular consumption of this commodity. The quality I suppose may be somewhat injured by the Wevil; but I am persuaded there is much of it still to spare. The Mills have been much damaged by Freshes and Teames are become very scarce: These circumstances may make the transportation and manufacturing difficult, but I believe the desire of gain will surmount all. The stock in that Country are always fed on Indian Corn of which there have been very plentiful Crops the last Year. The Person of the Commissary department has spread among the People, they have been taught to believe that bread is very scarce every where else; and that the Demand for it will be much greater than ever. The Country I am now speaking of is remote from Navi gation ; but I believe a considerable quantity of Flour might be con tracted for at Cross-creek, or Wilmington on Cape-Fear River, which has a good Navigation. I am sir, Your Obedient Servant, Thos. Burke
