January 12, 1779 457 Cury. without any Inconvenience; which in a future day must be redeemed with Gold 8c Silver or its equivalent. Am sensible how averse our people are to emitting money, but when it is considered that the quantity of circulating medium is not increased by this Emission, and only one Species of Money exchanged for another, am led to beleive under this Consideration they will consent to emit such a Sum as they may judge necessary to exchange for Conti. Cury. This being a matter of real Moment to us, wish the Assembly to prosecute some Scheme that will avert the Danger. I must not omit informing you that Col. Clarke has not been promoted agreeable to Instructions given the Delegates by the As sembly. This matter expect will occasion some warmth among Colo. Clarkes Connections (whom I much esteem) and perhaps the As sembly may construe it, into a Violation of the Trust reposed in their Delegates—therefore think it necessary to state the matter as it really was. A few Days past Cols. Sumner & Clarke were nominated to be ballotted for Brigd. for our State, yesterday their Election came on, when Mr Burke 8c myself impressed with a Sense of the Duty we owe to the common Cause, and justly alarmed with the intended Resigna tions of many of our Officers, concluded that we should not be acting the part of candid 8c honest Men, not to remind Congress of our Instructions relative to this matter, and at the same time inform them of the Rank of our Line, and leave it with them to determine the Merits of the several Officers was not the question, but Seniority de termined Congress in favor of Col. Hogan; on our front we implicitly obeyed our Instructions, by nominating and voting for Col. Clarke, this was all we had it in our power to effect, and we rest assured from this State of the matter, we shall stand acquitted by our Country, as we are sensible they would wish us to retain that degree of Candor and Integrity, which ever distinguishes the worthy Character. I have the Honor to be with great Esteem, yr. Excellency’s most Obdt. Sert. Whitmell Hill RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 12th Jan 1779 Your favor of the 7th ulto came to hand only a few days ago. You ask me how I like the Election—the persons elected I can have no objection to, nor can I object to the manner of conducting the busi ness, not being acquainted with one circumstance respecting the matter. 1 I therefore can only say if the business was conducted upon true republican principles I am Satisfied. It gives me pleasure to hear
