January 14, 1779 463 peace &: safety in that Quarter it woud be my firm wish: God who rules over all only knows whether this Happiness is so near. In the present Situation of our Affairs I shoud not dare to hazard all that is dear to me in a Country so exposed at least to alarms and apprehensions. I do not doubt but we shall find some place where we can live in Com fort and affluence when I am done with Congress. Till then I cannot call myself free or independent. Upon this we shall have Leisure to consult when the distresses of our Country are at an End & we per mitted to act without Restraint. At present our best digested Schemes may be disappointed by the Fortune of War. We ought to be thankful that we have less Reason than most of our Acquaintance to be uneasy. Our Lands will rise in Value And (your} our kind Father can & will assist Us: Besides which I have a pro fession which with Gods blessing will without any other Aid support us. We have only then to bear the present moment with fortitude, and to do our Duty. I am oblig’d to the Doctor for his advice: I know it is sated: but 1 don’t love flannel next to my Skin. If I find Occasion however I shall try it—after a pound or two of Bark, I can put up with worse than Flannel. You give me a good hint about my servant. I knew little of him Sc woud freely give £100 to be assurd of His Honesty & yet he can do no one thing well but Shave. That however covers with me a multitude of Defects. You will not have the pleasure of seeing our Brother & Sister till the Spring. I am sorry for it as I am very sure you will like her ex ceedingly & that she will study to deserve it: for she is of a benevolent Temper, polite in her manners, & much prepossesd from your brother’s partiality, in your favour. Our Daughter also [. . .] great Satisfaction & Improvement. Present my dutiful Regards to our parents & affectionate Complemts to every branch of the Family. Kiss & bless for me our dear Children: &: believe me ever—my dearest Polly, Your obedt & faithful Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers). John Fell’s Diary [January 14, 1779] 14th Thursday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Debates relating to Monsr Girrards Letter. 1 Letters from Genl Schuyler, relat ing to Indians and restoration to be made to sundry Persons for damage Sustain’d by their forridge 8cc. Letters from Govr Clinton and
