January 15, 1779 467 John Jay to George Clinton Sir Philadelphia 15th Jany 1779. Yesterday your Letter To His Excellency General Washington covering several Papers relative to the burning a Barn at Little- Britain by the Convention-Troops was communicated to Congress by a Letter from him. These papers were immediately referred to a Committee, & your Excellency may rely on my taking the earliest opportunity of transmitting to you the final Resolutions of Congress on the Subject. 1 I have the Honor to be, with great Respect & Esteem, your Excel- lencys most Obedient & most Humble Servant. J. Jay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 According to the journals, a January 1 letter from Washington to Congress enclosing a December 18 letter to him from Clinton was read and referred to com mittee on January 14. See JCC, 13:63; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:461, 473. Clinton’s letter, which is in Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:401-2, was written in support of the appeal of “Mr. James McDowell of Little Britain, in this State,” for compensation for the burning of his barn by troops of the Convention Army during their recent march to Virginia. Apparently no action was taken on McDowell’s plea, however, for in 1786 he again submitted a memorial to Congress for the loss of his barn, but was advised that “his application ought to be made to the State of which he is a citizen.” JCC, 30:116-17. John Jay to Jean Theveneau de Francy Sir, Philadelphia 15 Jany. 1779 It gives me pleasure to transmit to You a Copy of an Act of Con gress of this day, from which You will perceive the determination of Congress to fulfil on their part the Agreement concluded with You on Behalf of Monsieur De Beaumarchais on the 7th April last. 1 For this purpose they have directed a large Remittance in Tobacco to be provided, and that the purchase of it may be made with greater dis patch, and with less Expence they think it expedient that the whole Transaction be kept a profound Secret. I am Sir, Your most Obed 8e very Hble Servt. J. Jay. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). ’Congress was responding belatedly to Francy’s letters of November 11 and 28, and December 19, 1778, appealing for long-promised remittances in payment for goods shipped to America in 1776-77 by his employer, Caron de Beaumarchais, under the cloak of the firm Roderique Hortalez & Co. This January 15 resolve ordering shipment of 3,000 hogsheads of tobacco for this purpose was adopted in response to Francy’s November 28 recommendation of this course, which had been referred to a committee consisting of Meriwether Smith, William Henry Drayton, and William Ellery. By this measure, Congress hoped to relieve its embarrassment
