January 16, 1779 475 confront them by the Charter Party, the Bills of Loading, the special indorsed Contract nor the instrument of valuation, but I honestly confess that those jealousies which Mr. Lewis’s information had raised in my mind at York Town are not removed. I have caused diligent search to be made in the Commercial Com mittee’s Office for copy of the Orders to John Brown or Brown and Cornthwaite for chartering and loading the Farmer, and for their letters in answer—for orders to Mr. Buchanan and his answer—for Letters to Thomas Morris 8c to Pliarne, Penet and Company respect ing the consignation and the “advice” of “the proper Account and risque” referred to in the Bills of loading. For the necessary Entries on the Committees Books of the Orders for Chartering, Loading and Insuring the Vessel which ought to have appeared there in manner and stile clear and explicit. The Clerk of the Office informs me that he has spent many hours seeking for these lights and can discover none of them nor any Papers concerning the Farmer excepting those before mentioned which were tyed up in one parcel and appeared to be all the documents relative to that Ship—but that he had not fully examined every Paper in the Office, it is possible therefore they may hereafter be found. Neither can I discover the letter which Mr. Lewis says Mr. Morris sent to Congress informing them of “a rumor spread in Philadelphia that the Ship was taken by the Enemy, but he hoped it was not true, if it was, he had fifty Hogsheads of Tobacco on board on his own Account.” The first extract produced by Mr. Lewis is copy of an entry on the Books that an Order was drawn by the Commercial Committee 16th April 1777 on the Treasury for payment of 14666 % Dollars to the owners of the Ship Farmer for the valuation of that Ship, Chartered and insured by the Committee on public Account, said ship being taken in Chesapeake Bay on the twenty first day of January last by two of the Enemy’s ships of War as appears by the Captains Protest.” The Protest sets forth that the Ship had been captured, but not of her being chartered and insured by the Committee on Public Account; nor does any one of the antecedent documents referred to above, tend to induce a belief that she was. The Committee must therefore have derived their knowledge that the Ship was “chartered and insured on Public Account” from some other sources of informa tion, for I will not suppose they would have drawn the Order for 14666 2^ Dollars, or have suffered the recited entry to be made in their Books but under the influence of some kind of proofs for their guide in the disposal of Public Money—two of the Committee are now present, these Gentlemen may possibly give the House such informa tion on this head, as will remove every doubt and render further investigation unnecessary. 3
