476 January 16, 1779 Sir, I have not been thus minute from any wish or desire to crimi nate Mr. Robert Morris; Congress will remember I declared that my views in mentioning this subject at York Town were to do justice to that Gentleman as well as to the Public—but to return to Mr. Lewis’ Paper. If Mr. Lewis had been satisfied on the 16th of April 1777, four Months before I had the honor of his acquaintance that the Ship Farmer had been bona fide, chartered, insured, and loaded on Public Account, I demand, with what view, or for what good purpose did he. eight or ten Months after that date relate to me that Captain Dashiel had said his Ship “was chartered by Messrs. Willing and Morris’ Clerk, and that the Bills of Loading which the said Captain had signed were filled up shipp’d by Willing and Morris and that the Committee had therefore concluded that the Cargo was not on Public Account.” I quote Mr. Lewis’ words of the 14th Instant delivered on Paper, not those which he really spoke to me at York Town. Did Mr. Lewis give this strange and inconclusive relation in order to convince me that our Commercial transactions, were not, “in a confused state”? Does it seem to have been calculated for hushing my complaints, implied in the hints which he says I gave of “some Vessels employed in the Public service carrying Goods on the private Account of some Members of the Committee”? Or did it rather, as I have most truly averred serve to “heighten my jealousies by his frequent repetitions that our Commercial Affairs had been sadly conducted”? That those Affairs had been sadly conducted requires no other proof than half an hours review of the Committee’s Books. Why did Mr. Lewis after I had briefly mentioned in Congress the information which he had given me of the Tobacco Ship and had appealed personally to him call on me and say, “I am very sorry you mentioned that affair in Congress, because I intended to mention it to Mr. Morris myself”? And I now appeal to every candid mind, does not Mr. Lewis’s present and very inconclusive narrative of what he calls a tete a t^te conversation tend to excite suspicions of some hidden or unfair pro ceedings in the case of the ship Farmer? The "conclusions of the Committee that the Cargo was not on Public Account” one would naturally suppose were well grounded before they put the Public to the expence of equipping an extra Ship merely for the purpose of carrying dispatches. The owner of the Ship Farmer lived at Baltimore, a conference with him would in stantly have removed all the difficulties which Captain Dashiel had raised.
