January 16, 1779 477 The Ship Farmer was chartered on the third of October 1776, sailed on the 10th of January 1777 and captured on the 21st of that Month. According to Mr. Lewis’ state, the first insinuation that the bulk of the cargo was Public property appeared in Mr. Morris’ Letter written subsequently to the capture informing Congress that he had fifty Hogsheads of Tobacco on board. If the charter, the loading and the Insurance had been actually on Public Account, how came Mr. Lewis to remain in ignorance of these interresting facts at least four Months, and for aught we know, to this hour? I will beg Mr. Lewis’ indulgence to ask him another question—If the Vessel was chartered and insured on Account of the Public, by whose permission and under what stipulations did Mr. Morris ship fifty Hogsheads of Tobacco on his private Account? But, Sir,—After all these appearances I do not charge Mr. Morris with fraud, I never did charge him with fraud, nor did I ever intend to do so from bare appearances, I honestly appealed to the Gentle man who had made a display of those appearances. It will rest with Mr. Morris, unless the Commercial Committee can now give us satisfaction, by clear, explicit, unambiguous proofs to convince this House that his conduct was honest & justifiable. The best friend Mr. Morris has in the World will not more sin cerely rejoice than I shall, at the sight of such evidence. If Mr. Morris’ character has been unjustly drawn into suspicion, I am not the Man, who—from malice, wantonness, or stupid inattention to business placed, or suffered it to remain in an unfavorable light. Had I harboured a malignant disposition for blasting that Gentle mans reputation I should long ago have searched for the Papers which I have, in the present instance been compelled to exhibit. Every sensible Man will acknowledge they contain ample funds for slanderous whisper, but by the grace of God I have acted a more gen erous part; I briefly related to Congress what I had learned from Mr. Lewis, and to this Gentleman I appealed as my informant, thence forward contenting myself with the reflection that I had done my duty. I shall conclude with saying that I have reason to believe I am not the only Gentleman to whom Mr. Lewis has, at some time or other expressed his dissatisfaction with the affair of the Ship Farmer, a mere dissatisfaction expressed by him has a tendency to excite jealousies in the minds of Men ignorant of the facts, but not of the universal opinion “that our Commercial affairs had been sadly con ducted.” 4 Henry Laurens
