January 17, 1779 479 day, in answer to the application of the Delegates of this State, agreeable to your Excellency’s Instructions of the 14th Inst., 1 & am Y’r Excellency’s, Most ob’t & very huml serv’t. Daniel Roberdeau. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:159. 1 Roberdeau enclosed a resolve of Congress advancing Pennsylvania $160,000 in response to the state’s request "for an advance of Sixty Thousand Pounds, which is become necessary, not only from the great expenditures of the State for Congress, but much the more so by the resolve of Congress of the 2d instant, for calling in two emissions of their Bills of Credit.” See JCC, 13:74; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:664, 666-67, 669. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 17th Jany 1779 I have received Your Favor of 14th Ulto which acknowledges the receipt of Mine of the 20th Nov which you say is “replete with cen sure,” as the small portion of time I have to devote to private Friend ship will not admit of my taking copies of such Letters, nor can I recollect at this distance of time the particular mode of expression I then used, I must suppose your Quotation is right; admiting that to be the case. Sc the expressions exceptionable; what is to be done? to retract, (according to the modern opinion) is dishonorable; and we are at too great a distance to settle the dispute in a certain concise way, that is very fashionable in this part of the world. I therefore will consent on my part to drop it, provided you will be more punctual in Your correspondence in future. Perhaps such small concessions as these may produce a Treaty tending to perpetuate a Friendship that I highly value and which you seem to have no objection to. I wish the promotion of Simpson as sincerely as you do, but the reasons you give, viz the appointmt. of Landais & Hardin operate against it for the present. 1 I hope he will content himself with the Command he has for the present Cruise on which I doubt not, his conduct will justify me in urging his promotion. Inclosed is an entry taken from the Books of the Commercial Committee, which is the last article in the Ledger & the accot. is there Ballanced. I have been endeavoring ever since I have been here to get a supply of Flour for you &: am now as far off as ever. In short I know not what can be done. The last Crops were exceedingly short, so short that the Com- misary tells me he shall be put to difficulty to supply the Army. However I do not quite despair. I shall be able in two or three weeks to give you full information on this subject. It will answer no purpose to send vessels at present, as no private vessels will be suf-
