498 January 21, 1779 vicious fashion of the day, but with shame I confess it to be alto gether anti-republican and inconsistent with the circumstances of the distressed States of America. Whatever sum the Treasury shall be pleased to determine upon, will be perfectly satisfactory to me; had I known I had been living at public expence my conduct should have been governed by different rules & principles. Under cover with this you will receive an Account of my advances to a Secretary, for I employed but one at a time, to Express Mes sengers &c which you will be pleased to lay before the Honorable Board, and if it shall be found free from error, a Warrent on the Treasury for the Balance 3394 15/90 Dollars, will be very acceptable. 2 I have the honor to be, With great regard, Sir, Your obedient &: most humble Servant. H. Laurens RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 23). In the hand of Moses Young and signed by Laurens. Addressed: “John Gibson Esquire, Auditor General, Philadelphia.” En dorsed by Gibson: “Honble Henry Laurens Esq 21 January 1779”; and by an unidentified hand: "passed Novr. 9 1779.” ’ Laurens’ December 19 letter, which was read by Congress on December 22 and referred to the Board of Treasury, has not been found. See JCC, 12:1240. 2 Laurens’ “Account of my advances” has not been found. On November 12, 1779, Congress agreed to pay Laurens $35,000 “in full of his household expences for thir teen months, being the time of his acting as President of Congress,” which had been reduced at his request from the sum of $52,284 originally recommended on November 6. See JCC, 15:1243-44, 1259-60. Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston Dear Livingston Phila. 21st Jany. 1779. Were it not that I sometimes hear there is somewhere in Existence such a Person as the Chancellor of NYork I should really begin to think you had launched upon the Stygian Ferry and wearied with the Cabals of a Republic made choise of the absolute Government of the galant tho gloomy Pluto. Is it that you are so busied in heavenly Contemplation as to need a Flapper, or so buried in Indolence as to require a Blister? Come tell me your Disease. Is it because you love Chess so much that you love your Friends so little? Does the Bland ishment of Family Enjoyments of domestick Bliss chain your aspiring Soul to your Chimney Corner? Have you lost the Paternal Regards of your great Family the People because some of the Boys are forward, arch and mischeivous? Have you because encountered by Intrigue and Cabal lost a Sense of your own Dignity so as to sink under Evils which Spirit and Activity would surmount? Come I will make no more im pertinent Enquiries. You know your own weak Side. Put Armour on it. Sit down half an Hour and suppose yourself unconnected with all the
