512 January 24, 1779 Rank to the assistant Inspector General in the opinion of some of the members of Congress. That we may know your Excellency’s Opinion on these points & particularly whether there is a necessity for the Rank recommended are the principal motives for the Reference. 2 The enclosd Dispatches from the Commisy. Prisoners require im mediate Attention. 3 If it will be convenient I shall be glad to spend a few minutes with you at any Time you shall appoint after four oClock. I have the Honour to be—with the utmost Respect, Sir, your Ex cellency’s most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by James Duane. Endorsed: "Philade—from Jas Duane Esq. Chairm. Comm. Conference.” 1 Although undated, this letter was probably written by Duane on January 24, the day after Congress referred to the committee a Board of War report on the Inspector General’s Department and a letter from Commissary of Prisoners John Beatty, both subjects discussed in this letter. 2 Congress agreed to a detailed plan for the Department of Inspector General on February 18 that specifically subordinated the inspector general to the commander in chief and the subinspectors to unit commanders. See JCC, 13:111-12, 196-200. ’ See JCC, 13:104. William Ellery to John Sullivan Dear Sir, Philadelphia Jany. 24th 1779 I received yours of the 15th of December, and have since found that the sentence of the court martial on Crossing & his associates answer’d my expectation. 1 The Court could not have done otherwise consistent with Law and justice; but it seems there is danger of re taliation in case the sentence should be executed. I should be very sorry if the execution of that infamous traitor, should occasion the death of any especially of a worthy whig. Genl. Prescott I find by your last letter to Congress on this subject is very solicitous to pre serve the lives of Crossing & Phillips. His Aid, if I remember right, told you that they both had Commissions. If this should be the case: If they had commissions from the KJing] of Britain previous to their kidnapping Almy &c. it would make a material alteration in their Cases; but I doubt this very much. If they had commissions why were they not produced at their trial: certainly there was time enough for that purpose, between the capture and trial; and why did not the Aid bring them to Providence? If Genl. Prescot will declare bona fide that they had those Commissions previous to their kidnapping expe dition, and exhibit them to you, I should give some Credit to such declaration & exhibit; but I must confess I am not satisfied with the Story of his Aid. The proceedings of the Court-martial are com mitted, and I am one of the Committee. I should chuse to have fuller
