January 25, 1779 513 light, than I have at present, before I can give Judgment: Therefore could wish, if you should receive any further information, that you would communicate it to Congress. Before this reaches you, you will doubtless have heard that the enemy consisting of about 2500 have taken possession of Georgia. Our accounts respecting this matter are confused. A few days since I saw a late Charlestown paper which advises that 6 sail of Count De Estaings Squadron were spoke with off Deseada, and that they had taken & sent into Martinico 7 transports with Troops from N. York bound to the W. Indias. That 2 transports with 300 Green-Coats on board had, under Convoy of the Camilla & Galatea, arrived at Ber mudas, 8c that as many more were to follow them. (I have since heard that they were invalids and were sent to garrison that place.) The same paper mentions that a Vessel (which left Calais the 17th of November) had arrived at Charlestown and brot account that there had been no engagement between the French 8c British fleets and that Ld. Sandwich was put into the Tower. I saw lately at Stephen Collins where I lodge a pretty young woman, who told me that her Husband Francis Brindley, 2 who was a first Lieutenant in Abraham Livingston’s Company, was dangerously wounded in the battle of Portsmouth, that She had heard nothing from him since she received that information, and desired that I would be so kind as to write to you on this Subject. Now, Sir, as I strongly suspect that you are, at least, as fond of obliging pretty women as I am, let me request you, Sir, in her behalf to make inquiry after this same Francis Brindley and let me know whether he is dead or living. I shall be also much obliged to you if you would inform me what Number of Vessels of War the enemy distroyed in our State during your expedition agst Rhode Island; the present State of your and the enemy’s Army &c. For doing this you will much oblige, Yr most humble Servant, William Ellery RC (DLC: Force Collection). 1 For further information on the court-martial of "Crossing & his associates,” see Henry Laurens to John Sullivan, January 5; and William Ellery to Sullivan, March 30,1779. 2 Francis Brindley, who had been appointed a first lieutenant in James Living ston’s First Canadian Regiment, December 18, 1776, survived to retire from the army in 1781. Heitman, Historical Register, p. 99. Committee of Conference to John Jay 25th January 1779. It appears that a detachment of the Enemy’s Troops by no means inconsiderable have possessed themselves of Savannah the Capital of
