514 January 25, 1779 Georgia. Their numbers cannot be ascertained, but it is between 2500 and 5000. Their Naval force is by no means considerable, consisting of a 50 and 40 gun Ship, two sloops of war and some gallies. By this Stroke they are in capacity more effectually to defend their possessions in East Florida, to annoy the southern parts of South Carolina, per haps in a favorable moment to attack Charlestown. They will draw from Georgia immense Supplies of provisions for their troops in America and the Islands. Their cruizers will shut up the navigation of South Carolina, and not only possess themselves of the property at sea intended for that State, but what is of greater importance totally prevent the sending of rice from thence for the use of our Allies in the Islands. It is a melancholy truth that little de pendence can be prudently placed on the wheat and flour of the more Northern States until the next harvest. But however great the ad vantages above Stated they derive one of far more value considered on a general Scale. The riches of Mexico and Peru are in a manner locked up, unless the southern extremities of America, and the Bahama Islands can be wrested from their possession, and it is highly probable that the expedition takes its rise from the apprehension of a war with Spain. While we lament the inconveniences which will be felt from the loss of Georgia, we cannot but derive pleasure from a consideration how much they have exposed themselves—should the Situation of affairs in the Islands permit such detachment from the combined fleets of France and Spain, or either of them as would prevent their escape by sea, while a body of good French or Spanish thrown in some favorable Situation between Savannah and Augustin would prevent their retreat that Way until the force now assembling in Virginia and the Carolinas could be collected to operate against them with effect. On a view of these circumstances it appears ex tremely probable that the consequences of the measure would be not only the destruction of that detachment of the Enemy’s force, but the possession of all those ports which secure the navigation of Mexico and gulph of Florida, the essential advantages of which during the future operations of the war are too evident to need illustration. The above paper 1 agreed to in Committee of Conference with the Commander in Chief and directed to be delivered to the President of Congress, as the substance of intelligence respecting the invasion of Georgia. Jas. Duane for the Committee Tr (Archives nationales: Marine B‘ 168). 1 This is clearly a copy of the “state of the Intelligence” concerning the British capture of Georgia that was prepared by the Committee of Conference and General Washington at the request of President Jay following Congress’ January 23 decision to seek French aid in recapturing Georgia. James Duane, who signed this intelli gence report as chairman of the committee, had also drafted the resolution of Con-
