528 January 29, 1779 Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Bingham Sir Philada. Janry 29th 1779 Herewith will be delivered to you a Packet for the honble. Doctr. Franklin with 2 Vols. of the Journals of Congress and a large course of News papers, which you are requested to forward by the first good opportunity. You may examine these Prints if you incline, though I shall put another set for you on board a Vessel now ready to leave the Delaware. 1 The circumstances under which Capt. Cunningham sails in the Revenge are not known here exactly though Mr. Deane and Mr. Carmichael are on the spot. The intentions of the former as to the Sale of her were not confirmed by his Colleagues in France; but yet I do not see how the Request of your Letter of Aug. 16th in regard to her prizes can be taken up; as Mr. Cunningham into whose hands the Product is committed has never informed Congress that he pos sesses any of their Property. I wish you would gain and transmit the true state of facts relative to the outfit and present Claimants of that Vessel. 2 A large Committee of Congress is now considering the whole state of their foreign affairs. I wish the Result may include a notice of your merits in an Arrangement more suitable to your wishes than what a Continuance in your present station seems to appear. I am with much Regard, Your Friend & humble Servt. James Lovell for the Committee for for. affairs RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written and signed by James Lovell. 1 Lovell sent these newspapers for Bingham under cover of the following brief note the next day: “I now send you the News papers which I promised yesterday to forward by a second Vessel, and continue your Friend & humble Servant.” PCC, item 79, fols. 248-49. 2 "The true state of facts relative to” the Revenge was difficult to ascertain be cause of the tactics that had been used to disguise her ownership in France to cir cumvent British diplomatic efforts to have the privateer banned from French and Spanish ports. Although Capt. Gustavus Conyngham had enjoyed remarkable suc cess against British shipping in early 1778, he had sailed the Revenge to the West Indies in September when Spain had finally succumbed to British pressures and banned the cutter from Spanish ports. And before Bingham could respond to this query from the committee, Conyngham decided to sail for Philadelphia, where the Revenge arrived on February 21, 1779. Three weeks later Congress simply ordered the Marine Committee to sell the vessel at public auction, apparently to expedite settlement of a number of conflicting claims that had been lodged against her. The result was to sweep under the carpet a potentially explosive issue that partisans of Silas Deane wished to lay to rest, for one of the charges lodged against him was the manner in which he had used public resources for private gain, and the con fused status of the Revenge was a matter that had aroused the suspicions of Arthur
