530 January 29, 1779 inclose. 1 It will explain to you all we know here in regard to your Secretary Ford. I am affectionately your Friend, James Lovell for the Comtee. of for. Affairs RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). Written and signed by James Lovell. This letter is appended to the “Triplicate” of the Committee for Foreign Affairs’ January 26 letter to Arthur Lee. 1 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee, January 26, 1779, note 1. Committee of Congress Proposed Letter to Conrad Alexandre Gerard Sir [January 29? 1779] 1 The candor and frankness which have distinguished all your nego- ciations with these States, impose particular obligations on Congress to observe on all occasions the like conduct towards you. They consider the Arms of the Allies as united in one common Cause for the great purpose of effectually maintaining the Liberty, Sovereignty and Independence absolute and unlimited of these States, and for mutual aid during the course of the War and they admire the wise provision, made by the Treaty for preserving the harmony subsisting between them by excluding all after claims of compensation on one Side or on the other, whatever may be the event of the War. How far the fourth Article of the Treaty 2 directs a stipulation for compensation to precede a particular Enterprize proposed by one Party, and to which the aid of the other is requested, has been taken by Congress into consideration. They are of opinion that the compensation mentioned in that Article cannot relate to Enterprizes essential to the design of the Alliance and which may be proposed and undertaken by either Party to secure, not extend, their respective Territories, or to dimin ish the power of the Enemy by defeating their Fleets and Armies, not conquering their Countries or Cities. The Expedition in question aims at nothing more than the expul sion of the Enemy from a state which cannot be Sovereign and Inde pendent while they remain Masters of its Capital, and by destroying part of their force, advance the declared end of the War, which is to compel the Enemy to yield the great objects of the Alliance. This Enterprise therefore must be considered in the same light with all other joint and ordinary exertions of force against the Com-
