540 January 30, 1779 hardly believe at first, that I had not noticed your letter of the Novr. the 9th, as I fully recollect it was my intention. It gave me concern when I heard of the fall you met with soon after you left us, but hope you are fully restored. The disappointments that you have met with by not being fur nished with troops & other necessaries for an expedition against E. Florida, as you expected must be very mortifying, however it was no more than I expected, but I perceive you are likely to have business enough nearer home; Your last letters to Congress are now under consideration 1 & I expect some resolutions will soon be come into &: forwarded with all possible dispatch; The arms you mention as being in the stores at S. Carolina, Mr. Drayton one of the delegates from that state, thinks they do not belong to the continent. The great personal respect I have for you, always operated in my mind against your going to the Southward, but hope you’l be sup ported in the important affairs you are ingaged in. We are expecting news from your quarter, & have nothing here worthy your attention, to be depended on; It is said the Count De Estaing has lost a number of men in attempting to storm a fort in the west Indies. An unhappy dispute has arose between some of our agents on the other side of the water, but I think it most prudent to make but one remark at present upon their conduct (viz.) I think they were very imprudent to get into such a dispute at this time. No doubt you have seen a number of pieces in the public prints respecting the above affair, under the Signature of Common Sense, Plain Truth, &c, &c, but I hope the good people will not form a Judgment upon the mat ter, before they can be better informd. Your letters to Mrs. Lincoln was duly noticed, & it will always give me pleasure to render you any services this way. I am Sir, with great respect &: Sincerity, your most obedient & most humble servt. S. Holten RC (CSmH: HM 39005). 1 General Lincoln’s December 26, 1778, letter had been referred to a special committee on January 25; his January 6, 1779, letter had been referred to the Board of War on January 28. JCC, 13:113, 123. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 30th Jany. 1779 On the 23d Inst, Congress passed two Acts, One relating to the Commissary of Prisoners, the other to the Director General; Copies of both are herewith enclosed. 1
