542 January 31, 1779 A Letter from Coll. Gibson of one of the State Regiments of Vir ginia, 1 setting forth that he had receiv’d no Orders for re-inlisting the said Regiment, and that the Time for which the Men were en listed is daily expiring; that very few of the Men were enlisted to serve during the War and that they are willing to enlist on the same Terms as the Troops from the State of Virginia, in Continental Service, was read; and the said Letter being referr’d to this Com mittee, with Powers to take such Order thereon as they shall Judge proper; It is Unanimously agreed that the Commander in Chief shall give Orders for re-inlisting the men belonging to the said Regi ment for the War, allowing them the Continental Bounty: & that if the State of Virginia shall incline to take the Regiment when so reinlisted, into its own immediate Service, it shall be at Liberty to do so; & in that Case, the Bounty money to be advanced out of the Continental Treasury, together with the Expence of recruiting, shall be returned. It is further agreed, that if Coll. Smith & his Regiment, 2 raised for the Service of the State of Virginia, shall make a similar Application to the Commander in Chief of the Army of these United States, the Same measures in all Respects be pursued with Regard to that Regiment. That a Copy of this Resolution be deliver’d to the Commander in Chief; and the Original lodged with the Board of War. Done in Committee of Conference with the Commander in Chief & signed by their Order. James Duane-Chair MS (ViHi: Continental Congress Collection). In the hand of Peter Scull. Endorsed by Scull: “War-Office 3rd Aug. 1779. These are to certify that the within writing is copied verbatim from the report of the committee of conference filed in this office." The complete report of the committee of conference has not been found. 1 Col. George Gibson of the First Virginia state regiment had written to General Washington on January 23, 1779, complaining of Virginia’s failure to take steps to reenlist the troops of the "Two State Regiments anex’d to the Continental Army.” Gibson’s letter, which is in PCC, item 78, 10:133, was read in Congress and referred to this committee on January 29. See JCC, 13:124, and E. M. Sanchez-Saavedra, A Guide to Virginia Military Organizations in the American Revolution (Richmond: Virginia State Library, 1978), pp. 110, 112-13. 2 Col. Gregory Smith had commanded both the Second and Third Virginia state regiments. Ibid., pp. 112-13. John Jay to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia 31st Jany. 1779 I have the Pleasure of transmitting to You a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th Inst; directing the Quarter-Master & Commissary
