546 January 31, 1779 to be collected in Maryland, and the States before mentioned. You are not to expect any Naval assistance, the Idea of granting such, from our feeble funds was generally exploded, if I remember right when the question was put on that occasion there were no voices, ay, but Mr. Drayton’s and my own; 4 and truly Sir, you will not be much surprized at this, when you are fully informed of the circumstances of our Marine. I shall be providing such Shot as Your Excellency has described, and return your Vessel if she arrives with the utmost dispatch, but, in order to save time, and for guarding against accidents which may happen to a single Vessel, I mean to recommend, indeed have recom mended to send a proper Vessel with Military Stores from hence, but sorry I am to say, a question arises, have we any to spare? This shall be fully investigated tomorrow. 5 I know we have no Lead. We have just now received very unpleasant intelligence from the West Indies, Mr. Bingham ’tis said writes from Martinico that Gen eral Grant had possessed himself of the Island of St. Lucia. Count d’Estaing having block’d up four British Ships of the Line, which were lying in the Bason or Harbor, landed a body of Troops and attempted to force one of the Enemys works, these were severely repulsed, and the Count after having sustained a loss of upwards of fifteen hundred Men, had desisted from the Enterprise, and retired. He had been reinforced by four Ships of the Line from France, and two captured English Frigates. I have not time to enquire into par ticulars, but as the Account is against us, there is no ground for suspecting exaggeration. I perused a Letter yesterday from Sir Henry Clinton to General Washington expressed in such polite terms, and intimating such an Act on the part of Sir Harry, as convinces me he wishes to be friends with us again 6 —the wretched Refugees and Rebels in New York Garrison and its environs are in the utmost distress from apprehen sions of being sent across the Atlantic, or to New Providence, Georgia or Florida. They are plainly told, they must support themselves by Arms, in other words that while they remain, they must draw their subsistence from the Kings Stores as Soldiers, or from plunder in a predatory War against the Rebels. General Maxwell intimates that they were collecting in Companies, seemingly intended for the latter purpose, though with tears in their Eyes. Spain by our last intelli gence, continued a bustle, and Holland grumbling. The Newspapers which will accompany this, will give Your Excellency other scraps of information. I will not further trouble you at present Sir, but to repeat, that I remain, With the highest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys Most Obedient And Most Humble Servant, H.L.
